205 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE, animal, and watch him carefully. For a while you will see that he evidently “means business;” steadily and briskly he keeps to work, giving no attention to anything but his food. At last he raises himself, and either walks away, or, if he again stoops, is evidently picking over or playing with his food. That is the signal to stop, and after a few days, if he is full grown, you will know what he requires, and need take no further notice. He should, in fact, have quite enough to satisfy his hunger, but not more. Pointers or other sporting dogs need very different diet when in work. They should have meat every day, and if worked hard it ought to be raw, while the animal should have as much as it will eat at a single meal. Pointers are often under-fed. They ought to be put on full working diet at least a fortnight before commencement, in order to get up their strength, for it is a great mistake to suppose that one feed of meat will at once create strength for the work of the day. When the season is over, their meat should either be boiled, or, if kept about the house, a partially vegetable diet should gradually be substituted. Horse flesh, unless known to be of good quality and fresh, should never be given, as it is apt to cause diseases of the skin. Pot liquor also should never be given to dogs; it often purges them, and, if salt, sometimes makes the hair come off. Paunch is the best animal food for a house dog, and may be given boiled like tripe. Liver must be used with discretion, as it is a laxative, hence we recommend it to be followed by rice with the liquor, rice having a contrary effect. Sporting dogs do best with the coarse parts of beef, or liver; but for all dogs, warm, choice meat is most in- jurious: it causes rank odours, foul teeth, and various digestive diseases. It should always be given perfectly cold. The food is best thrown on the bare earth, as for feeding poultry. Dogs thus fed always preserve their teeth whiter and cleaner than those to whom it is given on plates or dishes. Throw the dog’s allowance, therefore, on the ground ; it will be better for him, and he will enjoy it more. Every possible consideration confirms our demand, that dogs of all kinds, from the lady’s pet to the mastiff, should be fed out of doors. Keep them from the kitchen for the same reason as you do from the dining-room. A word is necessary with regard to bones. A dog should not have more than at most one a day, and care should be taken that there be scarcely any meat upon it. Dogs naturally prefer some bones and parts of bones to others. Rib and marrow bones are dangerous, although the latter may be safely given if split open before thrown down, as dogs will seldom gnaw them when their marrow is gone. Fish and fowl bones are often dangerous, and it is not worth while to chance losing a valuable dog by bone-splinters causing inflammation of the bowels, or sticking in the throat. So much for your dog’s diet; if you would have him thrive, you must also see that he has exercise. He was made to be a most active animal, and it is cruel to keep him always chained to his kennel. Let him have a good walk out whenever possible, and as often as you can, let it be with you; you will then be identified with his greatest pleasure, and his queer antics will sometimes almost make the tears come into your eyes. If you cannot take him yourself, let a servant take hini on an errand, or send him out with a child. Dogs take to children as naturally as ducks to the water, and we have known a great bull-terrier which it would have been dangerous for any stranger to approach, suffer the little children of the family—under three years old—to sprawl over and about him with evident pride and enjoyment. To keep a dog always chained, of itself sours his temper. Let him see the world : use him to a collar and chain, and keep them bright with constant wear. Ladies’ pet dogs, more than almost any others, suffer from want of exercise—the more so from the delicate and constant feeding they have to undergo — so opposed to all dog nature. All the walking the wretched creature knows is between his plate of meat and the ottoman which forms his bed. What wonder if he snaps and snarls at every visitor? His fond mistress thinks and says, “ Poor Fido is so sensitive;” the real fact is, the unhappy wretch is always suffering from indigestion. Cut him down (by degrees of course) to one meal a day, of oatmeal, or rice and gravy; send the servant out with him for two hours every morning, and deny any scraps ; and if not too far gone, he will in a month be a different creature. Washing.—If the animal is healthy and kept as we have recommended, washing will be seldom necessary. A mere cold bath is well enough every morning, provided he is kept active afterwards till thoroughly dry, although in very warm weather this precaution is not so necessary, at other seasons he should on no account be allowed to lie down or go to the fire till all the moisture is gone. Thus treated, a mere cold bath whenever convenient will do him good, except in severe weather. Let the hair be combed and brushed every day—always waiting to remove mud splashes till the coat is dry—and the animal, if in health, will always look respectable. General Treattnent. — Be kind to your dog, but make him feel that you are his master; be gentle and con- siderate, but always firm. Dogs will presume, if allowed: their intellect is undoubtedly higher than that of most other animals, and they know how to take advantage of weakness or indecision. We hate to see a dog kicked and abused ; but we also dislike to see him pampered and spoilt. Such dogs are never so fond of their masters as those which are kept in proper subjection. Also study your dog’s character. Be sure he has one. He knows when he is praised ; he knows when he is blamed ; he is quite aware when he is even ridiculed ! This we are certain of; indeed ridicule—in plain words laughing at him—\s a potent agency in the training of a dog ; no dog can bear to be laughed at. He even has a sort of conscience. Apart from mere fear of punish- ment, he knows there is a right and a zorong. We have often marked a half-bred retriever, after doing what he had never done before, and therefore never been punished for, but which he knew to be wrong, slink in with his tail between his legs, the very picture of guilt. In approaching strange dogs, it is best to notice the eyes. The highest authority we are acquainted with states, that when a dog is angry or excited the pupil is always dilated, and that with ordinary animals this sign may be implicitly depended on, and that by waiting till the pupil is again contracted they may be approached with safety. Some breeds, however, such as the bull-terrier and St. Bernard, are of very uncertain temper, and will sometimes snap without any warning. With all such it is well to be cautious ; but when approaches become necessary, cool- ness without presumption is the best policy. If you are afraid, do not appear to be so if you can help it, and the probability is that the brute will submit. But it is best never to approach a large strange dog till you know his disposition ; we have known sad results from want of caution in this respect. Savage dogs are best killed out of the way. But they are the exception; the rule is affection the most unbounded, devotion the most absolute, fidelity the most inviolable, obedience the most perfect; and all this, if you will, you may have in your dog.