199 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. j assurance, and when the lease is dependent upon the j' joint life and the life of the survivor of two, three, or more Jives, the annual premium is comparatively very small; ! and generally it may be said that recourse may be had to ’j life assurance in the numerous legal complications that I arise in connection with commercial affairs. = No assurance is allowed by law to be effected by one I person on the life of another, unless the person proposing the assurance has a pecicniary interest in the life of the assured. This enactment was instituted by the legislature during the reign of George III., with the view to prevent gaming or wagering assurances, which had become very j prevalent at that period, and it is manifestly highly unwise to place the temptation in the hands of any one of having I a direct money interest in the death of another. I We may here mention that in order to encourage life I assurance by all legitimate means, it is provided by the Income Tax Acts that any person who has effected an assurance on his own life, or on the life of his wife, is entitled to deduct from any profits or gains in respect of I which he may be liable to be assessed, under Schedules D i and E of the said Acts, the amount of annual premiums 'j paid by him for such assurance, to the extent of one-sixth ;; part of the whole amount of his profits or gains. The s amount of premiums, however, must be paid to the office |i in full, and the return claimed from the Government. I Policies of life assurance are exempted from payment ri; under the Succession Duty Act, which duty can be con- ij| veniently provided for by assurance. ilf the information on the points referred to in our last , paper be clearly furnished by the printed returns of the office, an intelligent person should have no great difficulty l[ —we will not go so far as to say, in satisfying himself as i to the financial stability of the company, but at least in I forming a tolerably safe estimate as to its position and I standing; and if he mistrust his own judgment in a matter jj! which may be of so much ultimate importance to his 'I future interests, he would do well to consult some friend who has made himself acquainted with matters connected with the business of life assurance, instead of being induced, probably by an interested agent, blindly to entrust his savings to a society which may not merit his confidence. J However little satisfactory our advice in this matter may appear to be, it is, we fear, all we can suggest for the protection of the interests of an intending applicant for ] assurance, until the Government shall have been induced i to take steps to assist him in the matter by some stringent legislation on the subject; and as it is a matter of such general interest and vital importance to the public, it is earnestly to be hoped that some such alteration in the law |i may be effected at a not very distant period, which will f have the effect not only of giving security and confidence ' to intending assurers, but also of improving the position of all honestly conducted insurance offices. Some companies supplement their ordinary business ji by the grant of Endow?nents to Children and of Life Annuities. Endowments to children are sums payable on a child j attaining a certain age, as may be agreed upon, and are i useful for educational purposes, for providing marriage settlement for girls, and fees for the apprenticeship of boys, as well as the premiums required for young men who intend to enter the legal or medical profession ; also to provide business capital, sums for the purchase of com- missions in the army, and for a variety of purposes of a I like nature. Endowments may be contracted for to be paid in a single sum, or by an annual premium payable up to the specified age ; and it is sometinies arranged that the premiums shall be returned if the child die before attaining the age fixed upon. This is not, however, a favourite species of business with Life Assurance Companies, and probably for this reason, that the chance of death amon^ the young lives with which this class of business usually has to deal is very small, and the company is almost certain to have to pay the amount at the date fixed upon. The profits of the company accordingly must depend almost entirely upon the interest realised on the payments received, and to make it worth while, therefore, to enter into these transactions, a company must not only assume a sufficiently remunerative rate of interest, but must make a considerable addition for profit to the net rate, so that an intelligent purchaser would be able easily to see that he might accordingly do better with his money by investing it himself, and hence the disinclination of many offices to quote terms for this description of contract, which, how- ever, some companies do nevertheless enter into. In a table of rates for Endowments now before us, we find that the consideration required for an endowment of £100, payable on a child aged one year attaining twenty- one, would be a single sum of ^42 iis. iid., or an annual premium of ;^3 5s, lod. Upon reference to a table of compound interest, the force of our remarks w'ill be at once apparent, and the intending purchaser of the endow'- ment in question wall see that he has to pay very dearly for his bargain. Life annuities are not now granted by many life assurance companies, as they have not been usually found to be profitable, owing to the fact of the annuitants exceeding the expectation of life according to the tables, due possibly to the benefit of selection by the purchaser of the annuity agauist the company. Instances are known in which speculators have selected healthy lives of advanced age belonging to families remarkable for longevity, on which large amounts of annuities have been purchased from the Government to the manifest detriment of the public purse, and possibly the same influence may have been at work in the case of assurance companies, which, moreover, cannot attempt to compete with the Govern- ment, whose rates are computed entirely without view to profit, and with the object only of converting permanent annuities—namely, those derivable from the public funds —into terminable annuities depending upon life, and so to some small extent diminishing the National Debt of the country. Attempts have been made by the Govern- ment to check this system of speculation by declining to grant any annuity on the life of a nominee above the age of sixty-five, unless the nominee shall have bona fide a beneficial interest in such annuity. Government annuities for amounts not exceeding ;^5o may be advantageously purchased through the Post-office Savings Banks, and life assurances for sums of not less than £p.o or more than ^100 may be effected through the same medium. (See British Postal Guidei) The effect of this benefit of selection against the company has been that the grant of life annuities by joint-stock companies has proved for the most part a losing financial speculation, and has accordingly been, in a very great measure, confined to a class of companies in need of ready money to carry on and extend their more legitimate business, which the sums paid for the purchase of these annuities very satisfactorily supply. That there is this anxiety to add to their resources is apparent from the fact that the rates quoted for annuities by some of these com- panies are not only temptingly high, but are in excess of those offered by the Government, and for the reason just given it is highly improbable that any trading company can fairly compete with the Government in the sale of life annuities. The principal object of all life assurance being for the purpose of a family provision, it becomes important that as soon as a policy is effected, the proper legal steps should be taken to secure the proceeds to the widow of the assured, or to trustees for the benefit of the children, or otherwise, according to the circumstances of the case. A policy of assurance may either be bequeathed by ' k (Ijii