II CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. minutes, or after a short hacking cough—apparently checked before half finished—it gives a little cry. If there be disease in the head, it will utter sharp piercing shrieks ; then, between whiles, a low wail or moan, and w'ill often sway the head from side to side. Never dose a baby with narcotics. The safest remedy for a pain in the stomach is a few drops of peppermint in water sweetened with sugar, and a hot flannel laid upon the stomach or across the back. In our articles on Domestic Medicine, ample directions will be found for the treatment of all more important symptoms. Sir Charles Locock’s advice, to “give no aperient to a new-born infantP is fully endorsed by other eminent men. Half a tea-spoonful of good moist sugar, dissolved in a tea-spoonful of warm water, should rather be adminis- tered, to be repeated in four hours, if necessary. Or butter and sugar will be far preferable to castor-oil. Generally the baby sleeps with its mother; and this is a good plan, as warmth is of great importance, and the infant having very little power to generate heat itself, that derived from the mother is a great source of comfort and health. During the day the cradle should be near the fire ; and if the weather be very cold, put a hot brick wrapped in flannel, or a bottle of hot water, into the cradle at the child’s feet. Be very careful that the bed and bedding are perfectly dry. According to the “ Rules recommended by the Ob- stetrical Society of London,” we are informed that “ most of the mortality from hand-feeding arises from the use of arrowroot, corn-flour, and other unsuitable kinds of food.” According to the Society’s Rules also, until the child be six or seven months old, farinaceous food is injurious. If the mother be unable to nurse entirely, we recommend the following receipt :—“ Fresh milk from ONE cow, and warm water—of each a quarter of a pint; sugar of milk, one tea-spoonful.” The sugar of milk should first be dissolved in the warm water, and then the fresh milk, unboiled, mixed with it. Half this quantity will suffice for a meal at first; the whole as the child grows older. When a child is two months old, the sooner he is vaccinated the better. If he have any eruption on the skin, delay it, but not on account of “ red gum.” At six or seven months old the best substitute for the mother’s milk is the following :—Crumb of bread boiled for two hours in water, sweetened with a little lump or brown sugar. But what suits one child does not always agree with another. A table-spoonful of lime-water may often with great advantage be added to the milk, instead of an equal quantity of warm water. Where feeding-bottles are used, great care should be taken to scald them out twice a day. In case the mother cannot nurse the child, we recommend goat’s milk for the strong, and ass’s for the delicate. The milk should be warmed by water, and not over the fire. The feeding-bottle so frequently used nov/, with the long india-rubber tube, no doubt saves the nurse a cer- tain amount of trouble, but requires too strong a pull and strain from the tongue ; besides, the food is apt to get cold, and cold food always gives an infant wind, and causes it to torment the mother by a fit of crying. Careful washing night and morning is all-important. The whole body must be well rubbed and soaped. Put the child into the water, supporting its back with your left hand, having your fingers well spread out so as to steady the head ; rub off the soap with the right, and lave the water over the back and head. Take care never to frighten or force the child into the water ; but if on any occasion it appears to have an aversion to the “ ducking,” coax it in. Every part must be carefully dried, especially the folds of the skin, as these, if left wet, are sure to chafe and become sores, often very difficult to heal. Violet-powder is used to dust into these folds, but is worse than nothing unless the skin be perfectly free from damp. When washed, let the child stretch itself well, and, lying flat upon your knees, enjoy its freedom from the trammels of clothing. A healthy child will always stretch and use its small limbs in a most lively and energetic manner when it is naked; nor does it at all relish having itself dressed again. Rub till the skin be in a glow, taking care not to ruffle nor chafe it. In winter weather, a few drops of glycerine in the water will prevent frost-roughness or chapping, both entailing much suffering upon the little one, and at the same time capable of being avoided by proper care and attention. THE DOG.—I. ORIGIN AND PRINCIPAL VARIETIES. It is impossible now to determine with certainty the origin of the dog. It seems generally agreed (there are a few exceptions) that all the varieties now known have had some common ancestor; but about the character of that ancestry very different opinions prevail. Perhaps the most popular view amongst naturalists is that which considers the wolf as the original type; and there certainly are strong reasons to be urged for the belief, absurd as at first sight it may seem. That the wolf and the dog will breed together, and that the progeny is fertile, has often been proved ; and Arctic travellers have again and again remarked that the Esquimaux dog and the wolf can hardly be distinguished. In his account of the well- known expedition led by him in search of Sir John Franklin, Dr. Kane relates that on one occasion a wolf was reported at the meat-house, that he went out to shoot it, and shot—“ one of our dogs. I could have sworn he was a wolf” Many of them have all a wolfs ferocity ; and Hayes, in his “Arctic Boat Journey,” gives a thrilling narrative of his narrow escape from being devoured alive by them. Having on one occasion, when they were hungry, incautiously come near them with nothing, in his hand, they lost their instinctive feeling of dread, and he only saved his life by providentially perceiving one of the dreaded Esquimaux whips a few feet distant, before which the gaunt animals retreated. He also relates how, at Proven, where many of these dogs wei'e kept, the grandson of the governor was actually devoured by them before his mother’s eyes, while walking from one house to another only twenty yards distant. Most of these Arctic dogs have lost the wag of the tail when pleased, which is so distinct a peculiarity of the dog family; but some ot the finest individuals retain it, and, in fact, in some part of the world or other it is indis- putable that almost every conceivable gradation between the dog and the wolf may be found, both in zoological character and mental disposition. We cannot therefore deny, as some have done, that the wolf may have been developed into the dog; and yet we think there are still stronger reasons for holding the contrary opinion— reasons which cold science little considers, but which really ought to have as much weight as those which she herself relies upon. The wolf has been bred in captivity for four genera- tions, with scarcely any abatement in its ferocity and wildness of character. Now men do not take a gi'eat amount of trouble for no return ; and is it likely that the earlier races of men would or could have had such faith in the ultimate reward as to persevere age after age in the attempt to reclaim the untamable beast ? Such questions may be^ unscientific, but they are reasonable ; and there is another case which bears so strong an analogy, that we cannot forbear quoting it in point. There is not, and,