POINT LACE WORK. 356 the crop. The pods should be gathered while young, tender, fleshy, and brittle, as they are then in the greatest perfection. By clean gathering the crop will continue longer in perfection than if a superabundant one were left to grow old ; and, independently of this, you will prevent the successive pods from being robbed of a considerable portion of their nourishment or support. A row or two, or more if necessary, should be set apart for seed, taking care not to gather until they are fully ripened; then pull up the haulm, and lay it in the sun until it is thoroughly dry ; after which the beans may be cleared out of the pods, and put away till wanted. It frequently happens that a sufficient quantity will be found upon the stalks after a crop is over, and when such is the case dry them and put them away for future use. Red Beet.—This is a biennial plant, with large, oblong, succulent leaves of a reddish colour; the roots, when at their full size, are from three to four inches in diameter, and from a foot to eighteen inches in length, and of a deep red colour. The flowers are of a greenish colour, and make their appearance in August. The roots are the only eatable portion when boiled and sliced, either by them- selves or in salads. They are also used for pickling, and occasionally for garnishing. There are several varieties of beet—namely, Henderson’s pine-apple. Nutting’s selected, Cattell’s dwarf blood-red, and Beck’s im- proved—all of which are good ; so that you cannot possibly make a mistake in selecting any one of the four. This plant de- lights most in a dry, light, and a rather sandy loam, having a good depth, so that there may be ample room for the root to penetrate at will. It is always raised from seed, which should be sown annually, either the latter end of March or the be- ginning of April. We never sow earlier ourselves, for this reason, that we have invariably found the early plants run up to stalk, instead of making good root. The ground on which the seed is to be sown should be well manured and trenched the preceding year, in preference to leaving it till the time for sowing arrives, as ground so recently manured invariably causes the roots to canker. The grouted should be trenched eighteen inches deep, be- fore sowing for the long-rooted kinds. The seed may either be sown in broad-cast or in drills a foot apart, but we prefer the latter method for two reasons; first, because they can be more easily kept clear of weeds, and, secondly, they can be thinned with greater facility. Draw drills as you would for peas or beans, and drop the seeds, two together, into the same, at about a foot apart, and as soon as the plants are of an age to distinguish the strongest, pull up the weaker, so as to leave one only standing. Presuming that they have been sown broadcast, as soon as the plants are about two inches high, they must be thinned out to about twelve inches apart in every direction, which will allow them full room to grow and swell to a good size by the autumn, at which time they will befit for use as wanted, and will continue in perfection during the winter and spring following. However, we make it a practice to “ provide for a rainy day,” if we may use the expres- sion, by pitting them up as we would potatoes. But where, however, you have not a sufficient quantity for such a purpose, the roots may be then taken up, trimmed of their leaves, and be deposited in sand, in a shed or outhouse ; or, if you prefer it, you may take up a portion only and keep them under cover for use, when hard frosts would fasten them in the ground ; but the remainder may be still left in the soil, to be taken up as wanted, weather permitting. In February or March the pitted roots may require to be looked at, in order to check the growth, or prevent their running, or they will not keep good till May or June, as they would do if examined periodically, as already observed. Great care must be taken not to break or injure their roots, as they would then bleed much and become pale-coloured. For this reason, on taking off the leaves, an inch of the tops should be left on with the solid root. In order to save seed, a few strong roots should be selected and transplanted to some spot where they will not be in danger, when in flower, of impregnation with any inferior or different variety. A few strong roots may be left standing in the row, which will shoot up the second year, when their flower-stalks should be tied to stakes to prevent their being blown down. White Beet.—This is a hardy biennial plant, the leaves of which are larger than the red beet, and very thick and succulent. It produces its flowers, which are of a greenish colour, in August and September. The leaves of this plant are the only usable parts, which are boiled like spinach or put into soups.. The principal varieties in cul- tivation are the common small- rooted green- leaved, the common white small - rooted, and the large white, or the Swiss. All the sorts are propa- gated by seed, and the soil for these varieties may be considerably stronger and richer than that for the red sorts, but need not be quite so deep. For a bed con- taining fifty-four square feet, one ounce of seed will be sufficient. The seed should be sown in March, either in drills, six or eight inches apart for the small sorts, and ten or twelve for the larger, or ’oroadcast, and the seeds raked in well. When the plants are up two inches high, they must be thinned out to from eight inches to .a foot apart, and afterwards kept clear of weeds. The seed of this sort may be saved in precisely the same manner as that recommended for the red. POINT LACE WORK.—III. We now give, as promised in our last article, the “ Spanish Point Loop,” forming a companion to the “ Trefoil and we would advise its being used, alternately, with the trefoil, either for a banner-screen, a bracket, the border of a table-cover, or a “ bordjire db chejnineed If three of these Vandykes, viz., one “ loop,” one “ trefoil,” and one “ loop,” or vice versd, be traced out on one length of the transparent linen, and tacked down firmly on thick twilled coloured calico, the piece of work, when completed, wi’d be of the right length for trimming a velvet banner-screen, being laid on the velvet, along the lower edge. The two designs will be found to join perfectly, and may be con- tinued alternately to any required length, should a table- cover, a portiire., or any other long piece of work be Fig. I. Fig. 2. Fig. 3.