CHOOSING A TRADE. 362 partly the reason of its stylish appearance, and was obviously designed to prevent any burning coal alighting on the velvet. A frame of wood was first made to set flat round three sides of the hearth; it was alrout eight inches or a foot wide ; over this, arches of wood were placed at close intervals, a lath from end to end supporting the arches. A canvas was then fastened over this by tacks ; on the top was a little padding of flock or wadding, then a second canvas. Lastly, the velvet was stretched across, the side pieces first and the front pieces after them, the oblique join at the corner neatly and imper- ceptibly folded in. The velvet was well fastened down with tacks. Round both edges were placed handsome gilt star-headed nails. (See Figs. 3 and 4.) Feather Mats.— Exceedingly handsome mats for drawing- room doors, under a piano, for drawing-room windows, or as hearthrugs, can be made of game and poultry feathers. These should be sewn on unbleached or grey linen, of good quality, as close as possible, in layers. The mat must either be entirely of the feathers of corresponding colour, or of one colour bordered by another, or in patterns. Thus a white and drake’s-neck green medallion, in a device of the two colours, may be mounted on a ground of partridge-feathers, and have a border of white duck-and-drake’s neck green blended in a pattern. A FEW WORDS ABOUT DYEING. Soiled or faded articles of dress or household wear may frequently be again rendered serviceable by dyeing; and although the larger ones must, from the trouble and care involved, necessarily be sent to the professed dyer, the smaller ones may often be dyed to advantage at home, and some saving of money and much vexatious delay may be effected, more especially in the colonies or in the country, where dyers are not easily reached. It appears desirable, therefore, that we should say a few words on the subject of dyeing, and more especially on that branch of it which may be of practical use to our readers. The art of dyeing is of great antiquity, and a long and interesting essay might be written on its history. For instance, kermes, a dyeing stuff still in use, can be clearly traced backwards through the middle ages to ancient Rome, and thence to Greece, where it was employed to colour the scarlet cloaks of the rich Athenians. The poor Athenians, whose average income was fourpence-halfpenny per day, wore undyed cloaks which were washed some- times, but not too frequently. The Greeks in their turn derived kermes from the Asiatics. Much might be said, if it were to our present purpose, about the famous Tyrian purple ; but we shall only remark with regard to it, that it was probably prized by the ancients much more on ac- count of the absence of other good dyes than for its own intrinsic merits, as compared with those of our time. The art of preparing it is by no means lost, and the shell-fish which furnished the purple pigment still abounds, but we have better colours, and no one finds it worth the trouble of making. It is found that some kinds of material are more easily combined with the colouring matter than others. Silk is easily dyed, and takes the finest of colours. Next in order is wool. As early as 1826 it was discovered that in the waste formed in the manufacture of coal-gas there existed, among others, a substance which was named aniline. About 1858 it was found that, under different kinds of chemical treatment, this would yield a variety of brilliant colours, which were turned to practical account as dyes. From their beauty some of them became fashionable and popular; the best-known of the class are magenta and mauve. Many improvements in the manufacture have since been introduced, and it is found that they have so great an affinity for the cloth, that the use. of mordants may be dispensed with. By the use of these dyes the dirtiness and the difficulty of home-dyeing are done away with. The work may be done with a certainty of success, and without so much as soiling the fingers. The method of using dyes is as follows:— For ordinary small articles, such as ribbons, feathers, &c. Into an earthen basin pour two or four quarts of boiling water. Into this throw the articles to soak for a minute or two, then lift them out with a piece of clean stick, and pour in a little of the dye. The quantity must depend upon the shade required. The novice will do well rather to put too little than too much, as more can be added afterwards, if needed. The articles must never be allowed to remain in the basin while the fluid is poured in. As soon as the dye is mixed with the water the goods must be put in, and stirred briskly with a piece of stick in each hand, that the colour may be equally dis- tributed. For most goods, from five to fifteen minutes’ immersion will be sufficient; if a deep shade be required, or if it be desired to utilise the whole of the colouring matter, they may be allowed to remain longer; and so great is the affinity of the dye for the fabric, that the whole will be absorbed and the water rendered colourless. There is, therefore, no reason for using a small quantity of water on the ground of economy of dye. The colour will not be lost in the larger quantity, and the goods should have abundant room to expand. When the- goods are of a sufficiently deep shade, remove them from the water with the stick, and hang to dry. Till they are thoroughly dried the full beauty of the colour will not be seen. The aniline, like other dyes, are found to have a greater affinity for silk and wool than for cotton or linen. We recommend that if cotton or mixed fabrics are to be dyed, the colours used should be violet or mauve. The ma- genta is the most powerful as well as the most beautiful. About two tablespoonfuls of this is sufficient to dye twenty yards of bonnet ribbon, or a much larger quantity to the fainter shade, rose pink, or a proportionate quantity of woollen goods. In using dyes on faded articles which have previously been coloured, it will be well that the darker hues, such as magenta, violet, crimson, should be employed. Goods which bear a pattern in black and white, in spots or stripes, as a shepherds’ plaid, for instance, will dye to excellent effect in atiy colour. Thus a lady’s Garibaldi jacket, with black ground and faded pattern, may be thoroughly restored by using six penny- worth of violet or magenta dye in a pailful of boiling water. Precisely the same mode of treatment will apply to most articles of clothing—such as opera-cloaks, bernouses, jackets, scarfs, handkerchiefs, petticoats, feathers, &c. CHOOSING A TRADE.—II. WATCHMAKING {co7itinucdfromp. 308). The earliest kinds of clocks, which were certainly made as far back as the eleventh or twelfth century, consisted of a small toothed wheel, or “ pinion,” fastened to an axle with square end, so that a key could be fitted on it with which to turn it. The teeth of this “pinion” operated on another and larger toothed wheel fastened to a barrel, or roller, round which a string or chain, with a weight at the end, could be wound by the action of the key on the spindle of the first wheel. In order to prevent the cord or chain from unwinding as fast as it was wound, because of the weight at the end, a third wheel with cogs, called a “ratchet, ” acted, by means of a click or mov'able lever, on a still larger wheel at the other end of the barrel. When the weight was wound up, however, it began at once to drag the barrel round as it descended, and so turned both