used, but, as these are principally employed in wholesale I Quarter... 8 Bushels. ... i6o WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. Proverbs is a game of a more intellectual character. In this, one person volunteers, or is chosen by the com- pany, to leave the room, and in his or her absence a pro- verb is fixed upon by the remaining party. The person outside is then called in, and the first person whom he addresses with any remark or inquiry, is bound to reply to him with an answer in which the first word of the pro- verb is introduced. The second person to whom he goes must reply in such a way as to bring in the second word ; and so on, until the proverb has been repeated. He is then informed that he need not proceed further, and is left to guess the proverb chosen. If he fails in three attempts, he must again retire, and his ingenuity is tried by the selection and repetition of another proverb. Any one making an answer in which the right word in turn is not introduced, pays the penalty of a forfeit, and the company are, therefore, on the watch to see that each person addressed duly performs the part. The great art of the game is in so wrapping up the word in the course of the reply as to make it difficult to the guesser to discover the proverb which was chosen. Some proverbs are far more easy of detection than others, from the forcible or peculiar words comprised in them, or the diffi- culty which the answerers find in concealing the words which fall to them in rotation. “ Still waters run deep” may be taken as an example of the class difficult of con- cealment, for “waters” and “deep” are awkward words to introduce, and will easily connect themselves in the mind of the guesser, who is on the watch for his clue. “ Where there’s a will there’s a way” is more capable of disguise, but “will” and “way” will reveal themselves to a person quick of apprehension. None of the proverbs chosen should consist of very many words, or the guess- ing may become tedious. When the proverb is detected, the guesser is entitled to claim that some one else shall take his place, and may, if he pleases, select for that pur- pose the person whose insufficient disguise of the allotted word gave him his first clue. Or he may name any one else in the company for the purpose. If the guesser tries his skill two or three times without success, he may claim relief from his office, and some one else may be appointed. In this, as in all other games, it must be remembered that when weariness on any side commences, amusement is at an end ; and where there are symptoms of a game reach- ing that point, it should be relinquished for another. WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. A KNOWLEDGE of customary weights and measures is very desirable, and, therefore, the following tables have been drawn up in the most simple form. No. i is the most extensively used of all weights, being that by which we buy and sell nearly everything that is weighed. No. 2 is used principally for weighing gold and silver. No. 3 is often met with in physicians’ prescriptions, although drugs are now sold by avoirdupois weight. No. 4 is that by which diamonds and other gems are weighed. The grain is divisible into sixteen parts. No. 5 represents the most frequently used of measures of length. The measures marked with a star (*) are of less common occurrence, and are, in fact, only employed for special purposes, when they are used. The degree consists of only sixty geogra- phical miles, which are equal to rather over sixty-nine statute miles. No. 6 is used for measuring surfaces, and is employed by carpenters, glaziers, land-surveyors, &c. No. 7 is for measuring stone, marble, timber, and other solid bodies. No. 8 is used for measuring a great variety of goods, both dry and liquid. Numerous other measures were formerly in use, but are not here given, as being out of date. There are also cer- tain articles of commerce, as wool, cheese and butter, hay and straw, firewood, &c., for which peculiar weights are trade, they also are omitted. Coals were once sold by measure, but must now be sold by weight. In London and elsewhere, a ton of coals consists of ten sacks, each sack containing two hundredweights. Potatoes are now commonly sold by weight, though measures are still used in some places. I.—AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT. I Grain (gr.) I Dram equals I Ounce (oz.) ... ... „ I Pound (lb.) ... ... „ I Stone (for meat or fish) „ I Stone (for general purposes) „ I Quarter ... ... „ I Hundredweight (cwt.) „ I Ton ... ... ... „ 2‘jW Grains. 16 Drams. 16 Ounces. 8 Pounds. 14 Pounds. 28 Pounds. 112 Pounds. 20 Cwt. 2.—TROY WEIGHT. I Grain (gr.) I Pennyweight (dwt.) ... equals 24 Grains. I Ounce (oz.) ... ... „ 20 Dwt. I Pound (lb.) ... ... „ 12 Ounces. 3.—APOTHECARIES’ WEIGHT. I Grain. 1 Scruple... equals 20 Grains. I Dram ... 3 Scruples. I Ounce ... 8 Drams. I Pound ... 12 Ounces. 4.—DIAMOND MEASURE. I Carat equals 4 Grains. I Carat ... 3I Gr. Troy. 5.-—LONG MEASURE. I Inch. I Nail * equals 2\ Inches. I Palm * ... 7) 3 Inches. I Hand *... 77 4 Inches. I Span * ... 77 9 Inches. I Foot 77 12 Inches. I Yard 77 3 Feet. I Ell * 77 li Yards. I Fathom * 77 2 Yards. I Pole or Rod 77 5^ Yards. 1 Furlong... 77 40 Poles. I Mile (statute) ... 77 8 Furlongs. I League ?7 3 Miles. I Degree 77 69 Miles. 6.—SUPERFICIAL MEASURE. I Square Inch. I Square Foot I Square Yard I Square Pole I Rood I Acre equals 144 Square Inches. „ 9 Square Feet. 11 3O4 Square Yards,. „ 40 Square Poles. „ 4 Roods. 7.—CUBIC OR SOLID MEASURE. I Cubic Inch. I Cubic Foot equals 1,728 Cubic Inches. I Cubic Yard „ 27 Cubic Feet. f „ 40 Feet of Rough Timber, I Load or Ton } or ( „ 50 Feet of Hewn Timber. I Ton Shipping „ 42 Cubic Feet. 8.—HOLLOW MEASURE, I Gill. I Pint ... equals 4 Gills. I Quart ... 2 Pints. I Pottle ... ••• 7 2 Quarts. I Gallon ... 4 Quarts. I Peck • • • 7 2 Gallons. I Bushel ... • • • 8 Gallons. I Coom ... »7 4 Bushels.