228 CATTLE. CATTLE.—II. THE VARIETIES OF CATTLE {continuedfromp. 189). Passing from the dairy to what must be called rather the flesh-producing breeds, the first place, after the Shorthorn, must be given to the Hereford. This breed is charac- terised by an almost invariably red colour, with a white face. It has lately been much improved, and now almost equals the Shorthorn in size and early maturity ; while many think the quality of the meat is a shade superior. As milkers, however, the cows are decidedly inferior. The Devon is a smaller breed, and was a great favourite with the late Prince Consort. The horns are rather long, and turned upwards. Like the Hereford, the pure breed is inferior for the dairy, but fattens well, and produces meat of very juicy quality. It has, however, another re- commendation to very many parties: being remarkably The Galloway is a somewhat similar breed, but of the polled or hornless tribe, and the hair is smoother, and not so long as in the West Highland; the animal also attains a larger size. This must be described as one of the very best built and most symmetrical of all our breeds of cattle. All is beautifully compact, with a broad and straight back which cannot be surpassed. The Angus is also a polled breed, and the largest of all the Scotch varieties. It is of a black or sometimes red colour, and of very great fattening capacities. There are numerous other breeds, sub-varieties, and crosses, but which scarcely demand special attention; and we conclude this article with a few practical remarks of a general character. We have endeavoured to give, shortly, the usual quali- ties of the principal breeds; but it will be easily under- stood that different individuals of the same race may vary HEREFORD COW. light and active, it is more than any other breed suitable for farm work on light hand, and in many places the oxen are accordingly worked in harness till five or six years old, after which they are fattened, which process is very readily accomplished, the bones being small and fine. On light soil, two Devon oxen will do as much work at the plough as one horse, but their light make renders them unsuitable for working on heavy land. The colour of the Devon is red or bay. Although, as we have hinted, inferior in point of quantity of milk, what there is of it is of unusual richness, so that the cow will yield much more butter than might be supposed. A Devon cow, crossed with a Shorthorn bull, generally pro- duces a cow excellent for milking, with a good tendency to faUen when dried. The Sussex breed much resembles the Devon, but it is larger and coarser ; hence the oxen are better adapted for labour on heavy land. Many prizes have lately been awarded to this breed, which is gaining ground as a meat- producing one. The West Highland or Kyloe breed is largely reared in Scotland, to be driven south, and fattened for the English butcher. They are symmetrical animals, especially the bulls, very hardy, and their meat is of fine quality. The colour is generally black, but sometimes reddish or dun, and the hair is long and shaggy. The cows do not yield much milk, but it is of very great richness. greatly in their milking qualities. Yet, while this point may make all the difference, how very seldom it is inves- tigated. One cow will give twelve quarts at a milking, while another of the same breed may only give six. Very likely the price of each animal will be the same, while the return is widely different. When the parentage can be traced, it is generally safe to buy a cow which comes of a good milking fatnily—that is, if the dam is a good milker, and the sire also bred from a good milker, it is many chances to one the animal her- self will be valuable in the same way, and it is surely worth some trouble to ascertain. Great consideration must, however, be given to what the cow is wanted for. If the sale of milk be intended, animals must be kept which will give the largest quantity; but if butter be the object, this rule may lead to disastrous mistakes, for eight quarts of milk from one cow will yield more butter than twelve quarts from another. Again, the milk of some cows will make good butter, but very bad cheese, and all these circumstances should be taken into account. Generally speaking, the hind-quarters of a good milking cow are much heavier than the fore, and according to many careful and scientific observers, the spinous pro- cesses of the lumbar vertebrae generally bend well forward, so as to leave a good space between the last spine and the sacrum. The udder also should be long and wide, but not too deep (which shows debility), and it is very important