CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 345 stripe from the right shoulder to the left side. Knights commanders wear the badge upon a narrower ribbon from the neck, and have on their left side a star of four rays, upon which is a small cross of eight points in silver, surmounted by the red cross of St. George, and having the same centre as that of knights grand crosses. Other members wear the small cross from a still nar- rower ribbon at their button-hole. The blue satin mantle is lined with scarlet, is tied with cordons of blue and scarlet silk and gold, and has the star of the grand cross on the left side. The chapeau, of blue satin, lined with scarlet, is surmounted with black and white ostrich feathers. The officers of the order comprise the DECORATIVE MODELLING. A Bracket.—Let us say that our student has, in the entrance-hall of his home, wall space on which four bi'ackets can be placed. We shall presently fill them with vases or busts, but will first model the brackets themselves. The ornament upon them shall be taken from nature, and they shall repre- sent the Four Seasons. The first proceeding will be to get two pieces of board, of the size and proportions of our proposed bracket, nailed together at right angles, thus, f. The frame must be laid on the inclined plane, and a solid core or body of clay (which will give the general form of the bracket, and must be similar in all the set) built upon it. (See THE CORE. Fig- 4- prelate, chancellor, secretary and registrar, king of arms, and officer of arms (Malta). Knights grand cross are designated by the letters G.C.M.G. ; knights commanders, K.C.M.G.; and companions, C.M.G. HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART.—XI. MODELLING IN CLAY FOR AMATEURS {continuedfrom f. 317). Our first lesson has been for practice only, and when the model has been carefully and conscientiously finished, the student cannot do better than break it up and see that the clay is re-prepared for use, as directed in the section on Material; but we shall now suppose that by copying the cast, sufficient skill has been attained producing something more original in its worth preserving. Fig. 2.—SECTION. to fit him for character, and Fig. 3- Fig. I.) On this the ornamental parts will be modelled, but before that is done it should be allowed to remain for a day uncovered, that it may slightly harden and “ set.” We propose that each bracket shall be ornamented with the appropriate growth of the season it represents. Spring shall have the primrose, anemony, and snowdrop ; Summer, oak and briony ; Autumn, grapes, corn, and the convolvulus; Winter, holly and ivy. Having placed the natural objects to be copied beside his work, the student may begin to form his composition. And here we may remark that if he possesses some knowledge of drawing, and can make a rough sketch on paper of the general manner in which he proposes to arrange his design, hg will save himself some little trouble ; but this is not essential ; and if he cannot do it he must begin his sketch on the model itself. He can d-o this by scratching on the clay core with one of the sharp-pointed tools, and sticking on bits of clay i