CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 347 1 by spinning short staple cotton of inferior quality, and when an undressed calico is held to the light they are easily , I discernible. A calico of this description will not wear ' I well, simply because it is made of unevenly-spun cotton. In all cotton cloth some defects of thelkind are perceivable, I but a purchaser should choosie that which has the fewest, I and of course this will be the most expensive. Sheeting calico should have the thread round and even, both ■threads, warp and woof, being alike, not a thin thread _ j running the length of the material, and a thick one across i' it. This calico will “ slieve,” that is, one thread pull from *' the other, or it will crack across, without other indications : of wear. Calico for sheets is sold in widths suitable for 1 beds of different sizes, and is not dearer in proportion I than a number of breadths equal to the width of sheeting would be; but three breadths of three-quarters wide calico { seamed together would be stronger than sheeting calico » without a seam. The quantity of calico necessary for j one sheet the full size for a large bedstead would be (three yards and a quarter long by two and a half wide. Whatever be the width of a sheet, it should be three- quarters of a yard longer than it is wide. For servants’ and young schoolboys’ sheets, the un- i bleached brown cotton, free from black specks on both i sides, is undoubtedly the best material. The oftener it is K washed the softer it becomes, and when not too fine, n imparts warmth nearly as much as wool does. It is also b the best thing for pillow-cases. Sheets of linen, to those who have been accustomed to 1; them, cannot be dispensed with—habit is second nature, r The same observations apply to choosing the linen for l.i these as to calico: the fabric should be free from coarse l) threads, that is coarse by comparison with the surrounding b threads, and the edges of the material even. The manu- } facturers have a practice of “ dressing ” linen so that the !' threads look sound and even, but are not really so ; the (! quality can only be detected by rubbing soft one end of it. '/j When a great number of coarse threads are prominently visible, the cloth is made of short flax imperfectly spun, and will not wear well. I The practice of rolling a bolster in the sheet is not a comfortable one, nor is it thrifty. The ticking soon gets (! dirty. A bolster-case is always needed, and even if the 1 sheets be of calico, this and the pillow-cases should be '•(; of linen. Yard wide cloth is sold for the purpose. A * bolster-case should be sixty inches long for a five-foot H bedstead, and less or more in proportion to its size. The ; | case may be joined at one end, and four buttons and ic' button-holes on a hem two inches wide wiU fasten it at the other end, or one end may be set into a circular piece of I [ linen four inches in diameter, and the opposite end drawn up close with a string of tape. Pillow-cases rather more I than three-quarters of a yard long are of Irish linen a yard wide, the selvage of one side doubled in half and ; seamed together; the two raw edges is a felled seam, and the remaining selvage side, turned down, is a hem an inch broad, and for closing this end over the pillow have four small linen buttons and neatly-made button-holes opposite the buttons sewed upon the hem of the seam. Towelling.—There is a great variety of fabrics sold for towels. First comes the huckaback—originally huckle- bock—i.e., having a knotted or bunched surface—and this, when made of coarse linen, is certainly most excellent for absorbing the wet and for rubbing the skin, whereby to create a reaction and glow. Material of this descrip-, tion can be bought for eightpence the yard, and the un- bleached is preferable. As all linen articles shrink in washing, huckaback should not be fine, but thick and loose in its texture. Eighteen nails is the proper length for a towel, which should be fringed at the ends, by cutting the selvage on the four sides about an inch in depth, then ravelling so far, and finally sewing over the towel between the fringe in an irregular manner. Thus it never ravels in washing. The reason for fringing the ends is, that when hemmed, the dirt is rarely rinsed out of the hems in washing, and the mangle cannot leave the impression of the hems on the next towel or article beneath it. Russian Towelling, termed by drapers “crash,” is a strong material of narrow width made in Russia, and imported therefrom. Many persons prefer this make for towels because of its roughness when new ; and when old, it is soft, and strong, and convertible to other household purposes. This kind is preferable for runner-towels ; three yards is a good length for a runner ; and at 5d. a yard it can be bought of an excellent quality. HOUSEHOLD AMUSEMENTS.—X. ACTED CHARADES [continned from f. 320). Opinions differ as to whether the syllable or word which is represented should be uttered during the scene. Some, in practice, express it only by action ; others think it best that it should be mentioned in the course of the dialogue, but so introduced that it is disguised, or withheld from all prominence. This, however, is a matter on which the performers should be left to their own taste or judgment but there should be an understanding among both them- selves and the spectators, as to which rule is to be observed. The next thing is to represent the syllables agreed upon. Where the company are not generally expert, some one who has had experience in charade-playing should, if possible, be selected as the leader and director of each party, and plan the various parts to be taken by all, giving hints or instructions as to the details of the performance. As much humour as possible should be thrown into it, and clumsi- ness or blunders should be taken as of no account, the object being simply amusement. An awkward but good- humoured performer is often able to excite as much harm- less mirth as any of the rest. The various characters in the scene to be represented should dress themselves up, according to the means at hand, for their respective parts ; but the most “ rough and ready” articles of costume are as good for the real purpose as any other. It is enough, for instance, that the principal figure in a scene representing “ age ” should wear a grey wig, or a slouched hat and spectacles, or hobble along with a stick, doing the pantomime of deafness, &c. Those who have the means as well as the inclination for the adoption of an elaborate costume in the performance of acting charades can, of course, gratify their taste; but this is by no means necessary to the thorough enjoyment of the pastime either by actors or spectators ; the resources which any one may find immediately to hand often creating the most amusement. The following are examples of the “makeshift” ex- pedients which may be resorted to in the performance of various characters in the scenes of a charade. Baby.—May be either a real one or a dummy; the former preferable when mamma gives consent to its introduction. Bride. — Wreath made like a boy’s kite-tail; anti- macassar fastened to the hair to represent the bridM veil; white paper bows pinned to dress ; white kid gloves ; and bouquet. Cabman.—Wideawake hat, handkerchief round the neck, two great coats, walking-stick with a string tied to it, tart- dish for a badge. Child.—Any juvenile, “ fractious ” or otherwise, will answer the purpose. _ Counsel.—Wig made of cotton wool, paper collar with bibs, long dressing-gown, roll of paper in the hand. Country girl.—Gipsy hat with streamers, dress pinned up at four points, rouge generally requisite.