174 OCCUPATIONS ACCESSIBLE TO WOMEN. OCCUPATIONS ACCESSIBLE TO WOMEN.—III. POSTS OF SUFiiRINTENDENCE (continuedfromp. 151). In our last article on the employment of women, we fully considered the various public occupations, under Local Government and other Boards, now accessible to them. The private posts of superintendence of a similar kind are innumerable, and open a vast field of usefulness, which, alas ! there are few workers at present capable of filling with credit. A recent writer on this subject, to whom we are largely indebted for information, says: “ There is at the present time an opening for at least two thousand highly-trained women, as superintendents in hospitals, public and private training schools for nurses, cottage hospitals, convalescent homes, and the likeand concludes by saying that “the only obstacle which appears to intervene between the women who need this work as a means of livelihood and the work itself, arises from two causes, the one technical and the other moral: the first, the defective preparation for the work of life ; and the second, that want of earnestness and of deliberate deter- mination to succeed which, in itself, conduces so much to the fulfilment of its purpose.” In entering on this subject we must also bear in mind that a woman must be first a nurse or teacher herself, and then a superintendent of others. After efficient training, the special qualifications are sound judgment, good sense, tact, sympathy, and the self-reliance required for ruling others and directing their work. It is essential to a good superintendent that she should be able and willing to recognise the powers of her subordinates, and endeavour to make the regularity of her work, in a measure, in- dependent of her personal direction. This is peculiarly a requisite in hospital supervision, which is the branch we propose to consider first. For full particulars on the subject we recommend the careful study of the exhaustive article by Miss Nightingale,which appeared in the “Blue Book” for 1867. In this she lays down a severer course of technical apprenticeship for superintendents than for nurses. On them depends the care of the nurses, their well-being and moral tone; and this of itself requires much firmness and determination. The salaries attached to this position vary greatly at present, being from £ysi to ;i{jioo per annum, with board and lodging. No doubt, when the requirements are better understood and filled, the salaries will rise. The same rules will hold good in cases of Superintendents of Cottage Hospitals. Of course, in this case, there is a greater measure of responsibility, as the superintendent has no resident medical officer always at hand to refer to, and accordingly must use her own best judgment in difficult cases. The salaries vary from £pzo to .^50, with board and lodging. The next two posts of superintendence to be considered are those of Matron of a Penitentiary and Superintendent of a Creche. The latter may be thought, at first sight, thesimplest and most natural occupation in the world for a woman ; but in reality nothing is more rare than a natural talent for managing children. Unfortunately, there is no place like a Foundling Hospital, where practice in the care of babies for the first year after birth can be obtained ; but the training should certainly include a stay of six months in a children’s hospital. A thorough acquaintance with that charming system of amusing and teaching children, known as the Kindergarten, is absolutely necessary. A bright-tempered, cheery young woman, from twenty-five to thirty years of age, is well suited to the post. The salaries vary so much, it is difficult to mention any sum as a rule ; board and lodging, however, are nearly always included. The Matron of a Penitentiary requires not only a strong inclination for her work, but also what may be called an absolute “ vocation ” for it. There are several public institutions, as well as a few private ones, for the re- formation of women ; and the salaries paid amount in some cases to £\oo per annum, with board and lodging. Widows are very generally preferred, who have had much experience of life and have attained middle age ; and they will require a tender and loving heart, and much tact in the position they undertake. The Endowed Schools’ Commission, the Public Day Schools’ Company, and many other high schools which are being established, offer many posts of superintendence worthy of the consideration of high-class teachers. A high standard of qualification is required, and such salaries are to be paid as women have never yet been able to command, whatever their attainments. The most important of the schools, in the scheme of the Endowed Schools’ Com- mission, are in Middlesex. The pupils will number from 120 to 400 girls ; and the gross salaries in two cases, with fixed salary, pupils’ fees, and capitation fees, reach the maximum of ^1,300 and £2,000 ; and in six other cases give, as minimum salaries, ;^30o, ;^3oo, £i7S, £900, and ^1,100. In the more remote counties there are many schools which, by the same authority, are to yield salaries of £700 per annum in six cases, and .^300 to ;{j4oo in eight. Of the training requisites we shall have occasion to speak in a chapter on education. The Public Day Schools’ Company have opened already ten schools, and hope that in a few years no large town of 5,000 inhabitants will be without its high school for girls. They offer salaries of about .£300 a year to head- mistresses, and find it most difficult to obtain suitable persons. Thirty is considered the most suitable age, and the company require some experience and a guarantee as to powers of teaching and as to attainments. The post of Overseer of Women in Factories has lately been opened to women. A gentlewoman has been em- ployed by a well-known firm in this capacity, with much benefit to both masters and employes; and the example has been followed by some of the large shops in London where large numbers of girls are employed. The salary paid was over £100 per annum, with board and lodging. It has been suggested that ladies with a small income of their own, ol from £^o to ;^5o a year, might find remunerative employment and useful work by keeping a Servants’ Home and Registry Office for servants out of place. Where these offices of an inferior order flourish by the score in all large towns, it is evident that a lady of good address and business habits would soon gain a good position in keeping a high-class Registry Office. The Home, of eight or ten beds, in connection with it, would be an untold blessing for young servants, but, of course, would not be self-supporting—the Registry being the remunerative work. A small demand exists for Parish Workers, to assist clergymen of the Established Church in the secular part of their duty—Evening Classes, Mothers’ Meetings, Clothing Clubs, Bible Classes for Young Women, &c. This position would be a very happy one for many a clergyman’s widow or daughter, and the salary of £30 or ^50 she would obtain would keep the home together, while for the want of some such work it might have to be broken up. Parochial Mission and Bible Women are two other posts open to women. The office for the first is 54, Par- liament Street, S.W., and for the second, 13, Hunter Street, Brunswick Square. The wages earned are about 12s. 6d. a week, with Saturday and Sunday free. There is at present a demand for female Instructors and Demonstrators in Cookery. The two classes are quite distinct, as the latter may be only an ordinary cook, well drilled and thoroughly instructed; but the former must be a woman of some education, tact, and resources, with power of expressing herself clearly and intelligibly, and of answering unforeseen questions. The age must not be under twenty-one nor over thirty years ; the fee at the