CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 293 Fig. 92. cross and first run. When the backs are (like the dotted line in Fig. 78) from E to F, a well- rounded line from C to E, and a straight line from D to F. Cut out the pattern as you have drawn it. Cut two pieces alike for each sleeve, doubling the stuff first, or else taking care to reverse the pattern. Sleeves like this are cut straight—down the material—as it is called ; the selvage is level with c and D on the straight side. The shape of the curve at the outside makes that part of the sleeve in effect on the cross, although the inner side is straight and level with the selvage. This is shape enough for a young child’s sleeve. Allow half an inch in cutting all round the paper pattern. Take the dotted line K for a pattern for a short sleeve for a frock or petticoat. If the petticoat be first cut from this pattern, cut the body and sleeves of the dress a little wider—a quarter of an inch on each side. Short sleeves are not cut in two pieces like the long ones, but in one, at the side E, and joined once at the side c. Measure the child to cut the skirt. Allow half an inch for gathers. The hem had better be two inches deep, therefore allow two and a half for it, as it has a turning-in. Atuck is advisable in a growingchild’s skirt. As a tuck is double, allow double the depth. Four inches is wanted for a two- inch tuck, which is best with a two- inch wide hem. A skirt for a child of two should not measure less than two yards round. Often three yards is allowed. To make zip the Pelisse. — Cut a lining of thin calico, the same size as the pieces of the body and sleeves. Tack each piece of the body and sleeves to the lining, half an inch in from the edge. To do this, lay the material on the lining, using a rather large needle charged with a long thread of very fine white cotton, such as you would use to mend lace. Tack the body and sleeves together at the places marked by the pins for turning in, and try them on. Then stitch together the sides and shoulders neatly with cotton the same colour as the material. Pipings are cut from the material on the hemmed, run a piping round the neck, waist, and arm-holes of the body. Run the piping on the right side, the cord downwards, half an inch in. This is after- wards turned down at the back and hemmed. It is neater, however, to run a narrow white ribbon (or twilled tape) on after the piping, still on the right side, and then turn down piping and ribbon. If the ends of the piping are too wide, cut them away, and run down the ribbon to the body on the wrong side. The pipings round the arm- hole must not have the ribbon run on, nor yet be turned down and hemmed. The sleeves are stitched in, and the ends cut away close and overcast. Stitch the sleeves together first, and pipe the cuffs, turning them down with the ribbon. Overcast the sleeves. To put the sleeve into the arm-hole, fix the seam of the sleeve quite an inch behind the shoulder-seam of the body. The skirt is not generally lined. Hem the bottom, and make the tuck if there is one. For a trimmed pelisse there had better be a deep hem. Cut a slit in the centre of the breadth behind for a placket hole; hem one side inch-wide, the other quite narrow. Fold the broad over the narrow hem, and stitch the fold across at the bottom. When the trimming is on, turn down half an inch at the top of the skirt, and pleat it in small pleats, turning towards the front, and beginning two inches apart, in front; these pleats are closer and larger towards the back. The cape must be lined with fine cambric muslin, or twilled muslin, to match it in colour. Cut it out from the same pattern, and tack it to the cape when trimmed, both lining and material face to face, and the wrong sides outwards. Run them nicely together half an inch in. Take out the tacking threads and turn. The cape is run all round the edges and sides, the throat only left. It is turned through the opening at the throat. Tack it together all round again. If the cape is to be faced with silk, cut the silk the shape of the dotted line T in Fig. 73; run the edge next T on the wrong side of the silk to the right side of the lining; turn it over and tack it down before tack- ing the whole of the lining to the material. Cut a small collar, and also line it after it is trimmed. Turn the lining as the cape lining was turned. Run the neck of the collar to the ma- terial of the cape, not taking up the lining. Then turn in as much of the lining of the cape as you have run into the collar of the material (about half an inch), and hem it neatly to the collar, taking care the stitches do not come through. The Trimming.— The trimming is put on the cape and collar before they are lined; on the cuffs of the sleeves before the straight or under seam is closed so that the ends may be turned in; on the skirt it is set before the pleats are made. Lay the cape, &c., flat on a table, and tack the trimming first, not pulling it tight, but letting it go easy. Lay the trimming down on the material, and tack it; lastly, run it on neatly, taking a back stitch every time the needle is inserted afresh. The skirt may be either trimmed before the last seam is run up—leaving the ends of the hem open an inch each way, and closing them after—or half the skirt can be laid on the table, the trimming tacked, then turned, and the other half tacked. In that case, open the seam, and let in the ends of the braid or velvet. Fringes and muslin edges are put on last, when the cape is lined. Capes of muslin or piqu^ are not lined, but piped at the edge, and the pipings hemmed down. Some of the pique ones, with muslin-worked edges, have the muslin hemmed down over the pipings ; others are cut rather close, left loose, and overcast neatly. This stiffens out the embroidered edge well. Piqu^ is piped with cambric muslin.