CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 303 Leaving this subject and turning to other common dis- eases, we shall adopt the following alphabetical arrange- ment in treating of the common diseases that we mean to describe; and when we have reached the end of our list, should space remain, we shall treat, by way of supple- ment, of any subjects that we may have omitted;— Abscess. Ague. Apoplexy. Asthma. See Bronchitis. Bilious Disorders, including Jaundice. Bladder, Diseases of. Boils. Bronchitis, including Asthma. Carbuncle. Colic. Common Cold, including In- fluenza. Constipation. Consumption. Deafness. Debility. Diabetes. Diarrhoea. Diphtheria. Dropsies. Drunkenness. Dysentery. Dyspepsia, including Flatu- lence, Constipation, and Bilious Disorders. Epilepsy. Erysipelas. Faintness. Flatulence. Goitre. Gout. Gravel. Heart, Diseases of Influenza. See Common Cold. Insanity. Jaundice. Kidney, Diseases of. Hysterics. Lead Poisoning. Liver. See Bilious Disorders. Lungs, Inflammation of Lumbago. Paralysis. Piles. Pleurisy. Rheumatic Fever. Rheumatism. Scurvy. Sore Throat. St. Vitus’s Dance. Styes. Water in the Head. ABSCESS. An abscess means any collection of matter within a circumscribed cavity. This may vary in size from a common boil to those'large collections of matter which are connected, for the most part, with diseases of the glands or of the bones. Boils will be treated of by them- selves ; and larger collections of matter, either in the neck or, still more, in the groin, are generally attended with some fault of the system which requires medical consideration. Such collections in the neck often occur in teething children. They should not be poulticed too long, and the matter should be let out almost as soon as it is certain that it is there; for, if the opening of the abscess by a lancet is deferred too long, the skin gets thin, and is destroyed by pressure. In this way ugly scars of the neck are often left, which would be prevented by an early small opening. The same remarks hold equally true of collections of matter in the groin. In the groin and in the arm-pit swellings of the glands often occur in which matter is formed. These generally depend on sores in the neighbourhood, as in the foot or leg in the one case and in the fingers or arm in the other. Such sore places should be poulticed. Patients with abscesses require good support. \_See Boils.] AGUE. Ague is a disease not much seen in England now, except in some marshy parts, chiefly along the eastern coast—in parts of Kent, Essex, Cambridgeshire, Norfolk, Lincolnshire, and the East Riding of Yorkshire. Agues used to be very frequent and fatal, even in London. James I. and Cromwell both died of ague contracted in the metropolis. Doubtless the decline of the disease is due to the improved drainage of the country. It is still very common in some countries, as along the low and level coast of Holland; in parts of Italy, especially the Pontine Marshes, near Rome ; in parts of America, as North and South Carolina and Virginia ; in various parts of India and Africa. The ague is a fine specimen of a periodical disease. It comes on in fits at a particular time, as if it kept a watch, goes through distinct stages, and then leaves the patient pretty well, as he continues to be until the next fit returns. An ague-fit consists of three well-marked stages :—ist, the cold stage ; 2nd, the hot stage; and 3rd, the sweating stage. There are different kinds of ague—the quotidian (daily), the tertian (third day), the quartan (fourth day ague). In the first kind there is an interval of twenty-four hours between the fits; in the second of forty-eight hours ; and in the third of seventy-two. In the daily form the fit occurs for the most part in the morning; in the tertian form at noon ; in the quartan form in the afternoon. Symptoms.—As we have said, the ague has three stages — the cold, the hot, and the sweating. The cold begins by the patient feeling very shivery, until he shakes and chatters with his teeth and looks the picture of cold and misery. It lasts from half an hour to three hours. It then gives place to the second or hot stage, in which the patient gets as uncomfortably hot as he was previously cold. This stage may last from three to twelve hours— generally not less than three—it is succeeded by the sweating stage, which does not last more than a few hours, and ends in complete relief. The patient is left comparatively well in the interval. But if the disease is not treated with the wonderful remedy for it, various internal discomforts and congestions are apt to arise. The internal organs—especially the spleen and the liver—seem to get loaded with blood during the cold stage, and sometimes remain for a time congested and enlarged. Treat7neni.—The treatment of ague is perhaps the most successful thing in the practice of medicine, for we have a remedy that is almost a specific for it, and cures it like a charm. We mean quinine. If the value of quinine, or bark—for quinine is just the active part of bark—had been discovered in time, probably the lives of both James I. and Cromwell would have been saved. It is curious to think what might have been the political consequences of the earlier discovery of this medicine. As will be readily imagined, the treatment of the disease varies in its stages. When a patient is in the first stage the only thing to do is to promote the return of warmth by covering him over with warm blankets, putting warm bottles to the feet, stomach, &c., and giving warm drinks. In the hot stage, on the other hand, the heat must be moderated by light clothing, cooling or effervescing drinks ; and in the sweating stage the chief thing to do is to administer freely pleasant drinks, and to let the patient be still and com- fortably covered. It is in the interval of the fits that the great remedy must be administered ; and the administra- tion of it in any particular case should be regulated according to medical advice. Where this cannot be had we may lay down the following rules:—Two or three grains of quinine should be given in water containing a few drops of dilute sulphuric acid every four or six hours. .Sometimes a dose of opening medicine greatly helps the favourable action of the quinine. If the disease occurs in a very severe form, or in a tropical country, larger quan- tities of quinine will very likely be required; and the patient should begin to take it in the sweating stage. If the quinine does not soon take effect, it is probable that there is some internal congestion hindering the patient’s recovery, about which he should take advice. If he can- not get this he may take a purgative, put large mustard plaisters over the liver and spleen—that is to say, at and below the edge of the ribs—on both sides, and then resume the quinine There are other diseases in marshy countries which are very apt to have the feature of periodicity, and the treatment of them is often rendered much more suc- cessful by the addition of quinine to other medicines, as all who have had experience in this direction know.