25 CALISTHENICS. the strength not unduly taxed, no over-fatigue ensuing; for exhaustion makes people look worn “and old. The exertion must not be too violent, and the health and physical development of each pupil must be specially studied. Early morning or evening are the best times to select, but on no account immediately after a meal. The clothing should not be too warm, nor interfere in any way with the action of the limbs. It is a very usual plan in America and France, where the subject has been carefully studied, to wear a special costume, consisting of a loose blouse, with a sash at the waist, and Turkish trousers; or in place of the blouse, a Garibaldi bodice and skirt; dark blue serge with white or scarlet braid, or unglazed holland with the same sort of trimming, are most m favour, being both strong and light. Grey and red is another favourite mixture. The boots should be an easy lit, with low heels. Our illustration (Fig. i) will show that such a dress, while ensuring perfect ease and liberty of action to the wearer, is by no means unbecoming. Ample space will be required, and good ventilation ; a temperature of from 63° to 70°, with an abundant supply of fresh air. The teacher should be careful to give his directions in a clear, distinct voice, and to have the several exercises carried out with military precision. A musical accompaniment will best preserve the necessary rhythmus—the time, four or eight beats to a bar; failing this, the pupils should be taught to sing or count in concert, thereby keeping up their interest and zest. A Castanet will, failing better means, help to mark the time with or without music. The class should be ranged in lines, side by side, ac- cording to height, and sufficiently far apart for the several evolutions to be carried out without hindrance, each being repeated, so that every successive point is well learnt before proceeding to the next. As soon as children begin to study, their physical education should commence. The mind and body act on each other; there is more actual sympathy than we per- haps ever realise. A child whose restless activity, when left to run about at will in the easy freedom of childhood, has exerted every muscle unconsciously, suffers from a reaction when education is begun, and the necessary mental strain, however slight, becomes a part of its daily life ; a counteracting influence should be brought to bear without delay, and calisthenics should be commenced by early stages, taking care, above all things, to avoid ex- cessive fatigue. Calisthenics and gymnastics must not be confounded. We have not as yet quite made up our minds in England whether the latter are an altogether desirable part of a woman’s training. In America they are a recognised portion of the education, and gymnastic classes have been most successful. With us, it remains an open question whether the violent exertions entailed by gymnastics are really suited to or safe for women, to whom any undue strain is attended with so much danger. But as gymnastics cause a gradual increase in the strength and aptitude of every part of the human frame, so also calisthenics affect to bring about the same development of limbs and muscles, the same acquisition of health and vigour, by gentle means, imparting at the same time a grace not to be acquired in the gymnasium. A very excellent course of calisthenics may be under- taken without any paraphernalia at all, full directions for which, accompanied by illustrations, we will give in our next chapter. But we will now proceed to enumerate the various articles which have, from time to time, been used in the pursuit of such exercises. First and foremost, the chest-expander (Figs. 2 and 3), invented some thirty years or more ago ; this consists of an elastic band covered with ribbon, and attached to handles ; the expander is made of various sizes, and of different degrees of strength. It is intended to develop the action of the chest and lungs, to “ open the chest,” in fact, and to invigorate the system generally. Of late, its use has been much extended. Cost’s spine-director, as it is called (Fig. 4), being nothing more nor less than these chest-expanders in pairs, attached by a leather strap to the wall of the room, with or without horizontal bars between. The pupil goes through the exercises .in two different positions—facing the wall, or with his back to the wall, thus calling all the muscles into play at all points. Our illustrations give two kinds of backboards ; the one (Fig. 5) intended to be fastened behind the shoulders and waist with straps, the other (Fig. 6) varying in size according to the requirements of the pupil, the flat part reaching across the shoulders, the handles to be held in the hands, while a series of evolutions are gone through, These backboards are, however, going out of fashion, in favour of Cost’s exercising-plane, a reclining board, which can be regulated as to height; it is fitted with a movable cushion, the chest-expanders are attached by hooks, and the exercises are gone through in a reclining position, thus relieving the spine from any weight and strain, and proving an efficient cure to any weakness or curvature of the spine. Dumb-bells—perhaps one of the oldest of the calisthenic apparatus, dating back as far as the Romans—are now mostly used of quite light weight for ladies, the weighted ones, at most, not exceeding two pounds. By an ingenious contrivance they are sometimes made to open, as shown in the illustration (Fig. 7), and they can be made heavier when required. The bar-bell, which is of more recent date, consists of a two-handed dumb-bell, about three or four feet in length ; but though they are used by many calisthenic teachers, bar-bells more correctly appertain to the gymnasium, as do the horizontal bar, parallel bars, weight machine, balancing pole, &c. Wands, rods, or poles, made of a light smooth wood, that will not bend, and varying in length according to the height of the user, with which they should exactly correspond, will be found useful in a series of exercises for the shoulders. Clubs (Fig. 8), often made hollow, so that by means of a movable top they can be weighted when desired, and to any required extent, are used in pairs in a similar series of practice to the Indian sceptres, which are somewhat more ornamental. Lastly, we have the triangle (Fig. 9), formed of a bar of wood and two cords. This, attached to a pulley, can be raised and lowered at will, according to the height of the pupil, so that it may reach to about the knees when it is used. And now, having described our list of apparatus, let us turn to the more practical part of our subject. The first difficulty to be mastered is to learn to stand properly, and for this the pupil will carry out the following words of command ;— Attention—'3X this the heels must be placed in a line close together. Feet outwards—iht. toes turned out, forming almost, if not quite, a right angle. Knees joined—viz., straight together. Body erect—well to the front, inclining a little forward, that the weight may rest principally on the fore-part of the foot. Shoulders back—and square, and equal ; the shoulder- blades flat, so that the ear, knee, Jind ankle are all in a line. Arms down—hanging close to the body, the elbows quite in, but not bent towards the side.