SERVANTS OF THE HOUSE. 222 and other light labour of the kind may take till twelve or one o’clock, by which time a housemaid ought to be dressed for the day, fit to answer the door, wait on the family, and do needlework. Any work required of the servant after mid-day should be of a nature not to soil her garments. At dusk, it is a housemaid’s place to close all the windows at the upper part of the house. Before going to bed she has to turn down all the beds of the family, replenish ewers and water bottles, empty slops, and put everything in its place. If she has the charge of the plate-basket she carries it to the master’s room, together with hot water. Considerate employers will dispense with a housemaid’s attendance by ten o’clock, bearing in mind her morning duties. The usual plan of housemaid’s work, when no washing is done at home, is to clean the drawing-room thoroughly on Mondays, and one or two other rooms, according to their size, on each successive day during the week. Saturday should be a tolerably clear day from house- cleaning, beyond general dusting and setting in order for Sunday, cleaning plate, airing clean linen from the wash, &c. Any spare time left beyond these duties is generally allowed the housemaid for repairing or making her own clothes. If washing is done at home, the household work must necessarily be delayed in its course. The following directions are written for the guidance of housemaids. Sweeping and Dusting.—Before sweeping a room re- move all light articles of furniture out of the way, and cover up those which would be spoiled by dust. Draw back the window-curtains and pin them up as high as you can reach. Open the windows a few inches top and bottom, and shut the door. Turn the front of picture- frames to the wall, hang a sweeping-sheet over looking- glass frames, mirrors, &c. Then sprinkle tea-leaves, drained, but not dry, all over the carpet, especially in the corners. Sweep all carpets the way of the pile, whether it be in one direction or in another. If the fireplace is in use, all the ashes should be removed from the grate before sweeping the carpet. Whilst the dust settles, clean the grate. Having done so, tic a soft clean cloth over a hair broom and sweep the cornice and ceiling, also the walls. A turk’s-head broom answers better for this purpose, if you have one. In like manner sweep the curtain-poles, hangings, &c. In the absence of tea-leaves, some pieces of coarse brown paper, moistened with clean water, will answer the purpose. Without something of the kind you simply drive the dust from one part of the room to another. Dusting.—Remove all articles from the place to be dusted, and do not wipe round them. Put everything back in its place. Use a paintePs brush for dusting skirtings, and wipe glass and china ornaments with a fine soft cloth. White dusters are best for chintz furniture. A small feather broom should be used for raised china and gilt work. Never wipe picture frames with a duster. Carved woodwork should be dusted with a short-haired furniture brush, which likewise polishes. Pianoforte keys should be dusted with an old silk pocket-handkerchief, kept for the purpose. Scrubbing. — Neglected boards will not come clean without e.xtra pains. If of a very bad colour a mi.xture of three parts of powdered pipeclay with one of chloride of lime, about the thickness of cream, will be useful. This should be laid on to dry in some time before scrubbing. Or some white sand laid on the brush when scrubbing will remove the dirt. Grease will only yield to fuller’s earth spread on the spots tor several hours. Well kept boards, especially in country houses, require nothing but cold water. Soap and soda in hot water make boards black. In scrubbing, only arm’s length should be wetted at the time, taking care that the flannel is wrung each time dry of the soiled water. Good bass scrubbing- brushes are more cleansing than those of hair. Vul- canised india-rubber scrubbing-brushes are the best of all, but are rather expensive at the first outlay. To clean G?'ates.—It is a good plan to cover new grates with a coating of copal varnish lightly ; polishing after- wards with a black-lead brush will keep them in good condition with very little trouble. Once a year the varnish may be renewed, and the saving will be found considerable, both in black-lead and labour. Neglected grates are troublesome to restore. The only effectual way is to scrub off all the accumulation of dust and grease with a hard brush and soft soap. Afterwards go over them with some Brunswick black, to be had at most oil-shops. They will only require dusting afterwards for some time. Bright polished steel, if neglected, may be improved by mixing sweet oil to the thickness of cream with fine emery knife- powder. Cover the steel with this mixture, and, when dry, rub it off with a leather dipped in the same powder. For coarse bright metal a mixture of a little fine brick-dust with the knife powder and oil will answer. Burnished fire-irons and mouldings should never be touched with emery or sand-paper. If spotted with rust, the best plan is to get a “ buff”—i.e., a thick piece of soft leather fastened on a stick—as sold at tool warehouses. Dip the buff into a little oil, and afterwards into fine crocus powder, and rub the rusty places till they become bright. To clean Brass and Copper.—A mixture of oil and rotten-stone, applied with a piece of leather and after- wards rubbed bright, will give a good polish. Ormolu articles should be washed with plain soap and water, and polished with a wash leather. Lacqtcercd Work the same. All acids and soda are liable to destroy lacquer. To clean Marble.—Ordinary cleansing of marble may be done by simply washing the surface with warm soap and water, polishing afterwards with a fine dry cloth or leather. Stained and much soiled marble may be much improved by boiling equal parts of soft soap and powdered whitening, say four ounces of each with one ounce of soda. When thoroughly blended, lay the mixture on whilst hot, and let it remain for a day or so. Afterwards wash off with clean water, and dry with a leather. Grease stains may sometimes be removed by applying fuller’s earth in the usual manner. To wash Glass.—Cold water, in which a small quantity of soda has been dissolved, is the best mode of washing tumblers, wine glasses, &c. They should afterwards be turned down to drain, and then be polished with a soft, dry cloth. The same plan applies to chandelier glasses. If the dust is much worked into ground glass, a soft nail- brush should be used, polishing afterwards with a wash leather. Decanters are best cleaned with tea-leaves or pieces of brown paper saturated with water. Potato parings, sometimes recommended, may scratch the glass. A wash-leather is the best thing for washing and drying looking-glasses. Powdered blue and whitening if used are apt to get into the mouldings, and prove troublesome to remove. To clean Oil-cloth.—Sitting-rooms are now frequently bordered with oil-cloth, and consequently the cleaning falls to the housemaid. Scrubbing oil-cloth with soda and soap is a destructive process, and there is no necessity for doing so, if ordinary care be used to keep the oil-cloth clean by daily sweeping and dusting. If any spots appear they are easily removed by rubbing with a little oil laid on with flannel. When it is necessary to wash oil-cloth it should be gone over with a flannel moistened with milk. If the latter is not easily to be had, a small quantity of olive oil added to weak table-beer will answer. This should be rubbed in with a flannel, a small space at a time, and dried with a wash leather. To clean Paint.—There is one description of paint which a housemaid should be careful not to clean. This