27 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. HajJs out—zxi^ resting lightly on the dress, the palms turned a little to the front, the thumb stretched out beside the forefinger. ^ Head the whole figure erect and square, stretcned to its full length, the back of the head slightly raised, the waist and chin drawn in, the bust advanced, the spine straight. Eyes front—looking straight at some object about twenty feet forward. Mouth breathing through the nose. We will in our next chapter proceed to give a course of free exercises adapted to the training and development of the different parts of the body, and so called because no apparatus of any kind is required; all of them may, therefore, by means of the accompanying illustrations, be easily carried out by the reader. COOKERY.—II. SIMPLE RECIPES {continuedfrom p. 6). Potato Bread. — Boil the required quantity of mealy potatoes in their skins ; drain, dry, and then peel them. Crush them on a board with a rolling-pin, till they are a stiff paste without lumps. Then mix your yeast with them, and flour equal in quantity to the potatoes. Add water enough to make the whole into dough, and knead the mass well. When risen, put into a gentle oven. Do not close the door immediately, but bake a little longer than for ordinary bread. Without these precautions the crust will be hard and brittle, while the inside still re- mains moist and pasty. Other floiu's can be in like manner made into bread with a mixture of potatoes, but they are best cooked as cakes on the hearth, or in the way given below for potato cake. In Scotland oatmeal is frequently mixed with wheaten flour in making pakes, and in the west of Ireland with maize flour in making stirabout. Potato Cake.—Y&iy acceptable to children at supper, especially if they have had the fun of seeing it made. Cold potatoes, if dry and floury, will serve for this. If you have none, boil some, as for potato bread. Crush them with butter and salt; mix in a small proportion of flour (wheaten, oaten, rye, or maize) and a little yeast (the last may be omitted at pleasure), and with milk work the whole to the consistency of very firm dough. Roll it out to the thickness of an inch and a half or two inches. Cut it out the size of your frying-pan, the bottom of which you smear with grease, and in it lay your cake, after flouring it all over. Bake, covered with a plate, on the trivet of your stove, over a gentle fire, or better on the hearth, when turf or wood is burnt. Shake and shift it a little from time to time, to prevent burning. When half done, turn it, and cover with a plate again. Other cakes of unfermented pastes may be baked in the same way. Light Du}>iplings, steamed.—These, as well as light dumplings boiled, are, in reality, nothing but bread boiled or steamed instead of being baked. In light dumpling countries, housewives buy, in the course of the morning, so many pennyworths of dough at the baker’s, and keep it warm and covered till wanted, which saves their having to make bread themselves. Steaming dumplings is by far the neatest way, besides saving an extra saucepan. The dumpling is cooked in the steamer on the top of the saucepan, while the bit of meat and the vegetables' are boiled below. The dough receives a little extra kneading, is rolled into the shape of a good-sized apple, is dusted all over with flour, and then put into the steamer. As the dumplings swell in cooking, they should neither touch each other nor the sides of the steamer. The water must be kept boiling all the while. When done, their outsides are smooth and dry. Set them on the table the minute they are taken out of the steamer. Cold light dumpling, steamed, sliced across, toasted, and buttered, is not a bad substitute for muffins. Boiled light dumplings are prepared in the same manner, and are thrown into boiling water, which must be kept boiling all the while. They take less time to cook— from twenty minutes to half an hour—than steamed ones do. The outside of boiled dumplings is apt to be a little sloppy. The best sauce to eat with these is good loast-meat dripping, with the fat and the brown gravy mixed together. Treacle is also used. A nice way of serving it is to put a bit of butter into the treacle, and then pour a little boiling water over them, stirring till they are mixed together. Equally approved is Matrimony Sauce.—Put a bit of butter into cold water in a saucepan ; dust in a little flour, stinfing one way till they are completely mixed ; then add some brown sugar and a table-spoonful or so of vinegar. Continue stirring till it boils ; pour into a basin, and serve with your dumplings. Hard., or Suffolk, Dumplings are unleavened dumplings, and as indigestible as unleavened bread. They are nothing but flour and water made into a stiff paste, with a little salt. This is rolled into balls as big as one’s fist, floured outside, thrown into boiling water, and boiled three-quarters of an hour. Some housewives (when there is no gravy to eat with them) put a little bit of butter in the middle. They make a dish of eatable cannon- balls, each enclosing a spoonful of oil. Drop Dumplings.—Wdks. a thick batter with flour, milk, salt, eggs, and yeast. Set it for an hour in a warm place, to rise. Throw table-spoonfuls of this, one by one, into a saucepan of water boiling galloping. When done, let them drain on your slice an instant as you take them I up, and serve with gravy, matrimony sauce, or sugar and butter. They are nearly, if not quite, the same as the popular Bavarian Datnpf Knbdeln. Gingerbread.—Mix well together two pounds of flour, half a pound of butter oiled, one ounce of ground ginger, and a table-spoonful of baking powder ; then stir in two pounds of treacle. Bake in a slow oven, putting it in as soon as made, and watching it carefully afterwards. Mrs. Smith’s Gingerbread—Beat up well together one pound of treacle, one pound of flour, half a pound of oiled butter, two ounces of candied citron-peel, and one ounce of powdered ginger. Put it into shallow tins, and set it into the oven immediately. The addition of powdered cinnamon and a little honey to the above ingredients makes a very nice and striking variety of gingerbread. Egg-Powder Cake.—Egg-powder, as it is called, is a vegetable compound, intended to serve as a substitute for eggs, to four of which one penny packet professes to be equivalent in cake-making, and sufficient to add to two pounds of flour. Some cooks, however, think it best to use it in addition to eggs. The pow-der is first mixed with the flour, and then water or milk is added, for plum, batter, and other puddings, cakes, pancakes, &c. For a cake: mix well together one quartern of flour, half a pound of butter, two ounces of sweet pork lard, three- quarters of a pound of well-washed currants, half a pound of sugar, two packets of egg-powder, and three eggs. You may add mixed spices, grated nutmeg, and candied citron-peel, to your taste. When these are thoroughly stirred up together, with enough milk to bring the whole to a proper consistency, butter the inside of your cake-tin, put the cake in, and bake immediately. The top of the cake may be glazed with beat-up egg. Cheap Cake.—While making bread, take some 01 the dough after it has begun to rise. To every pound of dough knead in an ounce or more of butter or dripping, a quai'ter of a pound of coarse sugar, some grated nut- meg, and either a quarter of a pound of currants and chopped i'aisins or a few caraway seeds. When your