COOKERY. 232 COOKERY.—XIV. KITCHEN REQUISITES. It may surprise many readers to learn that in France, which enjoys the greatest reputation for its cookery throughout the whole of many extensive regions, a simple wood fire, composed of logs lighted on the hearth, and supported at one or at each end by “dogs” (cheneis), is made to cook most excellent dinners, not only of much variety, but even in places where num.erous guests have to be pro- vided for, as in inns and like establishments. A wood fire on the hearth makes capital roasts by means of horizontal spits turned by clock-work. The caldron, supported on a tri- pod, or hung from the pot-hook—a complicated contrivance called a crhuaillere — furnishes broths, soups, and boils vegetables. Stew- pans at the skirts of the fire concoct dainty small side-dishes. The glowing embers, drawn on one side, serve to broil chops and steaks, and to make any sauce that is quickly dished up. Tarts and pastry, cakes and pates, are baked in the oven used for bread. Even in Paris, almost all the rotisseurs, who sell roast meat and fowls either whole or in portions, and who often also carry on the trade of restaurateurs, do all their roasting on hori- zontal spits before wood fires. And where the fire is small in appear- ance, when it is kept up all day long, and the spit in front of it is never empty, it is astonishing what a quantity of food it can be made to cook in the course of twelve hours. The great merit of the old English range is its capability of cooking large joints perfectly, roasts espe- cially. In a baker’s oven a large joint is spoilt; in the oven of a cooking-stove it is apt to be burnt, or unequally done. An open range, extensible at the sides, will roast anything well, from a spit- ful of larks to a haunch of veni- son or a baron of beef. For a nu- merous house- hold requiring few dishes, and those solid — such as the twelve or fourteen pound pike boiled whole, the haunch of four-year-old mutton, the potatoes and greens, and the huge plum-pudding—the open range answered admirably. It has done good service in its day, and if circumstances induce us to put it on one side, we should be unjust not to mention it, although it was a great consumer of coals; also the circular swinging trivets at its sides often supplied excellent melted butter and first-rate mashed potatoes. The open range is not a jack-of-all-trades, but it is master of several much-approved specialities. For instance, it admits of roasting with a jack and a spit, which makes the best of all possible roasts, especially with cradle or basket spits, which roast a joint without piercing it. With very little assistance the meat bastes itself, whereas with the bottle- jack there is a constant tendency to drain it of its juices, which no basting can completely remedy. The chimney of an open range re- quires frequent sweeping ; but it is very much letter to sweep it often than to have the con- tents of a frying-pan suddenly spoiled by a downfall of soot. For middle-sized families of modest preten- sions, who prefer comfort to show, and variety in their meals to monotonous abundance, the most useful apparatus is the cooking stove, of which there are dififerent forms made both by English and foreign manufacturers. A very good pattern is perhaps that represented in our illustration. Some of the advantages of these ranges may be enumerated : they require no brick-work to fix them ; roast, bake, boil, and steam with one fire; carry off all heat and smell from the kitchen; can be fixed in a very few hours after the fire- place is cleared out ready for them; and being quite detached and independent, can be removed when re- quired, in the event of a change of residence. The pattern illustrated is made from four to six feet wide, and has a wrought-iron oven on one side of the fire, with movable shelves, wrought-iron roaster on the other side of the fire, with movable shelves, double drip- ping-pan and meat- stand, thoroughly ven- tilated by means of air-tubes and valves (by closing which the roaster becomes an excellent addi- tional oven); strong wrought- iron back boiler, capable of heat- ing water for baths, bedrooms or the nursery, or of supplying steam for steam- closet and steam kettles ; gridiron for broiling ; hook, key, and raker; dampers, register door, &c. The top consists of a hot plate, on which boiling, stewing, &c., may be done. The stove shown in Fig. 9 is very convenient for broiling chops and steaks, but requires the use of char- coal, a few handfuls of which are spread beneath the gridiron, and lighted. In a few minutes the fire is ready l-'S- -J. 3- Fig. 4.