THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC. i8o 2. Expenditure.—It should be shown that the value of the “ loading,” or of the proportion thereof, whatever it may be that is reserved, is sufficient to cover expenses of management, and to provide for the bonuses which in the present day the assured insist upon having. If the expen- diture exceeds the “ loading,” the office cannot be solvent. The working expenses in twelve first-class offices vary from seven and a half to ten and tliree-quarters per cent, on the premium income of the year. 3. Amalga?nations.—It would be satisfactory, as a rule, to find that there had been none, though cases may arise in which an amalgamation between two companies might have taken place to the advantage of both, provided no undue amount were paid for the business. 4. Caution in the Acceptance of Risks, so that the assumed rate of mortality is not exceeded. This requires very careful watching, as will be apparent when we state that the mortality experience recently collected and pub- lished by the Institute of Actuaries (which embodies the experience of twenty important assurance companies, Tanging over 160,426 lives), shows that the duration of life, even among the selected lives upon which assurances have been effected, differs very little, at all events, from that shown by the Carlisle table of mortality, a table in very general use among life assurance companies. The reason why the benefit of selection (from which at first sight it would appear that the office must derive great advantage, all the lives being subjected to a strict medical examination) is not greater than it appears in fact by these tables to be, is probably that there is always a contrary influence at work against the company to induce the acceptance of lives known to be doubtful, if not altogether diseased, and the unsoundness of- which the company’s medical examiner cannot always detect. 5. Safe Investment of the assets, at a remunerative rate .of interest. 6. CarefulManagemefitg&riQXdiWy, by an efficient actuary. GOLD AND SILVER MARKS. Many articles of gold, and nearly all of silver, and even electro-plate, bear certain marks, some acquaintance with which everybody ought to possess. The marks upon the precious metals are called “hall marks”—probably because, in London, they are put on at the Goldsmiths’ Hall. Only one quality of silver is hall-marked, viz., standard silver, in the proportion of eleven ounces and two pennyweights of pure silver and eighteen penny- weights of alloy to every twelve ounces troy weight. With gold, the case is different, and a person may pur- chase hall-marked gold of many values from about eighty shillings per ounce, although gold worth less than about one pound eleven shillings and sixpence per ounce is very seldom marked. In 1869 the Goldsmiths’ Com- pany in London discontinued marking gold chains of in- ferior quality ; and gold watch cases must be of eighteen carat gold. Some foreign watches marked as eighteen carat gold, have the cases in part made of silver or other inferior metal. In England also, sometimes, rings marked as gold of superior quality are partly of inferior gold. This is the result of fraud : unprincipled makers some- times taking rings to be hall-marked, after which they cut out the portion marked and insert it in rings of lower value. This is also done with silver, but to a less extent. Assuming that articles bearing the hall marks of the United Kingdom are what they profess to be, we will describe those marks. They are of five sorts, as follow :— I. T\schnll mark proper, denoting the place where the articles were stamped. For Birmingham there is an anchor ; for London, a leopard’s head ; for Chester, a dagger and three wheat sheaves ; for Sheffield, a crown; for York, five lions’ heads and a cross ; for Newcastle-on- Tyne, three castles; for Exeter, a castle with three towers; for Edinburgh, a castle and lion ; for Glasgow, a tree and a fish with a ring in its mouth; for Dublin, a figure of Hibernia. 2. The duty mark, which is the head of the reigning monarch, and shows that duty has been paid. 3. The standard mark is, for England, a lion passant; for Edinburgh, a thistle; for Glasgow, a lion rampant; for Ireland, a crowned harp. Gold is also marked with figures, as 22 for gold of twenty-two carats, 18 for gold of eighteen carats, 9 for gold of nine carats; and these figures are the only guide the purchaser has to the quality of the metal. 4. The makeds mark is the initials of the maker in common capital letters. 5. The date mark, which varies yearly, and shows when the stamps were impressed. By this mark, therefore, the age of an article can be ascertained. It will be sufficient to give the explanations of the date marks of the Gold- smiths’ Company for two hundred years. 1656 to 1675, old English capitals ; 1676 to 1695, small Roman letters ; 1696 to 1715, the court alphabet; 1716 to 1735, Roman capitals; 1736 to 1755, small Roman letters; 1756 to t775» old English capitals; 1776 to 1795, small Roman letters ; 1796 to 1815, Roman capitals ; 1816 to 1835, small Roman letters ; 1836 to 1855, old English capitals ; 1856 to 1875, old English small letters. The head of the sovereign will aid in explaining the dates. Inasmuch as many articles of jewellery go into the market without any of the above marks, the public have no guarantee beyond the word of the dealer. Under the circumstances, it is desirable that people should take the advice of a leading manufacturer, who says they ought— I, to learn the various qualities and prices of gold ; 2, in- quire at time of purchase what quality of gold they are buying ; 3, have the quality plainly stated on an invoice ; and 4, pay in proportion to quality. THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC.-XL BELL-HANGING. The simplest way to look into the mystery of bells and bell-hanging, as known in ordinary houses, will be perhaps to trace a wire from the pull at one end to the bell at the other. Fig. 68 is a diagram of a bell-pull such as is usually found at the side of the fireplace, and in this, as in nearly all, the principle of action is leverage. The lever A is pivoted on the screw c, and has on its upper end a knob, B, to take hold of. The nose of the screw is prolonged and screwed to take on the ornamental plate which hides the working part, both plate and knob being of various patterns and qualities, according to the situation. Fastened to A, and also hanging on C, is the drum p, round a part of which runs a flat chain, of which there is just enough to encircle about one-half of the drum, to which it is fastened on the top. The lever is only free to move between the gap in the ring, or about a quarter of a circle. This movement, however, is quite sufficient. A small hole at G in the ring, allows the chain to move out or in with each movement of the handle. The wire, w, is fastened to the lowest link, and proceeds to the crank, H, the form of which is that of a simple triangle hinging on a pivot at the apex, I, the opposite comers having holes to receive the wires. In the course of the wire, if the bell is a long way off, and not in a direct line, perhaps several of these cranks will be found, and they also vary in form according to the direction of the motion required. Should the wire have to traverse long distances horizontally, it is passed through small staples of galvanised wire to prevent its weight from dragging it down. The wire used is copper, and the price per ounce about 2d.; but in large quantities it is much cheaper. The hanging of the bell itself is shown at Fig. 67. A is a flat brass frame, which fastens to the wall, and having a lever arm, B, pivoted on it, to the