74 LIFE ASSURANCE. be to restore warmth and vitality to the sufferer, and this can be best done by wrapping her in a blanket, and placing her in bed (or before a fire, if it is winter), with hot bottles or bricks so arranged about the legs and trunk as to impart warmth without interfering with the burnt surface. In the case of a. child (and of an adult too, if conveniences are at hand), a warm bath is at once the most soothing and appropriate treatment, since the warm water (the temperature of which must be carefully maintained at 90°) soaks off all the charred clothing, &c., and leaves the burns in the most healthy condition for dressing. At Vienna, baths are so contrived that patients suffering from burns or obstinate skin diseases, can spend days or even weeks in them, and anywhere, with care and attention, the temperature of a bath could be kept up for some hours, at least. In addition to external warmth, a severely-burnt patient will bear the administration of some hot cordial drink, and then, pending the arrival of a medical man, no harm can possibly be done by enveloping the burnt parts with cotton wadding. Burns are dangerous, not merely from their immediate effects, but from the complications which are apt to fol- low in their train. Thus, in children especially, inflam- mation of the lungs is very apt to follow a burn about the trunk ; and again, ulceration of the bowel is found to be a frequent cause of death in these cases. The friends of a patient who has been burnt should, therefore, be careful to call the attention of the medical man in attendance to any cough or difficulty of breathing on the one hand, or to the occurrence of any diarrhoea on the other. With the best care, burns are, undoubtedly, very fatal accidents, and, as prevention is better than cure, it may not be out of place to urge the necessity for wire fire-guards over all fire-places to which children or females have access. Men, from the nature of their clothing, are much less liable to burns than women, unless, indeed, they indulge in the pernicious practice of “ reading in bed ” by candle-light. Even when the first dangers of a severe burn are surmounted, the patient will have much to undergo in the healing of the wound, and here a fresh danger comes in—that of the contraction of the tissues in healing, so as to leave great deformity behind. Patients and their friends are sometimes more to blame than their attendant for terrible contractions of the neck, arms, &c., frequently seen after burns; and they do not carry out fully the surgeon’s instructions, from not understanding their importance, and, being intent only upon healing-up the wound, cannot understand the neces- sity for care and attention. It may be laid down as an axiom that the quicker a wound heals, the more it con- tracts, and it is evident, therefore, that the slower a wound can be made to heal, the less likely it is to leave unsightly contractions behind. In order to prevent contractions, it is often necessary to confine the patient to an irk- some position, so as, e.g., to stretch the neck, or to apply a splint to keep out the arm? and these incon- veniences should be cheerfully borne, when they are ordered by a competent medical man. It may not be inappropriate here to give a few hints as to the best method of extinguishing the flames, when a woman’s or child’s dress has unfortunately caught fire. If the sufferer has presence of mind enough to throw herself on the ground and roll over and over until the by-standers can envelop her with some thick and non- inflammable covering, her chances of escape from serious injury will be much increased ; but, unfortunately, the terror of the moment ordinarily overcomes every other feeling, and the sufferer rushes into the open air—the very worst thing she could do. The first thing for a by-stander to do is to provide himself with some non-inflammable article with which to envelop the patient, and a coat or cloak—or, better, a table-cloth or drugget—will answqyr the purpose. Throwing this around the sufferer, he shouldi if possible, lay her on the ground and then rapidly cover over and beat out all the fire, keeping on the covering until every spark is extinguished. To attempt to extinguish fire by water is useless, unless the whole body of flame can be put out at one blow ; and for one lightly-clad female to attempt to succour another, when other persons are at hand, is simply to imperil two lives instead of one. In the case of a house on fire, it is to be remembered that death is more frequently the result of suffocation from smoke than from contact with flame, and every effort should be made to reach the open air by crawling along the floor (where there is usually breathing space) so as to reach a window, or, if necessary, by enveloping the head in a thick shawl to exclude the smoke while making a rush along a passage or down a staircase. LIFE ASSURANCE.—I. Following up the remarks contained in the article on “Ways and Means,” in a previous number (page 39), we now proceed to explain the principles upon which life insurance, or more strictly life assurance, depends. It is usual to speak of the hisw'ance of any doubtful event, such as fire or loss at sea, and of the assurance of an event certain to happen, as death. The theory of life assurance depends upon calculations based upon the uniform mortality which has been observed to prevail among large numbers of individuals, and upon the increase of money at compound interest. From the death registers, mortality tables are con- structed which tell us how many persons out of a certain number living at each age, die annually. From these tables the actuary computes what money payment —usually a sum or premium paid annually in advance throughout life—is sufficient to provide for the payment of a fi.xed sum, say ^100, at death. Several tables are in use for this purpose, of which the principal are the Northampton, the Carlisle, and the English life tables. The following is a simple illustration of the manner in which the premium for a life assurance is deduced. Supposing, according to any table of mortality, that out of 500 persons, all aged forty years, five die in the year, and that it is required to provide ^500 for the families of those who die, the contribution of each of the 500 will clearly be a five-hundredth part of £^00^ or £\. In practice, how- ever, the premiums being invested at compound interest, a , less sum than £i would be required, viz., such a sum as invested at interest for the year would produce at the end of the year. An addition to the net premium thus deduced is then made by the office for the expenses of management, and to provide for the bonuses, the nature of which will be hereafter explained. Upon these two simple principles of mortality and interest, the whole theory of life assurance depends, and upon them contracts have been undertaken by the different companies in the United Kingdom alone amounting pro- bably to ;,d4oo,ooo,ooo sterling. Life assurance is an institution which has now been in operation for 170 years, the first company dating from 1706, and, notwithstanding the large amount of business transacted, it has not been, we may say, until 1S69 that discredit has been cast upon life assurance companies. It is almost essential for us to make a passing allu- sion to this matter, as a temporary panic appears to have then taken possession of the public in consequence of certain appeals to the Court of Chancery, which resulted in the compulsory winding-up of one large company. It cannot, accordingly, be too clearly understood that the collapse in that case arose mainly from numerous ill- considered amalgamations with unsuccessful companies.