196 COOKERY. earthen vessel, over a gentle fire, mix two pounds of resin with a quarter of a pound of yellow bees-wax or a couple of ounces of tallow, to soften the composition ; a tallow dip answers perfectly, as it is better the wax should be a little too soft than a little too brittle. When well com- bined let it cool so as to be only just liquid, when you may dip the necks of the bottles in it up to the rim round the neck. It maybe coloured with yellow ochre, red lead, washerwoman’s blue ball, or ivory black. Great care is requisite not to dip the bottles in the wax until it has cooled sufficiently, for if too hot it will cause the necks of the bottles to split. Pickled Walnuts.—The great point with these is to gather the green nuts at the exact time, neither too soon nor too late. A few sunshiny days, by solidifying the carbon imbibed by the tree, will make all the difference. If the nuts are gathered too young they will melt in the pickle : if too old, the shells will be formed, and will resist the dissolving action of the vinegar for years. The test of their fitness is when a large pin (not a needle) can without difficulty be thrust through the walnuts in any direction ; if it cannot, they are too forward. Of the two, it is better to be a little before time than a little after time. In the former case, the walnuts are good so long as they last ; in the latter, they are often quite useless. After gathering, wipe the green walnuts, one by one, with a coarse cloth which you are not afraid of staining. Lay them in the sun, or at a distance from a slow fire, two or three hours to dry, turning them occasionally. This will cause them to absorb the pickle more readily. Then put them into a brine of salt and water, strong enough to lloat an egg, remembering that a stale egg floats in weaker brine than a fresh one. Turn them about in this brine once a day, with a wooden spoon, and let them remain there several days, or a week, till they are quite black all over. When their complexion is what could be wished, take them out of the brine, put them, in single layers, in sieves, or on coarse sackcloth, to dry and drain in the sun; turn them once or twice, handling them gently. WTen tolerably dry, arrange them in the pickle-jars, or wide-mouthed bottles, in which they are to be kept. Tut the requisite quantity of vinegar to cover them in a well-tinned saucepan, with the approved spices—whole pepper, bruised ginger, cloves, mace, &c. When wanted very hot, capsicums and scraped horse-radish are added, 'but they destroy the natural flavour of the pickle. Set the saucepan on the fire, and as soon as the vinegar begins •to boil, take it off. When nearly cool pour it over the walnuts, giving to each jar its share of spice, and covering them completely. When cold, tie down the jars with moistened bladder, or cork the bottles, and dip their heads and necks in the mixture of resin, &c., for sealing them hermetically, already given. If a few pickled walnuts are wanted for speedy use, pierce each one throughout with a needle, crosswise and lengthwise, before putting them into the jar, and pour the vinegar and spice over them hot, after warming the jar to pre- sent it cracking. Walnuts not only make a pleasant pickle to be eaten with cold roast meat, but a little bit, say the quarter of a walnut, crushed smooth, with a des- sert-spoonful of the vinegar, greatly relieves a hash of mutton, beef, goose, duck, or wild fowl, besides improving the colour of the gravy. Pickled Onions.—With pickles, as with every other object in life, it is well to make up your mind what you wish for. Some like pickled onions soft, some hard and nutty ; they arc pretty when white, and bottled in colourless vinegar, but often taste of nothing but of that and hot spice ; in brown vinegar, with less fiery condiments, you can taste as well as sec that you are eating pickled onions. Gather the onions dry; expose them to sun and air for a fortnight or so. Peel them without too much waste. For soft pickled onions (brown), throw them into boiling salt and water; after another boil up take them off the fire, and let stand till nearly cool. Drain well on a napkin, put them in jars or bottles, and pour over them hot vinegar with spice boiled in it. When they are cold, it will be well to fill up with vinegar if required, and cork or tie down close. For hard, hot, white pickled onions, after peeling, salt them, and leave them there two or three days. Take out, drain, pack in bottles, and pour over them white vinegar or pyroligneous acid, in which plenty of capsicums have been steeped. Pickled Red Cabbage.—Cut the cabbage, leaving it with a stalk, in dry weather ; remove all the outer leaves, till there is nothing remaining except the central hard ball which you mean to pickle. Hang the cabbages singly, if there be more than one, by the stalks, in a current of air in the shade. A draughty passage answers well. At the end of a fortnight or three weeks, take down the cabbages, and shred them with a carving-knife to the proper thin- ness, into a shallow earthen vessel. Some housekeepers then sprinkle the cabbage with plenty of salt, and leave it in it several days. The result is that the salt draws out a good deal of the sap of the cabbage (and with it the natu- ral flavour), leaving room in the sap-vessels for the vinegar to replace it. It is not this salt, but the vinegar and spices, which make the pickle keep. We ourselves do not salt pickled red cabbage, but put a little salt into the vinegar instead. Pack the shredded (and salted) cabbage in the jars as tightly as possible. Boil the spices in the vinegar, and pour them over the cabbage hot. A small quantity of cabbage for immediate use may be boiled in the vinegar three or four minutes. Those who like red cabbage Jir7n m substance, should pour the vinegar over it cold. PickledFrc7ich Beans.—These, which we consider among the poorest of pickles, more frequently appear in company as mixed pickles, than alone. They are associated with cauliflower sprigs, radish pods, gherkins, small green cap- sicums, and others. Gather them young, leaving a bit of the stalk, and not pinching off the pointed end. Salt them in brine, drain them, pack them in their jar with bruised ginger and other spices, and pour scalding hot vinegar over them. Those who have gardens do well, towards the close of summer, to keep an 07nni7i77i-gathe7'U7n pickle-pot containing vinegar, in which to throw any of the articles which make up mixed pickle, as they become fit. When the collection is large enough to fill a jar, it can be packed therein in approved disorder; hot vinegar, with or without spice (for several pickles, as tarragon, nasturtiums, and capsicums, require no spice), can be poured over the medley, and the jar made air-tight for future use. Note that when a mixed pickle jar is opened, the cauliflower and the French beans are sure to be left the last. Pickled Radish Pods.—In most gardens a few radishes remain which have grown too big and sticky to eat. Let them stand, if not for seed at least for pickle. Gather the pods when the seeds within them are full grown but soft —i.e., in the condition of green peas. Pour over them scalding salt and water, and let them stand in it till cold ; then take out, and drain. When drained, pack them in their bottle, and pour over them hot spiced vinegar. Tie down the cover provisionally. In a few days a good deal of vinegar will have been absorbed by the pods, and must be replaced by more. When there is no more shrinking of the vinegar, the jar may be corked or tied down for good. In our next paper we shall go on with the subject of pickles and preserves, and having thus come to an end of our recipes in plain cookery, we shall proceed to the more advanced branches of the art, commencing with a list and description of the implements which are most necessary in a kitchen.