273 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC.—XV. GAS {continued from p. 250). The iron service-pipes are made in lengths of from two to ten or twelve feet, and are of wrought-iron welded over on a mandrel; one end bears a socket and the other a screw, the interior of the socket being the converse of the screw. The sizes and pitches of these screws are now universally the same for each given diameter of pipe, so that any screw is sure to fit into any socket. The sockets are either straight, plain, or diminishing, for the purpose of uniting two pipes of different diameters. Where it is necessary to turn corners, either bends or elbow sockets are used, which may be also plain or diminishing, and when one pipe branches out from another, cross or tee-sockets are required. In connections of iron tubing all that is necessary to be done is to smear the screwed end of the pipe with some thin white-lead, and then screw it forcibly into the socket with the gas-tongs, two pairs of which are used at one time—one to hold, the other to screw up. These tongs are constructed with long handles, and are so contrived that almost any amount of grip can be obtained with them. Each different size of pipe requires two pairs of tongs, there being only .a slight adjustment possible. Thejunction of iron and composi- tion-pipe is effected by means of unions of brass, which screw into the iron pipes and to which the composition pipes are soldered by means of a blow- pipe. The junc- tions between these latter pipes and the bracket or pendant bur- ners are made by means of small brass pipes called nose- pieces, which are bent into various forms, as required. The horizontal pipes should be laid between the floor and the ceiling, and the boards laid over them should be screwed down again to make the access to them, when required, as easy as possible. A slight inclination towards the main-pipes is advisable to prevent the accumulation of water formed from the gas by condensation ; and this inclination allows any water so formed to run down to the lowest part of the service, where a syphon should be fixed to receive it. The best position for this syphon is at the bottom of the rising maiti, or upright pipe, communicating from the lower floors to the ones above. The rising main is often fixed outside the house—a plan which is advisable, except when the gas-pipes are fixed as a part of the build- ing of a house, as such a plan prevents a great deal of tness and expense, with knocking ceilings about. Fig, 75 shows the arrangement. A is the pipe from the 18—N.S. Fig. 78. Fig. 79- meter, B is the rising main, C the syphon, which is a short piece of the same pipe, in which the water can accumulate, at the bottom of which is a small tap to let it out when the bobbing or jumping of the gas shows the water to have risen to such a height as to obstruct the passage of the gas. This will not occur more than once or twice a year in ordinary cases. Where a wet meter is used it will happen perhaps a little oftener, the gas absorbing mois- ture during its passage through the water. The methods of fastening up the pendants, or brackets, carrying the burners, must of course be suggested by the necessities of each individual case. We can only say that brackets may be securely screwed to the walls by means of wooden plugs driven into the brickwork ; but a very good plan is to take out a com- plete brick and insert a piece of wood of the same size into the hole, and plaster up again. Pendants must not be fixed to the joists if it can be avoided, but to a small cross-beam. We will now describe the construction of a balanced pendant two-light chandelier, and show how, by keeping the water- chamber full, the es- cape of gas is pre- vented, while the chandelier may be pulled down or up with perfect ease. In Fig. 76, A shows the pipe from the floor above, which usually comes through a cen- tral flower or orna- ment. This pipe expands into the chamber B, which has a hole in the bottom. Accurately fitted to this hole is the ball C, which is the top of, and pierced by, a down pipe D. The lower part of the ball is ground to fit the hole in the cup B, perfectly air- tight ; but leak- age sometimes occurs at the joint, when the heat has dried up the grease. A little tallow smeared round and worked in will stop it. A frame, 11, carrying two pulleys, H H, and a length of pipe down to K, complete the top and fixed part of the chandelier. The cup and ball, B c, enable the arms of the chandelier to be twisted round and give considerable play and freedom of motion. The lower part, or chandelier proper, consists of a small inner tube E, small enough to slide up through D, which communicates with the burners, J j, and a larger tube F, into which T> will slide. F is closed at the lower part and filled with water, which effectually prevents the gas from escaping. The lower part is exactly counterpoised by the weights G G, which hang over the pulleys H H by chains. These weights are often made hollow, with lead or shot run in to make the balancing more exact. The water in F will, in time, become evaporated, and will need renewing. Evaporation is prevented by a teaspoonful of oil being