CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 163 There are numerous organic impurities, both of animal and vegetable matter, existing in water, which have their source in the percolations of water through cultivated lands, and consists of deposits of sewage matter. Their presence can only be detected by an analytical chemist, excepting when it is found that putrefaction readily com- mences if the cistern or reservoir be covered. Matters in a state of decay possess but little, if any, oxygen; and if deprived of what they have, they form them- selves into new life; but if once the air be freely ad- mitted, the process often stops, and the deleterious matter passes off in gases. Thames water, when it is taken to sea in casks, soon becomes intolerably putrescent from the gases generated in it; but on rocking them, and exposing it to the atmosphere, the water becomes per- fectly sweet and wholesome. All these organic impuri- ties (that is, those which arise from the growth and decay of vegetable and animal life) can be rendered harmless or be consumed by the filtration of water through animal char- coal. Wood charcoal, according to Professor Frankland, has not this property. Dr. Bernays, on the contrary, asserts that wood charcoal removes both smell and taste from foul water, and it is therefore well adapted to serve as a filter. It is a well-known fact that meat which has turned putrid from heat or a thunder-storm, if it be boiled for ten minutes in boiling water, with a lump of charcoal, is thereby rendered as good as ever. Dr. Edward Rivers agrees with Professor Frankland in stating that “charcoal obtained from animal matter alone appears to possess the power of removing matter from solution in water to any extent. Wood charcoal has, however, been very much used, but with the result, consequently, of only aiding in mechanically filtering the water.” But even animal charcoal after a time loses most of its purifying power, and when this is the case it will have to be renewed. In a lecture—one of a series—delivered by Professor Frankland at the Royal Institution, he stated that lead, poisonous as it was, did not contaminate hard water, and that “ soft water, circulating through leaden pipes, is soon entirely protected by the formation of an in- soluble coating on the interior of the pipesthat “tinning the interior of the pipes is dangerous, inas- much as abrasions would lead to the formation of a voltaic circuit, and a more rapid solution of the lead.” Dr. Bernays affirms that spring water may be kept with safety in leaden cisterns, provided the covers be of wood, unleaded; otherwise the pure water which rises in vapour, and settles in drops on the lid, would, if it were of lead, slowly dissolve the latter in small quanti- ties, which would then drop into the water. It appears, then, that water is best contained in un- covered cisterns, because the air prevents or annihilates putrefaction; that the cisterns or reservoirs should not contain much more water than is needed for daily con- sumption, or it becomes stagnant from the want of oxygen, and its organic matter putrefies ; that putrid water can be rendered sweet and wholesome by filtering it through animal charcoal, made by strongly heating bones in vessels from which air is excluded ; though, according to Dr. Bernays, simple wood charcoal will purify water equally as well. Water should never be allowed to stagnate; the air should be admitted to it freely, by leaving exposed cis- terns and reservoirs uncovered. Water which is hard from excess of carbonate of lime (chalk) can be rendered soft by long and fast boiling, by sulphate of lime (gypsum), by carbonate of soda, or by potash added twenty-four hours before the water is needed, or by exposing it in shallow tanks two or three days to the air. The remedy being so simple, persons living where the mountain-limestone or chalk abounds need not use hard water, nG* need they drink it where gypsum is found. Nitrates—that is, combinations of nitric acid with the other constituents of water—are injurious in drinking- waters. Dr. Lankester, during a lecture at the Royal In- stitution, analysed the water from a well-known favourite pump. It was found to be bright, cool, fresh, and taste- less to the palate, but, owing to a peculiar combination of nitric acid with the water, upon a chemical test being applied, it yielded a large amount of deleterious matter. Nitric acid decomposes all vegetable solutions, and when it exists in impure water, is highly detrimental to health; nevertheless, in a diluted form, taken in distilled water, it is not only one of the most refreshing of beverages, but is also a good tonic, and has been found useful in asthma and hooping-cough. If a cistern or reservoir of drinking-water be placed in a scullery, or where offensive smells arise from any cause, it should be closely covered, for the reason that water quickly absorbs offensive gases, and is thereby rendered totally unfit for drinking purposes. It is a well-known fact that if a pail of water be set in a newly-painted room, the smell of the paint is rapidly absorbed by the water; and in the same way water standing for a night in an occupied sleeping-room is rendered unwholesome for drinking. It is always advisable to have the water-pipes and cisterns brought inside the house, to prevent the water from freezing and the pipes from bursting. Exposed pipes should be covered with straw bands, which is the least permanent, effective, and troublesome method of protection. The Board of Health enumerates several qualities which water should possess—namely, Softness ; freedom from animal and vegetable matter; aeration by a pure atmosphere; freedom from earthy and mineral matter; medium temperature ; limpidity or clearness ; absence of special flavour or taste. These desiderata cannot all be had; but, as we have before observed, most if not all the evils complained of in water ordinarily supplied or obtained from wells can be remedied by boiling it for a long time, then aerating it, when cold, by pouring it at a height from one jug to another; by this means the flatness and deadness, usually the characteristics of boiled water, will be entirely got rid of, and the water will be as fresh and bright as ever. The safest, and indeed the only thorough remedy for all impurities, is distillation ; but this is of course a more tedious and troublesome operation. In a future article it is our intention to give some further information respecting pipes for the conveyance of water, cisterns for containing it, and other matters bearing upon our water supply. HOUSEHOLD AMUSEMENTS.—III. FORFEITS. It will have been observed that many of the games already described lead up to the payment of forfeits, and that some appear to be designed for the express purpose of extracting as many as possible from the various members of the company. This is really the case, for “ crying the forfeits,” as it is called, often forms the most amusing part of an evening’s entertainment, and is, there- fore, usually reserved until the last. It is conducted in the following manner :— Each player who has to pay a forfeit deposits some small article, or trinket, in the hands of one of the company appointed as collector—say a handkerchief, a knife, a pencil-case, or anything which can be readily identified. One article is given for every forfeit incurred, and it is redeemed when the particular task assigned to the owner has been duly performed. It is not desirable that very many forfeits should accumulate before they are