THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC. 214 To prevent the opening of the lock by any key but its own, a number of iron or brass rings, or “ wards,” as shown at E, are fitted inside the lock, to prevent the key from being turned round, unless the slits in the key exactly correspond with the wards. The action of the tumbler lock is, however, quite differ- ent. The bolt A (Fig. 73) is made to slide easily in the slots in the frame of the lock, but this bolt is not solid, except at the end which shoots out, its thickness being reduced in the middle to make room for the tumbler B to go behind it. This tumbler is hinged at E, and is pressed downwards by the spring F. On the end of the tumbler furthest from E, is a little projection, G, which exactly fits a notch in the bar A, as shown. The tumbler goes behind the bolt, as shown by the dotted lines. Now take the key, insert it into its place, and turn it round ; one edge coming in contact with the lower edge of the tumbler, will raise it from the notch c, and free the bolt; a further movement driving the bolt out, or shooting it, as it is termed ; the tumbler then drops into the notch D, and holds it secure. The reverse action of the key produces exactly the reverse result. The bolt A shoots into channels in the door-frame, the forms of which are quite immaterial. We now come to the latch and lock combined (Fig 74), which, as far as the lock is concerned, is just what we have now described in the tumbler lock, but looks more compli- cated on account of its combination. In the lock part of the arrangement, the same letters are used as with Fig. 73, and the same description exactly applies. The latch is a long bar, F, sliding easily for about half an inch, and pro- jecting that distance from the end, terminating in the bevel G at that end. The other end is turned at right angles to the bar, and prolonged into a smaller bar H. A spring, 1, keeps the whole bolt out, and a lever, J, acts on ’d[,'6n its being turned either way, and forces the bolt back. Into the square hole in j a square rod fits, and on to each end of this rod the handles are fastened. One handle is usually permanently fixed, the other is fastened by a screw in the handle, which catches into holes in the rod, so arranged on each side as to allow any adjustment required by the thickness of the door through which the handle goes. Such locks as are here illustrated will be found on most doors. They are arranged as “mortice” or as “rim” locks. The former are made to slide in a hole or mortice in the edge of the door, and are, therefore, out of sight. Rim locks are screwed on to the inner side of the door, and, of course, are not so neat as mortice locks. On the outside of the door in the case of rim locks, and on both sides with the other kind, the handle works in a plate, known as the “ rose,” which is bradded on to the door; the plate ornamenting the key-hole is known as the escutcheon. The handles, escutcheons, and finger-plates of doors are known as the furniture, and can be had of various patterns and qualities, according to desire or taste, and are therefore sold (piite independently of the locks. The complicated and beautiful latch locks, patented by various makers, are mostly on the tumbler principle, and in some cases the sliding bolt has six or eight of these tumblers to bo raised before it can be moved from its position ; the number and diversity of form in the tumblers rendering it nearly impossible that any but the right key will shoot the bolt. In these door latches, the lock tumbler is combined with the lifting latch, the principle of action being the same. Locks should occasionally be taken to pieces, cleaned, and oiled, when the stiff way in which they work shows they recpiire it. Where much exposed to damp and change of weather, locks should be made entirely of brass, as iron locks will rust and become useless ; nor is any amount of oiling sufficient to prevent it. In our next jiapcr we propose to give such information on the subjeei of gas-fittings as will fall within the scope of the Household .Mechanic. GUTTA-PERCHA FOR MENDING SHOES. Gutta-percha was scarcely known in this country until 1843, when Dr. Montgomerie, of Singapore, called attention to its valuable properties. It soon won its way to popular favour, and has continued to be an article of immense importance. One of the many applications made of it at the outset was the soling of shoes, which seems to have been first practised by a Mr. Mapple. It was found to be a bad conductor of heat, a repellant of moisture, a non- conductor of electricity, and, in the form of shoe soles, both durable and cheap, added to which it could be easily applied. Objections were made to it, but its use for shoe soles was established, and has continued ever since. One of the great difficulties at first was to make gutta-percha soles adhere firmly to leather, but this difficulty was over- come by various contrivances. Some attached the soles by means of a solution of gutta-percha in gas tar; others fastened them by first making holes in the leather, and squeezing the soft gutta-percha down with pressure enough to drive it into the holes. When the gutta-percha was in a manner glued on to a new upper leather as first practised, the soles came ‘away from the oily leather, as a matter of course. However, we only recommend gutta-percha either as a middle sole between two others, or as an affix to the outer sole. The soles may be affixed by any person with ordinary skill, which is an important recommendation where saving is almost as necessary as comfort. We discard all solutions and cements, and have done so for years. Our mode of operation is regularly now the follow- ing :—When our boots or shoes require a new pair of soles, we take them and dry them well before the fire. We scrape the soles thoroughly all over, so as not to leave any grit upon them ; we then take a small piece of gutta- percha and rub it into the leather soles with a hot iron, usually a screwdriver, covering the soles with a thin coat or plaster of gutta-percha. We lay the boot thus prepared before the fire, where it will keep hot. Then we take a gutta-percha sole, put a brad-awl through it an inch or so from one end, and hold it thus before the fire as if we were toasting it. When the surface is thoroughly hot and adhesive, we lay the new sole, the cool side down, on a piece of paper upon a board, and immediately place upon it in a proper position the boot which we have kept hot. If the paper sticks, never mind, it can easily be removed afterwards; we then press the new sole on equally with our fingers, until it is well fixed and properly shaped. It may then be allowed to cool, and afterwards be trimmed with a knife. If the process is correctly gone through according to the directions above given, the gutta-percha sole will wear out without being detached. Leather or gutta-percha soles with holes in them, or worn away in part, may be made good by simply melting upon them with the hot screw- driver pieces of gutta-percha, old or new ; any fragments will do. But in this case, also, the boots must be dry, and all grit and dirt be removed from the places to be operated upon ; in fact, dryness and freedom from dirt are the essentials to success. Warmth in the soles is desirable, but a good hot iron will enable a clever hand to spread the gutta-percha in any form or degree of thickness that may be desired. These are the methods which we have followed for many winters, and it is in winter especially that gutta- percha soles are desirable. It will be seen, from our description, that the opera- tion of applying the gutta-percha is a remarkably simple one, and one, moreover, which may easily be done at home. When it has once been tried, we are confident that our readers will value the information we have given. An old pair of boots or shoes may, by this means, readily be made water-tight.