CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 263 play continues until all the cards are played, when the number of tricks gained by each side is counted. All made beyond six are scored towards the game—thus, if one party has made seven tricks during that hand, they count one towards game, but the side which has taken the other six count nothing. The game consists of ten points, made either by tricks or honours. Honours are the four highest trumps—the ace, king, queen, and knave. Each of these counts one to the side which gets it in the deal; but in practice the players do not score any for honours unless two partners possess either three or four between them. Thus, supposing each side to hold two honours, neither adds anything to the score, because “ honours are divided,” and neutralise each other. Three honours, by the same rule, count only two towards game, the one held by the opponents being deducted. But if one side holds all the honours, it is allowed to score four for them, the value towards game being precisely the same as if four tricks had been made. In counting, however, tricks take precedence of honours ; so that if each side stands at eight, and one is entitled to score two by tricks, while the other side has won two by honours, the former, having the privilege of counting first, make up their ten, and so win the game. When either side has scored nine towards game, it is not allowed to count honours. When the score of either party stands at eight, one of the partners, holding two honours in his hand after a fresh deal, may ask the other, “ Have you an honour?” or “ Can you one ?” and if the reply is “ Yes,” the three honours are exhibited, and that side is allowed to count out at once. But after the first trick has been played the question cannot be asked. The other side, if they can make sufficient tricks, will consequently win the game in spite of their opponents’ honours. The dealer leaves the trump, or turn-up card, face uppermost on the table until the first trick is played to, so as to give every one full opportunity of knowing what is the trump suit. He then withdraws it to his own hand. The dealer thus has the advantage of always holding one trump at least, besides the chance that this one may be an honour. It is usual at whist to play, not single games only, but rubbers of three games, the conquerors in two out of the three winning, as it is called, “ the rub.” The game of ten points is known as lo7ig whist, and is that usually played where amusement and recreation are the objects. Short whist is an invention of modern days, and consists of five points only. A rubber is consequently much ■sooner over than when the long game is played, which is a recommendation to some persons, but a disadvantage in the minds of others. Honours count the same at short as at long whist, but they cannot be scored when the players have reached fo7ir points. The game of whist should be played in silence. Any remarks by a player as to the nature of the cards which have fallen to him, &c., are contrary to the spirit of the game, and, although not forbidden expressly by its laws, are considered irregular and objectionable, where the game is played with strictness. The following are recognised as exceptions to this rule. At any time, while a hand is being played, the question may be asked, “ What are trumps ?” And when a player, either through momentary inattention, or through the rest having followed each other very quickly in their play, is in doubt as to what card was played by his partner, he may say, before playing, “ Draw your card, partner,” which the latter does by placing his hand upon it. Further, any one before a trick is lifted—i.e., taken up and turned upon the table—may demand that the cards shall be “ placed,” each before the person who played it. And, lastly, any one may demand to see the last trick I played—that is, to have the cards comprising it shown to him; but he is not then entitled to inquire who played them. COURT MANUAL.—III. We now proceed to give an account of each of the five orders of the hereditary peerage of this kingdom, commencing with the highest. Duke.—A dukedom is created by royal patent, and all dukes can sit in the House of Lords. The privileges of this dignity are numerous, and its holders, with their families, take very high rank in the scale of precedence. At a coronation a duke and his duchess are entitled to wear special robes and coronets. The coronet is in each case of gold, set round with eight strawberry-leaves of gold ; its cap is of crimson velvet lined and turned up with ermine, and surmounted with a gold tassel. There are also special robes and a cap to be worn when the sovereign in person opens or closes Parliament. A duke is styled His Grace ; and he may c[ualify eight chaplains, and his duchess two. Marquis.—The eldest son of a duke is by courtesy a marquis, but he does not on that account occupy a seat in the House of Peers. The rank of marquis is conferred by the sovereign, and is next in degree to that of duke. The title of marchioness is borne by the wife of a mar- quis, but it has been occasionally bestowed upon ladies as an independent dignity.* In such cases the dignity is not hereditary, as it usually is in the case of gentlemen. The marquis has a special robe and coronet, and so has a marchioness. The coronet of a marquis is a gold circle set round with four strawberry-leaves, and alternating with them are four pearls set on pyramidal points. The coronet of a marchioness has eight pearls on points with as many small strawberry-leaves alternating, and a gold tassel on the top. The robes differ somewhat from those of a duke, and ar^e w'orn on similar occasions. The eldest son is, by courtesy, an earl, and his younger sons are vis- counts. A marquis can retain and qualify five chaplains, and when he is such by creation or inheritance, he is a peer of the realm. Earl.—_The eldest son of an earl is by courtesy a viscount. The creation of an earl is by letters patent, which give the possessor of the title, in England at least, a place in the House of Peers. The wife of an earl is a countess, and both have special robes and coronets, the latter having each eight pearls on points, and as many small strawberry-leaves of gold alternating with them'. The younger sons of earls are styled barons, and the daughters viscountesses. 'Viscount.—This title is conferred by letters patent; it descends according to the limitations expressed in them, and it is the most modern title of peerage in this country. The eldest son of a viscount holds the rank of a baron, his daughters that of baronesses, and his younger sons that of bannerets. A viscount and a viscountess have their proper state robes and coronets, the latter adorned or set with sixteen pearls each, and having a tassel of gold. A viscount may retain four chaplains, and a viscountess two. Ba7'on.—There were formerly barons by tenure, but these no longer exist. Some barons have been such by writ, as it is termed ; but it is by letters patent under the great seal that the heritable dignity is conferred at this time in cases of new creation. A baron and baroness have their appropriate robes and coronets, the latter being set with six pearls each, and surmounted by a gold tassel. A baron is an hereditary peer, his eldest son has the place of a banneret; he may retain three chaplains, and his baroness two. * In the same manner ladies have been invested with the titles of duchess, countess, baroness, &c.