315 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. afresh with cold water, and left to simmer for a time, it makes an excellent stock for use instead of cold water. One pound of meat to a pint of water is about the pro- portion generally prescribed for young children and in- valids. The slices of meat with least gristle should be reserved for the little ones. Joints dressed for the children’s dinner should be sent up without any made gravy in the dish. The surplus gravy which flows from the joint should be saved for the following day’s dinner, when a slice of tender meat put into pure gravy at boiling heat is nearly equal in nourishment to a slice from a freshly- cooked joint. Little folks should be encouraged to feed slowly, and therefore, if possible, a hot-water plate should be supplied to each child. There is no difficulty in supplying this luxury if ordinary soup plates are to be had. A plate of the latter kind filled with boiling water, over which the dinner plate is placed, forms a very good substitute. The most suitable joints for children are those in which there is little fat. Neither should burnt skin be given them. It is easy to produce a distaste for animal food by acts of oversight, and such acts should be guarded against. Very young children, if once disgusted with fat, seldom recover the habit of eating any, and thereby lose much nourishment. Fat of beef or mutton, if very finely minced and mixed with lean meat, is seldom detected, but lumps of fat are almost invariably refused. When a child has cut the whole of his first set of teeth, he should have meat daily, minced, as before described, and with salt. This is of especial importance, for with- out it serious mischief will inevitably ensue. Beef and mutton are more easy of digestion than veal and lamb. For a young child, pork is not suitable. Fats of most kinds are valuable, and children should be accustomed early to partake of such food. Bacon is ex- cellent nourishment, and may be eaten when fresh meat is not served. The habit of giving children much bread and butter, to the exclusion of other substances, is an error liable to be contracted from the facility of providing the meal. The practice is to be condemned, not only on the score of deficiency of nourishment, but on that of economic value. The butter sold in towns is seldom what it professes to be, and is liable to be composed of inferior fats artfully dis- guised. Instead of paying a high price for an article of fictitious value, it is far better to make use of substances that are known to be of genuine quality—of such are lard and dripping. The latter is generally plentiful in families, and is far preferable as nourishment to the so-called butter generally sold. As for lard, nothing is easier than for a good housewife to prepare the lard used in her household. In point of price and quality the provisions thus used will be found doubly profitable. Home-made or country bread is far preferable to bakers’ bread, if it can be procured, for children as well as adults. A more general use of soup, thickened with any of the ferinaceous articles described, is to be recommended. No more nourishing meal, for instance, than a well-com- pounded basin of pea-soup can be imagined. If to the added stock liquor, and a certain quantity of clarified beef dripping, most of the constituents of first- class food are present in this simple dish. Vegetable soups in which slices of bread are crumbled are infinitely superior to tea or coffee, which too often constitute the nursery breakfast and tea from one year’s end to the other. dinner, toast-and-water or simple water should be a child’s beverage only ; but let it be filtered, and be very careful whence it comes. Spring-water from a moderately deep well is best. Beware of it from leaden cisterns, and irom land-springs, which are often contaminated by drains. HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART.—IX. MODELLING IN CLAY FOR AMATEURS. In the art of sculpture, modelling in clay forms the most important part of the work of the artist. In the forma- tion of a marble statue, the first process consists in making a clay model ; from this a cast is taken in plaster of Paris, and an exact copy in marble is carved from the plaster cast. The after labours of casting and carving may be, and are indeed generally, left almost entirely to workmen ; but the model, in which the design is shown, and in which all the artistic qualities of the work, such as composition, form, and expression, are evinced, must be the work of the artist himself. Model- ling is thus, in the hands of the professed sculptor, considered, and not without sufficient reason, as the highest and most difficult of the arts. All modelling, however, is not necessarily high art, does not necessarily demand great artistic powers, and is not necessarily difficult. It is an art of wide application to merely decorative purposes. In the common articles of use in our houses, almost all the cast ornamental portions are produced by modelling in clay. The scroll-work and foliage on our fenders and fire-grates, the brass orna- ments on our lamps and gas-fittings, even the figures and flowers on our earthenware, when they are raised above the surface, are all reproductions from designs originally made by this process ; and these things are the work of persons whom no one would think of calling artists. In fact, the difficulty of modellirig, when con- sidered as a part of sculpture, consists in the difficulty of attaining a just knowledge of composition, of the forms and proportions of the human figure, and not in the management of the material. The material itself and the means of manipulating it are of extreme simplicity ; and, with a little attention and perseverance, far less than would be necessary to produce anything in the remotest degree satisfactory in drawing or painting, the amateur may arrive at such results in modelling as will afford considerable pleasure. Apart from the gratification to be derived from the art as an occupation for leisure time—and this is no slight one, for few things are more delightful than to see actual forms growing under our hands—modelling may, in various ways, be made to conduce to the beauty of a home. Vases, brackets, pedestals, and other deco- rative articles, may be produced and ornamented with original designs, or with animals or foliage copied from nature, as fancy or taste may dictate. Afterwards, as the beginner grows more accustomed to the work, and becomes desirous of higher efforts, he may attempt a medallion or bust of a friend. His work, in the latter case, will probably not be quite equal to Chantrey’s ; but if he copies faithfully the features of his sitter, he will have the satisfaction of preserving in an imperishable manner the actual form of his friend’s face, and of giving a likeness which will show him from all points of view, and one which will therefore have a value no photograph can possess. We have already spoken of the simplicity of the means and materials employed ; they have another quality which will equally recommend them for amateur use, that is, their extreme cheapness. For a few shillings the beginner may furnish himself with everything requisite. Ladies need not fear to handle the clay on the ground of its being dirty ; the clay used for modelling is in its nature clean, and is, indeed, used in domestic life for cleaning purposes, under the name of pipe-clay. It is by no means disagreeable to the touch, and wipes or washes from the hands with the greatest ease, cleansing them as soap does ; and in modelling on a small scale there is nothing that may not, by exercising a little care, be done without incon- venience in a drawing-room.