170 SERVANTS OF THE HOUSE. way the more profitable variety. The forehead should be flat, and the bill a clear orange red. The plumage is a rich brown, passing into white on the under parts and tail coverts. The Embden goose is pure white in every feather, and the eye should show a peculiar blue colour in the iris in all well-bred birds. We should recommend for market to cross the Toulouse goose with the white, by which greater weight is gained than in either variety pure- bred ; but much will depend upon circumstances. White or cross-bred geese require a pond, but the Toulouse, with a good grass run, will do well with only a trough of water, and will require no extra feeding, except for fattening or exhibition. With regard to the general management of geese little need be said. More than four or five should not be allowed to one gander, and such a family will require a house about eight feet square ; but to secure fine stock three geese are better to one male. Each nest must be about two feet six inches square, and, as the goose will always lay where she has deposited her first egg, there must be a nest for each bird. If they each lay in a separate nest the eggs may be left ; otherwise they should be removed daily. Geese should be set in March or early in April, as it is very difficult to rear the young in hot weather. The time is thirty to thirty-four days. The goose sits very steadily, but should be induced to come off daily and take a bath. Besides this she should have in reach a good supply of food and water, or hunger will compel her, one by one, to eat all her eggs. The gander is usually kept away; but this is not very needful, as he not only has no enmity to the eggs or goslings, but takes very great interest in the hatching, often sitting by his mate for hours. The goslings should be allowed to hatch out entirely by themselves. When put out they should have a fresh turf daily for a few days, and be fed on boiled oatmeal and rice, with water from a pond, in a very shallow dish, as they should not be allowed to swim for a fortnight, for which time the goose is better kept under a very large crate. After two weeks they will be able to shift for themselves, only requiring to be protected from very heavy rain till fledged, and to have one or two feeds of grain daily, in addition to what they pick up. For fattening they should be penned up half-a-dozen together in a dark shed and fed on barley-meal, being let out several hours for a last bath before being killed, in order to clean their feathers. SERVANTS OF THE HOUSE.—III. THE COOK. In small households, where only one kitchen servant is kept, the duties of the cook comprise those which devolve on the kitchen and scullery-maids of larger establish- ments. Whether the domestics be few or many, how- ever, the cook’s position is second in importance to none save that of the housekeeper. The only portion of housework which a cook in a moderate-sized family is generally expected to undertake is the cleaning of the hall, the entrance, and the dining- room—work which can be done before breakfast, and consequently without hindrance to her special vocation of cooking. In very few instances will a good plain cook consent to clean boots and knives. If she does, a knife machine is generally stipulated for, and is not an unrea- sonable request when the interruption knife-cleaning occasions is taken into consideration. Cinder-sifting, likewise, belongs to cook’s work in small families, and is much facilitated by the use of a patent sifter, of which more anon. The principal qualities to seek in a cook are early rising, cleanliness, punctuality, and sobriety. Honesty is, of course, essential in every department of domestic service, but the want of this virtue is apt to display itself in cooks less in acts of commission than of omission. By failing to make the most of the stores entrusted to her care, or by disposing of articles of food for her own profit, what is indulgently termed ‘‘ want of economy ” becomes actual dishonesty, and tends considerably to impoverish the means of employers. Therefore, in taking the character of a cook, it is important to ascertain whether she has the practice of turning every article of consumption—remnants, &c.—to the best account for her employer’s sake. A servant that possesses such know- ledge, and is willing to apply it to its right use, deserves better wages than one who recklessly squanders her master’s substance. If the pounds annually saved by an intelligent and faithful servant were remunerated by a reward of so many shillings, there is no doubt that a spirit of economy would be more often displayed than is the case where no note is taken of similar virtues. A great point would be gained towards securing more efficient cooks than now usually fill situations of the kind, if every mistress of an establishment would prosecute her inquiries as to the applicant’s fitness for the place beyond the regular stereotyped questions relative to the reasons for leaving the last situation, wages, &c. Suppose, for in- stance—a satisfactory account of moral character having been given—the employer were to test the servant’s know- ledge of cooking by a few practical questions, such as : How long do you make up your fire before roasting? What time do you allow for boiling a leg of mutton of a certain weight ? What use do you put cold vegetables to ? What do you do with bones and dripping ? How much fresh meat do you require per week to supply soup in a given number of days ? How much meat do you consider should be consumed weekly in the kitchen ? How many loaves do you think are sufficient for a family of so many persons ? &c. By similar inquiries, the good opinion of a well-informed servant, far from being diminished, w’ould increase in favour of the employer; and the bane of ignorance would cease to characterise the present body of cooks as a class. As much for the benefit of the inexperienced employer as the employed, the following directions are given. First, with regard to the kitchen fire. A good manager will keep the winder of the range close handy, in order to enlarge or narrow the opening according to the culinary operations required. This cannot be easily done if the grooves are suffered to become choked with cinders and dust. The only way to obviate this difficulty is never to light the kitchen fire before first sweeping out every portion of fuel. A fire for roasting requires a somewhat wider opening than the length of the joint about to be suspended in front. Meat should always be put down before a “mend- ing fire ”—that is, one which has been made up of coals still unconsumed. It is bad economy to throw up the cinders for a roasting fire until the joint is done. A well- made fire should burn steadily with very little stirring until the joint is half cooked, when the meat-screen or dripping-pan should be moved from the front of the fire ; the lower bars of the range should be thoroughly raked out from dust, the burning coals should be brought gently to the front, and the back filled in with fresh, surmounting the top with a few pieces of coke and small lumps of coal mixed. By this means the progress of the joint in getting too rapidly cooked on the outside is ai'rested. and gives the heat a chance of penetrating to the centre. A fire thus made will burn briskly by the time when the appe- tising browning of the joint is needed. Half the failures in roasting are attributable to putting a joint down before a fierce fire, and finishing with a slack one. Slow roasting at the commencement is indispensable to the preservation of the flavour of the meat. This may be effected by regulating the distance from the fire. About