CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 325 thrown in when it is on the point of boiling ; they are soon done (from five to ten minutes), and require careful watching and tender handling. Potted Trout {Charr) is often merely a proof that the preparer has learnt the art of embalming ; and that the bodies of trout, like those of men, may be kept for indefinite periods, and transported to unlimited distances. What they taste of, besides spice, at their journey’s end, we should be sorely puzzled to decide. country. Our taste for him has become catching, as con- tagious as the scarlet fever, and perhaps equally dangerous. When our talents produced him, it was because our neces- sities called aloud for the propagation of qualities some- what meet to be combined with our own. The Racehorse, all over the world, is an English horse now, for it is doubtful whether the best Arabs can compete with him ; and France, Germany, America, and Australia have bought and borrowed him from us. The High-class Hunter is bred nowhere but in this THE HORSE.—II. ENGLISH HORSES. Having noticed, in our previous article, those breeds from which the English horse appears to be derived, we come next to the consideration of species into which the genus is divided, and to show the great adaptability of the English horse particularly, for the duties which he has to perform. There are many kinds of horses in this country, not only suited to us, but unsuited to others, inasmuch as there is nowhere else exactly the same call for his services. And this adaptation of the animal to peculiar wants and neces- sities proves the capability of the horse, his dependence upon structure and breeding for his powders, and the care and consideration which have been given to the subject in England. The Cart-horse.—In the Introduction we hardly mentioned the agricultural horse with the honour which belongs to him, for we ought to have informed the reader, when speaking of indigenous breeds, that one of the earliest known kinds—known before any proper records of the horse exist—is our English cart-horse. He was no beauty ; there was but little external grace to recommend him; but, like other ill-favoured animals, he had some sterling qualities in his favour. So we crossed him with the Flemish, and even with something in Suffolk which produced what we call the Sicffblk Punch. An improved sort from the original arose later, and we believe rather repudiates all connection with the drooping quarters and fiddle-case head of the English cart-horse. ’Th.e Tincolnshire and Clydesdale are also two kinds, one of which is known, or was known, to us as the Lo7idon Dray Horse, and the other as the handsome, active, and powerful cart-horse used in the lowlands of Scotland. It does not clearly appear from any writer what are the absolute crosses which go to furnish these remarkably fine specimens of the agricultural horse, but it is always ad- mitted that the Norman blood is the great ingredient which, combining with the Flemish and English, pro- duced the antitype of those magnificent horses for which Suffolk, Lincolnshire, and Yorkshire have made us famous. There is indeed another class, called the Cleveland, equally doubtful in origin, which is of a lighter kind, resembling a powerful coach-horse. If this has been crossed, as doubt- less it has, with the heavier cart-horse, the result would be a combination of power and activity of considerable value to the farmer. Lighter Horses, and their Adaptability to ourPursuits.— We have said that the adaptability of the English horse to our various uses was somewhat remarkable. Until lately, the racehorse has been wanted nowhere else but in this country, save by accident, because his qualities, as we shall learn by-and-by, are fitted only for that especial purpose; while The Poor Man's Hunter would be despised anywhere but in merry England, where he provides health and cheerful and innocent amusement for a very large class of people. These are mere instances of that care and talent which produce just what we require for our own use. The Hack, the Harness Horse, the Charger, and the Farmer's Horse, be they of what class they may, are universal necessities. Every country on which the blessings of civilisation or the dangers of war have alighted requires such horses as these, and it has them ; and, as we advance in th’s important subject, we shall generally see that the genius of the people has achieved a victory over difficulties. STRUCTURE OF THE HORSE. No man can know much about the horse, or how to buy him, without studying his structure or external form, as distinct from his anatomy. Our present ob- ject is to give the reader a general knowledge of the shape of the horse in his best and most conspicuous points. In speaking of him in detail we shall be able to state those which are the most essential for each particular class, and which may be best dispensed with. It is exceedingly difficult to find them all perfect in one subject; and even then he might not come up to our standard, unless his moral structure, his courage, docility, and freedom from disease coincided with his physical excellence. His Head should be broad in the forehead, but not large between the eyes ; the proportion of one part to another is, however, of most consequence, and the expression of face, which may be easily caught by practice. The eye should be large and prominent, which is characteristic of high breeding and generosity. The nostril should be large, and after exercise expansive, this is usually a sign of fine wind, though not necessarily so, as the internal structure may be equal to the highest exertion without this conformation. The muzzle should be fine, and the jaws open, or wide, as on this depends the way in which he may be taught to carry his head. We leave the teeth for the present. The Neck should be of moderate length, and much longer over the crest than below. At a cursory glance, this will give evidence of a well-placed shoulder. Horses with long thin necks are not generally very good-winded, and frequently require to be steadied by a martingale, or some such device, of which we s’nall speak later. The mane should be thin and fins : curliness and thick- ness denote want of breeding. The Shoulders are exceedingly difficult to judge of by sight. High withers—i.e., the upper point of the