277 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. ceptive faculties stimulated from their infancy, and they acquire information quite unconsciously from books, pictures, and the ordinary conversation of those around them ; so that a girl of thirteen, unless exceptionally backward, finds it a slight task to learn whole pages by heart, has a fair knowledge of history and geography, besides writing and spelling with ease. She only requires two or three years of special training to become a clever teacher for children below her in rank.” A good student is not necessarily a good teacher, and but few people grasp the difference between training and teaching. Many women of any education can teach one or two children to read and write ; but how few, without special training, can keep a school of five or six classes steadily at work without disorder and confusion. To do this needs a knowledge of the best methods of organisa- tion and discipline ; and this knowledge is to be had nowhere in England but in the Government schools for elementary teachers. Whatever is learned in them is learned with a view to teaching it again, and the best method of so teaching it. The critical faculty—power to grasp the gist of a paragraph, the scope of a question, the point of a lesson—is cultivated by constant discussion of books, methods, oral lessons, and whatever is likely to bear on a teacher’s work. Methods of government, how to secure order, regularity, and obedience; moral influence and training ; the distribution of time in the manage- ment of a school, subjects of instruction, &c., are studies carried on so far successfully in these Government col- leges, that mistresses go out from them capable of working a school of from 100 to 200 undisciplined children with perfect ease. It is therefore highly recommended that all who propose to themselves this career should enter a train- ing college and pass the prescribed two years’ training. Persons passing the admission examination to train- ing colleges are called “ Queen’s scholars,” and are charged at Bishop Otter’s Memorial College ;^20 per annum for each year’s residence. The sum at other col- leges varies from a free admission to ;i^io entrance fee. Persons over twenty-one years of age are admitted to some colleges as private students without passing the admission examination, and are eligible for the certificate examination after a residence of one year. The charge for private students is ^35 per annum at the Otter College. The list of Training Schools recognised by Government are :— Normal Schools for Mistresses only. Bishop Otter’s Memorial College, Chichester. Bishop’s Stortford—Rochester Diocesan. Brighton—Chichester Diocesan. Bristol—Gloucester and Oxford Diocesan. Derby—Lichfield Diocesan. Durham Diocesan. Edinburgh—Lochrin House. Scottish Episcopal. London, Gray’s Inn Road—Home and Col. School Soc.’s. Lincoln Diocesan. Norwich Diocesan. Ripon—York and Ripon Diocesan. Salisbury Diocesan. Southlands—Battersea Wesleyan. Stockwell—British and Foreign School Society’s, and also at Swansea and Darlington. Truro—Exeter Diocesan. Warrington—Chester Diocesan. Whitelands—National Society’s. Training Schools for both Masters and Mistresses. Cheltenham—Church of England. Edinburgh—Castle Hill Terrace. Church of Scotland. Edinburgh—Moray House. Free Church. Glasgow—Dundas Vale. Church of Scotland. Glasgow—Free Church Normal School. Homerton—Congregational. The Otter Memorial College is especially intended for gentlewomen of some cultivation. It has been recently enlarged, and now accommodates forty students. Diplomas are granted by the “ College of Preceptors,” 42, Queen Square, W.C., to teachers. They are of different grades, and, like all such certificates, have a commercial value. The first-class certificate, awarded at the half-yearly pupils’ examinations of this body, is ac- knowledged by various public bodies as a guarantee of good general education, and would be of value to a girl wishing for a situation as junior or assistant mistress. The chief purpose of this society is the advancement of education among the middle classes, and its diplomas for teachers (the requirements for which are special and con- siderable, and guarantee some experience in educational methods) form a link between those of the University and of the Government Training Colleges. In one respect they have an advantage for teachers over the University examinations, as they take particular notice of “ practical ability in teaching,” or that capability for imparting knowledge which is too often considered synonymous with its possession. The regulations of the College of Preceptors require that candidates for its diplomas should have been either actually engaged in teaching for not less than one year, or have passed through the course of the training class especially estab- lished by the College for Teachers. The highest certificates attainable by women are the degree-certificates of Girton College, Cambridge. They are held on the same conditions as those which qualify for degrees in the U niversity of Cambridge, and are really, though not formally, equivalent to a University degree, the examinations being held in the same papers. These certificates, like University degrees, are conferred only ort resident students who have gone through a regular course of education. The candidates for admission must, except in special cases, be not less than eighteen, and must pass, an entrance examination. The college course extends over three years, half of each year being spent at the college ; the fees, amounting to 100 guineas a year, are inclusive, covering board, lodging, and instruction. Some assistance toward meeting the expense is given in the form of scholarships. The University of London holds two examinations:—• I. The General Examination once a year, commencing- the first Monday in May. Fee fi. Candidates over- seventeen years of age are admitted. II. Special Ex- aminations for higher proficiency, to which success- ful candidates at the first examination are eligible for examination. It is also held annually, in May, and grants a special certificate. The regulations for these examinations may be obtained from the Registrar, Uni- versity of London, W. Instruction in most of the subjects of these examina- tions may be obtained at University College, Gow'er Street, London, at which classes are held with a view of placing within the reach of ladies a course of higher instruction, similar to that offered to students of the college. The University of Cambridge Higher Local Examina- tions take place in June, and are open to both sexes over eighteen, at a fee of fyz. They have a smaller group of advanced subjects than the University of London, and they aim at thorough, rather than advanced knowledge. Information may be had from the Rev. G. F. Browne, St. Catherine’s College, Cambridge. Courses of lectures, arranged with reference to these examinations, are held at Cambridge ; and Newnham Hall has lately been erected with a view to accommo- dating students. It holds twenty-seven ladies, and has been full from the commencement. The charge for board for women preparing to be teachers is ^15 per term; to all others £,20.