358 THE DOG. required ; the open stitches, given in our last, may be used for the present design, and arranged after the worker’s own taste. For the “loop,” in the point of the vandyke, in our pre- sent number, we should advise that “ a wheel ” be worked in its open space. For this purpose, threads should be stretched across, as in Fig. i, by taking the needle from one side of the opening to the other, and then sewing back over the thread, until the starting-point is reached ; the needle is now taken on a little way, and another thread is stretched; this is continued until four threads are taken across, each being sewn over before the next one is commenced. After the fourth time, the sewing again goes back as far as the centre, or the point where the lines intersect, and, after taking a stitch of overcast to keep the threads together, the spot is then formed by taking the needle under and over the threads alter- nately until it be of the required size, when the remaining half of that thread should be sewn over, which will bring the needle to the opposite braid again for fastening. For the wheel, fine thread should be used. In some of the spaces, which are not very wide, the bars shovm in Fig. 2 may be employed with much effect, and differ from those given at Fig. 4, p. 282. The thread is taken across and fastened with an overcast to the braid; then sewn back again over the thread, which gives the appearance of a -twisted rope. This may be varied by the same style of bar being worked lengthwise, as in Fig. 3, imparting a sort of leaf-like look, and contrasting well with some of the closer patterns of the open-work. With regard to the size of cotton used, it is almost impossible to par- ticularise ; indeed, the worker must decide this for herself, and try the effect of different open stitches, until she can suit heAjwn taste as to the cotton. A great variety of braids, for point-lace work, are now made; and we have seen beautiful patterns sent from Nottingham, and, also., samples of cotton. We need hardly say that the “ Spanish Point-Lace Cord” is to be continued along the edge of the braid in this “ Loop ” pattern, as in the “ Trefoil.” We hope, shortly, to give a design for a border to be laid on the edge of a square-cut open bodice. THE DOG.—VIII. week and repeat the process, which will usually be sufficient; but if the dog begins again to scratch itself suspiciously, the process must be gone through again. In another kind of skin disease the hair falls off, in patches, which, as before, appear hard, scaly, and cofru- gated, and the itching is intense, but in this kind seems- worse in the parts still covered with hair. The treatment begins with tonic medicines for a week or two, such as are given for distemper—omitting quinine when liquor arsenicalis is given, and diluted with water—this being a sure specific. Give a small dog half a drop thrice a day at first, a large one two drops, and so in proportion to the size, each day increasing the doses by half a drop, or a drop, respectively, for /Ae whole day* (not for each dose). At length the dog will have a discharge from the eyes, or they will look bloodshot, or he will loathe his food, or in some other way. show the medicine is acting, when it must be stopped for three days, and then com- menced again at half a drop less than the last dose, for fear of overdoing it, again increasing till the dog is affected a second time. Some animals I'equire very little before their system is influenced ; others will stand an enormous quantity, comparatively, of the poison before they show any sign that the medicine is acting—in fact, require what would kill another dog of equal strength and size. But, whatever be the dose required, the medicine is infallible, and when given cautiously, as described, perfectly in- nocuous. In one to two months the disease will be cured. Over-fed or fat dogs are apt to contract another kind of mange, which manifests itself by a most offensive odour and an enormous thickening of the skin.' Of course sensation is deadened, and the very hardest pinching only gives the animal pleasure. The back often shows more or less bare places, but not always, and the spirits are dull. The cure consists in withholding all flesh meat, and confining the animal to vegetable diet, giving an emetic of antimonial wine, and then a daily dose for three or four days of a castor-oil mixture (siich as is given hereafter), followed by tonics, with a cold bath, every morning. Then apply daily some stimulating linimeri^ such as— Oil of turpentine 2 parts'! Nut oil 1 part Vmix. Oil of pitch 2 parts J ■ DISE.4SE.S OF DOGS (continuedfromp. 308). Mange.—This word is used to denote almost every kind of skin disease in the dog. True mange is caused by an insect; but Mr. Mayhew describes four other kinds, and says he believes there are many more. In real mange (which generally arises from con- tagion) the skin is more or less extensively denuded of hair, dry and scaly, and corrugated (in ridges). The spirits are mostly dejected, with only occasional symptoms of liveliness, and the animal is constantly scratching himself, while the heat of the body is greater than usual, and, as a rule, the animal drinks more than when in health. Mercurial ointment is commonly prescribed by farriers or illiterate dog-doctors. It doubtless cures the mange, but at the same time it greatly injures the animal. A dog never C07npietely recovers from salivation, therefore the best ointment is one composed of— Ointment of resin Sublimed sulphur v at discretion. Oil of juniper ) Add as much of the second ingredient to the first as can possibly be mixed, till the mass is too stiff to add any more, and then thin down with the third till of a convenient consistency for use. Rub well into the shin (smearing the coat merely is ridiculous), and wash off next day. Do this three times, which will last a week. Then rest a mix. After a week make it as follow's :— Oil of turpentine Nut oil Oil of pitch Turpentine ... As the turpentine acts in reducing the thickness of the skin it will give acute j^ain, and the dog wall utter piteous cries. The quantities used may then be somewhat lessened : but, in spite of the animal’s agony, the process must be continued if a cure be desired, though it is a question ivhethcr real humanity would not rather order a merciful execution. I n another kind of mange the hair suddenly falls off ia patches. “For this,” Mr. Mayhew says, “no application is necessary, if the diet be attended to but we think the application of sulphur ointment much facilitates re-growth. In the last kind of so-called mange—which frequently attacks young pups—the hair nearly all falls oft', till the pup is almost naked, the skin being covered with nearly black patches, caused by effusion of blood, and large pustules filled with matter. In growm dogs, as a nile, only the back, neck, and head are affected, and a cure is certain with patience, but is very tedious and expensive. In the case of pups all depends on the strength of the • .As liair n drop a day divided in three may puzzle the reader, wc may observe that the liquor (ordinary strength) may b: diluted with six times its hulk of water. Then an increase of one drop of tlie mixture to eack dost v/ill be equivalent to only linlf a drop of the liquor during the whole day *. x id sc on.