14S GARDENING. when the beds are turned down, the bottks should be re- filled with fresh water. Iv most families where there are daughters, the general servant gets help in making the beds. Sometimes the mistress of the house assists. The rooms that are to be specially cleaned should afterwards be made ready for the work, and the toilet appendages laid on the bed, together with any books or movables that may require protecting from the dust. A sweeping-sheet should then be thrown over the whole. The valances of the bed should be tucked up, and the bed curtains folded neatly across the bolster. If no special cleaning is to be done, the bedroom should be quickly dusted and put in order, the servant collecting lamps, candlesticks, and other articles that have to be cleaned in the kitchen. When the up-stairs work is so far done, a general washing up in the kitchen should begin. The mistress or daughters will probably in the meanwhile dust the ornaments in the drawing-room, and aid in giving an air of order and refinement to the room. Throughout the morning the tradesmen’s bell causes serious interruption to a servant. It is a good plan to let certain tradesmen call on specified days only. The orders should be given early by the mistress on those days, and so diminish the number of times the servant has to answer the bell. A ticket may be placed in the front window to indicate the days on which different tradesmen should call. The hour at which the family dines determines whether the servant shall do the principal house-cleaning in the morning or afternoon. If the hour is late, the morning is best; if early, the contrary. In any case a servant should not be allowed to leave the kitchen while a joint is roast- ing, as many are apt to do, thinking that the meat need only swing round and round till dinner-time to be properly cooked. Afternoon dinners will generally be found more suitable to the thorough dispatch of house-work, than a mid-day meal, though of course, when there are children in the family, this is impossible. Some forethought is re- quired to set a servant free to do special cleaning without neglecting the dinner. If a general servant is required to wait at table, it is unreasonable to expect that she can be very tidy at mid- day. But if the dinner hour is late, she may be able to dress herself before dishing up, having previously cleared her kitchen. No washing up beyond china and glass should be expected afterwards. The plates and dishes should be cleared of scraps, and stacked away in an orderly manner in the washhouse till the following morn- ing, when time for washing them, together with the saucepans, &c., should be allowed. Under these circum- stances the servant can wait upon the family in the evening, and employ the rest of her time in repairing or making her clothes. Before laying the dinner cloth, the servant should tidy the room. The hearth may require sweeping up, and, with the mistress’s permission, the cinders may be carried out and burnt in the kitchen in the evening. At dusk, it is the servant’s business to draw down the blinds of the house, close the shutters, and prepare the bedrooms for the night. If any washing is done at home, the work of the house should be so arranged that Saturday afternoon may be reserved for looking up the articles to be washed, and putting them into soak. We shall have occasion to speak more particularly about washing hereafter ; meanwhile, observe that there is great saving of time in washing on Mondays. In order to begin early on that day, the clothes should be all sorted and in soak (flannels and coloured things excepted) on Saturday evening. The closing of the basement and turning off the gas is generally left to the general servant, but the master or mistress of the house goes round to see that all is safe. SEASONABLE FOOD. APRIL. Every housekeeper is aware that many articles of food are considered in season or out of season at certain times of the year. It is needless to inquire into the reasons for this, though a satisfactory explanation could be given in most cases. Bearing the circumstance in mind, we propose to give from month to month a list of the principal articles in meat, game, and poultry, fish, vegetables, and fruit, which are in season. It will be observed that some things, as beef, veal, and mutton, are always in season ; but they may nevertheless be repeated in the monthly lists. Meat.—Beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal. Poultry a7tdGame.—Wild ducks, rabbits, fowls, chickens, pullets, ducklings, pigeons, wood-pigeons. Fish.—Brill, cod, flounders, herrings, mackerel, mullets, salmon, skate, smelts, soles, turbot, whiting, oysters, mussels, cockles, lobsters, crabs, prawns, and shell-fish in general, perch, carp, chub, eels, tench, trout, pike. Vegetables.—Broccoli, sea-kale, spinach, chervil, endive, lettuces, potatoes, onions, parsnips, peas, turnip-tops, radishes, herbs of all sorts, small salads, rhubarb. Garden herbs or pot-herbs, which are chiefly used for stuffings, in soups, and for flavouring dishes, or for garnishing, are always in season, and can be procured at any time, either green or dried. Frtnt.—Apples, nuts, oranges, and dried fruit. GARDENI NG.—VII. THE TOOL HOUSE (continuedfrom p. 138). Prttning Scissors will be found handier than the knife at times, and for this reason we would include them in our catalogue of garden requisites. They are especially use- ful for trimming small currant and gooseberry bushes. The Hand-saw and Tenon-saw we have already described (p. 43); the former will be found useful in the garden for the removal of such branches as are too thick for the knife to separate ; the latter is frequently needed in grafting where the stock is of too tough a nature, or of too large a size to admit of the use of the pruning-knife. The Scythe-stone, or Rubber.—This is essential for keeping up a good edge to the blade of the scythe, which necessarily gets dulled by use, or injured by coming in contact with stones, &c., and requires sharpening. Most people know the old kind of stone or rubber used by mowers, which is of a very rough texture ; but there is now a better kind for garden purposes, that puts on a smoother edge, and consequently enables the mower to do his work cleaner and quicker. The above is usually carried in a kind of leather satchel or sling, supported by a strap over the shoulder. The rubber must never be used when wet, and must be handled gently, as it is very brittle. It is a good plan to wash it carefully when you have done with it, but you must remember to dry it before using. Shears (Fig. 8), which are neither more nor less than a large pair of scissors with long wooden handles in place of loops for the fingers, will be found of great service for clipping the borders of grass, box edgings, quick, and other hedges. The Dutch Hoe (Fig. i) is very useful for cutting up, or rather under-cutting weeds, and at the same time loosen- ing the surface of the soil. J'his implement should, however, be pushed before you at the depth of from one to two inches, so that it may cut up any weeds. Fig. 2 shows a drill hoe used for making shallow trenches for small seeds.