49 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC.—IV. ^HE TOOL-CHEST {continuedfrom p. 43). Saws.—For larger curves and coarser work, a strong, narrow, tapering blade, fixed into a handle, is used. This is called a compass-saw. For more elaborate curves, a narrow parallel blade, thinner on the back than in front, is stretched in a wooden frame. This is called a turning- saw, and a common arrangement is shown in Fig. 26. The blade. A, is fixed by a rivet at each end to the handles, B B, which are thrust through holes in the sides of the frame, C C. A centre bar, D, keeps this frame distended, and acts as a fulcrum, whereby the force generated by the twisting of the cord, E, is transmitted to the blade. The cord is twisted by the lever, F, and should consist of five or six turns of strong whipcord. The parts of the handles which go through the frame being cylindrical, they can be turned so as to put the blade in any required position to keep the frame out of the way of the work. The handle behind the pitch of the teeth—which is the one taken hold of—is usually larger than the one at the other end. A stronger and larger form of this kind of saw is much used on the Continent for all sorts of carpentry work, in place of our rip and half-rip saws. The turning-saw may be used to cut out spaces, by first boring a hole, into which the blade, released from one of the handles by taking out the rivet, is inserted. Of course, the limit of distance from the edge of the work at which these saws can act, is equal to the space between the blade and the centre bar, D. Fig. 27 is a diagram of the buhl-saw ; these saws are used for cutting delicate and elaborate patterns through thin materials, such as veneer for inlaying, and they are fitted in frames with very long backs of light metal, so that they 4 may take in work of some size. The blade is of extremely thin metal, with very fine teeth, so that if a pattern is sawn through two layers of veneer at once, one of light colour and the other dark, temporarily stuck together, with a piece of paper glued between them for the con- venience of separation, the pieces of each set would correspond and fit into the holes of the other, and vice versdj and so, with the one operation, two patterns are produced, one dark on light ground, and the other light on dark ground. The joints of the pattern are barely perceptible, owing to the extreme thinness of the saw. In use, this saw is held with the blade vertical, and the Fig. 29. handle below the work, and both frame and work are twisted about as the curves of the pattern require. The professed buhl cutter often uses a kind of wooden vice, one jaw of which acts with a treadle, in which case the work is in a vertical position, and the saw is held horizontally. Fig. 28 shows a common metal saw, which is a stout blade. A, of hard-tempered steel, thicker at the teeth edge than the back in order to allow clearage way, the teeth not being “ set,” fixed in a metal frame, B, in which it is strained by the nut, C. This saw is held by the handle in the right hand, and pushed forward with considerable force, the left hand being lightly pressed on the curve of Fig. 30. Fig. 31. the frame in order to steady the blade. These saws should be used as little as possible for cutting steel, which wears them out very quickly, and they are too hard to be filed up again economically. The ordinary forms of wood saws are sharpened wdth three-cornered files, known as saw files, which are moved rapidly to and fro over the front and back edges of the tooth. The blade of the saw E is held in a wooden vice, but an ordinary bench or tail- vice may be made to answer the purpose, if a couple of wooden clamps be placed in the jaws one on each side of the blade, otherwise the grating noise is almost unbear- able. Of circular or vertical machine saws, it will not be necessary to say anything here, as they will not be likely Battersea Public Library.