289 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. Fig. 4- HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART.—VIII. FEATHER SCREENS. Most of our readers have seen, no doubt, in the windows of bird-stuffers’ shops, screens made of the wings and head, with more or less of the breast feathers, and often the tails of different kinds of birds ; but few perhaps know how easily they are made by amateurs, and what exceedingly pretty screens may be produced with a comparatively small amount of trouble and practice (see Fig. i). The work is not beyond ordinary skill, and we have seen some very good ones made by ladies, though the sight of raw flesh, and the necessity of getting over scruples about touching it with the fingers, often deters them from attempting the neces- sary operations. We shall now give the result of our practical experience, and explain the de- tails of the manufacture step by step, assuming that the reader is totally ignorant of the art of bird-stuffing. The implements required are very simple, viz., a good strong penknife, very sharp at the point, a quill pen, a small quantity of flowers of sulphur, arsenical soap, wadding, or cotton wool, or tow, a smooth board, some twine, a darning- needle, some strong pins, a hammer, and some copper bell-wire. The pen is to be cut in the shape of a scoop or narrow spoon, and is used for removing the brains from the head of the bird, and for pressing the cotton wool or other mate- rial when saturated with arsenical soap, into the skull and other places. Arsenical soap can be obtained atalmost any chemist’s, and there are numer- ous recipes, all more or less valuable ; but the following is all that is really requisite for our present pur- pose :—Cut into thin slices or pieces three- quarters of a pound of common brown soap, put it into a pipkin or earthen jar with a little water, and stir it on the hob till it becomes of the consistency of paste or thick cream, then stir into it about half a pound of powdered white arsenic, and the mixture is ready for use. The first thing is to select a bird, and we need hardly say that it is useless (at any rate for a beginner) to attempt to do anything with a bird whose wing-feathers have been torn by shot, or whose head or neck is disfigured by blood. Some birds are, of course, more suitable for making screens than others, and some require a different treat- ment from others, and are more difficult to manage. There is also a particular season of the year when wild birds are in their best plumage, which does not apply to tame birds, but these are points we cannot now enter into. One of the birds most easily obtained is the common house-pigeon, and if carefully selected he will form as pretty a screen as any British bird we know of. Generally speaking, a male bird should be selected, the plumage being brighter. Assuming, then, that we have got our pigeon dead, and that he lies on his back on the table before us, the first thing to be done is to remove the wings, and this is done 19—N. s. by severing the muscles at the elbow-joint, and is most conveniently done from the inside of the wing. Fig. 2 will show the direction the cut should take, so as to get rid, as much as possible, of those portions which we do not want, and retain those we do want. In some birds, and for the purpose of making screens of a more fanciful shape, the wings may be taken off nearer the body of the bird ; but, we are assuming that this is a first attempt, therefore propose the easiest shape. The wings may now be laid aside for some days (if neces- sary), as it is not so important that they should be quite fresh for the purposes of our operations, as that the head should be in that state. Place the bird on its back with its head towards you, and a lead pincushion or other weight across its tail and feet to keep it steady; then raise the breast feathers about the place where you would expect to find the top of the merry-thought (as the furcula bone is called) and carefully holding back the feathers, cut the skin across with the point of your knife, taking care not to cut too deeply. Continue this cut on each side, slanting it downwards towards the head, so as to escape the wings ; then turn the bird over, and join the two cuts straight across the back. After this, re- place the bird in its former position, and by gentle pulling and cutting, the skin will come off very easily, inside out, over the head of the bird. A little stretching of the skin will be re- quired, and a little fur- ther use of the knife, when the skin of the neck has to be brought over the head, and care must be taken when you approach the ears of the bird, to cut the skin as deeply down into the orifice of the ear as possible, thus leaving only a very small hole. Imme- diately succeeding the ears the eyes will ap- pear, and here also care must be taken to avoid cutting the eye- lids, while the muscles which attach the lids to the circumference of the eyes will re- quire some sharp cuts with the point of the knife. During the whole of this operation, the skin, and, indeed, the flesh of the neck, may all from time to time be dusted with flowers of sulphur, which will prevent the feathers from getting spoilt by curling over and coming in contact with the flesh. If the bird has been shot, and the neck or skin shows traces of blood, it may be necessary to have a cloth at hand to wipe off the exudations as much as possible, or a piece of soft paper may be wrapped round the neck where the skin has been removed, and thus avoid any chance of spoiling your work. Having skinned down as far as the base of the beak, your bird will present an appearance like that seen in Fig. 3. The neck should now be severed from the head at the base of the skull, and all pieces of flesh or skin on the skull and jaws should, as far as possible, be scraped or cut off, taking care not to sever the joints where the lower jaw-bones are fixed to the head. The eyes must be care- fully cut round and taken out whole, and the brain scooped