135 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. premiums, will become entitled to a bonus, or addition to the sum assured, arising fromi the profits of the concern, and payable at death with the amount of the policy. The bonuses periodically allotted by life assurance companies owe their origin to the impossibility of assess- ing in anticipation the exact amount of premium required for each particular risk undertaken, and they depend in amount upon the success of the company, and the method of allotment, which varies greatly in different societies. To be on the safe side, therefore, it is usual to charge a larger premium than may ultimately be found to be necessary, so that due provision may be made for exces- sive mortality, and for other fluctuations in the business. A periodical return of profit is, therefore, made, which may be received as an addition to the sum assured at death, in a present cash payment, or in the shape of a corre- sponding annual reduction of the premium throughout life. The profits of a life assurance company depend upon the careful selection of lives (all bad lives admitted to par- ticipation in the benefits of the company naturally tending to reduce the rate of profit by their premature death), moderation in the expenditure, and particularly on the careful investment of the premiums at an adequate but safe rate of interest. And here we may give an illustration of the extra- ordinary increase of money at compound interest, by the operation of which principle alone the claims are pro- vided for as they become due. Upon reference to a table of interest, we find, that at 4 per cent.—the least rate likely to be obtained by an as- surance office—the amount of ;^i per annum in thirty years is ^56 ; in forty years, ^95 ; in fifty years, .^152 ; in sixty years, .^238, and so on. At 5 per cent, these amounts are increased respectively to ^66, .^120, £2og, and .!^353- Again, set aside at compound interest, at 4 per cent., more than doubles itself in eighteen years ; or, in fifteen years at 5 per cent., while in one hundred years, at 4 per cent interest, becomes ^50, and at 5 per cent., ^131. These plain figures will be sufficient to show the way in which the comparatively small annual payments made by the assured in life assurance companies, are swollen in the course of years by the operation of interest to the large sums paid as claims under the policies and as bonus additions thereon. It was explained above that the proportion of profits divided, by way of bonus, by the different companies, varies considerably. In the mutual societies, the whole of the profits belong to and are divided among the policy- holders. In the proprietary companies, the proportion allotted may be two-thirds, three-quarters, or four-fifths, or in other words, sixty-six, seventy-five, or eighty per cent.; but it should be remarked, that these proportions are not sufficient indications by themselves to decide the choice of an office, for it may easily be seen that two- thirds of a large amount of surplus, may exceed three- quarters, four-fifths, or even the whole of a lesser amount. It'was explained above that the bonus system originally arose from the impossibility, in the early days of assu- rance business, of assessing the exact amount of addition to the net premium for profit, bonuses, expenses of man- agement, and to provide a certain margin for safety, so as to guard against fluctuations in the mortality, which often differs greatly from year to year, and in the rate of interest the company is enabled to obtain for its investments, which is also an element that fluctuates with the ever-changing state of the money market, &c. &c. After some years’ experience, actuaries were enabled to determine with very considerable accuracy the amount of addition to the net premium that was really necessary ; but, by that time, the assured public having been led to look for these periodical additions to their policies, it was not easy to abolish the system of charging a larger premium than is commen- surate with the risk, for the purpose of returning a proportion thereof, in the shape of a bonus addition to the policies; and the constantly increasing competition among rival companies has tended to perpetuate the practice, which there is little expectation of now seeing changed. The bonus system has, at least, the advantage of benefiting the families of the assured, at the expense, it is true, of the larger outlay made by the policy-holder during his life. Most companies have, however, a non-participating scale of premiums, by which an additional sum can be assured in the first instance, being in fact, the sum that the differ- ence between the participating and non-participating rates of premium would assure, and thus an immediate rever- sionary bonus payable with the sum assured is provided, even if the death happens in the first year ; while, upon the bonus plan, the term of five or seven years, as the case may be, is required to be survived before the policy comes into participation at all. For example :—supposing the participating rate at the age of forty to be ^3 7s. \ \d., and the corresponding non- participating rate £2 lyr. ii<^. for every ;^ioo assured. The difference between these rates, viz. ; los., would assure an additional ^18. So that an immediate rever- sionary bonus of that amount would be secured to the policy-holder, payable whenever death might occur. This is not, however, a favourite method of assurance with the public, who do not avail themselves of the plan to any great extent, and probably for these two reasons, one being the fact that the non-profit rates are not generally as low as they should be, if they were equitably adjusted, as compared with those on the participating scale, and the other because the element of uncertainty and specula- tion is lost, which to so many persons has a great charm ; and certainly, though in the case of an early death, the interests of the policy-holder would be best met by the payment of the minimum premium, still, in the event of a life assured attaining an advanced age, the bonuses of the old-established companies, which are frequently of very large amount, would, probably, fully compensate for the excess of premium paid. It is far from unusual for more than £'^oo to be paid to the family of a deceased policy-holder for every ;^ioo assured, the annual premium having, in fact, been paid throughout the duration of the assurance for ^100 only. So valuable, indeed, have these bonuses on old policies of large amounts become, that a system of assuring the bonus itself has arisen in the practice of assurance compa- nies. In order to participate in each successive division of profits, it is required _ that the life assured should be living on a certain fixed day, and the failure of the life before that day—at any time, in fact, between two bonus periods—would involve the loss of the bonus to the family of the policy-holder. An assurance on his life for the amount of the anticipated bonus for the term of years re- quired to be survived, is accordingly frequently effected, the premium for which is often very high, as it is usually only in cases of extremely advanced age that this system is had recourse to. The older the life assured, the greater the risk of his losing the bonus, and the greater also his reluctance to run any risk in the matter. He therefore makes a sacrifice of a portion of the expected bonus, to secure the balance, as men do in some other precarious transactions. This assurance of the prospective bonus, is chiefly resorted to in those companies whose practice it is to allot the reversionary bonuses at each distribution of profit from the date of the policy, in each case—that is to say, at the rate of so much per cent, per annum—from the com* mencement of the assurance. It will be seen that upon this system the bonuses increase very largely from term to term, and that they may eventually become of extra- ordinary magnitude upon large assurances of long dura- tion. At such advanced ages the premium is, of course,