CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE, 79 upon it ; but be very careful 7iot to tnt?np your partner's trick—?.(?., not to play a trump upon it when he has already secured it, or when he has played the best re- maining card of a suit. When you “discard,” or throw out a worthless card upon a suit which you cannot follow, let it be the lotvest of its suit, or you will mislead your partner. But if you have only the second best card of a suit and one small one, do not discard the latter, but keep it to protect your second best in case the best should be played. If you have five trumps, lead one as soon as you can ; if four, keep them in for a time, to establish your strong suit. Narrowly watch the fall of trumps—who plays them, what cards they are, and how many have been played—so that you may be able to use your own to the best advantage. Do not play out your high cards of a suit in which your adversaries have shown strength ; but of any suit in which your partner appears strong, play them at the first opportunity. Secure the odd trick—that is, the seventh—if you possibly can, for it makes a dif- ference of two to the score. It puts you forward one point, and keeps your opponents one back. Conse- quently, when you have the chance of gaining it by playing a winning trump, do so without hesitation. But if your side has made six tricks, and you hold the ace of trumps, you are secure of the odd trick at any time, and consequently need not play it out" until other considera- tions render it advisable to do. Inferences.—Now as to some of the inferences which you have to draw in the progress of the game. The rules we have just given must be taken as the foundation of them, for you must suppose that your partner, if anything of a player, observes these, and plays accordingly. If, for instance, having an original lead, he plays trumps, you have a right to presume that he is very strong in them; and the same if he leads trumps early in the game. You must also conclude that when he takes a trick he does so with the lowest card he holds that will suffice for the purpose ; and thus, if he takes knave with ace, he can have neither queen nor king. It is most important thus to watch the play of your partner, and to play to his hand, as if yours and his were one. The chief feature of modern practice in whist, which distinguishes it from old-fashioned modes of playing the game, is that it aims to establish a code of signals between partner and partner, so tlrat each may have a clue, in the play, to what the other holds, and play to help him ; the advantage thus gained being considered to more than counterbalance the disadvantage of your opponents judging, by the same rules, what is held between you. Hence the importance of playing according to strict rule, so that your partner may infer correctly. The rules which lead you to in- ferences as to what your partner has in his hand will, of course, guide you in guessing what is held by your opponents. The maxim, however, that every rule has its exceptions, holds good with regard to whist. There are periods and crises in the play in which a player may be justified in disregarding recognised rules, for an exceptional hand or an exceptional case may obviously warrant play that is not countenanced by general law. To those who wish to understand what may be these exceptions, or to go more fully than we have space to do into the proper play of the game as applicable to various chances, we must commend the perusal of some of the modern treatises on whist, as it is played in the London clubs. We will now give a concise summary of the principal recognised LAWS OF THE GAME. Dealing.—The dealer must not shuffle the cards after the pack is cut; if he does, he loses the deal. If a card be faced—i.e., turned up on its face—during the deal, a new deal (by the same person) may be demanded. If the dealer look at the trump Card before it is properly dealt, a new deal may be requested The dealer forfeits his deal (which passes to the player on the left) under the follow- ing circumstances :—I. If the last card does not fall to the dealer ; unless it be found that the pack is imperfect. 2. Should one player have fourteen cards and another twelve. 3. Should the dealer place the trump-card face downwards on the table. 4. Should he deal two cards to one player and then a third to the next; but if he discovers the first error, he is allowed to alter it, by giving the two cards to the persons to whom they would properly have fallen. The Last or Trump Card.—The dealer must allow this to remain on the table, face upward, until he is called on to play to the first trick, when he should remove it to his own hand. No one may afterwards ask what was the turn-up card, but any one may inquire what is the trump suit. Exposed Cards.—A card dropped on the table, or exhibited, out of the order of play, is liable to be called ; that is, the adversaries may demand that it shall be played at any period of the game when it would not cause the holder to “ revoke.” If two cards are played instead of one, the adversaries may demand which they please to be played to that trick, and afterwards call for the other. If a player throw down his cards face upwards, they may all be called by his opponents. If a player lead out of his turn, the card thus exposed may be called for when it is his right turn to play ; or the adversaries may, instead, demand that either he or his partner, when it is his turn to lead, shall lead a particular suit. THE SOURCES OF OUR FOOD SUPPLY.—VI VEGETABLE PRODUCTS. Vegetable foods are divisible into nitrogenous and non- nitrogenous. All seeds and much vegetable tissue contain the former, whilst starch and sugar belong to the latter class : the former take the place of flesh, and the latter of fat, when used as food. They also contain various mineral salts which are required for building up the body, as well as many acids which are peculiar to them. It is therefore evident, as chemistry as well as experience shows, that persons can live on vegetables alone ; but it is probable that they require a greater expenditure of vital force in converting them into animal tissues tham is necessary for meat or fish. Vegetables are also longer in being digested, even when well cooked, and must be eaten in much larger quantities, as they contain a larger proportion of indiges- tible matters. A vegetable diet is therefore best suited for those whose digestion is active, and who can take a large bulk of food. The produce of grain and green crops vary according to the weather, as whilst a hot season is generally favour- able to the former, a cold and wet season is best suited for the latter. The proportionate value of the grain crops in the United Kingdom is about one-fourth of the total harvest, and is generally under ^30,000,000 in value against about ^260,000,000 for the remainder, when the value of the grass eaten by cattle is taken into account, as there were in 1875 only 3,514,088 acres under wheat, against 5,057,029 acres of green crops, above 6,000,000 acres of grass land, 69,172 acres of hops, nearly 24,000,000 acres of permanent pasture, and above 2,500,000 acres ot orchards, market gardens, nursery gardens, woods, and plantations. It is therefore evident that a full crop of v/heat is much less important, as regards the produc- tion of food, than of other produce. This is especially noteworthy, as reliable statistics show that in 1875 the value of the wheat grown was about ^22,000,000, whilst wheat, wheat-meal, and flour were imported to the amount of ^632,300,000. In 1876 the imports were not so great, that of wheat being valued at ^23,140,766; of wheat flour, ^4,729,206—giving a total of ^627,869,972. This large importation of wheat has been coincident