CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. INTRODUCTION. In an age when, owing to the spread of education and the consequent growth of intelligence and of competition, the affairs of human life are becoming iri every depart- ment more intricate and complicated, no apology can be needed for an endeavour to set out accurately, and in something like scientific order, the laws which govern, and the rules which should regulate, that most necessary and most important of all human institutions. The Household. It is there that the fruits of man’s labour are ultimately enjoyed ; there that woman finds her chief sphere of duty, as the helpmate of man ; there that the coming generation is being trained for the duties of life. It is there, then, if anywhere, that the secret of man’s material well-being should be sought and its principles carried into constant practice. The lesson, above all others, which is required to be learnt in the present day, is the good old homely one that wealth is to be found not in the possession of a large income, but in the possession of a surplus after the income has been made to meet the necessary demands upon it. He who earns a hundred a year and spends ninety, is really richer than he who earns two hundred and spends two hundred and ten. And it not unfrequently happens that where the resources of the household are judiciously husbanded, a relatively smaller income is found to yield more solid results than a larger one. Domestic comfort, in short, together with all the benign influences that flow therefrom, as health, good spirits, equability of temper, clearness of head, prudence in enterprise, happi- ness in the home circle, and the esteem of one’s neigh- bours, centres in the practice of a wise e’conomy—in the thoughtful and intelligent fittingTf means to ends, so as to secure the most advantageous results at the lowest possible cost. More especially is this so at a time when a deeper investigation of the laws of health has brought into pro- minence the necessity of increased recreation, and longer and more frequent migrations into purer atmospheres— desiderata which, when men have moderate incomes, can be supplied only by a prudent curtailment of expenditure in other directions. For we believe it will be found by many that when they have learnt how to obtain economi- cally the necessaries of the household, and to do for themselves what hitherto they have had to get done by expensive assistance, they will have in every case some- thing left with which they can augment the convenience, the comfort, and possibly even the luxury of their house and living—bettering at once their mode of life and their measure of enjoyment. , Management is the one thing needful in the house- hold. No matter what the amount of income may be, everything depends upon the careful laying out of the money. In one house the owner always seems to get full value for his outlay; in another it is difficult to imagine where the money expended goes, the apparent return is so inadequate. And this difference does not always and of necessity spring from recklessness, or even from carelessness in management; far more frequently it is owing to the want of an intelligent appreciation of the way in which the available resources can be best turned to account. To supply, in a plain, practical, and exhaustive manner, this information, which otherwise must be ineffectively obtained by long and wearisome experience, is the object of The Household Guide. We shall take up in suc- cession each department of domestic and social economy and the various branches of household management, showing in every case how true economy can be practised —how by the 7ninimum of expenditure the maximum of comfort and of luxury may be obtained, j The House itself will be treated in the threefold I aspect of a building, a possession, and a home. Those ! who are about to take a house for the first time, or to ; change their present residence for another, will find in- i formation as to the points to which they ought to look as ' essential in regulating their choice, what evils they ought I specially to avoid, and how such evils may most readily ! be detected. Those who are already occupying houses 1 which they are unable or unwilling to leave, will find j advice as to the best plan for remedying or removing I existing defects which are making their houses unhealthy ! or uncomfortable. We shall also explain, in language as free as possible from technicality, those points of law with which it is desirable that the occupiers of houses or, masters of households should be fully acquainted. In the articles on Furniture, information will be given as to what sort of furniture in each part of the house will be found most economical, durable, and pleasing, both in colour, material, shape, and texture. Under this head we shall include some of the simplest branches of the decorative art, a knowledge of which will enable our readers to find amusement and gratifica- tion in the exercise of their taste and ingenuity. The papers upon COOKERY will constitute a practical, simple, and complete work upon the subject in every de- partment, commencing with recipes for the most ordinary and homely operations, and proceeding gradually to the highest and most elaborate branches of the culinary art.