?78 HOUSEHOLD AMUSEMENTS. ' HOUSEHOLD AMUSEMENTS.—VIII. THE CAME OF WHIST (continued from f. 263). We have at present described the mere routine of whist— ihe apportionment of the cards, the order in which they are ])laycd, and the ultimate object of the game, namely, to 5Core a certain number of points before your opponents. This object, it will have been seen by those who have followed us attentively, may be gained either by chance or by skill, or by both combined. It may be gained by chance, when an extraordinary number of good cards fall to one player, or to one side, in the course of a deal, so that if the partners on that side know anything at all of the game, they must win, be their opponents as skilful as they jnay. For instance, we have twice, in actual play, seen all the honours and the two next best cards fall to a single player, enabling him, apart from any help by his partner, or from any assistance derived from his seven other cards, to secure six tricks to a certainty, and to count four towards game by honours after tricks were reckoned, but such an incident is rare. On the whole, the cards fall to each side with tolerable equality, and skill as a rule gets the best of the game. Skill at whist may be reduced to two primary principles —judgment, when to play out and when to keep in such cards as you may have in your hand, and memory, of what cards have already been played, and by whom; more or less of the latter quality being indispensable for tlie direction of the former. Other faculties, such as cpiick observation, and the power to draw from what is played a correct inference as to the object and the resources of the player, have also an important part to perform ; making whist, to those who study it for its own sake, a highly ii>tcllectual exercise, and profitable in its place, as a means of drawing out and cjuickening the mental powers. As regards the inferences to be drawn, there are certain rules, hereafter to be mentioned, the knowledge of which will greatly assist the most inexperienced. As to judgment and memory, a player must learn to cultivate his own natural gifts by practice. Some persons have been known to recollect, at any part of a hand, every card that was played, and who played it; and to be able to tell by inference, befora,the last trick is played, who holds each of the remaining cards. But we do not recommend anyone to attempt to perform such feats of intellectual gymnastics. Wiiist, we hold, like all other games, should be kept in its proper place as a recreation, and not made to absorb an amount of time and study which is better devoted to other- purposes. We will now give a few instructions as to playing out the cards in a hand, according to the learner’s position at the table. First Player.—The first player, at the commencei-nent of the hand, having what is called the “ original lead,” should lead a card from his strongest suit ; namely, that in which he finds the most or the highest cards. If he has a sequence of high cards ; that is, a succession of ace, king, queen, &c., he should lead from it, beginning with the highest. If he holds several small ones h.c should begin with the lowest. If he has ace, and four or more small cards of a suit, he should play the ace, for that will probably make the trick ; but if he reserves it, the suit may be trumped in the second i-ound, and his ace will be m.dcss. The lead of the first player is understood to be an indication to his partner as to where his strength lies ; aiul his partner, if an experienced player, will consequently u I urn the lead ; that is, play a card of the same suit when he gets the 0])portunity. The same rule holds good as to Ituds later in the game ; always lead to your partner’s iumd when ) Our own strength is doubtful or exhausted. Do not return t!.e leads of your opponents, and do not change tlej suit with \v'hich you or your partner commenced until compelled to do so. If you have ace and queen in your hand, do not lead from that suit if you can avoid it. The reason is that, in the course of the play, you may be able to take a trick with the queen, and afterwards play the ace, or to capture the opponents’ king with your ace, and then play the queen ; but if you have ace, queen, knave, you may lead the ace and afterwards the queen. If your opponents have trumped your strong suit or your partner’s, lead trumps, if you have four or more. Do not lead the last card left of a suit until all the trumps are played. Second Player.—The second plays his lowest card of the suit led, unless he possesses strength which it is desirable to utilise at once. Thus, if he hold king and queen, or ace and queen, he should play the queen ; but if he pos- sesses one only of those cards, he should retain it and leave the chance of taking the trick to his partner. If he hold a sequence of two or more winning cards in the suit led, he should play the lowest. This is of consequence, as his partner will thereby be able to infer that he possesses a higher, and play accordingly; whereas, if the second played his highest, there would be no clue as to where the next highest might be. To make this the more clear, we will suppose A, the eldest hand, to have played a low diamond ; B, second player, having king and queen, plays the queen. C may have the ace, and if he plays it on the queen, he still leaves B in possession of the winning card for the next round of that suit. But D may have the ace, and in that case he withholds it, as his partner will already have won the trick with the queen. In any case D sees that the king cannot be in the hand of C, or he would have played it ; and hence he infers positively that it must be with his partner B, or he would not have played out his queen so early. Considerations like these are impor- tant, making all the difference between skill in the game and the want of it. If you cannot follow the suit led, throw out one of your worst cards in another suit, unless you have reason to believe that your partner cannot take the trick, when you will do well to play a trump. Third Player.—The general rule for the third player is to play his highest card, unless a higher is played before him. Thus he not only stands a good chance of winning the trick, but also assists his partner in his game, for he makes known to him where the strength of the suit lies. An exception to this rule is when the third hand holds ace and queen, or king and knave after ace has been played. He may then, if he think proper, finesse—that is, put on the lower of the two, risking the possibility of the trick being taken by the last player, as the chances are that the intermediate card is not in his but in one of the other hands. Fourth Player.—Of him little need be said, for his task is easy. If his partner has already secured the trick he can play a worthless card, if not, he wins it if he can, and by the lo'ivest card that will suffice for the purpose. The case that gives frequent room for doubt in the mind of the fourth player is when he has none of the suit left, the trick being against him, and hesitates to sacrifice a good trump to win the trick before him ; or when a high trump has been played by an opponent, and he must play a still higher one to take it; for he may desire to retain his trumps in order to bring in a strong suit, or may hold one or two —such as ace and king—which he knows will secure tricks at any period of the game. In such a case, as well as in many others which occur at whist, the old rule of Hoyle is the best guide—“When In doubt, win the trick;" and this rule should be observed at any period of the game. Tlic following are other general rules for the guidance of the player, whatever his position, in playing to a trick :— General Rules.-—When you have only two or three small trumps in your hand, make them as soon as you can get the opportunity—that is, if your opponents lead a suit which you cannot follow, play one of your small trumps