CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 195 to this instead of to three balls. The way of making these centres will soon be given. When the damask-rose petals are cut out, they must be all of the deepest and brightest red paper, and of one colour. Before crimping or goffering them, mix some powder carmine with a little gum in a saucer, and with a camel’s-hair brush of medium size paint them well, the three first sizes entirely on the right side, and the two largest half way down; after which they must be allowed to dry thoroughly. COOKERY.—XII. MUSHROOMS AND PICKLES. Broiled Mushrooms are best done in a dish, in the oven of a cooking-stove, or before a brisk fire in an American oven. On the gridiron, they are difficult to keep from breaking and losing their juice before they are done enough. Select mushrooms completely opened, free from grit and maggots, and yet nearly arrived at ma- turity. Respecting these, Mr. Alexander Forsyth says, “The small mushrooms so much prized in noblemen’s families for bottling, are by no means thrifty as food for working people, bearing as they do the same relation to full-grown mushrooms that well-fed veal does to beef. When the gill of the mushroom has got its rich colour and its delicious odour, and whilst the curtain hangs round the outer edge like a fringe, the mushroom is in perfection, and all that it then requires is heat enough to cook it, and a little salt to eat it with ; and with such a sauce as this, dry bread or boiled potatoes are able to do the work of a rich meal at a very small cost. If you look at some fields in autumn, the crop of mushrooms reminds you of the manna that the people gathered every morning ; and, at the present high prices of flesh-meat, a good dish of savoury mushrooms would be to many a poor person as if the windows of heaven had indeed been opened to them. The common field-mushroom is easily known by its flesh-coloured gill and its sweet smell. The Scotch bonnets {Agaricus oreades) are easily told ; and although they look a little coarse, they are quite safe to be eaten.” Peel off the upper thin skin from your mush- rooms, remove the stalks, and lay them in your dish flat on their backs. On each lay, according to their size, several little bits of butter as big as hazel-nuts, dust slightly with pepper and salt, and set into the oven. As soon as the gills drop and their juice runs from them (in from seven to fifteen minutes) they are done enough ; serve in the dish in which they are cooked. If the oven is fierce you may cover that dish with another on setting in. Stewed Mushrooms.—Mushrooms in any eatable stage make good stews ; we prefer a mixture for the sake of the catchup from the elderlies, and of the pleasant fleshiness of the younger samples, amongst which a fair proportion of buttons may be admitted. Prepare as before, removing the stalks from the advanced mushrooms only. Put them in a saucepan with a little good broth and its floating fat, a bit of butter, and a parsimonious sprinkling of pepper and salt. Set them on the fire ; when they begin to warm, close down the lid to keep in the steam ; give a toss and a shake from time to time. In about ten minutes they will be tender and juicy ; serve garnished with buttered toast in small squares or triangles. Mushroom Catchup' {Practical and Good). — The quantity of catchup yielded by mushrooms, and the pro- portion of salt to make it with, depend entirely on the weather : if rainy, they will be full of juice; if dry, they may contain very little. Over half a bushel of mush- rooms throw, say, three handfuls of salt, and break them up with a wooden spoon ; taste them the second day to know if they are salt enough. If you have more mush- rooms come in, you may add them to the first from time to time. Leave them in salt two, three, and four days, frequently stirring, /.<?., three or four times a day. Then squeeze them through a cloth, so as to get all the liquor from them. Boil this liquor half an hour. When you set it on the fire, add for each half-bushel of mushrooms two ounces of bruised ginger, the same each of whole pepper and allspice, four ounces of cloves, a quarter of an ounce of mace, six shalots, and two or three cloves of garlic, both chopped small. The object of these last is to give a relish without their being actually tasted; some cooks overdose their catchup with cloves, but if it is to taste of nothing but spice, the mushrooms, in point of fact, might be omitted. After the half-hour’s boiling strain off the spice, and let the catchup stand to settle; when cool, bottle it off into bottles containing half a pint at the very most, and seal the corks in the way to be shortly indicated. When you are able to gather mushrooms your- self, do not pull them up by the root, but cut them off just above it with a very sharp knife, for two reasons ; first, the mould adhering to the root will fall amongst the gills of your mushrooms, and render them too gritty for eating —you cannot cleanse them from that grit. Secondly, mush- rooms mostly grow in clusters, especially when cultivated ; by pulling up a mushroom you disturb the roots of the whole cluster, and prevent the development of several that would otherwise come on; whereas, by cutting, there is no disturbance of the roots, and the successional mushrooms follow in due course. Do not throw mushrooms pell-mell into a basket, but deposit them in regular layers with the top downwards and the gills and stalk uppermost; they will carry much better so, and make fresher-looking specimens. Mushroom Toast.—Peel off the thin upper skin from your mushrooms, and cut short the stalks. Set them on the fire in hot vinegar and water. As soon as they have boiled up once or twice, take them out, let drain, set them on the fire in a saucepan with a lump of butter, toss them well in it, dust in flour, moisten sparingly with good stock broth, season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a morsel of garlic. When the stew boils take it off the fire, thicken with egg-yolks and a teaspoonful of vinegar. Pour the whole over a large round of buttered toast, and serve hot. Pickled Mushrooms.— Housekeepers often complain of the difficulty of keeping pickled mushrooms, especially middle-sized ones (not buttons), from moulding; never- theless, while the season lasts, it is convenient to lay in a stock of both, using the larger mushrooms first, and reserving the pickled buttons. Procure either of them as fresh as may be ; cut off the root only of the stalks of the buttons, and wipe off with a cloth any soil that may adhere to them. Set on the fire enough vinegar to cover them, with salt and spices ; as with catchup, the latter must not be in excess, or they will completely extinguish the mushroom flavour. When the vinegar approaches boiling, throw in the buttons, and let them boil two or three minutes ; then take them out, put them in small, %uar7ned, wide-mouthed bottles, pour the hot spiced vinegar over them, and cork them provisionally. Next day fill up with some of the reserved vinegar, till it will all but touch the bottom of the cork ; the second day do the same, if there is any vacancy, so as to leave as little air in the bottles as possible. Then cork down for good and all, and hermetically seal the tops of the corks. When a bottle is once opened it should be speedily consumed; you may therefore, without wastefulness, liberally dose your mushroom sauce with buttons. For open mush- rooms, which should not be too forward (pink or liver- coloured rather than black), peel off the thin outer skin, remove the stalk, cut the top into convenient sized pieces, put them into ^vanned, open-mouthed bottles, and pour over them hot vinegar, salted and spiced. Then treat as above. Wax for sealing Pickle-jars and Bottles. — In an