CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 349 method of playing the game, as it is easier than starting impromptu dialogue. All that is necessary is for the characters to dispose themselves in successive groups in which the various syllables of the word are more or less clearly expressed. The meaning should not be too palpable, but afford a little room to the spectators to task their ingenuity in guessing the word represented. HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART.—XII. INDIAN JARS FOR POT POURRI. Large jars suited to stand in the cor- ners of rooms can, with a little trouble and not much cost, be made to appear as handsome ornaments. They should be a couple of feet high, of common red clay. They may be procured at many large grocers’; but at the potteries, if any one takes the trouble to write, they can be made for a small cost. Any large china vendor can give his customers the address of the potteries. The jar must next be painted some pale colour—a light, delicate sea-green,or pea-green, or friar’s grey is a good shade. It must be very pale and delicate. Next beg or buy a number of scraps of chintz. The Cre- tonne chintz now made, and covered with strange, apocryphal birds and im- aginary monsters, is largely used for the purpose. The greater the variety and the brighter the colours the better. When you have a sufficient assortment ready, with strong | gum arrange them according to taste all over the jars, j being very sure that all the little bits, corners, and stalks arc quite fixed down. An old cambric handkerchief is wanted to dab down the chintz to the jar. When quite dry and perfectly fixed, have the jars varnished, or varnish them at home with gum copal dissolved in tur- pentine by gentle boiling. Take care not to let the tur- pentine ignite. Varnish can be bought, but it is difficult to procure it pure, and it is expensive ; but for those unused to handle combustible materials, it is safer to buy than to make it. The varnish is applied with a large brush, going all over the jar with bold strokes, and never touching any part a second time whilst wet. When dry, give another coat. Repeat the coats till the appearance pleases. It should not be too thick, or else it will crack. Whilst varnishing the jars, keep them in an empty room, free from dust. Put rose-leaves or pot pourri in the jars, and place ornamental saucers on the top. By obtaining vases of various forms from different sources, and select- ing suitable cuttings, very tasteful and useful articles may be made in this way. But the house- hold decorator should remember that he may publish either his or her good or bad taste to all observers according to the selection of patterns which he makes and the mode in which he uses them when cut out. No one who is in the habit of examining attentively the objects of art manufacture exposed in the windows of our “fashionable houses” can have failed to notice the mixed and incongruous character of our modern decorative designs. Variety is, undoubtedly, a most essential prin- ciple of decoration, but the variety we speak of does not arise out of the design itself, but results from the mixture of good designs with others decidedly bad, and is by no Battersea means desirable. And yet there is scarcely a warehouse window in our most fashionable London streets which does not exhibit, in juxtaposition with good or passable designs, others which indicate the utter absence of artistic taste. As guides for our readers in this question of taste we append two cuts. Fig. i is a Greek vase taken from the original in the British Museum, in which the orna- ments are very symmetrical and beauti- ful, and their arrangement such as har- moniously belong to the shapes they decorate. Fig. 2 is an Indian water- goblet, displaying the same evidence of correct taste in ornamentation. Our readers could have no better guides. DOMESTIC MEDICINE.—XL BILIOUSNESS OR BILIOUS DISORDERS, INCLUDING JAUNDICE (continued from p. 335). Everybody thinks himself a physician for this complaint. Of all theories that occur to people to explain little errors of their health, none occurs more commonly than that of Bile—“it’s only bile.” No organ of the body has more blame laid upon it than the liver. It is the best abused organ in the body. It is a curious fact, but one that may often be noticed, that ailing people seem to derive great satisfaction from thinking, or being told, that their “ liver is affected.” What makes this more curious is the fact that though the liver is a large organ, and though it secretes about two pounds or two pounds and a half of bile every day, of a dark golden brown colour, the wisest people are still very uncertain about the uses of this big organ and all the bile that is formed in it. It is often the case, however, that what learned men know least about ignorant men talk most about. It is easy to talk glibly about that of which little is known. Let us try to tell our readers what little is made out as to the uses of the liver, or rather of the bile that flows out of it into the intestine just below the stomach. First, the bile in some way or other assists digestion. It especially assists the digestion of oily matters. Then, though it is not necessary to the digestion of meat and eggs, and such like (albuminous) substances, it is necessary to prevent the putrefac- tion of these in the intestines. Thirdly, it removes from the blood things that would injure the system if there were no liver to remove them. Fourthly, it contributes something to the formation of the motions from the bowels, but not so much as used to be thought. A great part of the bile that is formed in the liver and thrown out into the intestines is absorbed again into the system from the intestines—not thrown out of the body with the motions. Some cases of disease of the liver occur in which no bile is fornied in it. The bile is retained in the blood. If this disease is extreme and intense—that is, if no bile is separated from the blood, the chances are that the patient will die heavy and in a deep sleep. For if the urine or the bile, instead of being separated from the blood, are left in it, they act as poisons, and cause either convulsions or coma ; that is, insensibility and death. Let us now try to describe the two common cases of iaunjice_and the so-caJ];pd bilious_attacks.