THE HORSE. 298 during the Crusades to the East, from which cause mutual benefit was derived both to England and Flanders, Arabs doubtless returning to both countries. The rest of the Continental breeds from which we have gained most benefit, but which we have long ago repaid m kind, are the Norman, Hanoverian, and Spanish. It does not appear that we owe anything to Prussia or Austria ; they, on the contrary, are greatly our debtors for the best horses they possess. The Flemish Horse is generically a heavy horse, with a magnificent crest, broad chest, small head, and round “barrel.” His legs are small for the weight he has to carry. He has high and good action, and properly crossed, makes a valuable carriage horse. We have travelled in Flemish diligences, which were very heavy, nearly as fast as on our own stage-coaches—certainly eight miles an hour. The Norman Horse came to us in great numbers with William the Conqueror. He was pre-eminently the war- horse of that period, and must have been used for all purposes of state. He was occasionally mixed with French and Spanish breeds ; the latter adding quickness to his great strength. Considering what he had to carry in the way of armour and heavy arms, the latter quality was the less indispensable of the two. The Hanoverian Horses are very large, and, covered with harness, look handsome and showy. They have high crests, small heads, and very luxuriant manes and tails, and are almost invariably black and sleek in coat. But they have great faults; bad shoulders and small back ribs, and their muscular development is very light. We have seen the Queen’s, which are not free from the national imperfections. Those which are in this country are usually met with in the hands of the undertakers. The Spanish ‘yen7iet was (and is, we believe) a very quick and useful little horse, combining great courage vdth extreme good temper, which makes it so valuable as a lady’s horse. Many of these horses are said to have found their way into this country at the time of the Spanish Armada, A.D. 1588, having been cast ashore and secured by the English. The cross is said to have been most serviceable, as, indeed, it must have been while horsemanship was in high repute, and race-courses were being established both in this country and Scotland, at a time when the Arab was not introduced—that attempt not being made until the following reign, when James I. obtained what is known as the Markham Arabian, and Place’s White Turk, so called from his original owner. The Spanish horse, however, has long ceased to influence the English breed, but is too prominent in romance and history to be passed over. The British Horse, with something of his history and varieties, must form a part of our introductory article. The earliest notice of any kind of British horse is to be found in CaesaPs description of the invasion of these islands, for even then the Briton was a horseman, and, according to a partial judge, a good one. This horse could not have been, as he is sometimes represented, small, and similar to the Shetland or mountain pony of Wales, because he was manifestly capable of drawing the chariots of war on unmade roads, heavy and cum- brous as they were, and of carrying the warrior. He had certainly not yet attained the strength and size which later cultivation gave him, but he must have been much more like our galloway or cob. Caesar is reported to have taken back several with him to Rome. Roman cavalry was not a strong arm of the service, and when England was garrisoned by Roman soldiers the advantage of the crosses was about mutual. Athelstane improved the English breed by presents of French horses which he accepted from Hugh Capet, King of France. William I., as we have seen, introduced the Norman, and John the Flemish elements in our breed ; and the first Arab had been previously brought in by Henry I., A.D. 1120. The encouragement given to horse-breeding by the Edwards arose from their love of tournaments and their talents for war ; and during this period the native breeds increased in size and strength, as well as by the judicious introduction of Spanish and French blood They had increased in value from 30s., in the reign of Athelstane, fo £,1) 6s. 8d. in that of Edward III. Henry VIII. enacted arbitrary but salutary laws for the encourage- ment of our horses, and despotically forbade the use of all inferior classes for breeding. We can give, too, some idea of the size of our horses at this time by telling the reader that the nobility and gentry were compelled to keep a certain number of entire horses of not less than fottrteen hatids high, obviously for the propagation of larger stock than the ponies and galloways, which were considered indigenous. There happened then what we fear is happening now, a great exportation of the best horses by the foreigners—for in Elizabeth’s reign it was with difficulty that a supply equal to the demand could be obtained; and as coaches were invented, increased substance and increased numbers were called for. The Stuarts and Cromwell both encouraged the promotion of sport, we believe, from different causes ; but there can be no doubt that after the civil war the great impetus, which we feel to the present day, was given to improve- ment in breeding. Newmarket became the centre of racing, and in Anne’s reign the last seal was set upon it by the introduction of the Darley Arabian. He was bought from a merchant of that name in Aleppo, and became the sire of Flying Childers. This is said to have been the fastest and most enduring horse that ever ran. He did the round course at Newmarket (3 miles 6 furlongs and 93 yards) in 6 minutes and 40 seconds; and the Beacon course (4 miles i furlong and 138 yards) in 7 minutes and 30 seconds. The royal mares imported by Charles II. with Place’s White Turk, laid the foundation of our thorough-bred stock, and through it of our pre-eminence as horsemen and horse-breeders. From that time the descent of our best horses has to be recorded from the Byerley Turk through Herod ; from the Godolphin Arabian through Matchem ; and from the Darley Arabian through Eclipse. In this blood, or strain, is to be found that of all the great horses of this country, and, consequently, from them are descended, by provincial sires, the ordinary classes of hacks, hunters, and harness horses, which do not claim to be pure descendants from other Eastern, Western, or Continental breeds. The Scotch Galloway was by some writers supposed to be indigenous to Scotland. He has existed there as long as we have any records of the horse in the British Isles at all. Those who refer him to Spanish origin can have no knowledge of the Spanish horse. He is now seldom to be met with, though a clever useful sort of pony. The Shetlajid, or Sheltie, of which we give an engraving, is very small, but very handsome; short on the leg, muscular, active, and intelligent. Horses of this breed have small heads, very long manes and tails ; are tractable and courageous. They were formerly to be met with frequently at country fairs. We have seen them sold for ^3 and for ;;^40. Another sort, called the Highland pony, is mentioned ; but he differs little from the Shetlander. He is rather taller, but not stronger. As he is a clever jumper and creeper, he is valuable for the moors and the stubbles. The New Forest Pony, and the Exmoor or Devonshire Pony, are both good in their way—the latter is especially esteemed in his own county—but they are too small for general riding, excepting by very short men, or children. They are docile, and the latter is fast under a heavy weight. The Welshman is the most useful of all these littk horses. He is usually from thirteen to fourteen hands