CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 253 as whitlows, there being heat, redness, and tenderness of the part, followed by a throbbing pain, and tension of the skin from the presence of matter within. Poulticing and fomentations form the appropriate treatment, and, if pur- sued long enough, will no doubt lead to the breaking of the abscess and the relief of the patient. Many days will, however, be consumed in the process, during all which the patient will be worn out with pain and want of rest, whilst a momentary incision by a surgeon’s skilful hand will give immediate and permanent relief. It is very mis- taken kindness for the friends to abet a patient in refusing to submit to a moment’s pain in order to obtain a cure; and the patient is usually ready enough to express grati- tude to those who have been “ cruel only to be kind,” the moment the relief is experienced. Milk Abscess is one of the most common forms of abscess, and is met with in mothers who either have been obliged to wean their child suddenly, or who suffer from “sore nipples,” which incapacitate them from nursing. Sore or chapped nipples are more apt to arise after a first than after a subsequent confinement, and may be generally avoided by taking the precaution to harden the nipple by bathing it with weak brandy and water for a few days before the birth of the child. If the nipple is very much flattened, it should be drawn out with a breast-pump or glass, or a healthy child of a few months old may be put to the breast as soon as there is any milk. When the nipple has unfortunately become sore, the best plan is to protect it with a nipple-shield of glass, and to dry it thoroughly after being used. Almost any stimulating lotion will then effect a cure: borax, alum, or white vitriol, in solution, are all favourite remedies ; but perhaps the most successful is the application of a solution of nitrate of silver (two grains to the ounce of water) with a camel’s-hair brush, three or four times during the day. When from any cause a mother is unable to nurse her child, the breast is apt to become gorged with milk, and unless this is got rid of, inflammation and abscess are pretty sure to follow. By the use of the breast-pump, or gentle and equable pressure with the hands, much relief can be afforded, and attention must then be directed to diminishing the flow of milk to the breast by rubbing it with warm sweet oil, or better, by smearing it with extract of bella- donna mixed with equal parts of glycerine. At the same time the diet of the patient should be reduced, and a dose of Epsom salts given every morning. By these means a milk-abscess may often be averted, particularly if the breast is well supported in a sling, arranged as follows :— A large handkerchief being folded so as to form a triangle, should be applied obliquely across the chest, with the straight part immediately below the breast, one end passing over the opposite shoulder, and the other through the arm- pit of the same side, and the two being tied behind the back. The handkerchief being now slightly unfolded, can be made to support the breast comfortably at any height desired, and the top corner can be brought up over the shoulder, and fastened round the neck, as shown in the illustration. But if an abscess unfortunately forms, as will be known by the occurrence of a shivering fit and the throbbing pain in the breast, the advice of a surgeon should be immediately sought, if it has not been before, in order that he may give relief by an early incision. The patient is often so much reduced by the pain she has undergone as to be unable to nerve herself to sustain this necessary operation, unless her friends are very firm in supporting the surgeon in doing his duty. A milk- abscess, like any other, may, as already mentioned, break under prolonged poulticing, but only at the expense of great suffering and very considerable permanent damage to the breast, owing to the matter burrowing in several directions. In some cases it may be advisable to administer chloroform to the patient before interfering surgically, but the necessity and advisability of this must be left entirely to the medical man. Boils are very common, and very painful affections, and are usually found in persons who have got into a low state of health. A boil very generally begins in a little pimple, and if this is protected from irritation by being covered with a piece of soap-plaister, whilst the general health is improved by change of air and altered diet, very probably there will be no further trouble. If, however, a regular boil forms with a red surface and great tenderness, it had better be poulticed, and either allowed to break, or—a great saving of time and pain—a narrow knife or a sharp blade of a pair of slender scissors being pushed into the centre of it, and to the depth of half an inch, will allow the matter to escape with im- mediate relief. Prolonged poulticing of a boil is apt to bring out a crop of troublesome pimples around it, and it is well, therefore, to protect the sur- rounding parts with a piece of linen in which a hole is cut to fit the inflamed surface and allow of the poultice reach- ing it. When a boil has broken, it heals up readily enough under any simple dressing—either a little sper- maceti ointment or a piece of wet lint under oil-silk. The nostrums vulgarly employed to “ bring boils to a head”—such as soap and sugar, or the yellow basilicon ointment— are useless, and much better avoided, as they only serve to irritate the skin. Carbtincles are much more serious affections than boils, which, however, they much resemble, except in being I larger, and therefore more dangerous to the patient. Car- I buncles usually attack the nape of the neck, the back, &c., in old people, and as the most careful treatment of these affections is required from their very commencement, no time should be lost in consulting a medical man. COOKERY.—XV. BROTHS. In England, a large quantity of good wholesome broth is thrown away, or given to the pigs. The poor will hardly accept it as an addition to their usual faie ; they only care to have it when they are ill, to be taken medi- cinally, as a sudorific. On the other hand, in the south of France especially, no broth that is eatable is wasted. Even after boiling fish, the liquor is carefully set aside, for the purpose of making bouilli-baisse and other fish-soups. It is on account of the uneatableness of the broth and its consequent loss, that smoked and salted meats are less economical for family use than fresh meats. Through the peculiar manner in which they must be boiled, a great quantity of nutriment passes into the broth, which is therefore absolutely unusable. Not only is the liquid too