CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 17 THE AQUARIUM.—I. As the study of all animal and vegetable life presents to the mind a special and elevating influence in addition to the interest it excites, it is a subject for personal gratitude, that the principles upon which the structure of the aquarium is founded have been so carried out and simplified, that this little world in miniature may be adapted to any scale, and that in place of the bowl in which gold-fish were formerly imprisoned and doomed to a slow consumptive death, we can adorn the parlour window with a self- renovating, self-sup- porting lake, in which the denizens of the water imbibe their natural food, and breathe the gases necessary to their healthy existence. To the hard-work- ing town dweller, who seldom sees the country, or has an opportunity of wit- nessing the interest- ing operations of na- ture, an aqua-viva- rium must be espe- cially entertaining, and, as in the course of our papers we hope to prove, easily attainable, being neither expensive to form nor difficult to manage. The first matter essential to be un- derstood is the prin- ciple upon which the aquarium should be managed. To sup- port animal life cer- tain natural opera- tions must be car- ried on, and upon the proper provision for these, success will depend. If a gold- fish be placed in a “globe” of water, it will at first glide comfortably round, about half-way be- tween the surface and the bottom, but after a few hours it will become languid, -get nearer to the surface, and ultimately raise its mouth out of the water, as if gasping for breath—a sure sign that the water does not furnish it with what is re- quired for its comfort. No animal can exist without air, and fish, like creatures that live on land, need a supply of oxygen, which is the gaseous element in air that supports life. Besides this, animals give off by respiration a poisonous gas, called carbonic acid, which must by some means be disposed of, or it will im- pregnate the surrounding air or water, and ultimately destroy the creatures within reach of its influence. Now the reason that the gold-fish becomes uncomfortable is that it has by breathing exhausted the air in the water, and polluted it with its exhalations ; the oxygen has been 2 consumed, and the carbonic acid has been imported into the water, although to all appearances it remains clean and pure. It will thus be seen that what is required to render the aquarium self-supporting, and obviate an otherwise necessary change of water, is that something should be introduced that will supply air and at the same time absorb carbonic acid. To ascertain what will perform this office, we have only to look into a pond or river, or peep into the pools among the rocks at the sea- side, when we shall discover that Nature’s own method of purifying and aerating the water is by vegetable growth. In fact, it may be laid down as a principle, that in an ac^uarium the natural condition of its inmates should as nearly as possible be imitated in every particular. There should be the same animals, the same kind of vegetation, the same amount of light, and the same temperature as if the aquarium were a nook in the corner of a natural piece of water. The dimensions c f the aquarium mustcf course depend upon the space that can be afforded. The simplest and least expensive is the bell glass. Fig. I, such as confectioners use to cover cakes. This being inverted and placed upon a stand, forms a pretty orna- ment, and has the advantage of being adaptable to any situation. By the arrangement of a few ferns in pots, and a basket of creeping plants suspended from above, a win- dow may be made exceedingly orna- mental. Where space is not so much an object, an oblong tank may be se- lected. This may be made of any size. For fresh water the framework may be of wood, zinc, iron, or glass pillars, with glass sides, but the best are those made of slate with a glass front, or with slate ends and glass at the front and back. If not made of slate, the bottom should be lined either with glass or slate, which can be embedded in a thin layer of Portland cement. Wood frames are undoubtedly the least durable for the purpose, for they soon leak, and cannot be satisfactorily repaired. Tanks for fitting on the outside of window-sills, where much weight would be an objection, may be made with a sloping back, as in Fig. 2. This shape has also the ad- vantage of presenting a large surface of water to the action of the air, but it is most suited for marine aquari,-’, AQUARIUM FOR THE WINDOW.