CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 103 permission. The arrangement to the effect that periodi- cally a servant shall be permitted to go out and see her i friends, does away with the necessity for having them to ' call on her. At the same time, a mistress should be careful not to bind herself to spare her servant on a certain day in every month, as is sometimes demanded. “ Once in a month when convenient ” is a better under- I standing. Most servants, in addition to the monthly holiday, ask to be allowed to go to church of a Sunday once in the i day. This request is reasonable ; and if a servant really j goes to a place of worship, some inconvenience should be ; borne by her employers to secure her this liberty, but if she goes instead to see her friends, it should be a matter for consideration whetber she shall go out or not. At any rate, the absence ought not to extend very much beyond I the time occupied in the church service. I Dress in these days is a very disputed point between mistress and maid. Any attempt to restrict young women in the choice of their garments will be found fruitless. Certain fashions, however, which are likely to be destruc- tive to the employer’s property, or unfitted for the per- formance of a servant’s duties, a lady has a right to prohibit. I Caps and white aprons, for answering the door and ' waiting at table, are befitting to young women in service. Little crochet caps, at once so cheap and so becoming, are the best head-gear to stipulate for. Large hoUand aprons, to be worn whilst bed-making and dusting furni- ture, are necessary garments; als.o> cotton gowns for morning wear. I If ladies would be at a little pains to mention their wishes on this subject, young, women in service would supply themselves with suitable wardrobes. Whatever clothing a servant chooses to wear when out for a hpliday, is beyond a mistress^ rule. COOKERY.—yil., , , - SOUPS AND MEAT DISHES AT MODERATE COST. Pea Soup.—The quality of this will much depend upon the water with which it is made. The peas are often, found fault with when it is the water which is really to blanle. N evertheless, some peas are good boilers—others, not; but unfortunately there are no n\eans of knowing them beforehand. Split peas, when good boilers, are cooked sooner than whole ones ; but split peas will often behave as badly as the worst whole peas. The water to cook dry peas, either white of blue, should be soft—rzxtv. or river-water, without .a particle of salt. Soak them for a night in some of this, and then set them on the fire separately {i.e., not with the meat nor with the meat-broth: to make the soup), in a saucepan with the water cold. Let them come to a boil gradually, arid simmer slowly till they are quite tender. Then pour them into a cullender placed over a bowl, and. squeeze them through it with the. back of a wooden spoon, so as to retain the skins (if the peas are whole) in the cullender. The crushed peas which have passed through the cullender are what is called the pure'e of peas. Take any good meat-broth or stock you have, not too salt. When it boils, throw into It a good quantity of celery cut into short lengths, and a smaller quantity of chopped carrot and turnip. The flaTOur of the celery ought to prevail; when it is not to be had, a little celery seed crushed will be a good substitute. When the vegetables are tender, stir in your puree, and serve accompanied by toasted bread, cut into squares, to soak in it. Another flavour much approved with pea soup is that of sage. Dry the leaves before a gentle fire, rub them to powder between your hands, and serve m a saucer for each person to dust into his plate of soup as much as he chooses. Pea soup, a good thing in itself, may be made still better by taking one or two hocks of pork, slightly salted (or, if much salted, well steeped in tepid water to draw out the brine), and making the broth for the soup with them, and when the soup is made, by cutting up the pork into small pieces and adding it thereto. Your pea soup then becomes victuals and drink in one—substantial diet for a hard-workingman. Peas are a valuable article of food, and their use might be extended with great advantage. For instance, if you bake your bread at home, sometimes add one pound of pea- meal to every stone of flour, and it will make the bread all the more nutritious. Peas are a very supporting food both for grown people and for children. They should be eaten —we are told on medical authority—once or twice a week all the year round. Vegetable Soup.—Slice into a pail of cold water two or three lettuces, a leek or two, a few onions and potatoes, and one turnip. Any garden vegetables you have may be added to the above. Put a good lump of dripping into a saucepan with a close-fitting lid ; when it is melted, put in the vegetables, with no more water than hangs to them; shut down the lid, and let them stew gently, shaking them about to avoid burning. When they are half done, stir in enough broth or water to make the quantity of soup you want, add a fe\y leaves of celery and sorrel (if to, be had), and a teacupful of green peas, or, cook half a pint of dry peaS', and mash them through a cullender into you^- soup. Let it boil till the vegetables are done enough; season with pepper- and-salt ; stir , in a little bit of butter. Put slices of toasted bread into your tureen, and pour the soup over them. ■ Shut of' Beef- Soup.—A departed huiriorist has saidj “Of all the birds that fly in the aiii, commend me to the shin of beef.‘ ‘There’s marrow for-the master, meat for the mistress, gristle for . the servants, and bories for the dogs.”. By successive'stewings and-warmings-up, it be- comes better'arid better every day, until it is all of it con-* sumed.: It may be cooked- as follows :—Take three' or four : pounds of-shin of beef, cut the meat into two or three slices 1 down to the bone, which should remain undivided arid still I enclosed in the flesh. Plug up -each erid of the bone with' a-stiff paste made erf flour and water, to keep in the iriarrow. Set it on the-fire in a’boiler of 'cold waterywith six or eight 'peppercorns and three or four cloves. Skim as long as' I any .scum rises. If you season with salt, it must be very I slightly; otherwise, by continued boiling and warming- iup, the broth will be so reduced as to become too salt. jLet it -boil gently for four hours, then make it boil I fast,' and- throw in- a few peeled turnips, cartots,-' rind ; Onions, with a small bunch of thyme and parsley. ' When ,thc vegetables are tender, you may serve the soup with' bits of toasted bread floating in it. - When the soup has been-served, take up youir beef, reriiove the slices of ,meat from- the bone, separate them, if needed, with a ■ knife and fork, put them in the. middle of a hot- dishj-and ■ arrange the ■vegetables round them, cutting the carrots iand turnips, into shapely bits. For sauce, fry chopped .onions brown, stir in amongst them a dessert-spoonful of .flour, dilute with a little of the soup, add two dessert- spoonfuls of mushroom catchup (for the making of which we will give a recipe in due course), pepper and salt, stir all together, and pour it over your slices of shin, then serve. For the marrow : toast a large round of bread, lay it on a hot plate, spread the marrow roughly on it, season with pepper, salt, and a little mustard, cut it! into as many pieces as there are persons sitting at the table, and serve. Sausages and Cabbage.—Shred a fine-hearted cabbage or savoy into a pail of cold water, picking it over leaf by leaf to see that no impurities are left; rinse the shred cabbage well therein, then put it into a deep saucepan of boiling soft water, without salt. Let it boil, with the