186 DOMESTIC MEDICINE. DOMESTIC MEDICINE.—IV. ERUPTIVE FEVERS. We shall, under this head, treat only of the more cotn- mon forms of eruptive fevers, such as scarlet fever—or, as it is the fashion now to call it, scarlatina—measles, small-pox, and typhoid and typhus fevers. These diseases constitute the principal epidemics, and, with infantile diarrhoea, cause a large proportion of the deaths in any community, especially in large towns. At the moment at which we write, scarlet fever is very fatal. We shall treat of it first. Scarlet Fever, or Scarlatina, used for a long time to be confounded with measles; but it is a very distinct disease in its symptoms and in its importance. Sometimes it occurs in such mild forms as to be of no consequence ; at other times it is a very serious disease indeed, and comes nearer to a plague than any common disease we have. It is not only serious in itself, but apt to be followed, after the lapse of weeks, by dropsy, rheumatism, and other consequences that are in themselves dangerous. All we shall do, therefore, is to point out the general character of the disease, and the general and domestic treatment of the patient. We take it for granted that the doctor will be called in. If we insert a few more specific instructions, it will be for those who are beyond the reach of medical advice. Scarlet fever begins, like other eruptive fevers, with symptoms of ailment—shivering, sickness, lassitude, and headache. In addition to these symptoms, there is more or less of sore throat, and the back of the mouth and throat are generally reddish in colour. The soreness of the throat is a very characteristic feature of scarlet fever. On the second day of the disease the eruption appears in the form of a red rash ; it comes on nearly everywhere at about the same time, but is generally visible on the neck and chest before it shows itself on the face. Like the sore throat and the rash, the appearance of the tongue is very characteristic in scarlet fever ; it is covered with a white fur, through which appear little red papillae or points, giving the appearance described as the “straw- berry tongue.” There is generally a good deal of fever present, the temperature of the skin is high, and the higher it is, generally speaking, the more serious is the case. Supposing the case to be a mild one, all these symptoms are present in a moderate degree. The throat is not very sore, the swelling of the neck is not very great, the fever is moderate, and the amount of eruption moderate. It is common to say that when the eruption comes well out, the patient is in less danger, but this is not the case. The more intense and extensive the eruption, the more severe is the disease. The worst cases of scarlet fever are those in which the disease begins with great severity; as when it sets in with delirium or convulsions, when the throat is very sore, and there is great and quick swelling of the neck, making swallowing and breathing difficult, and when the tempera- ture is very high. According to the severity of the disease is likely to be the course of it. The very mild cases go on very well About the fifth day, the skin, which has been the seat of the rash, begins to peel off. This process is called desquamation, and it may extend over eight or ten weeks, during which the patient must be considered to need care, especially protection from cold. But, even in mild cases, recover}^ is apt to be interrupted by some unsatisfactory symptoms. Of these, the most common is swelling of the eyelids and face generally, and other parts of the body, accompanied with a remarkable paleness of the skin. This is the dropsy after scarlet fever, and it occurs, to say the least, as frequently after mild attacks as after severe ones. It may bo accompanied by sickness or headache, or, still worse, by convulsions. It does not generally happen till fifteen or twenty days after the eruption, and may be a month after it. Coinci- dently with this dropsy, the urine may become scanty, and darker in colour. Very bad cases of scarlet fever are apt,to terminate fatally, at a very early period. Breathing becomes loud and difficult, there is a heaviness and stupor about the mind, and a tendency to wander ; the temperature of the body is often very high, and the patient may die in two or three days, and before the appearance of much eruption. A child with scarlet fever should be kept in bed ; and, even in mild cases, if the weather is cold, he should be kept in bed for a considerable time after the eruption has disappeared, so as to avoid exposure to cold. Even when he gets up, he should be kept in a comfortable temperature, so as not to be chilled. The throat should be gargled with warm water. A little sponge mop, dipped in pleasantly warm water, may be frequently used for cleansing it, with great relief and advantage. A very good mixture for the first few days of the disease is the following :— Chlorate of potash... Spirits of nitre Simple syrup Water I drachm. II drachms. 4 drachms. 4 ounces Mix one table-spoonful every four hours in as much water. For children below four years, a dessert-spoonful. If dropsy sets in, the child should be kept warm in bed. Generally speaking, a little purging is good, and five or ten grains of the compound powder of jalap may be given every morning, or every other morning, unless there is diarrhoea, which should not be checked ; and if there is not much fever, the following mixture may be given :— Tincture of the perchloride of iron i drachm. Simple syrup ... ... 3 drachms. Distilled water ... 6 ounces. One table-spoonful every si.x hours. Children under four years, a dessert-spoonful, or two tea-spoonfuls. In very bad cases of scarlet fever, and in the unavoidable absence of medical advice, keep the throat clear with the mop,as advised above, and give the following mixture;— Sesquicarbonate of ammonia ... 36 grains. Simple syrup ... ... ... ... Jounce. Water , ... ... 6 ounces. One table-spoonful every three hours. Children under four, a dessert-spoonful. To Prevent the Sp?-ead of the Disease.—When scarlet fever occurs in a house, the child affected should be kept in a large room, and separated from the rest of the family. The nurse should not mix with the rest of the family before changing her clothing and undergoing careful ablutions. The patient’s chamber should be divested of everything to which the contagion is apt to stick. The linen, bed- clothes, &c., as used, ought to be well boiled, or exposed to a dry heat, 200° Fahrenheit. A solution of chloride of lime (one pound to eight gallons of water) ought to be kept in the room in plates or basins. Another measure which tends to prevent the spread of the disease is to oil the patient’s skin well and daily, while it is peeling off. A little of the solution of chloride of lime should be mixed with the various discharges from the patient’s body. Measles.—The next very common eruptive fever which we have to describe is measles. Few complaints are better known in the domestic sphere, because it affects nearly every one once in their lifetime, generally in their childhood, and, also, because it has well-marked and easily recognised symptoms. Supposing measles to be abroad, it may be suspected that a child is going to have them if it has a hard, croupy cough, fever, loss of appetite and thirst, and if these symptoms are accompanied by sneezing and red- looking eyes, and other signs of a cold. The patient, if old enough, may complain of weight and heaviness, and pain in the forehead. Sometimes vomiting occurs, but