361 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. ment, and the performer should seek support by holding some fixed object, at first with both hands and then alternately. When such assistance is no longer necessary, the hands should be occupied in holding the dress ; and at the conclusion of each movement the pupil rises on the toes, with the knees straight—strengthening both instep and ankle. The last of these ex- ercises are known as Baitemejits—having one leg raised while the other supports the body. This is beneficial to the ankles, instep, the carriage of the arms, and the bal- ance of the whole body. They are divided into three classes ;— 1. Grands Battements. —For these keep one leg firmly on the ground, the knee straight, the body erect and steady. Raise one leg as high as the other knee, with the toe pointed downwards ; bring it consecutively to the ground in the five positions, both forwards and backwards ; repeat with either foot. 2. Petits Battements are carried out in the same way, except that, though the heel of the foot in motion is raised as much as possible, the toe does not leave the ground, the exer- cise thus acting beneficially on the hip. 3. Petits Battements on the Instep require that the toe only of the foot not in motion should touch the ground,the heel being raised. We will conclude this paper by giving the proper modes of walking and marching. In walking, the head should be upright, and capable of independent motion in any direction ; the body erect, and square to the front; the bust out, the waist in, the shoul- ders back, the arms hanging loosely and naturally at the sides, the knees straight, the toes turned moderately out, the weight of the body thrown slightly forward, resting on one foot as the other is advanced—the great point being that the movement comes from the hip, and not from the knee. In marching there are three degrees of speed :— 1. Slow Step—viz., some seventy-five steps a minute. 2. Quick March—One hundred and eight steps a minute. 3. Double March—One hundred and fifty steps a minute. In marching, the weight of the body is principally on the instep, the sole being nearly parallel with the ground. Walking and marching to appropriate music should take an important position in all dancing lessons. All the exercises described require a musical accompaniment. HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART.—XIV. Mantelshelves.—A good mantel-shelf is improved by a velvet hanging, and a bad one is rendered endurable. For this purpose measure the shelf, and get a shelf-board, or plank of wood, two feet longer than your mantel-shelf, and half as wide again. It is cheapest to make two together if you wish to cover them with velvet, because one length of velvet splits down and covers two. Cloth makes an excellent cover, and keeps its colour longer than cotton velvet. Cot- ton velvet costs is. 6d. or 23. a yard ; Utrecht velvet about 7s. or 8s.; cloth 7s., but it is so wide that a quarter of a yard generally covers a shelf. Cotton velvet is only three- quarters of a yard wide, and must be bought the whole length. Strain it over the plank of wood, and fasten down with tacks ; then add a valence notched out all round to back the fringe you intend to use. Or a piece of double tammy may be used where Utrecht velvet or expensive cloth is adopted. Over this arrange the fringe, which costs from I id. a yard, with star- headed gilt nails at yd. a dozen. A handsome hanging may be edged with a fine worsted fringe of the same colour as the velvet, over which a tassel fidnge of yellow silk is laid. The mantel-hang- ing always matches the win- dow'-curtains, and the carpet and other appointments of the room should, if possible, corre- spond. A brass double-eyed crapk is nailed to the board first by one hole, and after- wards by another hole serves to fix it to the wall. Any ironmonger w’ill furnish this, and anybody can put up the board so furnished. Fig. i represents a plain mantel- board ; Fig. 2 a curved one with an ornamental fringe. Penders.—We have seen some fenders constructed of velvet that were very elegant indeed. They were made by the master of the house, and had, be- sides giving a superior air Fig- 4- to the room, the merit of costing little, giving no labour to keep clean, and not spoiling. The grates of the drawing-room were very handsome. The hearth- stone was as dazzling as whitening or pipe-clay, instead of hearthstone, could make it. The fender left the whole of this beautifully white stone clear: the inner edge of the fender just bordered over the hearthstone. This was