COOKERY. 6S place them in your pie-dish, seasoning, as you do so, with pepper, salt, and allspice. You may sprinkle amongst them a little chopped parsley and lemon, or common thyme. Pour over them a tumbler of water, with a table- spoonful of vinegar in it, to help to make gravy. Two or three hard eggs quartered will be a nice addition. Cover all with a good solid crust, and bake in a moderate oven. This dish may be eaten either hot or cold ; if cold, the pie may be a little more highly flavoured with spice and vinegar. Large Co7iger, Roasted, is very good and easy to do. Take a cut, about a foot long, out of the middle of one of the largest. Clean it without opening the belly. If you can manage to stuff it with a stuffing made of bread crumbs, chopped parsley and lemon thyme, pepper, salt, and shred fat or suet, bound together with a raw egg, your roast will be all the better, as well as all the bigger, for it. Tie it round with string, and after a good dredging with flour, roast it. Put into your catch-pan a lump of butter or some roast-meat dripping, and, if you live in a cyder country, a tumbler of cyder; if not, the same quantity of one-third vinegar, two-thirds water. Baste well your roasting conger with this, dredging it with flour from time to time. When half-done, change the end by which it hangs before the fire, and continue basting till it is done enough. Serve the gravy with it. Large conger, so prepared, can be baked in a dish, if the shape and size of the oven allow of its being basted now and then with the liquor (the same as you put into the catch-pan) in the dish, into which you may also put a few potatoes. Baking the fish is less trouble than roasting it, but if cooked in this way it is more liable to over-doing and drying up. Skate is a wholesome fish, often to be had at a reason- able price, as it bears travelling well, and is indeed, in cool weather, the better for being kept a couple of days after catching. It is best in autumn, but is never exactly out of season. Choose fish with the brown skin clear and healthy-looking, the flesh and under skin very white. Young skate, called “maids,” are tender fleshed and deli- cate ; larger fish are firmer, and altogether more profitable, having thicker flesh in proportion to the quantity of gristle, for they have no real bones. The upper skin should be removed. If you have to do it yourself, strip it from the middle outwards. Save the liver. Cut your fish into pieces about four inches square—some out of the thick parts, some out of the thin. After washing, throw the thick pieces and the liver into boiling salt and water; when they have boiled up a couple of minutes, put in the thin. They will take from ten minutes to a quarter of an hour in cooking. When they are done, arrange them on your dish, and make for them some liver sauce, for which we subjoin a recipe. Liver Sauce. — Chop some of the liver into pieces smaller than peas. Put some of the water in which the fish has been boiled into a saucepan ; thicken it with a little flour and butter or dripping ; add some vinegar, with a very small quantity of mustard mixed in it. Then put in your chopped liver ; let it come to a boil, and it is ready. Plam Boiled Mackerel, with Fennel Sauce. — If the fish have roes and milts, by making an opening near the vent, you will be able to draw the entrails at the opening made by the removal of the gills, at the same time leaving the roe or milt in its place, and also to wash the inside of the fish through those two apertures. The mackerel will thus have a much plumper appearance than if the roes were taken out and laid beside them. When the fish- kettle boils, throw in a few sprigs of the freshest light green fennel you can get. Add a little salt, and when the water boils again, throw in your mackerel. Skim carefully. They will take from twenty minutes to half an hour, according to the size. When done, lay your mackerel on the strainer in your dish, previously warmed. Have ready some melted butter, not too thick. Take the boiled fennel out of the fish-kettle, chop it fine, and add enough of it to the melted butter to give it a light green tint. Add a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, either common or flavoured with tarragon. You may also stir in a very little made mustard, but so little as scarcely to be per- ceptible. When well mixed over the fire, serve separately in a sauce-boat. Cods’ Heads.—In some places, fishmongers take the heads off their codfish before they cut up the rest of the fish to retail it by the pound. In that case, the heads are sold cheap; and when they can be had for somewhere about twopence each, they are well worth buying. They are in season through the whole of autumn and winter; and we have enjoyed many a cheap fish-treat with a dish of cods’ heads, which contain several of the tit-bits prized by epicures—namely, the tongue, the cheek-pieces, and the nape of the neck. The fishermen in the northern regions, who take cod in large numbers for salting (to do which they are obliged to cut off the heads), might be expected to throw them away, and waste them, in the midst of such abundance. But instead of that they turn them to the best possible account. The tongues and the neck- pieces, as well as the sounds, or swimming bladders of the fish, are cut out and salted. Even the fins are dried, to furnish glue. The only inconvenience attending cods’ heads is, that if there are several, they require a large kettle to boil them in ; but they can be cooked one or two at a time, reserving the flesh from the second batch for next day’s use. After taking out the eyes, wash the heads, drain them, and if you can let them lie all night with a little salt sprinkled over them, they will be none the worse for it. Put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes, according to size. Dish them on a strainer, if you can, and help with a spoon. For sauce, oiled butter is good—i.e., simply set a lump of butter in a cup before the fire until it melts, and with a spoon pour a little of it over the fish on your plate. In some English counties, nice mealy potatoes are considered a necessary “ sauce” for codfish. For sharp sauce, take a few table-spoonfuls of the cods’ head boilings; put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter or dripping, and a table-spoonful of vinegar ; dust in a little flour, and keep stirring in one direction till they are all mixed smooth and come to a boil. Both these sauces go well with any boiled fish, and are very nice served with many sorts of vegetables. To, these we will add a third, which will be found equally simple and good. For brown sauce, put a good lump of butter or dripping. into a saucepan. Set it on a brisk fire, shake it round now and then, and keep it there till it is browned, not burnt. Take it off the fire, and stir into it a good table- spoonful of vinegar. When they are well mixed, pour into your sauce-boat, and serve. The mixing of the vinegar with the hot fat had better be done out of doors, on account of the quantity of vapour that rises when they are put together. Although the reverse of an unhealthy smell, it may not be agreeable to the persons in the house. Any meat remaining on cods’ heads after a meal should be separated from the skin and bone before it gets cold. This rule applies to all other fish. Arrange it neatly on a plate, and dust a little pepper, and drop a little vinegar over it. It will furnish a nice little delicacy when cold, or you may warm it up with potatoes, adding any sauce that may be left, in the way we have already directed for roach and bream ; or, after putting on it the cold sauce left, or a bit of bufter, you may sprinkle over it bread crumbs or mashed potatoes, and brown before the fire or in the oven.