,THE HORSE. 20 where it enters the fauces, or what horsemen call the “ vines;" ears small and pricked ; shoulders oblique, but not fine ; legs peculiarly flat, and the bone as hard and heavy as can be conceived; “arms” large and muscular, as are the thighs; the quarters are most beautifully rounded ; and though the “ barrel” is not large, the horse is deep in the girth, which gives him endurance, wind, and a capacity for carrying weight. His absolute pace with our own thorough-bred race-horse has not been fairly tried, as we j have not had a first-class Arab in condition on any of our courses. Their performances in their own country, and according to the statements of their own people, are past all credibility. Their endurance of thirst and hunger is beyond anything we dream of, and we have well-authenti- cated accounts of their travelling from sixty to a hundred miles over the desert without food or water, and almost without a halt. The height of the Arab does not exceed ing on the deck. The horses bred at the Cape, or at Pietermaritzburg in Natal, might be very serviceable as soldiers’ remounts, and would reach India at a moderate expense. We give below a portrait of “Varna,” the Arab alluded to as having been in the possession of the writer. The reader will notice one peculiarity; the unusual way in which the animal carried his tail—so much out WESTERN BREEDS. Of Western breeds—meaning Egypt and westward— the principal is the Barb. His peculiarities are the ful- ness of his crest, the fineness of his shoulders, and the sudden fall of his quarters or haunches. He is larger than the Arab in some respects, but in height is about the same. The country of the Barb is Morocco. His is one of the breeds which is credited with the ancestry of the “ VARNA,” A HIGH-BRED ARAB. fifteen hands, and he is usually about fourteen hands two inches. He has the finest temper in the world, till ill- treated, but when roused ><e is indomitable. The Persian Horse is larger in every respect, and not so handsome as the Arab ; and the description given by Sir John Malcolm is much the same as that of Xeno- phon. They are, when roused, and loose among them- selves, furious and vicious beyond measure. The Turkoman is of the Tartar breed, but of a very superior class. Instead of small, awkward, heavy-shoul- dered, wild horses, which are hunted for the flesh, on which the Tartars live, the horses used by the Turks are from fifteen to sixteen hands high, held in high esti- mation, of considerable value, and exhibiting much of the fire and form of the Arab, for which he is sometimes mistaken. He is, however, most likely a cross between the last-named and the Barb. India has some native breeds, but none of any import- ance. The climate is said to be unsuitable, save in the north of Bahar and Orissa ; and the importation of Euro- pean blood was found to be absolutely necessary. Good Arabs are very expensive ; and frequently suffer from the sea voyage, disembarking with foot lameness from stamp- English thorough-bred horse—the Godolphin Arabian, of which our readers have probably heard or read, being, in all probability, a Barb, sent direct from Barbary to Louis XIV. The ups and downs of life are pictured in his histor)", for he was bought from a water-cart in Paris by an English gentleman, and found his way into the hands of Lord Godolphin. He died in 1752. He was brown in colour, and rather better than fifteen hands high ; and so truly remarkable are the peculiarities of his head and neck, that we add a sketch from an au- thentic likeness. Egyptian Horses.—Egypt as a breeding country is far inferior to those we have ah'eady mentioned, and cer- tainly to its own reputation in the days of Pharaoh and Solomon. The docility of' these horses is the theme of praise with writers at the beginning of the sixteenth century, and interesting facts are recorded of the exercises, ridden by the Mamelukes of the Sultan of Egypt, which remind us of the ancient Persians, as described by classical writers. They possess, how- ever, very little interest for us, as they are entirely unconnected with those breeds which have so greatly assisted in improving our own.