HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART. C,2 HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART.—III. DIAPHANIE. Diaphanie is the art of imitating the most beautiful and costly stained glass by the inexpensive and exceedingly simple process of transferring Fig. a species of chromo-litho- graph in transparent colours to the surface of an ordinary pane of glass, and may be used not only as an embel- lishment, but as a method of shutting out, and hiding an unsightly view, such as black walls, chimneys, &c., so fre- quently eye-sores in a town residence. The art was first practised in France ; the original method consisting in printing the sub- ject in colours upon tissue- paper, which paper was per- manently fixed upon the glass, by which means the light was intercepted, and the brilliancy and transparency of the co- louring destroyed. This sys- tem has been im- proved upon, and by the method now practised, the colours them- selves are trans- ferred to the sur- face of the glass, while the paper is removed, leav- ing a most per- fect imitation of stained glass, upon which neither the vio- lence of the sum- mer sun nor win- ter frost has any effect. Nor is the art applicable only to windows; it may be used to ornament fire- screens, lamp- shades, Chinese lanterns, and fancy panes in conservatories, and is in fact available for every purpose in which the combina- tion of transparency and orna- ment enter. The designs used for diaphanie are produced by a new process of lithography, and are mostly copies from well- known and valuable subjects ; these you purchase in sheets, and arrange at pleasure, taking care, however, not to mix up designs belonging to different periods. Numbers of beautiful designs are sold at all the paint and oil warehouses, where there is always to be found an extensive choice of subjects, sacred, mcdimval, and picturesque, according to the device and subject required. The simplest plan of pro- ceeding is to have a pane of glass to work upon the exact Fig. 2. size of that in your window ; this, with the design, a few sheets of lead-foil, a bottle of each transferring varnish, clearing liquid, washable varnish, a roller, and a flat brush, is all that is required.* In the first place, the artist must be very sure that the pane of glass is free from imperfections, such as specks and bubbles, and scrupu- lously cleansed; of course, if it be already fixed in window frames, you must take it as you find it. Being assured the glass is all right, lay it flat upon a folded cloth ; then trace the outline with a pencil line; those portions where the border ground-work and sub- ject join to serve as a guide for the laying on the lead-foil and the designs which should have previously been cut out. The lead-foil should be cut into’strips the width of one-eighth of an inch, though they may be a little wider or narrower, accord- ing to the size of the window you desire to decorate, or to the taste of the operator. The lead-foil is to give the effect of the white glass which forms the borders of most coloured glass windows, and when put on the glass it looks quite trans- parent. In making the pattern, the de- signs may be cut out and arranged to show the ef- fect of the com- position. Next lay the glass upon the pat- to the method and cement Fig. 3- tern' according shown in Fig. L upon it the tin-foil previously cut in strips to the proper width; gum is found to be the best cement for laying on the tin- foil. For circles and other shapes the straight strips of foil are cemented, and when nearly dry, stretched with the fingers of one hand, and pressed down with the thumb of the other. No attention need be shown to the creases which may come in the foil, as the smooth handle^ of a knife or paper cutter, slightly wetted and rubbFd over them, flattens and • Rollers of the best description, 2S. 6a. . transferring varnish (per bottle), IS. and IS. 6d. ; clearing liquid (per bottle), is. 6d.; washable varnish (per bottle), IS.; brush, 2d.