169 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. keep much longer without. We now pass on to the other I' inmates of the poultry-yard. ' DUCKS AND GEESE. I Ducks will do well in a garden or any other tolerably wide range where they can procure plenty of slugs and worms, with a pond or cistern only a few feet across. Kept in this manner, they will not only be found profit- able, but very serviceable ; keeping the place almost free of those slugs which are the gardener’s great plague, and doing but little damage, except to strawberries, for which they have a peculiar partiality, and which must be care- fully protected from their ravages. Other fruit is too high j! to be in much danger from them. In such circumstances there can be no doubt whatever that ducks are profitable poultry; and where many fowls are kept, a few ducks should be added, as they will keep themselves, very nearly, ■ on what the hens refuse ; but where every atom of the food they consume has to be paid for in cash, our own opinion is that ducks do not pay to rear except for town markets their appetites are so everlasting and voracious. ' This point, however, we must leave to the experience of the reader. The Aylesbury duck is of the purest snow white all over. The head should be full, and the bill well set on to the skull, so that the beak should seem to be almost in a line from the top of the head to the tip. [ The bill should be long, and when viewed in front appear I much like a woodcock’s. Eye, full, bright, and quite Hack. The legs should be strong, with the claws well webbed, and in colour of a rich dark yellow or orange. Immense numbers of these ducks are bred around i Aylesbury. It is not at all unusual to see around one small cottage 2,000 ducklings, and it has been computed that upwards of ^20,000 per annum is returned to the town and neighbourhood in exchange, whilst the railway tl; not uncommonly carries a ton weight of the birds up to i]| the London market in a single night. The Aylesbury !| duck often begins to lay before Christmas. Rouen i|' ducks are not nearly so forward, rarely laying till February i or March, but they make better layers. They are very i handsome, and will weigh eight or nine pounds each ; and, i as a rule, do much better in most parts of England than the f Aylesburys. Their flesh is excellent. The best general i description of the Rouens are those which in plumage are fi precisely like the wild mallard, but larger. The drake should have a commanding appearance, with a rich green ti and purple head, and a fine long bill of a yellow ground, k with a very pale wash of green over it, and the “ bean ” i at the end of it jet black. His neck should have a sharp, i clearly-marked white ring round it, not quite meeting at { the back. Breast, a deep rich claret brown to well i below the water-line, then passing into the under body- i colour, which is a beautiful French grey, shading into I, white near the tail. The back ought to be a rich f; greenish black quite up to the tail-feathers, the curls in 11 which are a rich dark green. Wings, a greyish brown, li with distinct purple and white ribbon-mark well de- i( veloped. The flight-feathers must be grey and brown; 3 any approach to white in them is a fatal disqualification, > not to be compensated by any other beauty or merit, 11 Legs, a rich orange. Nothing can exceed the beauty of a r drake possessing the above colours in perfection. The 11 bill of the duck should not be so long as in the drake, 3 j and orange brown as a ground colour, shading off at the {i edges to yellow, and on the top a distinct splash or mark i of a dark colour approaching black, two-thirds down 1 from the top ; it should there be rounded off, and on no account reach the sides. The head of the duck is dark brown, with two distinct light brown lines running along each side of the face, and shading away to the upper part of the neck. Breast, a pale brown, delicately pen- cilled with dark blown ; the back is exquisitely pencilled : ! with black upon a moderately dark brown ground. The shoulder of the wing is also beautifully pencilled with black and grey ; flight-feathers, dark grey, and ribbon- mark as in the drake. Belly, up to the tail, light brown, with every feather delicately pencilled to the tip. Legs, orange, often, however, with a brown tinge. The Mus- covy, or Musk duck, appears to be a totally distinct breed, the cross between it and other ducks being, at least usually, unfertile. The drake is very large, often weighing ten pounds, and looking far more on account of the loose feathering; but the female is less than the Aylesbury, not exceeding about six pounds. The plumage of this species varies greatly from all white to a deep blue-black, but usually contains both. The face is naked, and the base of the bill is greatly carunculated. The drake is very quarrelsome, and we well remember the injuries inflicted by an old tyrant of this breed belonging to a relative, upon a fine Dorking cock in the same yard. The flesh of the Musk duck is very good eating ; but it is far inferior as a layer to either the Rouen or the Aylesbury, and cannot be considered a very useful variety. Call ducks are principally kept as ornamental fowl. The flesh is good; but there is too little to repay breeding them for the table, and their only proper place is on the lake. The East Indian, or Buenos Ayres black duck, is a most beautiful bird. The plumage is black, with a rich green lustre, and any white, grey, or brown feathers are fatal. They are bred as small as possible, never exceeding four and five pounds. As they usually pair, equal numbers should be kept of both sexes. The flesh of this duck is more delicious than that of any other variety, in our estimation. The Cayuga, or large black duck of America, is a breed well worth naturalising in this country, being hardy and a good layer. The plumage is black, approach- ing brown, with a white collar or neck. Weight, from six to eight pounds each, being thus inferior to the Ayles- bury and Rouen, but with better flavour, and greater aptitude to fatten. The common duck needs no de- scription. We believe it to be the Rouen more or less degenerated, or rather, perhaps, not bred up to the per- fection of that breed. It should be remembered in keep- ing ducks that the wild birds are monogamous, and not more than two or three should be given to one drake, if eggs are wanted for sitting. The duck usually sits well, and always covers her eggs with loose straw when leaving them, a supply of which should therefore be left near her. The usual number laid is fifty or sixty in one year ; but ducks have laid as many as two hundred and fifty ; and we believe with care this faculty might be greatly de- veloped, and their value much increased as producers of eggs. At present they are mostly kept for table. Ducks should have a separate house, with a brick or stone floor, as it requires to be frequently washed down. Clean straw should be given them at least every alternate night. Other attention they need none, beyond the precaution of keeping them in until they have laid every morning. This is necessary, as the duck is very careless about laying, and if left at liberty will often drop her eggs in the water whilst swimming. When intended for fattening, ducks should only have a trough of water instead of their usual pond, and should then be fed on barley- meal. Celery will add a delicious flavour. In ordinary rearing the ducklings should be left with the hen, or mother-duck, and kept from the water entirely for a week or ten days ; then only allowed to swim for half an hour at a time, till the feathers begin to grow, else they will be liable to die of cramp. They will soon be totally inde- pendent of their mother, and may then be left entirely to themselves; only taking precautions against rats, to which ducklings fall victims far oftener than any other poultry. Geese.—Of the two principal breeds of geese, the grey or Toulouse is larger and handsomer than the Embden or white ; they are also better shaped, as a rule, and every