22 I CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. i.3 a great improvement. Black currant jam eats well in a rolled pudding; it is also useful to mix with water, as a cooling drink for invalids. Red and white currants are not often made into jam, but are rather reserved for jelly- making. Some people, however, have a preference for red currant jam, as there is a pleasant acid in the flavour of it; others, again, mix equal quantities of red currants and raspberries. Apricot Jam.—The apricots should be ripe enough to halve with your fingers. Crack the stones and blanch the kernels in boiling water. Allow equal weights of sugar and fruit. In the stew-pan add the blanched kernels to the fruit, and proceed as before. Greengage and Plum yn'w.—Wipe the fruit, weigh it, set it on the fire in a stew-pan covered with a lid, taking the usual precautions to avoid burning. When soft enough, crush the fruit with a spoon, and remove the kernels. Then add the sugar ; three-quarters of a pound to each pound of fruit will do, but a pound is better. Let it boil slowly for forty minutes. If sufficient moisture is not driven off, all plum jams are apt to ferment. You may blanch the kernels of the plums, and incorporate them with some of the jam, on whose paper covers it will be found advisable to note the addition. Quince Marmalade.—The strong odour emitted by quinces is a sign of their being fit for use. Peel, quarter, and core them, but save the pips. Put the quinces and their pips into a stew-pan, with a little less lump sugar than is directed for the preceding preserves, and just enough water to keep them from burning. As the sugar dissolves and the liquor boils, continue stirring the whole mass. When the fruit becomes tender break and mash it with a spoon. In about an hour it will be done enough. It may then be turned out into preserve-jars. The next morning it ought to be perfectly stiff, from the strong mucilage of the pips being thoroughly incorporated with it. Tied down in the usual way, it will keep good for a long time. Damson or Bullace Cheese.—Let the fruit be quite ripe and sound, and any that is at all damaged must be care- fully picked out. For every pound of fruit set aside a quarter of a pound of sugar. Put the fruit, without water, into a deep stone jar. Set the jar, nearly up to the neck, in a vessel of boiling water, after tying double paper over the top to keep out the steam. Or you may set it in a very slow oven. When the fruit is tender pour it into a bowl; remove the stones with a fork, but leave the skins. Then pour all into a stew-pan. Add the sugar, and boil, with care not to burn, until the whole is reduced to a thick pulp. The time required depends on circumstances. 'A dessert-spoonful set out of doors to cool, will tell you if your cheese is stiff enough ; if not, it must be boiled a little longer. When done put it into small shapes or moulds, in which it may be kept until wanted to be turned out, to appear at luncheon or dessert. Currant Jelly.—Jellies from currants (red, black, or white) are all prepared in the same way. Strip the currants from the stalks, and for every pound of fruit set aside three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Some cooks allow as much as a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit or a pint of juice. Or, after the juice is extracted, you may allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to every pint of juice. Put the stripped currants into a- stew-pan, and let them boil for twenty minutes. The juice from red and black currants can then be squeezed through a cloth; that from white currants had better only drain, with very gentle pressure, to keep it clear. Return the juice to the stew- pan, add the sugar, boil up and skim. After cooling a little, your jelly will be ready to pour off into jars or glasses. The sugar is added to the juice, because it is clear that by boiling it with the frjiit you lose all which remains adhering to the skins and pips of the currants when the juice is strained away. SERVANTS OF THE HOUSE.—IV. THE HOUSEMAID. In many English households two servants only are kept —cook and housemaid—a small domestic staff, but one capable, under able supervision, of getting through a con- siderable amount of work. In order to effect this, it is necessary that each servant should be efficient in her duties, and that a regular plan of household labour be laid down, by which, instead of impeding each other’s progress, mutual help may be rendered to facilitate a thorough dispatch of work. As a general rule, however, the less a cook has to do out of her kitchen the better will she be enabled to cook, and the more time a house- maid bestows on house cleaning, the greater will be the comfort of the family. Dusty furniture and a close atmosphere are evils which are apt to generate ailments in establishments where sufficient domestic labour can- not be afforded. Ailments of the kind should have no existence where sufficient servants are employed to keep every part of a house clean and wholesome. One of the chief obstacles to the better discharge of housemaids’ work than generally obtains is, not only the notion on the part of the servant herself, that her duties are of a semi-laborious nature, but the too ready acquiescence in this view by employers. Many ladies, when engaging a housemaid, hold out the “ lightness of the work" as an inducement to get the place filled. Consequently, no sphere of domestic service is so crowded with young women in delicate health as that of the housemaid. Good health is, nevertheless, indispensable to the fit discharge of all kinds of labour. A housemaid’s place is no sinecure if properly filled. Early rising is indispensable; much physical strength is required for scrubbing, carrying trays, and answering bells, and if, as it often happens, there are children and invalids in the family, her powers of patience are con- siderably tried. A good constitution and a willing disposition are amongst the principal qualities to seek in a housemaid, to which may be added a quiet, pleasing manner and cleanly appearance. A housemaid’s dress is of some importance. When engaged in her morning work, washable materials are the best; a wide holland apron should always be worn over one of white material whenever house-cleaning is going on. If the servant be required to appear at the front door, or wait upon the family whilst at dirty work, by casting aside the outer apron she is able to appear at a moment’s notice in a presentable manner. For afternoon wear in the winter, very dark or black French twill dresses are suitable, inexpensive, and easily washed. In the summer light cotton materials look best. At all seasons a neat white crochet cap is the best head-gear. Thick boots, especially with nails, are destructive to stair carpets, and should on no account be worn in the house. House- maid’s gloves should be found by the mistress of the house. As the duties of a housemaid are very numerous, and liable to vary in different households, it is advisable in this place to explain only those which are of general application. A good housemaid will rise at six, and have her grates cleaned and rooms swept by seven. She will then go up- stairs, wash her hands, and make herself tidy for taking to the bedroom hot water if required to do so. In the meanwhile the dust will have settled, and the rooms will be ready on her return to be finished by eight. By nine o’clock breakfast ought to be cleared away and the housemaid ready to strip the beds, empty slops, and set the bedrooms in order. By eleven o’clock the up-stairs work ought to be done, unless extra cleaning is in question. Washing up china and glass, dusting the drawing-room.