COOKERY. 4 COOKERY.—I. PLAIN COOKERY.—INTRODUCTION. Everybody knows that a good cook is an economical cook, so that a knowledge of the elementary rules regarding the preparation of food must prove an economy to all, and not only an economy of money, but of life and strength, by enabling people to get better food, and thus obtain more actual nourishment out of the materials they can afford to provide. The great secret in cooking is to make food palatable, and not to waste the nutriment contained in the meat, neither to let it boil out or steam out. If you boil your dinner, always keep the liquor in which it is boiled ; there must be the very essence of the meat in it, and it is there- fore always good for vegetable soup. Always cover your pot, and let the steam, which contains the strength, fall back into the stew. Never waste anything. Remember the old adage, “ Waste not, want not.” Save every bone, every leaf, every crust, and make them into soup, if not for your own children, for the children of those poorer than yourself. It should always be remembered that “ wholesome fare” is well-prepared fare, and fare necessary to keep up the system, especially where there is an extra amount of wear and tear by any exhausting labour. In rural dis- tricts, where work is done in the open air, and without any excitement to the nervous system, nature does not seem to make such large demands for replenishment, and turns out fine muscular men upon no stronger feeding tlian potatoes and oatmeal. This, however, does not hold good in all cases. With many animal food is a necessity, and reasoning from this necessity, it is not too much to argue that every young woman ought to study the rudiments of cookery—so as to learn that a clear quick fire is required to cook a chop or a steak, which may be rendered tender by beating, either with the point of a knife or a rolling-pin ; that a stew ought never to boil; that meat boiled is meat spoiled, unless simmered ; that vege- tables must be put in boiling water, and without a cover ; that bread goes twice as far, and is three times as whole- some stale as fresh ; and that brown flour is much more nutritious and cheaper than white. Many people, especially such as live in large towns, abandon altogether the attempt to cook their dinners for themselves, and after preparing it in the rudest possible form, send it to the baker’s oven to be cooked, a proceeding utterly wasteful and bad, the reason show- ing upon the very face of it; for how is it possible that dishes of all sizes and sorts can be equally well cooked in the same heat ? Besides, think of the different gases all condensing, and flowing mingled back upon the meat. Fish, flesh, fowl, pastry, and vegetables, all share alike. Then, again, there is the mixture of gravy, for basting must go on quite “promiscuously.” You cannot expect the baker’s man to dip his ladle into the very dish he wants to baste. Will he not, as a matter of course, dip where the dish is deepest and handiest ? In many families of moderate means, after the Sunday dinner is eaten, the meat that is left comes in cold day after day through the week until it is consumed. Such a disagreeable sameness might easily be avoided, and a wholesome and pleasant variety be obtained, by a slight Fig. 2. but sound knowledge of cooking. Of course, some people have greater facilities than others. Where there is a small garden a good dinner may be eaten every day ; but even without this, it is possible, by a little judicious economy, to obtain a regular supply of vegetables. As almost all who possess a garden may keep a pig and a few hens, they may vary their bill of fare, either by using or selling the home produce. For growing children a full supply of food is a necessary to health and development. Where oatmeal is cheap, nothing can be better than well - boiled porridge; but where any prejudice exists against this, let the breakfast and supper consist of coarse brown bread, and, if you can get it, skim or butter milk; if not, treacle and toast- and-water. Children will generally thrive well upon bread alone, but nature requires something else, and the more you can vary the diet, even by the use of common vegetables boiled down, the better. Onions are easily grown, are cheap to buy, and contain a large mnount of nutriment; so, too, do carrots ; both are wholesome and palatable, and make a loaf of bread go much further. Always teach children to masticate their food, and eat slowly ; half the quantity so eaten will suffice. Bolting food is not only