COOKERY. 340 mineral substance called phosphate of lime is an essential ingredient of food, because the bones of animals consist chiefly of it. All the most important articles of food contain it. Our fourth head is of necessity very vague. Under it we include alcohol, tea, coffee, spices, essences, and many other things which are useless, or nearly so, for the actual nourishment of the body, but which in many cases have a high special value of their own. The first two heads require a somewhat closer examination. Flesh-formers.—-The solid part of the flesh of all animals consists chiefly of a substance called fibrin. Fibrin stands naturally at the head of the list of flesh- formers, for nothing could be more suitable for the repair of the flesh than flesh itself. Albumin, which is found in the juice of flesh, in the white of egg, and in the blood, is another flesh-former, very similar to fibrin in composition and properties. It is equal to fibrin as a flesh-former, and as it is soluble in water in its natural condition, it is more easy of digestion. It has, however, the curious power of becoming insoluble when boiled. White of egg consists almost entirely of albumin, and every one knows how entirely it is altered by a few minutes’ exposure to the heat of boiling water. Milk contains a third important flesh-former called Casein. It forms the curd of milk and constitutes the greater portion of cheese. These three substances, almost identical in composition with one another, and with the flesh, are the most important animal flesh-formers. But it has been found that compounds very similar both in composition and properties occur in those vegetables which are used as food. If a little flour be tied up in a small linen bag and squeezed under water with the fingers for some minutes, a fine white powder, called starch, is squeezed out and a sticky mass is left behind, well known as bird-lime. This is called glutin. It is a very important and valuable flesh- former. Lastly, peas, beans, and some other vegetable substances contain a compound called legu7}im, which is similar to, some say identical with, casein in composition and properties, and we have therefore in the most import- ant articles of food five distinct, though very similar, flesh-formers. Heat-producers.—The substances which are exclusively destined for the maintenance of the animal heat, and thereby to the production of work, are more numerous than the flesh-formers, with the exception of gelatin, of which we shall speak presently, and their chemical com- position is much better understood. Leaving gelatin out of the question for the present, they may be roughly divided into the three following classes :— 1. Fats and oils. 2. Starches and gums. 3. Sugars. Fats and oils form a very well-marked and important class. They are found both in animal and vegetable foods, and differ but slightly in composition in all cases. The most important examples among animal food are the fat of butchers’ meat, the suet, lard, and dripping which are obtained from it, and butter, which in the form of cream is one of the most valuable ingredients of milk. Most of the staple articles of vegetable food contain a greater or less proportion of fat or oil, and they are, in particular, found in all seeds. Starches and sugars are mainly derived from the vegetable kingdom, though examples of both occur in the animal body. They all have about the same composition, and although they contribute largely to the heat of the body, they are not as valuable, considered merely as fuel, as the fats and oils, which, we shall hereafter find, give out more heat in their burning than an equal weight of any other article of food. Another common constituent of food is known as gelatin. It occupies a somewhat ambiguous position in our classification. It can only be obtained from certain animal substances, and does not exist ready-formed even in them. When the tendons, skin, and similar parts of animals are boiled for a length of time in water, they gradually become soluble and then constitute gelatin. Bones behave in a similar manner, but the mineral matter remains behind unchanged. Glue and size are prepared in this way from the hides of animals. They consist of somewhat impure gelatin. Isinglass is nearly pure gelatin, and it is found in a less pure state in calves’ feet jelly, and in the substance which is sold under the name of gelatin in the shops. Gelatin is so like the flesh-formers in composition that we should naturally be inclined to class it among them ; and it is almost always considered by persons ignorant of science as a nutritious and valuable food. But it appears to be nearly certain that it has no value whatever as a flesh- fomner, and it must, therefore, be classed amongst the heat-givers. This fact is of greater practical importance than we should at first sight imagine. How often do people judge of the quality of soup or broth by the stiff- ness of the jelly which it forms on cooling. The test is utterly fallacious, because the stiffness is entirely due to gelatin. It is very easy to make the poorest soup set to a firm jelly by merely adding to it a little isinglass. One pound of gelatin will convert ten gallons of water into jelly, but this jelly has very little value as food, and is utterly useless for the production of flesh. COOKERY.—XXI. RIVER FISH (continued from p. ■^2.^. The Carp, an illustration of which we give on the next page, is a fish retaining its place in general cookery mainly on the strength of its former reputation. In many parts of the Continent it is still held in more esteem than, in our own opinion, its culinary merits entitle it to. It is, in fact, a fish to keep in ponds, as we keep pretty birds in cages—to look at and not to eat. It becomes very tame ; is gifted with considerable cunning ; will rarely take a bait; when enclosed in a net, will, if at the bottom, stick its nose into the mud and let the net slip over it; or, if at the surface of the water, will “ take back,” like a horse wanting to clear a hedge, and then, with a rush, leap over it. There is no knowing how long a carp will live ; we have ourselves seen carp which must have been, undoubtedly and with no mistake, not less than eighty or ninety years of age, and yet quite juvenile in appearance. The length of days once accorded to the patriarchs may very possibly be still enjoyed by certain fish, when they once have grown big enough to escape being swallowed by their hungry admirers and friends. During the last century foolishly high prices were often paid for unusually fine specimens of carp. The real value of the fish (independent of its handsome appearance) lay (in those ante-railway days) in its astonishing tenacity of life, and consequent power of supporting long journeys without injury to its health. Carp were sent to market, or to wealthy customers, on approval, and if not purchased were sometimes returned to their pond. Carp, like most other permanent freshwater residents, are in season all the year round, except during the interval between their spawning (the first hot days in May) and the flowering of wheat (say the beginning of July). No con- noisseur would ever dream of buying a dead carp. Scale it, remove the gills, but leave the head ; save the blood (to be cooked in the sauce) and the milt or roe. Small or undersized fish do best in a Matelote (as on next page) ; fried, or otherwise, they are, we think, very poor eating. Handsome specimens assert their right to the honours of Carp, Stewed Whole, for which you must have a kettle not much larger than will conveniently hold your fish.