314 THE REARING AND MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN. THE REARING AND MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN.—VI. DIETARY IN EARLY CHILDHOOD. As a general rule the appearance of the different kinds of teeth may be taken as an indication of the description of nourishment most suitable to the growing frame. Thus, till about the age of from five to eight months—i.e., while the gums are in a toothless state—milk should constitute the food of a healthy babe. Between the tenth and six- teenth month the teeth next the front, and also the first double teeth, are generally cut. At twelve months old, if the child be healthy, an evident want of some sort of animal food will generally be apparent. Weak beef-tea, mutton, veal, or chicken-broth thickened with rusks, will then be found excellent nourishment; also a mashed potato and gravy, or crumbs of bread and gravy. After eighteen months, if he have most of his teeth, a slice of mutton or beef minced very small, and mixed with mashed potato and gravy, is quite unobjectionable. If he be delicate, let him have it every day ; if gross and fast-feeding, alternate days. One day meat, as above, and the next day potato and gravy, is the safest rule for a commencement; and pudding every day. When a child is costive in the bowels, well-made oat- meal “stirabout,” with fresh milk, would form the best breakfast he could have. The above is the order of diet suggested by the struc- ture of the teeth and the time of their appearance. De- viations must, of course, occur in the varied circumstances of life under which children are liable to be brought up ; but the nearer we can follow Nature’s dictates in the rearing of the young, the greater are the chances of secur- ing the inestimable boon of a sound mind in a healthy body. Later in life, when the pressure of necessity com- pels young men and women to live under conditions adverse to the true principles of health, little choice may be left as to the, mode of living to observe. Throughout childhood, however, the first care of the guardians of the young should be to approach as nearly as possible to the highest standards of dietary. The circumstance which is most liable to frustrate true nourishment in food is the habit of pampering the appetite of children by the giving of sweetmeats. Plain sugar is not an unhealthy article for food. On the contrary, sugar is with many children an indispensable item in their diet. The natural food of infants is very sweet, and many substitutes would probably be rejected if it were not for the appetising presence of sugar. The notion that sugar has the effect of decaying teeth is not well founded. In order to be a healthful addition to a meal, however, sugar should be taken in its simple form, and should not be eaten at intervals between meals. The inevitable result of giving sweetmeats, chocolate, bon-bons, &c., is to dis- incline the appetite for plain wholesome food. Salt is a necessary as well as a welcome seasoning in infants’ food. A few grains should be in every kind of food—always intermixed. Farinaceous articles being especially adapted to the digestive powers of young children, may constitute a large proportion of their dietary. The variety is almost endless, but only those should be selected as staple articles of food which contain the principal elements of nourishment. Of these the chief is plain wheaten flour. It is worth taking some pains to procure unadulterated flour for nursery use. Having done so, a good mode of preparing the meal is to boil a handful of flour, tied up in a cloth, till perfectly cooked, which may be known by the flour appearing like a hard ball. Turn the flour out of the cloth, and, whenever wanted, add about a dessert- spoonful of flour to half a pint of milk, mixed together gradually, and afterwards boiled for a few minutes. Some persons recommend baked flour. The only objection against the latter is that baked flour is liable to get burnt in the oven, and becomes, consequently, much less digestible. Baked flour used in the manner above de- scribed is very useful to arrest excessive relaxation of the bowels, to which many children are subject. Oatmeal porridge is excellent food for children of any age. Owing, however, to the flinty particles of the husk of the grain, which have an irritating effect on the bowels of most young children, oatmeal is less generally used than wheaten flour. Oatmeal, to be easily digested, re- quires to be well boiled. If made with milk, oatmeal porridge is a highly-nutritious meal, and is well adapted for a school-boy’s breakfast. Properly-prepared barley is a favourite and excellent food for infants. By the process of preparation much of the indigestible portion of the husk should be removed. Barley in the above form is often successfully used when- ever a laxative effect is desired to be produced. Rice is not extensively used in English dietary, except as a thickening for soups or for making puddings. As an addition to a substantial meal, plain boiled rice, eaten with jam or treacle, is much in favour, and is a good substitute for a pudding composed of flour, suet, &c., without the indigestible properties of the latter, if eaten after a full meal. An excellent and most nourishing rice pudding may be made in the following manner :—Take six ounces of rice. Wash and pick it clean. Cover it with cold water till the grain looks swollen. Pour off the water, and add one pint and a half of milk, two ounces of finely-chopped beef suet, a table-spoonful of moist sugar, a little nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Work the suet well into the rice before setting the dish in the oven. This pudding should be baked slowly. The above rice pudding is one of the cheapest and most nourishing that can be compounded. If eaten cold, with the addition of a little jam, it may constitute a pleasant and healthy meal in summer time, when the appetite sickens at anything like animal food. Arrowroot is the least nutritious of the farinaceous articles in general use, and should not be relied on for nourishing properties. Arrowroot is soothing to an irritated state of digestion, but is no “ stay by ” when lengthy intervals in taking food are observed. Arrow- root made with milk is nourishing, inasmuch as the milk itself constitutes the nutriment; but water arrowroot possesses scarcely any nourishing property. Fresh eggs are an invaluable article of food. Stale eggs are most pernicious. The best mode of cooking eggs for young children is to coddle them. This may be easily done by filling a basin, containing a pint and a half, with boiling water, and setting the basin aside by the fire, closely covered, for seven or eight minutes. The basin and its cover should be previously heated. At the expira- tion of the time stated the egg will be found thoroughly set and entirely edible. The white of boiled eggs is not wholesome for young children, and seldom even agrees with adults. Eggs used in puddings composed of farinaceous substances should be well beaten, and added just before the pudding is sent to table. Any browning of the eggs lessens their nutritious properties. Fish is an agreeable change of food, but is very inferior in value to beef and mutton. The best kinds for young children are whiting, smelts, ^nd soles. Melted butter and highly-seasoned sauces should be avoided. Cooked vegetables of most kinds are a very useful vehicle for conveying animal food in its lightest form to young children. A well-steamed potato, or head of cauli- flower, over which gravy from a joint has been poured, is as fine a repast as can be prepared for a child. In the absence of pure meat gravy a well-made cup of beef-tea may be added, a receipt for making which will be found on another page. The beef need not be wasted j covered