THE TOILETTE. 70 THE TOILETTE.—IV. DISORDERS OF THE SKIN {continuedfrom p. 6'^. Piniplcs and Rashes of the Face.—Infants at the breast, when they are much wrapped up or heated, suffer from the development—on the cheeks, neck, arms, body—of little, vivid red, soft, raised pimples, the size of pins’ heads, sometimes scattered about, often congregated together, and accompanied by a little red blush. This eruption is called the “ red gum,” or “ red gown,” “ tooth rash,” and the like. It is a simple affair, due to congestion and slight inflammation of the skin, and it is a sign, as a rule, that the babe is kept too warm. Formerly, when infants were half smothered in clothes and close rooms, red gum was very common indeed. As regards medicine, it may be well to give a few grains of carbonate of soda, to correct acidity, two or three times a day—in the food is as good a way as any—and to use locally several times a day a simple lotion composed of a quarter of an ounce of oxide of zinc, a half tea-spoonful of glycerine, and six ounces of rose- water. A little borax and glycerine, or lemon juice and water will also be of service. In young persons who are passing into adolescence, “pimples” on the face are common, in the shape of black specks, or red pimples, which are hard and raised, and often exhibit a central yellow spot; a little fatty matter may often be squeezed from these spots, and from its form it has been mistaken for a worm. The extruded mass is, however, only a plug of cuticle and fat which fills up the tubes of the little fat glands. The disease of which we are speaking is techni- cally called acne. Some persons think that acne is due to a superabundance of nutritive fluids in the body; but this is not the case. About the age of puberty the whole glands of the body become active, and if anything inter- feres with the circulation through the skin, that is, makes it sluggish, the glands will not secrete their oily matter pro- perly, and will become, therefore, choked up with secre- tion, and the collection of dirt from the external air upon the top of the choked-up gland appears as a black speck ; this is the simplest kind of acne. It will be seen that a vigorous use of soap and water, and rubbing with a fairly rough towel is best adapted to get rid of acne, because by these means the skin is roused from its torpor ; but in other cases the glands will not only be choked up, but inflamed, the acne spots will be red and tender, and the face hot and uncomfortable. Here we must use soothing remedies. The same remark applies to those cases of face pimples which form a rosy rash in middle-aged females, or in those who drink. As regards the general health, there is frequently indigestion present, and the face may flush after every meal. This must be prevented, as the rush of blood to the face only aggravates the acne. The best medicine is about half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, with a little ginger, in water, an hour before every meal, and aperients must also be regularly taken if in the least degree needed. After the indigestion is gone, the sufferer may take five drops of dilute nitric acid, five of dilute hydrochloric acid, and a tea-spoonful of tincture of gentian in water, twice a day. Arsenic may be required in severe cases ; but it should only be taken under medical advice. The face should not be roughly used, but bathed with warm gruel and water night and morning; soap should be avoided, and the following lotion should be applied several times a day with a piece of sponge ; it is a panacea for pimples of all kinds about the face :—Take of oxide of zinc powder sixty grains ; fine calamine powder, as prepared at Apothecaries’ Hall, half-an-ounce ; bichloride of mercury, one grain ; gly- cerine, one teaspoonful; and rose-water, six ounces. For use, shake the lotion up, pour out, and dab on to the face, allowing the powdery substance to dry on, then brush off the superabundant powder with a soft handkerchief, so as to make the appearance passable. Everything that flushes or heats the face, especially beer, should, of course, be avoided. The same remarks apply to red blushes of the face. In the one case the disease is in the fat glands ; in the other, the skin substance. The same remedies are useful in each case. Skin Cosmetics.—This is the place to say a few words on the use of cosmetics. Some of them are harmless, some are dangerous, and most of them injurious to the skin. Cosmetics are used either to give a delicate com- plexion or to heighten the colour, and they include soaps, lotions, powders, and creams. The whites are formed of magnesia, starch, bismuth (which hardens the skin), lead, zinc, white precipitate, &c. The red paints are rouge and carmine. The only admissible substances are zinc, magnesia, and starch (violet powder). But those who use these should be very careful to well wash their faces night and morning, so that no cosmetic powder may remain behind to choke up the pores. We would recom- mend to all who “ uuill use something,” the use at night of perfectly freshly prepared or well preserved elder-flower ointment, and the use of the following lotion as a cos- metic ; a little practice will soon enable the user to finish off the application with a brush in such a way that it cannot be seen :—Powdered borax, five grains ; oxide of zinc powder, two drachms ; finely powdered calamine powder, as made at Apothecaries’ Hall, two drachms ; glycerine, eighty drops ; dilute nitric acid, four drops ; spirits of wine, thirty drops ; distilled water, four ounces. Some of the compounds sold under the name of milk of roses, bloom of beauty, and the like, contain lead or bismuth in large quantities, which may after awhile harden the face and injure the complexion. As we have already said, only the mildest soaps should be used to the face. Dandriff or Scurf ness is a common and troublesome complaint affecting children and grown-up persons alike. The skin scales over very freely, bran-like pieces being constantly shed, and there is more or less itching.; occa- sionally heat and redness are present. The scalp is the part most usually affected. In some cases the scurfiness is a symptom that there is debility in the system or a slightly.gouty tendency, when internal medicine is needed; but usually local applications suffice. When the scalp is rather tender, very irritable, and inclined to inflame, we know of no better application of a simple nature than an embrocation made of equal parts of olive oil and lime- water well shaken together. The scalp should be well cleansed with warm water, but without rough handling, and then the embrocation should be applied with a piece of sponge directly to the scalp. This may be done every night. In some cases the washing is only needed every other day; no soap should be used. This is for the irritable cases. In the more indolent instances, where there is no heat of head, but mere scaliness, it may be best to apply at once some slight stimulant, either in the form of ointment or a wash, according to the taste of the user. The ointment should be made of five grains of the nitric oxide of mercury to the ounce of lard, or three drops of carbolic acid to the ounce of lard. The wash should be of the following ingredients :—Spirits of wine, two drachms ; spirit of rosemary, one ounce ; strong ammonia solution, a teaspoonful; glycerine, a drachm ; and rose- water, six ounces. Where the disease is obstinate, medical advice must be sought. The lime-water and olive-oil embrocation above referred to may be scented according to taste, and is the best application for general use. It should be mixed in small quantities, because it does not keep long in warm weather. Ertiptions.—These are very numerous, and occur over different parts of the body, and it would be an unprofitable task to describe them in any fulness. We shall therefore make some general observations upon them, and give a few plain directions how to treat the simpler and more