CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 249 guiding principle in evei'ything connected with house drains, so the number of connections that may have to be formed with the drain should be as few as possible, as each junction will require to be separately trapped in addition to the connection between the drain and the main sewer. The traps should be of the simplest form, and the least expensive ; perhaps the best form of trap and the least liable to get out of order or require cleaning is the common syphon trap, made of the same material and of the same length as the drain pipe. One of these traps should be inserted at the foot of every soil or waste-water pipe where it is connected with the house drain, and also at the junction with the sewer. Should there be only one water-closet to the house, it may be situated near to the sink, so that the refuse water may enter the same trap as the water-closet, and so help to flush the drain. In all cases, however, the drain should be flushed with water along its entire course, and where the waste from the sink or a rain-water pipe may not be sufficient, a supply must be procured from the cistern by means of the over-flow pipe, of which we shall speak presently. With respect to the ordinary bell traps for sinks and areas, much objection has been found in con- sequence ofthe facility with which they are apt to get out of order ; this more often arises, however, from their misuse than from any great fault in their construction. Thus, through the carelessness of servants, the waste pipes often get choked up with grease and other matter which should not be allowed to enter the trap at all. The bell trap is then, of course, removed in order to clear away the obstruction, and put on one side for a time (perhaps gets broken), allowing, of course, the free ingress of foul air into the house not only from the house drain, but the sewer. The remedy adopted in some cases of soldering the top of the bell trap down is, per- haps, worse than the disease, as this will not prevent the ac- cumulation of grease. Various improvements have been made in the ordinary bell traps. The accompanying drawings show the complete arrange- ment of the drainage for water- closets, lavatory, sink, and yard for an ordinary house, in which the chief object has been to collect all the waste-water pipes at the head of the drain behind the water-closets, in order to flush the drains along their entire length. The basement plan. Fig. 4, shows a scullery twelve feet by eight feet six inches, with copper and sink; behind this there is a water-closet for servants; on the ground floor above. Fig. 3, a smoking or gentleman’s room, with fireplace and lavatory; and another water-closet above the one below. The other plan. Fig. 2, shows the lead or zinc flat above, with a cistern to supply the two water-closets, lavatory, and sink, also a small skylight to light the water-closet. The section, as shown in Fig. i, is taken through the two rooms and both the water-closets, and is intended to show the various soil and water pipes with their connections, &c. The waste pipes from the lavatory and sink are intended to lead into the water-closets to assist in flushing the pipes. There is also a junction between the rain-water pipe and the drain. In addition to this the head of the drain would be ventilated by the rain-water pipe, of which we shall speak presently. All the traps are indicated on the plans by the letter T. The water-closet on the ground floor is trapped with a D trap (as being a superior closet), while the other water-closet in the basement would have a stoneware pan and syphon trap ; there would be a syphon trap also at the foot of the rain-water pipe, and there should also be a cast- lead syphon trap to the lava- tory and sink, but no bell traps are used, the sink having merely a grating to prevent the passage of rubbish. Under- neath the foot of the rain-water pipe, a small brick cesspool about fourteen inches square should be constructed, covered with a five-hole sink stone to receive all rubbish that is sure to be washed down the pipe, and which it is desirable to exclude from the drain. The cesspool can easily be cleaned out by merely re- moving the stone covering. A syphon trap is fixed in the same, and connected with the drain. This arrangement is shown in the illustration, Fig. 4. The Ventilation of Drains is another matter that is not so generally attended to as its importance deserves. In most houses the only mode of ven- tilating the drains is by means of the rain-water pipes ; when this is the case, the head of the rain-water pipe should on no account be situated near any window (as is very often the case), thus allowing the entry of foul air direct from the drains into the bedrooms. The better plan is to construct a proper ventilating pipe or shaft direct from the drains, and terminating above the roof, where the foul air is per- fectly harmless ; another plan would be to utilise tall chimneys as ventilating shafts; in any case the ventilation of drains is a most important matter, and should be as near the head of the drain as pos- sible. Traps, however good may be their construction, are always liable to get out of order, and cannot be implicitly relied upon to prevent the pas- sage of foul air, as the water in them may become dried up by evaporation. Inspection of Drains. — In concluding these remarks upon drainage, we would add that it is most important to have ready access to the drains for the purpose of inspecting or cleansing them. Most people are acquainted with the serious inconvenience of being obliged to have the drains uncovered; thus it is most important, in the first place, that the drains should be so laid as to cause the least possible inconvenience when this is required to be done ; and we should very strongly urge every one who rents or purchases a house to pro- cure from the builder a rough plan, the preparation of which need cost but very little, showing the complete system of the drainage. Some people are of opinion that drains should never be laid inside the house at all, and that all water-closets and sinks should be situated close to an external wall, so that the soil and refuse water may be i'lg. 2. Battersea Public Library.