6+ THE AQUARIUM. introduced. Of these there are two kinds, white {Nymphea alba) and yellow {Nuphar buieum), both of which are to be found in ponds. A disadvantage attendant on the use of these is, that lilies die down in winter, and their leaves, if not removed, encumber the tank without enhancing its beauty. The common water-shield has pretty oval- shaped leaves, which float upon the surface, and from the peculiar way in which they unfold themselves are an object of interest. Reeds and rushes are sometimes used, but require a deeper foundation for their roots than can be usually given. The best method of planting the weeds is to tie each of them to a pebble and sink them below the surface of the shingle. Care should be taken to arrange them with some regard to effect, the shortest being placed in front and the longest behind. A glass of aquatic plants neatly arranged is as ornamental an ob- ject as a fern case, and certainly less common. After all the plants are arranged, a little duck- weed {Lemna minor) may be thrown in. These float upon the surface and har- bour minute insects,which serve as occasional dainty morsels for the fish. Before the intended in- habitants of the aquarium are introduced, the plants should be given time to establish themselves —say about a fortnight. If it be found that a green film overspreads the surface of the glass, this must be taken as a sign, either that too much light has been given, or too many plants have been introduced in proportion to the quantity of water. If the aquarium be suf- ficiently large, a pretty effect may be obtained by building up the rock- work till it reaches some distance above the water, and leaving a space into which a fern may be planted, as shown in our illustration. If it be intended to introduce small frogs or newts, which are quite admissible, the aquarium should be covered with glass, to prevent their crawling over the sides. They may appear perfectly contented and happy all day, but newts have nocturnal migratory habits, and are most likely to find their way down-stairs before morn- ing, unless prevented. The cover of a bell-glass should be a circular piece of glass, large enough to project a quarter of an inch over the rim, with a round hole cut in the centre to admit the air. This also answers the purpose of keeping out the dust when the room is swept. Amphibious creatures should never be kept entirely in the water. To give them a resting-place, a little island should be prepared for them, in this manner:—Take a piece of cork of an irregular shape, smear it over with marine glue, and then sprinkle it with sand ; let it stand to dry, and then place it in water for some time. When seasoned,” it may be floated on the surface of the aquarium. The newts will soon give evidence of their appreciating this provision for their convenience, by climbing upon it and diving from it. THE SELECTION OF FRESH-WATER ANIMALS. The first specimens of animal life which should be placed in an aquarium are the molluscs. Of these, the i horny coil shell {Planorbis corneas) and the pond mud shell {Lijnnea stagnalis) are the most plentiful and best suited. Both these aquatic snails may be found in stagnant pools or sluggish rivers. They feed upon the weeds, and may be captured by drawing a net along the submerged stems of rank grass or rushes that grow close to the shore. They have been termed the scavengers of i the aquarium, because they assist in keeping down the j superabundant vegetation,, and consume the minute green growth that accumulates upon the sides of the glass. They are very active, and the motion of the planorbis i is particularly graceful. j There are also two < kinds of mussel that may | be introduced, the swan j mussel (Anodon cygneus) ) and the duck mussel j {Untopicionun), but they j possess no especial recom- mendation, and require careful watching lest they die and pollute the water. Among the lively crea- tures that deserve a place ^ in the aquarium, there 1 are few more interesting than the common water- spiders {Argyroncta aqua- | tica). These form especi- i ally attractive objects on account of their activity, and their habit of rising to the surface, drawing a globule of air underneath the water, and carrying it down, as if it were a jewel attached to the hind part of the body. If the aqua- rium be in good condition, the water-spiderwill some- times weave a web and construct its nest, and live in confinement for a* ' considerable period. There are several varie- tiesof thebeetle tobefound in rivers and ponds, but only two that can be safely intro- duced into the aquarium—the large harmless beetle {Hy- drous piccus), and the little whirligig {Gyritius natator). The former, though large in size, is distinguished for its amicable disposition ; the latter, though small, makes up for its insignificant proportions by whirling about and persistently forcing itself into notice. The caddis-worm, or cad-bait, is a favourite object for the aquarium. It is the larvae of the May-fly, and may be found in the shallows of rivers and streams. With minute pieces of twigs, grains of sand, and other obtainable materials, these worms construct grotto-like nests, the particles of which they fasten together by means of silken threads, secreted in the same manner as in the silk-worm. The methodical, careful, and business-like way in which the caddis builds its dwelling affords an admirable illus- tration of the instinct possessed by the insect tribe ; and the operation may be easily observed in the aquarium, by the use of an ordinary magnifying glass placed on the outside near the spot where the creature is at work. AQUARIUM WITH ROCKWOKK AND FERN.