CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 335 four hours, consisting of a teaspoonful of the effervescing citro-tartrate of soda of the British Pharmacopoeia. Should the sickness continue, or be accompanied with other persisting symptoms, a medical man should be consulted. The great thing for people subject to such attacks is to avoid them. By avoiding exposure to cold and wet, and such articles of food and drink as are likely or known to disagree with them or to irritate the stomach, it will often be possible to prevent such attacks coming on. HINTS TO LETTER-WRITERS'—VI. In addressing letters to go by post, accuracy is of supreme importance. Myriads of letters find their way to the Dead Letter Office annually, in consequence of insufficient address. There are in the metropolis a great many streets named alike, as North Street, South Street, High Street, Market Street, &c. To prevent miscarriage, therefore, not only should the name of the street follow the name of the person addressed, but it is well to add the parish, and essential to mark the postal district. To lessen the labour of the letter-carriers, the number of the house, as well as the name of the street should be written. The one rule is to specify whatever is required to indicate the district, street, house, and individual. Risk is rather incurred than diminished, however, in ordinary cases, by giving the name of a house. Thus, suppose A. B. resides at a house called Rosemary Lodge, London Road, it is best to omit the mention of “ Rosemary Loage” if the number is known, though it matters little if the number is put upon the envelope. For example, we may either write, “A. B., Esq., Rosemary Lodge, 666, London Road, E.or, “A. B., Esq., 666, London Road, E.” Usually, the preference should be given to brevity. When the number is unknown, it is very desirable to give the initials or Christian name of the person addressed, because there may be others of the name in the neighbourhood. In writing to country places confusion often arises from the failure to prefix the initials of the person addressed, for in small towns there are several families of one name. There are many country places, also, which’ are named alike, as Barton, Burton, Norton, Sutton, Morton, &c. To prevent error, the county should be indicated ; and as even this may not be enough if the place wanted is not a post town, it is needful to put in the name of the post town. A letter addressed “ George Jones. Esq., Stratford," might be sent either to Stratford-on-Avon in Warwick, or to Stratford in Essex, whereas the mention of the county would prevent mistake. Letters to the smaller towns in Scotland may have N.B. (North Britain) inscribed upon them; letters for North or South Wales may have the initials N.W. or S.W., as the case may be; and letters for Ireland may have that word below the address. To mention aU the cases in which similar precautions are advisable would occupy too much space ; those which have been given will be sufficient for persons of ordinary prudence. In writing letters to America several precautions must be observed. To the United States, the address should always end with either U.S.A. or “ United States of America.” Moreover, the particular State must be indi- cated, either by the name in full, or by an abbreviation. The Americans are fond of abbreviations, but some of them are little known here : thus, D.C. means the District of Columbia ; N.Y. is New York ; Pa. is Pennsylvania ; Me. is Maine ; N.H. is New Hampshire ; Vt. is Vermont; Mass, is Massachusetts; R.l. is Rhode Island; N.J. is New Jersey; Ct. is Connecticut; Del. is Delaware; Md. is Maryland; Va. is Virginia; N.C. is North Carolina ; S.C. is South Carolina ; Geo. or Ga. is Georgia; Ala, is Alabama; Mi. is Mississippi; La. is Louisiana; Ten. is Tennessee ; Ky, is Kentucky; O. is Ohio; Ind. is Indiana; 111. is Illinois: Mo. is Missouri; Mich, is Michigan ; Ark. is Arkansas ; FI. is Florida; Wis. is Wisconsin ; lo. is Iowa; Tex. is Texas ; and Or. is Oregon. The importance of these names or abbreviations will appear when we state that the American Union is said to contain more than fifty places called Washington. With reference to New York City the name of New York must be written in full. Similar rules apply to the British territories. The letters U.C. are for Upper Canada; L.C. for Lower Canada ; N.S. for Nova Scotia ; N.B. for New Bruns- wick ; and N.P. for New Providence. In writing from this country it is undesirable to employ these abbreviations. Letters for Australia should specify the colony, whether New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, or Western Australia, with such other details as may tend to ensure correct transmission, such as the nearest post town when outlying places are in question. In like manner letters for New Zealand should state what province they are meant for. It may not be amiss to note that the rate of postage for letters to America and the colonies, and to many foreign countries, varies with the mode of conveyance and the route ; therefore it is well to obtain information upon these points, which may be done at any post-office, and may prevent expense and trouble. There are places to which letters are not forwarded at all unless prepaid. Thus, for a letter to Victoria via Southampton, 6d. must be prepaid for half an ounce ; and for the same colony vid Marseilles, lod. must be prepaid. If, in this case, only 6d. is prepaid, the letter will probably be forwarded vid Southampton or vid Panama, although the words ''''vid Marseilles” are written on the envelope. Where there is only one route and one charge, it is possible the letter will not be sent at all if insufficiently stamped, though it may be opened and returned to the writer if he has put his name and address inside, as he ought to do. There are many other classes of foreign letters, as those to the continent of Europe, respecting which sundry precautions are needed. Some foreign towns and cities do not bear the same names with us as they do abroad ; but this will not cause any difficulty to the sender of letters to such places. To show what we mean, we will give a few examples. Not only is Belgium called Belgique, but Brussels is called Bruxelles, and Liege, Liittich, while Malines is Mechlin. Aix-la-Chapelle, again, is called Aachen ; Mayence is Mentz and Maintz ; and Vienna is Wien. In Italy, Leghorn is Livorno ; Turin is Torino ; Florence is Firenza, and Genoa is Genova. The know- ledge of such differences is less important to the sender oi letters than to the receiver; and yet it is well to be aware of the fact of their existence. The best rule in writing to foreign places is to employ the spelling adopted by our General Post Office in its official lists. Nor is it neces- sary to imitate the form of address usual in the country to which a letter is sent. This is optional. Thus, in writing to Paris we might address a letter in the French fashion, and say— a Monsieur, M Jacquet, Rue de Bretagne, 64, a Paris. But it would answer every purpose to write— M. Jacquet, 64, Rue de Bretagne, Paris. There is only one caution which need be given in reference to addressing a French gentleman, and that is, never to write to him as “Mon. Jacquet,” or whoever he may be. Either prefix “ M.,” “ Mons.,” or “ Monsieur but never “ Mon.” which is accounted very vulgar. In the case of letters to the provinces of France, the “department,” corresponding to an English county, should be named, unless the town be an important one, when it is optional