225 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. POINT LACE WORK.—I. The longer we live in this world the more we find that there is indeed nothing new under the sun, and each successive day only brings us back to the works and devices of our ancestors. It is even so with the employments, or rather amusements, in which ladies spend their hours of leisure from more im- portant occupations; and the point lace, on which so much time was spent in days when it was used for ecclesiastical purposes, as well as for every orna- lace braid, some fine linen thread, and a large needle (No. 6). All these can be procured at a Berlin wool shop. The tracing linen must be cut about half an inch larger than the design, and kept quite flat and very steady while the pattern is traced off with pen and ink upon it; next, a piece of the toile cirie should be cut to the same size exactly, and the linen with the design closely tacked to it all round the edge, so as to ensure the flatness and firmness of both. The braid employed may be of two kinds, the plain, with an open edge, a, or one with a round opening at intervals in the centre, b, Fig. 3, giving a Fig- 3- Fig. 4- Fig. I. mental part of woman’s dress, has again become a fashionable pursuit, many a female finger being now busy in imi- tating, although it cannot excel, the handiwork of those long since gathered to their fathers. Innumerable are the uses to which this imita- tion of the old point lace may be made serviceable in a lady’s dress, to say nothing of the orna- mental articles of juve- nile apparel, and the adornment of furniture, to which it may be applied. We therefore propose to dedicate a few chapters Fig. to this favourite occu- pation, and, to commence with, we present an effective but simply worked pattern, Fig. 2. The materials required will be some tracing linen, which can be purchased at a good stationer’s, some toile dree, green on one side* several yards (say a dozen) of point more decidedly lace-like appearance to the work. To avoid joining, which is very important, the braid should be wound double on a card, leaving the two ends to com- mence the work with ; by this means cutting is avoided. The braid must be carefully sewn on with middle-sized reel cotton, taking the stitches (of which there should not be too many) quite through both linen and toile drd, and following the design in all its meanderings as exactly as possible. In those parts where the leaves are pointed, great care should be taken to keep them as flat as pos- 2. sible at the point, and the braid should be folded and kept to the shape, in turning it, with much nicety. When the whole design has been braided, the outside edge of the braid has an open stitch worked into it, which we will call the “ open over-cast, ” and it is thus accom-^ 15—N.s.