lO THE REARING AND MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN. may be conveniently used, and a turn having been taken round the wrist to hx the bandage, a series of figure of eight loops around the thumb and wrist should be made, beginning as low down on the thumb as may be neces- sary, and making each fold of the bandage overlap that which preceded it, as shown in the illustration. Fig. 6. Wounds of the palm of the hand, if severe, should be immediately seen by a surgeon, but as a temporary measure a slice of cork wrapped up in a piece of linen may be firmly bound upon the bleeding point with a bandage. This should be applied in figure of eight loops around the wrist and hand, being made to cross at the point where the pressure is required, as shown in the illustration. Fig. 7, and this should be repeated a few times so as to control the bleeding. It may be advisable where assistance is not readily obtainable, to bandage the fore- arm in addition, and this may be done by carrying the bandage once or twice round the wrist alone, and then proceeding up the arm, turning down the bandage in the manner shown in the illustration. Fig. 8, when the shape of the arm does not allow it to lie flat and close upon the injured limb. THE REARING AND MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN.—I. THE MOTHER AND BABY. When a woman is about to become a mother, she ought to remember that another life of health or delicacy is dependent upon the care she can take of herself; that all she does will inevitably affect her child, and that men- tally as well as physically. We know that it is utterly impossible for the wife of the labouring man to give up work, and, what is called, “take care of herself,” as others can. Nor is it necessary. The “back is made for its burthen.” It would be just as injurious for the labourer’s wife to give up her daily work and exercise, as for the lady to take to sweeping her own carpets or cooking the dinner. Habit becomes second nature. We know “ Use almost can change the stamp of nature.” So that, although naturally the delicacy of the womanly frame might seem to demand rest at such a time, the nature acquired by habit or use demands, for health’s sake, the same routine of exercise and exertion. He who placed one woman in a position where labour and exertion are parts of her existence, gives her a stronger state of body than her more luxurious sisters. To one inured to toil from childhood, ordinary work is merely exercise, and, as such, necessary to keep up her physical powers, though extra work should be, of course, avoided as much as possible. Lifting heavy weights, taking long walks, stooping for many hours over a washing-tub, or raising the hands above the head—all these things might be avoided or done in moderation even by the cottager’s wife. At such a time, too, the woman ought to be as careful as she can of her diet, and eat regularly, and in moderate quantity. Overloading the stomach increases the sick- ness so often attendant upon her state. The vulgar notion of what is called “longing” for unusual food should be discouraged as inconsistent and ridiculous. Country women very seldom send for the doctor until it is too late, and arc therefore subjected to the treatment of an amateur, and often utterly ignorant, nurse, who acts with the best intentions in the world, and saves her neighbour a few shillings, but will often lay the foundation of many years of debility and suffering. Good and correct nursing is indispensable to future health and strength, and the importance of this people are beginning to recognise ; and ere long, we have reason to believe, every village will be supplied with a trained and certificated nurse. There is a fatal error in the idea, very prevalent, in some classes of society, that to get up soon is the sign of a “clever woman;” and a sort of rivalry exists upon the point—the mother who can soonest “ feel her feet,” and get to her usual work or business, being looked up to and envied by her neighbours. There can scarcely ever be any reason why a woman should get up and work under nine days, at least. Neigh- bours are always ready to come in and set the house to rights, or see to the children and husband. Therefore, by all means, rest the prescribed nine days. Let Nature perform her work her own way, and you will find your reward in an after-time of strength and comfort. In nine cases out of ten, the rash and indecently early rising from childbed is not from a sense of duty or neces- sity, but simply out of bravado. This period of after- repose is particularly required at a first confinement, the strength and health of the mother’s whole life depending upon judicious treatment at such a critical time. The great thing for the nurse to observe, after the baby is born, is to keep the mother’s mind free from excitement or anxiety, and to preserve as much quiet in the house as possible. In a healthy woman, Nature will do her own doctoring, and do it thoroughly ; but when there is ill-health or debility, the nurse or doctor must help Nature, and be in their turn attended to and assisted by those immediately connected with the patient. For a few days, weak tea and bread, or gruel, may be the proper food ; but a very great change has taken place in the diet prescribed by the medical practitioners of the present day, resulting naturally from experience and scientific discoveries; and under medical advice, beef tea, and even mutton chops, may be administered, almost the next day after confinement, with much advantage. This, however, had better depend on advice given to suit the individual case, as no absolute rule can be laid down. A nursing mother should live well. She may take a glass of porter or ale at dinner. Sour things should be avoided on the infant’s account. Should she suffer from palpitations, dizziness, dimness of sight, or night-perspira- tions, she is not in a fit condition to continue nursing. By the “Rules” of the Obstetrical Society of London, nursing should be concluded after the ninth month, the child being gradually weaned. Should the infant appear exhausted and cold imme- diately after birth, sponge it all over with brandy or some spirit. Should it be prematurely born, do not attempt to dress it in the ordinary way, but simply roll it up in soft warm wraps, as soon as it has been washed and powdered. Warm rain-water and Castile soap should be used for the washing. It should be put to the breast within three or four hours after birth. If there be no milk, wait for some time before giving artificial food. If obliged to give it, it must not be gruel; one-third of new milk, and two-thirds of warm water, slightly sweetened, should be given every four hours till the mother can nurse, and then be discontinued. For the first month the suckling should be at intervals of every hour and a half ; for the second every two hours, lengthening the periods of rest to every four hours. Do not feed the child to stop crying. An e.xperienced nurse will judge from the cries and movements of the infant the nature of its complaint. If a stomach-ache, the cries are long, loud, and passionate ; it sheds tears, stops, recom- mences, and draws up its legs to the stomach. As the pain subsides it stretches them out again, and after some sobbing it falls asleep. If the cause of crying be inflammation of the chest, the cries will not be loud, nor will there be tears ; but after drawing a deeper breath than before at intervals of a few