CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. reveals four or five drawers, and above these is generally a small recess with two doors on each side. On each side this centre arrangement is a door which on being opened presents a hanging closet; also at the bottom, generally a deep drawer: sometimes the drawers here are omitted. A japanned wardrobe of this description can be purchased without the glass for nine guineas, with it, for eleven guineas. A smaller wardrobe of japanned wood, with a hanging recess only, enclosed by a door and with two deep drawers, will cost about five guineas. Mahogany and walnut wardrobes can be had at any intermediate price from eight guineas to eighty and upwards. Walnut-wood is a trifle more expensive than mahogany. Very good substitutes for hanging closets may be made by utilising the recesses which are to be found in every modern house, instead of the capacious cupboards and closets with which an old one abounds. A deal shelf should be placed six feet from the ground in one of the recesses, and a foot or two above this a second shelf. Underneath the lowest shelf should be inserted wooden pegs, or a bronzed iron rod, with five bronzed hooks which slide along the rod, or one of the portable mahogany “hanging wardrobes,” as they are termed, supported by two strong brass-headed nails; this arrangement covered by ample dimity or chintz curtains, or lace over pink cambric, at once improvises a hanging closet. There should be double curtains, one short one, or two meeting in the centre, arranged with curtain-rings, on an iron rod, the two ends slipped into two iron staples. The lower curtains are managed in the same way, but so that they may be drawn or undrawn, without materially interfering with the upper one. White dimity curtains, which may be made ornamental by bordering them with coloured stripes of a pretty chintz, are the best kind, and give the least trouble when washed. Two very useful articles in a room are an ottoman for dresses, and a boot and shoe press with a tray. That for dresses' should be a box as long as the bedstead is wide ; any packing-box will do, covered both on the outside and in- side. When the cover is lifted, the front should unhook and fall down on hinges, and reveal inside three trays, made to slide in and out; the trays are of course taped in the usual manner, so that when any dress deposited upon them is wanted, it can be removed without disturbing the others. The lid should have strong hinges and a lock, and a cushion made square at the edges (like a bordered bed), stuffed with worsted wool, and nailed on at the edges with tin tacks. The inside paper should be blue. The outside may be covered with black leather-cloth glued on, so that, if needed, the box will bear a journey or a voyage. To make it look handsome in the room, it must have a chintz covering lined with unbleached calico, or any other strong and cheap material, and this slipped over the box, so that it is readily removable for access to its contents. Bedroom chairs are to be bought at all prices, and of all descriptions, but mahogany, rosewood, and walnut are rarely, and excepting by desire, sold as bedroom chairs. Birch, sycamore, and bamboo are used. The old-fashioned rush-seated chair has given place to interlaced cane, which is to be preferred for appearance and cleanliness, as rush seats hold the dust. Chairs painted in blue, or pink and white, match similarly painted furniture ; all others vary in price from 3s. 6d. to 8s. A sofa, or an easy-chair, is desirable in a bedroom (though a very serviceable reclining couch may be impro- vised from the garde-robe ottoman above described, with the addition of a pillow). An excellent sofa, convertible into a bed, if needed, and soft enough, is obtainable for 65s., and even a less sum. Bedroom sofas and easy- chairs should not exhibit much wood, and should be well stuffed with worsted wool. Some of them are miser- able affairs, and to be avoided. It is common to have mahogany wash-stands with marble tops, yet when the other furniture is of polished deal, certainly the wash-stand should be the same; but as marlole would be out of place on deal, the top should be painted a plain white, not marbled. It is not difficult to renew this. A good way to keep the top of a wash-stand always fresh-looking, is to cover it with an American cloth, to look like white marble. A portion of the centre should be cut out, if needed, to admit the basin. Marble tops are liable to get very discoloured and spotted. Many recipes have been published for cleaning marble; but stains made by chemicals are usually indelible. A mis- tress will need to be very particular in observing that a marble top is kept clean by being wiped every day, and at least twice a week it should be scrubbed with hot water and soda, without soap. Acids destroy the polish. There are points about chests of drawers which, if fur- niture be desired to last, should be looked to. One set will appear outwardly as good as another, though at a much lower price, and, of course, inferior in quality. Inferior chests of drawers are made of common white deal, the drawers are roughly dove-tailed together, and the backs of the chests, not of the drawers, so thin and rough that they will, after a time, scarcely bear removal from one room to another ; the locks are badly put in, and are of the commonest description ; moreover, the drawers are with difficulty pulled out or pushed in, from the wood being green and unseasoned, old, or otherwise of inferior quality. THE TOILETTE.—VI. MANAGEMENT OF THE SKIN {continued from p. 124). The Shingles.—Every mother ought to be able to recognise this form of eruption. The shingles attacks one side only—it may be the face, the trunk, or the limbs, generally it is the side of the chest. The disease is often preceded by sharp neuralgic pain—it may be severe—followed by an eruption of little bladders, the size of millet-seeds or small peas, in clusters of some ten, twenty, or more, on a red base. The pain is relieved by the eruption. Fresh crops appear, so that the eruption, after a few days, is observed to extend in a band- like form from the spine behind round the side to the middle line of the chest before—that is, encircling half the chest. The band of eruption is not continuous, but made up of several patches. After a few days, the little bladders dry, and scabs succeed. In ten or fourteen days all trace is gone, save a little pitting and redness. The disease must not be meddled with. We should take care not to let it be irritated by the clothes, or by any rubbing ; but apply at first a little starch powder, and after a day or so a little zinc ointment spread on linen. If there be much pain after the rash has come out, special remedies will be needed, which the medical man must prescribe ; but in the majority of cases the treatment is to be a let-alone one. When shingles occurs in the face, it attacks one side ; and when in the arms or legs, it does not encircle them, but runs down the limb parallel to its long axis. On the trunk, the eruption is, so to speak, horizontally disposed. Sore Nipples.—These chiefly result, first, from the suck- ling of the child at nipples that have been flattened, so to speak, or pressed upon by tight dresses ; and, secondly, by the want of cleanliness. Mothers should, therefore, always take care to prevent any pressure by the dress. The nipple, after nursing, where there is a tendency to soreness, should be sponged with warm water and washed with a little weak rum and water, or borax and glycerine, and this should be removed before the child is put to the breast. On no account should milk be permitted to remain about the nipple, for when it gets sour it causes irrita- tion. Another good plan is to get very thin leaden shields, to wear when the child is not at the breast.