266 THE DOG. that characterise the flower afterwards. To make them up, cement each all round the centre as far as where the petals divide. Crumple the first one quite close up all round the heart, hiding it entirely, and squeezing the paper as much as possible. Make the next one close, and each future one looser and looser. Finish with the calyx. If you make your own calyx, it ought to be formed and dry ready for use, and a little wool secured inside by cement. After it is made, gum over the outside. Primrose (Fig. i6).—This is made with three rounds, either of pale yellow paper over the Michaelmas daisy heart, the first paper crumpled well up to conceal all the heart, the second partly closed and the outer one flat. Or it may be of mauve, cut in white paper and coloured at the edge like the rhododendron, or tinted pale pink. THE DO G.—V I. DISEASES OF DOGS. In giving .a few general outlines of the symptoms and treatment of the ordinary complaints to which dogs are liable, we may make one introductory remark. If you keep a dog which is either of unusual value intrinsi- cally, or is much prized as a pet, ascertain, whilst the animal is yet in health, the whereabouts of the very best canine physician in the neighbourhood. In most large towns there is some dog practitioner of high repute, and, in the absence of such, it may be needful to consult a veterinary surgeon, huntsman, or gamekeeper ; but these latter are only to be trusted in the case of large, hardy dogs, such as they are chiefly accustomed to, and the former are very often totally ignorant of the dog’s nature. In fact, very many drugs have upon the dog an entirely differe}it action from that they exert upon man or other animals. To give one or two familiar instances : aloes is a violent purge to the human subject, while castor- oil is a gentle laxative justly valued ; to the dog, on the contrary, castor-oil is a most violent purgative, while aloes produce little or no effect whatever. Again, salt is almost necessary to preserve health in man ; but with the dog small quantities cause nausea and vomiting, while in larger doses the condiment deserves to be called a poison. It may be generally stated that dog-practice, during the last twenty years, has undergone a radical change, much akin to that in the higher walks of medicine. Tonic treatment has taken the place of depletic medicine, and much greater faith is placed in the powers of nature, with great gain to all concerned. Foremost in this bene- ficent and mild school of treatment is Mr. Edward Mayhew ; and wherever we have given actual prescrip- tions in this and the following paper, we have followed the proportions laid down by him. Diminutive bitches can seldom rear more than two pups, and few pet dogs more than three ; robust animals may be able to suckle all their litter. If more valuable pups must be reared than the mother can nourish, either a cat or a foster-bitch of some common breed should be provided, or fits will be the consequence. Should such occur, the best treatment will be an enema of ether and laudanum in gruel, followed by a spoonful of wine, and tonic treatment, as we shall describe in speaking of distemper, when con- sciousness is restored ; the mother must be kept away at night, but may be allowed to suckle her pups in the day, after they have been well fed with cow’s milk from a bottle such as is used for children, only the nipple should be made with the old-fashioned wash-leather, pricked with holes, and filled with a bit of sponge or cotton to give it substance. To rear pups by hand is not difficult, but very troublesome, as they want feeding at night. They should be suckled about a quarter of an hour, and it will only be needful to keep the teat from becoming sour. In less than a month, however, they may be taught to lap. when they should get a little meat scraped to pulp, and a week after tasting this they will feed themselves. It often happens that the smallest pup is, for that very reason, the most valuable. In that case the owner will have to see it has its share, or in the general scramble at every meal it will get crowded out and starved. If no other means avail, the bitch should be held while the pup sucks its fair allowance. As they grow up they will probably have to pass through the dreaded distemper, which, as a rule, affects young dogs, though it is a mistake to say it is universal, as there are many dogs which escape it altogether, while others only suffer late in life. Still, the usual period is towards the end of dentition, and the most frequent seasons of the year are spring and autumn. At these times young dogs should be carefully examined occa- sionally for symptoms. And as it is always found that dogs fed upon flesh, highly fed in any way, or kept in confinement, suffer far more than those fed on plain and rather spare diet, with plenty of exercise, common sense will dictate the treatment best suited for all such animals. The earliest symptoms are indefinite, dulness and loss of appetite being sometimes all that can be remarked, while, on other occasions, the appetite may be voracious. In most cases, however, the inner edges of the eyelids will soon be observed to be redder than usual, while the pulse is increased. Still, distemper may not be present, but if the animal speedily begins to seek the fire, and is felt to shiver with cold, the case is nearly certain. When confirmed, however, the white round the eye is covered with small bright red veins, tending towards the centre, while a purulent discharge begins to appear, and also a little yellowish discharge from the nostrils, while the nose remains diy and hard. A bad cough often sets in, and the dog frequently vomits, and some digestive disorder is always apparent. In a week the symptoms often subside, and sometimes disappear altogether ; perhaps, indeed, this is generally the case, and the owner is apt to believe the disease has run its course. It may, indeed, be so, for many dogs only suffer very slightly. If such be the case, the dog will rapidly make flesh, or fatten, and recover condition, while the eyes look healthy, and the morbid symptoms disappear; but if the emaciation contmties, or the animal makes no progress, and especially if the white of the eye presents the appearance of inmute blood- vessels in a radial direction, the disease is only slum- bering, and will break out again with tenfold force. In aggravated cases, the discharge from the eyes and nose becomes excessive, completely stopping up the nos- trils, and sometimes ulcerating the eye itself One of the worst signs is a great and rapid loss of flesh, especially if the appetite be good. A filthy, foetid coat, suddenly swarming with vermin, is also a very unfavourable sign, and so is a very foul and coated tongue, dry at the tip, with a marked foulness of the breath. On the contrary, an evident amendment in the eyes, a marked improvement in the condition, and the return of the tongue to a healthy state, hold out every reasonable hope of recovery. The first thing in the treatment is to regulate the diet. Meat must be taken away, and the generality of dogs put upon bread and milk—a ship-biscuit and milk. Weakly dogs may have boiled rice, with a little broth free from fat; and as they will frequently refuse this at first, a little good underdone meat may be minced fine and mixed with it, gradually lessening the quantity till none be given, for all meat, sweets, and delicacies micst be denied. The water must be often changed. The dog should be put in a good sheltered kennel, but in the open airj all blankets and such pampering beds taken away, but plenty of good hay and straw allowed instead. This is needed, because the dog will burrow in it when the shivering fit is on him ; and the bed, moreover, must be shaken and cleansed every day, and entirely changed every two days.