284 the qualities AND VALUES OF GOLD AND SILVER. them into pieces not much larger than a haricot bean. Chop, nearly as small, carrots, turnips, onions, and leeks. Mix all together with a little flour. At the bottom of a large stewpan put a lump of butter well worked in flour and a pint of water. In this, half stew, half toss-up, your chopped meat and vegetables, stirring continually, and separating the bits of meat which stick together. Do this for twenty minutes. You may either let them take a little colour in the floured butter before adding the water, or you may brown with a bit of burnt onion afterwards. Then add three pints of hot water, and let it boil for half an hour, stirring occasionally, that nothing sticks to the bottom. Season lightly with pepper and salt. You may either strain the broth away from the meat and vegetables, or serve them in it; when it will be a veritable ragout soup, especially if enriched with a bunch of sweet herbs, a glass of white wine, and a table-spoonful of mushroom catchup. Porridge.—Put a pint of water into a stewpan. When it boils, with one hand dredge into it two ounces of oat- meal, and with the other stir it with a spoon. Pour it out into a basin or soup-plate ; add salt or sugar according to taste, and pour over it half a pint of cold milk, mixing the milk and boiled oatmeal together little by little with a spoon. This will be found to make an exceedingly nu- tritious breakfast for children. Gruel is usually made by pouring gradually a pint of cold water over two table-spoonfuls of oatmeal groats, and keeping it stirred till it has boiled two minutes. Mix one tablespoonful of the groats with two of cold water. Pour to it a pint of boiling water, and boil from five to ten minutes, keeping it well stirred. Increase or diminish the quantity according to the thickness of the gruel re- quired. No straining is necessary. Pour it into a basin, and, to make it more palatable, add a pinch of salt, a dust of sugar, a bit of butter. Barley Water.—Put a quart of cold water into a sauce- pan ; throw into it a teacupful of pearl-barley; let it come slowly to a boil, and then boil it gently for ten minutes. Pour it, barley and all, into a jug ; when cold it is fit for use. Leave the barley in the water until it is all drunk. Barley water may also be slightly flavoured according to taste. THE QUALITIES AND VALUES OF GOLD AND SII.VER. The extent to which gold and silver are used, and the variations in their quality and fineness, render it desirable to supply some information on the subject. Both these metals are almost invariably mixed with some other of inferior worth called alloy, and the value of them is determined by the amount of alloy. In electro-plating, the pure metal has to be used. For gold coins, what is called standard gold is employed, containing one-twelfth, or two parts in twenty-four, alloy. If, therefore, an ounce of standard gold be divided into twenty-four parts, it con- tains twenty-two parts of pure gold, and two parts of alloy ; and it is called twenty-two carat gold. This is the gold of which English sovereigns and half-sovereigns are coined. Standard silver, of which our silver coinage is made, consists of thirty-seven parts silver and three parts copper. Of this silver, all articles of plate bearing the hall mark are made, no inferior quality being marked. In France the standard is lower, being nine parts silver to one copper, and therefore worth a smaller sum per ounce. In Prussia a still lower standard is adopted, and one-fourth of alloy is allowed. The price of silver varies so greatly that it is impossible to give any exact value. The price at any particular period may, how- ever, easily be ascertained from the quotations in the daily press. Silver of an inferior quality is made up into watch- chains and a great many ornaments, and is of less value. In actual practice, silver containing alloy to the extent of one-half or one-third is seldom or never sold by weight, but only in a manufactured form at so much per article. It may be taken for granted that whatever bears an, English hall mark is standard silver. These hall marks, are explained at page i8o. In purchasing silver spoons, forks, and plate generally, more or less is charged over and above the intrinsic value of the metal. The extra charge depends upon circumstances, such as the pattern or the antiquity of the goods. We mention antiquity^ because old plate will often sell for more than new. In the case of gold the variations are greater. As observed, the ounce is divided into twenty-four parts or carats, of which a certain number are alloy. Articles of jewellery are made of every degree of fineness, and in consequence, what is by courtesy called gold often con- tains very little of the precious metal. Thus, an ounce of six-carat gold consists of three-fourths alloy, which is practically worthless, and only the one-fourth gold is estimated. To show the difference which may exist, it is only necessary to say that an ounce of so-called gold which contains but one carat of pure gold is worth but 3s. 6d., while an ounce of perfectly pure gold is worth four guineas. We say four guineas, though some tables give X4 6s., and others a little more. In fact, the values of gold and silver fluctuate with the state of the market hence our prices are only approximate. Very few articles of jewellery are of a higher standard than eighteen carat, or eighteen carats fine, as it is called. Many are fifteen, carat, thirteen carat, nine carat, and of even much lower denominations. Articles which are stamped, or hall- marked, bear figures which indicate the number of carats; and in buying rings, &c., which are said to be hall-marked, those figures must be looked to. The gold of an eighteen- carat ring hall-marked is worth double what it would be if only nine carat. As in the case of silver, of course purchasers are charged for manufacture and profit, and be it observed that cheap goods may and do cost as. much as the best for making. The following table will,, we believe, now be intelligible :— s. d. I dwt. of nine-carat gold costs 0 1 7 5 )? 33 0 7 lOl 10 5) 35 0 15 9 15 33 I 3 -1 / ’S 20 ,, (I oz.) „ 33 I 11 6 I dwt. of twelve-carat gold costs ... 0 2 I 5 » 3> 0 10 6 10 33 I I 0 15 » 33 I 11 6 20 » (I oz.) „ 33 2 2 0 I dwt. of fifteen-carat gold costs ... 0 2 7i 5 33 0 13 u 10 3) 33 I 6 3 15 33 33 I 19 4i 20 » (i oz.) ,, 33 2 12 6 I dwt. of eighteen-carat gold costs... 0 3 I* 5 33 33 0 15 9 10 33 33 I 11 6 15 33 2 7 3 20 » (I OZ.) „ 33 3 3 0 / Where fractions of a penny, or of farthings, occur, it will be observed that they are not always rigidly exact in the tables. This is an unavoidable evil, and it may be con- venient in actual practice to discard farthings and lesser fractions where small quantities are concerned. Thus eighteen-carat gold may be estimated at 3s. 2d. the dwt.; seventeen-carat gold at 3s. the dwt. ; twenty-two carat gold at 3s. lod. the dwt., &c.