CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 177 CHILDREN’S DRESS.—IV. CLOTHING FOR INFANTS [continued from f. 119). Short-coating the Baby.—There are two important things that never should be forgotten in dressing infants and children : neither to load them with clothes, nor swells round it, often the occasion of weak joints and thick and unshapely limbs in after life. Up to a year old, the little knitted sock all of soft wool is the best foot- covering for the infant human being. After that, when the child begins to walk a little, and toddles from chair to chair, a similar knitted sock, with a cork sole to it, is to let them, on the other hand, be exposed to cold insufficiently pro- tected. With a young child, care to shield it from draughts and to wrap it in a comfortable cloak, and not to expose it to inclement weather, is most necessary. Over- heating clothing weakens children, and by causing profuse perspira- tion, predisposes them to take cold. Golds are the commencement of all kinds of diseases, and some- times establish a permanent con- stitutional derangement. Secondly, the clothes of babies and little children should never restrict them. All strings and buttons should be loose ; bodies, waists, and arm-holes roomy. There must be no compressing ligatures anywhere. Boots, such as we often see adopted for babies, are unfit for them. The shoemaker produces a narrow case that cramps up the little creature’s toes,'and deforms them ; it is tightly laced up the middle, and ciUelly confines the ankle, that actually all that is needed. As soon as it begins to get about on its feet let it have little shoes—very small pieces of silk, merino, or llama will make a baby’s quilted shoes. Place a piece of thin flannel next the silk, and line with cambric muslin ; tack all together, and quilt it. Any shoemaker will cut the mother a pattern for its shoe, and also a pair of cork or thin soft leather soles for them. It is easy, and takes little time to make such a pair of shoes. They must be bound with ribbon round the top and straps ; have buttons on the straps, and rosettes on the toes. Many ladies make such shoes for fancy bazaars. When the child is carried out, a little pair of woollen gaiters, with soles, must be drawn over the shoes and up the legs. When the baby begins to walk out of doors, let it have easy black kid shoes with straps; these may be followed by very loose cashmerq, Fig 54- CAB —i— c 1 j c j i c i 1 : A Fig- 5S- 12—N.S.