HINTS ON CARVING. 8o uncommon dish, but it is noteworthy that it is far more economical if carved in the manner we are about to de-- scribe, than any other way. Commence by making long slices from end to end of the cheek, cutting quite through, so as to feel the bone throughout the entire stroke, ac- cording to the dotted lines from A to B in Fig. ii. With each of these slices serve a cut of what is called the throat sweet-bread, which lies at the fleshy part of the neck end. Cut also slices at D, which are gelatinous and delicate, and serve small pieces with the meat; this greatly economises the joint. A little of the tongue is usually placed on each plate, and about a spoonful of the brains. The tongue is served on a separate dish, surrounded by the brains, and is cut across, the narrow way, in rather thin slices. Some persons like the eye. It is removed by a circular cut, marked by dots at E. First put the knife in slanting at F, inserting the point at that part of the dotted line, and more than does that from a leg on the skill of the carver, and it is also a joint which may be made to go much further by skilful cutting. Commence by thrusting in the fork at G in Fig. 12, firmly. Raise and half turn the shoulder over and upwards, holding it in this position by means of the fork; slash lightly in with the knife at A, but do not cut quite down to the bone; the meat now flies open, leaving a gap, as if a thick slice had been removed. Cut a few slices thickly at the lines marked B, and then at the knuckle side at those marked H, making both slope so as to meet at D. Those to be helped to meat should always be asked whether they prefer the knuckle end or the thick end. The cut on the blade-bone, marked c in Fig. 12, is usually reserved till the joint is cold, and so is that at E. The circular cut F removes the fat, a slice of which should be proffered with each piece of lean. Very many people think the most delicate cuts are to be found underneath driving it in to the centre under the eye ; then wheel the hand round, keeping the circle of the dotted line with the blade of the knife, the point still in the centre. The eye will come out entire, cone-shaped at the under part, when the circle is completed by the knife. There are some gelatinous pieces round the eye, which are generally con- sidered very desirable. The lower jaw must next be removed by cutting through at the dotted line from G to H, to do which successfully the dish must be turned. Many persons consider the palate a dainty, and it should always be offered at table to the guests or members of the family. It is found under the head, of course, lining that part which forms the roof of the mouth. For the proper appearance of a calves’ head when brought to table, refer- ence must be made to Fig. 4 in the coloured plate. Shoulder of Mutton, though costing less per pound, is not reckoned by some managers to be so economical a joint as a leg. Still, there are many persons who hold a contrary opinion, and a shoulder of mutton is a very frequent joint on a family dinner-table. The palatable- ness of the meat served from a shoulder depends much the joint, which parts are represented in Fig. 13. The cut at J is a thin slice of brown meat, followed by other slices cut in succession. From K to L, long slices can be removed, by cutting through to the bone. The long lines at N, and the short ones at M, indicate the situation of similar cuts. Taste varies so much in regard to which are the nicest cuts on a shoulder of mutton, that indi- viduals should always be consulted before helping. Every part of a shoulder of mutton, except the first cuts, should be carved in thin slices, and even those are not made so thick as they are in a leg. The blade-bone is, in our opinion, the choicest cut of all (that marked C in Fig. 12.), and may be eaten hot, if the remainder of the shoulder is hashed, instead of bringing it to table cold; it is the better way to hash it, for the meat is insipid cold. A shoulder of lamb is treated similarly; so is a shoulder of veal, which is sent to table with the under part turned to the carver, who commences by serving the knuckle, and then cuts as the under part of a shoulder of mutton is cut, afterwards turn- ing the joint and carving the upper part, according to Fig. 12.