94 THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC. Gauges.—Fig. lo, page 23, shows a common marking- gauge, in which the rod A slides backwards and forwards m the block B, but capable of being fixed at any required place by the screw E; near one end is a hole through which the steel point D is driven. In using this tool the right end is grasped by the right hand, the thumb and forefinger of which take hold round the block. In gaug- ing a piece of wood, one edge, previously planed, is used as a guide, the left of the block being kept close up to it, the point of course marking a line parallel to the edge of rhe wood at any required distance from it. In cutting thin parallel laths, a knife is used instead of the point D ; c Fig. II. this is called a cutting-gauge. Fig. 11 shows a mortice- gauge, which is used for marking two parallel lines at once, as in marking mortices and tenons. The point A is driven through in the same manner as in the common gauge, but a second point, B, is fixed on the piece of brass sliding in a groove in the rod, which slide is moved by the screw C. The screw C works in a box or nut shown by the dotted lines at D. The method of using is the same as with common gauges. The rod is fixed by the screw E. Ha7nmcrs and Mallets.—It would seem almost absurd to trouble our readers with a description of tools so uni- versally known, but as no tool-chest would be complete in their absence, we should not feel altogether justified in passing them over. Fig. 12 shows the head of an ordinary claw-hammer, the claw of which is useful in taking out nails wrongly driven, &c. Fig. 13 shows the head of a tang hammer, the tang being convenient for slight blows Fig. 15. on nails. Just for fixing them in a position to be driven in. Fig. 14 is a smith’s chipping-hammer, the weight of which is nearly all in the lower end, the tang being usually rounded. Of mallets we need say nothing, except to recommend the square-headed ones for morticing and carpenters’ work, and the cylindrical ones for more domestic purposes, such as tapping beer-barrels, &c. Pijicei's and Pliers.—Fig. 15 is a diagram of a pair of ordinary pincers, which are contrivances for obtaining a firm grasp on small objects, such as nails or pieces of wire, &c. Common pliers. Fig. 16, are used for the same purposes as pincers, but being smaller, do not grasp quite so firmly ; and Fig. 17, a pair of cutting-pliers, used for severing small wires. The cutting edges are sometimes on the side, and sometimes on the top edges of the tool. In the former case the ends are prolonged into regular pinching surfaces, thereby serving the twofold purpose of cutting and holding. Planes.—Fig. 18 is a section showing the construction and arrangement of an ordinary plane. The body, A, is of wood, usually beech, the bottom of which is called the sole. The line B, on which the iron rests, is the bed, and for carpenters’ planes is mostly inclined at an angle of forty-five degrees. The iron is kept firmly fastened down to the bed by the wedge C, which fits into grooves on each side of the mouth D. The angle of the wedge is about ten degrees, and it is cut away in the middle so as to leave room for the screw which holds the two irons together. The plane is pushed forward by the handle E, which is let into the top. Fig. 19 shows the arrangement of the double iron found in most planes. A is the bottom iron, which is the cutting part, and B is the top iron or break, as it is termed, which is intended to throw off the shavings from the cutting edge. It is set with its edge about one- Fig. 19. A twentieth of an inch from the edge of the cutting-iron, to which it is held by the screw c. The adjustment is allowed by the long slot in the bottom iron in which the screw slides. The top iron is curved in the direction of its length, in order to keep its edge in more complete contact with the lower iron, and so to allow no shavings to pass between. In setting a plane the two irons are screwed together, and placed on the bed with the wedge lightly pressed in its place; the edge will then be felt underneath by the hand, and can be adjusted. Should it be too far out, a tap with a hammer on the fore-part of the plane will bring it up, or should it not project enough a slight blow on the top of the iron will be necessary; when in its place a sharp blow on the top of the wedge will fix it there. The diagram. Fig. 18, shows about the proportion of a jack- plane, the length of which is from fourteen to sixteen inches. The smoothing-plane is smaller, about seven or eight inches. The trying-plane is much longer, about twenty inches, the greater length giving greater accuracy in the surface to be operated on. _The order of using is generally jack, trying, and smoothing. Plane-irons are sharpened in the same way as directed for chisels, but from the greater width of the blade, three inches, the operation is more difficult.