162 THE HOUSE. that is a sure indication of ill-health, and if he does not speedily die a natural death, the more lively crabs will make a meal of his unprotected extremity. If you have a group of serpulte, the shell to which they are attached should be placed near the front of the glass, where they can be readily examined. If at any time one of the worms should be seen hanging helplessly out of its tube, take a needle and remove it. If a milky film be seen at the mouth of any of the tubes, its inhabitant is in a state of decomposition. To remove it, under these cir- cumstances, the use of a crochet-needle, which has a hook at the end of it, will be found necessar)c The anemones may be dropped in one by one without regard to arrangement, for they will invariably choose some other resting-place than the spot they are wanted to occupy. There is no occasion for any anxiety as to their health, for they seem competent to resist the most adverse influences, and to exist under almost any conditions. The writer has never experienced any difficulty in keeping smooth anemones ; some have lived for years without change of water, and many a brood of juveniles has dotted the rockwork of his aquaria. Sir John Dalyell kept one of these for twenty years, and in that time it produced up- wards of three hundred young. The anemones require feeding about once a week. Before supplying anemones with food, take a pointed splint, stick a shred of oyster or mussel on the end, and place the food so as just to touch one of the tentacles of the animal ; it will at once seize the proffered morsel and convey it into its mouth, at the same time drawing in its tentacles. These tentacles possess adhesive properties which enable the creature to catch animalcules that come in its way; and though the hairs that give it this power are too fine to be seen with- out the aid of a microscope, their effect may be felt by placing the finger against them when the tentacles are expanded. Anemones will remain alive without being fed, but they then generally decrease in size, and display their feelers less frequently. If you do not at the same time feed the crabs, they will walk round the aquarium, put their claws into the mouths of the anemones, and steal their food before it has had time to get beyond their reach. After a meal, the anemones eject the indigestible matter, which should be removed with a camel-hair pencil. They also occasionally exude a film, which covers the whole body, and gives it a dull appearance ; this also should be removed by the same means. The remaining specimens may now be introduced in any order ; the fish, however, last. When once furnished, the marine aquarium should not require any change of water, although it is as well to have a supply in reserve. A mark should be made on the glass where the water reaches, and when evaporation causes the water-level to descend below the mark, fresh rain-water should be poured in to make up the deficiency. In course of time, the length of which will depend upon the amount of light admitted, a green film of minute vegetation will cover the sides of the glass. This should be wiped gently off the front by means of a small sponge tied to a stick, care being taken not to disseminate it through the water. That at the back and sides may be allowed to remain, as it is of value both in purifying the water and moderating the light. The foregoing instructions will enable any person to furnish a marine aquarium at a small cost, and to main- tain it with little trouble. Care must, however, be t.aken that the necessary operations are not performed hurriedly, and that everything is cleansed before being placed in the vessel. After the furnishing is complete, it will scarcely require more attention than a fern-case, while it will afford a source of constant amusement to those who are interested in watching the movements and studying the habits of the animal kingdom, to say nothing of the wide field it displays for the use of the microscope. THE HOUSE.—I. WATER SUPPLV. The importance of a regular and sufficient supply of pure and wholesome water in every house, has been abundantly acknowledged by all intelligent people, has been proved by experience, and insisted upon by scientific men. Water enters into the composition of all our food, it is the chief ingredient in all our drinks, and it is largely present in the air we breathe. Its absence for a short time only would be followed by the extinction of our very life. In the present article we shall confine our remarks chiefly to the different qualities of water, and the modes of treatin£ it in given circumstances. The supply of water should be constant, as it contracts impurities when stored; and water may be contaminated readily by any effluvia arising from the sink during the night, when a kitchen has no air admitted. Pure water is not possible with an inter- mittent supply. As to the quality of the water, one must take it as the water companies provide it, and use the best remedy possible for its purification for drink- ing purposes. Dr. Bernays’ remark upon the purity of water is worth observing attentively. He says, “ It is a mistake to suppose that the water supplied by any company is good and wholesome if filtered—water never occurs in nature in a state of purity; and it is equally a mistake to suppose, because water from a well appears pure and is not conveyed through pipes, that it is necessarily fit to drink. Pure water has neither smell nor taste, is colourless in small quantities, but when viewed in a mass is of a more or less blue tint ; poured into a glass, it should be bright, clear, and crystal, and sparkle with the gases it contains.” The same authority recommends the use of filtered rain-water for cooking and household purposes, the impurities of this water being removable by filtration, while the animal and vegetable matter which it still contains, in spite of this filtration, can be rendered harmless by boiling the water. As a safeguard against all impurities in water—lead excepted, the presence of which is detected by a sweet, mawkish taste—the water should be boiled in a kettle, allowed to rest, then carefully drawn off from the sediment into a jug or pitcher, and aerated by being poured three or four times at a slight elevation from one jug into another. It is of the most vital importance to health to ascertain the quality of the well-water if the house depends upon that for its supply. Be certain that it does not contain salts of lime in excess, which render the water hard and unwholesome, nor soluble animal matter, either of which may be largely present, and yet the water be excessively brilliant. If the water but slightly curdles soap, it is good, but if the lather separates into flakes, the water is injurious to health if drunk without first precipitating •—in the form of rock or fur in kettles—the lime salts which it contains, and which, when drunk, are by the heat of the stomach deposited instead of being taken into the system. Soft water is a solvent of food; hard water, on the contrary, in which there is an excessive proportion of salts of lime, occasions indigestion, though that is a minor evil when compai-ed with the mischief it brings about in other ways. Rain-water is, next to distilled and boiled water, the best for cooking or drinking, because it very readily dissolves food in the stomach. If it be filtered, it is then as bright as any other water. Science asserts that pure water is not at all requisite for maintaining health, only it must have no putrefactive matter in it to induce disease. It is said that even the presence of certain animalculae in the water does not injure the system, excepting when they are dead and putrid. If it be true—and there is no reason to doubt it—it is a provi- dential arrangement, for millions must take their drink from ponds and rivers in which animalculae abound.