44 GARDENING. We have said that anything capable of containing soil and affording an outlet to moisture will do for flowers to grow in. Ordinary flower-pots are most frequently used, but they are not desirable when economy of space is an object. The great advantage of pots is the facility - which they afford for changing the plants from time to time. Zinc boxes are often preferable to clay pots, and they can be had at a very trifling cost, or made at home without much trouble. The bottom must be per- forated, and the box either raised upon small feet of wood or iron, or set upon bricks. ■'A wooden outside case is a very great advantage—it ought to be a trifle larger than the zinc one—the intervening space being filled with moss, or straw, or dried leaves. The object to be gained by this is one every window-gardener must attend to—namely, to prevent the rays of the sun over-heating the earth in which the roots of his plants are lying. Very pretty and ornamental cases are made by planting common ivy between the zinc and wood, and letting it trail over the sides, or upon a little trellis-work, which is easily made by bending and interlacing willow wands, such as basket-makers use, sticking the ends into the earth. I once saw a box of this sort with a very picturesque device. Four wands were fastened at the corners, from which four more met in the centre ; round these a small-leaved clematis was trained, and kept so close that it did not interfere with the passage of air or light to the other flowers. The pots or cases having thus been secured, the next thing to do before filling-in the earth will be to attend to the drainage. Be very particular never to let your plants stand in water. Some few plants, it is true—hydrangeas, for example — like to have their roots kept constantly moist, but, as a rule, plants, like men, are better with their feet dry. The best way to set about the drainage is to cover the hole at the bottom of the pots with a piece of a broken pot, so placed as to afford a free passage for the water; over this spread moss or straw, to prevent the earth running down and choking up the drainage. If a case is used, set to work in the same way, only lay the broken pieces a little thicker, and let the moss be also thicker, and well pressed down. A very good drainage may be easily obtained by filling the bottom of the box or pot with a layer of common coal cinders, about an inch in thick- ness. The next thing is to get soil—not always an easy matter in a crowded town, and often entailing many a long wajk. In London it is very difficult indeed to get soil, if there is no ground adjoining the dwelling which can be laid under contribution. It will often prove the best economy to procure some from a gardener, which will have the advantage of being specially prepared for the growth of flowers ; and the expense of getting such a small quantity as would be required for a window-garden would be very trifling indeed. At any large market where flower roots are sold, the gardeners are glad to part with any of the refuse soil they have brought there round the roots of the plants for a very trifling cost. For a penny or two the amateur window gardener wiilget enough soil to fill at least Fig. I. two good-sized flower boxes. When people can get out into the country, they will have little difficulty in obtaining leave to gather the earth that they want from the little hillocks of road-scrapings piled at the side of the road, which are full of valuable manure, choosing' always those parts where the grass is stiff and sharp. For some plants— namely, those of the fine hair-rooted sorts, such as heaths, &c.—-a more fibrous earth, mixed with flints and sands, will be re- quired. This can always be obtained where heath grows. When you have time, and really mean to excel in your flowers, it is an excellent plan to carry home a few sods of the wiry grass we mentioned, and having charred the grass at the fire, lay the sods away in any dark dry corner for a month or two, when it will be ready to powder down with the hand. In some cases it is a good thing to mix sand with it. All soils, however, do not require an extra quantity of sand, and you can determine as to this in a very simple way. Take a little soil in your hand, and work it into a pulp. If it feels gritty, you will require very little sand, perhaps none at all ; if it gets simply soft and smooth, add sand accordingly. The manure you inix with the soil must be perfectly rotten, and in a crumbling state. You must use your own judgment, when it is thoroughly mixed with the soil, as to adding sufficient moisture. It is a mis- take to use too fine soil, as it is apt to run together and cake; therefore take rough soil in proportion to the size of your pots. In transplanting or repotting you must be careful to damp the earth and roots thoroughly, then spread the fingers over the surface, reverse the plant, and tap the pot smartly, the contents will come out unbroken; separate the outer roots a little at the outside, place the plant in the pot, and crumble in the fresh earth round the ball of roots. If the earth is lumpy, and the roots scanty, wash the roots free from soil, keeping them in your hands and manipulating very quietly, for fear of breaking the fibres; then, replacing the plant in the pot, throw in the fresh earth, packing carefully, but lightly, when rapid growth is the object. This last should always be observed; but if you want to stimulate flower bulbs, pack the earth firmly. After trans- planting, water equally with a rose, or if you have not such a con- venience, take any flat thing—a lid or a piece of wood—and by holding it over the plant, a gentle stream of water falls upon the surface, which will thus be diffused over the foliage as well as the soil. For raising seedlings, warmth, air, and comparative darkness are essen- tial. Warmth must range at 45° or 2 50° to germinate the seed, after which 60° is quite as much as the young plants will bear. Moisture is essential, but should be equal, and never excessive. Comparative darkness is desirable, as the seed will sooner germinate, and throw forth its shoot, than when kept in a hardened condition by the influence of a hot sun. Care must, however, be taken to accustom the plants gradually to the light, and that as soon as they begin to show above the surrace. The great secret in raising seedlings is never to allow them to get a check. It is more difficult to raise seeds in pots than in the