318 DOMESTIC MEDICINE. on the inside, and then be carefully lined with a thick coating of clean, well-melted pitch. An unpleasant taste will be communicated to the water for a short time, but this is greatly decreased by the use of a good-sized cabbage-net full of charcoal. This should have a stone placed in it, in order to make it sink. Fasten a string to its top ; let it hang at about the centre of the cask ; lay a stick across the top of the barrel, and fasten your string to its middle ; your charcoal-net will thus be suspended just at mid-water, where it should remain until all taste and smell of pitch has passed away. No portion of the water-supply arrangements of our cities and towns is so generally—we might even say, almost universally—defective and wasteful as that con- structed to regulate the flow of water through closets ; and it is because the majority of mechanical arrange- ments made use of for this purpose are more or less inefficient that householders are compelled, in self- defence, to fasten up the flush-plug, and allow a large quantity of water to be expended, when, by proper me- chanical adjustment, enough water to meet sanitary re- quirements is suffered to run, whilst wasteful expenditure is entirely prevented. A modiffcation of the improved water-valve and cup- float, described in our last paper, has been lately ap- plied to this purpose by a very well-known provincial Arm. This plan is as follows :—A reference to the annexed illustration will show at a glance the manner in which the whole arrangement is carried out. Unlike the majority of contrivances constructed for flushing pur- poses, the new “ Economiser,” as it is called, governs expenditure and influx at the same time, by a system of both floating and sinking power. The cistern to which it is attached is constructed in compartments, so that the time (a minute or thereabouts) which is occupied in re- storing the balance of the contrivance, after pull on the lever-chain, M, is made, must pass before the flushing ceases. The bulk of the stream thus poured down being regulated by the size of the orifice X is amply sufficient to clear all the pipes and tubes thoroughly without allowing the least waste to take place. A reference to the annexed Illustration and the letters used to indicate the particular parts of the arrangement, will at once serve to explain the mode of construction and operation of this simple and useful arrangement :—A Is a cast-iron cistern, divided into two compartments ; B the flushing compartment; C the supply; the whole being about 16 inches long, 10 inches wide, and 12 inches deep. In compartment c the “Economiser” valve D and cylinder E are fixed ; while in compartment B a flushing-valve, F, through which an air-tube, G, passes, is fixed. From this joint a connection is made with the closet. H is a valve fixed to the partition, and com- municates with the flushing compartment B. Each valve is acted upon by means of the weighted lever K K. By drawing down this lever at M, the valve F is raised and the valve H closed. The water in compartment B, passing through the aperture X, flushes the closet. On releasing the lever, the opposite action takes place—the valve F closes and the valve H opens, admitting the reserve supply contained in compartment C into the flushing compartment B, while the “ Economiser,” left to its own free and certain action, supplies the deficiency to the reserve. By this arrangement it is evident that the lever cannot be fixed in such a position as to cause a constant flow of water down the flush-pipe into the closet; before the flush-valve is opened, the valve H is closed, and the supply from the reserve cut off. To obtain a second flushing, the cistern must be allowed to fill in the ordinar)^ manner. Our next paper will treat of the supply of cisterns, &c., so situated as not to be replenished from accumulations of water stored up by public companies and carried through underground tubes and pipes. DOMESTIC MEDICINE.—IX. APOPLEXY. The word is derived from two Greek words—Airb, by means of; ttAtjo-o-oj, to strike—because those attacked often fall down as if from a blow. Syjnptoms.—ThQ ordinary features of the disease are a sudden loss of consciousness, unattended with any con- vulsion ; the breathing is laboured and heavy, and the face generally flushed. The patient falls suddenly down. The loss of consciousness may not be quite complete ; and in this case speech may be lost or only impaired. One side will be more or less paralysed. There are many variations in the way in which the attack comes on. For example, the patient may at first look pale, and the loss of consciousness may be gradual, and not sudden. In • this case there is apt to be vomiting. Again, there may be some amount of convulsion, or working of the arm or leg of one side. The important thing for people to know is the differ- ence between apoplexy and drunkenness, and between apoplexy and faintness. It is common in the streets and in police-stations to treat a man with apoplexy as if he were “ only drunk.” And in a. country where, alas! men are too often seen deeply drunk in the streets, it is not so remarkable that this mistake should be made. It is not always easy to distinguish between drunkenness and apoplexy. Drinking tends to produce apoplexy, and then a man may be both drunk and the subject of apoplexy. The guiding points are the smell of drink and the account of persons who know the patient, and the fact that drunken persons are not generally so profoundly asleep as not to allow of being roused. Between apoplexy and faintness the points of distinction are principally these. A faint person is pale ; the breathing is quiet, not noisy, as in apoplexy; the pulse can scarcely be felt at the wrist, whereas in apoplexy it is apt to be full. Apoplexy occurs for the most part in elderly persons, and in men ; faintness in younger persons, especially women, and when in close places. Causes of Apoplexy.—The occurrence of apoplexy in a person generally shows that there is something wrong in the walls of the blood-vessels of the head. They have lost their healthy elasticity—become too soft or too hard—and given way instead of expanding when a little extra pres- sure was put upon them. It is not so much that people have short necks or long ones as that they have unsound blood-vessels. This is worth everybody’s knowing ; for while people cannot alter the length of their necks, they can—so great is the control of people over their health— do a good deal to keep their blood-vessels sound or to spoil their blood-vessels. Let us give, then, a few hints to people who fear apoplexy; whose father or mother per- haps have had it; or who have lived hard, and have some warnings of it, such as dizziness, slight loss of memory, slight paralytic attacks, and the like. Let nobody think that there is any reason why he should die of apoplexy because his father did. Doubtless it is sometimes here- ditary; but a great deal can be done to prevent the development of hereditary diseases. The points to be aimed at to prevent apoplexy are a regular life, free from all excess or intemperance. Excess in eating or drink- ing is very bad for persons with any tendency to apo- plexy. Anything which loads Lhe blood with alcohol or strong animal food tends to produce that condition of the blood-vessels which leads to apoplexy. So, persons with this tendency should drink very little, and claret, or, at most, very weak sherry and water should be their stimulant; and teetotalism, if they are not weak or very much jaded, should be tried. An occasional dinner of fish or fowl will be beneficial. Suppers should be light. Sleep should be regularly taken, and neither too much nor too little. Probably of the two extremes the more