90 HOUSEHOLD LAW. work between; one row over the first flounce, and two over the second. The flounces may be worked, or of plain fine muslin edged with work or lace. Fig. 13 is a design for a body to wear with this skirt. The braces match the flounces. The stomacher is embroidered; and bows tie the shoulders. A few words on the art of embroidering cashmere, French merino, or flannel, will doubtless be found most useful to many young mothers. I have spoken of tracing the scallops for the edges with a red chalk-pencil; this, however, is only suited to an unskilled worker. There are two methods of tracing—pouncing, and the use of car- bonised paper. The last is the easiest way; but care must be taken, as the black of the paper may soil the material. It should be well rubbed with bread before use, and the effect tried on something first. Draw the design on paper ; between it and the material to be worked place the black tracing-paper, carefully pinning them in position together; then, with a knitting-needle or very hard lead-pencil, follow out the design, as if sketching it afresh, line by line. Carbonised tracing- paper can be obtained in sheets of any stationer who keeps drawing materials ; and, if preferred, blue, red, green, or white tracing-paper can be substituted for the black. Patterns used for open-work embroidery can be adapted as borders, and worked in satin-stitch, the edges being button-holed. Floss, or ordinary embroidery silk is used for cashmere, but wool, or what is called linen- floss, is better for flannel than silk, which sometimes turns yellow when washed. HOUSEHOLD LAW.—HI. THE LAW OF WILL-MAKING. What is a Will?—A will or testament is the legal expres- sion of a man’s wishes in respect of matters that he desires to have attended to after his death. If the dispositions to be made by a will are very complicated or numerous, the wisest plan is to have the will drawn by a lawyer, whose charges it is far better to incur than to run the chance of the will being disputed or set aside after the testatoFs death. But in cases of simple bequest, whether of land or movable goods, and even in difficult cases if the testator is quite sure he can express his meaning simply and clearly, there is not any need for the intervention of a lawyer. Sudden necessity, remoteness from professional help, desire to keep within one’s bi'east the particulars as to pro- perty and to bequests—these and other causes might render it desirable that one should know how to make a will for oneself. How to Make a Will.—There is not any prescrilDed form in which a will must necessarily be made, and when an unprofessional person is going to make a will he must carefully get rid of the idea that any form is possible. Let him write his wishes down as simply and easily as if he were writing a note, avoiding the use of all technical ex- pressions, and aiming only at making himself intelligible. Many persons have frustrated their own intentions by in- troducing into wills made by themselves technical terms of the exact meaning of which they were ignorant, and which had to be construed according to the technical sig- niflcation. Formerly it was of the highest importance that wills should be so worded that no other meaning than that intended should by any possibility be placed upon them. Then it was almost indispensable that the services of a lawyer sLould be retained. Now, however, a will is construed according to the evident intention of the testator, however badly he may have expressed him- self, so that the simpler the wording of the document the better. The whole law of walls was remodelled on this principle in the first year of the reign of her present Majesty. The only conditions imposed upon testators are conditions which are meant solely to guard them against the mischief of fraud, and to prevent their being subjected to undue influence in the making of wills. They are :— 1. The testator must be of sound mind, and not less than twenty-one years of age. 2. His wall must be written, the only exceptions to this rule being soldiers and sailors, who may, in conside- ration of the service in which they are engaged, make verbal assignments of their property. 3. The will must be properly executed. Who may Make a Will.—Any man or unmarried woman of sound mind, and of the age of twenty-one years and upwards, may make a wall. Ordinarily, married women cannot make wills, because they have not anything to bequeath, their property, by a rule of law, becoming the property of the husband on marriage. But a married woman may, if of full age, make a will bequeathing pro- perty settled upon her for her separate use and benefit, or over w’hich she has a general power of appointment, or of goods vested in her as executrix. She may also make a will if her husband is banished for life, or has obtained a protecting order, or had a judicial separation under the Divorce Act. By the Married Woman’s Property Act, 1870, the earnings of a married woman, her deposits in savings banks, stock, shares, and interests in friendly societies, &c., are her separate property, and consequently can be left by her by will. Execution of a Will.—The testator’s signature must be placed at the foot or end of the will; and should the will be contained in more than one sheet, each of such sheets should be signed by the testator, and the signature attested by the witnesses. The signature will not give effect to any bequests underneath or following it, or inserted after the signature is made. Any one capable of understanding what he is about, and able to write his name, may witness the signature of a testator; but it must be remembered that a witness cannot receive any befiefit tinder the will. Should a bequest have been made to him it is taken away by the mere fact of his being a witness, and the portion he would have taken goes to the residuary legatee. If, therefore, it be intended to give anything, let it not be to him who is to witness the signature. An executor or trustee may be a witness, subject to the above rule about bequests. There must be two witnesses. They must both, and at the same time, see the testator sign the will; and they must sign a memorandum to that effect in the presence of the testator and of each other. There is not any precise clause of attestation, but the following form contains all the essential conditions:—“ Signed by the testator, John Hopkins, as and for his last will, in the presence of us present at the same time, who in his pre- sence at his request and in the presence of each other have hereunto subscribed our names as witnesses.” Should any alteration have been made in the will prior to its execution, upon which any doubt might subse- quently arise as to whether it had been made before or after execution, the fact of such alteration should be set out in the attestation clause thus :—“ Signed by the testator, John Hopkins, as and for his last will and testament, the alteration in line 9, page 3, having been previously made in the presence of us,” d:c. Unwritten Wills.—The only persons who are allowed to make wills orally are soldiers actually engaged on some expedition, or sailors actually at sea. To them it is per- mitted to make wills orally in consideration of their being, by the nature of their calling, constantly in the face of death, which may surprise them at any moment. So far as sailors, however, are concerned, there is a rule of the Admiralty that any will disposjng of pay, prize-money, or anything else which would liave to pass through the Admiralty Office, shall be reduced to writing, either by the testator, or some one writing at his request.