95 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. POULTRY.—III. INCUBATION OF POULTRY. Much disappointment in the hatching and rearing of young broods would be prevented if more care were taken that the eggs selected for setting were of good quality—not only likely to be fertile, but the produce of strong and hardy birds. This remark applies to common barn-door poultry quite as much as to the pure breeds. A friend once complained to us, that out of a dozen eggs only four or five had hatched ; and on inquiiy, we found that the sitting had been procured from an inn-yard, where, to our knowledge, only one cock was running with about twenty hens, from which, of course, no better result could be expected. When the eggs have to be procured from elsewhere, therefore, whatever be the class of fowls re- quired, it should first of all be ascertained that there is at least one cock to every six or eight hens, and that he be a strong and lively bird ; and next, that the fowls be not only of the kind desired, but that they are well fed and taken care of. From scraggy, half-starved birds, it is impossible to rear a large brood, as the greater number even of those hatched will die in infancy. It only remains to ensure that the eggs be fresh, and a successful hatching may be anticipated. With regard to this latter point, eggs have been known to hatch when two months old, or even more ; but we would never ourselves set, from choice, any egg which had been laid more than a fortnight; and after a month, or less, it is useless trouble. Fresh eggs, if all be well, hatch out in good time, and the chicks are strong and lively ; the stale ones always hatch last, being, perhaps, as much as two days later than new-laid, and the chickens are often too weak to break the shell. We have also invariably noticed, when compelled to take a portion of stale eggs to make up a sitting, that even when such eggs have hatched, the subsequent deaths have principally oc- curred in this portion of the brood; and that if none of the eggs were more than four or five days old, they not only hatched nearly every one, and within an hour or two of each other, but the losses in any ordinary season were very few. When the eggs are from the home stock, their quality should, of course, be above suspicion. It is scarcely necessary to say, that in order to ensure this, every egg before storing should have legibly written upon it in pencil the date on which it was laid. Eggs intended for setting are best kept in bran, the large end downward, and should never be exposed to concussion. Another very good plan is to have a large board pierced with a number of round holes in regular rows to receive the eggs. Hundreds of years ago it was thought that the sex of eggs could be distinguished by the shape — the cocks being produced from those of elongated shape, and hens from the short or round. Others have pretended to dis- cern the future sex from the position of the air-bubble at the large end. We need scarcely say, that these and all other fancies have, hundreds of times, been proved to be erroneous. There is not a breeder of prize poultry in England who would not gladly give twenty pounds for the coveted knowledge, and thenceforth breed no more cockerels than he really wanted ; but the secret has never been discovered yet, and it is even impossible to tell before the egg has been sat upon a short time whether it will produce a chicken or not. We have already mentioned that the sitting hens ought to have a separate shed and run provided for them, in order that the other hens may not occupy their nests during absence, or they themselves go back to the wrong ones, as they will often do if allowed to sit in the fowl-house. Even in a very small domestic establishment we strongly recommend that the small additional space requisite be devoted to this purpose, for all our experience has proved that, whatever success may be obtained otherwise by constant care and watchfulness, it is never so great as when the sitter can be shut into a separate run, and be entirely unmolested. An extensive run is neither necessary nor desirable, as it only entices the birds to wander, whereas, in a limited space, they will go back to their nests as soon as their wants are satisfied. A shed five feet square, with a run the same width for ten feet out in front, is quite sufficient for three hens. If the hen must be set on the ordinary nest in the fowl- house, unless she can be watched every day to see that all goes right, it is best to take her off at a regular time every morning, and after seeing to her wants and due return, to shut her in so that she cannot be annoyed. She should be lifted by taking hold under the wings, gently raising them first to see that no eggs are enclosed. Very fair success may be attained by this method of manage- ment, which is obviously almost imperative in very large establishments, where numerous hens must be sitting at one time ; but where such large numbers do not allow of a special poultry attendant it is rather troublesome, and on an average there will be a chicken or two less than if the hens can be put quite apart, where they need neither be watched nor interfered with. Since we adopted this plan we have, from good eggs, always hatched at least nine out of twelve, and generally more ; and have had no trouble or anxiety till the broods were actually hatched, which is anything but the case on the other system. With respect to the arrangement of the hatching run, it should, if possible, be in sight of the other fowls, as it will keep the sitter from becoming strange to her com- panions, and prevent an otherwise inevitable fight on her restoration, to the possible damage of the brood. We prefer ourselves, as stated in the first chapter, a shed five feet wide and five deep, open in front to a small gravel or grass run. Under the shed must be, besides the nests, a good-sized shallow box of sand, dry earth, or fine coal ashes, for the hen to cleanse herself in, which she specially needs at this time; and food and water must be always ready for her. With these precautions the hen may, and should, in every case, with the exceptions presently men- tioned, be left entirely to herself. There are, however, some birds which, if not removed, would stance upon their nests sooner than leave them; and,, therefore, if the hen has not been off for two or three days (we would test her for that time first), we should certainly remove the poor thing for her own preservation. To feed upon the nest is a cruel practice, which has crippled many a fowl for life, and cannot be too strongly condemned. Of all mothers we prefer Cochins or Brahmas. Their abundant “fluff” and feathering is of inestimable advantage to the young chicks, and theff tame and gentle disposition makes them submit to any amount of handling or manage- ment with great docility. Cochins certainly appear clumsy with their feet, but we have never found more chickens actually trodden upon by them than with any other breed. Many complain that they leave their chickens too soon, but we have not found it so ourselves. If they are kept cooped instead of being set at liberty, they will generally brood their chickens for two months, even till they have laid a second batch of eggs, and desire to sit again ; and by that time any but very early broods are able to do without a mother’s care. With regard to Brahmas as mothers, they have a peculiarity we never observed in any other fowl—they appear actually to look behind them when moving, lest they should tread upon their little ones. Dorkings, also, are exemplary mothers, and go with their chickens a long time, which recommends them strongly for very early broods. And lastly, a Game hen has qualities which often make her most valuable. She is not only exemplary in her care, and a super-excellent forager for her young brood, but will defend them to the last gasp, and render a good account of the most determined cat