63 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. proper use of the bath in those who do not take much exercise and who are not very strong. In other cases the skin generally perspires properly, but some one part is harsh and dry, such as the face or hands. Washing the face with strong soap will make it rough and uncomfort- able, and so will exposure to cold winds. The remedies here are simple—the avoidance of all irritants, tepid bathing, and anointing the face with glycerine and water— or, what is often better, painting it over with a little whiting paste at night for several times. There is just one remark worth making here, and it is this : Glycerine should generally be used to the skin diluted. It has much affinity for water, and if the skin be very dry and harsh, pure glycerine may, by rapidly uniting with the water of the tissue, occasionally do harm. The remark just made will apply to the skin when rough. It is the localised forms of dryness and roughness that trouble persons, and, as before observed, these are often the result either of the too free use of soap or the action of irritants. Moist Skin.—This is one of the most unpleasant dis- orders to which the skin is subject, and it is a source of very great annoyance to most persons. In some cases the whole skin is affected, being cold and clammy. In children it is a sign—especially if the perspiration occur particularly about the head, soaking the pillow through and through at night—of deficient nutrition, and of a tendency to or actual rickets. No mother should make light of it, but consult a doctor when it occurs. The use of all that is bracing, plenty of fresh air, of good milk, and steel wine, will do wonders in these cases. In young persons and in adults, moist skins imply a very weak constitution, or some special kind of debility, and need the physician’s care. We shall refer here particularly to those cases only which are partial—such as uncomfortable moisture of the hands or feet or arm- pits. Every one knows what a cold clammy hand is. It may be a constitutional peculiarity, and it is not at all unfrequently seen in persons of a lymphatic, lethargic temperament. Here it is very troublesome in warm weather. It is possible in many cases to find out nervous debility, unfair treatment of the stomach, an inactive skin as a whole from neglect, or some cause of weakness. Locally much may be done. Bathing the hands or feet in very hot water twice a day, the use of a solution of alum and salt (two or three teaspoonfuls of these to a pint of water), putting on prepared chalk made into a paste, sponging with a lotion made of strong ammonia solution (one part to four or five of water), may be tried without fear and with success. But in other cases the perspi- ration is offensive, especially about the feet. In these cases it is often due to uncleanliness. The feet should be washed most sedulously twice a day with warm soap and water, and then bathed with a solution of carbolic acid in water (one part to twenty or thirty). Clean socks must be put on. Oftentimes the perspiration soaks into the boots, and there becomes rancid, and the unpleasant- ness will not be removed until the boots are once and for •Iyer dispensed with. THE AQUARIUM.—II. FRESH WATER VEGETATION. Although the aquarium, as herein treated, may be viewed chiefly as an object for the decoration of a room, its utility as a means of amusement and instruction should not be lost sight of. The development of vegetation, the peculiarities of the class to which the plants belong, the habits of the creatures that may be introduced into the tank, and the microscopic wonders that are invariably generated, are not only a source of endless recreation, but may be turned to excellent account in the educa- tion of a family. The receptacle having been provided, and the bed of the aquarium, prepared according to the instructions previously given, the next operation is to choose the plants and place them in their proper position. The best and most lasting of all aquarium plants is the spiral valisneria. This, however, being a native of southern Europe, is not easily procurable ; but once established in your tank, it will grow luxuriantly. The most prolific of the river weeds is the American water- thyme (Anac/iaris alsinastntm), but this is a plant we do not recommend encouraging. Of its introduction into this country there are several accounts, the most probable being that given by a Cambridge gentleman, who, having received a plant from a friend in Canada, kept it for a time in a glass jar, but not seeing it develop itself into anything interesting or beautiful, ordered it to be thrown away; this was done, and the drain from the house emptying itself into the Cam, carried down the germs of the weed, which soon spread and became a great nuisance, as it nearly filled the river. Those of our readers, there- fore, who introduce this plant into their aquarium should take special care to prevent any opportunities of its being similarly propagated. Another suitable plant is the common frog-bit {Hydro- charis tnorsus-rancB). Its habit of growth differs con- FROG-BIT. CHARA VULGARIS. siderably from either of the above, which is an advan- tage where variety is desirable. Of the other plants suited for our purpose, may be named the arum {Calla palustris), the common stone-wort {Chara vulgaris), the water-soldier {Stratiotes alvides), and the spiked water- milfoil {Myriophyllum spicatum). In the largest-sized tanks small water-lilies may be