328 THE SOURCES OF OUR FOOD SUPPLY. and especially of tea, has become an absolute necessary of life. Coffee is not used to anything like so great an e.xtent as tea; for in i86i the total weight imported was 745,826 cwts., and in 1875 LS89,732 cwts., and of these about 1,207,400 cwts. were exported, so that only about 382,333 cwts. were retained in this country. The value of the coffee imported in 1875 was ;{^7,513,053, and of that ex- ported ;^5,69o,i'i7, so that the value of that retained was only .^1,822,936. We have mentioned the weights and value of the imports and exports, as otherwise those of our readers who see the annual returns might have considered the figures erroneous. Nearly one-half of the quantity came from Ceylon, the re- mainder having been sent from Jamaica, British India, Brazil, Java, Central America, Hayti, and other places. The berries are the fruit of a small shrub, which is a native of Abyssinia, and was introduced into Arabia in the fifteenth century, and subsequently into this country about the middle of the seventeenth. Unlike tea, it is imported raw, and has to be roasted before it is used. During this operation the moisture and other constituents are driven off, and an essential oil produced, which affords the aroma. Coffee contains a large quantity (about twelve per cent.) of a fixed (fatty) oil, on which its property of float- ing for some time in water depends, and by which it can readily be de- tected from chicory. When sold ready ground it is very frequently mixed with chicory, which is much inferior to it as a nervine stimulant. Chicory is the roasted and ground root of the Cichorium intyhcs, and contains an aromatic oil, starch, sugar, and a small quantity of nitro- genous matter. It is never used by itself, but to give fulness and colour to coffee. The value of the chicory imported in 1876 was ^668,046. Cocoa and Chocolate are obtained from several plants. The Mexican cocoa is the seed of the Theobroma cacao, a native of Mexico and the West Indies. The Brazilian cocoa, or Guarana, is procured from the seeds of the Paullmia sorbilis, and another kind of cocoa from the earth-nut {Arachis hypogceci). The beans are contained in a fruit like a water-melon or thick cucumber, and after being removed from the pulp are dried in the sun. That grown in Trinidad forms the bulk imported into England. The beans are prepared for chocolate by being crushed in mills, and mixed with sugar and a little vanilla; but when sold as cocoa they are only roughly broken or shred. They contain a very large quantity of fat (about thirty-five per cent.), so that cocoa is generally prepared by being mixed with sugar and starch. If the drink be made from the nibs, it must be boiled for several hours, and should generally be skimmed ; but a most useful form is that of the “ essence,” which consists of the ground bean from which the fat has been removed. The volatile oil is pro- duced by the roasting in the same way as that of coffee. The value of the cocoa imported in 1875 was ^429,912, and of that exported ;^24o,846, so that the value of that retained was only £ 189,066. This is much to be regretted, as it is far more suitable for breakfast than either tea or coffee, provided some of its fat be removed before it is drunk. FERMENTED DRINKS. Although the ingredient in fermented drinks for which they are chiefly consumed—viz., alcohol—does not exist ready formed in any article of food, yet we could scarcely conclude our series of papers without a reference to beer,, wines, and spirits. The effects on the body of these food adjuncts have not been carefully studied until of late years, when it has been shown by experiment and observation that they are sedatives rather than stimulants, several acting almost from the first as sedatives or depressing agents, and others acting in this way after the primary stimulating effects have gone off. They are of considerable value in depressed conditions of the system, when a person is suffering from overwork or disease, but, except in small quantities, are injurious, es- pecially when taken at short periods instead of with a meal, or after the fatigues of the day are over. The experiments performed ora himself and a friend by the late Dr. Edward Smith show that the most depressing of these are spirits, with the exception of rum, which pro- duces increased action of the heart and of the breathing functions, whilst gin is very depressing after its first transient action on the heart has passed by. Wines are more stimulating than spirits, in conse- quence of the ethers which are formed in the course of time by the action of the natural acids iia the wine on its spirit. Beer, when taken in moderate quantity, is, to a certain extent, a food, as it contains nearly five per cent, of a kind of gummy matter called dextrin, and a small amount (about half per cent.) of sugar and albuminoid matter. The injurious effects of spirits depend partly on a kind of alcohol known as “fusel oil,” which distils over with the alcohol, more especially towards the latter stages of distillation. If kept for some time this so-called oil becomes converted into ethers, and ceases to be specifically injurious, and it then gives the peculiar flavour to spirit such as that possessed by whisky. Beer is made by steeping and boiling malted grain in water, with or without the intermixture of sugar, and by the addition of hops to the wort. Malt is usually obtained from barley or rye by steeping it first in water for about forty-eight hours, and then moving it to what is called “the couch,” where it is kept for twenty hours. It is then taken to the “ floors,” where it remains from ten to fourteen days, according to the rate at which sprouting goes on, and is then finally removed to the drying kiln in order to stop any further growtji. The object of this process is to convert part of the Starch of the grain into a kind of grape-sugar and dextrin, sometimes called dex- trin-maltose, by means of a nitrogenous substance derived from the gluten of the grain, which is known as diastase. This diastase exists in malt to a greater extent than is necessary to change the starch into a sugar, so that raw grain is added to it abroad. The temperature at which the malt is dried depends on the kind of beer to be brewed, being at about 100° F. for pale ale, about 120° F. for amber ale, and about 160° F. for porter or stout. The first step in