299 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. high, and we have known them to grow, by good keep, nearly a hand higher. They are well made and active, and make excellent hunters for boys and light weights, and we may say more about them when we come to the details of horse-dealing. For the present we have said enough of the different breeds to give our readers a fair amount of information on a subject which is almost inexhaustible. We shall next consider the various classes (not breeds) of English horses, with their adaptability to our service. ODDS AND ENDS. Keeping Liquids Warm.—To keep liquids warm for any length of time, it is usually said that vessels of polished metal should be used, and that such vessels should always be kept perfectly bright, in which con- dition they are estimated to radiate (or part with) heat as one, although if tarnished they will radiate it as nearly two and a half. But polished metals are good con- ductors of heat, and by contact part readily with it. The best vessels for such a purpose are, therefore, vessels made with earthenware and coated with metal, earthen- ware being a bad conductor of heat, and polished metal a bad radiator. Back Windows.—To shut out a disagreeable view from a back window, the glass may be rendered ornamental, and the obnoxious objects shut out, by a very simple plan, which makes a fair imitation of ground glass. This is effected by cutting out stars or diamonds upon a piece of white muslin, tarlatan, or common tissue-paper, which is then gummed or pasted on to each pane of glass, the great point being to get the gum or paste as colourless as possible. By washing the glass over with a hot saturated solution of Epsom salts, or sal ammoniac, or Glauber’s salts, or blue stone, very beautiful effects of crystallisation Fig. I. Fig. 2. Fig. 3. can be obtained, by which also the above purpose is served in shutting out an obnoxious view, and the window has also a very ornamental appearance. By a saturated solution is meant one containing as much of the salt as the water will dissolve. The solution must be applied while hot, and with a brush. Be careful not to use salts of a deliquescent nature. To aid our readers in making their choice of crystals, we give a diagram, in which Fig. i represents the crystals formed by the sal ammoniac. Fig. 2 those formed by Epsom salts (four-sided prisms) ; Fig. 3, the crystals of Glauber’s salts (six-sided prisms). Stools for Children.—Children should have stools low enough to let them rest their feet upon the ground ; and these stools, if made after the manner of the north country “cracket,” are easily knocked together at home. The seat is round, made of a thick piece of deal; three holes are drilled or burnt within this with a red-hot poker, and into these the legs are fixed. Hyposulphite of Soda {a Hint for the Laundry).— We are informed that the above is an excellent substitute for common washing soda, by the adoption of which the laundry would be really benefited. It does not appear to injure the texture of linen and cotton articles as the coarse soda commonly employed does: clothes come from the wash-tub in which it is used softer and cleaner, and they dry whiter. Washhtg Blankets.—We append a few hints on the best way of washing blankets. In the first place use tepid water with a little soda in it. The blankets, first rubbed well over with soap, then put into the water and kneaded with the fists, as in kneading dough. If a little ox-gall— a very little—be put in the first water, the impurities soon mingle with it. Scotch lasses jump on blankets when in the tub, and so tread out the dirt. The water must be changed often, or until it looks clean ; but the blankets must vje soaped each time, or put in a lather of soap and a little soda, prepared in a copper. The rinsing water must also be soapy, or the wool will dry harsh, and the blankets shrink. They must be wrung as dry as possible, and after hanging on the drying-line for an hour, be taken down and be pulled on all sides by two persons, to pre- vent them “ felting.” Blankets will “ felt,” or “ mat,” if the water they are washed in be very hot—tepid water only should be used—or if much water be left in them when hung up to dry. Pearl White.—This is an oxide of bismuth, and, though very clear, is very evanescent. If it comes into contact with sulphuretted hydrogen gas it at once turns black. Ladies inclined to use it as a cosmetic, ought to be made aware of its liability to change colour under circumstances which might lead to unpleasant consequences. THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC.—XVI. GAS {continued from f. 274). We now come to the second division of the subject, viz., the burning of gas for heating purposes. The principle to be observed with regard to the use of gas as a heating medium, is that any emission of light from the flame will result in a corresponding loss of heat, a blue non-luminous flame giving the best result. Such a flame will be pro- duced by allowing the stream of gas from an ordinary jet to pass through a sheet of fine gauze. The gas being lighted above it, it will be thoroughly mixed up with a larger amount of air than it could come in contact with as a simple flame. Again, an ordinary gas flame being interrupted by striking upon a surface of any object, the heating and incandescence of the carbon particles will be disturbed, and in consequence of the imperfect combus- tion these particles, instead of being wholly consumed, will become condensed and deposited in the form of soot. In this case, as before, every particle of soot or smoke produced is the positive waste and loss of heat. It is to prevent this loss of heat and production of soot and smoke that the gas and air burner now so generally known and used is contrived. Fig. 82 is a rude embodiment of the principle on which its action is dependent, shown in sec- tion (p. 300). A jet of gas from the main service through the pipe A shoots into the larger pipe B, at a part of which tube B, lower than the nozzle of A, are holes, C C, open to the air. The force of the gas through A is sufficient to draw in through the holes C C a considerable amount of air, which mixes with the gas, and is consumed at the flame D, which becomes exposed to the outer air at that end in addition. The principle is embodied into all sorts of shapes and sizes of pipes, and for all sorts of purposes and requirements, but it remains the same, being a jet of gas forced into a pipe open at the end behind which the gas enters, the force of which drags after it a large quantity of air, which mixing with it escapes at the holes, where it is burnt. These holes are very much larger than the ring burner as usually made—a great advantage, as the very small holes soon become corroded and stopped up by the gas, and the vapour which is always the product of combustion of mixtures of hydrogen and oxygen gases-