320 HOUSEHOLD AMUSEMENTS. rales are observed; but in single dummy one hand is usually exposed upon the table, the players cutting to decide who shall first take “ dummy” as his partner and play his cards ; and in double dummy, each of the two players has thus to conduct the game of a suppositious partner as well as his own. The game of “ dummy,” in either case, is inferior to that of whist in its usual form ; but it is considered useful practice, and single dummy especially affords much interest and amusement. COMICAL COMBINATIONS. This is a game which can be made a source of con- siderable merriment and amusement by a party of young people who have some skill, however slight, in drawing. It is not known under any especial name, and it is played in the following way:—Those engaged in it sit round the table, and each is supplied with a piece of writing-paper folded into three parts, and a lead pencil. In the first place each sketches a head and neck—that of a man or woman, or that of some inferior animal, taking care that his neigh- bour does not see what he has done. Then each re-folds the paper, so as to hide his or her sketch ; but leaves indications of where the neck is on the blank part of the paper which is folded over it. The papers then change hands all round, and each proceeds to sketch a body for the head he has not seen. When this has been accomplished, the papers are again re-folded as be- fore ; another change takes place; and all proceed to supply legs for the bodies they have not seen, just as before they supplied bodies for the heads they had not seen. When all this has been done, another change of papers takes place, and then each writes the name sup- posed to belong to the figure thus curiously compounded, after which the papers are unfolded, and the result is usually successive bursts of laughter at the oddness or ab- surdity of the combinations. For instance, A draws the head (i), B the body (2), C the legs (3) ; the result of which, when unfolded, may be some such absurdity as is shown in Fig. I. ACTED CHARADES. Acted charades, in which syllables and words are re- , presented by short dramatic scenes or tableaux, are a modern invention, and rank among the most attractive of in-door amusements. They require no great art in the performance, and a little practice will enable any family circle to get them up, when they know how to set about it. A word is chosen, of two or more syllables, each of which has a distinct meaning ; these syllables are then represented, in their order, by action, either with or without dialogue, and afterwards the entire word is expressed in the same way, the spectators being expected to guess what each scene has represented. The company should properly be divided into two parties, each side in turn performing a charade, or tasking its penetration to detect the word on which che performance of the other side was founded. But if there be many persons present, the better plan is to select a few from the company to form sides, and each will thus relieve the other in contributing actively to the general amusement. All persons, old or young, may be brought into the performance of particular scenes, if they are disposed to enter into the pastime. The first thing necessary is the apartment in which the charades are to be enacted. The ordinary pair of rooms with folding doors, or a pair which may be separated by a screen or curtain, is well adapted to the purpose. The larger should be devoted to the general company or audience ; the smaller being the arena in which the per* formances take place. During the preparation of the charade, and between its different scenes, the doors are closed; and, in order to prevent the spectators feeling the intervals irksome, it is well for some one to volunteer a little performance on the piano, or for ordinary conversation to go on as if nothing were expected. The performers, retiring, agree among themselves as to the word which shall be the subject of the charade. As a rule, words of two syllables are best; for these, requiring three scenes in all for their expression, are found quite long enough both by the performers and by the spectators who have to guess their meaning. As we have intimated, each syllable of the word chosen should be complete in itself, and capable of complete expression in the little drama or pantomime which has to be represented. Far-fetched puns and distortions of language are generally inadmissible, as not affording a fair chance to the opposite side, or to the company who comprise the audience, to guess the word which the scenes are designed to convey; but the simple doubling of a consonant, as where “ in ” is expressed by the representation of an “ inn,” or the occasional addition of a vowel which does not affect the sound, as in “ pi(e)lots,” is perfectly allowable ; and this hint will fur- nish our readers with a key to the solution of many charades which at first may appear very puzzling. As examples of words, mostly of two syllables, from which a selection may be made, we will give the following :— Almshouse Bridewell Farewell Muffin(n) Altar (all-tar) Cabbage Fireworks Nosegay Artful Cand(y)date Footpad Outfit Backgammon Carmine Gooseberry Pancake Bagpipe Carpet Gunpowder Patchwork Bandage Catcall Hamlet Patriot Bandbox Caterpillar Hammock Pilgrim Bargain Chairman Handcuff Pi(e)lot Beefeater Checkmate Flelpmate Postboy ■ Bellman Childhood Floneymoon Rest-oration Birthday Cornice Hornpipe Ringlets Blacksmith Cottage Hostage Saucebox Blackstone Counterpane Idol Shamrock Blockhead Counterpart Jnnkeeper Snuffbox Blunderbuss Courtship Jew’s-harp Spinster Boatswain Coxcomb Jovial Sweetheart Bondage Crosspatch Keyhole Telltale Bootjack Cutlass Luggage Timepiece Bracelet Dewdrop Madcap Toi(y)let Breakfast Donkey Magpie Upshot Brickbat Earwig Messmate Wardrobe Bridecake Eyeglass Milksop Watchman Bridegroom Falsehood Mis(s)takt Welcome Fig. I.