138 GARDENING. drawback to it is that it requires two to use it. No other implement, however, will do so well for the purpose. In our next paper we will describe some more of the most ordinary garden tools ; at present the following list of the prices of tools may be found useful to some of our readers :— £ t. d. S. d. Spade 0 2 0 Brought forward 2 2 I Shovel ... 0 2 0 Billhook 0 2 6 Spud 0 0 6 Wheelbarrow ... I 5 0 Digsjing Fork ... 0 2 0 Handbarrow 0 10 0 Three-pronged Fork 0 I .3 Roller ... 4 0 0 Pitchfork 0 I 6 Ladder ... I 0 0 Weeding Fork ... 0 I 3 Steps 0 5 6 Draw Hoe, 6d., is. Garden Bme 0 I 6 and IS. 6d. ... 0 3 0 Pruning Scissors 0 4 6 Drill Hoe 0 I 0 Daisy Kake 0 4 0 Rake, IS. 2d. and 2s. 0 3 2 Scythe ... 0 10 6 Dibber ... 0 0 8 Mowing Machine 3 10 0 Trowel ... 0 0 9 Turf Cutter 0 1 6 Potato Dibber ... 0 0 Dock Spud ,.. 0 I 6 Shears, short handles 0 2 6 Dutch Hoe 0 I 2 Do. long handles 0 5 0 Pick-axe 0 2 6 Basket ... 0 2 6 Fumigator 0 9 6 Pruning Knife ... 0 I 6 Axe 0 2 0 Budding Knife ... 0 2 6 Syringe ... 0 10 6 Water Pots, is. 3d. Water Barrow ... 'j 0 0 and 5s. 9d. ... 0 7 0 Measuring 'Tape 0 I 6 Carried forward £2 2 I £^7 5 9 ROTATION CROPPING OF A SMALL GARDEN. In our last article on Gardening (page 114), we gave a plan for laying out a small villa garden. In the present and subsequent papers, we propose to give directions for cropping to the best advantage the eight beds into which the kitchen garden was divided. The numbers refer to the beds in the plan. January.— i. This bed is planted with strawberries and raspberries—the former must be protected from frost, and the stakes of the latter attended to. 2. Manure and dig this compartment as soon as vacant ; half of it may be cropped with potatoes, the remainder to be left for cauliflowers, to be planted in March or April. 3. This plot is laid down with permanent crops of sea-kale, rhubarb, and globe artichokes. All that can be done now is to cover the roots of the artichokes with stable manure. 4. Let this plot be well manured and dug as soon as empty, so that it may be ready for the reception of onions early in March. 5. Early peas may be sown to succeed those sown in November, and such greens and other crops as are of no further use removed to make room for a succession of peas. 6. If celery, Brassels sprouts, or other winter crops, have been grown here, you may clear them off as soon as possible, and manure and dig the ground for the reception of scaflet runner beans. 7. If this plot is empty, as it should be, get it ready for carrots and other roots by trenching the ground to the depth of eighteen inches at least. 8. This is supposed to serve for odds and ends. All you can do is to manure and trench such portions as become vacant, leaving the surface to be penetrated by frost. February.— i. Remove covering from strawben-ies, and fasten raspberries to their stakes. 2. If potatoes were planted here last month, no particular attention will be required, save getting in readiness the space left for cauli- flowers. 3. Sea-kale and rhubarb for succession should be covered with leaves or dung. 4. Give this a slight forking over on a frosty day. Radishes may be sown with the onions in March. 5. Another sowing of peas may be made for succession. Remove spent broccoli, and dig the ground at once. 6. Continue to manure and dig the ground as it becomes vacant, for it will be required for dwarf and runner beans. 7. Expose the surface of the ground to frost as much as possible by digging and leaving it in rough trenches, and sow a row or two of broad beans. 8. Take up winter turnips, and have the ground manured and trenched for the reception of future crops. March.—i. If the covering was not removed from strawberries last month, remove it at once, and stir the soil between the rows. Prune raspberries left un- touched last month, and stir the soil between them, but not deep enough to injure the roots. 2. Plant cauli- flowers here. Potatoes planted last month will make their appearance above ground, and will require pro- tection from frost; any portion of this plot that has become vacant by the removal of any winter crop, should be removed and dug up at once. 3. Make a fresh plantation of globe artichokes, and keep up a succession of rhubarb and sea-kale. 4. Sow onions here, either broadcast or in rows ; if the former method is adopted, radishes may be sown with them. 5. Sow peas, and get any vacant ground cleared, manured, and trenched for the reception of future crops. Round-leaved spinach may be sown between the rows of peas. 6. Very little can be done with this plot as yet, it being too early for dwarf and runner beans, but it must be well weeded, and the sur- face of the soil occasionally stirred. 7. If a few broad beans were sown here last month you may get the re- mainder of the plot ready for the reception of a crop of carrots, with parsnips if you wish them. 8. This plot being intended for growing various things not mentioned above, it may be got into order fbr whatever things the cultivator may have occasion to grow hereafter. April.—I. As this contains the strawberries and rasp- berries only, there will be little to do save forking over the ground between the rows of the former, and pruning and tying up the latter, if not already done. 2. A portion of this may be planted with cauliflowers, if not done last month. Potatoes may occupy another portion, and, if desirable, the remaining ground filled up with later cauliflowers. 3. This being laid down with perma- nent crops, will require, during the present month, little or no care, save putting the ground in order for the season. 4. Presuming that you sowed radishes and onions here last month, there will be nothing to do but to stir the soil between the young plants with a hoe. 5. Two lots of peas may be sown at different periods this month. Clear the ground of green stuff that is done with, and manure and dig the vacant space. Stick the early sown peas as they advance in growth. 6. This plot, which has been kept vacant may be sown with dwarf and runner beans, at the commencement, and against the end of the month. 7. Early horn and long Surrey carrots may be sown early in the month, and beet at the end of it. Thin out the parsnips as soon as they are large enough to handle. Stir the surface between advancing beans and sow more for a second crop towards the end of the month. 8. Turnips may be sown on a portion of this plot, about the second week in the month, and any other crop that is likely to be required may be sown or planted in the remaining space. May.—I. Attention will be required here, for if the season proves dry it will be necessary to water the strawberry plants liberally. The raspberries will require little or no attention for the present. 2. Earth up the potatoes towards the end of the month, and keep down weeds. Stir the soil between the first planted cauliflowers, and put out a row or two more in the space reserved for a second lot. 3. Give the sea-kale beds a good dressing, and the ground between the plants a slight digging or forking over. 4. Keep onions clear of weeds, and draw radishes as soon as possible, to give the onions ample room to grow. 5. Place stakes to the different crops of peas as they seem to need it, and sow a