226 DOMESTIC MEDICINE. plished ;—With the fine linen thread the needle must be passed through one of the openings in the edging of the braid, as if for over-casting, but the stitch must not be drawn tighter than is required to make it about the same size as the edging of the braid, then the needle being passed through the single part of the stitch, still in the manner of over-casting, the thread is drawn tightly and fastens the stitch ; this must be repeated in every second or third loop of the braid-edge, and forms another edging upon it, which greatly improves the work. This double over-cast is repeated on the inside of the braid, and each leaf and open part of the design is filled up with a succession of rows of this stitch, which need not, however, be done with great preciseness in the filling up, as a slight irregularity in the size and tightness rather adds to the ge?iidne ap- pearance of the point. Care must, nevertheless, be taken that the work be close enough to secure the braid in the pattern traced, as this will be found of great importance when the threads at the back of the design are cut away at the last. The details of the work are shown in Fig. i. With this open over-cast a great deal may be done towards making the braid lie well to the pattern ; in the curves, for instance—where the inner edge will naturally be slightly fuller than the outer, or vice versa—by omit- ting one or two stitches of the open-work, in one case, or putting two stitches into one, in the other, it will be made right. The bars, Fig. 4, joining the various parts of the design are done when all the filling up is completed. To make them, the needle with the fine thread, after being darned in and out of the centre of the braid, to make the end secure, is brought out at the edge and passed across and across three or four times to the opposite opening, and upon these threads, thus made up, a close plain over- cast is worked. On reaching the end of the bar, the thread worked with may be fastened off in the braid, or carefully darned along it until the next bar is reached. In those parts of the design where the braid on the. one side comes very near to that on the other, it will not be requisite to work the double over-cast on the inside edge, but the two inner open edges of the braid on each side may be drawn together by passing the needle from one to the other. It is almost needless to add that in the braiding only must the needle be taken through the linen, &c., all the rest of the work must be done on the surface, and care must be taken not to catch up the linen with it. To prevent all chance of this, and also to avoid splitting the thread, it will be found advisable to work as much as possible with the head of the needle and not with the point. The threads of the braiding must be cut when all is finished, and the work taken off with the greatest care. The braid not having been cut off, the design may be continued to any length required, as it will be found that the end of the w’ork, when detached, will correspond with the beginning of the design, and can then be proceeded with as at first. Some persons trace out the design for point work on pink glazed calico, and, before braiding, sew it dowm on a piece of strong paper. The pink colour enables the worker in some instances to see the pattern more easily by gas-light. In our next paper on this subject we hope to give direc- tions for some open stitches, so as to vary the filling-in of the leaves, and also a slightly different mode of working the bars. DOMESTIC MEDICINE.—VI. RELAP.SING FEVER. This is a disease suggestive of extensive destitution. It often occurs in populous towns. It differs from typhus in being not at all fatal, and in the fact that the sufferers arc liable to relapse. After being ill for a week, they seem to be getting pretty w'ell for another week, and then they have a return of all the symptoms. Like typhus it is very contagious, and seems to affect nearly all the members of the poor homes in which, for the most part, it occurs. The symptoms are shiverings, headache, muscular pains followed by fever, rapid pulse, thirst, pains in the epigas- trium, and vomiting. Blood-stains like bruises may appear, but there is no proper eruption. There is con- siderable prostration. On the fifth or the seventh day there is great improvement, till about the fourteenth, when the patient relapses. On the the third or fourth day after this, the patient again improves and gradually gets well. The disease is seldom fatal. The patient should be isolated or sent to the fever hospital. Little treatment is required, other than simple nourishing food and rest in bed. HOOPING-COUGH. This disease is like the diseases discussed in our last papers in two respects : it is intensely contagious, and it seldom occurs more than once. The main features of it are very palpable and very familiar. It is from time to time extensively prevalent throughout the country. Hooping-cough generally begins with symptoms of a common catarrh or cold, such as sneezing, cough, and feverishness. After these symptoms have lasted for about a w^eek, the cough begins to show the peculiar character- istics of hooping-cough, which may be said to be two: first, it is pa7'Oxys7iial—that is, it comes on m severe fits, with intervals of comparative freedom ; secondly, it is attended with a hoop. In the majority of cases the paroxysms or fits of coughing are worse in the night. There is every variety in the severity of the symptoms of cold which usher in hooping-cough. They may be quite mild, or they may be very sharp. The peculiar character of this disease is hoop, which we shall try to explain. It arises from the spasmodic closing of the upper part of the windpipe. The child affected with hooping-cough, at the end of a fit of cough- ing severe and prolonged, is apparently in a state of impending suffocation. The air has been all, or nearly all, expelled from the lungs by the successive acts of coughing. The face is red or blue ; the nose, or any part of the mucous membrane of the head or chest, may bleed ; and the whole frame seems shaken and terrified. To all appearances the child is in extremity for want of air. The only comfort is that, as a matter of fact, here, at least, when matters are at their worst they mend. Just when the child seems on the point of suffocation, it draws in a long breath through the closed glottis, or upper part of the windpipe. It is the passage of air through this narrow chink that gives rise to the sound with which we are all so familiar. This, so far from alarming us, may re- assure us that air is getting in where it is badly wanted. The fit of coughing may now terminate, but generally it begins again after the hoop, which is again followed by a number of short, hurried coughs, until some glairy phlegm is coughed or vomited up, and the child breathes again like other people. Occurring in its simplest form, hooping-cough is a nervous or spasmodic disease, coming on in fits of cough- ing, and leaving the patient in the interval pretty well. But it is seldom that it is altogether so simple as this, and we may specify two or three ways in which the disease is apt to be complicated. First, the child is apt to have inflammation of the chest. Generally there is more or less 'of bronchitis ; but in a considerable number of cases there is a good deal of bronchitis, which alters the character of the cough, and which may be known by feverishness, quick breathing, wheezing sounds, and the other symptoms which w'e have described under the head of bronchitis. Bronchitis alters the sound of the cough. After a day or two it prevents