CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 23 notice. Fat is a very influential item in the food as regards the skin, and if it cannot be taken in the ordinary way, it is just a question whether it should not be given in an artificial form, by way of cod-liver oil, which has great effect for good on the skin. The dose for a child of a year old is ten to twenty drops; for those of five, half a teaspoonful. With regard to adults, the guide to what is best to be taken for the good of the skin, is the effect of food upon the stomach. If there be any article which in being taken does not sit lightly upon the stomach, or flushes the face, that should be avoided, for its use will very likely lead to the development of pimples and red blotches. It has been said that tea and coffee act injuriously upon the skin. There is no foundation for this opinion, but this is certain that a very close sympathy exists between the face and the stomach, and when there is a feeling of heat, or the appearance of a red flush after taking beer or wine, or any particular article of diet, in young persons, we may expect the face to become disordered, and blotches and pimples to appear. THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC.—H. THE TOOL-CHEST (continuedfromp. 16). Files and Rasps.—Files are flat blades of steel fixed by a tang into a wooden handle, and cut all over with a series of teeth more or less minute, the various sizes of which are known as rough cut, bastard cut, second cut, smooth, and superfine, and they are of various shapes and sections, such as round, half-round, square, oblong, triangular, oval, &c., according to the purpose for which they are required. The square and oblong shapes often have one edge not cut. This is called a “ safe edge,” and is used as a guide in filing up shoulders, &c. Usually files are of fully hardened steel, and ai'e therefore capable of attacking any metal which is not equal to themselves in hardness. A large proportion are made rather thicker in the middle than at either end, in order to in some degree counteract the rolling motion of the hands, which it is very difficult altogether to prevent in the filing of flat surfaces. They are, however, sometimes made with parallel surfaces and edges. For the purposes of cutting thin slits, such as the nicks on the heads of screws, thin blades, cut only on the edge, are used. These are called slitting files. In all cases where from use on material of adhesive nature files have become clogged up, the teefh should be brushed out with a file-card, for which purpose a piece of worn out cotton combing-card, a kind of thick fustian woven with steel wires, answers admirably. As files are a somewhat large item of expenditure in a workshop, fronr the speedy wear to which they are subject, many methods have been tried for recutting the teeth, when worn away, by means of acid. The following method we have found very effective for fine files, but of little use with coarse ones. After being brushed clean, an old file is dipped into a mixture of three parts sulphuric acid, one part nitric acid, and seven parts water for a time varying from five to twenty minutes, according to the freshness of the mixture, and the depth of cut required ; it is then washed in water, and dipped in lime-water to prevent any further action of the acid, again washed, and dried by heat, and brushed over with a mixture of oil and turpentine to prevent it from rusting. Whether this process acts only by clearing out dirt and dust, or really cuts into the surface, we cannot say, but we know from experience that it is certainly effective, although not quite so good as re- cutting, a process we do not advise our readers to attempt. The acid process should be performed out of doors, as the fumes given off are rather unpleasant. Considerable practice is necessary to attain much pro- ficiency in hand filing, especially of flat surfaces, as, from the motions of the elbow and shoulder joints, the hands naturally tend to move the tool in curved lines, thereby making the work convex or rounded. The same fault is further induced by the fact that in sweeping a file of moderate length across a narrow surface, one hand being at each end, the blade becomes a lever, the fulcram of which is continually shifting in position; and if the- pressure at each hand is kept constant, the ends will alternately be raised or depressed, and will, of course, pro- duce a convex surface, instead of a square and true one. As before explained, it is in some degree to counteract this tendency that files are made thicker in the middle than at the ends, or “bellied,” as it is termed. In finish- ing and smoothing filed works the files are slid along sideways or laterally. This motion is called draw filing, the teeth only scratch, and do not cut. Rasps are the same in action as files, but, being used for wood, the teeth are larger, being produced one at a time by blows of a small chisel or punch. The teeth are always in lines, ranged diagonally, or in curved rows across the blade. Gimlets and Augers.—Fig. 7 shows the ordinary form of gimlet, which is simply a piece of steel wire fastened into a handle at right angles to it, the lower or cutting part of which is grooved and fluted out so as to leave sharp edges. At the extreme end is a small taper screw, by which the tool is kept continually forcing its way into the wood, the edges of the flute cutting out the shavings which escape out up the groove. Twisted gimlets, Fig. 8, are by far the best, the efect being exactly the same, for as the flute is twisted round the barrel the wire is not so 0 B A 1 • ] Fig, 10. much weakened, and the groove being in the form of a screw, the shavings are lifted out, instead of having to force their way up the groove. Augers, Fig. 9, are like twisted gimlets, but in place of one groove they have two wound round the rod ; the bottom edges of the metal left by the two grooves are sharpened into a cutting edge, and consequently their action is very easy, smooth, and rapid. The largest augers are not fixed into handles, but have their tops expanded into rings, into which a movable handle is thrust.