CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. immediately removed by drawing the upper lid well down over the lower, and then allowing the eye to be slowly opened, when very generally the intruder will be en- tangled in the lower lashes and thus removed. If this little manoeuvre, repeated once or twice, does not prove successful, it will be necessary to turn the upper lid up, so as to expose its under surface. This can be accomplished by a non-professional person with a little care, and with- out any risk of injuring the eye, as follows The patient being seated, and leaning his head back against the operator’s breast, the latter, holding an ordinary bodkin in one hand, presses it gently on the outside of the lid, Jand about half-way down. With the fingers of the other hand he then seizes the eye-lashes, and, drawing the lid a little forwai'd, turns it up over the bodkin. This will be accomplished readily enough if the operator is steady and the patient willing, and the whole surface of the eye will then be exposed, when the foreign body can be seen and removed. If, however, the particle is of a pointed character—e.£-., a piece of steel—and is embedded in the cornea, or transparent covering of the eye-ball, the assist- ance of a surgeon should be at once obtained to ensure its safe and early removal. In any case of injury to the surface of the eye the application of a drop of castor or other oil, as recommended in the previous section, will be found of great service. Foreign bodies are often introduced by children into the nose or ear, in sport, and are generally of a more or less globular form, such as beads, pebbles, cherry-stones, or beans. These, if near the orifice, may be readily hooked out with one of the common ear-picks found in ladies’ dressing-cases, or with the loop of a common hair-pin ; but if more deeply placed, injudicious poking with instru- ments may do harm, especially in the ear, and it is better to have recourse to the injection of a stream of warm water with a good-sized syringe, by which the inter- loper may be washed out. In the case of the nostril, a violent sneeze, induced by the inhalation of a pinch of snuff or pepper, will often dislodge the obstacle, but if recourse is had to syringing, the best method is to inject the water through the opposite nostril, when, if the patient leans forward, and keeps the mouth open, the water will run round the back of the nose and out at the affected nostril, bringing the foreign body with it. The vulgar notion that “ earwigs” have a tendency to find their way into the ear, is a popular delusion, but as it occasionally happens that an ant or other small insect enters the ear, and gives rise to pain and irritation, it may be well to mention that the simplest way of relieving the sufferer is to place the head horizontally and to fill the ear with water, when the insect will be at once floated out of the cavity. Foreign bodies in any part of the wind-pipe are always serious, and may be immediately fatal. The accident commonly happens from a child having some plaything, such as a bean, small, marble, bead, or nut-shell, in its' mouth and being desired to take it out, when, either in the hurry to obey, or possibly from its disinclination to do so being quickened by a cuff, the foreign body slips into the wind-pipe, and produces serious mischief. In the well-known case of the late Mr. Brunei, the eminent engineer, whose life was endangered by an accident of this kind, it arose from his performing a conjuring-trick with a half-sovereign in his mouth, and the coin slipping into his wind-pipe. When the foreign body becomes fixed in the upper part of the wind-pipe or larynx, so as to obstruct the breathing, the patient becomes black in the face, and falls back apparently dead. This sometimes happens during a meal, fr om a child or grown-up person happening to cough while eating, and thus drawing a piece of food into the air-passages. Whatever the cause, a by-stander should, without hesitation, thrust his fore- finger to the back of the throat, and endeavour to hook up with it the offending body, and this can often be done, 1 155 when the patient will at once breathe again. If this method is not successful, the patient, if a child, should be held up by the legs and be smartly thumped between the shoulders, when not improbably the foreign body will drop on to the floor, and the child will then begin to respire and cry ; but if respiration is still suspended, cold water dashed on the chest will probably rouse it, or, if not, recourse must be had to artificial respiration, as described under the head of Suspended Animation (page iii). Of course, medical aid will be summoned at once in any case of serious choking, if possible, but the majority of these cases do well without it. If, however, the foreign body is not dislodged by the efforts of by-standers, an operation will be necessary to save life, and every moment will be of importance. Even if the urgent symptoms have passed off, and the child appears to be restored to health, yet, if the foreign body has not been found, the advice of a surgeon should, nevertheless, be sought at once, as it may still be lodged in the deeper air-passages, where it may cause fatal mischief if not dislodged at an early period. Foreign bodies seldom lodge in the gullet, and such obstacles as fish-bones can generally be got down safely into the stomach by swallowing a large mouthful of well- masticated bread. In cases where this does not succeed in removing the bone, a medical man should be sent for, who can, by a very simple treatment, get rid of the obstruction. The most serious obstruction is a set of false teeth, since the plate upon which they are fixed is apt to become entangled in the mucous membrane, and necessitate a serious surgical operation. The best way to avoid such an accident is for the wearers of artificial teeth on no account to go to bed with them in their mouths, since it is usually during sleep that the accident happens. Foreign bodies, such as coins, often pass into the stomachs of children, and give unnecessary alarm to their friends. In the great majority of cases, such articles would pass through the intestines without any treatment, but certainly the worst treatment possible is to give the child purgative medicine, as is so often done. Either an emetic of mustard and water should be administered at once, so as to bring up the foreign body, or, if the case is seen too late for this, every effort should be made to cover it over with more or less adhesive food, so that it may pass readily through the bowels. Pins or needles, when swal- lowed, should always be treated in this latter way. The best regimen for a child, under these circumstances, is plenty of bread and milk, with common hard dumplings and bread and cheese for his dinner, and a careful avoid- ance of fruit, &c., until the indigestible body has come away. FURNITURE.—III. BEDROOM FURNITURE. The furnishing of bedrooms affords scope for great taste in selecting expensive articles, or for much ingenuity in fitting and adapting materials to the limits of small means, yet such as shall not be devoid of beauty or elegance. Mahogany now takes the place of the dark well-polished oak of former days. The silver fir and enamelled furniture are specialities of different makers, the one being polished or varnished deal, white or stained, and the other painted in delicate colours, and varnished, or japanned, as it is termed by the trade. Of the two the deal is the most useful, and is not inelegant. The only drawback to the beauty of enamelled wood is that it shows every spot and finger-mark, and cannot be cleaned without some tarnish. A carefully-trained housemaid will not soil it with uncleanly touch; but splashings will show on the washstand. Mahogany or walnut are certainly the best woods for bedroom furniture, if somewhat expensive. Birchwood is excellent also, and when of good grain in tint resembles satin-wood, formerly so much prized.