CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 127 leader,” to suggest how much more comfortable and con- venient the old squab sofa is, with its square mattress and cushions, than the more modern but unmeaning couch, with a scroll end, pretty to look at, but neither comfort- able nor so pleasant for use. In France couches look their best, and do duty for sofas during the day, but at night they can be carried into any bed-room, uncovered, the two scrolls at the end turned down, and the cushions taken off, when a luxurious spring mattress is revealed, upon which the cushions are replaced, and a good, com- fortable bed is at once arranged. However, this con- trivance has not yet been introduced into England. As a covering for a couch, the American leather-cloth wears badly, though it is rapidly superseding the use of horse- hair. But better than the former is a good dark green Coburg cloth; it wears well, and can be replaced when shabby at small expense. HOUSEHOLD AMUSEMENTS.-I. It is related of one of England’s greatest statesmen, that some one calling to see him unexpectedly on grave political affairs, found him, not absorbed in state papers and official documents, but on all fours in his nursery, with his children romping upon and around him. And of another eminent man, the late Earl of Derby, it has been, recorded, in a graceful tribute paid to his memory, that while at times he would seek recreation from political labours in the translation of Homer, at others he loved to find it in Making some wonder for a happy child/* Many other instances might be quoted to prove that the busiest and greatest men, as well as the humblest, have often found delight and solace in participation in the amusements of youth in their own households. Not, there- fore, the young only, but also those in more advanced life, the best among us feel that it is desirable to cultivate the recreations of home, and to be ready at times for frolic and the innocent enjoyment of household pastimes. We shall try, in a series of papers, to guide all who may read this work in the choice of such recreations, by giving a description of many which are familiar, and of others less generally known; sometimes choosing the simplest in-door games, and at others, commenting on pastimes of a more intricate character, and thus enabling all to select the amusement which is most suited to the tastes and circumstances both of themselves and those around them. The dark evenings of winter and early spring call into request games for round parties, and we shall devote the present paper to some of theses To commence with a very simple one, we will describe a game of German origin, known as The Ball of Wool.—The party are seated round a table, from which the cloth must be drawn. A little wool is' rolled up into the form of a ball, and placed in the middle of the table. The company then commence to blow upon it, each one trying to drive it awa,y from his own direction, and the object of all being to blow it off, so that the person by whose right side it falls may pay a forfeit. The longer the ball is kept on the table by the opposing puffs of the surrounding party, the inore amusing the game becomes,, as the distended cheeks and zealous exertions of the players afford mirth to lookers-on as well as to them-: selves. Similar to this is a game called “ Blowing the Feather,” in which a small feather set floating in the air answers the same purpose as the ball upon the table. The forfeit falls to the individual whose puff is ineffectual in keeping the feather afloat, or who suffers it to drop when it reaches him. Of a different character, and still more comic in its results, is a game called Shadows.—This game, sometimes called “ Shadow Buff,” is productive of much amusement in a round party. It consists in the detection of the individuals who compose the company by their shadows ; but these they are at liberty to disguise as much as possible. The following is the method pursued :— A white tablecloth or a sheet is suspended on one side of the apartment, and, at a short distance before this sheet, one of the party, chos'en for the purpose, is seated upon either the ground or a low stool, with his face directed towards the cloth. Behind him, on the farther side of the apartment, the table is placed, and upon it a lamp or taper, aU other lights in the apartment being extinguished. Each of the company in turn passes before the lamp and behind the person who is gazing upon the cloth, which thus receives a strong shadow. If the individual seated can name the person whose shadow is thus thrown, the latter has to pay a forfeit, or to take the place of the guesser, as may be agreed upon. It would be easy, in playing this game, to detect particular individuals if they passed in their natural attitude; but they are free to change this as much as lies in their power, by stooping, standing more erect than usual, bending the limbs, or using the arms in any way calculated to obscure the outline of the shadow and render it difficult of detection. An alteration in costume, such as turning up the collar or changing the coat, if a gentleman, and enveloping the head in a hood, in the case of a lady, is also allowable. The game gives rise to a good deal of ingenuity in this fashion, and may often proceed for some time before many forfeits have resulted. The Messettger.—The party are seated in line, or round the sides of the room, and some one previously appointed enters with the message, “My master sends me to you, madam,”- or “ sir,” as the case may be, directed to any individual he may select at his option. “ What for ? ” is the natural inquiry. “ To do as I do and with this the messenger commences to perform some antic, which the lady^or gentleman must imitate—say he wags his head from side to side, or taps with one foot incessantly on the floor. The person whose duty it is to obey commands his neighbour to the right or to the left to “ Do as I do,” also ; and so on until the whole company are in motion, when the messenger leaves the room, re-entering it with fresh injunctions. While the messenger is in the room he must see his master’s will obeyed, and no one must stop from the movement without suffering a forfeit. The messenger should be some one ingenious in making the antics ludicrous, and yet kept within moderate bounds, and the game will not fail to produce shouts of laughter. Among the other tricks which may be commended are such as rocking the body to and fro, wiping the eyes with a pocket-handkerchief, yawning, whistling, stroking the chin or the beard, and making any grimace. Another game, of much the same character, is known by the title, “ Thus says the Grand Seignor.” The chief difference is that the first player is stationed in the centre of the room, and prefaces his movements, which the others must all follow, by the above words. If he varies his command, by framing it, So says the Grand Seignor,” the party must, remain still, and decline to follow his example. Any one who moves when he begins with “ So,” or does not .follow him when he commences with “ Thus,” has to pay a forfeit. Magic Music.—In this game a player is seated at the piano, and one of the others leaves the room, while the company decides what the last-mentioned is to do on his return. When called in, he is given a hint, but only a hint, of what he is expected to do. We will suppose that he is told that he is to “ make an offering to a certain lady.” He is left to himself as to what the offering may be, but