290 HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART. out from the hole at the base of the skull, where the neck has been taken off—this hole may be a little enlarged for the purpose. When this has been done, the cavity of the skull should be firmly stuffed full of the wool, with sufficient arsenical soap to completely wet it, and the eyes should be replaced by little balls of the same material, made as solid as possible, and rather larger than the natural eye-ball. The reason for filling the skull Jirtnly with this mixture will appear hereafter. Little bits of the same should also be poked into the palate, where divided (taking care to let no arsenical soap run down into the beak, or the feathers will be damaged), and the space between the jaws should also be filled with the soaked wool. When this is done, the skull may be rubbed over with arsenical soap, and the skin then re-drawn over the skull—this is easily done by feeling for the end of the beak, and holding it firmly, gently pulling the skin back into its natural place. Special care must be taken that the openings for the eyes are over the centre of the balls of cotton wool. The next thing that should be done, is to stuff the exterior nostrils of the bird (especially if prominent, as is the case witli many pigeons) with the soaked wool, for which purpose two little pieces of the size of a grain of rice each will generally suffice. The mouth must then be opened, and as much soaked wool as it will hold, in lieu of the tongue, put in, carefully plastering it down with your penknife, so as not to show when the beak is shut. The eyes (or rather eye, for one will generally suffice) is the next thing, and the bird should now be carefully examined to see which side is the most presentable, and which eye is most perfect as to feathering and eyelid. Artificial birds’-eyes can be bought of bird-stuffers at id., or sometimes 2d., a pair, and you have only to specify the colour and the kind of bird, to obtain what you want. Of course, you should endeavour to match the natural colour as nearly as possible. To put the eye in nicely is an art that experience alone can teach. A little hole or indenta- tion, should be made in the centre of the spurious eye-ball with the knife or the darning-needle to receive the wire at the back of the eye, and the rest can only be described as a process of putting a button through a very limp button- hole with the aid of the darning-needle. The darning-needle, or some implement of this sort, is also useful to bring up the eyelid over the edge of the eye- ball, and to arrange it in its natural shape, taking care to tuck back any stray hairs of wool that may come into sight. We are aware that some bird-stuffers do not put in the eyes while the lids arc fresh and soft, but we hold to our plan notwithstanding. The inside of the skin may now be liberally daubed with arsenical soap, with the finger or a brush, and then stuffed with plain wool, inserted in small pieces, and pressed closely up to the skull. Here we depart from the ordinary practice (so far as dealing with pigeons is con- cerned), by not inserting any wire to support the head at this period, and the benefit obtained is that the natural pose of the bird can be obtained without difficulty in this way, and the w'ire can be inserted afterwards, when the skin is hard. The stuffed head is to be noiv arranged on a board, and a good way to fix it is to fasten a piece of cork, about an inch in height, or rather less, down to the board with a nin, and then with a fine needle pierce through the upper part of the bird’s beak, or nostril, down into the cork. 'I'his assumes, of course, that you liavc put in one eye only, and that the head is to lie put on the screen in profile. A little stroking and smoothing of the feathers, and perhaps a little more stuffing with wool, so as to bring up the breast of the bird into its natural shape, will be all that is required—possibly, aided by a pin or two being stuck through the edge of the skin of the breast into the board, and the head thus fastened is complete for the present. The wings have now to be taken in hand, and the only thing required before stretching them out on the board, is to remove all the flesh and sinews that lie between the pinion and the elbow-joints, taking care not to cut tlie connection between the two bones at these joints. No care need be taken to preserve the skin and feathers that cover the edges of the wings from the pinions downwards, as this part wall be all covered by the head when the screen is made up. When all the flesh has been re- moved, rub the skin and bones well over with arsenical soap, taking care not to soil the feathers. The best way of stretching both wings so as exactly to match each other is to draw a straight line with a pencil across the board, and then laying each wing inside downwards on it, stretch it out straight, up to the line. Begin by confining the bone close to the elbow-joint by strong pins hammered into the board, one on each side ; then confine the pinion-joint in like manner ; and then take hold of the first pinion-feather, and, with a single pin. put in close to the stalk of the feather and about three inches from the end, bring it up to the pencil line ; and each succeeding feather (where they do not naturally come to their proper places) must be pinned in like manner. Many of the feathers will not lie flat to the board when this is done, and to make them do so, strips of card or mill-board, may be pinned down across the whole wing in such a way as to make them lie quite flat. Take care in stretching the wings that they are placed opposite one another, and by this means you will be able to get them exactly to match. The tail or the wing coverts may then be taken off (one or the other will be required, and the latter is the easier managed), and we have done with the pigeon, which may then be sent downstairs, and, if all sulphur be removed, may be put into to-morrow’s pie, or otherwise profitably disposed of. The wing coverts are tufts of strong feathers that grow on the back or shoulders of the pigeon, and should be taken off with the piece of skin on which they grew, and (after being rubbed with arsenical soap) pinned down flat on the board. When this is done, the board should be put away in a warm, dry place, where it will be free from dust for three weeks, or even longer ; and the screen-handles may now be prepared. These may be made in a variety of ways, and of numberless materials, but we will assume that we have to deal with one of the ordinary old-fashioned gilt wooden handles (costing about 2s. 6d. a pair), cleft at the top for the reception of the ordinary fancy hand-screen. First fill up the cleft by cutting a bit of wood to fit, and let it project two inches or more beyond the top; glue this in and let it dry, or bind it firmly, before proceeding; then cut a bit of stout millboard about three or four inches square or round, but taking care that it is well within the space that will be covered by the head of the bird (or, rather, by the breast feathers, as arranged on the board), and having pared off a piece from the side of the handle, so as to fit flat to the millboard, glue, and tie (by means of holes bored in the millboard) the handle firmly to it, as will be seen in Fig. 4, p. 289. Holes should also be made in the millboard, as drawn, to assist in fastening the wings, which is our next job. The wings being now taken off the board, will be found quite stiff and flat, and do not require any additional support. Lay them side by side, as they were on the board ; glue the millboard and the space on the -6utside of each wing that it will cover; and tie, with a darning-needle and some twine, the wings into their proper position. The drawing. Fig. 4, shows the handle with the cleft filled up, the piece of millboard attached, and, on one side, the wing, as fi.xed, covering half of it. When both wings have thus been fixed, they should be tied together at points A and I). At the point A, by using the darning-needle and m ine, but keeping under the short