CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 89 cut out the pattern with scissors ; fold it together, and give the corners the little slope or curve marked at E and E. When a cloak is to be made it is cut just the same, but a cape is formed two-thirds of the size, at the dotted line marked F, and a collar at that marked a. For a baby’s circular cape a collar is added, but the trimming is put on the neck like a collar, and of the same shape. Both cloaks should measure in the longest part, that is, from the neck to the edge in the centre of the back, not more than one yard ; a cir- cular cape rather less. Having obtained an accurate pattern it is easy to cut the material. Two yards of cashmere at 3s. 6d. or 4s. a yard is required. White is the most esteemed, and scarlet the most durable, of colours. Cashmere washes well, and can be dyed so as to look like new. A very pretty circu- lar cape can be made of white cashmere, trimmed with bright, light blue llama. A design for this is given in Fig. 21. The llama is put on broadly ; it must be cut to the curved shape of the cloak, and joined in breadths ; it en- circles the lower edge, and is rounded off towards the front. Up the front several handsome blue ribbon bows are sewn on, and the cloaks secured be- neath them by hooks and eyes. The llama should be tacked on flat after the breadths are joined, and very fine cot- ton should be used for the purpose. Turn in the upper edge, and sew it down with a narrow white silk braid. A handsome cloak may be lined throughout with white sarcenet; but it is very general, and far less costly, to use fine white cambric for the pur- pose. Having tacked on the blue trimming, and neatly run it into the braid at the edge, put the lining upon the cloak face to face, and tack it round, leaving the outside of both visible. Run it nicely together at the edge, and then turn it inside out, so that the right side of the cloak is outwards. A trimming, like a collai", of the blue has, of course, been placed on the cape as well as the broad edge. Add the bows, and the cloak is com- plete. It is very easily made. The trimming may be of silk instead of llama, and quilted instead of plain ; no braid is then needed. In cutting the newspaper pattern, we should call the reader’s attention to the fact that it must be doubled after cutting to see that both sides are alike. Indeed, it will be as well to cut it in half from A to B at the dotted line down the centre. The cashmere is cut in two pieces, the seam coming down the back of the cloak, unless it be wide enough to get the whole cloak without a seam. Pin the pat- tern thoroughly on the material; double before cutting. To make a cloak, as before named, the same directions must be followed, and the cape and collar cut on a similar plan, but smaller. The cloak is trimmed down the front, as shown in Fig. 20, the trimming be- coming wider, and rounded off at the end. The cape is ornamented all round, and so is the collar. The cloak may be of grey, scarlet, crim- son, or blue cashmere, and the trimming of sarcenet, either white or of the same colour as the cloak, lined with a little wadding, and quilted. The wadding is. tacked to the silk, and the quilting done, the silk being shaped and the breadths joined be- fore it is applied to. the cloak. In using a sewing - machine keep the wadding up- permost. Fig. 22. offers apretty design for a , baby’s cloak; the edges, scalloped and pointed, and trimmed with a small tassel at every point. It is decidedly best to buy the baby’s hood. The cap worn under the hood is a caul with a full lace edge. The lace must be removed to wash it, and requilted each time. A boy’s hood is distinguished from a girl's by a rosette. A hood as soft as possible is a better covering for a baby than any fancy kind of hat, however pretty it may look. The stiffness of a hat is unsuited to the tender softness of a baby’s head; neither is it any protection to the child. Caps are only worn under hoods, and not indoors. In Fig. 21, under the cloak, a pretty design is given for a handsome frock. It is made with two flounces and