CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 171 fourteen inches will be found a good distance, admitting of the joint being “neared,” towards the end of the cook- ing process. Fresh killed meat requires longer to roast than when “ hung.” Meat a little frozen should be put into cold water till thawed, and will be improved by being hung in the kitchen over-night. This rule applies especially to Christmas joints, such as sirloin of beef, and turkeys of all sizes. Fat meat takes rather longer to roast than lean; about twenty minutes to half an hour extra on a large joint will be sufficient. The usual time allowed for roast- ing is from fifteen to twenty minutes to every pound, ac- cording to the strength of the fire and size of joint. Some cooks are partial to frothing their roasts, by using flour. A well-cooked joint needs no such addition to its natural appearance, the streaks of gravy which flow from the centre, when the joint is well done, being ornament sufficient. If any flour be used, it should be very lightly dusted on from the dredger, about half an hour before the joint is taken up. Made gravies are generally considered objectionable with roast meat. Every joint should be made to supply its gravy in its own trimmings. Pieces of flap, shanks of mutton, &c., which are not usually sent to table, should be put into a small saucepan, with some water or plain stock, when the joint is set down. These should be after- wards strained, and either poured over the burnt ends, or added to the gravy which has flowed from the joint into the dripping-pan. A pinch of burnt sugar will supply the browning. The best gravy of all for roasts is that which is cleared from the dripping saved from a former roast joint, to which may be added some boiling water and a little salt. Gravy should never be poured over a roast joint. It is a good plan to send the gravy to table in a sauce-boat, or tureen. Poultiy requires to be put down before a brisk fire, and should be previously lightly dredged with flour, and covered with clarified beef dripping. Hares will eat more tender if, for the first half hour of roasting, they are basted with salt and water in the proportion of a dessert-spoonful of salt to half a pint of water. When basted the above time, the salt and water should be removed, and fresh dripping laid in the pan. Some people recommend water and salt as a first basting for all joints. The mixture cer- tainly improves the colour of the roast, but we fancy at the cost of its flavour, the salt exciting a too hasty flow of the gravy. Now that the use of close stoves and kitcheners has become so general, the art of roasting in front of a fire is in danger of being lost. “ Roasting in the oven,” as the new method is termed, to be successful, requires a jar of boiling water to be put into the oven with the joint. The steam keeps the meat from becoming dry on the outside, and prevents the objectionable flavour of burnt fat. The water should not be removed till the joint is ready to brown. This practice holds good for all baking in the side ovens of the 07'dinary kitchen-range. Boiling, is a more simple process of cooking than roast- ing, and fails generally from being too hastily performed. A steady simmering is all that is necessary to maintain during this mode of cooking, for which purpose cinders mixed with a little coal, and the refuse from the trimmings of vegetables will be found to answer best. Boiling is not an economical method of dressing meat, if the liquor in which the joint is boiled is afterwards thrown away; therefore, not more water should be used for the purpose than will just cover the meat. When the water is near boiling, scum will rise to the , surface, and should be carefully removed as fast as it is formed. When the scum no longer rises, the pot may be set aside to simmer until the end. Wrapping meat in a cloth and boiling in milk or lemon-juice is often recommended to secure a whiteness of appearance, but no mode is so effectual as the patient removal of the scum itself which causes the unsightly aspect. From twenty minutes to half an hour per pound of meat, will not be found too long to boil a joint slowly ' and well. Cold water should be used for boiling, whenever the liquor is to be afterwards converted into soup. All kinds of fish with the skin on should be put into cold water, with about a dessert-spoonful of salt to a quart of water. Crimped cod, slices of salmon, and other cut fish, must be put into boiling water containing the above pro- portion of salt. The water should barely cover cut fish. A whole fish, weighing about four pounds, will take about half an hour to cook, after the water has come to a boil. Skimming is as necessary for fish when boiling, as for meat. As soon as the water has boiled, the cover of the fish-kettle should be tilted on one side, to prevent the skin of the fish from cracking. Some kinds of fresh-water fish are considered to be improved by boiling a few herbs in the water, such as sprigs of thyme, bay-leaf, &c., accord- ing to taste. Frying, being an expeditious mode of cooking, is in general favour with inferior cooks, but, if carefully per- formed, is both economical and wholesome. Of all modes of cooking, however, none are so liable to prove unsatis- factory as that of frying, unless the nicest discernment is exercised as to what articles will fry well, or not. The chief drawback to success in this branch of cookery, in England, is the shape of the ordinary frying-pan. Although one is constantly told in cookery books that “ frying is simply boiling in fat,” the vessel in which the process is usually performed precludes the possibility of complete immersion. In France, where frying is most successfully practised, the frying-pan is generally from seven to eight inches deep, rendering the first principle of the art easy to be carried out. Too little fat, insufficient heat, and want of careful preparation, are apt to make fried dishes in English households wasteful and indigestible. Before putting whatever is to be fried into the pan, sufficient fat should, if possible, be put into the vessel to cover the article. The pan should be scrupulously clean. If there is any doubt upon this score, it is best to melt a little fat in it over the fire, and wipe the pan out with the fat, which should afterwards be put aside. The great art of good frying is to know when the fat is hot enough. This may be ascertained by sprinkling a few drops of cold water into the fat when supposed to be nearly boiling. If the water hisses, the fat is hot enough. A piece of bread dipped in hot fat will be the best test as to whether it is over-heated or not. If the bread just browns, the fat will do ; if it blackens, the fat should be thrown away, as it will destroy whatever is put in it. It is essential to a good colour of fried food that the articles should be perfectly dry. The only exception to having things perfectly dry before frying is parsley, which, to look green and crisp, should be shaken through cold water immediately before it is plunged into the pan. Lard is excellent for frying fish, and, if not burnt, may serve for several times. Beef and mutton dripping are better for meat. Oil is much used by foreigners, but if not of the finest quality gives a disagreeable flavour to viands. Butter is the. least desirable of all fats for the purpose, on account of the salt and water in it; and it has besides a disposition to blacken, unless great skill be used. Broiling is a favourite mode of English cookery, and is especially adapted to our taste for plain meat. In order to broil successfully the gridiron must be perfectly clean. It should previously to being used be heated over the fire, and wiped between the bars with mutton or beef suet, or fat. A clear fire is needful, but not necessarily a large one. The gridiron should be raised slightly at the back. A good cook will never leave the fire when broiling is in progress, the chief art being to keep the meat constantly turned in order to prevent the pieces from settling. Forks