CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 317 the purpose of making the clay adhere. This being done, begin roughly to build up the clay upon it, till the general forms of the model correspond with those of the cast. And here it will be well to define the essential differences of procedure in the arts of carving and modelling. The carver cuts down through his material till he reaches the required form ; the modeller, on the contrary, builds up to it. This the beginner will do well to bear in mind ; lie must not place a great mass of clay on his model and then cut it into shape—that would be carving ; but, in roughing out, keep his work somewhat smaller and thinner than he intends it eventually to be, and reach the final form by laying on small portions of clay wherever they are required, and then smoothing them down ; continuing the process till the model in • every part becomes an exact copy of the plaster cast. This should be done, as far as is practicable, with the thumb and finger, and by preference with the thumb. On the smaller parts, such as the mouth, nostrils, and eyes, he will be obliged to use his tools ; but where he can he should use those which most nearly resemble thumbs in shape, and should proceed with them in the manner before recommended, that is by laying on and smooth- ing down. Scraping and pushing in the clay will some times be neces- sary ; but they should always be avoided if possi- ble. The form having been at- tained, it will be necessary to give a good surface to the whole. After long practice this can be done almost entirely by the thumb; but the beginner will require some mechanical aid. Let him take a small piece of a coarse cotton stocking (which will have a kind of ribbed texture), wet it slightly, wrap it round his thumb, and pass it firmly over the clay; the result will be a generally smooth surface, but marked with ribs from the texture of the stocking. To remove these marks the sponge must be made damp but not wet, and dabbed gently and regularly over the model. The smaller parts, which cannot well be got at in these processes, will only remain to be finished. They will look hard and crude from the tools, and must be softened down with the hog-hair and camel-hair brushes ; the mask will then be completed. In the earlier operations it will be well to keep the model almost as mmist as the clay before use ; later, as the work is nearly finished, it should be allowed to become a little harder, but it should never become very hard. Whenever necessary, water may be sprinkled on with the sponge ; and between the intervals of work the model should be covered with a wet cloth ; if it is left for many successive days, it should also be wrapped in a piece of oil-cloth. Some may imagine that, for a first attempt, the subject we have suggested is too difficult; but years of experi- ence in the practical teaching of modelling have con- vinced us that this is not the case, the forms, although refined and beautiful, being simple and readily understood. THE HOUSE.—IV. WATER SUPPLY {continued from p. 258). The materials from which water-cisterns are made vary according to the means, requirements, and fancy of those who employ them—from the humble and unpretending barrel of the cottager to the costly iron tank of the manu- facturer or theatrical lessee—and there are ample reasons why different materials and forms of construction should be had recourse to. Cisterns may be placed at the top of a building, and so arranged that a large body of water may, in case of accident from fire, be poured rapidly and forcibly downward. In such a case as this it is highly necessary that great strength, combined with comparative lightness and facility of attachment, should be possessed by the arrangement. Galvanised sheet-iron, angled and girdered, is perhaps the best material that could be em- ployed. It not unfrequently happens that a cavity excavated in the earth beneath some back-kitchen floor is made use of as a chamber for the spring-up of water. In such a situation as this, iron would be inapplicable, and it is therefore usual to employ brickwork evenly covered with Roman ce- ment. It is a very common custom to place cisterns of mo- derate capacity on the outside of dwelling- houses, where they are mount- ed on brickwork supports, and protected from the intrusion of foreign sub- stances by a small roof. This is probably the most common form of cistern used in this coun- try ; and, without question, the best material for its construction is cut and planed slate, as produced at the Delabole and some other of our great slate quarries. So admirably is this stone adapted for use in the arts, that it is worked with the greatest ease with the saw, plane, chisel, and drill. Huge planks—as they may be called—of clean blue slate are first reduced to the required size and thickness by saws and planes driven by engine-power. They are then measured, ruled, grooved at the edges, fitted together with rods, which are nutted and screwed at their ends. These bars pass through holes, drilled for their reception, outside the joining groove or rabbet, thus admitting of the five pieces constituting the cistern (viz., the two sides, two ends, and bottom) being either put together or taken apart by the use of a common nut-spanner. Every cistern of this kind has a match-mark cut on each of its pieces, and the contents in gallons painted on the outside. Lead cisterns we have already referred to as being highly objectionable as reservoirs for the reception of water in- tended for either drinking or culinary purposes. As a lining for a closet-cistern, or in situations where rain-water is stored up for washing, gardening, or general cleaning-up purposes, lead answers well enough. Do not, however, allow water so collected on any pretence to be either made use of in the kitchen, or given to horses, cattle, poultry, or dogs. When barrels are used to contain water intended for general household use, they should be first well scraped