lAO POULTRY. very severe weather, no further shelter is required even at night. During the day the hen is kept in the outer compart- ment, the chickens having liberty, and the food and water being placed outside ; whilst at night she is put in the inner portion of the coop, and a piece of canvas or sacking hung over the bars of the outer half. If the top be glazed, a little food and the water vessel may be placed in the outer compartment at night, and the chicks will be able to run out and feed early in the morning, being prevented by the canvas from going out into the cold air. It will be only needful to remove the coop every two days for a few minutes, to take away the tainted earth and replace it with fresh. There should, if possible, be a grass-plot in front of the shed, the floor of which should be covered with dry loose dust or earth. Under such a shed, chickens will thrive well ; but if such cannot be obtained, sufficient shelter during ordinary breeding seasons may be obtained by the use of a well- made board coop, with a gabled roof covered with felt. This coop should be open in front only, and be two feet six or two feet three inches square. At night let a thick canvas wrapper be hung over the front. The ordinary basket coop is only fit to be used in perfectly fine weather, when it is convenient to place it on a lawn. Some straw, weighted by a stone, or other covering, should, however, be placed on the top, to give shelter from the mid-day sun. Chickens should always, if possible, be cooped near grass. No single circumstance is so conducive to health, | size, and vigour, supposing them to be decently well cared for, as even a small grass run. Absolute cleanli- ness is also essential, even more than for grown fowls; and the reason why difficulty is often experienced in rearing large numbers is, that the ground becomes so tainted with their excrement. The coop should there- fore either be moved to a fresh place every day, or the dry earth under be carefully removed. A very good plan, and one we have found in a limited space to answer re- markably well, is to have a wooden gable-roofed coop made with a wooden bottom, and to cover this an inch deep with perfectly dry earth, or fine sifted ashes. The ashes are renewed every evening in five minutes, and form a nice warm bed for the chicks, clean and sweet, and much better than straw. Cats sometimes make sad inroads on the broods. If this nuisance is feared, it is well to confine the coveted prey while young within a wii'e-covered run. And the best way of forming such a run, is to stretch some inch- mesh wire-netting, two feet wide, upon a light wooden frame, so as to form two wire hurdles, two feet wide and about six feet long, with another three feet long. These are easily lashed together with string to form a run six feet by three, and may be covered by a similar hurdle of two- inch mesh three feet wide, as represented on the preceding page (Fig. lo). In such a run all animal depredations may be defied, and in any case we should recommend its use until the chicks are a fortnight old ; it saves a world of trouble and anxiety, and prevents the brood wandering and getting over-tired. By having an assortment of such hurdles, portable runs can be constructed in a few minutes of any extent required, and will be found of great advan- tage until the broods are strong. The hen may also be given her liberty within the prescribed bounds. With regard to feeding, if the question be asked what is the best food for chickens, irrespective of price, the answer must decidedly be oatmeal. After the first meal of bread-crumbs and egg, no food is equal to it, if coarsely ground, and only moistened so much as to remain crumbly. The price of oatmeal is, however, so high as to forbid its use in general, except for valuable broods ; but we should still advise it for the first week, in order to lay a good foundation. It may be moistened either with water or milk, but in the latter case only sufficient must be mixed for each feeding, as it will turn sour within an hour in the sun, and in that condition is very injurious to the chickens. For the first three or four days the yolk of an egg boiled hard should also be chopped up small, and daily given to each dozen chicks ; and when this is discon - tinued, a little cooked meat, minced fine, should be given once a day till they are about three weeks old. The cost of this will be inappreciable, as a piece the size of a good walnut is sufficient for a whole brood, and the chickens will have more constitution and fledge better than if no animal food is supplied. Food must be given very often. For the first week every hour is not too much, though less will do ; the next three weeks, every two hours ; from one to two months old, every three hours ; and after that, three times a day will be sufficient. To feed very often, giving just enough fresh food to be entirely eaten each time, is the one great secret of getting fine birds. If the meals are fewer, and food is left, it gets sour, the chicks do not like it, and will not take as much as they ought to have. After the first week, the oatmeal can be changed for cheaper food. We can well recommend any of the follow- ing, and it is best to change from one to another, say about every fortnight. An equal mixture of “ sharps " and barley-meal, or of “sharps” and buckwheat meal, or bran and Indian meal; or of bran, oatmeal, and Indian I meal. The last our own chickens like best of all, and I as the cheap bran balances the oatmeal, it is not a dear food, and the chicks will grow upon it rapidly. Potatoes mashed with bran are also most excellent food for a change. The above will form the staple food, but after a day or two some grain should be given in addition. Groats chopped up with a knife are excellent ; so is crushed wheat or bruised oats. Chickens seem to prefer groats to anything, but it is not equal to meal as a permanent diet. They are also fond of buckwheat. A little of either the one or the other should, however, be given once or twice a day, and in particular should form the last meal at night, for the reasons already given. Bread sopped in water is the worst possible food for chickens, causing weakness and general diarrhoea. With milk it is better, but not equal to meal. Green food is even more necessary to chickens than to adult fowls. Whilst very young, it is best to cut some grass into very small morsels for them with a pair of scissors ; afterwards they will crop it for themselves, if allowed. Should there be no grass available, cabbage or lettuce-leaves must be regularly given—minced small. In winter or very early spring the chickens must, in addition to the above feeding, have more stimulating diet. Some underdone meat or egg should be continued regu- larly, and it is generally necessary to give also, two or three times a day, some stale bread soaked in ale. They should also be fed about eight or nine o’clock, by candle- light, and early in the morning. In no other way can Dorkings or Spanish be successfully reared in an in- clement season, though the hardier breeds will often get along very well with the ordinary feeding. Ale and meat, with liberal feeding otherwise, will rear chickens at the coldest seasons ; and the extra cost is more than met by the extra prices then obtained in the market. But shelter they must have ; and those who have not at command a large outhouse or shed to keep them in while tender, should not attempt to raise winter or early spring chickens —if they do, the result will only be disappointment and loss. The broods should only be let out on the open gravel or grass in bright, or at least clear dry weather. At the age of four months thexhickens, if of the larger breeds, should be grown enough for the table; and if they have been well fed, and come of good stock, they will be. For ourselves, we say, let them be eaten as they are—they