!l I! j! [inches wide longcloth (actual measure) will make six. Each one is fifteen and a half inches long, and sixteen 1 wide at the bottom. Cut the shape like Fig. 72, that is, in jthe same way at the top as the short-coating chemise, but a little more sloped at the waist. The sleeves, too, ; are cut as before, but measure eight inches long when (, cut out like Fig. 61, which, of course, is double, and I'is reduced to four before it is inserted in the form of a ^ sleeve. The apparent gaps between the shoulders and ^ flaps are only the result of the narrow hem. Run and ifell the side seams, A to B, and hem the bottom half an inch wide. Run and fell the sleeve together, and also into } the armhole. Turn down and stitch the edge of the 5 sleeve and trim it with lace—a good but fine tape-lace serves the purpose. Our readers must not confound the tape-lace with tape trimming, which is quite another thing. 237 ming both sides all the way to the edge. The armhole of the shirt must next be finished :—Take a strip of long- cloth, cut down, not across, the material, two inches wide; put it on the sleeve inside at the dotted line, A to B and E, in Fig. 69, running it first to the edge of the hole, turning it over, and hemming it down finely; afterwards stitch the edge of the armhole marked by the dotted line, A to B, on the other side of the diagram. Fig. 69. Small children may not need such large armholes or sleeves, and three inches doubled or six long in the cutting will suffice. The next thing is the stay body, which may be made alike for boys and girls. The bodice is generally seven or eight inches deep and twenty-four long, and the backs wrap over ; some children, however, are small, and do not take them larger than the short coat bodies, five inches deep and twenty-two long. These are made of jean, lined with soft CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. Tape trimmings are very pretty to look at, but do not get up easily. Figure 69 shows the shape of a shirt for a little boy of the same age; it takes the same quantity of material as the girl’s chemise; it is sixteen inches wide all the way down. Cut it with the longcloth double on the shoulders, A A; leave the sides open as far as B B (three inches and three-quarters or four inches); run and fell the rest of the seam to D D, and leave it open again from D D to c C at each side. Let in a little three-cornered gusset at F, each side (e to F shows the side of the shirt). The gusset is double, run and felled in very narrowly and neatly, and stitched across the double edge, where a line may be noticed; then hem very neatly, and as narrowly as pos- sible, each side of the open seam from d to F; afterwards hem the bottom of the shirt half an inch wide. Hem round the flaps and shoulders very fine, button-hole the corners, and sew on tapes long enough to tie under the arms. Do not tie these so as to confine the garment to the child, but loosely, merely to keep down the flaps. Tapes are sewn on quite half an inch down the flap, hem- linen, and run together the short way with cords. Tack jean and linen together, when cut out, all round with coloured cotton, and then tack the places to be run be- tween the cords with another colour; pull out the first coloured cotton, that fixes jean and linen together, as it is not now needed, and is in the way of running the cords between the tacking. Put in the first cord with a bodkin; finely run with white cotton over the tacking; put in another cord, and run the next line, and so on till all the cord is in; then cut it even at the edges and bind the body all round with twilled binding. Make the straps half an inch wide, of jean and linen, bound, and sew them on. There are various ways of running the bodies. Fig. 64 is regularly corded close together; Fig. 57 in alternate groups of three cords and a space. Either tapes or buttons may be used to fasten the body, but tapes are best, as other buttons must be sewn on, as shown by four a’s, both in Figs. 64 and 57- The lower and smaller row of these is for the drawers; the upper for the flannel petticoat. When the drawers or petticoat are new and full long, place these buttons higher up as the garments get short for the child,