233 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. to do its work, and can be let out as soon as it has done it. This apparatus is usually placed near the main chimney, but a pipe from it can be carried outside through a hole in a wall or a window. For outdoor cooking, as at picnics or on exploring parties, we recommend either of the r/- chands or camp-stoves represented, espe- cially Fig. 7. When of small size. Fig. 8, they must burn charcoal; if of larger dimensions, coal and coke will do. They are also useful in houses which have a back yard or court, when only a few small things are to be cooked, and it is wished to avoid lighting the kitchen fire, as in unusually hot and oppressive weather. They will heat water for tea or coffee, boil eggs, warm up soups or stews, fry chops, sausages, or omelettes, make sauces, and render good service by supplementing a cold dinner with sundry hot things. And, this being per- formed in the open air, all heat, smoke, and smell are avoided in- doors. Toasting is akin to roast- ing,andmaybe done (as with cheese and other articles that melt) in a Dutch oven. Fig. 5, or with a fork. Large forks should not be admit- ted into mo- dern kitchens, where they only do mischief. Certainly, meat that is being boiled for broth or soup, may be pricked and its gravy let out as much as the cook pleases; but she will obtain her end better by having her soup, meat, and bones well divided at the butcheFs, into pieces small enough for the boiling water to exert its action throughout their substance. But meat, fowls, or vege- tables, that are to be served as “boils” in distinction to “ roasts,” should never be pierced with a fork or any other culinary utensil, until they ai'e carved in their dish at table. The gravy which runs from them then, and the juiciness of the meat, will show the difference of their treatment. Small joints, fowls, whole cabbages or cauliflowers, &c., may easily be removed from the boiler by a broad, flat ladle, pierced with holes, in one hand, and a long-handled kitchen spoon in the other. Large joints of salt beef, legs of mutton, turkeys, calves’ heads, &c., should be tied with broad tape before putting in to boil. This will not only keep them in shape, but aid in getting them out of the boiler (perhaps with the help of an assistant), neat and entire, without receiving a puncture. There is the toasting-fork, of which the cook may be allowed more than one, with handles of different lengths, to keep the fire at its distance on all occasions. There are toasting-forks with telescopic handles, composed of joints slipping one into the other ; but they are rather for breakfast- room than for kitchen use. The com- mon cheap toasting-forks made of iron wire have only three prongs, whose insufficient hold often lets the half-done slice fall into the cinders—an accident which is still more vexatious when the object toasted is a kidney, a rasher of bacon, or a slice of underdone meat. A five-pronged fork, like that in the woodcut. Fig. 6, will hold the toast more securely. The bend in the handle allows it to be toasted by the side of, instead of in front of the fire. A pastry oven, heate':’. with charcoal, is useful in country houses not within easy reach of the pastry-cook or confectioner. Amongst the articles occa- sionally used in a kitchen, a gatifrier, or iron for mak- ing gaufres, or wafers, may be reckoned. There may even be two irons; one for making thick gaufres, resembling pancakes in quality, the other for wafers proper. Gaufre tongs are made of cast iron. Any iron- monger doing business with France could easily procure them, which might be cheaper than ordering them to be made here. The cook must have nut- crackers to prepare almonds and walnuts for dessert; lob- ster and crab - crackers for breaking the claws of those crustaceans; also a lemon- squeezer, a similar instru- ment, only made of wood, for pressing the greatest possible quantity of juice out of oranges and lemons. The inside of the squeezer has an oval hollow to keep the fruit under pressure from slipping aside. To have clear jellies, either savoury or sweet, a flannel jellybag is indispensable. Instead of being hung on a peg in the wall, or on the back of a chair, it is better put to drain on a three-footed stand, with a support beneath to hold the vessel which receives the liquid as it strains away. We have shown this in Fig. i. One, two, or three shallow saucepans, made of stout