CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 143 begins generally to show itself, and affords a golden opportunity for conveying right impressions to the plastic infant mind. The first objects a child takes notice of are those which are employed in supplying its personal wants. Thus the sight of a feeding-bottle will generally set a babe crying for food. In like manner it is a good plan to appropriate certain coverings to the use of an infant when “ sleeping-time ” is in question. The writer has known a gaily-coloured knitted rug set the tiny inmates of a nursery yawning, from the sheer associa- tions the familiar wrapper suggested. Each infant had been in turn enveloped in that rug preparatory to going to sleep, and they had not a thought of resisting its in- fluence. By these and similar appeals to the infant mind, time is gained in imparting true principles of obedience, which might be too long delayed, if deferred till the age of more advanced reason. The habit of taking a mid-day nap may be advan- tageously observed till the age of three or four years has been attained. Even if the child be not sleepy it is ad- visable to let it lie in its cot for a certain time after having taken exercise, and before dinner. If any induce- ment to lie down be needed, there is no reason why a few toys or a picture-book should not be allowed in bed. Pretending to hush a doll to sleep, for instance, will often send the child itself to sleep, and is as good a ruse as can be adopted. Before putting the inmates of a nursery to bed, the room should be darkened, and the nurse should betake herself, if possible, to an adjoining room for any occupa- tion she may have to fulfil. Care is needed not to arouse a child suddenly from its slumbers. Allow it, on all occasions, to waken of its own accord. A notion is prevalent that much sleeping by day lessens the power of sleeping by night-; but this is an error. As a general rule, the more a child sleeps the more it wants to sleep. Wakefulness is generally caused by over-fatigue and excitement, and is a positively painful state to the sensitive organism of a young child. This description of suffering admits of no alleviation but from sleep ; repri- mands and additional food do but increase the sufferer’s torment. It ought not to be necessary to point out the danger of giving narcotics to young children. But so long as such remedies are recommended as “teething powders,” &c., we must not be supposed to ignore the fact that the true nature of such drugs is, not to facilitate the process of cutting teeth, but to lull restless infants into an unnatural sleep. Long before any disturbance of a child’s health is likely to occur from teething, these compounds are apt to be administered simply to secure a quiet night’s rest. The restlessness complained of arises, nine times out of ten, from flatulence and indigestion. The general ques- tion of teething has been treated in our papers on Domestic Medicine (seepage 114) and further informa- tion will be found in our papers on Domestic Surgery. A fit of sleeplessness may, in very many instances, be terminated by wrapping the infant in a warm covering, and exercising it in an apartment of lower temperature than the nursery. In more advanced childhood than we have hitherto spoken of, the importance of sleep is undiminished, and should be observed with regularity. No invariable rule can be laid down for general observance, but most chil- dren between the ages of four and seven years require, at least, twelve hours’ sleep. Ten hours are supposed to be needful for schoolboys, and eight for adults. Few children under ten years of age can be kept out of their beds after seven o’clock without injury to their health. When once awake in the morning, they should be accus- tomed to rise without delay. Most parents go to their children’s rooms before re- tiring to rest themselves. The chief observation to make on these visits is, whether the little ones be sufficiently covered, and that no draughts be felt from open windows and doors. In the winter time, a few hours after having been in bed, most young children require a little additional covering, owing to the body having lost some of its temperature during sleep. Another precaution to be taken is, that the children’s heads be sufficiently raised to prevent their breathing the air emitted from their lungs. This habit, if not necessarily fatal, is certainly liable to lay the seeds of a consumptive state, and to produce an impaired constitution. A single small pillow is generally sufficient for raising a child’s head. One blanket should always be placed with the selvage ends across the bed, in order to allow plenty to turn in under the mattress. Children generally sleep more comfortably, and suffer less from cold feet, if their bedding be slightly raised at the foot. • HINTS ON CARVING.—IV. Ha7n.—A ham is one of those dishes which one is con- stantly requested to dispense, even when not occupying the important post of carver. It is usual to commence cutting beyond the knuckle, but not quite in the centre, just where the ham begins to grow thicker, and to cut it across, leaning downwards, so as gradually to en- croach upon the fat, till the slice slopes very much from the fat to the bone. Slice after slice is cut off in this way till the ham is finished. The thinner the meat can be cut the better it is considered. It may be remarked that the ham is brought to table with that part uppermost which in a leg of mutton is called the back. A trimming is always to be put on round the knuckle. In the diagram. Fig. 16, the first cut of the ham is shown from A to B. It is to be observed that the slices are not cut through to the bone, but rather shaved off the ham. always bearing towards the fat. There is another method of serving this joint, which some people who like the hock, prefer. This is man- aged by taking off several thin slices at A to B, in Fig. 17, and carving the rest of the ham lengthwise from D to c, also thin. Neck of Mutton.-—First divide the short bones from the long, by cutting quite through them, across the joint, at the dotted line A to B, Fig. 14. Then insert the knife at C, plunge it down, feel the joint, press it in, turn it over, as you do the leg of a fowl, to snap it, and then cut the chop off. Cut one of the small bones and serve with each chop. It is usual to cut two chops, and add two small bones to each helping, not previously severing them, but removing them from the joint together. If loin and neck of mutton are not very well jointed before they are cooked, they can never be properly carved at table, and there is a great deal of waste in consequence. Butchers must be instructed to separate the bones well. The cook also should further divide them, before dressing. Loin of Mutton is generally cut through between every two chops, which are served together. Neck of Veal.—A neck of veal cannot be treated like a neck of mutton, for the chops it yields are far too large to serve entire. Therefore, first divide the small bones by cutting through (Fig. 15, from A to b), as with the neck of mutton, and then take off slanting,slices from D to C, from the bones, cutting down to them. Loin of Veal.—With a loin of veal a slice of toast is sent to table, on a small dish. Turn over the loin, and cut out the kidney, with the surrounding fat, and place it