175 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. School of Cookery, Exhibition Road, South Kensington, for eight or ten weeks’ instruction, is ;i^5. The British Ladies’ Female Emigrant Society has sixteen permanent matrons on its list for New Zealand ships, who receive about ^30 for each voyage, and los. 6d. a week when waiting for a ship. The office is 23, Fitzroy Square, W. The duties are not menial, but a good deal of nursing sometimes falls to a matron’s lot. The post of Stewardess on large vessels is also well paid, and is a comfortable post for the upper class of domestic servants. It is, however, usually filled—particularly on Atlantic ships—by widows of mates, third officers, and sometimes captains of small vessels ; and many of these poor women have large families to support. The missionary and educational work in India, China, Africa, the Levant, and other parts of the world, offers avast and most interesting field to young women of intelligence, earnest religious opinions, and some enterprise, who have few home ties, and are quick at adapting themselves to new conditions of life. A great qualification is, of course, sound health, and also some aptitude for learning languages. In India the work is divided into three branches—viz,, teaching in schools ; giving instruction to native ladies in their own apartments, called Zenanas ; and lastly, the practice of medicine, by those who are duly qualified. For the first branch, school-mistresses of some little experience and pupil teachers are required, with some knowledge of music and the infant-school system. For the Zenana teaching, tact, good temper, and pleasant conciliating manners, are needful for successful intercourse with the native ladies. A thorough acquaintance with all kinds of needlework is very acceptable to the poor shut-up in- mates, and offers a diversion in their monotonous life. Communications on the subject may be addressed to the Secretaries of the following Societies :—The Indian Female Normal School and Instruction Society, Major Black, 136, Leadenhall Street, E.C.; the Society for Promoting Female Education in the East, Miss Webb, 267, Vauxhall Bridge Road, S.W.; English Mission School, Grand Cairo, Miss M. Whateley, 267, Vauxhall Bridge Road, S.W.; the Ladies’ Association of the Society for the Propaga- tion of the Gospel, Miss Bullock, 19, Delahay Street, S.W. ; and many other similar societies, the addresses of which may be obtained in the London Directory, in connection with the Presbyterian and Church of Scotland Missionary Societies. The Ladies’ Sanitary Association, 22, Berners Street; the National Health Society, 44, Berners Street; and various other societies, give occasional employment to persons as Lecturers on Physiology, Hygiene, and Domestic Economy; and a moderate remuneration may be earned by those thoroughly at home on the subject-matters of the lectures. This cannot, however, be considered a permanent employ- ment, and to be supporting would have to be followed in conjunction with some other pursuit. The position of Secretary to the various Institutions, more or less connected with women’s affairs, which have lately arisen, has opened a new employment to highly- qualified persons, whose salaries vary from to ^200 per annum, in some cases including board and lodging. The power of arranging and conducting committee meetings, a knowledge of book-keeping, and strict business habits, in addition to tact, self-possession, and punctuality, are the requirements for the post. The situations of Lady Housekeepers and Companions comprise a vast number of offices, on which only sug- gestions can be made. They include Housekeepers at Judges’ Lodgings, Dames’ Houses at Eton, Boys’ Schools and Colleges, and in Public Offices. In addition to these are private situations as companions, housekeepers, chape- rones, persons having the care of invalids, and travelling companions or lady couriers. These posts are generally overstocked, in consequence of the small amount of qualification required, except the last, which needs some acquaintance with foreign languages and continental travel. In the other positions nothing definite is neces- sary. The last post of superintendence we shall notice is one which has been lately suggested, of Nursery Super- intendent. The practice of engaging ladies as head nurses in large establishments is much on the increase, and even in small ones many mothers are thankfully acknowledging the benefit of an educated, intelligent, and refined help in bringing up their children. In India especially this plan has met with warm encouragement, Indian residents being only too delighted to treat the lady as an equal, and to be relieved from the infinite anxiety of trusting native servants to the extent they are compelled to do at present. THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC.—X. BLINDS. Fig. 60 shows the commonest form of blind—the com- mon roller blind. It is almost too well known to need description. The roller. A, is made from a square strip of one and a quarter or one and a half inch wood, with the corners planed off until the piece is octagonal. On one end, usually the right hand, is fasened a little grooved wheel, B, and through the centre of both, the pivot, c, a piece of stout iron or steel wire, is driven. At the other end of the roller a similar pivot is driven through a sort of flange, D, which is just to keep the blind from running over the end. The pivots at each end are supported in two brackets, of hard wood or metal, something like E F, one having only a hole, as F, through it, the other a hole and an oblique cut from the top, into which to drop the pulley-end pivot, after the other pivot has been thrust into the hole F. Over the pulley B an endless cord, G, runs, which cord also runs round the pulley H, which may be fastened in any convenient position on the side of the window-frame. This pulley is in a small brass frame, which works in the slide, I, the back of which is formed into steps like a ratchet. Into this a spring on the frame of H catches, and in such a manner as to allow the frame to slide downwards only. The object of this movement is the tightening of the cord, G, in order to keep the blind wherever it is wanted. The material of which the blind is composed is tacked to the wooden roller, and in a wide hem at the bottom a lath is slipped, and a tassel and cord are fastened to the middle with a screw-ring, for the convenience of pulling the blind down. This form of blind, however, has many disadvan- tages ; for instance, as its firmness is dependent on friction entirely, it is subjected to an unusual amount of strain at its working parts, which working parts are often of too soft a material and of too hasty a manufacture. The pro- cess of pulling up is also tedious and inconvenient, the edges of the slide, 1, often scratching the fingers. It is not wonderful, therefore, that many devices have been thought of and patented to remedy these evils. We illustrate one of these plans, not as being superior to many we have seen, but simply to show the principle on which they are most of them based, it being quite impossible to mention all. Fig. 61 shows a front view of this arrangement. The frame, A, is screwed on to the window-frame, in the same position as the wood brackets before mentioned, and has in its edge a hole at C, to carry the blind pivot. So far, there is no material difference. The roller is also just the same, but at each end it is let into a hollow iron end, which terminates in a pivot fitting into the hole C. On the end of this box is a sort of drum, D, and further out still a rachet-wheel, E (Figs. 62 and 63). Round the edge of this rachet-wheel is found a sort of band of brass, which is hinged to the bracket. A, at F, and in this band