CHILDREN’S DRESS. Ii8 thirty parts.] Then hem the backs (k and K in Fig. 37) a quarter of an inch deep. Next hem all along the top, shoulder-straps included, a quarter of an inch deep, and run the narrowest tape in for a band. Cut two strips of long-cloth (down the material) half an inch wide and nineteen inches long. Gather the waist of the body a little at each side of the back and in the centre of the front, as shown in Fig. 37, the limit of the gathers marked by four o’s. Measure the strips just cut exactly, and run it to the body on the wrong side, and turn it over. J oin the other end of the band to the gathers of the skirt. The second band strip is used to line this, turning it down at both edges, and hemming it on the wrong side, taking care not to let the stitches show through on the right side. This completes the petticoat. The second or cheaper petticoat bodice is made like a dress body, and the^ same illustration will serve for both. Take a piece of long-cloth six and a half inches wide and thirteen inches long, double it exactly in half, the short way, and cut out the front of the bodice like Fig. 30, the fold coming in the centre, at M. Pencil the shape on the stuff, before cutting it out, into a one inch wide band, marked at P, which is put on afterwards, and with ends. Next take long-cloth eight inches wide and fourteen long, double it the narrow way, the fold at R, and cut it the shape illustrated by Fig. 33, afterwards cut it in half at R, as the back is in two pieces. The two back pieces and the front will resemble Fig. 36. Join the pieces together, T to T, running and felling the seam from the arm-hole to the waist. Do the same at the other side, at U and u. Then also run and fell the shoulders, v to v and w to w. Cut a strip band half an inch wide, and turn it down to make a narrow false hem round the top, in which a tape must be run. Hem the arm-hole, and let the waist into a band. A petticoat bodice needs no sleeves. Whip the skirt instead of gathering it, and sew it to the bodice when the bodice itself is quite completed. Whipping is done by rolling the edge of the calico very finely between the fingers, and sewing over the roll in rather long stitches, but such as will draw up into fine gathers. The rolling is done piece by piece as you sew it along. It gives less trouble to turn down about a quarter of an inch of the material, instead of rolling it, but it is less neat. Some persons stroke the gathers down with the point of the needle, which gives a regular appearance, but it is better not to do this to fine muslin, because it helps to wear out the fabric. We have already recommended fine dimity for the six gowns of the I.ayettej but they can be made of plain cam- bric muslin, at is. 6d. a yard. About three yards will be wanted for each frock. There are two breadths in each skirt, a yard and a quarter long, the body is nearly a quarter of a yard deep, and the sleeves and band cut into another quarter width-ways. Eighteen yards will there- fore be wanted for six frocks. The addition of embroidery is entirely optional, except round the top and sleeves, where a little fancy work cannot be dispensed with. The embroidery used for the purpose should be very narrow. A simple scallop and dot is pretty enough. To make the skirt, cut two breadths (these should not be less and need not be more than twenty-six inches wide), each breadth a yard and a quarter long. Run and fell them together with as narrow a turning as possible, and very fine cotton and small stitches. Hem the bottom, and reduce the length of the skirt to thirty-six inches (that is, a yard) by making a number of tucks. The hem must be of the same width as the tucks. There are different ways of tucking the skirts, which give variety to the plainest frocks. We will describe two or three ways. First, a half-inch wide hem, and a number of half-inch wide tucks, each half an inch apart. Second, half-inch hem and half-inch tucks, each one inch apart. Third, half-inch hem and one tuck, half an inch apart. Leave two inches, and make two more tucks, half an inch apart. Leave two inches again, and repeat, making the tucks in the same way till you have sufficient. Fourth, a number of tucks the sixteenth of an inch wide, with the same space between each, and the hem to correspond. Fifth, a hem and two tucks the sixteenth of an inch wide, and the same space between ; miss half an inch, three tucks again ; miss another half-inch, and repeat once more. Either of these patterns will look well with a single row of embroidery added at the bottom, but it is not necessary. Wide tucks may also be run in threes, with a wide space between. Sixth, an inch wide hem three quarter-inch tucks, each a quarter of an inch apart. Miss an inch, and make an inch wide tuck and three quarter-inch ones, a quarter of an inch apart. Repeat the tucking once or twice more in the same way. A plain body can be made with tucks to correspond, perpendicularly down the body. To make a tucked body, a piece of muslin eight inches wide and the whole length of the material should be cut and tucked across, com- mencing the tucks three inches from the end ; when the tucked piece measures four and a half inches from S to S in Fig. 35, allow three more inches, and cut it off. This piece resembles Fig. 35. Fold it in the centre, and care- fully pin it together ; then pencil and afterwards cut it to the shape of Fig. 30, having the folded part at M. The back should be made quite plain, and cut in two pieces, like Fig. 33 ; join it in the same way at the sides and shoulders, as shown in Fig. 36. Set the top into a quarter-wide band, the front of embroidery, or worked with dots or corals, which we will presently describe. The band for the top is made in two pieces; cut each half an inch wide, and allow for turning in. First run the embroidery to the band ; then lay the body on the table, the right side up, towards you. Put the band on it, the wrong side upwards, so that the right side of the band lays face to face with the right side of the body, as shown in Fig. 45, where the tucks on the wrong side of the band can be seen. Pin it, and run it to the top of the body, then turn it up, and you have the right side of both facing you. Line the band by running on the second strip of muslin. Run a tape in. Let the waist into an inch-wide band, made of embroidery or worked with coral or dots. The sleeve is cut on the cross, like Fig. 46, nine inches long and three and a half wide. Y Y is the piece for the hem, which is made after it has been run and felled together at z Z. Run and fell it into the arm-hole. The skirt must have a placket-hole made, and be drawn into gathers in the same way as the petticoat, and then sewn to the body. Fig. 41 shows a plain frock completed— the neck, waist, and sleeve edges set in bands worked with dots. To Work the Dots.—Fill a needle with rather coarse embroidery cotton; commence with a stitch, just as if you were about stitching a waistband. You have inserted your needle in the stuff thus—but do not draw it through —leave it so, as shown in Fig. 40 ; twist the cotton round it, close up to where it comes out of the stuff (the place is marked by the letter A); twist it a second time in the same way. Draw the needle through ; if the worsted cotton be not close up to the stuff, pull the thread, and set it with your fingers. Take a second stitch through the very same holes—B and A—and the dot is formed. When dots of graduated sizes are required, take a small stitch, and twist the cotton once, for the first size; a larger stitch, and twist the cotton twice, for the second ; a still larger, and twist it thrice, for a larger dot. Two stitches taken in the same place (from B to A) raise the work still more. Coral Stitch.—Coral stitch is-much used on the joins of embroidery insertions. It should be worked downwards, the thumb of the left hand keeping down the thread, while the needle is inserted slant-wise above the thread,