94 OCCUPATIONS ACCESSIBLE TO WOMEN. of ways, of which we give a list :—Designing (in all branches) carpets, lace, wall-papers, &c., or furniture and church-embroidery; Christmas cards and valentines ; colouring maps ; fan painting ; colouring photographs ; drawing and colouring from nature for books ; designs for silversmiths ; glass painting ; lithography ; coloured lithography ; drawing on wood ; heraldic designs ; paint- ing on china tiles, &c.; illuminations ; portrait painting; landscape painting; wood carving; engraving on wood, glass, or metal; modelling in clay; teaching, both public and private. The first branch on this list—designing—is a very remunerative employment, as a good design has a real market value in all trades; one wall-paper design bringing as much as ^5 5s. at times. In the Indian silk manufactories the designs are generally made by French- men, who get from 15s. to 30s. for each design. Tracing designs on silk and velvet, for the embroiderers to work from, for church decorations, is a well-paid branch of designing. Christmas cards and valentine colourers can earn in regular employment per week; some never reach this; and the highest pay we ever knew a colourist to receive was is. an hour. Almost every large art re- pository and fancy stationer’s establishment employs a designer for themselves. This situation is much sought after, as the work is permanent and the rate of pay fixed. In order to obtain employment it is necessary to get an introduction to a firm, or else to call with a specimen. The fashion of surrounding photographs in albums with coloured or etched designs was a very fortunate one for designers, as pretty series will often realise a-piece. They are then protected by being registered for the ex- clusive use of the purchasing firm. Painting on pottery has been much in fashion of late in England, and is a capital opening for women’s labour. Between twenty and thirty ladies were employed by Messrs. Minton previous to the destruction of their manu- factory by fire. Several other firms have also studios in London, and all of them employ female hands. There is also an Art Pottery Painting Association, composed only of ladies, where orders for work are taken, and lessons are given in the art. There are two processes in pottery painting—under- glaze painting, and overglaze painting—and special co- lours are necessary. These colours are so altered by the action of tlie fire that they are rarely the same when they come out as when they were put in. It needs, therefore, great experience to judge of the general effect of the work when it is burnt. Underglaze work cannot be eftaced by wear and tear of any sort; but overglaze painting, like that seen on china and porcelain, can. It can be produced much more cheaply also; and at a factory by nearly inartistic hands. Tile painting is another branch of art work, which at one time was very remunerative; but the market is already over-stocked, and the prices have become very low, excepting for very clever designs. The decoration of houses, furnishing, &c., is a new field, not long opened for women’s work. It requires much taste, special study, and a knowledge of architec- ture ancient and modern, and it includes the designing and painting of panels, tiles, and stained-glass windows, also of patterns for embroidery, and the arrangement of colours in rooms, so that they may harmonise. A know- ledge of the various styles of different centuries and epochs is needful; for it must be evident to all that in house decoration it would be most unsuitable to have the Elizabethan mixed with Gothic, or Renaissance with Jacobean. An office has been lately established in London by ladies for tracing the plans of architects and engineers, a new branch of art-work, which has been found a success- ful opening. Lady-apprentices must, however, give three months’ v/ork without wages, and even at the end of the first three months the earnings are but small; the induce- ments held out are not, therefore, veiy great. The School of Art Needlework, under royal patronage, has been very successful in opening a new field of exer- tion to women. The entrance-fee is ^5, and members are expected to adopt the art as a profession ; and must devote eight hours a day to the work at the school itself if required. They must also reside in or near London. The amount earned by workers is not as much as it was expected to be when the school was commenced. In this, as in everything industrial, excessive competition has lowered the prices. It is said that a skilful worker can earn ^2 a week; but in ordinary cases it is hardly possible to exceed 30s. Photography in all its branches is an art eminently suited to womanly fingers and taste. The most re- munerative part of it can be done at home—copying, enlarging, the preparation of transparencies on glass, and reducing micro-photography. There is one'great advan- tage in this kind of work, namely, that even at night it can be carried on with the aid of an ordinary lamp. Wood engraving is well adapted for women, and besides being agreeable, it is a most remunerative occupation. The tools are few, and the wooden blocks clean and easily carried about, so as to be ready to be taken up at any time. It is said, however, that it takes at least three years’ practice before sufficient skill is acquired to earn a competent livelihood. Drawing on waxed plates with an etching needle is another method of producing illustrations for printing with type, for books and newspapers. The workers must have sufficient pre- liminary knowledge to enable them to draw correctly in line. This form of art is called “ wax-etching,” and is very highly praised for the richness of effect of which it is capable. Great proficiency in it would, undoubtedly, earn high remuneration. A suggestion was made some time ago that etching on copper plates was a good employment for ladies ; but unless for persons already experienced in this labour, it is not considered suitable; the printing process being so expensive, besides other technical objections which exist. Women are employed at times by the Ordnance Office, to colour plans. The pay is about 30s. a week, and the plans can be taken to the worker’s home. The em- ployment is not, however, permanent; and is only re- quired at certain seasons. Before concluding this division of our subject we will gather up, from various sources, a few suggestions for the employment of women in art-work which may be useful to the reader. Modelling in clay and in wax, for medals, and medal- lions, and all kinds of silver-work, is a form of labour well suited to women. The designer and die-sinker for the mint in Stockholm is a lady, who is also famed for her skill in modelling. Designers for Swiss lace curtains, and muslin ones also, can obtain a fair remu- neration. Painting on stoneware is very easy, and re- quires no training. The wages are very fair, and the work can be carried on by young girls. 'Teachers in art night schools and Schools of Art can earn good inde- pendent salai'ies, and will find theirs a most comfortable position. In addition, there is a great demand at present for inlaid wood-work, and marqueterie panels would find a ready market. This is peculiarly a woman’s work—light and easy—only requiring a certain amount of taste and skill. In conclusion, it may, we thinkjae safely asserted, that art offers a very large field indeed to female labour, and the truth of our assertion is, perhaps, to a great extent, proved by the account we have given of the many divisions of art-work open to women.