154 DOMESTIC SURGERY. swimming, rising on the toes meanwhile, extending the body upwards and forwards. 5. Stand well upright, the elbows next the side, the arms hanging down, the palm turned outwai'ds (Fig. 27). Carry the arm from A to B, B to C, C to D, D to E, and back again. Head and Neck Exercises.—Stand with figure erect, the hands on the back of the hips. Then bend the head to the left four times, the same to the right, and then alternately, neither the face nor shoulders being twisted. Next bend the head forwards and backwards in the same order. Then turn the head over the right shoulder, bending it back as much as possible, as though trying to see the feet, but without moving the body ; repeat the same to the left at the back, and to the right and left in front, four times each, and four times alternately, thereby exercising all the muscles of the neck. Fig. 28 illustrates the trunk and waist exercises described in our last paper {p. 66). DOMESTIC SURGERY.—VI. Frost-Bite.-—The effects of cold, if severe, are scarcely less dangerous than those of heat, though not so frequently met with, in this country, at least. Probably the com- monest form of frost-bite is the ordinary chilblam, and its close resemblance to a burn is shown by the fact of a vesicle forming and leaving a sore behind it just as if the part had been burnt. As the worst thing for a burn is to apply cold, so the worst thing for a frost-bite is to apply heat, and this is frequently seen in the case of people who put their cold feet to the fire, and so produce the chilblains of which mention has been made. A frost-bitten part loses its natural colour, becomes of a tallowy white, feels numbed and insensible, and, if not judiciously treated, may mortify and drop off. The proper treatment is to restore the circulation in the part, very slowly and gradually, and for this purpose, friction should be used with the hand, containing snow or dipped in ice-water. The patient should be kept from the fire,- and in an airy room, until the sensation in the limb and its colour are fully restored. When a limb is really severely frost-bitten, immediate recourse should be had to medical advice, as the patient may lose a part of it, or hardly escape with his life. A person who has been long exposed to a low tem- perature, particularly if either very young or very aged, or in feeble health, may be so completely overcome as to be in very considerable danger. The first evidence of this is a drowsiness, which becomes after a time perfectly irresistible, but which, if indulged, is equally fatal. Every effort should be made to rouse the patient, and to keep him awake until shelter is reached, when, if already passed into an insensible condition, medical aid should be at once summoned. In the meantime, the patient should be stripped and wrapped in a blanket, and friction of the limbs with the hands should be icaa'efully and steadily carried on. A little warm milk may be cautiously ad- ministered with a spoon pushed well back into the throat, and, if an enema syringe is at hand, some warm water or milk may be thrown up into the bowels. Recourse should be had to artificial respiration, if the patient does not breathe even slightly ; but for instructions how to carry out this recommendation, the reader is referred to the chapter on the treatment of drowning, a much more common casualty than severe frost-bite. Gunpowder Accidents, though similarly treated to burns and scalds, must be confided to inofessional hands, if possible. The effect of the explosion of gunpowder upon the patient differs according to the proximity and the force of the explosion. Loose or slightly compressed gunpowder, as in a “ squib," scorches the patient by its explosion, and is apt to carry un- burnt grains of the powder into the skin. These leave an ugly and almost indelible mark ; for though it is true that the grains of powder may be picked out with a needle, few sufferers will endure the operation, which is necessarily painful. The explosion of tightly-compressed powder, as when contained in a powder-flask, is of a most violent character, and is sure to lead to such injury of the hand which holds it as to require immediate surgical attention. This accident is, in fact, only mentioned here in the hope that a hand may be saved by calling attention to the fool-hardy feat which so often recurs with the same disastrous result—the pouring pow'der from a flask into an open fire. Of course a complete train is thus established from the fire to the flask, with the most dreadful results to the foolish performer of the experiment. Gim-shot Injuries, and particularly those occurring in civil practice from the incautious use of fowling-pieces, are always most serious in their nature, and require most skilful professional treatment. As some time must ordi- narily elapse between the occurrence of the accident and the arrival of the surgeon, it may be well, however, to indicate the treatment to be pursued. In the first place, the bleeding should be arrested by binding up the wound in the manner already described. Secondly, as the patient will be certain to be suffering severely from “ shock,” it will be advisable to keep him in the recumbent position, to apply warmth to the extremities, and—if the bleeding has been controlled—to give stimulants cautiously. We take this opportunity of calling attention to the folly—w'e may almost say wickedness—of pointing any weapon, whether believed to be loaded or otherwise, at another person in jest. Such jests have so frequently turned out to be miserable and irremediable mistakes, frem the gun being unexpectedly loaded, that w'e very strongly maintain that from earliest childhood every boy should be forbidden to point even a pop-gun at a living person. I?ij2iries frojn Chemicals are comparatively rare acci- dents, though they may prove most serious in their results. The application of any of the strong mineral acids— nitric, sulphuric, or hydrochloric—to the surface of the body will char the cuticle, and, if not immediately washed off, or neutralised with an alkali—soda, potash, or lime— will eat into the part, giving rise to excruciating pain and destruction of the tissue. In the same way the application of the caustic alkalies will destroy the surface, and require to be neutralised with some diluted acid, of w hich vinegar is a convenient form. The most serious form of accident from chemical substances is when they are swallowed by mistake, and these cases require immediate and active medical treatment. Pending the arrival of a medical man, no harm can be done in any case by administering olive oil or uncooked eggs ; but the surgeon will of course use his discretion as to the means to be subsequently adopted. Particles of qicick-lime are occasionally blown into the eye, and produce very serious mischief if not immediately attended to. Since it is the contact with the tears w'hich produces the caustic effect, it is of no use to merely bathe the eye with water, and fortunately an antidote is at hand in vinegar, which, when mixed with water and applied to the eye, produces an insoluble salt of lime, and arrests the mischief. When all pain has been allayed by the use of the vinegar and water, a drop of castor-oil, placed between the lids, will give great comfort to the patient ; but medical advice should be sought if there are, as will frequently be the case, white marks left upon the surface of the eye-ball. Foreign Bodies introduced into various parts of the body cause more or less mischief ; and, as a rule, the earlier they are removed the better for the patient. Dust in the Eye is a familiar example, and is very distressing from the irritation in that sensitive organ which it immediately excites. When the foreign body is merely lying beneath the eye-lid it can often be