CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. the lower jaw, and then the two corresponding teeth of the upper. Although teething is a natural process, it is often accompanied with certain ailments ; the most common of these are diarrhoea and bronchitis, especially the former. Diarrhoea is so common an accompaniment of the process of teething, that by some it is considered natural. In any great degree, however, it is weakening, and should not be disregarded. We shall treat of the various ailments which are apt to happen during teething, under the heads of their various names, such as Diarrhoea, Bronchitis, Convulsions, &c. We shall only here remark that the child during teething is unusually sensitive, and requires to be preserved from extremes of heat and cold ; to be fed regularly and very simply. When a tooth is obviously pressing on the gum, and the gum is swollen or red, and the child disordered in any way, no objection should be offered by parents to having the gum lanced. The relief afforded by this measure is often most marked. Bronchitis and Diseases of the Breathmg Apparatus.— Few diseases are more common in young children than some degree of bronchitis, especially, perhaps, in the earlier or teething years of life. This complaint is not only common, but it is attended with some danger, and, unless speedily relieved, a doctor should be sent for. The disease consists in an inflammation of the bronchial tubes leading to the lungs. The wind-pipe divides into two tubes, these two divide into other two, and these again subdivide into two more, and so on until they attain a great minuteness, and on the minutest air-tubes the cells of the lungs are placed. Bronchitis, or inflammation of these tubes, is one of the most fatal diseases in our climate, especially to young children and old people. The symptoms of bron- chitis vary according to the extent of the disease, and as the disease affects more the smaller or the larger bronchial tubes. The child is quickly bereft of its usual liveliness, and shows the following symptoms :—It is feverish ; the breathing is quick, and the nostrils expand more or less ; there is cough, which at the first is probably hard and painful, often making the little patient cry ; a wheezing sound may be heard with the breathing. All these symp- toms are apt to be worse at night, the breathing getting shorter and the child getting hotter. If the smaller tubes are much affected, the inconvenience in breathing, and the fever, and the danger of the disease are the greater. All such symptoms are more serious when they occur in I delicate children, or in such children as have large heads, or who have their teeth slowly and late. If these symp- ! toms occur only in a slight degree, they may yield to a : little domestic treatment. If the weather be cold, the child must be kept in a room comfortably warm. Large linseed poultices should be applied to the chest, the first ! of which may contain a few grains of mustard. The fol- lowing mixture may be given :— Ipecacuanha wine... Spirits of nitre Syrup Bicarbonate of potash Water I drachm. 1 drachm. 2 drachms. 6 grains. ounce. A teaspoonful may be given to a child nine months old, [ a little more or less to older or younger children, or according to the severity of the symptoms. If the first I few doses cause a little sickness, they will do no harm. I The above mixture is very good for feverish coughs in children. The symptoms which indicate danger, and the need for regular medical advice, are great feverishness, quick or laboured breathing, and any duskiness or blue- ness of the colour of the face. Croup and Nervous Croup.—We will treat first of real croup, which consists of inflammation in the upper part of the wind-pipe. It occurs for the most part in children between the ages of two and five years, and is more com- njon in boys than girls. It is noticed that the children of ^ certain families are more liable to croup than the children of other families. The disease often comes on in the night, lit may set in with symptoms of a common cold, with more or less hoarseness anfl soreness about the top of the wind-pipe ; the child becomes feverish and coughs-qulte peculiarly—the peculiarity consisting in the cough having a dry, hoarse, harsh, ringing sound, the “ clangey” or “ brassy ” cough described by Dr. Cullen. The cough does not acquire this brassy sound all at once, probably not before twenty-four or thirty-six hours. It is very characteristic, and needs only to be heard, and to be associated with a feverish: state of the child, to teach us that croup is present. More or less coincidently with this cough, occurs a peculiarity of breathing. The child breathes with a crowing or barking sound. This crowing or barking sound in breathing, together with the brassy cough, the restlessness and feverishness, and the general difficulty in breathing, get worse at times, and especially they all tend to be worse at night. The severity of the case is to be judged of by the degree of fever and the amount of the peculiar noises in coughing and breathing which we have described. These sounds are caused by the swelling and inflammation at the upper part of the wind-pipe, which may be so great as almost to block it up, in which case the child becomes blue, and breathes with painful struggles and difficulty. We need not say that in such a case as this, medical assistance should be sought as soon as possible. In the meantime, the child should be put into a warm bath. After this a large linseed poul- tice should be put upon the chest, and a sponge dipped in hot water (as hot as:can comfortably be borne by the child) should be applied to the neck of the patient for a quarter of an hour or tjwenty xninutes at a time; on discontinuing the sponge,' a little dry flannel should be wrapped round the neck. The child should be in a warm room, in which a kettle should be kept boiling, sending out steam into the apartment, as moisture in the air is very agreeable and beneficial in this disease. If any dif- ficulty or delay is experierjced. in gqttjng a doctor, and the cough is brassy and the breithipg of the crowing kind described above, a little ipec a. nanha |w|ne should be pro- cured, and of this a third, o:‘ f. l|alfj or fhq whole of a tea- spoonful may be given ever' ([uailt^r pfap hour, in a very little water, until vomiting js p "odiicbd. 'The smaller doses will do for children about jtwd ydfirs of age> or even lesser ones for younger children. ’ ^he‘ hotter the child, the older it is, and the more ringing the cough, the more ipecacuanha wine will it need. After vomiting has been brought about, ten drops of the wine may be given in two tea-spoonfuls of water every three or four hours, till relief is obtained. Children liable to croup should not sleep in cold rooms. It should be added that many cases of croup are of the nature of diphtheria, and the appearances of this disease should always be looked for in croupy cases. False or Net vous Croup (Child-crowing).—This disease is liable to be confounded with true croup, but it is quite different in its nature. Like true croup, it is most apt to occur in the night. It may occur quite suddenly. It is a nervous disease and not an inflammatory one. It is cha- racterised by a sudden difficulty—almost a suspension— of breathing. When breathing does take place, it is accompanied by a loud crowing sound, which gives the name to the disease. It is really a spasm of the muscles of respiration, and may be accompanied by twitches of the thumbs or face, and even by general convulsions. It differs from true croup in that it occurs to younger children, often between the ages of six and nine months. It often comes on while the child is getting a tooth. It is not attended with fever, like true croup, and comes on and goes off sud- denly. A warm bath should be given, and a medical man sent for. The child might be suffocated in one of the attacks. If a tooth is pressing on the gum, it should be lanced, and this measure often relieves wonderfully.