230 THE SOURCES OF OUR FOOD SUPPLY. Scotland, especially from Findhorn, near Aberdeen ; but considerable numbers are now cured in London. The Whiting {Gadjis or Merlangtis vulgaris) is a very delicate and easily digestible fish, which is met with in our seas about half a mile or more from land. It is in season from November to the end of February. The English whiting rarely weighs more than a pound and a halt, but those taken off the Doggerbank occasionally turn the scale at six or seven pounds. The Ling {Gadus molva) is a long slender fish, and abounds near the Orkneys and on the Yorkshire and Cornish coasts. It is in perfection from February to the end of May. The Mackerel {Scomber scombrus) is a native of the European and American seas, and is in greatest perfec- tion in the early part of the season, from April to June, when it contains but little roe, or in October, when it has recovered from spawning. It was supposed to emigrate to other seas, but is now believed to remain in the English seas all the year round. It is one of the best fish for food, as, although fat, and less watery than most other fish, it is delicate in flavour, easy of digestion, and very nutritious. The Smelt {Osmerus eperla7ius) is a small but delicate and delicious fish, which inhabits fresh water from August to May, and salt water during the summer, but is rarely met with between Dover and the Land^ End. What is caught on that coast is called the Sand-smelt or Atlierine {A t/ierinapresbyter), and is comparatively dry and coarse. The Gurnard {Trigla cuculus) is an excellent fish, which is common on the English and Irish coasts; it is in season from September to January, but is rarely sold in London. There are the grey, red, sapphirine, and flying gurnards. 'I'he Skate {Raia batis) is a large and comparatively thin fish, sometimes weighing nearly two hundredweight; it is caught off the coast from Cornwall to Kent, as well as off the Orkneys. The flesh is white, nutritive, and pleasant, and is much improved by crimping. It is in season from July to January. There are several kinds of Mullet—those which are grouped as red {Mullus ba^'batus), and the grey {Miigil capita, M. cheno, and M. curtus). The former is a hand- some fish, and is caught chiefly on the Cornish and Sussex coasts. It is in best condition in May and June. The grey mullet belongs to a different family, and is plentiful on our coasts. It is considered a fine fish, much superior to the red mullet, and its roe is made into an inferior caviare. The Eel {Anguilla vulgaris) is a migratory fish, which is caught both in fresh and salt water ; one variety, the Cojiger Eel {Anguilla conger), is rarely found in fresh water. A large proportion of the eels sold in the London market are brought from Holland. This fish is extremely rich and nutritious. It is viviparous, bringing forth its young towards the end of summer. The Salmon {Salmo salar) is a migratory fish, and is considered by most people as the king of edible fish. It is caught in the mouths of most European rivers, but our chief supply comes from Scotland, Ireland, and Il.ofland. It is chiefly eaten when fresh, although a comparatively small quantity is pickled, dried, or pre- served in tins. Salmon Trout {Salmo trutta) is con- sidered nearly as good as salmon, but is rarely met with exceeding four or five pounds in weight, whilst salmon often weighs thirty or forty pounds, and one has been caught weighing eighty-three pounds. 1 he common Trout {Salmo fario) is a fish inhabiting ri\’crs and lakes. It is generally about twelve or fifteen inches long, and two or three pounds in weight, but is occasion,ally met \'. ith of a much larger size. 1 !ie Char {Salmo salvclinns or alpinus) is a much- esteemed small fish, found chiefly in the lakes of Cumber- land and Westmoreland. As regards pike, carp, tench, roach, dace, and other fresh-water fish, they are rather to be considered as objects of sport than of food, and there- fore need not be further mentioned. The Herring. There are said to be two kinds, Clupea Harengus and Clupea Leachii, both of which frequent our coast in immense numbers. The herring has been supposed to migrate to other shores, but it is now be- lieved to go only into deep water. The common herring {C. Harengus) visits our coasts in the summer and autumn, appearing first at the Hebrides, and spawns between August and November, when it is called a “shotten herring.” The other variety spawns in Feb- ruary, and is therefore in season when the others are out. When strongly salted it is called a “ red herring,” and when only slightly cured, a “ bloater.” The Pilchard {Clupea pilchardus) frequents the Cornish and Devonshire coasts. It is a very fat fish, and is not much esteemed in England, except in the south-western counties ; but when cured, it is very largely exported. It reaches our coast in July, remains until October, and sometimes appears again towards the end of the year. Whitebait {Clupea alba) is a small fish, which ascends the Thames in April, and is caught there, and in some other parts, until September. It is fat, like the other varieties of Clupea, and is highly esteemed. There is some doubt whether or not it is the young of the herring or shad, as the parent fish with roe in it has never been caught. The Sprat {Clupea sprattus) much resembles the herring in its habits, and is much used by the poor. They are obtained chiefly from the coasts of Essex, Kent, and Suffolk, and are dried in large quantities in Yarmouth. The Sardme {Clupea sardma) is somewhat allied to the pilchard, and is caught in large quantities in the Mediterranean. It is more used now than anchovies, and is imported preserved either in brine or oil, the latter being the highest-priced and the best. Small pilchards have lately been preserved in the same manner, and are equally as good. The Anchovy {Engraulis encrasicolus) is a small fish abounding in parts of the Mediterranean, especially on the coasts of Italy, Greece, and Spain, and is also met with off parts of France and Holland. SHELL-FISH. Lobsters {Homarus vulgaris) are met with on the rocky coasts of England, but are chiefly obtained from the northern parts of Scotland and from Norway. Preserved lobsters are brought from Norway, America, and other places. The flesh is hard, and difficult of digestion. The best season for them is from October to May. The Crab {Cancer) is found in similar places to the lobster. There are two kinds—the common {C. pagarus), and a small variety (C. mances). The former are rich, and more easily digestible than lobster; the latter watery. They are in season all the year, except from May to July. The Shrimp {Crangon vulgaris) is met with in shallow water along our coasts, and in large quantities. Oysta's {Ostrea edulis). The native oyster which is procured from the vicinity of Milton is esteemed the ; best, but almost all the English oysters are good. Those brought from France and America are not so delicate. Large quantities of raw and preserved oysters are im- ported from America, where they are cheap and very plentiful. They are most digestible when eaten raw, and are in season from the end of August to May. They are not fit for food during the spawning time, or for about two months afterwards. The Scallop {Ostrea maxima), the Mussel {Mytilus edulis), the Cockle {Cardium edule), and the Periwinkle {Turbo littoreus), need only a bare mention, as they are not of much importance as food.