CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. The course of training for educational work under Government will be treated in a separate chapter on Education. Matronships, and other subordinate places in prisons, are now recognised as affording excellent openings for educated women. - It is needful that the matron of such an institution as a prison should possess great judgment, sympathy, and tact; not only because .she has the care and superintendence of the prisoners, but also because the warders, servants, and all the female officials are under her charge ; and she is responsible for the working and safe keeping of all beneath her sway. Matrons are elected by the magistrates in Quarter Sessions, or by a committee appointed by them ; and the selection of the applicant is afterwards confirmed by the magistrates, in Quarter Sessions. In general the school- mistress must be approved by the chaplains, under whom she works more directly. In Government convict prisons these appointments are made by the directors. The salaries vary in almost every prison, and pensions, or gratuities for length of service, are granted. Women of high principle and deep religious feeling are desired, who unite kindness and firmness, and have a great love of order, and a good judgment. The matron’s salary varies from ;^ioo per annum to ^175, generally with furnished lodging, coals, gas, and washing. The deputy and sub-assistant matrons receive from ^50 to ^75 per annum, with lodging, coals, and gas. Certificated schoolmistresses for the convict prison ser- vice are much in demand. The candidates must be in sound health, unmarried, or widows ; the salary is .^60 per annum, rising by annual increments of £p. los. to ^80, with lodgings, or an allowance for rent. Applica- tions for all situations in prisons to be made at the offices of the Directors of Convict Prisons, 44, Parliament Street, Westminster, S.W. The principal and assistant warders get from 15s. to 24s. a week, with uniform and lodgings. Medical attend- ance and medicines are free, but all board themselves. Warderships are suitable for the higher class of domestic servants. Young and unformed women are not to be encouraged to undertake this work, as, of course, nothing can shield them from sights and sounds of terrible evil, at times. But the situation of prison matron has much to recommend it as a safe, comfortable, and permanent position ; and many women who have been matrons for years call the work “pleasant;” interesting, at least, it must be. The last occupation suitable to women under Local Government and other official Boards is that of matrons of workhouses. There seems no good reason why women from the middle and educated classes should not hold this situation. The one usually urged is that the positions of master and matron are generally held by a man and his wife, and that a superior woman could not hold a subordinate post under a master of the stamp at present employed. A recent authority writing on this subject says that, “as gentlemen of small means, military and naval officers on half-pay, and many others, have accepted the governorship of prisons, there can be no reason why they should not take charge of workhouses.” The entire charge of a workhouse, containing from 500 to 700 souls, would seem as worthy of any man’s powers as any sphere of work that could be pointed out; and if the Poor Law orders were better administered, by an educated man, the salary would very probably be increased, as a matter of wise economy. In all workhouses the position of both master and matron is most important. Their authority is very great, and the post affords immense facilities for doing good. They are responsible only to the Board of Guardians, and cannot be dismissed even by them, without the consent of the Local Government Board. Board, lodging, washing, and attendance, are all found; and the combined salaries of master and matron gene- rally amount, in the larger woi'khouses, to over £200 per annum. Here, also, the work mainly consists in super- intending their subordinates. The general duties of the matron are to superintend the female inmates, to look after the cutting-out of clothes, &c., to visit the sick in the infirmaries once a day, to see that the kitchen and laundry-work are properly attended to, and the whole house scrupulously clean and tidy. She has also to give out the stores of linen and of provisions, and to see that the children are well, and to superintend the schoolmistress. Many, if not all, of these duties are such as every lady habitually undertakes in her own home ; and when, in addition to this, we understand that the work of a matron is a real work of Christian charity, it is not too much to say that the post is a suitable one for any educated woman, with some force of charactei', and sound health. The classes of people who come under her charge are the old, and the sick, and orphans, and deserted children, who will look to the matron for all they will ever know of a mother’s loving care. In addition to this, to a good religious woman, there would be the opportunity of sometimes being able to hold out a hand of mercy to a lost and miserable sister; who, under her kindly ministrations, might yet aspire to a better life. THE SOURCES OF OUR FOOD SUPPLY.—II. As the title of these papers implies, we shall not treat of any articles of food excepting those ordinarily used in this country, and therefore shall not refer even to the quadrupeds and other animals eaten in foreign countries. A consideration of the very large number of animals and of vegetable products which are used in the different countries under the rule of the British Government would extend these articles to far too great a length; indeed, our space forbids anything like a full consideration of the subject even within the limits just mentioned. Our food supplies are derived from all the three great kingdoms of nature—viz., the animal, vegetable, and inorganic. From the former we obtain what is ordinarily termed “ meat,” also poultry, game, fish, turtle, mollusks, &c., as well as eggs, milk, cheese, and butter; whilst from the second we procure cereals, succulent vegetables, fruits, condiments, tea, coffee, and sugar; and from the third, water, and, as some say, air. MEAT. Beef is the flesh of oxen, cows, and bulls. There are many breeds of the domestic ox {Bos taurus), which are divided into long and short-horned and the hornless, the latter of which are small, and furnish beef of a very fine quality. But the quality of beef does not depend only on the breed, but varies much according to the sex, age, and the food with which it has been supplied. That of the ox or heifer is the best, and most easily digestible, has more flavour, and if the animal have been properly fed, an intermixture of fat and lean. The flesh should not be too dark, or of a light red colour, as in the former case it may be diseased, and in the latter was most pro- bably obtained from a young ox, when it is not so sapid or tender. Cow beef is inferior to ox beef, and if derived from an old animal is very tough, but if from a young one, and especially if from, an heifer, it is very good. Bull iDeef is hard and indigestible, and only fit for sausages. Veal is the flesh of a calf, which is often killed in England when it is only a few weeks old. A calf of effiht or ten weeks sives better flavoured and more