i66 GARDENING. GARDENING.—VIII. ROTATION CROPPING [continuedfro7Hp. August.—I. Early strawberries will have completed their work in the producing line, and the late kinds be making progress, and therefore it will be necessary to give them their summer dressing, by clearing away all weeds, runners, and whatever material was laid down for the purpose of keeping the fruit free from grit and dirt. A good watering with liquid manure will prove very bene- ficial both to those that have done bearing and those that are coming into fruit. Raspberries will be in full bearing now, and as much depends on the gathering, we would advise daily recourse to the trees for that purpose, until they have ceased to yield. These, like strawberries, should be kept entirely free from weeds and other litter, and be occasionally supplied with liquid manure. 2. The whole of this plot, if properly managed, will be under winter crop, with the exception of that portion oc- cupied by a few potatoes intended for seed. Under good management, broccoli will have been planted, and turnips sown by this time, and, if so, little remains to be done, except the making up of deficiencies, of which our readers will be the best judges. 3. This department being of a permanent nature, little need be said, save to recom- mend salt to be sparingly scattered over sea-kale ; but rhubarb will need a more generous food, and must have its full quantum. Weeds must be in all cases kept at bay, and neither crop must be permitted to extend beyond its proper boundary. 4. As the onions in this plot will have made considerable progress, a vigilant watch must be kept upon them, so that as soon as they are ripe they may be pulled up, dried, and stored away in some dry, airy place. The ground thus rendered vacant should be at once planted with celery, in single trenches, forty- two inches asunder from centre to centre, and not deeper than eighteen inches. A six inch layer of well-rotted stable dung should be mixed up with the soil at the bottom of each trench, previous to planting. The first row planted will require earthing-up by this time, and this operation you cannot do better than sec to at once. A good watering will also prove beneficial in dry weather. 5. Such peas as are over should be removed without delay, to make room for future crops, or for the broccoli planted between them. Any gaps in the rows of savoys, Brussels sprouts, &c., should be filled up at once, and as soon as the whole of the peas have done their work for the season, remove the haulms, stir the surface of the ground, and give it a good soaking with liquid manure, for the purpose of en- couraging the growth of the broccoli and other green crops, which will require, earthing-up shortly. 6. As this plot is at present entirely occupied by kidney beans, both dwarf and runners, you will merely have to keep the ground clear of weeds, and see that the latter have proper support. 7. Provided the requisite quantity of beans were planted here, and the carrots were properly thinned last month, all you will have to do for the present is to remove the haulms of the first crop of beans as soon as done with, and keep the compartment tidy in all other respects. 8. As some of the early celery is still in this quarter, due attention must be given to it, so far as earthing-up, watering with liquid manure, and weeding, is concerned. A moderate quantity of endive may be planted out here, and a few lettuces might very well be planted upon the celery ridges, provided it can be done early in the month, because, if left later, the ridges will be required for earthing- up before the celery can be cleared away. September.—i. No time should be lost in giving this plot the dressing advised last month, provided you hav^e hitherto omitted to do so, and there will be little required afterwards save keeping weeds under, and getting rid of any litter that may perchance accumulate thereon. As the rasi)bcrries—that is to say, the earlier ones—will have done bearing by the end of the month, you may cut away the old canes, and thus strengthen the young ones, and thereby increase their fruitfulness next year. Place stakes to the autumn-bearing ones, to which secure them from time to time, as required. A few of these late-bearing kinds should be cultivated in every garden. 2. This compart- ment, provided it has been properly treated, will be filled entirely with winter crops, and all the attention they will require at present is earthing up. Such of these vegetables, however, as are at all backward will be greatly assisted by one or two applications of liquid manure. Not that we approve of gross growth, as that only tends to make them more susceptible of injury from frost and so forth; but in moderation assistance of this kind will be found very beneficial. 3. The chief attention required here is to keep the ground entirely clear of weeds, with the ex- ception of gathering seed of sea-kale that has been per- mitted to ripen. 4. The growth of celery must be hastened by every legitimate means, because the onion crop will have prevented your putting in the plants so early as you would otherwise have done. Earth up such as are ready for the operation, but not otherwise, as we are no advocates for performing this kind of work too hastily. Where lettuces or the celery ridges have been cut for the table you may remove the old stalks, for two reasons—first, to promote the growth of the celery, and, secondly, for the purpose of giving the plot a neat and orderly appearance. 5. The peas in this plot will soon be done with, and the removal of their haulms will give more room to the savoys, broccoli, and other winter stuff planted between them. In a word, as soon as you have cleared away the former, give the soil a moderate digging, and a slight allowance of liquid manure. In a little time the latter may be earthed up a little, that is to say, as soon as they have taken advantage of the addi- tional space accorded them, which their roots will have done in a week or so; and fill up all gaps in the rows, and keep the weeds under by the continual use of the hoe. 6. As soon as the kidney beans have given over bearing, the ground they occupied should be cleared, manured, and trenched for a supply of spring cab- bages, which may be planted as soon as the ground is ready for their reception. Let the rows be two feet apart, and the plants one foot asunder in each row, so that every other one may be drawn early, and the others left to heart. 7. The broad beans occupying a portion of this plot should be removed as soon as they have completed their work of bearing; and, having manured and dug the ground, it will be ready to receive cauliflowers or some similar crop. The carrots in this compartment rviU need little or no attention till the end of the month, when they will be ready for taking up and storing away. The parsnips and beetroots, as a rule, should be left in the ground until March, with the exception of such as you may require for use between now and that time. 8. It will be necessary to earth up the celery several times during this month, taking care, however, not to commence the work too early, nor to allow a particle of earth to enter the hearts of the plants. Coal-ashes will be found beneficial for blanching the latest crop, provided they are placed against the plants and an additional outer lining of soil is added. Endive, which should be advancing rapidly on this ground, must be kept perfectly free from weeds, and on no account must any- thing be allowed to enter the hearts of any one of the plants. October.—i. Little or nothing will be required here for the present, with the exception, of putting a stop to the growth of weeds by rooting them up with the hoe, and the removal of every description of litter. The late rasp- berries will most probably still continue to bear, and as they do not like dry weather you will be doing them a good turn by supplying them with a little moisture. Suckers may, and indeed should, be removed as soon as they are