348 HOUSEHOLD AMUSEMENTS. Countryman.—Hat brushed the wrong way, paper collars with the corners sticking well up, silk neckerchief, and showy waistcoat. Doctor.—White neck-cloth and black coat, walking- stick with a knob, which is frequently applied to the lips during consultation. Hoiisemaid.—Short apron, bouquet paper with or with- out ribbons as cap. Judge.—Lady’s victorine across the head, dressing- gown robes, spectacles, desk, and pen. Military Officer.—Turn-up collar, cocked hat, sash, ' moustache, and cane. Naval Buttoned coat, gold paper epaulettes, boy’s cap with gilt band. Old Man.— Hair combed off the forehead, which is marked by a few lines drawn with raw umber; little cotton wool to represent white whiskers, spectacles, and a thick stick. Policeman.—Coat closely buttoned, collar turned up, and marked in chalk with a number ; hair brushed up to the top of the head before putting on the hat. Prisoner.—Hair short and rough, no shirt-collar or front, spotted handkerchief round the neck, charcoal beard, and black eye, if required. • Sailor.— Coat tails pinned up behind for jacket, no waistcoat, black neckerchief with ends loose, turn-down collar, yachting-hat. Tax-gatherer.—Buttoned coat, hat over eyebrows, spec- tacles, book, and pen behind the ear. Workman.—Square paper cap, shirt sleeves, and white apron. We will now give an example of the dialogue-charade, founded on a word of two syllables. FIRST SYLLABLE. Characters, Mr. and Mrs. Turtledove, Miss Julia May- fair their cousin. Parlour-maid. Scene, the drawing-room of a country cottage ; the Turtledoves seated, in easy morning costume ; Mrs. T. at fancy-work, her spouse looking over the paper. Mrs. T.—Dear me ! How I long to see town again. So many months since we were there; and really one seems to be almost out of the world here, although it is so beau- tiful in summer. Don’t you think so, Charles t Mr. T.—Well, my love, perhaps it is a little—ah, ahem —secluded; but one can always see what is going on by the papers ; and then you know you detest town formalities. Mrs. T.—True ; but, my dear, one can’t see the shops by the papers, .and 1 should so much like to do so now and then. But there, Julia is coming to-day, and she will be able to tell me all the latest styles and the fashions. Mr. 7'.—Yes ; (aside) and to exhibit a few of them in her own person, I’ll warrant. Afrs. r.—Hark, Charles ! Pm sure that must be Julia. (Rising.) Pray run to receive her. (Charlesyawns, and moves leisurely towards the door.) Enter Parlour-maid.—If you please, m’m. Miss Julia Mayfair. Enter Miss Julia (in walking costume, but dressed in extravagant imitation of the latest styles.) — My dearest Louisa ! (embraces her.) How charmed I am to see you in such rural simplicity ! How do, Charles t (Shakes hands.) What a pretty cottage ! What a de- lightful retreat! (Aside.) What an outlandish place! (Takes a scat.) Mrs. T.—You can’t think, my love, how 1 have longed for this visit. You are truly kind to come to see us. But how you have altered ! 1 should scarcely have re- cognised you ! Miss ‘Julia.—Altered ! Pray don’t say so. You don’t think I am looking any older, I hope! But town life is extremely fatiguing, I must admit, though I should expire without it! Mrs. T.—Older ! Oh dear no ! But your complexion, my dear—your (glances at her hair)—in fact, you seem so much fairer than you were. Miss Julia.—Oh yes, my dear. Quite the rage, I assure you. The Auricomous Fluid. Nobody would be seen without it now—that is (with emphasis), nobody who is in the world. Mrs. T.—Well, my love, I can’t say I appreciate it at present; but, of course, if it’s the fashion, that must be tny want of taste. Miss Julia.—Quite so, my dear. But y%u will get used to it in time, and when the fashion comes down into these parts, I am sure it will suit you admirably. Mr. T. (advancing towards the audience, a?td .peaking aside.) What! Louisa make herself such an object! Whatever Miss Mayfair may think of herself, I consider her a perfect Guy. SECOND SYLLABLE. Scene, supposed to be a ball-room. When the curtain is withdrawn, two ladies are seen seated; two gentlemen advance, and, either in the ordinary way, or by pantomime, invite them to become their partners. They do so, and, some one volunteering on the piano, the four perform a waltz, or a redowa, &c., according to taste. THE WORD. Scene, the rooms of Mr. Fitzsquander, in St. Swithin’s College. Curtain withdrawn discloses Mr. F. seated at a table, with a letter in his hand and his fingers in his hair. Fitzsquander (rising).—Well, I am in a fix! Snap- child and Co. down upon me at last, and Shentpershent says “his friend” can’t wait any longer for his money— the old thief. And the governor wrote last time he wouldn’t stand it again. I’m up a tree now and no mistake. What’s to be done? I must have some advice— don’t see my way out of it at all. Enter Tom Twistem.—Mornin’, Fitz. How are you, old boy? (Shakes harids heartily.) Why, what’s the matter? You look scared. Fitssqtcander.—Scared! Well I maybe. You’re just in the nick of time, Tom—the very man I want. Look here! (Shows him the letter.) 1 | Tom (reading it).—Whew! That’s just like ’em, old i fellow. Told you you were not downy enough to have i < dealings with Snapchild. Wish you had taken my advice. ' s Fitz.—Well, I want it «z>7£/. What’s to be done? You’re I ' used to this sort of thing, I know. I Tom.—Done? Why, go to the governor, of course. > a Fitz.—No good, Tom. Cut up rusty last time. I know t; the old boy—you don’t. Tom.—Well, then, go to the Mum—write to the Mamma, and ask her to get round the governor for you. Fitz.—The Mum! Bravo,Tom! Capital idea. Haven’t tried it on for months. She’ll do it—she knows how. The e governor can’t stand her arguments. n Tom.—Yes; and tell her you’ve been neglecting busi- ai ness affairs to get up for your little-go, and had no to time to think of accounts. That's how / did it fo (Aside.) Wish I could do it again; but same game won’t in do twice. ® Fitz.—Thanks, my boy—much. I see my way lie now, I think. There’s nothing like having an ex- til perienced guide in these matters, and you are such an ac old stager. (Fraternal demonstrations to each other.) an . The company now have to guess the word, which is ob Guidance (Guy-dance). i am pantomime charades. dci Acted charades, as we have already hinted, may be cip performed entirely in pantomime, and many prefer this ari; Ofj