275 CASSELUS HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. aU rancidity. Fifthly, dyes should, when used at all, be se- lected with much caution, some being very injurious to the texture of the hair. Sixthly, there should be a systematic manner of dealing with the hair in reference, to cutting, washing, and such-like things. What we mean is, that no change in the manner of treating the hair should be made suddenly, or at irregular intervals. It should not be washed now with hot, now with cold water, now without, now with soap; cut very short at one time after a long interval and then snipped at other times at short intervals; but our behaviour towards it should be uniform and constant. In that way we get an even and constant growth, so to speak. Fifthly, all excesses should be avoided as regards the actual growth of the hair. There are some mothers who fondly delight in the ample and golden locks that adorn the shoulders and backs of their little ones, and very naturally so ; but we are quite sure that in some of these fair- haired children the after results are bad ; the powers of the scalp are taxed in childhood and young life to pro- duce a luxuriant crop, only to be exhausted the more speedily as years pass on. Certainly it is safer to keep the hair in the young of moderate length ; it is not only more cleanly in every sense, but more conducive to a strong growth of hair. Lastly, the scalp should be kept moderately cool. Some ladies bedizen themselves with an enormous amount of head-gear that makes their head hot, deranges the local circulation, and leads to debility in the hair-forming apparatus. In the case of boys it is by no means injurious to the hair to let them be a good deal with the head uncovered; of course in cold, damp weather this cannot be permitted, but in fair and mild weather a good blow in the wind, especially if exercise is being taken, is rather good than otherwise ; on the same principle it is bad to wrap up the head in hot night-caps and wrappers at night, better by far sleep with the head cool and uncovered. Washing.—This is an operation that is most beneficial. At least it should be practised once a week by adults and the young. In the case of babies it may be done every morning before they go into their bath. But there are one or two things necessary to be observed. No strong soap should be used, but a veiy mild one. We have already spoken highly of two or three kinds which are to be recommended. The scalp should be fairly rubbed with the points of the fingers, when the head is in a lather. If soap is objected to, white of egg may supply its place. Tepid water should be used, with a douche of cold water to finish off with, for this gives tone to the scalp. The hair should then be very well dried, the scalp slightly greased with pomade, the finger being used to apply it in partings made here and there over the scalp, and then a brushing will apply as much grease to the hair itself as will prevent any too much evaporation through the hair. The use of the grease after washing is a preventive to too much evaporation. Those who are afraid of catching cold will find that the use of some pomade in the way just indicated will save them from the evil they fear. The truth is, that in many cases after the natural fatty matter is removed from the scalp and hair by the soap used, there is so much chilling of the head from the evaporation, that cold results ; but the use of grease defeats this occur- rence. There is no objection to the addition of a little Eau de Cologne to the water with which the head is washed; we do not approve, as a rule, of the use of any spirituous liquid, for the simple reason, that its evaporation takes place very rapidly and may chill the scalp. There are some persons who like sponging the head with cold water, or who allow their shower bath to fall upon their head. Others prefer a tepid douche over the head. There can be no objection to these practices if they are habitual, if a glow is felt in the scalp after their use, or if they are not followed by the occurrence of any headache or the like. Brushing.—Different opinions are often given upon this matter. Some advise very hard brushes, others soft, some “ electrical ” brushes, others those that are “ magnetic,” and so on. Now what is the object of brushing? In the first place, to remove the dust or dirt that gets en- tangled in the hair, and secondly to stimulate the circulation of the head to a moderate degree, so as to keep the hair follicles up to their work. Now, for the mere freeing of the hair from dust, and this applies par- ticularly to the case of ladies, a soft brush is as good as a hard one ; but as regards the gentle stimulation of the scalp, the brush should be as stiff as can be used with comfort to the possessor. The scalp should never be so vigorously brushed as to make it tender or painful. There are many who cause pain by the way in which they brush the scalp, and they think they stir up the hair bulbs to increased vigour ; but they do the reverse, they really irritate. The scalp after brushing should be gently stimulated, nothing more than this. Hence each man or woman must use that kind of brush as regards stiffness or softness, and that amount of brushing which makes the head feel “glowing;” but decidedly not painful, or hot and tender. We do not give our reason in any detail for proving that what we say is true, but we speak em- phatically and dogmatically from extensive experience, and our readers will do well to follow the course we lay down for them. Electric and magnetic brushes are very well in their way, but they have no particular virtue in them for healthy heads of hair. Cutting.—A few words will suffice for our notice of this. If cutting is to be of real use, it should be had recourse to at regular intervals; we think it much better that a small amount should be removed at short intervals, than a good deal at one sitting after a long period of waiting. It would certainly be best that everyone should, to use a barber’s expression, “have the ends trimmed” every fortnight if this were possible, at least once a month. If, in the case of ladies, the hair shows a disposition to split, the cutting of a tiny portion off the hair every fort- night or so is really beneficial. Some hairdressers dilate eloquently upon the advantages of singeing the hair; they say that this operation seals up the ends of the hair, and prevents the escape of the nutrient juices; which is so much nonsense, because the hair is not a tube, nor does it, when cut across, let out any of its juices. Curling is not a procedure which we can commend. It, perhaps, does not have very much influence, when done moderately, in checking or damaging the growth of the hair, but if frequently and extensively practised, it no doubt would do so. At the same time, it does alter the texture of the hair somewhat at the part which comes into contact with the iron. But, happily, curling is not a thing much in fashion at present. Pomades.—We must confess that we have never been able to understand the reason why some hairdressers decry the use of pomades. Nature herself has provided two little pomade-makers, or fatty glands, that open into the hair follicle, one on each side of the hair, for the express purpose of greasing the hair and the scalp. This teaches us that a certain amount of fatty matter is neces- sary and beneficial to the proper growth of the hair. Let us add that pomades are to be used in those cases where the natural fatty secretion of the scalp is deficient—where the head is dry and tending to be scurfy. Some persons do not require them. When pomades arc used, there are three things to be observed. The head must be vzashcd frequently, or, at least, once a week, to remove the old greasy material which must be present; the pomade must be applied to the scalp in different places—in various partings—and brushed out into the hair ; and, thirdly, the pomades must never be used if they are in the least degree rancid, or approaching thereto. Pomades are infinitely to be preferred to spirituous lotions and washes, and they are needed in our variable climate.