HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART. 264 Fig. 7. HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART.—VII. PAPER FLOWER MAKING [continuedfromp. igs)- Making the Stamens and Pistils.—Our next instructions will be how to make the hearts, as they are commonly called, but which are known botanically as stamens and pistils. It is by far the best plan, and the usual one, to purchase these, for the making of them is in itself a busi- ness. It is usual also to buy the calyxes. Persons may fancy that when all these portions are pur- chased, the art of flower making becomes simply mechanical. This it is not: a good deal of patience, nice manipulation, and taste, are needed to produce flowers worthy of admiration. However, for those who desire to do so, we give in- structions which will en- able them to construct these portions of the flowers at home. Very fine wire is used for the main stem of the stamen, otherwise, when it comes to be added to the flower-stalk, the re- sult would be too bulky. Exceedingly fine wire, bristles, or a fine strong glacd thread, can be used for the fine thread- like stamens ; in fact, many people prefer cot- ton to any other mate- rial for this purpose. If wire or fine bristle is used, it must be dipped in whiting mixed toa thin paste, with a very little gum in it. When dry, dip the tips in the ce- ment, to make knobs at the end. When these are nearly, but notquitedry, dip them into a pill - box filled with bright yel- low paint pow- der which can be bought at any oil - shop for a penny or two- pence. Bright green (emerald), rich brown, and orange paint, will also be needed. A small quantity of powder carmine, and powder cobalt will be wanted for the flowers, and in moist paints, carmine, Prussian blue, cobalt, and a small piece of gamboge. Having prepared the thread-like stamens as described, take the wire meant for their support, and dip the top into the cement, repeating the process till you have a knob at the top (like that shown in Fig. 17). Cut one of your stamens in half and insert it at the top whilst the cement is wet. Also, before it is dry, coat it evenly all over with the emerald green powder, which is put on with a dry brush. You must use a separate brush for each colour. A quicker mode of making the pistil. is by putting a little cotton wool on the stem, by means, of cement, shaping it properly, and then dipping it into the cement. Tie six more of the stamens to the pistil, with green silk. This completes the centre (Fig. 17) for azaleas. Fig. 14 is the pistil for a carnation. It is made with a knob of cement like the last, the long centre is a single strand of white ostrich feather. Fig. 7 is a geranium centre, the stamens made like the azalea sta- mens, only longer, and seven in number. The pistil consists of three filaments joined together in one, with gum ; but having them separate just at the top. They are not tipped with any pollen, as the coloured dust is called. Fig. 3. Fig. II is for rhododendrons. The stamens, nine in number, like the azalea stamens, but much longer and tipped with yellow. The pistil is of thick wire, neatly wrapped round with yel- low paper, as stalks are wrapped. Dip the tip in strong gum, and whilst wet, into the brown, powder. Fig. I is a rose centre. On the fine wire used for the basis of the centre, tie a few loops of pea- green Berlin wool or thick filoselle. Then cut them close down, so that they look like a little close tuft of velvet pile. Make twenty - six sta- mens like the azalea centres, but much shorter, and tip them with yellow. Fig. 15 is a heartsease centre. Take wire like that you have used to form the centres on. Coat it with whiting, as already de- scribed. Make a knob of cement nearly at the tip, and colour it orange by dip- ping it in the powder. The orange is to be almost a scarlet. In the figure ve have shown a knob at each end of the wire ; each of theie is for a separate heart. Fig. 8 is a China-aster heart. Take a common linen button, cover it with net so as tq' fasten it flat to a wire crooked at the top. Raise it to the required height with cement, and before the last coat is dry, put closely all over it a number of yellow seed beads. When dry, dip it in gum, and then tip it with yellow powder. The daisy centre is made in a similar way, with a smaller round of cardboard and not raised, but the beads just gummed on and dipped in yellow powder. Fig. 10. A daisy may also be made with a centre of yellow wool like the rose centre, Fig. 3.