COOKERY. 182 till tender, in no more water than will cover them ; then serve them as a stew, thickening their liquor with flour and butter, and seasoning with pepper, salt, and vinegar ; or scallop them in their own shells with bread-crumbs, butter, pepper, moistened with a little of their own juice, and browned on the top in an oven or before the fire. They may be added, chopped to oyster or lobster patties, and, with hard-boiled eggs, may enter appropriately into any fish pie, but in every case, the scallops must be well boiled previously. Stewed Oysters.—A light dish for invalids who find uncooked oysters too cold and difficult of digestion. As you open the oysters, put them and the liquor from the shells into a small basin, leaving the beards on them; these are not left for the sake of being eaten, unless liked, but for the juice that comes from them. For a dozen middle-sized oysters, put into a small saucepan a lump of butter as big as an egg; over this, pour the oysters and their juice; dredge a very little flour over them, season moderately with pepper and grated nutmeg, add two or three table-spoonfuls of cold water ; set the sauce- pan on a gentle fire, keep shaking the oysters round and round ; as soon as the butter is melted and the liquor hot, set the saucepan on the side of the stove to let the oysters get warm through—they must never boil, which would make them hard and shrunken. Continue shaking or stirring from time to time. On a hot dish; lay a large slice of toasted bread ; on this deposit the oysters with a spoon ; then pour over them nearly all the gravy, leaving in the saucepan a table-spoonful or so, into which the grit and sediment will have settled. The Razor Fish or Solen should also be cooked like oysters, and makes most excellent and strengthening soup. Clams figure very conspicuously in American bills of fare. We have never seen them sent to table in Great Britain, though they are to be had for the gathering on many spots. “Clams,” observes Soyer, “are a species of cockle, only found in Devonshire, Cornwall, parts of Wales, and on the west coast of Ireland and Scotland.” “ The fish,” he adds, “ is much superior in flavour to the oyster, and if eaten raw, should be about the same size ; but if larger, should be made into soup, or cooked in the same way as the oyster.” Stewed Cla?ns (American).—Put the clams in a stew- pan, with about the same quantity of water as the juice of the clams. Boil twenty-five or thirty minutes ; remove all the scum that rises, and season with butter and a dust of pepper. Hashed Claiiis.-—Chop clams fine; stew them in their own juice and a little water. Boil fifteen minutes, and season with butter and pepper. After taking up the hash, thicken the gravy with one or two egg yolks, and lay bits of toasted bread round the dish. Clams may also be fried in batter, or with egg and bread-crumbs. VEGETABLES. Boiling is the ordinary mode of cooking vegetables. The rule is to throw them (whether roots, foliage, flowers, or unripe seeds) into cold water, after trimming or other preparation ; to let them lie there, if shrivelled or droop- ing, until they have recovered their natural crispness ; then to throw them into rain or river water, or other water made soft artificially by the addition of a small ])inch of carbonate of soda ; to keep them boiling without the lid (with roots this is immaterial, though it is one means of keeping greens a good colour) ; to remove all scum as it rises ; to cook them enough ; and to take them up as soon as they are done through, instead of leaving them to seethe, and lose their natural juices in the water. To this there are cxcej)tions. Peas and beans may be thrown into cold water when they are dried, but when green are best not thrown into cold water; and the former should be boiled in the least quantity of water possible. Potatoes require different treatment, according to their kind and the soil in which they grew. Very mealy or large potatoes, if thrown into boiling water, will fall to pieces outside, while still raw in the centre ; while small firm or waxy varieties (like the old Dutch) are best thrown into boiling salt water. If you buy potatoes of the grower, he will often tell you what treatment suits them. At any rate, an experiment both ways will soon settle the difficulty. But the qualities of potatoes vary, not only with soil and kind, but also with the period in the season. We have known potatoes, waxy and watery when first dug up, become light and floury in February or March, after the eyes had sprouted perhaps three or four inches. The reason is plain : superabundant moisture had been drawn off, and the starch, which forms one of its component elements, had had time to mature itself. How to cook Potatoes.—It is well known that a good potato may be spoiled by bad cooking; and, by good management, a bad one may be rendered comparatively good. In fact, no vegetable depends more on the cooking than a potato. In the first place, if the skin is taken off them before boiling, it should not be peeled, but scraped, for the following reason : if peeled, it is reduced in size considerably; besides, the outside removed is the very best portion of the root. An iron saucepan is preferable to a tin one for cooking them, as it prevents their boiling so fast; but the best way is, first to wash them very clean, then to put them on the fire with just cold water enough to cover them ; when it has begun to boil, throw in a handful of salt, and add a pint of cold water, which checks their boiling, and gives them time to be done through, without allowing them to crack. As soon as done, rather under than over, which may be ascertained with a fork, pour the water off them, and replace the pan on the fire for a short time, until the remaining moisture is evaporated. If not immediately wanted, do not place the lid upon them, or the steam will be confined, but cover them with a cloth. New potatoes require great caution not to over-boil them, or they will be tasteless and watery. Mashed Potatoes.—After boiling as above, peel them into a bowl, mash them immediately with a wooden spoon, adding salt, a small quantity of hot milk, and a little bit of butter oiled. When served on the dish, it will be an improvement to brown their surface before the fire, or in a gentle oven ; or they may be put in a buttered tin or pudding-basin, set into the oven, and then turned out on to the dish. Stewed Onions {Oignons e7t Matelote).—Peel some large onions, taking care not to cut their tops too short, in order that they may not fall to pieces. Throw them into boil- ing water, and let them boil a minute or two. Take out and drain them ; lay them side by side in a stew-pan, with a lump of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt. In another saucepan, brown flour in butter, with a little chopped onion ; when nicely coloured, moisten with common claret. Burgundy, or cider; let the sauce thicken, and then pour it through a strainer over the onions in the stew-pan, which you will set upon the fire, and let them stew gently. Give the finishing touch with a gherkin chopped small, and a dash of vinegar. In your dish lay as many slices of toast as there are onions ; put an onion on each, and pour the sauce over the whole. The sauce should be thick, and is improved by the addition of strong stock or good gravy to the wine or cider, on mixing it with the browned flour and butter. Stewed Turtiips {^Mitonnage-'ajix Navets).—A French form of mashed turnips, which might be called with propriety, turnip sauce, and is very nice with boiled mutton, veal, or poultry. Peel turnips, cut them in pieces, and set them on to boil in salted water. When they are