GARDENING. 136 proportionably high. Probably after the age of seventy-five the mortality tables can scarcely be much depended on, and the correct premium for the risk can, consequently, only be approximated to. In fact, it may be said to be an even chance whether a person of that age will survive the short term prior to the bonus, or not, the assurance of bonuses being generally deferred until the day to be survived is not very far distant, say a year or two. It becomes then a toss-up, so to speak, whether the life survive the necessary period, or not, and a premium of ^50 per cent, has been quoted and paid in such cases for an assurance for a short term. An arrangement in some cases of this sort is occasionally entered into for a return of a proportion of this high rate, if the life survives the required term. Such an assurance as this is a perfectly fair and a wise GARDENING.—VI. THE TOOL-HOUSE. A TOOL-HOUSE of some kind or other must be provided in every garden, or you will invariably find your imple- ments out of order, and a great deal of time will be wasted in looking for them when they are required for use. Such a structure need only be of the very simplest kind; all that you want is to keep out the wet, and if you have no little outhouse convertible for the purpose, you may put up at a trifling expense, a small lean-to shed against the garden wall, in any odd corner, which may be covered with thatch or tile, or even felt, which, if of good quality, will keep out the wet for a considerable time. The shed should be fitted up inside with shelves and one on the part of the policy-holder, who thus makes sure of receiving half of his expected bonus, instead of running the risk of the whole being lost to his family, but on the part of the company such a transaction becomes almost tantamount to gambling, and seems to be beyond the pale of legitimate assurance business. Many persons will naturally be very curious to know how it comes to pass that such heavy bonuses as those referred to above can be paid by any company. That they are paid is, however, matter of undoubted fact, and the cause is not to be found, as some might imagine, in any unfair calculations as the basis of individual pre- miums, nor to any great extent, in the advantages gained by adopting only selected lives, or lives of the better class. What the principles are which arc involved in the com- putations by which profits arc estimated and assessed, although somew'hat complicated, we shall endeavour to explain in our next. Considering the practical importance of the whole subject, we trust that our readers will not shrink from a careful study of the somewhat obscure and complicated topics which it involves. drawers for stowing away mats, netting, and the like when out of use, as well as for keeping together shreds, nails, flower-sticks, and so forth, all ready for use at a moment’s notice. Then again, the walls or sides should be fur- nished with nails, hooks, pegs, brackets, and supports, upon which every tool may be hung, or put away, when not in use. Each tool should be carefully cleaned and returned to this house as soon as it is done with, for nothing is more destructive than to permit them to lie about wherever they were last used, with dirt adhering to them, and exposed to the destroying influences of the weather. It is important to keep the shed as dry as pos- sible, for the damp soon rots the mats, and nets, and covers iron and steel tools with rust, especially knives and scissors. The larger implements, such as the mowing- machine, barrowq &c., might stand in the centre of the building. Our illustrations show the best forms of several of the most ordinary garden tools, the uses of which we proceed briefly to describe, employing in our description only the simplest terms.