HOUSEHOLD LAW. 130 general effect. The arrangement ought to appear perfectly careless and hap-hazard, all sizes and all shapes turning in every possible way; but the eye must be satisfied and the colours contrasted, so as to give a good general effect. The black ground is left distinct between these, the pictures never touching. They are afterwards firmly pasted on, and finally the screen is varnished. The best varnish for the purpose is the ordinary spirit varnish. In pasting the pictures, one side is done at a time. After varnishing, the screen must be left where it can remain undisturbed. It will require two or three coats of varnish, each of which must dry thoroughly before another is applied. When the surface is quite smooth and even, the work is finished. A great deal of previous consideration is required to produce a felicitous result. For instance, the light and shade of the prints must be studied. If they are laid on in straight rows, alternately light and dark, as some lay them, a chess-board effect is produced which is most undesirable ; or again, if they are placed in stars, a light one in the centre of a group of dark ones stands out too prominently. Effects like these may be observed in patchwork, where they are purposely produced, such as the box pattern. Pictures that are all square, or can be cut in squares, may be arranged in stars, as in Fig. 2, but the lights and shadows must be carefully varied. If they are cut in diamond shape they may be arranged as in Fig. 3. A strong solution of gum, mixed with a little flour, is per- haps the best cement. ALBUMS AND SCRAP-BOOKS. Albums and scrap-books may be made in almost endless variety. For a gift-book especially, nothing could be prettier or better, than an album devised on the Chinese plan. Get a set of strong cards, of whatever size you like ; they may be as much as twelve inches square. Lance holes with a penknife at each of the corners, and run a piece of coloured ribbon through after the fashion of a fan, having first bound the edges all round with ribbon, put on with a strong solution of gum. Fig. 4 shows the manner of doing this. The ribbon is gummed to each card where it crosses it. Make your solution of gum very strong, but do not use it profusely ; gum the cards together securely, but merely so as to attach the ribbon. After gumming down the ribbon, the cards not being more than the least possible space apart, leave them spread upon a table, covered with clean paper, and press them under a heavy weight. The next day the gum will be dry. One or more pictures can be arranged on each side of every card, and the covers may be ornamented with silk or moire antique, sewn together at the edges, and put on after the ribbon joints. The merit of this book is, that it will open like a common book either way, back and front, or unfold like a panorama. It forms a pretty case for photographic portraits, which may be thus inserted:—Soak a portrait in cold water till it comes off the card. Let it dry, and then attach it with gum to your album. Passe-partouts containing photo- graphs may be made to form an album of this kind. Beautiful photographic albums have been made by taking a number of cards of one size and mounting various sized photographs of fancy subjects upon them, and then design- ing appropriate borders with a pen and Indian ink ; for example, round “ Moses found by Pharaoh’s daughter,” a border of bulrushes ; around heads, the outline of a mirror or a frame of beads will have a pretty effect. Round the well-known subject of the Christian Martyr, a border of lilies would be appropriate. In filling scrap-books, if the book is not already so prepared, every other leaf must be cut out, because the pictures pasted in will otherwise swell the book beyond the dimensions of the binding. To make a book for yourself, in a homely style, take six sheets of paper folded one inside the other. Stitch them through the centre, putting in the needle at c, taking it through A and B, back to C, and there knotting the two ends together. Fig. 5. Then take another set of six sheets, and so on until you have enough for a book, stitch the whole of them through in three places, as shown in Fig. 6, first at A, knotting it together behind, then at B and at c. The book ought now to be pressed in a carpenter’s bench or press, the back upwards. Next glue the backs well, and attach three strips of linen rags, also well glued, as shown in Fig. 7. Afterwards glue the outside of them and attach the covers, in the way shown in Fig. 8. After the sides have been pressed and dried twenty-four hours, a strip of fancy paper, or leather, or velvet is put over the back, as shown by the dotted line A, covering over the sides and corners of the covers, as shown by the dotted line B; these are turned down inside the covers and finished off neatly. The paper or silk to cover the sides is now to be put on. Albums may also be made very pretty by binding them in embossed cards, or cards covered with silk. The way to manage this is to put the back of velvet on the book before you put on the sides ; or velvet enough to line the cover may be carried across the whole side of the book. The fly-leaf, or first leaf of a book ought to be nicely gummed or pasted down to the inside of the cover as soon as the binding is otherwise finished, and dried again. HOUSEHOLD LAW.—IV. HUSBAND AND WIFE. Of private relations subsisting between human beings, the first in importance is that of master and servant; the second, that of marriage, which, in the words of a great lawyer, includes the reciprocal rights and duties of husband and wife. What these rights and duties are, it will be in this paper our task to discuss. In the first place, however, it will be necessary to state how and by whom marriage may be contracted. The English law looks upon marriage in no other light than as a civil contract; and the law applies to it gene- rally the ordinary principles which attach to other con- tracts, allowing it to be good and valid in all cases in which thejparties, at the time of making it, were, in the first place, willing to contract; secondly, able to contract; and lastly, did contract in the proper forms required by law. The first proviso we need not discuss. As to the second, all persons are able to contract mar- riage, unless they labour under some particular disabilities and incapacities. The first of these disabilities is a prior marriage, of which marriage the husband or wife is still alive. The second is want of age. The latter proviso holds good in all other contracts on account of the imbecility of judg- ment in the parties contracting. The age fixed by law for consent to matrimony, is fourteen in males and twelve in females, and supposing a marriage contracted by persons under these ages respectively, either of them upon coming to the age of consent aforesaid, may disagree and declare the marriage void, but if at the age of consent they con- tinue to agree together, they need not be married again. What is above stated must be understood as applying solely to the actual marriage contract; but a promise to marry—which, like other contracts, will give a right of action for damages in case of its breach—is not binding unless the party who makes it be of full age, viz., twenty- one. And when two persons, one of full age and the other under, enter into a contract of this kind, the former is liable to an action for damages if it be broken, whilst against the minor under similar circumstances no action will lie. Another incapacity arises from-^vant of reason, without which the matrimonial contract is not valid ; this will not, however, be cause for divorce if the insanity arises after marriage ; so that, as the law stands, the marriage of