.359 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. animal. The treatment consists in opening the pustules freely, and also puncturing the skin to let out the dark blood, then washing the skin with a soft sponge and warm water, and applying the following soothing ointment Camphor, powdered ... ... ... i part. Mercurial ointment ... ... ... i part. Elder ointment ... ... ... ... i par). The sponging and ointment are to be repeated daily, and liquor arsenicalis given, as already described, and with the same precautions, till a cure be effected. Canker of the Ear is one of the commonest complaints of dogs, and we believe in every case it is caused by foul, improper, or too high feeding. There are two kinds of canker recognised, and known as internal and external; but internal canker appears to be the only one which can be called a disease, the external canker—a canker of the flap of the ear—being never found unless in conjunction with the internal complaint, and being evidently caused by the creature continually shaking the head, or scratch- ing the ear from the internal irritation, till the continual violence causes a sore, which degenerates into an ulcer of more or less extent. The treatment formerly recom- mended was almost inoperative, and cruel in the extreme. The diseased parts are still often cut away, without the least effect, as the internal irritation again causes the con- tinual shaking of the ear, which leads to the disorder. For internal canker many practitioners—and even Mr. Youatt—prescribe dressings which make the poor dog howl with agony, and, as this writer confesses, do not seem to have much success. The first symptom of internal canker is the animal constantly shaking the head or scratching the ear. In worse, or more developed cases, there is a-blackish dis- charge visible within the ear, with a smell which Mr. Mayhew compares to decayed cheese. The remedy is vegetable diet (in nearly every case of canker there has been too much of flesh meat), and a dressing composed of equal parts of extract of lead and water. This is to be carefully applied by two persons, one holding the dog’s head in one hand, and having the root of the ear in the hollow between the first finger and thumb of the other. The assistant then pours the dressing (half a teaspoonful to a teaspoonful) into the ear, when the person who holds t*he dog closes the ear and works it with his fingers, that the liquid may penetrate thoroughly. This dressing is soothing in its character, and gives no pain. As the lead solution makes a mark wherever it touches the clothes, a coarse apron should be wo-rn, and when both ears are done the creature should be suddenly thrown to a distance, that he may not splash any on the operator’s garments. The dressing is to be used three times a day. External canker being different in its nature, and due to mechanical causes, needs different treatment. The first thing is to get a cap of linen or calico, and tie over the creature’s head and ears, to prevent further irritation by shaking or scratching; and the only application needed will be the soothing mercurial camphor ointment prescribed above for one of the varieties of mange. If the shaking of the ear has produced actual abscesses —as it sometimes will—within the flap, the treatment is the same in principle. The sac must be slit thoroughly open, a small pledget of lint, soaked in the extract of lead solution, kept in it for a day or two, when the wearing of the cap—to prevent further irritation until the internal canker be removed and the animal no longer shakes its head—will complete the cure. The dog is also sometimes subject to malignant cancer in various parts, analogous to the same dreaded human disease. No cure of such cases seems possible, though they may sometimes be so alleviated by a skilled prac- titioner that the animal’s life may be spared. .Sometimes excision may be effectual at an early stage. DOMESTIC MEDICINE.—XII. BRONCHITI.S. This disease is one that it behoves us to describe carefully, because it is a good deal before the public, and really is one of the most fatal diseases tliat human nature has to contend with in this climate. The large mortality of our winter weeks is chiefly due to this cause. In very cold winters the mortality will go up to numbers which are more suggestive of plagues than anything else. Medical men have long knowm that cold was a very deadly thing. Dr. Heberden, at the end of last century, showed that a cold winter was almost twice as fatal as a mild one ; and the diseases which the cold causes are of the nature we are about to describe—bronchitis, inflammation of the lungs, &c. The facts of Dr. Heberden’s paper, which was published in the “ Philosophical Transactions,” were very striking and instructive. He compared the number of deaths which took place in London in January, 1795, with the number that occurred in January, 1796. The January, 1795, was a very severe month, and that of 1796 was a very mild month. Now let the reader mark the facts which are thus stated by Sir Thomas Watson, in his Lectures. “ Of these two successive winters one was the coldest, and the other the warmest, of which any regular record had been kept in this country. In the month of January, 179$, the thermometer, upon an average, stood at 23® in the morning, and at 29.4° in the afternoon— always, you will observe, below the freezing-point. In the same month, in 1796, it stood at 43.5° in the morning, and at 50“ in the afternoon—always much above the freezing-point. The average difference in the two months was more than 20°. In the five weeks, beginning upon January, 1795, there were 2,823 deaths. In the five weeks beginning upon January, 1796, there were only 1,471. The difference (1,352) is enormous. The mortality in the former year was nearly double that in the latter.” The mortality to old people was very striking. In the January of 1795 there were in London 717 deaths of persons above sixty years old, while in January, 1796, there were only 153 such deaths, or scarcely more than, one-fifth of the former number. Note further—what is to the point for our present purpose—that deaths from diseases of the chest were very fatal in the severe month, and very slightly so in the mild one. The deaths from : what they called asthma—which, doubtless, were for the most part deaths from bronchitis, were 249 in January, 1795, and only 29 in January, 1796. The deaths from what they called then consumption—which would include many from bronchitis—were 825 in 1795 and 342 in 1796. But since then there has been a uniform experience of the mortality of cold winters, and yet there is a common notion abroad that cold is a healthy thing. Some people come up to you on a day in which you can scarcely keep warmth in you and say, “What afine healthy day this is 1” And there is a proverb which embodies the same notion, that “ A green yule makes a fat churchyard.” There should be no mistake about the deadliness of cold. There may be a great deal of sickness in mild, muggy winters, but there will be less death; and it should be said that cold and cholera are not very unlike each other in their power to kill. It is true that it is chiefly the old and the young and the v/eakly that die from cold, but these are just the classes that die from anything. The weather that kills them is deadly weather, and should be guarded against. As we have said, one C)i the great diseases by which the old and the young and the weakly are cut off in winter is Bronchitis.—We have already described the disease as it affects children ; but it is entitled to another notice, as affecting grown-up and old people. A very bad cold in the chest generally means more or less of bronchitis—that I is to say, of inflammation of the tubes which go from the