THE DOG. 12 back to the farthest period which we can trace, there has not been, a wild camel on the face of the earth: it is only known in its subjection to man’s use. Further, it is wonderfully adapted to his use, and it has on its knees callosities which fit it for the constant kneeling down which is required to receive the burden or the rider, but which, in a state of nature, it would never require. Well, the reader may think, there seems nothing strange in this ; we all know how constant use will harden our own bodies, as is proved by the horny hand of the mechanic. Yes, this is true; but while the hand of the mechanic’s infa7it is soft and delicate as that of the imperial prince’s, it is not so with the callosities on the knees of the camel: the young ca7)iel is born with thejnj and to those who are not too proud to receive it, the conclusion seems irresistible, that the animal was created by a gracious Providence expressly for the use of man. And when we consider the matchless sagacity of the dog, his bodily strength and power of attack, which make him so formidable, but combined with that marvellous affection and disposition to obedience, which put all at the service of the human race, we find it far easier to believe that he also was received at the hand of a THE BULL-TERRIER. white, or black and tan. The muzzle is fine and sharp, with a “ foxy ” look about it, the eye bright and sparkling with intelligence, the ears nicely rounded, and well falling over—we hate to see them cropped or the tail cut. The tail is fine, the limbs graceful but muscular, and the whole animal “ tight ” and well made The black and tan smooth terrier is often bred very small under the name of the “toy” terrier, and some animals have fetched extraordinary prices. We cannot say we admire these little beasts. They are excessively delicate, and difficult to rear, often having not even strength, to “ grow their own hair ” till nearly at maturity, and con- sequently growing up in a state of miserable nudity it is painful to witness. The Scotch or rough terrier is a hardier animal, and the hair makes the body and muzzle appear of very different shape, but if this be put back, the muzzle, as in all the varieties, will be found fine, though the dog is rather more robustly made altogether. This breed is not quite so lively as the preceding, but it is of great and dauntless courage. The broken-haired terrier is mid-way between the two, the coat being moderately long, and of hard, wiry THE SKYE TERRIER. Creator, than that man, in the course of a century or two, made him out of a wolf! and that if the two be identical, it is more likely that the wolf is a feral dog, than that our faithful guardians are wolves reclaimed. The plan which we propose to pursue in these papers is, first to describe the different varieties of dogs, noticing their special pecu- liarities and the use for which each is [best fitted, and pointing out clearly what are the “points” to be specially attended to in the choice of an animal of each individual species. We shall then proceed to give instructions as to their rearing and feeding, both as regards the sort of food to be given, and the system of giving it, as there can be no doubt that information on these subjects is very much needed ; and we shall also describe fully what have been found to be the best methods of “breaking” dogs and training them for the special purposes for which they may be intended. And first must be named the terriers as being a class of universally popular dogs, while the hereditary enmity of the whole race to vermin makes them very useful. They all share this feeling, but while the smooth English terrier will always pursue a flying rat, he often declines a real fight. This is not, however, the case with well-bred dogs, which, as an old rat-catcher said, “never die in debt.” The smooth English terrier is most prized when pure texture, yet close to the body. This is a splendid vermin dog. The Skye is well known as the longest in proportion and hairiest of all dogs. He is always kept as a pet, though possessing a good share, when well bred, of the courage of his race. The delicate, white, woolly-coated dogs, often called Skyes, are nothing but mongrels, the coat of the true Skye being always of a hairy character. This species is more or less good at vermin, though his long hair hindering his sight, gives him less chance than other dogs. Our illustration shows a specimen of this variety of dog. There is a Scotch breed known as the “ Dandie Din- mont,’’ celebrated by Sir Walter Scott, which somewhat resembles the Skye in length of body, but has a shorter coat, and the legs are without “ feather,” while the Skye is covered to the toes. It has the squarest muzzle of all the terriers, and is also characterised by a downward curve in the middle of the back. This terrier, as described by Sir Walter, is perhaps the “ gamest ” of the lot, and certain death to anything “ that ever cam’ wi’ a hairy skin on’t.” All the terriers are good-tempered, faithful, companion- able dogs, and from their “ wide:awake ” qualities, very serviceable to awake a larger, but more sleepy animal. The bull-terrier is a larger and more powerful dog, obtained by crossing the bull-dog with the old English