CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. THE TOILETTE.—VII. THE HAIR AND ITS MANAGEMENT. Hair always has been accounted an orna- ment. It is surprising, however, considering ' how much time, trouble, and money are lavished upon it, that the public are so utterly at sea in the nineteenth century, not only as to its structure and its physiology, but the mode in which the commonest agencies act upon it for good or for evil. The general idea seems to be that the hair is a tube which can imbibe nutritious material presented to it from within the body through the blood, or without, through the medium of pomades or washes ; that it can also, if cut across, let out the nutrient juices it contains, so that it subsequently dies and falls out. This is about the best description that could be given of hair- dressers’ physiology, and upon such hypo- thetical assumptions are based many prepara- tions, which too frequently do an infinity of harm to the hair of those who use them. It would matter very little if the prevailing fashions of dyeing, bleaching, and curling, and the widespread employment of spiritu- ous and stimulating lotions and pomades were in all cases devoid of harm, but the reverse is the case; for these things are often most injudiciously and unfitly used and done, both as regards time and the nature of the hair disorder. The exist- ence of so much ignorance in regard to the managem.ent of the hair is readily ac- 1 counted for by the fact that it has as yet received no care or attention at the hands of those who are possessed of scientific knowledge. The physician deems ' it a topic scarcely fit to employ his time and thought, and hence it is left to be discussed by men who, nine cases out of ten, I know nothing of the true struc- ture of hair, and certainly less of its life under different con- ditions, both of health and dis- ease, and who consequently I cannot be acquainted with the way in which its vigour may be promoted, or its decay stopped. Now and again a man may make what is generally termed a “’lucky hit,” but lucky hitters 1 are not always right; and often ! by their free and easy handling S of remedies of which they know i little, do an infinity of harm. I The hair, and the mode in which it has been arranged, has had its political, its religious, and its social significance. It would be interesting, but out of place, to go into that subject here. Suffice it to say, that our pur- pose is to give an account as brief as possible of what the hair really is, what should be done to it in health to keep it in a healthy condition, what are the more common diseases to which it is liable, and the means to be adopted to prevent these diseases, or bring back the hair to its proper state of healthfulness when it deviates therefrom. N ow, as regards the structure of the hair, a short de- scription may suffice. The hairs, seated in little depres- 16—N.s. sions of the skin called follicles, are made up of cells and fibres, the latter being formed by the flattening out of the former. Human hair is not hollow, though the central portion is less dense than the outer portion. In each hair follicle at its upper part, two little fat glands open, so that the hair shaft is lubricated by the fatty matter secreted by the glands. The cut annexed. Fig. i, represents a section of skin a good deal magnified, so as to show the hair in its follicle, with the two glands, which look like bunches of grapes, opening into its upper part, and also a sweat gland running by its side. Hairs are technically said to have a shaft, which is the part external to the follicle; a root, which is buried in the skin; and a knob, or the termination of the root, which is attached to a little projection at the very bottom of the follicle from whence the material out of which the hair cells are formed comes. The hair shaft is further made up of a central portion or pith, where the cells are loosely packed together, and an outer portion, where the cells are flattened out into fibres very closely packed together. All this may be seen in the cut. Fig. 2. In the centre is the hair with its root and knob ; above, the hair is cut across, so that only the beginning of the shaft is seen ; in the centre is the pith, and outside the cortex, as it is termed. Below, the cells are very plainly visible, and these a little higher up are seen to be flattening out into fibres. If we boil a hair in strong acid, the fibres separate very quickly. In the pith a little air is contained, as a rule. The colour of the hair depends upon the presence ot very minute particles of pigment scattered in varying amount throughout its substance. Now^ it will at once be perceived that the hair does not grow by the reception of nourishment through its centre part ; but the cells which go to form the pith and the fibres of the outer portion, are originally manufactured at the very bottom of the hair follicle, and are pushed up from below —being flattened out more or less into fibres as they advance —by others which continuously form in succession. If, there- fore, we desire to increase the growth of the hair, or to repair damage done to it, we must operate—so to speak—upon that portion of the hair follicle where the hair cells are formed. It is of little use to try and rub nourish- ing material into the head, rather must we improve the blood which supplies the material out of which the hair cells are originally formed. The hair grows at the rate of about one to one and a-half lines a week, or six or seven inches in the year. The average length of hair in women is perhaps between two and three feet. It has been calculated that if the beard of a man continued to grow from its first appearance till death, at seventy years of age it would be about twenty-seven feet in length. As a matter of fact, however, such a length could never be reached, owing to the continual falling away of separate Fig. 2.