CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 215 DOMESTIC MEDICINE.—V, ERUPTIVE FEVERS (coniinued from p. 187). Small-Pox would occur in childhood even more fre- quently than the other diseases, but for vaccination. Hence we may notice it here. Supposing an epidemic of small-pox to be abroad, all un-vaccinated children should be vaccinated ; grown-up persons and children over seven who have not been re-vaccinated should be re-vaccinated, and should avoid contact with persons affected with small-pox. We shall first describe the symptoms of an attack, and then give some general account of its course and treatment. It is not easy, while a person is sickening for small-pox, to be quite sure about the fact. About twelve days elapse after the poison of small-pox has been received, before decided symptoms show themselves. At the end of this time there is shivering, often severe, and vomiting, and a general feeling of lassitude and illness. Another significant symp- tom is pain in the back, often so acute as to absorb the patient’s attention, and lead him to think that his back has been hurt. There is also heat of skin, thirst, and loss of appetite. About two days after the shivering, the eruption begins to appear ; first as little red points, which gradually ripen into the spots of small-po.x. These points enlarge, in three or four days a little fluid begins to appear at the top of them, and they go on to ripen into the fully developed vesicle of small-pox, containing first a clear fluid, and then small-pox matter. The spots appear first in the face, neck, and wrists, secondly on the trunk, and lastly on the lower extremities; they fill and ripen by the ninth day, at which time the pustules break and crusts or scabs form, which begin to fall off in four or five days more. The severity of the disease depends on the amount of the eruption, which is as a rule less when small-pox occurs after vaccination; and it has been observed that the more vaccination marks there are, and the deeper they are, the less severe is the dis- ease. If the small-pox is slight, the spots remain distinct; if, on the other hand, the spots are numerous, they run into each other. The case is then said to be one of co7iflHent small-pox. Occurring in the unvaccinated it is a horrible disease, and fatal in more than one in three cases. Treatmetit.—The domestic treatment of a patient with small-pox consists in the administration of light pleasant drinks and simple diet, such as gruel, weak beef tea, milk and tea, barley-water, plain water, tepid sponging; in frequent changes of welLaired linen, and in keeping the patient in a well ventilated room, and in a bed with- out curtains and that does not unduly heat the patient. The room should be as thinly furnished and as free from curtains and carpets as possible, as the contagio7t of small- pox is very intense, and gathers about such things. For the relief of irritation in the eruption, olive oil may be applied, or equal parts of glycerine and rose-water, after bathing with tepid water. The medical treatment will of course devolve upon a medical man. In places where a medical man is not to be had, the above treatment is the most important. Violent purging should be abstained from. If the patient has been unvaccinated—and, indeed, in any severe case—the greatest danger sets in about the eleventh day of the disease, and the eighth of the eruption. The fever then increases, and the swelling of the skin and face is greatest, and renders the patient both uncomfort- able and most unseemly to behold. Delirium, twitchings, or diarrhoea are bad symptoms at this stage. If the anti-vaccinationists could see a case at this stage of the disease often, they would talk more gratefully and sensibly about vaccination. The patient now requires to be well supported by strong beef tea, and if much depressed, and the spots do not fill well, by wine. To prevent the Disease spreaditig.—Let every person in the house be re-vaccinated, and the patient isolated as much as possible. Clothes must either be destroyed or dealt with as we have recommended in the case of scarlet fever, and exposed thereafter for a considerable time to the air. The scabs contain the matter of the disease, and, as they fall off, should be cai'efully collected and burnt. TYPHOID AND TYPHUS, AND INFANTILE INTERMITTENT FEVERS. Before leaving the eruptive fevers, we must notice typhoid and typhus fevers, not because they occur so frequently in childhood as the fevers we have already noticed, but because they are accompanied with an erup- tion, and will be better understood, perhaps, if treated in this connection. They resemble the other eruptive diseases of which we have treated, not only in having eruptions attended with fever, but in the fact that persons do not, as a rule, suffer twice from them. It is well to impress on the readers of a popular book on diseases, that typhoid and typhus fevers are essentially different diseases ; that they are different in their causes, different in their symptoms, different in their duration, different in their risks, and especially different in the degree of their contagiousness. The difference of these diseases has been made out in a great measure by our own distinguished countryman. Sir William Jenner, physician to Her Majesty Queen Victoria. As typhoid is the more common disease of the two, especially in childhood, we shall treat of it first. Typhoid Fever—or, as it is called when it affects children. Infantile Re?nittent Fever—often sets in insidiously, with general signs of illness, such as headache, great muscular weakness and soreness, heat of skin, and furred tongue. If these symptoms persist for several days without cough, or rheumatic pains in joints, or sore throat to give them explanation ; and if to these symptoms is added more or less diarrhoea, and in the course of eight or ten days a slight eruption of red spots or pimples, which disappear under pressure, then it is pretty clear that the case is one of typhoid fever. The spots occur on the abdomen, chest, and back. They may be very few in number, not more than two or three, or they may be as many as thirty or forty. If the spots are very numerous, and the eruption continues, the disease is generally severe, or at least pro- longed. The eruption does not come out all at once, but spots show themselves generally about the eighth day, and on the following days others appear. Each spot has a duration of from three to fifteen days. Muscular weak- ness, fever or heat of skin, diarrhoea and the eruption of rose or red spots, and a furred tongue tending to become dry, constitute the principal features of this disease. As the disease proceeds, more or less delirium occurs. The diarrhoea is a very important and peculiar symptom. It depends upon the fact,, that in this disease the small intestine is almost invariably affected. The little glands in it are either swollen or inflamed, or actually ulcerated. In this way diarrhoea is caused, and the absorption of food into the system is interfered with. Hence, the patients lose flesh fast, and often become extremely emaciated. The appearance of the motions is almost always unhealthy and relaxed ; they are very offensive, of a peculiar yellow-ochrey colour, and they separate on standing into a supernatant fluid and a flaky sediment. The intestine is sometimes so much ulcerated as to bleed freely—the blood appearing in the motions. Consistently with this state of the bowels, there is generally tender- ness and some swelling of the abdomen (stomach). When the disease occurs in children, it is not so fatal as in adults, and it is characterised by remarkable remissions of—that is to say, improvements in—the symptoms. The child who has been hot and restless, and perhaps slightly delirious in the night, is comparatively well about nine or ten in the morning, and remains so for three or four hours. The fever is essentially connected with the state of the intestine : but there may be cough and other complica-