CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 173 once, in order to allow the others to take their proper places. For this purpose a parent should consult some respectable dentist, carefully avoiding all unqualified practitioners, and should be careful to see that all the directions he gives are carried out, and particularly that any mechanical arrangement which may be necessary in order to bring irregular teeth into position, is fairly and fully attended to. Later in life, in addition to the ordinary cleaning of the teeth with tooth-brush and powder, or soap, it is well to pay an occasional visit to the dentist to have the “ tartar,” or earthy matter deposited by the saliva, removed from the front teeth. Even in the most cleanly mouths this is apt to collect and injure the gums, if it does not the teeth also; and, as it is very tenacious, it requires some skill for its removal. At the same time the dentist should be requested to inspect all the teeth, in order to detect the first inroads of disease, so that by careful “ stopping ” the mischief may be arrested. The nature of the stopping to be applied in each case must of course be left to the discre- tion of the dentist, but a patient should on no account consent to the insertion of a cheap “ amalgam ” stopping into any of the front teeth, since this always leads to great dis- coloration of the teeth, and consequent disfigurement. When toothache supervenes upon decayed teeth, recourse must of course be had to the dentist, who may, in favour- able cases, contrive to save the tooth by destroying the nerve and then carefully stop- ping the cavity. Extraction is the last remedy, and has re- cently been robbed of nearly all its horrors by the intro- duction into dental practice of the administration of the nitrous-oxide gas as an anaes- thetic. This gas, when care- fully administered in its pure state, has the power, like chloroform, of rendering the patient perfectly insensible, but has this advantage over chloroform, that the insensi- bility is much shorter, and that recovery from its influ- ence is immediate, and unat- tended with sickness. Many dentists are in the habit of administering this agent for all cases of extraction of teeth, but no person should take this, or any other anaesthetic, without first consulting his ordinary medical attendant. Toothache is perhaps the most agonising pain to which one can be subject. If, from circumstances, immediate recourse cannot be had to a dentist, relief may sometimes be obtained temporarily by the insertion of a pledget of cotton-wool soaked in laudanum into the hollow tooth, and by the application of warm fomentations to the face. Several specific remedies are sold, which are certainly effi- cacious as a temporary application in cases of toothache, and the introduction of a few drops of warm laudanum into the ear often does good. The formation of an abscess around a tooth may be known by the deep-seated throb- Fig. 23. Fig. 24. bing pain it gives rise to, and the extraction of the tooth is the only certain way of obtaining relief. False Teeth are exceedingly healthful, by supplying the lost power of mastication ; and no one who has lost his back teeth should hesitate to have the want supplied arti- ficially, both for his own comfort and also for the pre- servation of the front teeth, upon which an undue amount of work would otherwise be thrown. Artificial teeth can be had of every price, but here, as elsewhere, we would say, avoid an unqualified dentist, whose cheap teeth would be dear at any price, since the purchaser would have no com- fort in wearing them. The question of the necessity for extracting the stumps of teeth must be left to the judgment of the dentist; but if, as often happens, it is advisable to remove some, it will be necessary to wait some weeks be- fore the model of the mouth can be properly taken so as to ensure a proper fit. One caution only need be given with regard to false teeth, that they should always be removable at will, and should invariably be removed from the mouth when the wearer goes to bed. Inflajnmatio7i of the Tonsils con- stitutes one of the common varieties of “ sore throat.” The sufferer experiences pain and difficulty in swallowing, and talks with a peculiar thick voice, which is very characteristic. On looking into the throat the back part of it is seen to be red and inflamed, and the tonsils are found to be almost blocking up the passage. If there is much fever and constitu- tional disturbance a medical man should be consulted at once, but the best domestic treatment consists in fre- quently gargling the throat with hot milk and water, and the application of linseed- meal poultices round the throat. The bowels should be thoroughly relieved with an ordinary aperient, and the patient should be fed with nourishing food, in the form of soup or broth, and will probably be the better for a glass or two of port wine. If an abscess forms in the tonsil, it may produce alarming symptoms of suf- focation by its presence, and a surgeon should be at once called in to open it. An abscess may burst of itself into the throat, and thus give relief, but only after many hours’ suffering. Enlarged Tonsils are often found in young persons of delicate health, and give a peculiarly vacant appearance to the countenance by obliging the sufferer to keep the mouth constantly open, and to breathe heavily. A more serious consequence of enlarged tonsils is, however, the effect upon the chest produced by the imperfect admission of air to the lungs, the tendency to the deformity called “ pigeon-chest ” being common in these cases. The only effectual treatment is for the surgeon to remove a portion of each tonsil; and this can be safely done even in young children.