CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 31 window, this is not absolutely needed; otherwise it must be provided, and is better separate in any case. If this shed be fenced in with wire, so that the fowls may be strictly confined during wet weather, so much the better; for next to bad air, wet is by far the most fruitful source, not only of barrenness, but of illness and death in the poultry-yard. If the space available be very limited- say five or six feet by twelve or sixteen—the whole should be roofed over; when the house will occupy one end of the space, and the rest will form a covered “ run.” But in this case the shed should be so arranged that sun-light may reach the birds during some part of the day. They not only enjoy it, but without it, although adult fowls may be kept for a time in tolerable health, they droop sooner or later, and it is almost impossible to rear healthy chickens. Should the range be wider, a shed from six to twenty feet long and four to eight wide may be reared against the wall. Next the fowl-house will still, for obvious reasons, be the most convenient arrangement, and it is also best fenced in, as before recommended. The whole roof should be in one to look neat, and should project about a foot beyond the enclosed space, to throw the water well off. To save the roof drippings from splash- ing in, a guttei'-shoot will of course be provided, and the wire should be boarded up a foot from the ground. All this being carried out properly, the covered “run” ought at all times to be perfectly dry. Fig. I. a Broad shelf, eighteen inches high, b Perch, four inches above. c Nests, open at top and in front. The best flooring for the fowl-house is concrete made with strong, fresh-slaked hydraulic lime and pounded “ clinkers,” put down hot, well trodden once a day for a week, and finally smoothed. The process is trouble- some, but the result is a floor which is not only very clean in itself, but easily kept so. Trodden earth will also answer very well. The floor of the shed may be the same, but, on the whole, it is preferable there to leave the natural loose earth, or cover it with sand, which the fowls delight to scratch in. Cleanliness in?ist be attended to. In the house it is easily secured by laying a board under the perch, which can be scraped clean every morning in a moment, and the air the fowl breathes thus kept perfectly pure. Or the droppings may be taken up daily with a small hoe and a housemaid’s common dustpan, after which a handful of ashes or sand lightly sprinkled will make the house all it should be. There is another most excellent plan for preserving cleanliness in the roosting-house, for which we are in- debted to “ The Canada Farmer,” and which is shown in Fig. I. A broad shelf, a, is fixed at the back of the the house, and the perch, b, placed four or five inches above it, a foot from the wall. The nests, c, are conve- niently placed on the ground underneath, and need no top, whilst they are perfectly protected from defilement and are also well shaded, to the great delight of the hen. The shelf is scraped clean every morning with the greatest ease and comfort, on account of its convenient height, and slightly sanded afterwards ; whilst the floor of the house is never polluted at all by the roosting birds. The broad shelf has yet another recommendation in the perfect protection it affords from upward draughts of air. The covered “ run ” should be raked clean two or three times a week, and dug over whenever it looks sodden or gives any offensive smell. Even this is not sufficient. Three or four times a year, two or three inches deep— in fact, the whole polluted soil—must be removed, and replaced by fresh earth, ashes, or sand, as the case may be. If the floor be hard, there must be kept under the shed a heap of dry dust or sifted ashes, for the fowls to roll in and cleanse themselves in their own peculiar manner, which should be renewed as often as it becomes damp or foul from use. If chickens be a part of the intended plan, a separate compartment should be provided for the sitting hens : but this win be further treated of in a subsequent article. Many will wish to know what space is necessary. The “run’’for the fowls should certainly be as large as can be afforded ; an extensive range is not only better for their health, but saves both trouble and food, as they will to a great extent forage for themselves. Very few, however, can command this ; and poultry may be kept almost anywhere by bearing in mind the one important point, that the smaller the space in which they are con- fined, the greater and more constant attention must be bestowed upon the cleanliness of their domain. They decline rapidly in health and produce if kept on foul ground. If daily attention be given to this matter, a covered shed, ten or twelve feet long by six feet wide, may be made to suffice for half a dozen fowls without any open run at all. By employing a layer of dry earth as a deodoriser, which is turned over every day and renewed once a week, the National Poultry Company kept such a family in each pen of their late large esta- blishment at Bromley. These pens did not exceed the size mentioned, yet the adult fowls were in the highest health and condition ; and, with birds thus confined, the company took many prizes at first-class shows. Poultry-keeping, therefore, is within the reach of all. The great thing is purity, which must be secured, either by space, or in default of that, by care: hardy fowls will sometimes thrive in spite of draughts, exposure, and scanty food ; but the strongest birds speedily succumb to bad management in this particular, which is perhaps the most frequent cause of failure. It should also be remarked that poultry thus confined will require a diffe- rent diet to those kept more at liberty j but this will be more fully explained by-and-bye. If the run be on the limited scale described, dry earth is decidedly the best deodoriser. It is, howevei', seldom at the command of those who have little space to spare, and sifted ashes an inch deep, spread over the floor of the whole shed, will answer very well. The ashes should be raked every other morning, and renewed at least every fortnight, or oftener if possible. Of course, the number of fowls must be limited ; they should not exceed five or six ; and unless a second shed of the same size can be allowed, the rearing of chickens should not be attempted.