CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 243 In the interim, crawling brings every limb into play in a manner proportionate to an infant’s strength. The best dress for the crawling age is one in which little French children are usually attired—a sort of knickerbocker suit, warm and loose, with trousers and vest all in one piece. The over-all pinafore, so much in favour in our nurseries, is a capital contrivance for keep- ing the under-garments clean, but sadly impedes the free movement of the limbs, by being apt to get twisted round the child’s legs, and it should always be taken off when they crawl. The stage at which infants begin to walk demands the exercise of a considerable amount of self-control on the part of a parent, inasmuch as falls are inevitable. These appear to a looker-on to be of a more serious nature than they really are. Provided a child do not fall from a greater elevation than its own height, injury very seldom occurs from such tumbles. The most dangerous falls are those from spring mattresses and seats. The suddenness of the jerk prevents a child from saving itself by the exercise of the momentary instinct which is usually displayed in other cases of impending danger. Left to themselves, little folks generally fall neatly, and manage to keep their heads uppermost. The cry which is heard after these acci- dents arises from surprise and mortification, and the trouble is best treated as a joke. If, instead of catching the child up in her arms and smothering it with caresses, accompanied with expressions of sympathy, the nurse said, in a cheerful voice, “Jump up, and see where you sat last,” the child’s mind would be diverted from its grief, and braced to fresh exertion. As soon as a child is able to leave the house it should pass as much time as possible in the open air. Even sleep- ing out of doors does no harm, provided proper clothing be worn. Warm covering for the chest, arms, legs, feet, and loins is essential. The head should be kept cool, and the face covered with a light gauzy material only. Cambric handkerchiefs for veils, and felt hats, are objec- tionable. As a general rule, the head-gear of an infant should admit of the free passage of the air inhaled and exhaled both by day and night. If a babe be healthy, and the weather suitable, there is no reason why it should not be carried out in the open air a fortnight or even a week after birth, but only in the summer ; in winter not, on any account, under a month old ; and then only provided the weather be mild, and the hour mid-day. At two months old it may be carried out more frequently ; and at three months every day, if fine over-head, and there be no easterly nor north-easterly wind. Of course it should be well clothed. Perambulators, under careful guidance, are a real boon to both nurse and child. If a babe be healthy, and the weather suitable, there is no reason why infants should not almost from the commencement take daily exercise in a perambulator. Children from the age of a year old thrive better when exercised in the open air in a peram- bulator than when carried in the nurse’s arms. Less fatigue in carrying ensures less risk from the nurse sitting down to rest. It is seldom that cold is taken when passing briskly through the air; standing still in draughty places is always most carefully to be guarded against. Two little ones can be exercised in a double perambu- lator at an age when two nurses would be required to afford separate exercise to each child. When the exercise of walking ceases to be a pleasurable excitement, some inducement is needful to get little folks along. The daily walk consequently becomes a trial of patience to nurse and child. The best way to obviate this difficulty is to make the walk a secondary object, and some attendant amusement the ostensible one. Playing at horses is an excellent game, and so likewise is the wearing of a bell harness, composed of broad woollen webbing across the shoulders, laced in front, and fastened with a buckle at the back. The glitter and jingle of the small sledge-bells and the gaily-coloured reins prove irresistibly attractive to both horse and driver. Muscular exercise, adapted to more advanced child- hood, has received an important accessory in the form of gymnastic apparatus, of great variety and simplicity. They are made for different classes of strength, and are designed to bring every muscle into play (“ Calisthenics for Ladies,” pages 191 and 209). There are also very many valuable courses of exercises for which no apparatus of any kind is required, such as are described in our articles on “ Calisthenics for Ladies,” on pages 65 and 153. A srnall ranelagh will also be found very useful for expanding the chests of children after long sitting over their books or writing, or needle-work, and possesses the advantage of being easily suspended on a hook in any room. Girls as well as boys should be accustomed daily to use the ranelagh for a few minutes at a time. Ranelaghs may be purchased at very trifling cost at most india-rubber warehouses. FURNITURE.—V. BEDROOM FURNITURE {continuedfrom p. 185). Medical men consider it the more healthy plan to sleep on beds with as few draperies as possible. With a view to promote healthy slumber, and yet have ornamental surroundings, furniture-makers have again brought into general use the Arabian bedstead, in wood, iron, and brass, which they term “ half-tester,” and “ canopy,” according to the pattern. No matter what draperies or hangings these bedsteads have, they always look well. Some draperies are enormously expensive, others by no means costly, and with the slightest addition of fringe or band of pattern of colour may be made very pleasing to the eye. Of the latter, undoubtedly white dimity—or its equivalent in an inwoven pattern of white with alternate stripes of dimity—is the best. It is easily washed, and then looks like new ; and it lasts many years. The out- side head valance should have a deep white bullion fringe, or netted lace ; the inner one should be quite plain. Another variety is of dimity, with a chintz or coloured cambric border, about three inches wide, to the valance and curtains, either of scarlet Turkey-twill or washing mauve cambric. Moreover, these white hangings are helps to cleanliness ; not a speck or an insect can sully their purity without a chance of speedy discovery. Chintz furniture lined with a complementary colour is handsome and fresh-looking. The expense of both chintz and lining will not exceed that of a good quality of dimity. In towns, and places where white rapidly changes to a dingy yellow, chintz is to be preferred. A bedstead of iron, similar to that in page 184 (Fig. 2), and ornamented in colours and gold, can be purchased for £,^ 8s. Chintz furniture, lined and made for the same, would cost ^3 17s. 6d. This expense would of course vary more or less according to the colour and quality of the material. A chintz with several colours is costly ; one with two or three com- paratively less so. Care should be exercised, in selecting lining to a chintz, to have a tint that will contrast well with the complexion. A pale green will impart the cadaverous hue of sickness ; a buff has no contrast with the skin. A pale pink or blue suits well, but strong dark colours are to be avoided. When chintz hangings are soiled they should be sent to a cleaner’s, to be washed and calendered ; but if this process be too expensive—about 2jd. or 3d. a yard—they may be washed at home in a lather made with hot water, ox-gall, and curd soap, and afterward rinsed in alum-water, and dried in a shady place. The o.x-gall preserves all colours, hub articles