DANCING. 360 windpipe to the lungs and carry the air to these organs, and he is a very healthy person that is not more or less liable to this complaint in this climate. In most people this only occurs occasionally, and at long intervals. In some people it is almost a habit, and all through the winter they cough and wheeze and spit, and breathe very badly. They may go on this way for years or for a life- time. Winter and spring are their times of danger, and they should look upon these seasons as not friendly, and take corresponding precautions. Symptoms.—As we have said, the symptoms of bron- chitis, roughly speaking, are cough, wheezing, spitting, and short breathing. The cough is generally a severe tearing or choking sort of cough. Perhaps it comes on in fits of coughing, which are apt to be worst at nights. The wheezing noise in breathing, too, is apt to be worst at nights. The expectoration consists, for the most part, of thick yellow phlegm, which is occasionally tinged with blood. There is more or less shortness of breath. This set of symptoms often exists without much inconvenience to the patient. But if there is any fever or heat of skin added to them; if they have come on sharply after a shivering; and if there is much pain in any part of the chest, either sides or front of it; then the attack is severe, and should have every attention, including the advice of a medical man. The case is more serious still, if the patient is advanced in years, for it is found that very little bron- chitis, occasionally, is enough to put life in great risk. The common case of bronchitis is one more or less chronic or habitual, not jeopardising life. It is astonishing how many people have every winter a considerable amount of bronchitis, which, with a little care and rest, and perhaps warmth in bed and medical attention, gets better, and lets them go about their duties again. Even the acute cases of bronchitis, generally speaking, occur in those who are more or less accustomed to the chronic form of the disease. In all cases the disease is a weakening one, and even in acute and severe cases there is an early need for support. DANCING.—I. Locke thus writes :—“ Dancing, being that which gives a graceful motion to all our lives, and, above all things, manliness and a becoming confidence to young children, 1 think cannot be learned too early. Nothing appears to •me to give children so much confidence and behaviour, and so to raise them to the conversation of those above their years, as dancing.” Indeed, it is not only an agree- able pastime—it is an admirable physical training, bringing the muscles of the trunk, back, and legs into play. Those who have learnt it acquire a’ better carriage; use their limbs with more grace ; sit, stand, and enter a room with greater ease. It is a natural exercise, which strengthens the body, and is to youth what play is to children—and. moreover, a source of health. ^ Dancing is said, rather erroneously, to have originated with the Egyptians, but in truth we hear of it from the earliest ages. Just as children in the street will be found, untaught, dancing to the music of an organ, so, in all ages, certain music has called forth corresponding movements of the body. Miriam suited her actions to her song ; the Greeks danced in honour of Apollo ; and David danced before the ark. We read of Pyrrhus dancing, and of the Athenians dancing in funeral-pro- cessions ; for there would seem to be an affinity between the higher sentiments of the soul and gestures of the body, and the dancing of classic days spoke as plainly as sculpture or painting. We will now proceed to describe the preliminary atti- tudes and gestures with which dancing-lessons should commence, and then give some account of the different dances and the mode of dancing them. The position of the body must be first attended to. It should be quite erect, the shoulders well thrown back, the bust forward, the arms rounded, the thumb and fore- finger holding the dress, the fingers close together. Com- mence with the Fust Position—viz., the heels together, the toes well turned out. To carry out the exercises for the feet, proceed with the Second Position. Move the right foot sideways from the first position to about the distance of its own length from the heel of the left foot, the heel of the right foot being raised so that the toe only rests on the ground, and is pointed. For the Third Positioti, bring the right foot from the second position to the middle of the side of the left foot, the feet so close together that the heel of the one is brought to the ankle of the other, the toes still pointed. For the Fourth Position, move the right foot forward ; place the heel against the toe of the left foot in such a manner that the feet are half-crossing. In making this movement, raise the toe of the right foot slightly. The Fifth Position requires the right foot drawn back from the fourth position so that the heel is brought close to the toes of the left foot, the feet completely crossed. These several positions being thoroughly learnt, pro- ceed to the Balance Step, which is calculated to give steadiness to the body combined with freedom of limb. Begin from the first position, the shoulders perfectly square. 1. Balance Step without gaining Ground.—At the word Front,'' bring the left foot forward with the heel in a line with the right toe, the toe pointed, and the whole foot raised some three inches from the ground. At the command “Pear," carry the same foot to the back gently, the left knee slightly bent, the toe depressed. At “Halt," regain the first position, after the words “Front” and “ Rear ” have been given six times ; then repeat with the left foot, then with alternate feet, the teacher using his discretion as to when to call “Halt,” which the pupil must learn to obey on the instant, wherever the foot may be. 2. Balance Step gaining Ground.—“ Frotit.'' At this, bring the left foot forward three inches from the ground, the knees straight, the toes turned out. Remain thus three seconds, increasing the length of time as the pupil gains practice. “Forward."—With this bring the left foot to the ground (at eighteen inches from heel to heel), raise the right foot simultaneously, and extend it at the rear, the body bending slightly forward, the head erect, care being taken that the figure remains steady. The exercise proceeds as follows:—At “ Two," bring the right foot forward in a line with the left, the toe a little turned out, the sole flat and raised two inches from the ground, for three seconds. At “Forward,” the right foot should be brought forward and put down, and so on, with alternate feet, till the length of the room has been accomplished ; then turn, and repeat the same to the original starting-place ; then repeat the same twice with each foot—a good exercise for ensuring keeping step in walking ; and lastly, with the hands on the hips, the tips of the fingers to the front, and the thumbs turned back, raise the heels gradually from the ground, and move forward by successive short jumps of two inches at a time, on the toes, thus strengthening die knees, ankles, and muscles of the legs ; but it should not be continued more than five minutes, as it is not well to tire the muscles. The next exercises for the feet require the bending of the hips and knees, so as to turn the latter outward and rather backward without raising the heels, thus lowering the body while keeping it erect. They should be repeated with the feet in each of the five positions. They serve to teach the proper balancing of the body, and to give flexibility to the instep. They are difficult of accomplish-