201 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. DOMESTIC SURGERY.—VIII. BUNIONS, AND AFFECTIONS OF THE FEET AND LEGS. Bunion is a painful deformity of the joint of the great toe, due to the wearing of narrow and ill-made boots, by which the toes are crushed together, and the great toe bent out of its proper position. If the affection is quite recent, and no alteration has been caused in the joint by the pressure, it will be sufficient to wear wide boots, and, in addition, to place a small piece of cotton wool between the great toe and that one next, in order to restore the foot to its natural con- dition. Circular bunion-plaisters of either leather or felt are very service- able in such cases, as also with corns, in taking off the pressure of the boot. If, however, the pressure upon the joint has been of long continuance, the joint will be found to have be- come more or less chronically in- flamed and swollen, and if so, the application of the tincture of iodine to the skin for some time may be necessary in addition to the plaister, in order to restore the healthy state of the part. Occasionally acute in- flammation of the part affected is set up, even running on to the forma- tion of abscess, and as this may be serious as regards the whole foot, the advice of a surgeon should, without delay, be obtained. Of corns we have already spoken in our articles on the Management of the Skin, p. 124. Ingrowing Toe-nail is another re- sult of sacrificing health and comfort to fashion, in the form of tight boots. The great toe-nail, when healthy, is very slightly curved, and is broad and thin, and this condition may be main- tained by carefully cutting the nail from time to time straight across, provided sufficiently wide boots are the nail on each side should be removed, without going down to the matrix, or “quick.” In many persons this occasional removal of a slip of nail is a necessary and painless operation, though some prefer to scrape away the centre of the nail, so as to thin it until it bends readily, which in our experience is both a painful and useless operation. A better plan is to let the nail grow long and to cut a notch in the centre of it—as shown in the illus- tration, Fig. 26—when the growth takes place chiefly at, this spot, and the edges do not appear to encroach so rapidly upon the soft tissues. When the irritation has been allowed to go to the extent which we have shown in the illustration, the advice of a surgeon should be imme- diately sought, as it may possibly be necessary to remove part of the nail in its whole length—an excessively painful operation, for which the ad- ministration of chloroform, or some other anaesthetic, will be found neces- sary. Flat Foot occurs very generally in young persons who have had their strength overtaxed in carrying weights —for example, among nursemaids and errand-boys—though it may occur later in life, as is seen in the case of soldiers and policemen, and others who are on their feet during many consecutive hours. The sufferer finds the feet remarkably tender and painful after walking, and if it be neglected the distortion becomes so confirmed as to render him quite lame. In a flat-footed person, if he be made to stand up with bare feet, it will be seen that the arch of the foot has been moi'e or less broken down, as shown in Fig. 27, so that instead of the weight of the body coming upon the extremities of the arch—the heel and the ball of the great toe—the centre bones have fallen down and touch the ground, and hence the pain. habitually worn. When, however, the toes are crushed together, the nail of the great toe becomes more curved than natural, and presses into the tender skin on each side, and if the slight inconvenience at first experienced does not warn the sufferer to seek relief, he will find matters rapidly going from bad to worse, inflammation being set up on each side, and exuberant painful granulations springing up and overlapping the edges of the nail, as seen in Fig. 26. In the early stage of this disorder, when the nail first begins to excite irritation, the immediate ■ abandonment of narrow boots and the careful insertion of I a small pledget of cotton wool in the groove on each side i of the nail will generally effect a cure ; but if this is not | enough, with a sharp pair of nail-scissors a small slip of I The great object of treatment is to support the bones of the foot until the ligaments which have become relaxed shall have again become braced up. With this object in view, the sufferer should avoid much walking, and especially the carrying of heavy weights, and should have his foot carefully bandaged, as shown in a preceding paper. In order to restore the arch of the foot, the best plan is to have a piece of cork fitted to the inside of the boot so as to press up the fallen bones as much as the patient can bear without pain. After a time, as the foot improves, this can be increased in thickness, and so eventually the arch of the foot will be restored. When this has been done, a metal spring in the “ waist” of the boot is useful in preventing a return of the complaint.