97 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. THE SOURCES OF OUR FOOD SUPPLY.—I. INTRODUCTORY. When Malthus published his work on population, at the latter end of last century, it was believed that population increased in a geometrical ratio, and the means of sub- sistence in an arithmetical proportion, so that the former must in time be checked by want of food. Experience, however, has shown that in new countries—or rather, in comparatively sparsely-peopled states situated intemperate or warm regions of the earth—the means of subsistence increase at a greater rate than the population, and that the same obtains even in many of the more densely-populated states, owing to improvements in agriculture. There is therefore plenty of food supply for the old countries where the people cannot grow sufficient food for themselves, subject of course to the expense and difficulties of in- ternal transport, which in some countries, such as Bulgaria and parts of Hungary, are often very consider- able. The invention of the steam-engine—by which the working power of a population is enormously in- creased without the corresponding consumption of food, —and the facilities of transport which have been conse- quently introduced, have so entirely altered the old relations between the number of inhabitants and their food supplies that very little fear need be entertained of any restriction of our diet for the future. The price of food, however, will of course depend on the difference between supply and demand, and this, again, greatly on the earnings of the mass of the working population who constitute the bulk of our population ; because the greater the wages, the larger, within certain limits, will be the consumption of meat and other similar articles of diet: indeed, many inhabitants of this country with small fixed incomes must have been compelled to reduce their use of animal food, whilst the artisans have eaten it more freely. The increased amount of food consumed per head by the population has not been confined to meat, but has extended to all articles of diet, and this partly on account of the greater prosperity of the nation as a whole, and partly in consequence of greatly reduced prices from the reduction or removal of duty &n the importation of every kind of food in daily use. Without troubling our readers with elaborate statistics to prove these statements, it is sufficient for our purpose to point out the greatly extended use of tea, coffee, sugar, wine, beer, and spirits, as well as of more solid articles, such as bread, meat, and vegetables, and to illustrate our position, as necessity may require, by quoting a few statistical facts. The amount of food required for maintaining the human body in a healthy state varies considerably with the age, occupation, and habits of persons, as well as with the climate and season. Thus, Dr. Playfair is of opinion that 3J oz. of flesh-formers should be eaten by those who do not work hard, or take great exercise, but that 6 oz. are required daily by those who are engaged in hard productive labour. It has also been calculated that those who are engaged in severe mental labour will require about the same quantity. If these amounts be correct, each person—man, woman, and child—would, on an average, consume about 62 lbs. per year. We have, therefore, merely to multiply this quantity by the popula- tion to obtain a fair estimate as to the amount of food requisite for the wants of a given population. If we wish to arrive at the weight produced for each inhabitant, we must ascertain as far as possible the total food-production of the country, and divide the amount by the population. It is true that what are called heat-givers undoubtedly act at times as flesh-formers, or else prevent the unneces- sary consumption in the body of flesh-formers, so that 7—N.s. the food required of both kinds cannot be calculated with any very great accuracy. Be that as it may, the calcula- tion is sufficiently near the truth for us to say that the difference in the amount of flesh-formers between 62 lbs. per head a year and that which is produced, shows the quantity which must be imported, or the surplus which can be exported, accordingly as the production is less or greater than the weight named. In making such a calcu- lation, the quantity of meat, fish, and wheat, as well as of milk, eggs, and potatoes, has to be allowed for. Now, as it has been shown, approximately, that England does not produce more than about 43 lbs. per head, it is evident that we must obtain large food supplies from abroad ; and it will be one of the objects of this paper to furnish very briefly this information. The last census of Great Britain shows that the food supplies of the country must have diminished rather than increased since 1861, as the number of agricultural labourers has decreased, whilst that of artisans has become considerably larger. This is not satisfactory', because the price of meat must become higher, there being fewer producers and more consumers, unless some change take place in the diet of our middle and working classes, leading to a greater consumption of bread, fish, fruit, and other similar articles of food, and a correspond- ingly diminished demand for meat. There is no doubt that the ready conversion of meat into the flesh of our bodies leads to a large demand for it, irrespective of its taste ; but as other articles can be appropriated in the body with almost equal ease, at any rate amongst a very large proportion of the population, there is no reason why our diet should not be regulated to a considerable extent by the supply—that is to say, by the relative price. The readiness with which wheat and other cereals can be conveyed from one place to another will keep their price at a tolerably uniform level all over the civilised world, so that an additional quantity may be consumed without causing a local scarcity, as happens with meat. If the inhabitants of this country would keep this in mind, our food supplies and the demand would be more easily regulated. In spite of the large quantity of cattle and preserved meat brought to this country, the price has risen enor- mously during the last four- or five-and-twenty years. Thus, in 1852 the average wholesale prices for carcases in the London markets were as follows :—Eor beef, qjd-, for mutton, qjd. In 1854 beef had risen to S^d., and for the next fourteen years remained nearly stationary, when it gradually rose to 6|d. in 1871, then to yd. per pound, at which price, or thereabouts, it remains at the present time. Mutton in 1853 had risen to 5ld. per pound, and varied between 5|d. and 6^d. during the next twelve years—that is to say, until 1865—when it reached yd. The price then receded a little until 1871, when it again reached yd., and since then has oscillated between yd. and 7|d. per pound. It will be readily understood that the difficulty of conveying live cattle by steamboat from abroad is much greater than that of carrying corn, potatoes, and other articles of food, including also pre- served meat in its various forms; and therefore, as the growth of cattle in these islands is limited, if fresh or preserved meats are not brought here in sufficient quan- tities to meet the extra demand, the price must necessarily rise. In consequence of this increased value, many importa- tions of preserved meat in various forms have been made. Pickling was one of the earliest plans, and subsequently drying and smoking, which has met with fair success; but the meat thus treated is often objected to in consequence of its occasional hardness and saltness. Frequently pickled and unpickled meat are packed in casks into which melted fat has subsequently been run so as to keep out the air. The most ordinary mode of preserving meat is by packing