GARDENING. s;’2 4. The celery in this plot must be well covered up with dry litter in the event of severe weather setting in. Ridge up the ground as fast as it becomes vacant, that it may have the full benefit of frost ; but in doing so avoid as much as possible treading on the surrounding ground in wet weather. 5. As late broccoli and other winter greens are the sole occupants of this division, no particular directions are necessary just now, save that of laying a few of them down as already described in compartment No. 2. 6. Such cabbage plants as become loosened by wind, or raised up out of the ground by frost, must be replaced by pressing the soil round about their stems on a dry day. Likewise point over with a fork the ground be- tween the early-planted ones, for the purpose of destroying all weeds as soon as they make their appearance, for, upon the principle that “ a stitch in time saves nine,” these wild plants if destroyed early will save no end of labour at a future time, to say nothing of the benefit that will accrue from the soil being loosened. 7. The peas sown here last month should be vigilantly watched, for the purpose of preventing the depredations of mice and birds, both of which do no end of mischief when left to feast unmolested. The beet here may be left in the ground until wanted. And lastly, ground that has become vacant by the removal of carrots and other roots, should be dug up at once, unless the soil be of a heavy nature, when ridging would be preferable. 8. A few lettuces should be taken up with balls of earth, and housed previous to severe weather setting in, when it might be difficult, if not im- possible, to get at them. THE CULTURE OF.VEGETABLES. Having now concluded our preliminary remarks on the formation, cultivation, and management of the kitchen garden, we shall proceed in this and following papers, to treat separatelyof thedifferent vegetables usually cultivated. The Globe Artichoke. — Of this plant there are two varieties in cultivation, the conical or French, and the Globe; the former having an oval head with scales, open and not turned in at the top as in the latter, which are turned in at the top and have the recep- tacle more succulent than the former. This plant is propagated by offsets from the root, in March or April, when they will be from five to ten inches high. In per- forming this work, open the ground round and about the old stool, and slip them off clean to the root, leaving three or more of the strongest to the parent plant to bear the next summer crop. Prepare the offsets for planting by clearing away all the under decayed or broken leaves, as well as any hard or ragged part at the bottom of the root. Those about to plant, should bear it in mind that this vegetable delights in a rich light soil of a good depth, as well as in an open and exposed aspect. The ground should likewise be well manured, and dug or trenched. Plant them with a dibble in rows, three feet and a half asunder, and three feet apart in each row. Water them immediately after planting, and should the weather prove dry, and continue so, repeat the operation until such time as they have made good root, when they will be able to do without help. Hoe the ground over frequently during the summer months, in order to check weeds and keep the surface soil loose about the plants; this is really all the management necessary until the season of production is over, with the c.xccption of giving them moisture in dry weather. These roots will, as a rule, under fa\-ourable cir- cumstances, produce middling-sized heads the same year, from August to November, and the following year be in full perfection. It not unfrcqucntly happens, that several young shoots or heads spring from the sides of the chief or main stem, but in order to encourage the principal head to attain a full size, detach them from the parent plant as soon as they can be applied to use, which they may be as soon as they are the size of a hen’s egg. The main or chief heads are not in perfection until the scales diverge considerably, but should be gathered before the flower appears, cutting two or three inches of the stalk to each head. As" soon as the entire crop is gathered from the stem, cut it down close to the ground, in order to give the plant more strength to enable it to throw up superior new shoots next summer. They will now require their winter dressing, and for this purpose it will be necessary to first of all cut away all the large leaves, being careful not to injure the small central ones or new shoots. Then dig the ground between each row, raising the soil gradually, ridgewise, over the root and close about the plant. In frosty weather cover the ground with from four to six inches of good rotten manure, taking care to lay it close about each plant. The spring dressing should be given between the months of March and April, according as the weather proves favour- able, but previous to doing so, it will be necessary, not only to clear away all litter, but to examine the stocks, and select two or three of the best shoots for growing and producing the next summer crop, removing the rest by pressing them off either with the finger and thumb, which we prefer, or with a knife; then dig the ground level, loosening it well about the crowns of the roots of each plant. In the course of seven or eight years, even with the very best management, the heads will degenerate or, in other words, become smaller and less succulent, consequently it is essential that a new plantation be made about once in six years. Those desirous of saving seed must attend strictly to the following advice. Early in the summer select some of the first and largest heads, and when the flowerets are about to show symptoms of decay, turn the head down in a pendulous or drooping manner, in order that the calyx may throw off the wet. yerzisalem Artichokes.—The tubers of the root, which are generally abundant, are the only portion used. Before potatoes were known as well as they are now, they were highly esteemed, and are yet considered a nutritious food, and when boiled and mashed with butter they are excellent eating. The best way to propagate this root is by using middling-sized tubers and planting them entire. We select for this purpose moderate-sized roots, those about as big as a shilling, plant them, and when the shoots show above ground remove all but one, or two at the most, of the strongest. The best time for planting is from the beginning of March to the end of April. Having prepared the ground by digging, plant them with a dibble in rows three feet asunder, eighteen inches apart. They should not be planted more than four or five inches deep, and when you have finished this portion of the work, rake the ground over, filling in the ground regularly as you proceed. The only care or culture needed, is when the plants are up—and they will be in about six weeks after planting—to hoe the surface of the ground over for the double purpose of destroying weeds and loosening the surface of the soil. As soon as the weeds have been cleared off the ground, you may draw a little soil up to the bottoms of the stems. This, as we have already said, is all the attention required until the time of taking up the crop arrives. The tubers will be ripe between the months of October and November, at which time the stems should be cut down, and the produce dug up as wanted, or the whole may be removed from the soil (and this is the best plan), and laid in sand under cover, in order that they may be ready fn frosty weather, when, if left in the ground, they could not be got at very easily. The roots of this plant, if not carefully taken up, so as not to leave the smallest tuber, or portion thereof, will prove very troublesome, as the least particle, so to speak, will come up the following season, and for years to come, pestering and disfiguring the ground without yielding sufficient produce for a crop. Finally, make it a rule to plant, or form a new plantation every year, making up a bed in a different spot, if possible, each time.