POULTRY. 96 that ever existed ; indeed, it would be a difficult matter in any case to steal a chick in daylight from a well-bred Game hen. But whatever be the hen chosen, she should be well feathered, moderately short-legged, and tolerably tame. A very high authority* has affirmed that none but mature hens should be allowed to sit, and that pullets are not to be trusted ; but our own experience and that of very many large breeders does not confirm this. We have constantly set pullets, and have rarely had any more reason to complain of them than of older birds. The nests may be arranged under the shed any way so that no one can see into them, with the one proviso that they be actually upon the ground. Chicks thus obtained always show more constitution than those hatched on a the hen will be in the strictest privacy, will be both perfectly sheltered and kept cool, and will never mistake her own nest for the one which may be placed in the other corner. If a third must be made room for, let her nest be placed the same distance from the wall midway between the others, and like them, with the front of the nest to the back of the shed. There will then be still nearly a foot between each two nests for the birds to pass. A damp situation is best for the sitting shed, and will ensure good hatching in hot weather, when, perhaps, all the neighbours are complaining that their chicks are dead in the shells. Attempting to keep the nest and eggs very dry has ruined many a brood. It is not so in nature ; every morning the hen leaves her nest, and has to seek her DORKINGS. wooden bottom at a higher level. This holds good even at all times of the year. We are aware that eminent authorities who recommend ground-nests in summer,prefer a warm, wooden box in winter for the sake of the hen ; but she will rarely suffer. The heat of her body whilst sitting is so great that a cool situation seems grateful to her—at least, a hen set on the ground rarely forsakes her nest, which is other- wise no uncommon case. We knew of a hen which, during the month of January, made her nest on the top of a rock in one of the highest and most exposed situations in the Peak of Derbyshire, and brought a large brood of strong chickens into the yard. It is only neces- sary that the birds should be protected from wind and rain, in order to avoid rheumatism ; and this is most effectually done by employing for the nest a tight wooden box like Fig. 6, open at the bottom, and also at front, with the excep- tions of a strip three inches high to contain the straw. Let one of these boxes be placed in the back corner of the shed, touching the side, the front being turned to the back wall, and about nine inches from it; and • Mrs. Fergusson r>lair. precarious meal through the long, wet grass, which drenches her as if she had been ducked in a pond. With this saturated breast she returns, and the eggs are duly moistened. But if the nest be dry, the hen be kept dr>', and the weather happen to be hot and dry also, the moisture within the egg itself becomes dried to the 'consistency of glue, and the poor little chick, being unable to move round within the shell, cannot fracture it, and perishes. Such a mishap will not happen if the ground under the nest be damp and cool. All that is ne- cessary in such a case is to scrape a slight hollow in the bare, earth, place the nest-box, already described, over it, and put in a mode- rate quantity of straw cut into two-inch lengths; or, still better, some fresh-cut damp grass may be put in first, and the straw over. Shape the straw also into a very slight hollow, and the nest is made ; but care must be taken to well fill up the corners of the box, or the eggs may be rolled into them and get addled. Some people prefer to put in first a fresh turf; but if the nest be placed on the bare ground, as we recommend, this is useless. The rest of our remarks upon this subject must be postponed to a future number.