THE REARING AND MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN. 242 hairs, and their replacement by others, in accordance with the principles already laid down. Few persons have any correct notion of the number of hairs on their bodies. In every square inch on the head it is said that on an average i,ooo hairs are present, or 120,000 in the whole head. Red hair is coarser and thicker than brown or black. Red-haired people, for instance, have on an average but 80,000 ; black, 103,000 ; brown, 110,000 ; and blonde, 140,000 hairs in the scalp. Curly hair is in great measure due to its flatness, the deficiency of gelatine, and the action of heat and dryness. The hair, when free from fat, absorbs and evaporates moisture very rapidly, accord- ing as the air is dry or impregnated with vapoury matter. The natural fatty matter which is secreted by the glands, prevents any sudden change in this respect, and pomade takes the place of the natural oily secretion when this latter is deficient in amount. There are one or two other points in physiology which we need to be acquainted with, in order to understand the every-day management of the hair. Hair is regularly shed ; not all at once, but whilst some follicles are devoid of hairs, others are filled with hairs in various stages of growth, so that the shedding which continually goes on is unperceived by us in a state of health. The hair offers no exception to the rule that each part of the human body has a definite period of existence, and having done its work, it is cast off as useless. We are not speaking of disease now. Hence it is that when the shedding is ex- cessive only, we can regard it as the result of a disordered health. There are some persons who are very anxious if the least particle of hair comes away with the comb ; let them know then that, in moderation, continuous shedding of the hair is- natural. The amount of hair varies in dif- ferent individuals, as we all know, but it is of importance to remember that, both in regard to character and amount, hair is a family peculiarity. Luxuriance or deficiency of hair supply may be traced through successive generations, as much as peculiarities of feature, colour, or mental con- formation. This being the case, it is not to be expected that nature can be so far altered by pomades and washes as to run counter to a strong inheritance, and agree to the artificial production of good crops of hair in those who have no ancestral claim to it, but the reverse. Yet, how pertinaciously do men trust in the thousand and one vaunted panaceas, under these very circumstances ! And it is the more necessary to notice the point, because the stimulation usually employed is likely to, and indeed actually does, produce harm in many cases ; over-taxing the naturally enfeebled powers of the hair-forming appa- ratus, and leading to more decided baldness or thinning of the hair. Our readers must likewise remember that the healthy growth of the hair is distinctly influenced by the state of the bodily powers, so that anything which weakens on the one hand or makes strong on the other, is, as a rule, the cause in the one case of ill-nourishment of the hair, and in the other of its vigorous development. It follows, consequently, that one of the most common causes, both of thinning out and absolute loss of hair, is disorder of the general system, accompanied by debility; and it needs the knowledge of the physician surely to detect and to correct those errors of nutrition upon which loss or disease of hair depends. What those conditions are which lead, through impairment of the general health, to disease of the hair, will be specially referred to hereafter. So far only will we enter into the structure and physiology of the hair. Our object in this paper is to show that every healthy head of hair is undergoing a continual but gradual shedding, and that, in a moderate degree, this is to be welcomed, because it shows that the scalp is getting rid of that which is worthless, and possesses the power of producing that which will serve as well, and it may be better; that, under certain conditions, a deficient supply of hair, especially in men, is a family peculiarity, against which the arts of man are practically powerless ; and lastly, that there are a host of disorders which indicate that the blood and general state of nutrition is at fault, and which require not local treatment so much as the use of internal tonic and other remedies for their cure. The only one plan of treatment for all hair disorders at pre- sent in vogue amongst hair doctors, is stimulation. But it must be recollected that to provoke the hair follicles to extraordinary activity, when the general powers are ex- hausted, is often to produce harm. We shall next take up the daily treatment of hair in a healthy person. THE REARING AND MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN.—IV. EXERCISE. During the first few weeks of life, the disposition to sleep indicates the necessity for avoiding anything like excite- ment to premature activity. With limbs and muscles un- developed, and mental powers unformed, the only exertion to which a very young infant ought to be subjected is that which is occasioned by being washed and dressed. Gentle chafing of the limbs before a fire may be practised morning and evening with benefit and pleasure to the babe. Not until an infant voluntarily seeks movement, or the dawning intelligence evinces pleasure in passing objects, should any attempt be made to disturb the order of things established by nature. This change may gene- rally be observed about the third month. In the mean- time, the more tranquil an infant can be kept, both in mind and body, the greater are the chances of unchecked development at the proper period. The practice of too many nurses is at variance with these simple rules. Uninformed, generally, respecting the structure of the human frame, they are apt to apply prin- ciples of exercise totally unfitted to the tender organism of infancy. Hence the objectionable habit of jog-trotting on the knee, together with the pernicious practice of inducing the babe to support its head before the spine is strong enough to bear the weight. For some time after the rest of the body moves freely, the head is unequal to sustain an erect posture. The period when it is safe to encourage an infant to sit upright is at the age of seven months. Previously to that time the body should be held only in a semi-erect posture, either by resting across the nurse’s shoulder, or by her placing the distended palm of her hand against the child’s chest. It is more necessary to observe these precautions against spinal weakness in time, because children who may have been injudiciously managed at the outset become restless when it is attempted to keep them in a reclining posture. An exercise very congenial to the inclination of a baby consists in spreading cushions upon the floor for it, upon which to stretch itself. If no cushions be at hand, a clean cot mattress will answer equally well. All little ones revel in freedom from the restrained posture in the nurs&’s arms. The above exercise is the first step towards learning to crawl —the most healthful and natural mode of progression in babyhood. Some over-anxious parents check this habit, lest it should bring the infant into danger. Harm however, seldom results, provided common precautions be taken. Another prejudice sometimes entertained against crawl- ing is that, if a child find how easy it is to get along on the hands and knees, it will not try to walk. Here, again, the fears are unfounded. All children are anxious to get upon their feet as soon as they feel themselves strong enough to do so ; but many children do not walk before they are from twelve to fourteen months old.