FURNITURE. 146 here and there to throw shadow and give something like the proposed effect. When he is tolerably satisfied with the composition, he will proceed to copy the natural forms, by laying on small portions of clay, and then gradu- ally working them up, much as he did when copying the plaster cast, only in the present work he will find himself obliged to use the thumb less and the tools more. In imitating fruit and flowers, he will observe that an in- finite number of minute touches are required, which will call for some exercise of patience ; but for this he will be amply compensated by the interest and pleasure derived from working direct from Nature. As he goes on he will discover many things in his composition which do not please him, but he will find it easy to detach any leaf or other portion (by cutting it from the background with a thin piece of wire), and move it to the required place, and thus play his foliage about till the eye is satisfied. It will be well to keep all the forms resting somewhat solidly on the background, and not to “undercut” (that is, hollow them from beneath) extravagantly, as, by so doing, he would cause himself considerable difficulty in the after process of casting. Also, as the modelling will be delicate and easily injured by pressure, the wet cloth with which it must be covered should be supported by little wooden pegs, stuck into the background ; the holes made by them can be easily filled when the model is finished. In our illustra- tion (Fig. 3) we show the “Summer” bracket completed. A Vase.—Few objects are more beautiful, either as chim- ney ornaments or when placed on brackets, than elegantly shaped and tastefully decorated vases ; we will now show how one may be made. As it is impossible (except upon the potter’s wheel) to form the body or core of a vase per- fectly symmetrical in clay, it will be necessary to draw a section of the proposed shape (see Fig. 2), and having cast a block of plaster to the required size, give it, with the drawing, to a turner, who will shape the core accurately in a few minutes. The method of making the block of plas- ter will be shown in the section on Casting. The core thus made may be decorated with flowers or other natural objects in the same way as the bracket, but more delicate modelling will be required. Before the work is begun it will be necessary that the plaster should be wetted, and the clay will generally adhere to it sufficiently, but it may be made to do so more closely by brushing the core over with a little soft-soap or some similar substance. If handles are desired, pieces of copper wire may be inserted, and bent to the required curve; twine should be wound round them to give a firmer hold to the clay, which may then be worked on. No wet cloth will be needed for this model, as the plaster core, if daily saturated with water, will sup- ply the clay with sufficient moisture; but when handles are added they must be carefully wrapped in wet rag. In Fig. 4 v/e give a vase in its finished state. FURNITURE.—VII. BEDROOM FURNITURE [continued fro7n p. 286). Blankets.—To sleep under a heavy weight of bed-clothes is a burden to most people, and whatever be the light- ness of the outer quilt, if the blankets be made of coarsely- spun wool of a poor quality, there will be considerable weight in them, but little warmth. A light, soft, and well- woven blanket will give more warmth than two of coarse and inferior make. The best blankets are on both sides nearly if not quite alike in the “ fluff” of the wool, which, however, is not long, but on the contrary, somewhat short, thick, and very soft Such blankets are known by the name of “extra supers,” and will cost from 35s. to 50s. a pair. The process of raising a pile on the blankets is a most important operation. It is effected by rollers covered with brass pins, and over these one side of the blanket is passed twice, and three times over the other, which is on that side termed the right side of the blanket; and if the wool with which blankets are spun be of inferior quality, this dressing will vanish the first time they are washed Another thing which adds to the cost and also beauty of blankets is, previously to the pile being raised on them, that they are beaten with ponderous wooden hammers, reducing a blanket sometimes to half its original weight; by this process all exti-aneous matter is beaten out of them. In common blankets the beating is less, and they are consequently less soft. Blankets are sold by the width and length of so many quarters in size, and should be chosen for their weight, softness of wool, and thickness in pile on both sides— blankets of this quality can seldom be had under 30s. the pair; those of less excellence from any price above I2S. per pair. Common blankets shrink very much in washing them, which is not the case with the better kind ; the different process of manufacture and the quality of the wool causing the difference. The Aldershot blankets, made of dark wool, slate- coloured or brown, are useful for servants’ blankets, and they are inexpensive—good-sized ones can be purchased for 6s. per pair. They are very soft when washed, and do not shrink so much as common white blankets. When put into a calico casing, two of these make an excellent and warm quilt for winter for servants’ beds. Sheets and Pillow-cases.—Formerly, before the cotton era, linen sheets were highly prized; now these are scarcely to be seen among the poorer classes. Linen sheets seem to belong, by right, to the upper and well-to-do middle classes. It is not alone the difference in the price of the material that has ruled this, but the poorer classes have found out that calico sheets are a great deal more comfortable and less likely to increase rheumatic tendencies. In former times, and even at the present day, in low, damp situa- tions, among some of the peasantry who cannot afford the luxury of coddling for slight ailments, every effort is made to ward off sickness, and in their homes blankets will be found in place of sheets. Martyrs to rheumatic affections have been cured by constantly sleeping in blankets, and where the skin is too irritable to admit of these, the soft, unbleached cotton sheets, manufactured for use in India and the tropics generally, have been found an excellent substitute. Unbleached cotton is much warmer than the bleached kind. One hundred and fifty years since an Act of Parliament was passed imposing a penalty of upon the wearer, and £20 upon the seller of a piece of calico. This was to encourage the trade in flax, and in articles woven from it. No Act of Parliament, however, could stop the progress of such a universal good as the introduction of cotton. Those who could not indulge in linen garments and sheets on account of the expense, were in a few years, when cotton became cheap, enabled to be clad decently, and have a sufficient change of bed- clothes previously unattainable. Prior to the civil war in America, upwards of sixty-five millions had been in- vested in cotton machinery, which employed four hundred and fifty thousand people, who divided among them an- nually upwards of eleven millions sterling. The domestic trade of England alone realised twenty-four millions sterling. Such is the value of cotton in a financial point of view. Now, of cotton there are several kinds, mostly resolving themselves into long and short sj;aple ; at least, these are the ordinary two kinds which a housekeeper needs to know anything about. Articles made of long staple wear better than when made of short staple, because in the spinning, the joins are not so frequent, and the cotton itself is silkier and softer. During the war much of the worst kind was imported to give employment to the starving operatives, and was woven into calico, its defects being hidden by the quantity of “dress” it contained. These defects are uneven projections in the calico caused