HOUSEHOLD AMUSEMENTS. 262 introduction of such an objectionable element in the family circle, and many persons who play—at whist, for instance —would no more think of staking money on the game than they would do so if sitting down to chess. As it is our endeavour to consult the wishes and the tastes of all readers of the Household Guide, we have determined to give a few papers on card games for the benefit of those who would wish to know something of such amusements, or to have some guide to the established laws to be observed in playing. It is not our purpose to go deeply into these games, or to aim at making anyone a scientific player; but simply to impart such general know- ledge on the subject as may in some cases open up a new field of harmless recreation, and in others enable unprac- tised persons to acquit themselves with sufficient dexterity if disposed to take a part when in company where cards are introduced. Cards are of very great antiquity, and, like chess, were invented in the East, but when, or in what country, is unknown. They are sometimes said to have been intro- duced into Europe in the fourteenth century, for the diversion of Charles VI. of France; but they are now proved to have been known before his time. Their use was almost universal in England two centuries ago, and the good old knight. Sir Roger de Coverley, is represented in the Spectator as having made it his practice, every Christmas, to send a string of hogs’ puddings and a pack of cards to every poor family in his parish. Most of our readers know the nature of a modern pack of cards. The number of the cards is fifty-two, divided into four suits, thirteen cards in each. These suits are called respectively hearts, diamonds, spades, and clubs; the two former being printed with red, and the latter with black ink. Ten of the cards in each suit have on them figures, from one to ten successively, of a heart or a diamond, &c.; and these cards, with the exception of that which bears a single figure, are known as the two, the three, or the four, and so on, of that suit. The card on which only one heart, &c., is imprinted is known as the ace of the suit, and in most games of cards is the most valuable of the thirteen, having the power to take any of the rest. Three other cards in each suit are known as king, queen, and knave, and bear quaint heraldic figures answering to these names respectively. The queens are easily distinguished from the other figures, but the novice requires to have it pointed out that the kings may be known from the knaves by a crown on the head, the latter wearing only a plain red cap. THE GAME OF WHIST. Of all card games Whist is acknowledged to be by far the best. As a combination of chance with skill, and therefore affording the interest found in games of both descriptions, whist has no competitor in the whole round of amusements of this nature. The most unskilful person who knows the game at all, may by ordinary good fortune be placed on a par with a very experienced player, and it has been computed by one authority that the difference between two of the best and two of the worst players is practically no more than five per cent, in favour of the former. To this comparative equalisation of the chances of success the popularity of the game is no doubt largely due. Whist is said to receive its name from an interjection commanding silence, which is particularly enjoined by the laws of the game ; but this appears doubtfi'l, as “whisk” is one of its oldest titles, and from this “whist” may easily have come. We shall now give an account of the principles of the game, and afterwards of the laws by wliich it is regulated. The usual and perfect game of wliist is played by four persons, divided into two opposing sides. The partners on each side are generally determined by each person | drawing or “ cutting ” a card from the pack—the drawers of the two highest and the two lowest cards playing together, and the person who picks the lowest of all being entitled to deal the cards for the first time. In cutting, the ace always counts as the lowest card in the pack. In taking position round the table the partners sit facing each other, each player being between his two opponents. The cards are taken by the dealer, backs uppermost, and handed to the player sitting next him on the left, to shuffle; that is, keeping their backs towards him, to mix them up promiscuously. They are then again placed on the table, and the player on the dealer’s right cuts them, by lifting off a part of the pack and laying it down, when the dealer picks up those cards which were at the bottom of the pack before cutting, places them on the top of the others, and commences to deal. Each player has a right to shuffle the cards before the deal, if he pleases to do so ; but in practice it is usual, as we have said, for the eldest ha^id, or player to the left of the dealer, to perform the operation. The dealer may always shuffle the cards again before they are cut, if he thinks proper. The cards are dealt by placing one face downwards before each of the players successively, commencing on the left hand, until the pack is exhausted. The last card will come to the dealer unless there is a misdeal, which will be treated of when we come to the laws of the game. This card is turned face upward on the table for all the players to see, and is known as the tr2imp card. It determines the suit which is to be of the greatest value during that hand ; if a spade, for instance, is turned up, spades are trumps, and can take a card of any other suit on the table. The word “ trump ” is supposed to be a corrup- tion of “ triumph.” The trump suit is, or may be, changed at every deal, according to the card which happens to remain at the bottom of the pack. When the deal is complete, but not before, each of the players takes up his cards, and, holding them in his hand with the backs towards the other players, inspects the assortment which has fallen to him. The best plan, for a learner at least, is, before playing, to arrange the cards according to the suits and their value, so that he may see at one glance what he has in his hand, and find any card without hesitation. Then, spreading the cards out something like a fan, he is ready to follow the play. The play commences by the eldest hand laying down a card face uppermost; the player next him lays down another, then the third person in order, the dealer last. The card highest in value among the four takes them all, and the four collectively are called a trick. The value of the cards is according to the number of the “pips” or figures printed upon them, from the deuce, or two, which is the lowest of a suit, up to the ten ; the next best is the knave, then the queen, then the king, the ace being highest of all. The trick is gathered up by the person who takes it, or by his partner, and placed face down- wards on the table, where it remains until the counting takes place at the end of the hand. Whatever suit may be led by the first player, the others are bound to play a card of the same suit, if they have one. If not, they may play anything they please ; if a trump, it takes the trick, unless a higher one is played by another person. But if a player omits or refuses to follow suit when he is able to do so, his side incurs the penalty for a revoke, and loses three tricks, under the laws to be given hereafter. No matter how high the cards may be of any ordinary suit, the lowest trump card has the power to take them all. And if a person cannot follow suit, whatever card he may play is taken, unless it be a trump. The ace of trumps is necessarily the highest card in the pack. Whoever wins a trick becomes first player for the next, the others following from left to right in order; so the