Ill CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. as that occupied by the children. If, however, no other means exist, the mattresses and clothes should be laid before the fire whilst the little ones are out walking, the windows and doors being left open during the process. The fittings of a nursery should be few and washable. Plaiji chintz curtains are preferable on this account to woollen materials. Sand-bags are requisite along the windows, in severe weather, because children cannot be kept from looking out and tapping at the panes, thereby exposing themselves to draughts. It is not advisable to cover a nursery completely with carpet. A square of felt, bound at the edges, and fastened at the corners and sides with a few carpet-nails (those made with large flat brass heads are the best), is easily removed, and easily shaken. The felt should be taken up one day in every week, and the room thoroughly scrubbed. An excellent addition to the ordinary means of cleansing consists of a lump of lime in the pail of water used for scrubbing. The lime not only whitens, but disinfects the boards. Whilst the nursery is scrubbed, the windows should be left open a few inches at both top and bottom, and a fire kept brightly burning, except in summer. A hamper for toys is a good substitute for a cupboard. If the house be large, and the nursery distant from the main supplies of provisions, a safe should be established on a landing, or in a spare room, wherein bread, milk, butter, and the nursery grocery may be kept. One or two saucepans for warming infants’ food, and a kettle for the nursery tea, are indispensable. A small kitchen-range is preferable to the ordinary fire- place. These nursery-ranges, fitted with a boiler, save time and trouble, when hot water is frequently wanted, as in the case of the morning and evening bath. Nursery fenders are in such general use that it seems almost unnecessary to recommend them. No room ap- propriated to children is safe without such a protection from fire. To be perfectly safe, h Dwever, and beyond the reach of long sticks, it is needful that a wire guard should be suspended on the grate within. In planning the arrangements of a nursery, endeavour to make the little establishment as independent of the rest of the household as possible. With regard to ventilation : the well-being of children much depends on a plentiful supply of fresh air, and dan- gerous diseases are generated by breathing over and over again the sanie atmosphere. If a child waken languid in the morning, instead of being sprightly and refreshed, it may be taken as a tolerable indication of the inadequate ventilation of the sleeping-room during night. Some provision for the admittance of fresh air is indispensable. The upper sash of one window should be left a little open, taking care that no draught shall come on any bed. Should the weather be cold, or damp, leave the bed-room door open, instead of the window. The register of the fire-place in the sleeping-room must also be left open. The temperature of a bed-room in winter should be, as nearly as possible, at 6o° Fahrenheit DOMESTIC SURGERY,—V. SUSPENDED. ANIMATION. Under the head of suspended animation are included all those cases of apparent death in which, by the judicious application of appropriate remedies, the patient may be restored to vitality and health. The simplest form of sus- pended animation is that seen in faititing, when, from the effects of heat or over-exertion (combined possibly with tight lacing), a young lady becomes pale, falls down in- sensib^, and appears scarcely to breathe. The admission of fresh air is of the first importance, and she should be immediately placed near an open window, and in the recumbent position, so that the flow of blood to the head may be accelerated. At the same time, any tightness of dress should be at once remedied, and a little cold water sprinkled in the face. The use of smelling-salts is occasionally of service in rousing a patient, but care must be taken not to apply them too vigorously, for fear of irri- tating the nose. If, as sometimes happens, a fainting-fit is only the prelude to a fit of hysterics, the patient should be thoroughly roused by the free application of cold water, so soon as the hysterical sobbings begin to show them- selves, and a brisk walk up and down the room, between two not too sympathising friends, will then probably avert a domestic catastrophe which is always annoying to all concerned. Persons with a feeble circulation, and, there- fore, more liable to faintness, may be glad to know that they can often avert a fainting-fit when they feel it coming on, by at once lying down flat on a sofa; or, if from position—as in church—this is impossible, then that bowing the head well down on the knees will have the same(effect. Drowtiing is the most common cause of serious sus- pended animation, and, as accidents may happen at any moment, every well-educated person should know what to do on the emergency. In cases of drowning, every moment is of importance, and the attempts at resuscita- tion should, therefore, be begun as soon as the sufferer is drawn from the water, and without conveying him any long distance to a house. The great object of treatment is to rouse the heart by inducing respiration, as in the case of fainting, and, if all efforts at this have ceased, recourse must be had at once to “ artificial respiration,” by the following method, known as “ Sylvester’s.” The mouth being cleared of any dirt or saliva which may be in it, the tongue should be drawn forward, and held with the finger and thumb, or secured with a piece of ribbon or an elastic band passed over the tongue and under the chin. This drawing forward of the tongue is very important, as it opens the wind-pipe, and must never be omitted. The patient being then laid on his back, with the shoul- ders and head slightly raised, the operator kneels behind his head, grasps the arms just above the elbows, and draws them steadily and gently upwards (as shown in Fig. 2i) until they meet above the head. By this means, the walls of the chest are expanded, and air is drawn into the lungs, and a second or two should be allowed for this to take place. The operator should then lower the patient’s arms to his side, and press them against his chest (as seen in Fig. 22), so as to force out the air from the lungs, and thus imitate respiration. This series of movements should be repeated twenty times a minute—not more—and the time should be taken from the watch of a bystander, or it will be found in practice that anxiety will lead to hurry and consequent damage.. As it will be impossible for one person to keep up the exertion necessary for many minutes, from the fatigue consequent upon it, he should be relieved as often as ipay be necessary by another, who should have watched.and learnt the method of pro- ceeding ; but it is important that all directions should be given by one person, since confusion and delay is sure otherwise to occur. Whilst efforts at restoring respiration are being thus unceasingly carried out, the attention of other assistants should be given to restoring the warmth of the body of the drowned person, by removing wet clothes, applying hot blankets and bottles, and by using friction assiduously to the limbs, in an upward direction, so as to favour the flow of blood towards the heart. The utility of a warm bath is questioned by many authorities, and should only be resorted to when the patient is suffer- ing from extreme cold. Even in this case, it is well to dash cold water over the face and chest, so as to excite respiration, and the use of the warm bath should not be continued more than five minutes, without medical sanc- tion. Efforts at resuscitation should be continued for at least an hour, even in unfavourable cases, unless, indeed,