CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 321 HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART.—X. FEATHER SCREENS (continued from p. In speaking of the kinds of birds best adapted for being manufactured into screens, we can only give the general rule that all birds which have naturally a rapid flight form good subjects, their wing-feathers being strong and stiff, and not liable to get spoilt. The owl, for instance (to take a case of an opposite character), is not so well suited for a screen as a pigeon or a duck, for, though he has a beautiful spread of wing- feathers, and with his large head and eyes will form a noble screen, yet the softness and •delicacy of his feathers, so necessary for his silent flight, renders the screen he may be transformed into, very easily soiled by dust (at least in the neighbourhood of London), and spoilt by handling. All the hawk-tribe, on the other hand, are excellent ; the large iDrilliant eye and short hooked beak being very effective (see Fig. 2) ; and their wing-feathers, being strong, are of a tolerably hard material, though not nearly so hard and durable as those of the wild duck, widgeon, or any of the numberless duck-tribe. So far, indeed, as the shape, strength, and colouring of the is concerned, the duck-tribe are by far the best subjects for screens that we know of ; but when we remember the difficulties of making their long necks and not always beau- tiful bills as- sume a grace- ful attitude, we return at once to the opinion with which we started, that the race of pigeons (so far asBritishbirds are concerned) bears off the palm of gene- ral capability. In London, however, it is very difficult to get pigeons that are worth anything; the tame pigeons at the poul- terers’ shops being gene- rally (and our readers pro- bably know that they should be al- ways) young birds thathave only their first coat on (if they have got all their feathers); and even if an old bird should be found amongst them, or the wild pigeon should be selected, the chances are that they have been so mangled in the killing or carriage as to be useless for our purpose. Wild ducks, widgeon, pintails, teal, and other kinds of ducks can, however, be readily obtained in London in perfect condition. Owing, however, to the size of the bill in the larger sorts, we prefer the smaller for making screens, and shall presently give the result of our experience in dealing with a teal, as compared with the directions previously given in the case of the pigeon. In selecting any bird for making a screen, whether from thepoulterer’sshoporfromthedove- cot of a farm-house or elsewhere, the main points are, to see that plumage is good, the quill-feathers of the wing fully developed and perfect in their graduated lengths, and (if the bird is dead) that the feathers of the neck have not been damaged by the dislocation that is usually resorted to. But in selecting a tame pigeon there are other points to be attended to ; this is caused by the variety of colouring, which (though it adds to the value of the pigeon-race for making screens) is very often not equally distributed. For instance, one wing may have the three first quill-feathers white on one side, while on the other side four or five may be of this colour, or, perhaps, a single dark one may form the first quill-feather, and then three white ones. These irregularities will much interfere with the beauty of your screen, if not noticed in time, and though they may sometimes be counteracted by painting, this is not often successful. Generally speak- ing, a pigeon with quite white quill-feathers should be re- jected, as it is seldom that they are so clean as not to show some traces of dirt at the points, and the slate, fawn, or grey coloured pigeons, are generally much more beautifully marked in other respects. From this it will be seen that it by no means follows that the pret- tiest pigeon that walks about (and picks up the peas you have enticed him down with), will form the hand somest screen. We must here say a word or two as to the time of year when tame pigeons ought to be in full feather, and we say ought, because they often upset all one’s calculations by moulting at irregular times, the result, no doubt, of domestication, and the numerous families they rear in the course of each year. Just before, and during the beginning of the breeding season, they will generally be found to have no short 21—N.s.