i8i CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. end of which lever, opposite the pivot, the wire, w, and I the spiral spring, s, are fastened. On a little boss, or drum, round the pivot, but hanging with B, is a long, flat spring, C, to the end of which is fastened the bell, p. The spiral I spring, S, is nailed to the wall at T, and is fastened at |i: sufficient tension to pull back the lever, B, to its stop, H, !i after it has been moved by the wire, w. The spring, S, has, however, to hold the whole length of the wire through all its various bends and turnings, strained tight right up Ij to the handle. A, Fig. 68, and upon it the balance neces- sary depends. The flat spring, c, j to which the bell, D, appends, has t I for its purpose only the prolonging , of the swing motion of the bell, for 'i it is well known that a single move- ment of A will produce a ring continued in proportion to the delicacy of the balance. Should, however, any bell fail I to act, the cause will most probably be that a length of wire between two of the cranks has got stretched or broken, in which case the handle. A, Fig. 68, i will hang down loose. 'I Where a number of bells from different I parts of an establishment are all brought II together, they should be arranged on the bell-board in a regular and fiystematic order—that is, the smallest, or highest toned, should be at one end, ,1 and gradually range up to the largest, or deepest toned, each succeeding bell a trifle higher than the ] former. The reason for this arrangement is obvious— ‘ the smaller bells allowing the wires to the others to pass over them without touching them. With large numbers 1 !l of bells together, it would be often difficult to tell which had been rung, from the slight E variation in tone, so the following arrange- jl| ment is adopted :—Each wire passes in as [j usual to its respective bell, affixed to which [i; is a small catch, having at the bottom a I pendulum, which continues to swing a con- siderable time after the bell has ceased to jl ring ; or, better still, after setting in motion I their respective pendulums, all the wires I proceed to a single gong, which only utters ! one note, and leaves the pendulum to show , which room requires attention. The great I advantage of the latter plan is too evident (; to require even mentioning. II The numerous forms of bell-pull contrived to suit the varied requirements of house- holds, are all more or less on the same I principle as we have illustrated. The wires I' themselves are often passed through tubes of thin zinc let into the plaster of the wall, several wires sometimes passing through one tube ; but the cranks and connections j| should, if possible, be where they are acces- j sible when repairs are necessary. In hotels I and large buildings, electricity is rapidly superseding j the old system of bell-hanging, and it is now being gradually introduced into ordinary houses. In another paper, we hope to treat fully of electric bells. Speaking- I tubes, again, are very useful, and easily contrived, ordi- I nary iron gas-pipe answering the purpose nearly as well j as gutta-percha, and at a much less price, and the flexible ends and whistles can be purchased sufficiently handsome for the most elegant apartment, and suffici- ently cheap to be within the reach of the most ordi- nary purse. When several pipes terminate in the same place, the whistles are fitted with indicators—little ivory rods which I are blown out when the whistle is used, thereby showing i where the attention is required. COOKERY.—XL SHELL-FISH. Mussels with Sharp Sauce. — Cook the mussels as already directed ; turn them out, and set the liquor aside to settle. Leave each mussel in the valve or half-shell to which it is attached, removing the other half-shell. Take out the weeds and the parasitic crabs. Neatly arrange or pile the mussels in the half-shells in the centre of a dish. A soup-plate will serve for a small quantity. Take some of the mussel-liquor, and with it, instead of water, make melted butter, using the butter liberally. Add pepper and a good dash of vinegar. When it boils, pour it over your mussels, and serve. Scalloped Mussels.—Cook the mussels as above; pick and take them out of their shells. Have scallop-shells or tin pans made of that shape. Put grated bread-crumbs at the bottom; on these lay mussels, putting amongst them little bits of butter; season with pepper and grated nutmeg; sprinkle more bread- crumbs over them, and so on till the shells are full, covering all with bread- crumbs at the top. Moisten with a small quantity of the mussel liquor. Set in the oven of your cooking-stove, or in an American oven, till they are well heated through, and the top nicely browned. Fried Miissels {Grande Cuisine).—Shake your mussels in a saucepan with the lid on without water. When well opened take them out of the shells, remove the weed attached to the root of the tongue (really the foot) and the crabs which nestle inside the mussel. Lay them on a napkin to cool and drain. Make a batter to dip them in with a little of their own liquor, flour, butter, and an egg ; season with salt, pepper, and what else you please. When this is smooth and well thickened over the fire, it is ready. Dip the mussels one by one in this; lay them on a board so as not to touch each other. When cold, with the sauce sticking to them firmly, roll them separately in bread-crumbs, and fry them light brown in a deep small sauce- pan containing plenty of hot fat. They may be served heaped on a dish garnished with, fried parsley, or they make an elegant gar- nish for fried fish served on a napkin. Large oysters (scalded before dipping in the batter) may be fried and served in the same way. Cockles.— Cockles, especially those from shores overlying a stratum of clay, after a thorough washing in two or three waters,, and draining awhile, should h» put into salt and water—less salt than sea-water, which may be easily ascertained by tasting—to cleanse themselves. Let them lie there all night, changing the water if you can. Cockles are nicest roasted on the bars of a grate, or a tin laid on the flat top of a cooking stove, or in an iron dish set into the oven, and eaten hot with bread and butter. As soon as they open wide they are done enough ; or they may be shaken in a closed saucepan, with no water, over a brisk fire, till they are done. Cockles may be dressed in all the ways—except frying—practised with oysters and mussels. They are good pickled, scalloped, stewed, and in sauce to go with any boiled fish. Scallops.—On opening your scallops, before detaching them from the shell, trim away and reject the beards, keeping the white, red, and black parts of the fish ; wash them in several waters; then boil them an hour or more Fig. 67.