COOKERY.. 54 for it matters little in what shape the fat is taken, whether as dripping, butter, or oil, their effects on the system being exactly the same. Unfortunately, though one man can lead a horse to water, a hundred can’t make him drink; and it is useless to set before delicate, perhaps fanciful, stomachs things from which, however good for them, they turn away with dislike and loathing. The only way is to cheat them, as it were, into taking, almost without knowing it, what is essential for their bodily wel- fare. The housewife at least ought to be thoroughly convinced of the great importance of all kinds of fat in family dishes, and never to waste any ; but, on the con- trary, to procure all she can at an economical rate. There are families in which every scrap of fat which is helped to its members seated at table is left on the plate, and thrown to the cat or the pig. This ought never to be. -It will not often happen in families who live by out- door employment, but it will when their occupations are different. We have no right to say an unkind word about “ daintiness ” and the rest, if persons who are con- fined nearly all day long to sedentary and monotonous employment, in a close, in-door atmosphere, have not the sharp-set appetite of the ploughman who hears the singing of the lark and feels the freshness of the winds of March, from misty daybreak to ruddy sunset; only, if they can eat no meat but lean, we urge them to use the fat under some disguise. They already take it in many shapes, unconsciously or without thinking of it, as in broths, milk, bread and butter, and even in meat which they call and consider lean. Let them buy, therefore, not one ounce the less of good wholesome fat with their meat, and let them employ it in some of the ways we are about to mention. For plain suet dumpling, the best is the kidney fat of beef or veal, which is sold separately in small quantities, and at a moderate price. Chop this fine, and to one pound of flour, put from a quarter to half a pound of chopped suet, according to the richness you wish to make it of. Add a pinch of salt, and water or milk enough to make it into a paste that will hold well together. It is a good plan to mix the salt (and, if you like, the least dust of pepper) with the suet before mixing with the flour. Make this paste into dumplings about the size of your fist. It is better to make several of a moderate size, than a few large ones ; they boil more thoroughly, and in a shorter time ; besides, each person can have his dumpling to himself. Flour them well; tie each one in a cloth, well floured inside, not too tight, but allowing a little room to swell. A very little practice will teach you the degree of tightness. Throw them into boiling water, and keep boiling (galloping) a couple of hours or so, according to the size of your dumplings, and see that none of them stick to the bottom. Serve them the minute they are taken out of the cloth. They need no sauce ; but a little bit of butter, as an indulgence, or some roast meat gravy, does no harm. For sweet suet dumpling, allow a liberal quantity of suet. With the salt mix a little grated nutmeg, and a good table-spoonful of brown powdered sugar ; or, instead of using sugar, you may mix a table-spoonful of treacle with the water with which you make the dumpling-paste. Boil as before. If sauce be wanted, give matrimony sauce. Plum Dianpling.—As before ; only mix with the salt, sugar, and suet six ounces of washed currants, or of raisins stoned and chopped. Same cooking, and same sauce. We once saw an ailing child crying for plum- dumpling when there was only plain, and refusing to dine. A good-natured friend, who happened to look in, said, “ Give me one of those nasty plain dumplings,” and dis- appeared with it into the kitchen. In two minutes he returned with it stuck over the outside with plums. The child set to with appetite, and ate it. If your quantity of plums is scanty, mix just a few with your flour and suet, and stick the rest on the outside of your dumplings before tying them up in their. cloth and boiling them. They will be received by the little ones with a heartier welcome than if the treasures they contained were unseen. It is said that “ a pleasing appearance is the best letter of recommendation.” You may call them dumplings in their Sunday clothes. Moreover, the plan has a highly- approved precedent. Cabinet pudding (which is nothing but sponge-cake soaked in beat-up egg, and boiled in a mould) ought to have its outside only garnished with dried cherries, or, in default of them, with jar-raisins stoned, by sticking them inside the mould before boiling. Suet Pudding.—Mix up the above ingredients with milk, a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, two or three eggs, a little lemon-peel chopped fine, and a little larger allowance of sugar. Do not make this up into separate dumplings, but boil in one lump, in a well- floured cloth, for a longer time—three or four hours. You see that in this case, as in the soldier’s famous flint-soup, we are gradually enriching a preparation which started from a very simple beginning. By adding sundry nice things to suet and flour, we have got from plain suet pudding almost up to plum pudding itself. Short Cake.—We now come to things that are made with a crust (which we may call pie-crust, though in many cases it is boiled), enclosing something either sweet or savoury. And as we have said a few words about fat, so now we would call the attention of house- wives to the importance of sugar as an article of food. Its effects on the constitution are similar to those of fat, and it may be used as a partial substitute for, or in addition to it. They should also know that there are three things which, although so different to the taste and the touch, are alike in their nature and their chemical composition. Those three things are gum, starch, and sugar. We often eat these, especially the two last, without being aware of it. Arrowroot is starch. There is starch in potatoes and in bread. Indeed, the more of it there is in potatoes, the more nourishing they are. There is sugar not only in most ripe fruits, but in many roots, as turnips, carrots, and parsnips ; and in many vegetables, as in young green peas. When they grow older, it changes into starch. Very much of the sugar eaten in France is made from the beetroot or mangold- wurtzel. Sugar helps to fatten, and is therefore one of the aliments which supply animal heat. It is a valuable addition to food, though not an economical one ; and families who can afford its use are to blame if they pinch themselves in the article of sugar. Sweet things, however, require to be backed up with a supply of those kinds of food which nourish the body—that is, which supply the materials for growth. Short-cake is merely pie-crust sweetened with a little sugar, rolled out about three-quarters of an inch thick, and then baked in pieces of any convenient size. It is mostly eaten hot, as a little treat, at tea-time or supper, and is often made of what remains over and above of Good Common Pie-Crust.—You may make this by putting six or seven ounces of finely-chopped suet, with a little salt, to every pound of flour, and working it into a paste with a little cold water. But it is better to “ try down,” or melt in a saucepan over a gentle fire, any suet or fat you happen to have, and put it to the flour just before it gets cold. Very eatable crust may be made with the dripping from roast beef, veal, pork, or mutton. Even goose-dripping makes a not bad crust (though a little strong in flavour) for meat dumplings or pies. Butter is really the grease for pie-crust. Sweet, fresh pork-lard, too, makes excellent pie-crust, but it is often as dear as butter, so that it is a-eiuestion of price which you will use. The quantity of fat to each pound of flour is also a matter on which you will consult your pocket, and cut your garment according to your cloth. Ten