The University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: 0)0^1 h HWM Q 0106 01121 988 7Published by T. Allman, IlolborvA NEW SYSTEM OP DOMESTIC COOKERY: FORMED Ul'ON PRINCIPLES OP ECONOMY, AND ADAITRD TO TIIK USE OF PRIVATE FAMILIES BY A LAD Y. WITH THE ADDITION OP MANY NEW llECEll’T.S. L O N I) O N : ITUNTED FOli THOMAS AM-MAN, 43, HOLEOUN HILL, AN’I) SOLD HY a\I.U B00K«KM.E,TS. 18^:2.W. J. So!> 3.3, Ivy-Ume, Newgate-streew iuio UN1VER31T¥ UBHARYiADVERTISEMENT. As the following directions were intended for the conduct of the families of the Authoress's own daugh- ters, and for the arrangement of their table, so as to unite a good figure with proper economy, she has avoided all excessive luxury, such as essence of ham, and that wasteful expenditure of large quantities of meat for gravy, which so greatly contributes to keep up the price, and is no less injurious to those who eat than to those whose penury obliges them to abstain. Many receipts are given for things, which being in daily use, the mode of preparing them may be supposed too well known to require a })lace in a cookery-book; yet how rarely do AV'e meet with fine melted butter, good toast and water, or well-made coffee! She makes no apology for minuteness in some articles, or for leaving others unnoticed, because she does not write for professed cooks. This little work would have been a trea- sure to herself when she first set out in life, and she therefore hopes it may prove useful to others. In that exjiectation it is given to the Public; and as she will receive from it no emolument, so she trusts it will escape without censure.DIRECTIONS TO THE BINDER. PUita Al t of Cookery, to face Title. Piets 1 to face pa<re xxii. 2 XXIV. 3 XXV. 4 xxvii, 5 xxix. 6 a"d 7 {with the printed leaf of ex~ planafton, pages *2S and *20, placed between them) to face each other, and stand between pages 28 and 20. S to face page Si 9 83CONTENTS. INTRODUCTION. Page Miscellaneous observa- tions for the use of a mistress of a family .. The art of carving xxiii. PART I. fish. To choose fish 1 to 3 Observations on dressing fish 4 Turbot 5 To keep turbot “ To boil turbot 6 Salmon n To boil salmon ■< To broil salmon << To pot salmon << To dry salmon 7 An excellent dish of dried sal mon <i To pickle salmon, 7. An- other way << Salmon collared 8 Cod n Observations on cod .... “ Cod’s head and shoulders “ Crimp cod g Cod sounds, boiled, 9; broiled, 9. Ragout, 9. “ Currie of cod jO To dress salt cod •< Sturgeon « To dress fresh sturgeon .. “ To roast sturgeon, 10. An- other way “ An excellent imitation of pickled sturgeon 11 Thornback and skate .. Crimp skate •< Maids <• Boiled carp “ Stewed carp............ ** Baked carp j 2 Perch and tench •• To fry trout and grayline. (and perch and tench the same way) ■< Trout a la Genevoise .... “ DifTrent ways of dressing mackerel 13 Pickled mackerel, called caveach .... Red mullet i* To dress pipers 14 Tobakepike << Different ways of dressing haddocks “ To dry haddocks (and whi- tings the same way) .. “ Stuffing for pike, haddock, and small cod *• Soles 15 To boil or fry soles “ Stewed soles and carp.... “ Soles another way “ Soles in the Portuguese way “ Portuguese stuffing for soles baked 16 An excellent way of dres- sing a large plaice, especially if there be a roe <• To fry smelts •• Eels 17CONTENTS. Page Spitchcock eels 17 Fried eels “ Boiled ells “ Eel-broth, very nourish- ing for the sick, how to make “ Collared eel “ To stew lamprey as at Worcester, (and eels, soles, and carp, in the same way) “ Flounders 18 To fry flounders “ Water-souchy, “ Herrings and sprats “ To smoke herrings “ Fried Herrings “ Broiled Herrings 9 Potted herrings “ To dress red-herrings ... “ Baked herrings or sprats “ To broil sprats “ Lobsters, prawns, and shrimps !' To pot lobsters, 19. Ano- ther way, as at Wood’s hotel, (and mackerel, herrings, and trout, in the same manner) .Stewed lobster, a very high redsh 2d Buttered lobsters < t To roast lobsters (< Currie of lobsters prawns or < ( Prawns and cray-fish jelly, a beautiful dish in 21 To butter prawns shrimps or < < To pot shrimps Crabs i( Hot crab it Dressed crab, cold .... it Oysters i( To feed oysters “ To stew oysters 29 Page Boiled oysters ......... S'i To scallop oysters “ Fried oysters, to garnish boiled fish “ Oyster sauce, see Sauces. Oyster-loaves " Oyster-patties, see Patties To pickle oysters, 22. An- other way 2.3 PART II. MEATS. To choose meats 23 to 25 Observations on purcha- sing, keeping, and dress- ing meat 25 tc 29 To keep meat hot “ Venison. To keep venison “ To dress venison “ Haunch, neck, and should der of venison 30 To stew a shoulder of veni- son “ Breast of venison “ Hashed venison “ Beef. To keep beef 31 To salt beef or pork for eating immediately .... “ To salt beef red 32 The Dutch way to salt beef “ Beef a-la-mode “ A fiicandeau of beef .... 33 To stew a rump of beef, 33. Another way 34 To stew brisket of beef .. 35 To press beef “ To make hunter’s beef .. '• An excellent modeof dress- ing beef 36 To collar beef “ Beef-steaks “CONTENTS. Beef-8teal(8 and oyster- sauce 37 Staffordshire beef-steaks “ Italian beef-steaks “ I3eef-collop «■ Beef-palates “ Beef-cakes for a side dish of dressed meat 38 _ To pot beef, 33. Another way II To dress the inside of a cold sirloia of beef .... “ Fricassee of cold roast beef 39 To dress cold beef that has not been done enough, called Beef-olives, 39. The same called S.m- ders, 39. The same cal- led Cecils “ To mince beef “ To hash beef 40 Beef a-la-vingrette .... “ Round of beef “ Rolled beef that equals hare To roast tongue and ud- , 41 To pickle tongues for boiling, 41. Another way 11 To stew tongue 42 An excellent way of doing tongues to eat cold ... “ Beef heart << Stewed ox-cheek, plain .. “ To dress an ox-cheek ano- ther way 43 Marrow-bones “ Tripe << Soused tripe “ Ox-feet, or cow heels .... 44 Bubble and squeak ..... “ Veal. To keep veal •« Beg of veal Knuckle of veal Shoulder of veal Neck of veal Neck of veal 4-la-braise . Breast of veal lo roll a breast of veal, 46. Another way .... To collar a breast of veal to eat cold Chump of veal a-la-daube Veal rolls of either cold meat or fresh Harrico of veal A dunelm of cold veal or fowl ^ _ Minced veal To pot veal To pot veal or chicken with ham Cutlets Maintenon Cutlets another way, 49. Other ways Veal Collops To dress collops quick, 49. Another way Scallops of cold veal or chicken Fricandeau of veal, .50. A cheaper, but equally good one, 50. Another way Veal-olives Veal-cake Veal-sausages Scotch collops To boil calPs head To hash calfs head, 52. Another way Calf’s head fricasseed ... To collar calf’s head .... Mock turtle, 54. A cheaper way, 54. Ano- ther Another mock turtle Calf’s liver, 55. Roasted I'ape 44 45 li 46 if 47 ii It II II 48 II it II 49 II II 50 #1 51 <1 11 II II 53 II .54 11 IIrONTENTS, Page To dress the liver and lights 55 Calf’s Brains a la Maitre d’ Hotel 56 Sweetbreads, 56. Roasted ‘‘ Sweetbread ragout “ Veal-kidney “ Pork, 4’C, Observations on cutting up and dressing pork . “ To roast a leg of pork •. 57 To boil a leg of pork ... “ Loin and neck of pork ... 58 Shoulders and breasts of po'k “ Rolled neck of pork “ Spring or forehand of pork “ Sparerib “ Pork-griskin “ Blade-bone of pork “ To dress pork as lamb ... 59 Pork-steaks “ To pickle pork “ Sausages “ An excellent sausage, to eat cold •' Spadbury’s Oxford sau- seges To scald a sucking pig .. 60 To roast a sucking pig .. <( Pettitoes 61 To make excellent meat of a hog’s head tt To roast porker’s head .. To prepare pig’s check for 62 boiling (( To collar pig’s head ft To diy hog’s cheeks cs To force hog’s ears “ Different ways of dressing pig’s feet and ears .... “ I'ig’s feet and e;;rs fricas- seed “ Jelly of pig’s feet and ears 64 harslet “ Page Mock-brawn 54 Souse for brawn, and for pig’s feet and ears .... “ To make black pud' dings, 64. Two ether ways 65 White hog’s puddings ... 66 Hog’s lard “ To cure hams. 66. Two other ways, 67. Ano- ther way that gives a high flavour, 67. A me- thod of giving a still higher flavour 67 To make a pickle that will keep for years, for hams, tongues, or beef, if boiled and skimmed between each parcel of them 68 To dress hams Excellent bacon 69 The manner of curing Wiltshire bacon Mutton. Observations on keeping and dressing mutton .. “ Leg of mutton 70 Neck of mutton “ Shoulder of mutton roast- ed “ To dress haunch of mut- ton 71 To roast a saddle of mut- ton “ Fillet of mutton braised . “ Ilarrico “ To hash mutton 72 To boil shoulder of mut- ton with oysters .... “ Breast of mutton •• Loin of mutton 7.3 To roll loin of mutton ... «< Mutton liam «< Litton collops <•tX.i^TKKTS. Page Mutton cutlets in the Por- tuguese way 74 Mutton steaks “ Steaks of mutton, or lamb, and cucumbers *' Mutton steaks Mainte- non Mutton sausages “ To dress mutton rumps and kidney 75 An excellent hotch-potch, 75. Another “ Mutton kebobbed “ China chilo 76 Lamb. Leg of lamb “ Fore-quarter of lamb .... “ Breast oflamband cucum- bers “ Shoulder of lamb Sneed, with sorrel sauce “ Lamb steaks 77 House-lamb steaks, white, 77. Brown Lamb cutlets with spi- nach " Lamb’s head and h nge .. “ Lamb’s fry 78 Lamb’s sweetbrea-ls .... “ Fricasseed lambstones ... “ Fricassee of lambstones and sweetbreads, ano- ther way “ A very nice dish of lamb . 79 PART III. POULTRY, GAME, &C. To choose poultry.. 79 to 81 Directions for dressing poultry and game .... “ Poultry. To boil turkies “ To roast turkies ....... 82 Pulled turkies 83 Page To boil fowl, 82; w'th rice 83 Fowls roasted Fowls broiled, 83. Ano- ther way “ Davenport fowls “ A nice way to dress a fowl for a small dish ... 84 To force a fowd, iS:c “ To braise a fowl, &c “ Fricassee of chickens .... “ To pull chickens, 8.5. Another way 85 Chicken currie, 85. Ano- ther, more easily made . 86 To braise chickens “ Ducks roasted “ To boil ducks 87 To slew ducks “ To h.ash ducks “ To roast a goose ” To stew giblets “ Observations on dressing pigeons “ To stew pigeons, 88. Another way 88 To broil pigeons “ To roast pigeons “ To pickle pigeons “ Pigeons in jelly 89. The same, a beauliful dish . 89 To pot pigeons 99 Larks and other small birds Game, i^-c. To keep game, &c “ To dress pheasants and partridges 91 To pot partridge " A very cheap way of pot- ting birds “ To clarify butter for pot- ted things 92 To pot moor game “ To dress grouse "CONTENTS. Page To roast wild fowls 92 To dress wild ducks, teal, widgeon, dun-birds, &c. “ Woodcocks, snipes, and quails 93 Ruffs and reeves To dress plovers Plovers’ eggs To roast ortolans Guinea and pea-fowl .... Observations on dressing hares “ To roast hare 94 To jug an old hare *' BroiUd and bashed hare . 95 To pot hare “ Different ways of dressing rabbits “ To make a rabbit taste much like hare “ To pot rabbits 96 To blanch rabbit, fowl, &c. ‘‘ PART IV. SOCPS AND GRAVIES. General directions res- pecting soups & gravies “ Sotips, <^-c. Scotch mutton-broth .... 97 Veal-bro'h “ Colouring for soups or gra- vies 98 Julienne soup “ A clear brown stock for gravy-soup or gravy . “ An excellent soup “ An excellent white soup, 98. A plainer one ... 99 Giblet soup “ Partridge soup 100 Macaroni soup “ A pepper-pot, to be served in a tureen “ Turnip soup “ Old-peas soup 101 Green-peas soup Gravy-soup 102 Vegetablesoup, 102. Ano- ther way 103 Carrot soup “ Onion soup “ Spinach soup “ Scotch leek-soup 104 Hare soup “ Ox-rump soup “ Hessian soup and ragout . “ Soup 4-la-sap 105 Portable soup “ Soup maigre, 106. Ano- ther 106 Stock for brown or white 6sh soups “ Eel soup 107 Skate soup “ Excellent lobster soup .. “ Craw-fish or prawn soup 108 Oyster soup “ Gravies. General directions res- pecting gravies “ To draw gravy that will keep a week 109 Clear gravy “ Cullis, or brown gravy .. “ Bochamel, or white sauce 110 A gravy without meat. . . “ A rich gravy “ Gravy for a fowl when there is no meat to make it of Ill Veal gravy •< Gravy to make mutton eat like venison “ Strong fish gravy “ Savoury jelly, to put over cold pies “ PART V. SAUCES, &C. A very good sauce, esue-CONTENTS. Page cially to hide the bad colour of fowls 112 White sauce for fricassee of fowls, rabbits, white meat, fish, nr vegetables “ Sauce for wild fowl 113 (Another for the same, or for ducks “ An excellent sauce for carp, or boiled turkey ., “ .'sauce for fowl of any sort “ Sauce for c Id fowl, or partridge " Sauce a la Maitre d’Hotel. 114 A very fine mushroom sauce for fowls, or rab- bits “ Lemon white sauce, for b'.iled fowls “ Liver sauce “ Egg sauce “ Onion sauce “ Clear shalot sauce llfi To make parsley sauce when no parsley leaves are to be had “ Green sauce, for green geese, or ducklings ... “ Bread sauce “ Dutch sauce, for meat rr fi.sh “ Sauce Robart, for rumps or steaks “ Benton sauce, for hot or cold roast beef 116 Sauce for fish pies, where cream is not ordered, llfi. Another Tomata sauce, for hot or cold meats Apple sauce, for goose raid roast pork ... .. “ The old currant vauce for venison ... 117 Lemon sauce “ '’irrier ssuce for mutton “ Page Ham sauce H7 A very fine fish-sauce ... “ Fish sauce without b utter 118 Fish sauce a-la-Craster .. “ An excellent substitute for caper sauce “ Oyster sauce 119 Lobster sauce “ Shrimp sauce “ Anchovy sauce “ To melt butter: which is rarely well done, though an essential article .... 120 Vingaret, for cold fowl, or meat “ Shalot vinegar “ Camp vinegar ‘‘ Sugar vinegar “ Gooseberry vinegar “ Cucumber vinegar 12, Wine vinegar “ Nasturtions, for capers... . “ To make mustard “ Another way to make mustard, for immediate use 122 Kitchen pepper To dry mushrooms “ Mushroom powder To choose anchovies 123 Essence of anchovies .... To keep anchovies when the liquor dries “ To make sprats taste like anchovies “ Force-meat Force-meat ingredients . . 121 Force-meat, to force fowls or meat, 124; for cold savoury pies ^ Very fine force-meat balls, for fish-soups, or fish stewed, on maigre-days “ Force-meat, as for turtle, at the Bush, Bristol ... “ Little eggs for turtle .... 126CONTErr« Page Browning to colour and flavour made dishes ... 126 Casserol, or rice edging for a currie or fricassee “ PART VI. PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTRY. Savoury Pies Observations on savoury pies “ Eel pie 127 Cod pie “ Sole pie 128 Shrimp pie, txcellent .... ‘ Lobster pie “ A remarkably fine fisl- pie. “ Pilrhaid and leek pie .... 129 Beef-steak pie “ Veal pie, 12^ A rich one “ Veal (or ca'.tken) a* d parsley p:e 130 Veal-olive pie “ Cairs-hcad pie “ Pork pies, to eat co'.d ., 31 Mutton pie “ Squab p'e ]32 Lamb pie “ Chicken pie (and rabbits the same way) “ Green-goose pie ........ 133 Duck pie “ Giblet ])ie “ Pigeon pie 134 Partridge pie in a dish ... “ Hare pie, to eat cold .... “ A French pie “ Vegetable pie “ Parsley pie 135 Turnip pie *• Potatoe pie “ A herb pie “ Raised crust for meat pies, or fowls, &c “ Page Puddings, ^-c. Observations on making puddings and pancakes 136 Almond puddingc, 137. Baked, 137. Small ones 137 Sago pudding “ Bread and butter pud- ding 139 Orange pudding, three sorts “ An excellent lemon pud- ding “ A very fine amber pud- ding “ Baked apple pudding .... 13- Oatmeal pudding “ Dutch pudding, or sous- fer “ A Dutch rice pudding ... “ Light or German puddings orpufl’s 140 Little bread puddings ... “ Puddings in haste “ New college puddings ... “ Boiled bread pudding, 141. Another and richer 141 Brown-bread pudding ... “ Nelson puddings “ Eve’s pudding 142 Quaking pudding “ Duke or Cumbei land’s pudding “ Transparent pudding .... “ Batter pudding, 142 With meat 143 Rice small pudding “ Plain rice pudding “ A rich rice pudding “ Rice pudding with fruit .. 144 Baked rice pudding, 144. Another, for the family “ A George pudding “ An excellent plain potatoe pudding 145CONTENTS. Page Page Fotatoe pudding with meat 145 Steak or kidney pudding., “ Beef-steak pudding, 115. Baked “ Mutton pudding, 145. An- other 146 Buet puddings “ Veal-suet pudding “ Hunter’s pudding “ Common plum-pudding .. 147 Custard pudding “ Macaroni pudding “ Millet pudding “ Carrot pudding “ An excellent apricot pud- ding 148 Baked gooseberry pud- ding •< A green-bean pudding ... " Shelford pudding “ Brandy pudding “ Buttermilk pudding 159 Curd puddings or puffs .. “ Boiled curd pudding .... Pippin pudding “ Yorkshire pudding 150 A quick made pudding . “ Kus'ian-seed, or ground- rice, pudding “ A Welch pudding “ Oxford dumplings “ Suet dumplings 151 Apple, currant, or dam- son dumplings or pud- dings “ Yeast or Suffolk dump- lings “ A Charlotte “ Common pancakes 152 Fine pancakes, fried with- out butter or lard “ Pancakes of rice “ Irish pancakes “ New-England pancakes . . “ Fritters 153 Spanish fritters " Potatoe fritters, .... 153. An- other way 153 Bookings “ Pastry. Rich puff paste 154 A less rich paste “ Crustfor Venison pasty., “ Rich paste for sweets ... “ Rich paste for relishing things 15J Potatoe paste “ Raised crusts for custards or fruits “ Excellent short crusts, three ways of makmg them “ A very fine crust for orange-cheese-cakes, or sweetmeats, when want- ed to be particul irly nice 15 Observations on pastry .. “ Remark on using preserv- ed fruit in ]>astry “ Apple pie, 157. Hot a_ - pie pie 157 Cherry pie t u Mince pie, 157. Wiit.ou meat “ Lemon mince pies ]5S Etrg mince pies “ Curjant and raspberry pie or tart “ Light paste for tarts and cheesecakes “ Iceing for tarts “ Pippin tarts 159 Prune tart “ Orange tart “ Cold in tart “ Rhubarb tart 160 Raspberry tart with cream “ Orange tart “ Fried patties <• Oyster patties, 160. The same, or sraa’l pie .... 161CONTENTS. Pag<5 Lobster patties J61 Podovies, or beef patties .. “ Veal patties “ Turkey patties “ Sweet patties 162 Patties resembling mince- pies “ Apple puffs “ Lenron puffs “ Cheese puffs “ Excellent light puffs .... 163 To prepare venison for pasty “ Venison pasty “ A pasty of beef or mutton, to eat as well as venison 164 Potatoe pasty “ Cheap and excellent cus- tards 165 Richer custards “ Baked custard “ Lemon custard “ Almond custard 166 Cheesecakes, 166. A plainer way, 166. Another way “ Lemon cheesecakes, 166. Another way 167 Orange cheesecakes Potatoe cheesecakes .... Almond cheesecakes, three ways “ Dough nuts 168 Tipsy cake ‘‘ Royal paste, called “ au Choux” 168* PART VII. VEGETABLES. Obsen'ations on dressing vegetables 169 To boil vegetables green “ How to boil vegetables green in hard water ... “ Vegetable marrow, to boil or stew •' To keep green peas 169* To keep green peas as prac Page tised in the emperor of Russia’s kitchen 169* Boiled peas ..... “ To stew green peas “ To stew old peas 170 To dress artichokes ..... “ Artichoke-bottoms “ Jerusalem artichokes .... “ To stew cucumbers, 170. Another way “ To boil or stew vegetable marrow “ To stew onions 171 Roast onions “ To f."tew celery “ To boil cauliflowers .... “ Cauliflower in white sauce “ To dress cauliflower and Parmesan “ To dress brocoli 172 Spinach “ To dress beans “ Fricasseed Windsor Beaus “ French beans “ To stew red cabbage, three ways “ Mushrooms 173 To stew mushrooms “ To stew sorrel for frican- deau and roast meat .. 174 French salad ‘ Lobster salad “ To boil potatoes “ To broil p taloes " To roast po'at les 17.5 To fry potatoes ” To mash po'atoes “ Carrots “ To stew carrots “ To mash parsnips “ Fricassee of parsnips .... “ To dress chrrdoons 176 Beet-roots “ Fryine herbs, as dressed in Staff.i dsh re “ Sea-cale 177 Laver “CONTENT*. Page To preserve several vege- tables to eat in winter: French beans, 177. Car- rots, parcnips, and beet- roots, 177- Store-onions, 177. Parsley, 177. Arti- choke-bottoms, truffles, morels, &r. 178. Cab- bages 178 Pickles. Rules to be observed with pickles “ Lemon pickle “ Indian pickle “ English bamboo 180 Melon mangoes ‘ “ Pickled lemons 181 Olives “ Pickled onions “ To pickle cucumbers and onions sliced To pickle young cucum- bers 182 To pickle walnuts, 182. Another way “ An excellent way to pickle mushrooms, to preserve the flavour 183 To pickle red cabbage ... “ Mushroom ketchup, 183. Another way 184 Walnut ketchup of the finest sort “ Cockle ketchup “ To keep capers 185 PART VIII. SWEET DISHES, PRESERVES, SWEETMEATS &C. Sweet Dishes. Buttered rice 185 Souffle of rice and apple. . “ Snowballs ‘‘ Lent p.otatoes “ A tanspy 1S6 Puits d’amour “ Page A very nice dish of maca- roni dressed sweet .... 186 Floatins island, two wavs (< Flummery 186. Dutch, 186. Rice 187 Somersetshire firmity .. . Curds and cream, 188. Another wav 188 A curd star 4 4 Blanc-mange, or bla- mange 4 4 Jaunemange 189 An excellent trifle 44 Gooseberry or apple trifle 44 Chantilly cake, or cake trifle <4 Gooseberry fool 19G Apple fool 4 4 Orange fool 4« A cream, 190. An excel- lent one 4 4 Burnt cream, two ways .. 191 Sack cream *4 Brandy cream 44 Ratafia cream, two ways 44 Lemon cream, 192. Yel- low, without cream, 192. White 192 Imperial cream 1 4 Almond cream 193 Snow cream 1 4 Coffee cream, mucli ad- mired 44 Chocolate cream 4< Codlin cream l< Excellent orange cream .. 4 4 Raspberry cream, two wavs 194 Spinach cream 44 4 4 Clouted cream 195 A froth to set on cream. custard, or trifle, which looks and eats well .... A carmel cover for sweet- meats “ Ca.Ps feet jelly, two sorts IWCONTENTS. Pape Orangfl jelly Hartshorn jelly Cranberry jelly Cranberry and rice jelly.. Apple jelly to serve at table, two ways To scald codlins Stewed golden pippins .. . Black-caps, two ways of making Stewed pears Baked pears Orange butter Wine roll To prepare fruit for child- ren : a far more whole- some way than in pies or puddings To prepare ice for iceing Ice waters Currant or raspberry water ice Ice creams Brown-bread ice Ratafia cream Colourings to stain jellies, ices, or creams London syllabub Staffordshire syllabub ... A very fine Somersetshire syllabub Devonshire junket Everlasting, or solid, sylla- bubs Lemon honeycomb Rice and sago milks .... A pretty supper dish .... Savoury rice Carrole of rice Casserol, or rice edging . . Salmagundy Macaroni, as usually serv- ed, 204. Two other ways Omlet 197 198 ( ( 199 U ( ( 200 ti u 201 (1 (( it ti it 202 (i ii it 203 Ii ti 204 Page Butter, to serve as a little di.sh 205 Ramakins “ Fondu “ Potted cheese 206 Roast cheese, to come up after dinner “ Welch rabbit “ Cheese toast “ Anchovy toast, two ways “ To poach eggs “ Buttered eggs 207 Scotch eggs “ A pepper pot “ The Staffordshire dish of frying herbs and liver , . “ To preserve suet a twelve- month 208 Sweetmeats. To green fruits for preserv- ing or pickling To clarify sugar for sweet- meats To candy any sort of fruit To prepare barberries for tartlets Barberries in bunches.... A beautiful preserve of apricots To preserve apricots in je"y To preserve green apri- cots -\pricots or peaches in brandy To dry apricots in half ... Apricot cheese Orange marmalade Lemon marmalade Transparent marmalade . . To butter oranges hot.... To fill preserved oranges ; a corner dish Whole oranges carved.,,, i4 t* 209 <4 (( 210 it 211 II • ( It 2 J2 u <(CONTENTS. Page Birttered orange juice, a cold dish 213 Orange chips “ Oranae biscuits, or little cakes “ Orange flower cakes 214 To preserve oranges or lemons in jelly " To keep oranges or lemons for puddings, &c 215 To preserve strawberries whole “ To preserve strawberries in wine " To dry cherries with sugar “ To dry cherries without sugar “ To dry cherries the best way 216 Cherries in brandy “ Cherry jam “ Currant jam, black, red or white “ Currant jellv, red or black ' 217 Apple marmalade “ Apple jelly for preserving apricots, or for any sort of sweetmeats “ Red apples in jelly “ Dried apples 218 To preserve jarganel pears most beautifully “ Gooseberry jam for tarts .. “ White gooseberry jam ... “ Gooseberry hops 219 Raspberry jam “ Another way 220 To preserve greengages ,. “ Damson cheese “ Muscle-plum cheese 221 Biscuits of fruit “ Quince marmalade “ To preserve whole or half quinces Pago Excellent sweetmeats for tarts, when fruit is plen- tiful 222 Magnum bonum plums; excellent as a sweet- meat or in tarts, though very bad to eat raw ... “ Lemon drops 223 Barberry drops ‘ Ginger drops ; a good sto- machic “ Peppermint drops 224 Ratafia drops “ Raspberry cakes “ To preserve fruits for winter use. Observations on sweet- meats 224 To keep currants 225 Cherries and damsons the same way ,..., 226 To keep gooseberries two ways “ Another way 217 To keep damsons for win- ter pies ; two ways, 227. another way 223 To preserve fruit for tarts or family desserts “ To keep lemon-juice .... " China-orange juice, a very useful thing to mix with water, in fevers,when the fresh juice cannot be procured 229 Different ways of dressing cranberries “ Orgeat, two ways “ Lemonade, to be made a day or two before wanted Another way ‘ Lemonade that has the appearance and flavour of jelly "CONTENTS. Rispbtny vinegar Page 230 Gingerbread, 241. Ano- Page PART IX. CAKES, BREAD, &C. ther sort, 441. A good plain sort, 241. A good sort without butter.... 241 Observations on making Rusks 242 and baking cakes 231 To make yeast, two ways it for rak'fts 232 To make bread 243 To ice a very large cake ,. (t American flour (( A common cake, 233. A very good one 233 The Rev. Mr. Hagget’s economical bread 244 An excellent cake Rice-and-wheat-bread ... 4 4 A very f.ne cake it French bread 245 Rout drop cakes 234 How to discover whether Flat cakes that will keep long in the house good <( bread has been adulte- rated with whitening or Little white cakes <{ chalk 245 Little short cakes 235 To detect bones, jalap. Plam cake; two ways, ashes, &c. in bread .... 4 « 235. Very good com- Excellent rolls 4 4 moil ones, 236. Little French rolls 44 ones to keep long .... 236 Brentford rolls 246 A good pound-cake • ( Potatoe rolls 44 A cheap seed-cake < ( Muffins 44 Another 237 Yorkshire cake 41 Common-bread cake .... C< Hard biscuits 44 Queen-cakes, two ways... ic Plain and very crisp bis- Shrewsbury cakes 238 cuits to Tunbridge cakes (( Rice-cake, two sorts .... <1 PART X. Water cakes (4 HOME-BREWERY, WINES, &c. Spunge cakes, 239. An- other, without butter .. 239 To brew very fine Welch ale 247 Tea cakes Strong beer, or ale 248 Benton tea cakes, 239. Excellent table-beer .... <4 Anothersort, as biscuits, 239. Another <( To refine beer, ale, wine, or cyder 249 A biscuit cake t( Extract of malt for coughs 44 Macaroons 240 To preserve yeast 250 Wafers 41 Remarks on English wines 44 Crack-nuts M A rich and pleasant wine 44 Cracknels it Raspberry wine 251 A good plain bun that may be eaten with or without toasting and Raspberry or currant wine, two ways of making 44 butter U Black-currant wine, very Richer buns 241 fine 44CONTENTS Page Excellent ginger wine, two ways of making .. 252 Orange wine “ Excellent cowslip wine .. 253 Elder wine, 253. White, very much like Fronti- niac “ Clary wine 254 Excellent raisin wine .... “ Raisin wine with cyder, 254. Without cyder .. 255 Sack mead Cowslip mead “ Imperial 256 Ratafia “ Raspberry brandy “ An excellent method of making punch 257 Verder, or milk punch ... 258 Norfolk punch, two ways “ White-currant shrub .... “ PART XI. DAIRY, AND POULTRY, Dairy. On the management of cows, &c 259 Observations respecting cheese 260 Two ways to prepare ren- net to turn the milk .. 262 To make cheese ‘■ To preserve cheese sound 263 To make sage cheese .... 264 Cream cheese, three ways of making << Rush cream cheese, two ways 265 Observations respecting butter “ To make butter 266 To preserve butter, 266. The best way of pre- serving butter for winter 267 To manage cream for whey-butter “ To scald cream as in the West of England 267 Buttermilk 268 To keep milk and cream . “ Syrup of cream “ Gallino curds and whey. krit 269 Poultry- Yard. Management of fowls ... “ To make hens lay 271 To fatten fowls or chickens in four or five days ... “ To choose eggs at market and preserve them .... 272 Feathers •• Ducks 273 Geese << Turkies 274 Pea fowl “ Guinea hens 275 Pigeons •< Rabbits 276 PART XII. COOKERY FOR THE SICK, AND FOR THE POOR. Sick-cookery. General remarks “ A clear broth that will keep long 277 A quick made broth .... “ A very supporting broth against any kind of weakness “ A very nourishing veal- broth “ Broth of beef, mutton, and veal “ Calves’ feet broth, two ways of making ••••.. 278 Chicken broth << Eel broth '< Tench broth •<CONTENTS. Page Beef tea 279 Dr. Ratcliff’s restorative pork-jelly “ Shank jelly “ Arrow root jelly “ Tapioca jelly “ Gloucester jelly 280 Panada, made in five mi- nutes, 280. Another 280. Another “ Chicken panade ” Sippets, when the stomach will not receive meat .. “ Different ways of prepar- ing eggs 281 Three great restoratives 281. Another, a most pleasant draught “ Caudle, three waj s of making 282 Cold caudle “ A flour caudle “ Rice caudle, 282. Another way of making “ To mull wine, 283. An- other way 283 To make coffee tloffee milk ” Chocolate 284 Patent cocoa “ Saloop “ Milk porridge, 284. French “ Ground rice milk “ Sago, 285. Sago milk , . 285 Asses’ milk “ Artificial asses’milk .... “ 'Two other ways of making “ Water gruel, two ways of making “ Barley gruel 286 A very agreeable drink ,. “ A refreshing drink in a fever, 286. Another drink, 286. Another . “ A most pleasant drink .. 287 Page Soft and fine draught for those who are weak and have a cough “ Toast and water “ Barley water, two ways of making “ Lemon water, a delightful drink “ Apple water 288 Raspberry vinegar water “ Whey “ White wine whey '* Vinegar and lemon wheys Buttermilk, with bread or without “ Dr. Boerhaave’s sweet buttermilk “ Orgeat 289 Orangeade, or lemonade . “ Egg-wine “ Cookery for the Poor. General remarks and hints 290 A baked soup *' An excellent soup for the weakly 298 Sago “ Caudle for the sick and the lying-in “ PART XIII. V.\IllOOS RECEIPTS, AND DI- RECTIONS TO SERVAVTS. Various Receipts. To make soft pomatum, two ways 293 Hard pomatum 293 Pomade divine “ Pot-pouri “ A quicker sort of sweetpot “ To make wash balls 295 Paste for chopped hands, and which will preserve them smooth by con- stant use 296COXTEN’TS. rr ror chopppd hps 29C Hungary wa.er “ Honey water << Lavender wafer. <i An excellent water to pre- vent hair from falling off, and to thicken it <■ B.ack paper for drawing patterns 297 Black ink, two wajs of fnaking u To cement broken china.. *< An excellent stucco, which will adhere to wood- work II Mason s washes for stucco, blue and \ ellow 298 Roman cement or mortar for outside plaisterinir, or brick-work ■« To take stams, iron- moulds, and mildew, out of linen 299 To make flannels keep their colour, and not shrink To preserve furs and wool- len from moths To dye the linings of fur- niture, &c. 300. Buir, or salmon colour, according to the depth of the hue; Pink, 300. Blue To dye gloves, to look like York tan or Limerick, according to the deep- ness of the dye 301 To dye white glovesa beau- tiful purp'e II A liquor to wash old deeds, &c. on paper or parchment, when the writing is obliterated, or, when sunk, to make it legible n To prevent the rot in sl-.eep “ Page To prevent green haj from firing 301 To preserve a granary from insects and wea- sels 302 To destroy crickets...., “ DtrecHons to Servants, To (lean calico furniture when taken down for the summer “ To clean plate •< To clean looking glasses ... “ To preserve gilding, and clean it 303 To clean paint “ To clean paper hangings “ To give a gloss to fine oak wainscot 304 To give a fine colour to mahogany “ To take ink out of maho- gany Floor cloths, 304. To clean them 30.') To dust carpets and floors “ To clean carpets “ To give to boards a beau- “ tiful appearance ...... “ To (xtract oil from boards or stone 306 To cban stone stairs and halls “ To blacken the fr-nts of stone chimney-piece.s .. “ To take stains out of mar- ble, 306. Iron stains '* Two ways of preservin irons from rust 307 To take rust out of steel.., “ To clean the back of the grate; the inner hearth ; and of cast iron stoves, the fronts 807. Another way to clean cast-iron and blav-k hearths . • • • • cCONTEXTS, To fake the black off the Page A strong paste for paper I’ase 308 bright bars of polished Fine blacking for shoes .. • « stoves in a few minutes To clean tin covers, and 307 Bills of Fare, Family Dinners, patent pewter porter- pots To prevent the creaking of 308 4-c. Bills of fare 309 a door « Family dinners 312 Index 325.MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS FOR THE USE OF THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. In every rank, those deserve the greatest praise, who best acquit themselves of the duties which their station requires. Indeed this line of conduct is not a matter of choice but of necessity, if we would maintain the dig- nity of our character as rational beings. ^ In the variety of female acquirements, though domes- tic occupations stand not so high in esteem as they for- merly did, yet when neglected, they produce much human misery. There was a time when ladies knew' nothing beyond their own family concerns; but in the present day there are many who know nothing about them. Each of these ex- tremes should be avoided: but is there no way to unite m the female character, cultivation of talents and habits of usefulness ? Happily there are still great numbers in every situation, whose example proves that this is possi- ble. Instances may be found of ladies in the higher walks of life, who condescend to examine the accounts of their house-steward; and, by overlooking and wisely directing the expenditure of that part of their hnsband’s income, which falls under their own inspection, avoid the inconveniences of embarrassed circumstances. How much more necessary, then, is domestic knowledge in those whose limited fortunes press on their attention'’con-( ii ) siJerations of the strictest economy ! There ought to be a material difference in the degree of care which a per- son of a large and independent estate bestows on money concerns, and that of a person in confined circumstances; yet both may very commendably employ some portion of their time and thoughts on this subject. The custom of the times tends in some measure to abolish the dis- tinctions of rank; and the education given to young peo- ple, is nearly the same in all: but though the leisure of the higher may be well devoted to elegant accomplish- ments, the pursuits of those in a middle line, if less or- namental, would better secure their own happiness and that of others connected with them. We sometimes bring up children in a manner calculated rather to fit them for the station we wish, than that which is likely they will actually possess ; and it is in all cases worth the while of parents to consider whether the expectation or hope of raising their cft'spring above their own situation be well-founded. The cultivation of the understanding and disposition, however, is not here alluded to; for a judicious im- provement of both, united to firm and early taught re- ligious principles, would enable the happy possessor of these advantages to act well on all occasions : nor would young ladies find domestic knowledge a burthen, or in-' consistent with higher attainments, if the rudiments of it were inculcated at a tender age, when activity is sot pleasing. If employment be tiresome to a healthy childt, the fault must be traced to habits which, from many causes, are not at present favourable to the future con- duct of women. It frequently happens, that before im- pressions of duty are made on the mind, ornamental 1( ili ) education commences; and it ever after takes llie lead; thus, what should be only the embellishment, becomes the main business, of life. There is no opportunity of attaining a knowledge of family management at school; and during vacation, all subjects that might interfere W’ith amusement are avoided. When a girl, wdiose family moves in the higher ranks oflife, returns to reside at her father’s house after com- pleting her education, her introduction to the gay world, and a continued course of pleasures, persuade her at once that she was born to be the ornament of fashionable circles, rather than to stoop (as she would conceive it) to undertake the arrangement of a family, though by that means she might in various ways augment the satisfaction and comfort of her parents. On the other hand, per- sons of an inferior sphere, and especially in the low'er order of middling life, are almost always anxious to give their children such advantages of education as them- selves did not possess. Whether their indulgence be productive of the happiness so kindly aimed at, must be judged by the effects, which are not very favourable, if what has been taught has not produced humility in her- self, and increased gratitude and respect to the authors of her being. Were a young w'oman brought to relish home society, and the calm delights of agreeable occu- pation, before she entered into the delusive scenes of pleasure, presented by the theatre and other dissipations, it is probable she would soon make a comparison much in favour of the former, especially if restraint did not give to the latter additional relish. If we carry on our observations to married life, w’e shall find a love of employment to be the source of unnumbered( ) pleasures. To attend to the nursing, and at least early in- struction of children, and rear a healthy progeny in the ways of piety and usefulness : to preside over the family and regulate the income allotted to its maintainance : to make home the sweet refuge of a husband fatigued by in- tercourse with a jarring world : to be his enlightened com- panion and the chosen friend of his heart : these, these, are woman’s duties ! and delightful ones they are, if haply she be married to a man whose soul can duly es- timate her worth, and who will bring his share to the corumon stock of felicity. Of such a woman, one may truly say, “ Happy the man who can call her his wdfe. Blessed are the children w'ho call her mother.” When w'e thus observe her, exercising her activity and best abilities in appropriate cares and increasing ex- cellence, are w’e not ready to say, she is the agent for good of that benevolent Being, w^ho placed her on earth to fulfil such sacred obligations, not to waste the talents committed to her charge. When it is thus evident that the high intellectual at- tainments may find exercise in the multifarious'occupa- tions of the daughter, the wife, the mother, and the mis- tress of the house, can any one urge that the female mind is contracted by domestic employ ? It is however a great comfort that the duties of life are within the reach of humbler abilities, and that she whose chief aim is to fulfil them, will rarely ever fail to acquit herself well. United with, and perhaps crowning all the virtues of the female character, is that well-directed ductility of mind, which occasionally bends its attention to the smaller objects of life, knowing them to be often scarcely less essential than the greater.(V) Hence the direction of a t(d>le is no inconsiderable branch of a lady’s concern, as it involves judgment in expenditure; respectability of appearance; and the com- fort of her husband and those who partake their hospi- tality. The mode of covering the table differs in taste. It is not the multiplicity of things, but the choice, the dress- ing, and the neat pleasing look of the whole, which gives respectability to her who presides. Too much, or too little dinners are extremes not uncommon : the latter is in appearance and reality the effort of poverty or pe- nuriousness to be genteel-, and the former, if constantly given, may endanger the circumstances of those w'ho are not affluent. Generally sjieaking, dinners are far less sumptuous than formerly, when half a dozen dishes were supplied for what one now costs; consequently those whose for- tunes are not great, and wfflo wish to make a genteel ap- pearance, without extravagance, regulate their table ac- cordinglv. Perhaps there are few incidents in which the respecta- bility of a man is more immediately felt, than the style of dinner to which he accidentally may bring home a visitor. Every one is to live as he can afford, and the meal of the tradesman ought not to emulate the enter- tainments of the higher classes, but if two or three dishes are well served, with the usual sauces, the table-linen clean, the small sideboard neatly laid, and all that is necessary be at hand, the expectation of the husband and friend will be gratified, because no irregularity of domestic arrangement will disturb the social intercourse. The same observation holds good on a larger scale. In( vi ) all situations of life, the entertainment should be no less suited to the station, than to the fortune of the entertainer and to the number and rank of those invited. The manner of carving is not only a very necessary branch of information, to enable a lady to do the honours of her table, but makes a considerable difference in the consumption of a family : and though in large parties, she is so much assisted as to render this knowledge ap- parently of less consequence, yet she must at times feel the deficiency; and should not fail to acquaint herself with an attainment, the advantage of which is evident every day. Indeed, as fashions are so fleeting, it is more than pro- bable, that before the end of this century, great atten- tion to guests may be again the mode, as it wuis in the commencement of the last. Some people haggle meat so much, as not to be able to help half-a-dozen persons decently from a large tongue, or a sirloin of beef; and the dish goes away with the appearance of having been gnawed by dogs. If the daughters of the family were to take the head of the table under the direction of their mother, they would fulfil its duties wdth grace, in the same easy manner as an early practice in other domestic affairs gradually fits them for their owm future houses. Habit alone can make good carvers ; but some principal directions are hereafter given, with a reference to the an- nexed plates. The mistress of a family should always remember that the w’elfare and good management of the house depend on the eye of the superior; and consequently that no- thing is too trifling for her notice, whereby w\aste may be avoided and this attention is of more importance( vii ) now that the price of every necessary of life is increased to an enormous degree. If a lady has never been accustomed, while single, to think of family management, let her not upon that ac- count fear that she cannot attain it: she may consult others who are more experienced, and acquaint herself with the necessary quantities of the several articles of family expenditure, in proportion to the number it con- sists of, the proper prices to pay, &c. &c. A minute account of the annual income, and the times of payment should be taken in writing; likewise an es- timate of the supposed amount of each article of expence ; and those who are early accustomed to calculations on domestic articles, will acquire so accurate a knowledge of what their establishment requires, as will give them the happy medium between prodigality and parsimony, without acquiring the character of meanness. Perhaps few branches of female education are so use- ful, as great readiness at figures. Accounts should be regularly kept, and not the smallest article omitted to be entered; and if balanced every week and month, &c. the income and outgoings will be ascertained with faci- lity, and their proportions to each other be duly ol>. served. Some people fix on stated sums to be appro- priated to each different article, and keep the money in separate purses; as house, clothes, pocket, education of children, &c. Whichever way accounts be entered, a certain mode should be adopted, and strictly adhered to. Many women are unfortunately ignorant of the state of their husband’s income; and others are only made acquainted with it, when some speculative project, or profitable transaction, leads them to make, a false esti-(vUi) mate of what can be afforded; and it too often happens tnat both parties, far from consulting each other, squan- der money in ways that they w'ould even wish to forget: whereas marriage should be a state of mutual and perfect confidence, and similarity of pursuits, which would se- cure that happiness it was intended to bestow. There are so many valuable women who excel as wives, that it is a fair inference there would be few ex- travagant ones, were they consulted by their husbands on subjects that concern the mutual interest of both par- ties. Within the knowledge of the writer of these pages many families have been reduced to poverty by the want of openness in the man on the subject of his affairs; and though on these occasions the women were blamed, it has afterwards appeared, that they never were allowed a voice of enquiry, or suffered to reason upon what some- times appeared to them imprudent. Many families have owed their prosperity full as much to the propriety of female management, as to the know- ledge and activity of the father. The lady of a general officer observed to her man- cook, that her last weekly bill was higher than usual. Some excuse was offered;—to which she replied;— Such is the sum I have allotted to house-keeping should it be exceeded one week, the next must repay it. The general will have no public day this week.” The fault was never repeated. March’s “ Family Book-keeper,” is a very useful work, and saves much trouble; the various articles of expense being printed, with a column for every day in the year, so that at one view the amount of expenditure on each, and the total sum, may be known.( IX ) Ready-money should be paid for all such things as come not into weekly bills, and even for them a check is necessary. The best places for purchasing should be attended to. In some articles a discount of five per cent, is allowed for ready money in London and other large cities, and those who thus pay are usually best served. Under the idea of buying cheap, many go to new shops, but it is safest to deal with people of esta- blished credit wdio do not dispose of goods by under- selling. To make tradesmen wait for their money injures them greatly, besides that a higher price must be paid, and in long bills, articles never bought are often charged. Perhaps the irregularity and failure of payment, may have much evil influence on the price of various articles, and may contribute to the destruction of many families from the highest to the lowest. Thus regularly conducted, the exact state of money affairs will be known with ease; for it is delay of pay- ment that occasions confusion. A common-place book should be always at hand, in which to enter such hints of useful knowledge, and other observations as are given by sensible experienced people. Want of attention to what is advised, or supposing things too minute to be worth hearing, are the causes why so much ignorance prevails on necessary subjects, among those who are not backward in frivolous ones. It is very necessary for a woman to be informed of the prices and goodness of all articles in common use, and of the best times, as well as places, for purchasing them. She should also be acquainted with the cowpam/freprices of provisions, in order that she may be able to substitute( X ) those that are most reasonable, when they will answer as well for others of the same kind, but which are more costly. A false notion of economy leads many to pur- chase as bargains what is not wanted, and sometimes never is used. Were this error avoided, more money would remain for other purposes. It is not unusual among lower dealers to put off a larger quantity of goods, by assurances tliat they are .advancing in price ; and many who supply fancy articles are so successful in per- suasion, that purchasers not unfrequently go far beyond their original intention, even to their own future disquiet. Some things are better for keeping, and, being in con stant consumption, should be laid in accordingly ; such as paper, soap, and candles. Of these more hereafter. To give unvarying rules cannot be attempted; for people ought to form their conduct on their circum- stances, but it is presumed that a judicious arrangement according to them, will be found equally advantageous to all. The minutiae of management must be regulated by every one’s fortune and rank; some ladies, not defi- cient in either, charge tliemselves with giving out, once in a month, to a superintending servant, such quantities of household articles, as by observation and calculatioi^ they know to be sufficient, reserving for their own key the large stock of things usually laid in for very large families in the country. Should there be several more visitors than usual, they can easily account for increase of consumption, and vice versa. Such a degree of judg- ment will be respectable even in the eye of domestics, if they are not interested in the ignorance of their em- ployers; and if they are, their services will not compensate for want of honesty.( si ) "When young ladies many, they frequently continue their own maids in the capacity of house-keepers; wl.o, as they may be more attached to their interest than strangers, become very valuable servants. To such, the economical observations in this work will be as useful as the cookery; and it is recommendable in them to be strictly observant of both, v/hich in the course of a year or two, will make them familiar in the practice. It is much to be feared, that for the waste of many of the good things that God has given for our use, not abuse, the mistress and servants of great houses will hereafter be called to a strict account. Some part of every person’s fortune should be devoted to charity ; by which “ a pious woman will build up her house before God, while she that is foolish {i. e. lends nothing to the Lord,) pulls it down with her hands.” No one can complain of the want of gifts to the poor in this land:—but there is a mode of relief which would add greatly to their comfort, and which being prepared from superfluity, and such materials as are often thrown away, the expense would not be felt. In the latter part of this work some hints for preparing the above are given. By good hours, especially early breakfast, a family is more regular, and much time is saved. If orders be given soon in the morning, there will be more time to e.vecute them; and servants, by doing their work with ease, will be more equal to it, and fewer will be neces- sary. it is worthy of notice that the general expense will be reduced, and much time saved, if every thing oe( xii ) kept in its proper place, applied to its proper use, and mended, when the nature of the accident will allow, as soon as broken. If the economy of time was duly considered, the use ful affairs transacted before amusements were allowed, and a regular plan of employment was daily laid down, a great deal might be done without hurry or fatigue ; and it would be a most pleasant retrospect at the end of the year, were it possible to enumerate all tne valuable acquirements made, and the good actions performed by an active woman. If the subject of servants be thought ill-timed in a book upon family arrangement, it must be by those who do not recollect that the regularity and good manage- ment of the heads will be insufficient, if not seconded by those who are to execute orders. It behoves every person to be extremely careful whom he takes into his service; to be very minute in investigating the charac- ter he receives, and equally cautious and scrupulously just in giving one to others. Were this attended to, many bad people would be incapacitated for doing mis- chief, by abusing the trust reposed in them. It may be fairly asserted that the robbery or waste, which is but a milder epithet for the unfaithfulness of a servant, will be laid to the charge of that master or mistress, who knowing, or having well-founded suspicions of such faults, is prevailed upon by false pity, or entreaty, to slide him into another place. There are however some who are unfortunately capricious, and often refuse to give a cha- racter because they are displeased that a servant leaves their service: but this is unpardonable, and an absolute( xiii ) robbery, servants having no inheritance, and depending on their fair name for employment. To refuse counte- nance to the evil, and to encourage the good servant, arc actions due to society at large j and such as are honest, frugal, and attentive to their duties, should be liberally rewarded, which would encourage merit, and inspire servants with zeal to acquit themselves. It may be proper to observe that a retributive justice usually marks persons in that station sooner or later even in this world. The extravagant and idle in servitude, are ill prepared for the industry and sobriety on which their own future welfare so essentially depends. Their faults, and the attendant punishment come home when they have children of their own ; and sometimes much sooner. They will see their own folly and wickedness perpetuated in their offspring, whom they must not expect to be better than the example and instruction given by themselves. It was the observation of a sensible and experienced woman, that she could always read the fate of her ser- vants who married: those who had been faithful and in- dustrious in her service, continued their good habits in their own families, and became respectable members of the community; those who were the contrar}% never were successful, and not unfrequently were reduced to the parish. A proper quantity of household articles should b^ always ready, and more bought in before the others be consumed, to prevent inconvenience, especially in the country A bill of parcels and receipt should be required, even rf the money be paid at the lime of purchase; and, to( 3.1V ) avoid mistakes, let the goods be compared inth these when brought home. Though it is very disagreeable to suspect any one’s honest)', and perhaps mistakes have been unintentional; yet it is prudent to weigh meat, sugars, &c. when brought in, and compare with the charge. The butcher should be ordered to send the weight with the meat, and the cook to file these checks, to be examined when the weekly bill shall be delivered. Much trouble and irregularity are saved when there is company, if servants are required to prepare the table and sideboard in similar order daily. All things likely to be wanted should be in readiness; sugars of different qualities kept broken, currants washed, picked, and perfectly dry, spices pounded, and kept in very small bottles closely corked; not more than will be used in four or five weeks should be pounded at a time. Much less is necessary than when boiled whole in gravies, &c. Where noonings or suppers are served, (and in every house some preparation is necessary for accidental vi- sitors) care should be taken to have such things in readi- ness as are proper for either, a list of several will be sul> joined, a change of which may be agreeable, and if duly managed will be attended with little expence and much convenience. A ticket should be exchanged by the cook for every loaf of bread, which when returned will shew the number to be paid for; tallies may be altered, unless one is kept, by each party. Those who are served with brewer’s beer, or any other* articles not paid for weekly or on delivery, should keep)( XV ) a book for entering the dates; which will not only serve to prevent overcharges, but will shew the whole year’s consumption at one view. An inventory of furniture, linen, and China should 1)6 kept, and the things examined by it twice a year, or oftener, if there be a change of servants; into each of whose care the articles used by him or her, should be entrusted, with a list, as is done with plate. Tickets of parchment with the family name, numbered, and speci- fying what bed it belongs to, should be sewed on each feather-bed, bolster, pillow, and blanket. Knives, forks, and house-cloths, are often deficient: these accidents might be obviated, if an article at the head of every list required the former should be produced whole* or broken, and the marked part of the linen, though all the others should be worn out. The inducement to care of glass is in some measure removed, by the increased price given for old flint glass.—Those who wish for trifle dishes, but* ter-stands, &c. at a lower charge than cut glass, may buy them made in moulds, of which there is great va- riety that look extremely well, if not placed near the more beautiful articles. The price of starch depends upon that of flour- the best will keep good in a dry warm room for some years ; therefore when bread is cheap it may be bought to ad- vantage, and covered close. Sugars being an article of considerable expense in all families, the purchase demands particular attention. The cheapest does not go so far as that more refined; and there is difference even in the degree of sweetness. The white should be chosen that is close, heavy, and shin- ing. The best sort of brown has a bright gravelly look, D( xvi ) and it is often to be bought pure as imported. East In- dia sugars are finer for the price, but not so strong, con- sequenllj^ unfit for wines and sweetmeats, but do well for common purposes, if good of their kind. To prepare white sugar, pounded, rolling it with a bottle, and sifting* wastes less than a mortar. Candles made in cool weather are best; and when their price, and that of soap, which rise and fall together, is likely to be higher, it wdll be prudent to lay in the stock of both. This information the chandler can always give; they are better for keeping eight or ten months, and will not injure for two years, if properly placed in the cool; and there are few articles that better deserve care in bu)"- ing, and allowing a due quantity of, according to the size of the family. Paper, by keeping, improves in quality ; and if bought by half or whole reams from large dealers, will be much cheaper than purchased by the quire. The surprising in- crease of the price of this article may be accounted for by the additional duties, and a larger consumption, be- sides the monopoly of rags; of the latter it is said there is some scarcity, which might be obviated if an order were given to a servant in every family to keep a bag to 'teceive all the waste bits from cuttings out, &c. Many well-meaning servants are ignorant of the best means of managing, and thereby waste as much as would maintain a small family, besides causing the mistress of the house much chagrin by their irregularity ; and many families, from a want of method, have the appearance of chance rather than of regular system. To avoid this, the following hints may be useful as well as economical;—( xvu ) Every article should be kept in that place best suited to it, as much waste may thereby be avoided, viz. Vegetables will keep best on a stone floor if the air be excluded.—Meat in a cold dry place.—Sugar and sweet- meats require a dry place; so does salt.—Candles cold, but not damp.—Dried meats, hams, &c. the same.—All sorts of seeds for puddings, saloop, rice, &c. should be close covered to preserve from insects; but that will not prevent it, if long kept. Dread is now so heavy an article of expense that all waste should be guarded against; and having it cut in the room will tend much to prevent it. Since the scarcity in 1795 and 1800, that custom has been much adopted. It should not be cut until a day old. Earthen pans and co- vers keep it best. Straw to lay apples on should be quite dry, to prevent a musty taste. Large pears should be tied up by the stalk. Basil, savoury, or knotted marjoram, or London thyme, to be used when herbs are ordered; but with discretion, as they are very pungent. The best means to preserve blankets from moths is to fold and lay them under the feather-beds that are in use ; and they should be shaken occasionally. When soiled, they should be washed, not scoured. Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of soap. It should be melted in a large jug of water, some of which pour into the tubs and boiler; and when the la- ther becomes weak, add more. The new improvement on soft soap is, if properly used, a saving of near half in quantity; and though something dearer than the hard, reduces the price of washing considerably.( xviii ) Many good laundresses advise soaping linen in warm water the night previous to washing, as facilitating the operation wdth less friction. Soap should be cut with a wire or twine, in pieces that will make a long square when fisrt brought in, and kept out of the air two or three weeKs; for if it dry quick, it will crack, and when wet, break. Put it on a shelf, leaving a space between, and let it grow hard gradually. Thus, it will save a full third in the consumption. Some of the lemons and oranges used for juice should be pared first to preserve the peel dry ; some should be halved, and when squeezed, the pulp cut out, and the outsides dried for grating. If for boiling in any liquid, the first way is best. When these fruits are cheap, a pro- per quantity should be bought and prepared as above di- rected, especially by those who live in the country, where they cannot always be had; and they are perpe- tually wanted in cookery. When whites of eggs are used for jelly, or other pur- poses, contrive to have pudding, custard, &c. to employ the yolks also. Should you not want them for several hours, beat them up with a little water, and put them in a cool place, or they will be hardened and useless. It was a mistake of old, to think that the whites made cakes and puddings heavy; on the contrary, if beaten long and icparately, they contribute greatly to give lightness, are an advantage to paste, and make a pretty dish beaten with fruit, to set in cream, &c. If copper utensils be used in the kitchen, the cook should be charged to be very careful not to let the tin be rubbed off; and to have them fresh done when the least detect, appears, and never to put by any soup, gravy,( xix ) &c. in them, or imy metal utensil; stone and earthen vessels should he provided for those purposes, as likewise plenty of common dishes, that the table set may be used ‘o put by cold meat. Tin vessels, if kept damp soon rust, which causes /loles. Fenders, and tin linings of flower-pots, &c. should be painted every year or two. Vegetables soon sour, and corrode metals and glazed red ware, by which a strong poison is produced. Some years ago, the death of several gentlemen was occasioned at Salt-hill, by the cook sending a ragout to table, which she had kept from the preceding day in a copper vessel badly tinned. Vinegar, by its acidity does the same, the glazing being of lead or arsenic. To cool liquors in hot weather, dip a cloth in cold water, and wrap it round the bottle two or three times, then place it in the sun; renew the process once or twice. The best way of scalding fruits, or boiling vinegar, is in a stone jar on a hot iron hearth; or by putting the vessel into a sauce-pan of water, called a water-bath. If chocolate, coffee, jelly, gruel, bark, &c. be suffered to boil over, the strength is lost. The cook should be encouraged to be careful of coals and cinders ; for the later there is a new contrivance to sift, without dispersing the dust of the ashes, by means of a covered tin bucket. Small coal wetted makes the strongest fire for the back, but must remain untouched until it cake. Cinders, lightly wet, give a great degree of heat, and are better than coal for furnaces, ironing-stoves, and ovens.(XX) The cook should be charged to take care of jelly-bags, tapes for the collared things, &c. which if not perfectly scalded, and kept dry, give an unpleasant flavour when next used. Cold water thrown on cast iron, when hot, will cause it to crack. In the following and indeed all other receipts, though the quantities may be as accurately directed as possible, yet much must be left to the discretion of the person who uses them. The different tastes of people require more or less of the flavour of spices, salt, garlic, butter, &c. which can never be ordered by general rules; and if the cook has not a good taste, and attention to that of her employers, not all the ingredients which nature and art can furnish, will give exquisite flavour to her dishes. The proper articles should be at hand, and she must pro- portion them until the true zest be obtained, and a variety of flavour be given to the different dishes served at the same time. Those who require maigre dishes will find abundance in this little work; and where they are not strictly so, by suet or bacon being directed in stuffings, the cook must use butter instead; and where meat gravies, (or stock as they are called) are ordered, those made of fish must be adopted. DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. Thf, carving-knife for a lady should be light, and of a middling size and fine edge. Strength is less required than address, in the manner of using it; and to faeilitate( xxi ) this, the cook shall give orders to the butcher to divide the joints of the bones of all carcase-joints of mutton, lamb, and veal, (such as neck, breast, and loin;) whicli may then be easily cut into thin slices attached to the adjoining bones. If the whole of the meat belonging to each bone should be too thick, a small slice may be taken off between every two bones. The more fleshy joints (as fillet of veal, leg or saddle of mutton, and beef) are to be helped in thin slices, neatly cut and smooth; observing to let the knife pass down to the bone in the mutton and beef joints. The dish should not be too far off the carver ; as it gives an awkwark appearance, and makes the task more diffi- cult. Attention is to be paid to help every one to a part of such articles as are considered the best. In helping fish, take care not to break the flakes; which in cod and very fresh salmon are large, and con- tribute much to the beauty of its appearance. A fish- knife, not being sharp, divides it best on this account. Help a part of the roe, milt, or liver, to each person. The heads of carp, parts of those of cod and salmon, sounds of cod and fins of turbot, are likewise esteemed niceties, and are to be attended to accordingly. In cutting up any wild-fowl, duck, goose, or turkey, for a large party, if you cut the slices down from pinion to pinion, without making wdngs, there w'ill be more prime pieces. A Cod's Hep.d.—Fish in general requires very little carving, the fleshy parts being those principally esteemed. A cod’s head and shoulders, when in season, and pro- perly boiled, is a very genteel and handsome dish. When cut, it should be done wdth a fish-trowel, and the parts( xxii ) about the back-bone on the shoulders are the most firm and the best. Take off a piece quite down to the bone, in the direction a, h, c, d, putting in the spoon at a, c, and with each slice of fish give a piece of the sound, which lies underneath the back-bone and lines it, the meat of which is thin, and a little darker-coloured than the body of the fish itself: this may be got by passing a knife or spoon underneath, in the direction d,f. About the head are many delicate parts, and a great deal of the jelly kind. The jelly part lies about the jaw, bones, and the firm parts within the head. Some are fond of the palate, and others the tongue, which likewise may be got by putting a spoon into the mouth. Edge-hone of Beef.—Cut off a slice an inch thick all the length from a to h, in the figure opposite the last page, and then help. The soft fat which resembles mar- row, lies at the back of the bone, below c; the firm fat must be cut in horizontal slices at the edge of the meat d. It is proper to ask which is preferred, as tastes differ. The skewer that keeps the meat properly together when boiling is here shown at a. This should be drawn out before it is served up ; or, if it is necessary to leave the skewer in, put a silver one. Sirloin of Beef may be begun either at the end, or by cutting into the middle. It is usual to inquire whether the outside or the inside is preferred. For the outside, the slice should be cut down to the bones j and the same with every following helping. Slice the inside, likewise, and give with each piece some of the soft fat. The inside done as follows eats excellently: Have ready some shalot-vinegar boiling hot: mince the meat large, and a good deal of the fat; sprinkle it with salt, and• Plafe I.( xxiii ) pour the shalot-vinegar and the gravy on it. Help with a spoon, as quickly as possible, on hot plates. Round or Buttock of Beef is cut in the same way as fillet of veal, in the next article. It should be kept even all over. When helping the fat, observe not to hack it, but cut it smooth. A deep slice should be cut oft' the beef before you begin to help, as directed above for the Edge-bone. Fillet of Real.—In an ox this part is round of beef. Ask whether the brown outside be liked, otherwise help the next slice. The bone is taken out and the meat tied close, before dressing; which makes the fillet very solid. It should be cut thin and very smooth. A stuffing is put into the flap, which completely covers it; you must cut deep into this, and help a thin slice, as likewise of fat. From carelessness in not covering the latter with paper, it is sometimes dried up, to the great disappointment of the carver. Breast of Veal.—One part (which is called the brisket) is thickset, and has gristles; put your knife about four inches from the edge of this, and cut through it, which will separate the ribs from the brisket. Ask which is chosen, and help accordingly. Calf’s Head has a great deal of meat upon it, if pro- perly managed. Cut slices from a to b, in the figure opposite page 22, letting the knife go close to the bone. In the fleshy part, at the neck end c, there lies the thro.at sweetbread, which you should help a slice of from c to d with the other part. Many like the eye; which you must cut out with the point of your knife, and divide in two. If the jaw-bone be taken off, there will be found some fine lean. Under the head is the palate, which is( vxiv ) reckoned a nicety; the lady of the house should be ac- quainted with all things that are thought so, that she may distribute them among her guests. Shoulder of Mutton.—This is a very good joint, and by many preferred to the leg ; it being very full of gravy, if properly roasted, and produces many nice bits. The figure represents it as laid in the dish wuth its back upper- most, When it is first cut, it should be in the hollow part of it, in the direction of a, h, and the knife should be passed deep to the bone. The prime part of the fat lies on the outer edge, and it is to be cut out in thin slices in the direction e. If many are at ruble, and the hollow part cut in the line a, h, is eaten, some very good and delicate slices may be cut out on each side the ridge of the blade-bone, in the direction c, d. The line between these two dotted lines, is that in the direction of which the edge or ridge of the blade-bone lies, and cannot be cut across. ^ Le" of Mutton.—A leg of wether mutton (which is the best flavoured) may be known by a round lump of flit at the edge of the broadest part, as at a. The best part is in the midway, at b, between the knuckle and further end. Begin to help there, by cutting thin deep slices to c. If the outside is not fat enough, help some from the side of the broad end in slices from e to /. This part IS most juicy, but many prefer the knuckle, which in fine mutton will be very tender though dry. There are very fine slices on the back of the leg; turn it up, and cut the broad end ; not in the direction you did the other side, but longways. To cut out the cramp-bone, take hold of the shank with your left hand, and cut down to thePlate II Leg of Mutton. Quarter of Lamb.<KPlate III. Haunch of Venison. Ham. Goose.( XXV ) thigh-bone at d-, then pass the knife under the cramp-bone in the direction, d, g. A fore Quarter of Lamb.—Separate the shoulder from the scoven (which is the breast and ribs), by passing the knife under in the direction of a, b, c, d, in the figure opposite the last page; keeping it towards you horizou- ^lly, to prevent cutting the meat too much off the bones. If grass-lamb, the shoulder being large, put it into another dish. Squeeze the juice of half a Seville orange (or lemon) on the other part, and sprinkle a little salt and pepper. Then separate the gristly part from the ribs in the line e, c; and help either from that, or from the ribs, as may be chosen. Haunch of Venison.—Cut down to the bone in the line a, b, c, in the figure opposite the next page, to let out the gravy: then turn the broad end of the haunch to- ward you, put in the knife at b, and cut as deep as you can to the end of the haunch d; then help in thin slices, observing to give some fat to each person. There is more fat (which is a favourite part) on the left side of c and d than on the other; and those who help must take care to proportion it, as likewise the gravy, according to the num- ber of the company. Haunch of Mutton is the leg and part of the loin, cut so as to resemble haunch of venison, and is to be helpen at table in the same manner. Saddle of Mutton.—Cut long thin slices from the tail to the end, beginning close to the backbone. If a large joint, the slice may be divided. Cut some fat from the sides. Ham may be cut three ways; the common method is, to begin in the middle, by long slices from a to b, from( xxvi ) the centre through the thick fat. This brings to the prime at first; which is likewise accomplished by cutting a small round hole on the top of the ham as at c, and with a sharp knife enlarging that by cutting successive thin circles ; this preserves the gravy and keeps the meat moist. The last and most saving way is, to begin at the hock end (which many are most fond of), and proceed on- wards. Ham that is used for pies, &c. should be cut from the under side, first taking off a thick slice. Sucking Pig.—The cook usually divides the body be- fore it is sent to table, and garnishes the dish with the jaws and ears. The first thing is, to separate a shoulder from the car- case on one side, and then the leg according to the direc- tion given by the dotted line a, b, c. The ribs are then to be divided into about two helpings; and an ear or jaw' presented with them, and plenty of sauce. The joints may either be divided into two each, or pieces may be cut from them. The ribs are reckoned the finest part; but some people prefer the neck end, between the shoulders. Goose.—Cut off the apron in the circular line a, 6, c, in the figure opposite the last page; and pour into the body a glass of port wine; and a large tea-spoonful of mustard, first mixed at the sideboard. Turn the neck end of the goose towards you, and cut the whole breast in long slices from one wing to another ; but only remove them as you help each person, unless the company is so large as to require the legs likewise. This way gives more prime bits than by making wings. Take off the leg, byPlate IV. Hare. Neck Bone.( xxvii ) I putting the fork into the small end of the bon>., pressing it to the body, and having passed the knife at d, turn the I leg back, and if a young bird it will easily separate. To take off the wing, put your fork into the small end of the I pinion, and press it close to the body ; then put in the knife at d, and divide the joint, taking it down in the direction d, e. Nothing but practice will enable people to hit the joint exactly at the first trial. When the leg and wing of one side are done, go on to the other; but it is not often necessary to cut up the whole goose, unless the company be very large. There are two side bones ' by the w’ing, which may be cut off; as likewise the back and lower side-bones : but the best pieces are the breast, I and the thighs after being divided from the drum-sticks. Hai-e,—-The best way of cutting it up is, to put the point of the knife under the shoulder at a, in the figure opposite the next page, and so cut all the way down to the rump, on one side of the back-bone, in the line a, b. Do the same on the other side, so that the whole hare will j be divided into three parts. Cut the back into four, j which with the legs is the part most esteemed. The j shoulder must be cut off in a circular line, as c, d, a: I lay the pieces neatly on the dish as you cut them ; and then help the company, giving some pudding and gravy ' to every person. This way can only be practised when I the hare is young: if old, don’t divide it down, which Will require a strong arm: but put the knife between the ! leg and back, and give it a little turn inwards at the j joint; wdiich you must endeavour to hit, and not to 1 break by force- When both legs are taken off, there is a fine collop on each side the back, then divide the back I into as many pieces as yon please, and take off the( xxviii ) shoulders, which are by many preferred, and are called the sportsman’s pieces. When every one is helped, cut off the head, put your knife between the upper and lower jaw, and divide them, which will enable you to lay the upper flat on your plate; then put the point of the knife into the centre, and cut the head into two. The ears and brains may be helped then to those who like them. Carve Rabbits as directed the latter way for hare; cutting the back into two pieces, w^hich with the legs are the prime. A Fowl.—A boiled fowl’s legs are bent inwards, and tucked into the belly; but before it is served, the skew^ers are to be removed. Lay the fowl on your plate; and place the joints, as cut oflF, on the dish. Take the wing off in the direction of a to b, in the annexed engraving, only dividing the joint with your knife; and then with your fork lift up the pinion, and draw the wing to- wards the legs, and the muscles will separate in a more complete form than if cut. Slip the knife between the leg and body, and cut to the bone; then with the fork turn the leg back, and the joint will give way if the bird is not old. When the four quarters are thus removed, take off the merrythought from a, and the neck-bones; these last by putting in the knife at c, and pressing it under the long broad part of the bone in the line c, b. then lift it up, and break it off from the part that sticks to the breast. The next thing is, to divide the breast from the carcase, by cutting through the tender ribs close to the breast right down to the tail. Then lay the back upwards, put your knife into the bone half-way from the neck to the rump, and on raising the lower end it will separate readily. Turn the rump from you, and very1 I 1 t IPlate V. Pheasant.( xxix ) neatly take off the two sidesmen, and the whole will be done. As each part is taken off, it should be turned neatly on the dish : and care should be taken that what is left goes properly from table. The breast and wings are looked upon as the best parts ; but the legs are most juicy, in young fowls. After all, more advantage will be gained by observing those who carve well, and a little practice, than by any written directions whatever. A Pheasant.—The bird in the annexed engraving is as trussed for the spit, with its head under one of its wings. When the skewers are taken out, and the bird served, the following is the way to carve it: Fix your fork in the centre of the breast; slice it down in the lines a, b; take off the leg on one side in the dot- ted line b, d\ then cut off the wing on the same side, in the line c, d. Separate the leg and wing on the other side, and then cut off the slices of breast you divided be- fore. Be careful how you take off the wings; for if you should cut too near the neck as at g, you will hit on the neck-bone, from which the wing must be separated. Cut off the merrythought in the line/, g, bypassing the knife under it towards the neck. Cut the other parts as in a fowl. The breast, wings, and merrythought, are the most esteemed : but the leg has a higher flavour. Partridge.—The partridge is here represented as just taken from the spit; but before it is served up, the skewers must be withdrawn. It is cut up in the same manner as a fowl. The wings must be taken off in the lines a, b^ and the merrythought in the line c, d. The prime parts of a partridge are the wings, breast, and merrythought. But the bird being small, the two latter are not often divided. The wing is considered as the best, and the tip of it reckoned the most delicate morsel of the whole.( XXX ) Pigeons.—Cut them in half, either from top to bottom or across. The lower part is generally thought the best; but the fairest way is to cut from the neck to a, figure 7, rather than from c to b, by a, which is the most fashion- able. The figure represents the back of the pigeon; and the direction of the knife is in the line c, b, by a, if done the last way.DOMESTIC COOKERY. PART /. ' FISH. To choose Fiish I I Tr RBOT, if good, should be thick, and tlie belly of a yellowish white ; if of a bluish cast, or thin, they are bad. They are in season the greatest part of the summer. ■' I >'almon.—If new, the flesh is of a fine red (the gills ! particularly), the scales bright, and the whole fish stiff'. When just killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes, which gives great firmness ; by keeping, this 1 melts down, and the fish is nrore rich. The Thames salmon bears the highest price; that caught in the Se- I vern is next in goodness, and is even preferred by some.. Small heads, and thick in the neck, are best. Cod.—The gills shoidd be very red : the fish should be very thick at the neck, the flesh white and firm, and the eyes fresh. When flabby they are not good. They are in season from the beginning of December till the end of April. Skafe.—If good they al^ very white and thick. If too fresh they eat tough, but must not be kept above two days. Herrings.—If good, their gills are of a fine red and the eyes bright; as is likewise the whole fish, which must be stiff and firm. Soles.—If good they are thick, and the belly is of a cream colour; if this is of a bluish cast and flabby they are not fresh. They are in the market almost the whole year, but are in the !ii; best perfection about Uiidsummer. BDOMESTIC COOEERT, f Whitings.—The firmness of the body and fins is to be looked to, as in herrings ; their high season is during the first three months of the year, but they may be had a great part of it. Mackerel.—Choose as whitings. Their season is May, June, and July. They are so tender a fish that they carry and keep worse than any other. Pike.—For freshness observe the above marks. The best are taken in rivers : they are a very dry fish, and are much indebted to stuffing and sauce. Carp live some time out of water, and may therefore get wasted ; it is best to kill them as soon as caught, to prevent this. The same signs of freshness attend them as other fish 'Pencil.—They are a fine-flavoured fresh-w'ater fish, and should be killed and dressed as soon as caught.— When they are to be bought, examine whether the gills are red and hard to open, the eyes bright, and the body stiff'. The tench has a slimy matter about it, the clear- ness and brightness of which shew freshness. The sea- son is July, August, and September. Perch.—Take the general rules given to distinguish the freshness of other fish. They are not so delicate as carp and tench. Smelts, if good, have a fine silvery hue, are very firm, and have a rel'reshing smell like cucumbers newly cut. —They are caught in the Thames and some other large rivers. Mullets.—The sea are preferred to the river mullets, and the red to the grey. They should be very firm. —Their season is August. Gudgeons.—They are chosen by the same rules as other fish. They are taken in running streams ; come in about midsummer, and are to be had for five or si.x months. Eels.—There is a greater difference in the goodness of eels than of any other fish. The true silver-eel (so called from the bright colour of the belly) is caught in the Thames. The Dutch eels sold at Billi:igsgate are very bad; those taken in great floods are generallyPISH. good, but in ponds they have usually a strong ra ,k fla- vour. Except the middle of summer, they are always in season. Lobsters.—If they have not been long taken, the claws will have a strong motion when you put your fin- ger on the eyes and press them. The heaviest are the best, and it is preferable to boil them at home. When you buy them ready-boiled, try whether their tails are stitf, andpull up with aspring; otherwise that part will be flabby. The cock lobster is known by the narrow back part of his tail, and the two uppermost fins within it are stiff and hard; but those of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. The male, though generally smaller, has the highest flavour, the flesh is firmer, and the co- lour when boiled is a deeper red. Crabs.—The heaviest are best, and those of a mid- dling size are sweetest. If light they are watery : when in perfection the joints of the legs are stiff’ and the body has a very agreeable smell. The eyes look dead and loose when stale. Prajvns and Shrimps.—When fresh they have a Bweet flavour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright.—Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and may be judged by the same rules. Oysters.—There are several kinds; the Pyfleet, Col- chester, and Milford, are much the best. The native Milton are fine, being white and fat; but others may be made to possess both these qualities in some degree by proper feeding. When alive and strong the shell closes on the knife. They should be eaten as soon as oj^ened, the flavour becoming poor otherwise. The n>ck oyster is largest, but usually has a coarse flavour if eaten raw. Flounders.—They should be thick, firm, and have tlieir eyes bright. They very soon become flabby and bad. They are both sea and river fish. The Thames produces the best. They are in season from January to Marcli, and from July to September. Sprats.—Choose bj the sa-nc rules as Herrings.DOMESTIC COOKEIIY. 4 Observations on Dressing Fish. If the fishmonger does not clean it, fish is seldom very nicely done ; but those in great towns wash it be- yond what is necessary for cleaning, and by perpetual watering diminish the flavour. A\"hen quite clean, if to be boiled, some salt and a little vinegar should be put intotbe water to give firmness : but Cod, Whiting, and Haddock, are far better if a little salted, and kept a day ; and if not very hot w'eather, they will be good two days. Those who know how to purchase fish, may, by tak- ing more at a time than they want for one day, often get it cheap ; and such kinds as will pot or 2:>ickle, or kee^J by being sprinkled with salt and hung iqj, or by being fried will serve for stewing the next day, may then be bought with advantage. Fresh-water fish has often a muddy smell and taste : to take off which, soak it in strong salt and w'ater after it is nicely cleaned; or if of a size to bear it, scald it in the same; then dry, and dress it. The fish must be put into the water while cold, and set to do very gently, or the outside will break before the inner part is done. Crimp fish should be put into boiling w^ater ; and when it boils up, pour a little cold water in, to check extreme heat, and simmer it a few minutes. The fish-plate on which it is done may be drawn up to see if it be ready : it will leave the bone when it is.— It should then be immediately taken out of the water, or it will be woolly. The fish-plate should be set crossways over the kettle, to keep hot for serving; and a clean cloth cover the fish to prevent it losing its colour. Small fish nicely fried, covered with eeg and crumbs, make a dish far more elegant than if served plain.— Great attention should be paid to garnishing fish: use plenty of horse-radish, parsley, and lemon. VFhen well done, and with very good sauce, fish is more attended to than almost any other dish. The liverFISH. 5 and roe should be placed on the dish, so that the lady may see them, and help a part to every one. If fish is to be fried or broiled, it must be wrapt m a nice soft cloth after it is well cleansed and washed.— ^Vhen perfectly dry, wet with an egg if for frying, and sprinkle the finest crumbs of bread over it; if done a second time with the egg and bread, the fish will look much better; thenbaving a thick-bottomed frying-pan on the fire, with a large quantity of lard or dripping boiling-hot, plunge tbe fish into it, and let it fry middlingly quick, till the colour is a fine brown yellow, and it is judged ready. If it is done enough before it has obtained a proj)er degree of colour, the cook should draw the pan to the side of the fire; carefully take it up, and either place it on a large sieve turned upwards, and to be kept for that jnirpose only, or on the under side of a dish to drain; and if wanted very nice, a sheet of cap paper must be ])ut to receive the fish, which should look a beautiful colour, and all the crumbs appear distinct; the fish being free from all grease. The same dripping, with a little fresh, will serve a second time. IJutter gives a bad colour : oil fries of the finest colour for tliose who will allow the expense. Garnish with a fringe of curled raw' parsley, or pars- ley fried, which must be thus done : When w'ashed and picked, throw it again into clean water; when the lard or dripping boils, throw the parsley into it immediately from the water, and instantly it will be green and crisp, and must be taken iqi with a slice: this may be done after the fish is fried. If fish is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, floured, and put on a gridiron that is very clean; which, when hot, should be rubbed w'ith a bit of suet to prevent the fish from sticking. It must be broiled on a very clear fire, that it may not taste smoky; and not too near, that ,i may not be scorched. TUUnOT. To keep Turbot. If necessary, turbot will keep for two or three days,6 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and be in as high perfection as at first, if lightly rubbed over with salt, and carefully hung in a cold place. To boil Turbot. The turbot-kettle must be of a proper size, and in the nicest order. Set the fish in cold water suflicient to cover it completely, throw a handful of salt and a glass jf vinegar into it, and let it gradually boil: be very careful that there fall no blacks; but skim it well, and preserve the beauty of the colour. Serve it garnished with a complete fringe of curled parsley, lemon, and horse-radish. The sauce must be the finest lobster, and anchovy, butter, and plain butter, served plentifully in separate tureens. SALMON. To boil Salmon. Clean it carefully, boil it gently, and take it out of the w'ater as soon as done. Let the water be w'arm if the fish be split. If underdone it is very unwhole- some. Shrimp or anchovy-sauce. To broil Salmon. Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and salt; lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well buttered, twist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy-sauce. 7o pot Salmon. Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but don’t wash it; salt very well, let it lie till the salt is melted and drained from it, then season with beaten mace, cloves and whole pepper: lay in a few bay-leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it over with butter, and bake it; when well done, drain it from the gravy, put it into the pots to keep, and when cold cover it with clarified butter. In this manner you may do any firm fish.FISH. i To dry Salmon. Cut the fish down, take out the inside and roe. Rub the whole with common salt after scaling it; let it hang 24 hours to drain. Pound three or four ounces of salt- petre, according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay salt, and two ounces of coarse sugar; rub these, when mixed well, into the salmon, and lay it on a large dish or tray two days, then rub it well with common salt, and in 24 hours more it will be fit to dry; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chim- ney, or in a dry place; keeping it open with two small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just wanned through ; egg-sauce and mashed potatoes with it; or it may be boiled, especially the bit next the head. Art excellent dish of dried Salmon. Pull some into flakes; have ready some eggs boiled hard, and chopped large ; put both into half a pint of thin cream, and two or three ounces of butter nibbed with a tea-spoonful of flour; skim it and stir till boil- ing hot; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of a dish, and pour the above into it. To pickle Salmon. Boil as before directed, take the fish out, and boil the liquor with bay-leaves, pepper-corns, and salt; add vinegar, when cold, and pour it over the fish. Ariolker way. After scaling and cleaning, split the salmon, and di- vide into such pieces as you choose, lay it in the kettle to fill the bottom, and as much water as will cover it; to three quarts put a pint of vinegar, a handful of salt, twelve bay-leaves, six blades of mace, and aquarterof an ounce of black pepper. When the salmon is boiled enough, drain it and put it on a clean cloth, then put more salmon into the kettle, and pour the liquor upon it, and so on till all is done. After this, if the pickle be not smartly flavoured with the vinegar and salt, add m ne, and boii it quick three quarters of an hour. WhenD03IEST1C COOKEBtY. 8 all is cold, pack the fish in something deep, and let there be enough of pickle to plentifully cover. Pie- serve it from the air. The liquor must be drained Irom the fish, and occasionally boiled and skimmed. Salvion collared. Split such a part of the fish as may he sufficient to make an handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having mixed salt, white pepper, pounded mace and Janiaica jiepper, in quantity to season it very high, rub it inside and out well. Then roll it tight and bandage it, put as much water and one-third vinegar as will cover it, with bay-leaves, salt, and both sorts ot pepjier. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil quick the lipuor, and put on when cold. Serve with lennel. It is an elegant dish, and extremely good. COD. Some people boil the cod whole; but a large head and shoulders contain all the fish that is proper to help, the thinner pai’ts being overdone and tasteless, before the thick are ready. But the whole fish may be pur- chased at times more reasonably ; and the lower half, if sprinkled and hung up, will be in high perfection one or two days. Or it may be made salter, and served with egg-sauce, potatoes, and parsnips. Cod when small is usually very cheap. If boiled quite fresh it is watery ; but eats excellently if salted and hung up for a day to give it firmness, then stutfed and broiled, or boiled. Cod's Head and Shoulders Will eat much finer by having a little salt rubbed down the bone, and along the thick part, even if to be eaten the same day. Tie it up, and put it on the fire in cold water which will completely cover it; throw a handful of salt into it. Great care must be taken to serve it without the smallest speck of black or scum. Garnish with a large (Quantity of double parsley, lemon, horse-radish, and the milt, roe, and liver, and fried smelts if approved.9 risii. Ef with smelts, be careful that no water hangs about the fish ; or the beauty of the smelts will be taken oil’, as well as their flavour. Serve with plenty of oyster or shrimp-sauce, and anchovy and butter. Crimp Cod. Boil, broil, or fry. Cod Sounds boiled. Soak them in warm water half an hour, then scrape ana clean ; and if to be dressed white, boil them in milk and water; when tender serve them in a napkin, with egg-sauce. The salt must not be much soaked out, unless for fricassee. Cod Soiuids to look like small Chickens. A good maigre-day dish. Wash three large sounds nicely, and boil in milk and water, but not too tender; when cold, put a forcemeat of chopped oysters, crumbs of bread, a bit of butter, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and the yolks of two eggs : spread it thin over the sounds, and roll up each in the form of a chicken, skewering it; then lard them as you would chickens, dust a little flour over, and roast them in a tin oven slowly. When done enough, pour over them a fine oyster-sauce. Serve for side of corner dish. To broil Cod Sounds. Scald in hot water, rub well with salt, pull off the dirty skin, and put them to simmer till tender; take them out, flour, and broil. While this is being done, season a little brown gravy with pepper, salt, a tea- spoonful of soy, and a little mustard: give it a boil with a bit of flour and butter, and pour it over the I sounds. Cod Sounds ragout. Prepare as above; then stew them in white gravy seasoned, cream, butter, and a little bit of flour added before you serve, gently boiling up. A bit of lemon- peel, nutmeg, and the least pounded mace, should give the flavour.K) DOMESTIC COOKERY. Currie of Cod Should be made of sliced cod, that has either been crimped or sprinkled a day, to make it firm. Fry it of a fine brown with onion ; and stew it with a good white gravy, a little currie-powder, a bit of butter and flour, three or four spoonfuls of rich cream, salt, and Cayenne, if the powder be not hot enough. To dress salt Cod. Soak and clean the piece you mean to dress, then lay it all night in water, with a glass of vinegar. Boil it enough, then break it into flakes on the dish ; pour over it parsnips boiled, beaten in a mortar, and then boiled up with cream and a large piece of butter rubbed with a bit of flour. It may be served as above with egg- sauce instead of the parsnip, and the root sent up whole; or the fish may be boiled and sent up without flaking, and sauces as above. STURGEON. To dress fresh Sturgeon. Cut slices, rub egg over them, then sprinkle with crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, salt: fold them in paper, and broil gently. Sauce; butter, anchovy, and soy. To roast Sturgeon, Put it on a lark-spit, then tie it on a large spit; baste it constantly with butter ; and serve with a good gravy, an anchovy, a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and a glass of sherry. Another. Put a piece of butter, rolled in flour, into a stew-pan with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, some pepper and salt, half a pint of water, and a glass of vinegar. Set it over the fire till hot; then let it be- come lukewarm, and steep the fish in it an hour or two. Butter a paper well, tie it round, and roast it without letting the spit run through. Serve with sorrel and anchovy-sauce.FISH. 11 excellent Imitation of pickle Sturgeoii. Take a fine large turkey, but not old : pick it very nicel}% singe, and make it extremely clean : bone and ■\vash it, and tie it across and across with a bit of mat- string washed clean. Put into a very nice tin saucepan a quart of water, a (piart of vinegar, a quart of white (but not sweet) wine, and a very large handful of salt; boil and skim it well, then boil the turkey. When done enough tighten the strings, and lay upon it a dish with a weight of two pounds over it. Boil the liquor half an hour ; and when both are cold, put the turkey into it. This will keep some months, and eats more delicately than sturgeon; vinegar, oil, and sugar, ai-e usually eaten with it. If more vinegar or salt shonld be wanted, add when cold. Send fennel over it to table. Thornback and Skate Should be hung one day at least before they are dressed ; and may be served either boiled, or fried in crumbs, I being first dipped in egg. Crimp Skate, Boil and send up in a napkin ; or fry as above. Maids I Shonld likewise be hung one day at least. They may i be boiled or fried ; or, if of a tolerable size, the middle may be boiled and the fins fried. They should be dipped in egg, and covered with crumbs. : Boiled Carp. Serve in a napkin, and with the sauce which you will find directed for it under the article Stewed Carp. Stewed Carp. Scald and clean, take care of the roe, &c. lay the fish I in a stewpan, with a rich beef gravy, an onion, eight cloves, a desert spoonful of Jamaica pepper, the same of black, a Iburtli part of the quantity of gravy of port /cyder may do); simmer close covered : when nearly done add two anchovies chopped fine, a desert spoonful of made mustard, and some fine walnut ketchup, a bit12 DOMESTIC COOKEKY. of batter rolled in flour, shake it, and let the gravy boil a few minutes. Serve with sippets of fried bread, the roe fried, and a good deal of horse-radish and lemon. Baked Carp. i Clean a large carp ; put a stuffing as for soles, dressed in the Portuguese way. Sew it up; brush it all over with yolk of egg, and put jilenty of crumbs ; then drop oiled butter to baste them; place the carp in a deep earthen dish, a pint of stock (or, if fast-day, fish-stock], a few sliced onions, some bay-leaves, a faggot of herbs i (such as basil, thyme, parsley, and both sorts of mar- j joram), half a pint of port wine, and six anchovies, cover over the pan, and bake it an hour. Let it be ■ i done before it is wanted. Pour the liquor from it, and keep the fish hot while you heat up the liquor with a good piece of butter rolled in flour, a tea-spoonful of mustard, a little Cayenne, and a spoonful of soy. Serve tlie fish on tlie dish, garnished with lemon, and parsley, and horse-radish, and put the gravy into the sauce- tureen. Perch and Tench. Put them into cold water, boil them carefully, and serve with melted butter and soy. Perch are a most delicate fish. They may be either fried or stewed, but in stewing they do not preserve so good a flavour. To fry Trout and Grayline. Scale, gut, and well wash; then dry them, and lay ' them separately on a board before the fire, after dusting some flour over them. Fry them of a fine colour with fresh dripping; serve with crimp parsley, and plain butter. Perch and Tench may be done the same way. Trout a-la-Genevoine. Clean the fish very well; put it into your stewpan, adding half Champaign and half Moselle, or Rhenish’ ! or Sherry wine. Season it with pepper, salt, an onion’ a few cloves stuck in it, and a small bunch of parsley a7id thyme ; put in it a crust of French bread • set it on 413 Fisir. H quick fire. When the fish is done, take the bread out, bruise it, and then thicken the sauce ; add flour and a little butter, and let it boil up. See that your sauce is of a proper thickness. Lay your fish on the dish, and pour the sauce over it. Serve it with sliced lemon and ffied bread. MACKEUKL. Boil, and serve with butter and fennel. To broil them, split, and sprinkle with herbs, pepper, and salt; or stuff with the same, crumbs, and choppecl tennel. Collared, as Eel, page 17. Potted : clean, season, and bake them in a pan with spice, bay-leaves, and some butter; when cold, lay them in a potting-pot, and cover with butter. Pickled ; boil them, then boil some of the liquor, a few peppers, bay-leaves, and some vinegar; when cold, pour it over them. Pickled Mackerel, called Caveach. * Clean and divide them; then cut each side into three, or leaving them undivided, cut each fish into five or six pieces. To six large mackerel, take near an ounce of jieppcr, two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, and a handful of salt, all in the finest powder ; mix, and making holes in each bit of fish, thrust the seasoning into them, rub each piece with some of it; then fry I them brown in oil; let them stand till cold, then put I them into a stone-jar, and cover with vinegar; if to keep long, pour oil on the top. Thus done they may be preserved for months. Red Mullet. It is called the Sea-Woodcock. Clean, but leave the inside, fold in oiled paper, and gently bake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from tl>e fish, with a ])iece of butter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a glass of sherry. Give it a boil; and serve in a boat, and the fish in the paper cases.14 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 7b dress Pipers. Boil, or bake them with a pudding well seasoned.— If baked, put a large cup of rich broth into the dish ; and when done, take that, some essence of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon, and boil them up together tor sauce. To bake Pike. Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, then stuff it with the following: grated bread, lierbs, ancho- vies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of cream, four yolks of eggs ; mix all over the fire till it thickens, then put it into the fish, and sew it up; butter should be put over it in little bits; bake it. Serve sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. A'ote: if in helping a pike, the back and belly are slit up, and each slice gently drawn downwards, there will be fewer bones given. HADDOCK. Boil or hroil with stuffing as under, having salted them a day. To dry Haddock. Choose them of two or three pounds w'eight: take out the gills, eyes, and entrails, and remove the blood from the backbone. Wipe them dry, and put some salt into the bodies and eyes. Lay them on a board for a night; then hang them up in a dry place, and after three or four days, they will be fit to eat; skin and rub them with egg, and strew crumbs over them. Lay them be- fore the fire, and baste w ith butter until brown enouo-h. Serve with egg-sauce. Whitings if large, are excellent this way; and it will prove an accommodation in the countiy where there is no regular supply of fish. Stuffing for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod. Take equal parts of fat bacon, beef-suet, and fresh butter, some parsley, thyme, and savoury ; a little onion, and a few leaves of scented marjoram shred fine; an anchovy or two; a little salt and nutmeg, and someFisir. 15 pepper Oysters will be an improvement with or with- oiit anchovies ; add crumbs, and an egg to bind. SOFKS. If boiled, they must be served with great care to jook perfectly white, and should be much covered with parsley. If fried, dip in egg, and cover them with fine cruml<s irf bread ; set on a frying-pan that is just large enough, and put into it a large quantity of fresh lard or dripping, boil it, and immediately slip the fish into it; do them of a fine brown. See to fry, page 12. Soles that have been fried eat good cold with oil, vine- gar, salt, and mustard. Stewed Soles. Do as carp, page 11. Soles another way. Take two or three soles, divide them from the back- bone, and take oft’ the head, fins, and tail. Sprinkle the inside with salt, roll them up tight from the tail end upwards, and fasten with small skewers. If large or middling, put half a fish in each roll: small do not an- swer. Dip them into yolks of eggs, and cover them with crumbs. Do the egg over them again, and then put more crumbs ; and fry them a beautiful colour in lard, or for fast-day in clarified butter. Soles in the Portuguese xcay. Take one large or two small : if large, cut the fish in two ; if small, they need only be split. The bones be- ing taken out, put the fish into a pan with a bit of bxit- tcr and some lemon juice, give it a fry, then lay the fish on a dish, and spread a forcemeat over each piece, and roll it round, fastening the roll with a few small skewers. Lay the rolls into a small earthen j)an, beat an egg and w'et them, then strew' crumbs over; and put the remainder of the egg, with a little meat-gravy, a spoonful of caper-liquor, ait anchovy chopped fine, and some parsley chopped, into the bottom of the pan ; cover it close, and bake till the fish are done enough in16 DOiTESTIC COOKERY. a slow oven. Uhen place tlie rolls in the disVi fol set^ • ing, and cover it to keep tlieni hot till the gia\y baked IS skimmed : if not enough, a little fresh, flavoured as above, must be prepared and added to it. Portuguese shijjfing for Soles baked. Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal, a little ; then add some fat bacon that has been lightly fried, cut small, and some onions, a little garlick or shalot, some parsley, anchovy, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; pound all fine with a few crumbs, and bind it with two or three yolks of eggs. The heads of the fish are to be left on one side of the split part, and kept on the outer side of the roll; and when served the heads are to be turned towards each other in the dish. Garnish with fried or dried parsley. An excellent way of dresshig a large Plaice, especially if there be a roe. Sprinkle with salt, and keep twenty-four hours; then wash and wipe it dry, wet over with egg, cover with crumbs of bread; make some lard or fine dripping, and two lai’ge spoonfuls of vinegar, boiling hot; lay the fish in, and fry it a fine colour, drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley round, and anchovy-sauce. You may dip the fish in vinegar, and not put it into the pan. To fry Smells. They should not be washed more than is necessary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth; then lightly flour them, but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread-crumbs, grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of boiling lard; let them continue f;ently boiling, and a few minutes will make them a )i'ight yellow-brown. Take care not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will bo hist. *17 FISH, EELS, Spitckcock Eels. Take one or two large eels, leave the skin on, cut them into pieces of three inches long, open them on the belly side, and clean them nicely : wipe them dry, and then wet them with beaten egg, and strew over on both sides chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a very little sage, and a bit of mace pounded fine and mixed with the sea- soning. Rub the gridiron with a bit of suet, and broil the fish of a fine colour. Serve with anchovy and butter for sauce. Fried Eels. If small, they should be curled round and fried, being first dipped into egg and crumbs of bread. Boiled Eels. The small ones are best: do them in a small quantity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which should be served up with them and the liquor. Serve chopped parsley and butter for sauce. Eel Broth, verij nourishing for the sick. Do as above; but stew two hours, and add an onion and pepper-corns : salt to taste. Collared Eel, Bone a large eel, but don’t skin it: mix pepper, salt, mace, allspice, and a clove or two, in the finest powder, and rub over the whole inside; roll it tight, and bind with a coarse tape. Boil in salt and water till enough, then add vinegar, and when cold keep the collar in pickle. Serve it either whole or in’slices. Chopped sage, parsley, and a little thyme; knotted marjoram, and savoury, mixed with the spices, greatly improve the taste. To Stew Lamprey as at Worcester. After cleaning the fish careftilly, remove the cartilage which runs down the back, and season with a small quantity of cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and all- spice ; put it into a small stew-pot, with very strong FDOMESTIC COOKERY. j8 beef-gravy, port, and an equal quantity of Madeira, or sherry. It must be cov ered close: stew till tender, then take out the lamprey and keep hot, while you boil up the liquor with two or three anchovies chopped, and soaie flour and butter; strain the gravy through a sieve, and add lemon-juice and some made mustard. Serve with sippets of bread and horse-radish. Eels, done in the same way, are a good deal like the lamprey. When there is spav.n, it must be fried and put round. ,Yo(e. Cyder will do in common instead o* wliite wine. FLOUNDERS. Let them be rubbed with salt inside and out, and lie two hours to give them some firmness. Dip them into egg; cover with crumbs, and fry them. Water Souchy. Stew two or three flounders, some parsley-leaves and roots, thirty pepper-coiTis, and a quart of water, till the fish are boiled to pieces: pulp them through a sieve. Set over the fire the pulped fish, the liquor that boiled them, some perch, tench, or flounders, and some fresh leaves and roots of parsley; simmer all till done enough, then serve in a deep dish. Slices of bread and butter are to be sent to table, to eat with the souchy. HERRINGS and SPRATS. To smoke Herrmgs. Clean, and lay them in salt and a little saltpetre one uight; then hang them on a stick, through the eyes, in a row. Have ready an old cask, on w’hich put some sawdust, and in the midst of it a heater red-hot; fix the stick over the smoke, and let them remain 24 hours. Fried Herrings. Serve them of a light brown, with onions sliced ana liied.19 FISH, Broiled Herrings. Flour them first, and do of a good colour : plain but- ter for sauce. Potted Herrings Are very good done like Mackerel, see page 13, To dress Red Herrings. Choose those that are large and moist, cut them open, and pour some boiling small beer over them to soak half an hour; drain them dry, and make them just hot through before the fire, then rub some cold butter over them and serve. Egg-sauce, or buttered eggs and mash- ed potatoes, should be sent up with them. Baked Herrings or Sprats. Wash and drain without wiping them; season with allspice in fine powder, salt, and a few whole cloves; lay them in a pan with plenty of black pepper, an onion, and a few bay-leaves. Add half vinegar and half small beer, enough to cover them. Put paper over the pan, and Ijake in a slow oven. If you like, throw saltpetre cfver them the night before, to make them look red. Gut, but do not open them. Sprats When cleaned, should be fastened in rows by a skewer run through the heads, and then broiled and served hot and hot. LOBSTERS and SHRIMPS. To pot Lobsters. Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small bits, season with mace, white pepper, nutmeg, and salt, press close into a pot and cover with butter, bake half an hour; put the spa\vn in. When cold take the lob- ster out, and put it into the pots with a little of the but- ter. Beat the other butter in a mortar with some of the spawn ; then mix that coloured butter with as much as will be sufficient to cover the pots, and strain it. Cay- enne may be added, if approved. Another way to pot Lobsters, as at Wood's Hotel. Take out the meat as whole as you can ; split the tail20 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and remove the gut; if the inside be not watery, add that. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a clove or two, in the finest powder. Lay a little fine butter at the bottom of a pan, and the lobster smooth over it, with bay-leaves between; cover it with butter, and bake gently. When done, pour the whole on the bottom of a sieve; and with a fork lay the pieces into potting-pots, some of each sort, with the seasoning about it. When cold, pour clarified butter over, but not hot. It will be good next day; or highly seasoned, and thick covered with butter, will keep some time. Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassee, with a cream-sauce: it then looks very nicely, and eats excellently, especially if there is spawn. Mackerel, Herrings, and Trout, are good potted as above. Stewed Lobster, a very high relish. Pick the lobster, put the berries into a dish that has a lamp, and rub them down with a bit of butter, two spoonfuls of any sort of gravy, one of soy, or walnut- ketchup, a little salt and Cayenne, and a spoonful of port; stew the lobster cut into bits with the gravy as above. Buttered Lobsters. Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm with a little weak brown gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and butter, with a little flour. If done white, a little white gravy and cream. To roast Lobsters. When you have half boiled the lobster, take it out of the water, and, while hot, rub it with butter, and lay it before the fire. Continue basting it with butter till it has a fine froth. Currie of Lobsters, or Prawns. Take them from the shells, and lay into a pan, with a small piece of mace, three or four spoonfuls of veal- gravy, and four of cream : rub smooth one or two tea- spoonfuls of currie-powder, a tea-spoonful of flour, andFISH. 21 an ounce of butter: simmer an hour; squeeze half a lemon in, and add salt. Prawns and Cray-fish in jelly, a beautiful dish. Make a savoury fish jelly, and put some into the bot- tom of a deep small dish : when cold, lay the cray-fish with their back downwards, and pour more jelly over them. Turn out when cold. To butter Prawns or Shrimps. Take them out of the shells; and warm them with a little good gravy, a bit of butter and flour, a scrape of nutmeg, salt, and pepper; simmer a minute or two, and serve with sippets: or with a cream-sauce instead of brown. To pot Shrimps, When boiled, take them out of the skins, and season them with salt, white pepper, and a very little mace and cloves. Press them into a pot, set it in the oven ten minutes, and when cold put butter. CRABS. Hot Crab. Pick the meat out of a crab, clear the shell from the head, then put the meat with a little nutmeg, salt, pep- per, a bit of butter, crumbs of bread, and three spoon- fuls of vinegar, into the shell again, and set it before the fire. You may brown it with a salamander. Dry toast should be served to eat upon. Dressed Crab cold. Empty the shells, and mix the flesh with oil, vinegar, salt, and a little white pepper and Cayenne: then put the mixture into the large shell, and serve. Very little oil is necessary. OYSTERS. To feed Oysters. Put them into water, and wash them with a birch- besom till quite clean ; then lay them bottom-down- wards into a pan, sprinkle with flour or oatmeal and salt, and cover with water. Do the same every day,22 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and they will fatten. The water should be pretty salt. To stew Oysters. Open and separate the liquor from them, then M'ash them from the grit; strain the liquor, and put with the oysters a bit of mace and lemon-peel, and a few white peppers. Simmer them very gently, and put some cream, and a little flour and butter. Serve with sippets. Boiled Oysters Eat well. Let the shells be nicely cleaned first; and serve in them, to eat with cold butter. To scallop Oysters. ' Put them with crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a bit of butter, into scallop-shells or saucers, and bake before the fire in a Dutch oven. Fried Oysters, to garnish boiled Fish. Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a very little, dip the oysters into it, and fry them a fine yellow-brown. A little nutmeg should be put into the seasoning, and a few crumbs of bread into the flour. Oyster Sauce. See Sauces. Oyster Loaves. Open them, and save the liquor; wash them in it; then strain it through a sieve, and put a little of it into a tosser with a bit of butter and flour, white pepper, a scrape of nutmeg, and a little cream. Stew them, and cut in dice; put them into rolls sold for the purpose. Oyster Patties. See Patties. To pickle Oysters. Wash four dozen of the largest oysters you can get in tneir own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, adding to it a desert-spoonful of pepper, two blades of mace, a table-spoonftil of salt, if the liquor be not very salt, three of white wine, and four of vinegar.—23 FISH. Simmer the oysters a few minutes in the liquor, then put them in small jars, and boil the pickle up, skim it, and when cold, pour over the oysters: cover close. Another way to pickle (/ • -kcs. Open the number you intend to pickle, put them into a saucepan with their own liquor for ten minutes, simmer them very gently; then put them into ajar, one by one, that none of the grit may stick to them, and cover them when cold with the pickle thus made. Boil the liquor with a bit of mace, lemon-peel, and black peppers, and to every hundred put two spoon- fuls of the best undistilled vinegar. They should be kept in small jars, and tied close with bladder, for the air will spoil them. Note.—Directions for making Fish Pies rvill be found under the head Pies. PART II. MEATS. To choose Meats. Venison.—If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, and the cleft part smooth and close, it is young ; but if the cleft is wide and tough, it is old. Tojudge of its sweet- ness, run a very sharp narrow knife into the shoulder or haunch, and you will know by the scent. Few people like it when it has much of the haut gout. Beef.—If the flesh of ox-beef is young, it will have a fine smooth open grain, be of a good red, and look ten- der. The fat should look white rather than yellow; for when that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good: beef fed by oil-cakes is in general so, and the flesh is flabby. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter, than that of ox-beef; but the lean is not of so bright a red. The grain of bull-beef is closer still, the fat hard and skinny, the lean of a deep red, and a24 DOMESTIC COOKERY. stronger scent. Ox-beef is tlie reverse. Ox-beef is the richest and largest, but in small families, and to some tastes, heifer-beef is better, if finely fed. In old meat there is a streak of horn in the ribs of beef: the harder this is, the older; and the flesh is not finely flavoured. V?al.—The flesh of a bull-calf is firmest, but not so white. The fillet of the cow-calf is generally pre- ferred for the udder. The w hitest is not the most juicy, having been made so by frequent bleeding and having had whiting to lick. Choose the meat of which the kid- ney is well covered with white thick fat. If the bloody vein in the shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is newly killed ; but any other colour shews it stale. The other parts should be dry and white ; if clammy or spot- ted, the meat is stale and bad. The kidney turns first in the loin, and the suet will not then be firm. Mutton.—Choose this by the fineness of its grain, good colour, and firm white fat. It is not the better for being yoimg; if of a good breed and well fed, it is better forage; but this only holds with wether-mutton : the flesh of the ew'e is paler, and the texture finer. Ram-mutton is very strong-flavoured; the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy. Lamb.—Observe the neck of a fore-quarter; if the vein is bluish, it is fresh; if it has a green or yellow cast, it is stale. In the hind-quarter, if there is a faint smell under the kidney, and the knuckle is limp, the meat is stale. If the eyes are sunk, the head is not fresh. Grass-lamb comes into season in April or May, and con- tinues till August. House-lamb may be had in great towns almost all the year, but is in highest perfection in December and January. Pork.—Pinch the lean, and if young it will break. If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be im- pressed by the finger, it is old. A thin rind is a merit in all pork. When fresh, the flesh wdll be smooth and cool; if clammy, it is tainted. What is called measly pork is very unwholesome ; and may be known by the fat being lull of kernels, which in good pork is never 1MEAT. 25 the case. Pork fed at still-houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy-fed pork is the best. Bacon.—If the rind is thin, the fat firm and of a red tinge, the lean tender, of a good colour, and adhering to the bone, you may conclude it good, and not old. If there are yellow streaks in it, it is going, if not already rusty. Hams.—Stick a sharp knife under the bone; if it comes out with a pleasant smell, the ham is good; but if the knife is daubed and has a bad scent, do not buy it. Hams short in the hock are best, and long-legged pigs are not to be chosen for any preparation of pork. Brawn.—The horny part of young brawn will feel moderately tender, and the flavour will be better; the rind of old will be hard. Observations, on purchasing, keeping, and dressing Meat, In every sort of provisions, the best of the kind goes farthest: it cuts out with most advantage, and affords most ncfurishment. Pound of beef, fillet of veal, and leg of mutton, are joints that bear a higher price; but as they have more solid meat, they deserve the prefer- ence. It is worth notice, however, that those joints which are inferior may be dressed as palatably: and being cheaper, they ought to be bought in turn; for, when they are weighed with the prime pieces, it makes the price of these come lower. In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bone should be taken out, as it is apt to taint; as also the kernels of beef. Rumps and edgebones of beef are often bruised by the blows the drovers give the beasts, and the part that has been struck always taints; there- fore do not purchase these joints if bruised. The shank-bones of mutton should be saved; and, after soaking and brushing, may be added to give rich- ness to gravies or soups. They are also particularly nourishing for sick persons.DOMESTIC COOKERV. 26 When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton, come in, part of the suet may be cut off for puddings, or to clarify Dripping will baste every thing as well as butter, except fowls and game; and for kitchen pies, nothing else should be used. The fat off a neck or loin of mutton makes a far lighter pudding than suet. Meat and vegetables that the frost has touched, should be soaked in cold water two or three hours before used, or more if they are much iced. Putting them into hot water, or to the fire, till thawed, makes it impossible for any heat to dress them properly afterwards. In warm weather, meat should be examined well when it comes in; and if flies have touched it, the part must be cut off, and then well washed. In the height of summer, it is a very safe way to let meat that is to be salted lie an hour in very cold water, rubbing well any part likely to have been fly-blown; then wipe it quite dry, and have salt ready, and rub it thoroughly in every part, throwing a handful over it besides. Turn it every day, and rub the pickle in, which will make it ready for the table in three or four days. If to be very much corned, wrap it in a well- floured cloth, after rubbingit with salt. This last method will corn fresh beef fit for the table the day it comes on, but it must be put into the pot when the water boils. If the weather permit, meat eats much better for hanging two or three days before it is salted. The water in which meat has been boiled makes an excellent soup for the poor, by adding to it vegetables, oatmeal, or peas. Roast-beef bones, or shank-bones of ham, make fine peas-soup; and should be boiled with the peas the day before eaten, that the fat may be taken off. In some families great loss is sustained by the spoil- ing of meat. The best way to keep what is to be eaten unsalted, is, as before directed, to examine it well, wipe it every day, and put some pieces of charcoal over it. If meat is brought from a distance in warm wea-MEAT. 37 ther, the butcher should be ordered to cover it close, and bring it early in the morning; but even then, if it is to be kept on the road while he serves his customers, who live nearest to him, it will very likely be fly-blown. This happens often in the country. Wash all meat before you dress it: if for boiling, the colour will be better for soaking; but if for roasting, dry it. Boiling in a well-floured cloth will make meat white. Particular care must be taken that the pot is well skim- med the moment \t boils, otherwise the foulness will be dispersed over the meat. The more soups or broth are skimmed, the better and cleaner they will be. The boiler and utensils should be kept delicately clean. Put the meat into cold water, and flour it well first. Meat boiled quick will be hard ; but care must be taken that in boiling slow it does not stop, or the meat will be underdone. If the steam is kept in, the water will not lessen much; therefore when you wish it to boil away, take off the cover of the soup-pot. Vegetables should not be dressed with the meat, except carrots or parsnips with boiled beef. As to the length of time required for roasting and boil- ing, the size of the joint must direct; as also the strength of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and in boiling, the regular though slow progress it makes; for if the cook, when told to hinder the copper from boiling quick, let it stop from boiling up at all, the usual time will not be sufficient, and the meat will Ije under-done. Weigh the meat; and allow for all solid joints a quar- ter of an hour for every pound, and some minutes (from ten to twenty) over, according as the family like it done. A ham of twenty pounds will take four hours and a half, and others in proportion. A tongue, if dry, takes four hours slow boiling, after soaking; a tongue out of pickle, from two hours and a half to three hours, or more if very large ; it must be judged by feeling whether it is very tender.28 DOMESTIC COOKERY. A leg of pork, or of lamb, takes the full allowance of twenty minutes, above a quarter of an hour to a pound. In roasting, beef of ten pounds will take above two hours and a half; twenty pounds will take three hours and three quarters. A neck of mutton will take an hour and a half, if kept at a proper distance. A chine of pork, two hours. The meat should be put at a good distance from the fire, and brought gradually nearer when the inner part becomes hot, which will prevent its being scorched while yet raw. Meat should be much basted; and when nearly done, floured to make it look frothed. Veal and mutton should have a little paper put over the fat to preserve it. If not fat enough to allow for basting, alittle good dripping answers as well as butter. The cook should be careful not to run the spit through the best parts; and should observe that it be well cleaned before and at the time of serving, or a black stain appears on the meat. _ In many joints the spit will pass into the bones, and run along them for some distance, so as not to injure the prime of the meat: and the cook should have leaden skewers to balance it with ; for want of which, ign orant servants are often troubled at the time of ser\dng. In roasting meat it is a very good way to put a little salt and water into the dripping pan, and baste for a little while with this, before using its own fat or drip- ping. When dry, dust it with flour, and baste as usual. Salting meat before it is put to roast draws out the gravy; it should only be sprinkled when almost done. Time, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of a proper size for what is required, are the first articles of a good cook’s attention in roasting. Old meats do not require so much dressing as young; not that they are sooner done, but they can be eaten with the gravy more in. A piece of writing paper should be twisted round the bone at the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of lamb, mutton, or venison, when roasted, before they are served.Plate VI \ f28* VENISON. 1. Haunch. 2. Neck. 3. Shoulder. 4. Breast. BEEF. Hind Quarter. 1. Sirloin. 2. Rump. 3. Edge Bone. 4. Buttock. 5. Mouse Buttock. 6. Veiny Piece. 7. Thick Flank. 8. Thin Flank. 9. Leg. 10. Fore Rib; 5 Ribs. Fore Quarter, 11. Middle Rib; 4 Riba. 12. Chuck ; 3 Ribs. 12. Shoulder or Leg of Mutton Piece. 14. Brisket. 15. Clod. 16. Neck or Sticking- Piece. 17. Shin. 18. Cheek.VENISON. 29 When you wish fried things to look as well as possible, do them twice over with egg and crumbs. Bread that is not stale enough to grate quite fine, will not look well. The fat you fry in must always be boiling hot the moment the fish, meat, &c. are put in, and kept so till finished; a small quantity never fries well. To keep meat hot.—It is best to take it up when done, though the company may not be come; set the dish over a pan of boiling water, put a deep cover over it so as not to touch the meat, and then throw a cloth over that. This way will not dry up the gravy. VENISON. To keep Venison. ' Preserve the venison dry, wash it with milk and water very clean, and dry it with clean cloths till not the least damp remains; then dust pounded ginger over every part, which is a good preventative against the fly. By thus managing and watching, it will hang a fortnight. When to be used, wash it with a little lukewarm water, and dry it. Pepper is likewise good to keep it. To dress Venison. A haunch of buck will take three hours and a half or three quarters roasting: doe, only three hours and a quar- ter. Venison should be rather over than under-done. Spread a sheet of white paper with butter, and put it over the fat, first sprinkling it with a little salt; then lay a coarse paste on strong paper, and cover the haunch: tie it with fine packthread, and set it at a distance from the fire, which must be a good one. Baste it often ; ten minutes before serving take ofi" the paste, draw the meat nearer the fire, and baste it with butter and a good deal of flour to make it froth up well. Gravy for it should be put into a boat, and not into the dish (unless there is none in the venison), and made thus: Cut off" the fat from two or three pounds of a loin of old mutton, and set it in steaks on a gridiron for a few minutes just to brown one side; put them into a sauce-pan with a quart of water, cover quite close for an hour, and simmerPlate VIog# VEAL 1. Loin, best End. 2. Loin, Chump End. 3. Fillet. 4. Hind Knuckle. 5. Fore Knuckle. 6. Neck, best End. 7. Neck, Scrag End. 8. Blade Bone. 9. Breast, best End. 10. Breast, Brisket End. PORK. 1. The Sparerib. 2. Hand. 3. Belly or Spring. 4. Fore Loin. 5. Hind Loin. 6. Leg. MUTTON. , 1. Leg. I 2. Loin, best End. i 3. Loin, Chump End. 4. Neck, best End. j 5. Neck, Scrag End. 6. Shoulder. 7. Breast. A Chine is two Loins. A Saddle is two Necks.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 30 it gently ; then uncover it, and stew till the gravy is ' reduced to a pint. Season with only salt. Currant-jelly must be served in a boat. Formerly pap-sauce was eaten with venison; which, as some still like it, it may be necessary to direct. Grate whitebread, and boil it with port wine, water, andalarge stick of cinnamon; and when quite smooth take out the cinnamon and add sugar. Claret may be used for it. Make the jelly-sauce thus. Beat some currant-jelly and a spoonful or two of port wine, and set it over the fire till melted. Where jelly runs short put more wine, and a few lumps of sugar, to the jelly, and melt as above. Serve with French beans. Haunch, Neck, and Shoulder of Venison. Roast with paste as directed above, and the same sauce. To stew a Shoulder of Venison. Let the meat hang till you think it fit to dress ; then take out the bone, beat the meat with a rolling-pin, lay some slices of mutton-fat, that have lain a few hours in a little port wine, among it, sprinkle a little pepper and all- spice over in fine powder, roll it up tight, and tie it. Set it in a stewpan that will only just hold it, with some mut- ton or beef gravy not strong, ^ pint of port wine; some pepper and allspice. Simmer it close-covered, as slow as you can, for 3 or 4 hours. When quite tender,take off then tape, set the meat in a dish ; strain the gravy over it; serve with currant-jelly sauce.—This is the best way to dress this joint, unless it is very fat, and then it should be roasted. The bone should be stewed with it. Breast of Venison. Do it as the shoulder, or make it into a small pasty. Hashed Venison Should be warmed wdth its own gravy, or some without seasoning, as before; and only warmed through, not boil- ed. If there is no fat left, cut some slices of mutton-fat, set it on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, simmer till dry, then put to the hash, and it will eat as well as theBELF. 31 fat of the venison.—For F'enisoti Pasfii hole under the head Pastuy; as likewise an excellent imitation. REEF. T0 keep Beef. The butcher shouhl take out the kernels in the neck- pieces whore the shoulder-clod is taken oil', two from each round of beef; one in the middle, which is called the pope's-eye; the other from the (lap : there is also one in the thick flank, in the middle of the fat. If these are not taken out, especially in the summer, salt wdll be of no use for keeping the meat sweet. There is another kernel between the rump and the edgebone. As the butchers seldom attend to this matter, the cook should takeout the kernels; and then rub the salt w'ell into such beef as is for boilin", and sli^htlv sprin ■ kle that which is for roasting. The (lesh of cattle that are killed when not perfectly cleared of food, soon spoils. They should fast twenty- four hours in winter, and double that time in summer, before being killed. To salt Beef or Pork for eating immediately. The piece should not weigh more than o or 6 pounds. Salt it very thoroughly just before you put it into the pot; take a coarse cloth, flour it well, put the meat in, and fold it up close. Put it into a pot of boiling water, and boil itas long as you would any other salt beef of the same size, and it will be as salt as if done four or five days. Great attention is requisite in salting meat; and in the country, where large quantities are cured, this is of par- ticular importance. Beef and pork should be well sprin- kled, and a few hours afterwards hung to drain, before it is rubbed vvith salt; which method, by cleansing the meat from the blood, serves to keep it from tasting strong. It should be turned every day; and if wanted soon, should be rubbed as often. A salting-tub or lead may be u.sed, and a cover to fitclose. Those who use a good ileal of salt meat, will find it answer well to boil up the pickle, o32 BOsrasfTic cooKEny. skim it, and when cold, pour it over meat that has been sprinkled and drained. To salt Beef red; which is extremely good to eat fresh fioin the Pickle, or to hang to dry. Choose a piece of beef with as little bone as you can (the flank is most proper), sprinkle it and let it drain a day ; then rub it with common salt, saltpetre,and bay- salt, but only a small proportion of the salt petre, and you may add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine powder. Hub the pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen drain it from the pickle; and let it be smoked at the oven-mouth when heated with wood, or send it to the baker’s. A few days will smoke it. A little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. It eats well, boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to be grated as Dutch, then cut a lean bit, boil it till extremely tender, and while hot put it under a press. When cold fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place 2 or 3 months, ready for serving on bread and butter. The Dutch way to salt Beef. Take a lean piece of beef; rub it well with treacle or brown sugar, and let it be turned often. In three days wipe it, and salt it with common salt and saltpetre beaten fine : rub these well in, and turn it every day for a fort- night. Roll it tight in a coarse cloth, and press it under a large weight; hang it to dry in a wood-smoke, but turn it upside down every day. Roil it in pump-water, and press it: it will grate or cut into shivers, like Dutch beef. Beef a-la mode. Choosea pieceofthickflankofafineheiferorox. Cut into long slices some fat bacon, butquitefree from vellow; let each bit be near an inch thick: dip them into vinegar, and then into a seasoning ready prepared of salt, black pej)per, allspice, and a clove, all in fine powder, w ith parsley, chives, thyme, savoury, and knotted marjoram, fthredas small as possible, and well mixed. W ith a sharp33 BEEP. knife make lioles deep enough to let in the larding; then rub the beef over v. itil the seasoning, and bind it up tight with tape. Set it in a well-tinned pot over a fire or ratlier stove ; three or four onions must be fried brown and put to the beef, with 2 or 3 carrots, 1 turnip, a head or two of celery, and a small quantity of water; let it simmer gently ten or twelve hours, or till ex- tremely tender, turning the meat twice. Put the gravy into a pan, remove the lat, keep the beef covered, then put them together, and add a glass of port wine. Take off the tape, and serve with the vegetables; or you may strain them off, and send them up cut into dice for garnish. Onions roasted and then stewed witli the gravy are a great improvement. A tea-cupful of vinegar should be stewed with the beef A Fricandeau of Beef. Take a nice bit of lean beef ;Iard it with bacon season- ed with pepper, salt, cloves, mace and allspice. Put it into a stew-pan with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlick, a shalot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is become tender, cover it close : skim the sauce well, and strain it: set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sorrel-sauce. Beef en Mirotarit Cut thin slices of cold roast beef and put them into a frying pan with a ^Ib. of butter, and six onions, turn the pan frequently, then mix a little broth and some salt, pepper, and alter a few boils serve up hot. This dish is e.xcellent and economical. 2'o stew a Rump of Beef . Wash it well; and season it high with pepper, Cayenne, salt, allspice, three cloves, and abladeof mace, all in fine powder. Bind it up tight, and lay it into a pot that will just hold it. Fry 3 large onions sliced, and put them to it, with 3 carrots, 2 turnips, a shalot, 4 cloves, a blade of mace, and some celery. Cover the meat withdomi:st;c cookery. 31 good beef-broth, or weak gra\y. Simmer it as gently as possible for several hours, till quite tender. Clear off the fat: and add to the gravy half a pint of port wine, a glass of vinegar, and a large spoonful of ketchup; simmer half an hour, and serve in a deep dish. Haifa pint of table-beer may be added. The herbs to be used should be burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, mar- joram, pennyroyal, knotted marjoram, and some chives if you can get them, but observe to proportion the quan- tities to the pungency of the several sorts; let there be a good handful altogether. Garnish with carrots, turnips, or truffles and morels, or pickles of different colours, cut small, and laid in little heaps separate ; chopped parsley, chives, beet-root, &.c. If, wdien done, the gravy is too much to fill the dish, take only a part to season for serving, but the less water the better; and to increase the richness, add a few beef- bones and shanks of mutton in stewing.—A spoonful cr two of mademustard is a great improvement to the gravy. Rump roasted is excellent; but in the country it is gene- rally sold whole with the edgebone, or cut across instead of lengthway s as in London, where one piece is for boiling, and the rump for stewing or roasting. This must be attended to, the whole being too large to dress together. Slewed Rump another way. Half-roast it: then put it into a large pot with 3 pints ofwarer, 1 of small beer, I of port wine, some salt, 3 or 4 spoonfuls of vinegar, 2 of ketchup, a bimch of sw'eet herbs of various kinds (such as burnet, tarragon, pars- ley, thyme, basil, savoury, pennyroyal, marjoram, knot- ted marjoram, and a leaf or two of sage), some onions, cloves, and Cayenne ; cover it close, and simmer till (|uite tender : 2 or 3 hours will do it. When done lay it into a deep dish, set it over hot water, and cover it close. Skim the gravy : put in a few pickled mush- rooms, tinfHes, morells, and oysters if agreeable, but it is good without; thicken the gravy with flour and but- ter, and heat it with the above, and pour over the beef. Forcemeat-balls of veal, anchovies, bacon, suet,BEEF. 35 herbs, spice, bread, and eggs, to bind, are a great im- j3rovement. To Stew Brisket of Beef. Put the part that has the hard fat into a stew-pot with a small quantity of water : let it boil up, and skim it tho- roughly ; then add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few pepper-corns. Stew till extremely tender; then take out the flat bones, and remove all the fat from the soup. Either serve that and the meat in a tureen ; or the soup alone, and the meat on a dish, garnished with some vegetables. The following sauce is much admired, serv- ed with the beef:—Take halfa pint of the soup, and mix it with a spoonful of ketchup, a glass of port wine, a tea- spoonful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter, and salt; boil all together a few minutes, then pour it round the meat. Chop capers, walnuts, red cabbage, pickled cucumbers, and chives or parsley, small, and put in separate heaps over it. • To press Beef. Salt a bit of brisket, thin part of the flank, or the tops of the ribs, with salt and saltpetre five days, then boil it gently till extremely tender : put it under a great weight, or in a cheese-press, till perfectly cold. It eats excellently cold, and for sandwiches. To make Hunters' Beef. To a round of beef that weighs twenty-five pounds, take three ounces of saltpetre, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, an ounce of cloves, a nutmeg, half an ounce of allspice, and three handfuls of common salt, all in the finest powder. The beef should hang two or three days: then rub the above well into it, and turn and rub it every day for two or three weeks. The bone must be taken out at first. When to be dressed, dip it into cold water, to take off the loose spice, bind it up tight with tape, and put it into a pan with a tea-cupful of water at the bottom, cover the top of the meat with shred suet, and the pan with a36 domestic cookery. brown crust and paper, and bake it five or six hours. When cold, take off the paste and tape. The gravy is very fine ; and a little of it adds greatly to the flavour of any hash, soup, &c. Both the gravy and the beef will keep some time. The meat should be cut with a veiy sharp knife, and quite smooth, to prevent waste. yin excellent Mode of dressing Beef. Hang three ribs three or four days ; take out the bones from the whole length, sprinkle it with salt, roll the meat tight, and roast it. Nothing can look nicer. The above done with spices, &c. and baked as hunters’ beef, is excellent. To collar Beef Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow- beef, but not too fat; lay it into a dish w'ith salt and saltpetre, turn and rub it every day for a w-eek, and keep it cool. Then take out every borie and gristle, remove the skin of the inside part, and cover it thick with the following sea- soning cut small: a large handful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, marjoram, and pennyroyal, pepper, salt, and allspice. Roll the meat up as tight as possible, and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must be put roundbefore the tape. Put the beef under a good weight while hot, without undoing it: the shape will then be oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled in with the beef, looks and eats very well. Beef-Steaks Should be cut from a rump that has hung a few days. Broil them over a very clear or charcoal fire: put into the dish a little minced shalot, and a table-spoonful of ketch- up ; and rub a bit of butter on the steak the moment of serving. It should be turned often, that the gravy may not be drawn out on either side. This dish requires to be eaten so hot and fresh-done, that it is not in perfection if served with any thing else. Pepper and salt should be added when taking it oil’ the fire.37 BEEF. Beef-Steaks and Oi/ster-sauce. Strain off the liquor from the oysters, and throw them into cold water to take off the grit, while you simmer the liquor with a bit of mace and lemon-peel; then put the oysters in, stew them a few minutes, add a little cream if you have it, and some butter rubbed in a bit offlour : let them boil up once; and have rump-steaks, well seasoned and broiled, ready for throwing the oyster-sauce over, the moment you are to serve. Staffordshire Beef-Steaks. Beat them a little with a rolling-pin, flour and season, then fry with sliced onion of a fine light brown; lay the steaks into a stew-pan, and pour as much boiling water over them as will serve for sauce : stew them very gently half an hour, and add a spoonful of ketchup, or walnut- liquor, before you serve. Italian Beef Steaks. Cut a fine large steak from a rump that has been well hung, or it will do from any part: beat it, and season with pepper, salt and onion; lay it in an iron stew- pan that has a cover to fit quite close, and set it by the side of the fire without water. Take care it does not burn, but it must have a strong heat: in two or three hours it will be quite tender, and then serve with its own gravy. Beef-Collop. Cut thin slices of beef from the rump, or any other tender part, and divide them into pieces 3 inches long; beat them with the blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry the collops quick in butter two minutes ; then lay them into a small stew-pan,and cover them with apint ofgravy; add a bit of butter rubbed in flour, pepper, salt, the least bit of shalot shred as fine as possible, half a walnut, 4 small pickled cucumbers, and a tea-spoonful of capers cut small. Take care that it does not boil; and serve the stew in a very hot covered dish. Beef-Palates. Simmer them in water several hours, till they will peel;38 DOMESTIC COOKERY. then cut the palates into slices, or leave them whole, as you choose ; and stew them in a rich gravy till as tender as possible. Belbre you serve, season them with cayenne, salt, and ketchup. If the gravy was drawn clear, add also some butter and flour. If to be served white, boil them in milk,and stew them in a fricassee sauce ; adding cream., butter, flour, and mushroom powder, and a little pounded mace. Beef Cakes for a side dish of dressed Meat. Pound some beef that is underdone with a little fat bacon, or ham; season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot, or garlick : mix them well; and make into small cakes 3 inches long; and half as wide and thick; fry them alightbrown, andserve them in agood thickgravy. To pot Beef. Take 2 pounds of lean beef, rub it with saltpetre, anl let it lie one night; then salt with common salt, and cover it with water 4 days in a small pan. Dr}"^ it with a cloth, and season with black pejiper; lay it into as small a pan as will hold it, cover it with coarse paste, and bake it five hours in a very cool oven. Put no liquor in. When cold, pick out the strings and fat; beat the meat very fine with a quarter of a pound of fine butter just warm, but not oiled, and as much of the gravy as will make it into a paste ; put it into very small pots, and cover them with melted butter. --Take beef that has been dressed, either boiled or roasted; beat it in a mortar with some pepper, salt, a few cloves, grated nutmeg, and a little fine but- ter just warm. This eats as well, but the colour is not so fine. It is a good way for using the remains of a large joint. To dress the Inside of a cold Sirloin of Beef Cut out all the meat, and a little fat, in pieces as thick AS your finger, and 2 inches long : dredge it with flour ; and fry in butter, of a nice brown : drain the butter fronr the meat, and toss it up in a rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt,anchovy, andshalot. Do not let it boil on39 BEEF. any account. Before you serve, add two spoonfuls of vinegar. Garnish with crimped parsley. Fricassee of Cold roast Beef. Cut the beef into very thin slices, shred a handful of parsley very small, cut an onion into quarters, and put all together into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and some strong broth: season with salt and pepper,and sim- mer very gently a quarter of an hour; then mi.v into it the yolks of 2 eggs, a glass of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar; stir it quick, rub the dish with shalot, and turn the fricassee into it. To dress cold beef that has not been done enough^ called Beef-Olives. Cut slices ^ an inch thick, and 4 inches sqiiare; lay on them a forcemeat of crumbs of bread, shalot, a little suet, or fat, pepper, and salt. Iloll them, and fasten with a small skew'er; put them into a stew-pan with some gravy made of the beef bones, or the gravy of the meat, and a spoonful or two of water, and stew them till tender. Fresh meat will do. To dress the same, called Smiders. Mince beef, or mutton, small, with onion, pepper and salt; add a little gravy ; ])ut it into scallop-shells, or saucers, making them three parts full, and till them up w ith potatoes, mashed with a little cream ; put a hit of butter on the top, and brown them in an oven or before the fire, or with a salamander. To dress the same, called Cecils. Mince any kind of meat, crumbs of bread, a good deal of onion, some anchovies, lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, and a bit of butter warm, and mix these over a fire for a few minutes ; when cool enough, make them up into balls of the size and shape of a turkey’s egg, with an egg: sprinkle them with fine crumbs, and then fry them of a yellow brown, and serve w ith gravy as before directed for Beef-olives. To mince Beef. Shred the underdone part fine, with some oftkefat j40 DOMESTIC COOKERY. put it into a small stew-pan, with some onion or shalot (a very little will do), a little water, pepper, and salt: boil it till the onion is quite soft, then put some of the gravy ofthemeat to it, and the mince. Don’t let it boil. Have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and pour the mince into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it: if shalot-vinegar is used, there will be no need of the onion nor the raw shalot. To hash Beef. Do it the same as in the last receipt; only the meat IS to be in slices, and you may add a spoonful of walnut- liqour or ketchup. Observe, that it is owing to hoiling hashes or minces that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a second time, should be only simmered; and this last only hot through. Beef d-la-vingrette. Cut a slice of underdone boiled beef three inches thick, and a little fat; stew it in half a pint of water, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a bay leaf; season it with three cloves pounded, and pepper, till the liquor is nearly wasted away, turning it once. When cold, serve it. Strain off the gravy, and mix it with a little vinegar for sauce. Round of Beef Should be carefully salted, and wet with the pickle for eight or ten days. The bone should be cut out first, and the beefskewered and tied uptomake itquiteround. It may be stuffed with parsley, if approved; in which case the holes to admit the parsley must be made with a sharp pointed knife, and the parsley coarsely cut and stuffed in tight. As soon as it boils it should be skimmed, and afterwards kept boiling very gently. Rolled Beef that equals Hare. Take the inside of a large sirloin, soak it in a glass of port wine and a glass of vinegar mixed, for forty-eight hours; have ready a very fine stuffing, and bind it up tight. Boast it on a hanging spit; and baste it with a41 T7EEF. glass of port wine, tlie same quantity of vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of pounded allspice. Larding it improves the look and flavour ; serve with a rich gravy in the dish; currant-jelly and melted-butter, in tureens. 7b roast 2'ongue and Udder. After cleaning the tongue well, salt it with common salt and saltpetre three days ; then boil it, and likewise a fine young udder with some fat to it, till tolerably tender; then tie the thick part of one to the thin part of the other, and roast the tongue and udder together. Serve them with good gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. A few cloves should be stuck in the udder. This is an excellent dish. Some people like neat’s tongues cured with the root, in which case they look much larger; but otherwise the root must be cut ofl’ close to the gullet, next to the tongue, but without takingaway the fat under the tongue. The root must be soaked in salt and water, and extremely well cleaned, before it is dressed: and the tongue should be laid in salt for a day and a night before pickled. To pickle Tongues for boiling. Cut off the root, but leave a little of the kernel and fat. Sprinkle some salt, and let it drain from the slime till next day: then for each tongue mix a large spoonful of common salt, the same of coarse sugar, and about half as much of saltpetre; rub it w'ell in, and do so every day. In a week add another heaped spoonful of salt. If rub- bed every day, a tongue will be ready in a fortnight; but if only turned in the pickle daily, it will keep four or five weeks without being too salt. When you dry tongues, write the date on a parch- ment and tie it on. Smoke them, or dry them plain, if you like best. When it is to be dressed, boil it till extremely tender; allow five hours; and if done sooner, it is easily kept hot. The longer kept after drying, the higher it will be : if hard, it may require soaking three or four hours. Another way.—Clean as above: for two tongues allowDOMESTIC COOKEHY. 42 an ounce of saltpetre, and an ounce of sal-pmnella ; rub them well. In two days, after well rubbing, cover them with common salt, turn them every day for three weeks, then dry them, and rub over them bran, and smoke them. In ten days they will be fit to eat. Keep in a cool dry place. To slew Tongue. Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common salt for a week, turning it every day. Boil it tender enough to peel: when done, stew it in a moderately strong gravy; season with soy, mushroom ketchup, Cayenne, pound- ed cloves, and salt if necessary. Serve with truffles, morels, and mushrooms. In both this receipt and the next, the roots must be taken otf the tongues before salting, but some fat left. An excellent way of doing Tongues to eat cold. Season with common salt and saltpetre, brow’ii sugar, a little bay-salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, for a fortnight: then take away the pickle, put the tongue into a small pan, and lay some butter on it; cover it with brown crust, and bake slowly till so tender that a straw would go through it. The thin part of tongues, when hung up to dry, grates like hung beef, and almost makes a fine addition to the flavour of omlets. Beef-heart. Wash it carefully ; stuff’as hare ; and serve with rich gi-avy, and currant-jelly sauce. Hash with the same, and port wine. Stewed Ox-cheek, plain. Soak and cleanse a fine cheek the day before it is to be eaten; put it into a stew-pot that will cover close, with three quarts of water : simmer it after it has first boiled up and been well-skimmed. In two hours put plenty of carrots, leeks, two or three turnips, a bimch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and four ounces of allspice. Skim it often ; when the meat is tender, take it out; letBEEF. 43 the soup get cold, take off the cake of fat, and serve the soup separate or with the meat. It should be of a fine brown : which may be done by burnt sugar ; or by frying some onions quite brown with flour, and simmering them with it. This last way improves the flavour of all soups and gravies of the brown kind. If vegetables are not approved in the soup, they may be taken out, and a small roll be toasted, or bread fried and added. Celery is a great addition, and should al- ways be served. Where it is not to be got, the seed of it gives quite as good a flavour, boiled-in and strained ofl‘. To dress an Ox-cheeic another uay. Soak half ahead three hours, ai>d clean it with plenty of water Take the meat off the bones, and put it into a pan with a large onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, some bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. Lay the bones on the top; pour on two or three quarts of water and cover the pan close with brown paper, or a dish that will fit close. Let it stand eight or ten hours in a slow oven ; or simmer it by the side of the fire, or on a hot hearth. When done tender, put tlie meat into a clean pan, and let it get cold. Take the cake of fat off, and warm the head in pieces in the soup. Put what vegetables you choose. Marrotc-bones. Cover the top with floured cloth; boil them and serve with dry toast. T ripe May be served in a tureen, stewed with milk and onion till tender. Melted butter for sauce. Or fry it in small bits dipped in batter. Or stew the thin part, cut into bits, in gravy ; thicken with flour and butter, and add a little ketchup. Or fricassee it with white sauce. Soused Tripe. Boil the tripe, but not quite tender; then put it into Fait and water, which must be changed every day till it isDOIIKSTIC COOKEIU'. 44 all used. When you dress the tripe, d:p it into a bat- ter of flour and eggs, and I'ry it of a good brown. Ox-fcet or Cotc-haels may be dressed in various ways, and are very nutri- tious in all. Boil them ; and serve in a napkin, with melted but- ter, mustard, and a large spoonful of vinegar. Or boil them very tender, and serve them as a brown fricassee: the liquor will do to make jelly sweeter re- lishing, and likewise to give richness to soups crgravies. Or cut them into four parts, dip them into an egg, and then flour and fry them ; and fry onions (if you like them) to serve round. Sauce as above. Or bake them as for mock-turtle. Bubble and Squeak. Boil, chop, and fry it, with a little butter, pep])er and salt, some cabbage, and lay on it slices of underdone beef, lightly fried. VE.\L. To keep Veal. The first part that turns bad of a leg of veal, is where the udder is skewered back. The skewer should be taken out, and both that and the part under it wiped every day, by which means it will k ep good three or four days in hot weather. Take care to cut out the pipe that runs along the chine of a loin of veal, as you do of beef, to hinder it from tainting. Tlie skirt of tlie breast of veal is likewise to be taken otf; and the inside of the breast wiped and scraped, and sprinkle«.l with a little salt. Leg of Veal. Let the fillet be cut large or small as best suits the number of your company. Take out the bone, fill the space with a fine stuffing, and let it be skewered quite round ; and send the large side uppermost. When half- roasted, if not before, put a paper over the fat; and take care to allow a sufficient time, and put it a good dis- tance from the fire, as the meat is very solid : serve with melted butter poured over it.—You may pot some of it.V£Ar,. 45 Knuckle q/' Veal. As few people aie fond of boiled veal, it may be well to leave the knuckle small, and take off' some cutlets or collops before it be dressed; but as the knuckle will keep longer than the fillet, it is best not to cut off'the slices till wanted. Break the bones, to make it take less room; wash it well; and put it into a sauce-pan with three onions, a blade of mace or two, and a few pepper-corns; cover it with water, and simmer till quite ready. In the mean time some macaroni should be boiled with it if approved, or rice, or a little rice-flour, to give it a small degree of thickness ; but don’t puttoo much. Before it is served, add half a pint of milk and eream, and let it come up either with or without the meat. Or fry the knuckle with sliced onion and butter to a good brown ; and btive ready peas, lettuce, onion, and a cucumber or two, stewed in a small quantity of water an hour: their add these lo the veal; and stew it till the meat is tender enough to eat, but not overdone. Throw in pepper, salt, and a bit of shred mint, and serve all together. Shoulder of Veal. Cut off the knuckle, for a stew or gravy. Boast tlie other part with stuffing : you may lard it. Serve with melted butter. The blade-bone, with a good deal of meat left on, eats extremely well with mushroom or oyster-sauce, or mushroom-ketchup in butter. Neck of Veal. Cut off the scrag to boil, and cover it with onion- sauce. It should be boiled in milk and water. Parsley and butter may be served with it, instead of onion- sauce. Or it may be stewed with whole rice, small onions, and pepper-corns, with a very little water. Or boiled and eaten with bacon and greens. The best end may be either roasted, broiled as steaks, or made into pies.DOilESTIC COOKERY, 4G Neck of Veal d-la-braive. Lard the best end with bacon rolled in parsley chop- ped fine, salt, pepper, andnutmeg ; pnt it intoatosser, and cover it with water. Put to it the scrag end, a little lean bacon or ham, an onion, two carrots, two heads of celery, and about aglassof'Madeira wine. Stew it quick two hours,, or till it is tender, but not too much. Strain off the liquor ; mix a little flour and butter in a stew- pan till brown, and lay the veal in this, the upper side to the bottom of the pan. Let it be over the fire till it gets coloured: then lay it into the dish, stir some of the liquor in and boil it up, skim it nicely, and squeeze orange or lemon-juice into it. Breast of Veal. Before roasted, if large, the two ends may be taken off and fried to stew, or the whole may be roasted. Butter should be poured over it. If any be left, cut the pieces into handsome sizes, put them into a stew-pan, and pour some broth over it; or if you have no broth, a little water will do: add a bunch of herbs, a blade or two of mace, some pepper, and an a:nchovy ; stew till the meat is tender, thicken with butter and flour, and add a little ketchup; or the whole bj-east may be stewed, after cutting off the two ends. Serve the sweetbread whole upon it: which may either be stewed, or parboiled, and then covered with crumbs, herbs, pepper, and salt, and browned in a Dutch-oven. If you have a few mushrooms, trufiles, and morels, stew them with it, and serve. Boiled breast of veal, smothered with onion-sauce, is an excellent dish, if not old nor too fat. To roll a Breast of Veal, Bone it, take off the thick skin and gristle, and beat the meat with a rolling-pin. Season it with herbs chopped very fine, mixed with salt, pepper, and mace. Lay some thick slices of fine ham ; or roll into it two or three calves’ tongues of a fine red, boiled first an hour or two and skinned. Bind it up tight in a cloth, and tape it. Set it over the fire to simmer in a small quantityVEAI,, 47 of water till it is quite tender : this will take some hours. Lay it on the dresser, with a board and weight on it till quite cold. Pigs’ or calves’ feet, boiled and taken from the bones, may be put in or round it. The different colours laid in layers look well when cut; and you may put in yolks of eggs boiled, beet-root, grated ham, and chopped parsley, in different parts. Do another u ai/. When it is cold, take off the tape, and pour over it the liquor; which must be boiled up twice a week, or it will not keep. Chump of Veal d-la-daube. Cut off the chump end of the loin ; t;xke out the edge- bone ; stuff the hollow with good forcemeat, tie it up tight, and lay it in a stew-pan with the bone you took out, a little faggot of herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, a few white peppers, and a pint of good veal- broth. Cover the veal with slices of fat bacon, and lay a sheet of white paper over it. Cover the pan close, simmer it two hours, then take out the bacon, and glaze the veal.—Serve it on mushrooms; or with sorrel-sauce, or what else you please. Veal-rolls of either cold Meat or fresh. Cut thin slices ; and spread on them a fine seasoning of a very few crumbs, a little chopped bacon or scraped ham, and a little suet, parsley, and shalot, (or instead of the parsley and shalot, some fresh mushrooms stewed and minced,) pepper, salt, and a small piece of pounded mace. This stuffing may either fdl up the roll like a sausage, or be rolled with the meat. In either case tie it up very tight, and stew it very slowly in a gravy and a glass of sherry. Serve it when tender, after skimming i; nicely. Harrico of Veal. Take the best end of a small neck ; cut the bones short, but leave it whole : then put it into a stew-pan just 1148 DOMESTIC COOKERY. covered with brown gravy ; and when it is nearly done, have ready a pint of boiled peas, six cucumbers pared and sliced, and two cabbage-lettuces cut into quarters, all stewed in a little good broth : put them to the veal, and let them simmer ten minutes. When the veal is in the dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over it, and lay the lettuce with forcemeat-balls round it. A Dunehti of cold Veal or Fowl. Stew a few small mushroom in their own liquor and a bit of butter, a quarter of an hour; mince them, very small, and add them (with their liquor) tominced veal., w ith also a little pepper and salt, some cream, and a bit of butter rubbed in less than half a tea-spoonful of flour. Simmer three or four minutes, and serve on thin sippets of bread. Minced Veal. Cut coki vealas fine as possible, but do not chop it.—- Put to it a very little lemon-peel shred, two grates of nut- meg, some salt, and four or five spoonfuls of either a little weak broth, milk, or water ; simmer these gently with the meat, but take care not to let it boil; and add a bit of butter rubbed in flour. Put sippets of thin toasted bread, cut into a three-corned shape, round the dish. Topol Veal, Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal; or you may do it as follows : Season a large slice of the fillet before it is dressed, with some mace, pepper-corns, and two or three cloves ; lay it close into a potting-pan that will but just hold it, fill it up with water, and bake it three hours; then pound it quite small in a mortar, and add salt to taste : put a little gravy that was baked to it in pounding, if to be eaten soon ; otherwise only a little butter just melted. When done, cover it over with butter. Topol Veal or Chicken wilh Ham. Pound some cold veal or whiteof chicken, seasoned as directed in the last article, and put layers of it with layersVEAL. 49 of ham pounded or rather shred ; press each down and cover with butter. Cutlets Maintenon. Cut slices about three quarters of an inch thick, beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both sides with egg: dip them into a seasoning of bread-crumbs, parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg grated; then put them into papers folded over, and broil them; and have in a boat melted-butter, with a little mushroom-ketchup. Cutlets another way. Prepare as above, and fry them; lay them into a dish, and keep them hot; dredge a little flpur, and put a bit of butter into the pan ; brown it, then pour a little boding water into it, and boil quick : season with pepper, salt, and ketchup, and pour over them. Other ways,.—Prepare as before, and dress the cut- lets in a Dutch-oven ; pour over them melted-butter and mushrooms. Or, pepper, salt, and broil them, especially neck- steaks. They are excellent without herbs. Veal Collops. Cut long thin collops; beat them well; and lay on them a bit of thin bacon of the same size, and spread forcemeat on that, seasoned high, and also a little garlick and Cayenne. Roll them up tight, about the size of two fingers, but not more than two or three inches long j put a very small skewer to fasten each firmly ; rub egg over; fry them of a fine brown, and pour a rich brown gravy over. To dress Collops quick. Cut them as thin as paper with a very sharp knife, and in small bits. Throw the skin, and any odd bits of the veal, into a little water, with a dust of pepper and salt; set them on the fire while you beat the collops; and dip them into a seasoning of herbs, bread, pepper, salt, and a scrape of nutmeg, but first wet them in egg. Then put a bit of butter into a frying-pan, and give thftDOMESTIC COOKERY. 50 collops a very quick fry; for as they are so thin, two minutes w'ill do them on both sides : put them into a hot dish before the fire; then strain and thicken the gravy, give it a boil in the frying-pan, and pour it over the collops. A little ketchup is an improvement. Another may.—Fry them in butter, only seasoned with salt and pepper; then simmer them in gravy, either white or brown, with bits of bacon served with them. If white, add lemon-peel and mace, and some cream. Scallops of cold Veal or Chicken. Mince the meat extremely small; and set it over the fire with a scrape of nutmeg, a little pepper and salt, and a little cream, for a few minutes : then put it into the scallop-shells, and fill them with crumbs of bread, over which put some bits of butter, and brown them before the fire. Either veal or chicken looks and eats well prepared in this way, and lightly covered with crumbs of bread fried ; or these may be put on in little heaps. Fricandeau of Veal» Cut a large piece from the fat side of the leg, about nine inches long and half as thick and broad ; beat it with the rolling-pin ; take off the skin, and trim off the rough edges. Lard the top and sides ; and cover it with fat bacon, and then with white paper. Lay it into the stew-pan w'ith any pieces of imdressed veal or mutton, four onions, a carrot sliced, a faggot of sweet herbs, four blades of mace, four bay-leaves, a pint of good veal or mutton broth, and four or five ounces of lean ham or gammon. Cover the pan close, and let it stew' slowly three hours ; then take up the meat, remove all the fat from the gravy, and boil it quick to a glaze. Keep the fricandeau quite hot, and then glaze it; and serve with the remainder of the glaze in the dish, and furrel-sauce in a sauce-tureen. A cheaper, hut equally good, Fricandeau of Veal. AVith a sharp knife cut the lean part of a large neck from the best end, scooping it from the bones the length51 VEAI,. of your hand, and prepare it the same way as in the last receipt: three or four bones only will be necessary, and they will make the gravy; but if the prime part of the leg is cut off, it spoils the whole. Fricandeau another way.—Take two large round sweetbreats, and prepare them as you would veal; make a rich gravy with truffles, morels, mushrooms, and artichoke-bottoms, and serve it round. Veal Olives. Cut long thin collops, beat them, lay on them thin slices of fat bacon, and over these a layer of forcemeat seasoned high, with some shred shalot and Cayenne. Roll them tight, about the size of 2 fingers, but not more than 2 or 3 inches long; fasten them round with a small skewer, rub egg over them, and fry of a light brown. Serve with brown gravy, in which boil some mush- rooms pickled or fresh. Garnish with balls fried. Veal Cake. Boil six or eight eggs hard ; cut the yolks in two, and lay some of the ])ieces in the bottom of the pot: shake in a little chopped parsley, some slices of veal and ham, add then eggs again; shaking in after each some chopped parsley, with pepper and salt, till the pot is full. Then put in water enough to cover it, and lay on it about an ounce of butter ; tie it over with a double paper, and bake it about an hour. Then press it close together with a spoon, and let it stand till cold. It may be put into a small mould ; and then it will turn out beautifully for a supper or side dish. Veal Sausages. Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, a little salt, pepper, and a few an- chovies. Beat all in a mortar; and when used roll and fiy it, and serve with fried sippets, or on stewed vege- tables, or on white collops. Scotch Collops. Cut veal into thin bits about three inches over, and52 DOMESTIC COOKERY. rather round ; beat with a rolling pin, and grate a Tittle nutmeg over them; dip into the yolk of an egg ; and fry them in a little butter of a fine brown : pour the butter off: and have ready warm to pour upon them half a pint of gravy, a little bit of butter rubbed into a little flour, a yolk of egg, two large spoonfuls of cream, and a bit of salt. Don’t boil the sauce, but stir it till of a fine thickness to serve with the collops. To boil Calf s Head. Clean it very nicely, and soak it in water, that it may look very white; take out the tongue to salt, and the brains to make a little dish. Boil the head extremely tender; then stew it over with crumbs and chopped parsley, and brown them; or, if liked better, leave one side plain. Serve bacon and greens to eat with it. The brains must be boiled; and then mixed with melted butter, scalded sage chopped, pepper, and salt. If any of the head is left, it may be hashed next day, and a few slices of bacon just warmed and put round. Cold calf’s head eats well if grilled. To hash Calf s Head- When half-boiled, cut off the meat in slices, half an inch thick, and two*or three inches long: brown some butter, flour, and sliced onion, and throw in the slices with some good gravy, truffles, and morels ; give it one boil, skim it well, and set it in a moderate heat to sim- mer till very tender. Season with pepper, salt, and Cayenne, at first; and ten minutes before serving, throw in some shred parsley, and a very small bit of taragon and knotted marjoram cut as fine as possible ; just before you serve, add the squeeze of a lemon. Force- meat-balls, and bits of bacon rolled round. •Another may.—'Boil the head almost enough, and take the meat of the best side neatly off the bone with a sharp knife ; lay this into a small dish, wash it over with the yolks of two eggs, and cover it with crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper and salt, and a grate of nut- meg, all mixed together first. Set the dish before theVEAl. 53 fire; and keep turning it now and then, that all parts of the head may be equally brown. In the mean time slice the remainder of the head and the tongue, but first peel the tongue: put a pint of good gVavy into a pan, with an onion, a small bunch of herbs (consisting of parsley, basil, savoury, taragon, knotted marjoram, and a little thyme,) a little salt and Cayenne, a shalot, a glass of sherry, and a little oyster-liquor. Boil this for a few minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which should be dredged with some flour. Add some mushrooms either fresh or pickled, a few truffles and morels, and two spoonfuls of ketchup; then beat up half the brains, and put this to the rest with a bit of butter and flour. Simmer the whole. Beat the other part of the brains with shred lemon- peel, a little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, and an egg. Then fry it in little cakes of a beautiful yellow- brown. Dip some oysters into the yoke of an egg, and do the same ; and also some relishing forcemeat-balls made as for mock turtle. Garnish with these, and small bits of bacon just made hot before the fire. Calf's Head fricasseed. Clean and half-boil half a head ; cut the meat into small bits, and put it into a tosser, with a little gravy made of the bones, some of the water it was boiled in, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a blade of mace. If you have any young cockrels in the house, use the cockscombs; but first boil them tender, and blanch them; or a sweetbread will do as well. Season the gravy with a little pepper, nutmeg, and salt, rub down some flour and butter, and give all a boil together ; then take out the herbs and onion, and add a little cup of cream, but don’t boil it in. Serve with small bits ofbacon rolled round, and balls. To collar Calf’s Head. Scald the skin off a fine head, cleanit nicely, and take out the brains. Boil it tender enough tc remove the bones; then have ready a good quantity of chopped parsley, mace, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, mixedDOMESTIC COOKERY. 51 well; season it high with these ; lay the parsley in a thick layer, then a quantity of thick slices of fine ham, or a beautiful-coloured tongue skinned, and then the yolks of 6 nice yellow eggs stuck here and there about. Koll the liead quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can. Boil it, and then lay a weight on it. A cloth must be put under the tape, as for other collars. Mock Turtle. Bespeak a calf’s head with the skin on, cut it in half, and clean it well; then half boil it, take all the meat off in square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in some veal and beefbroth to add to the richness. Fiy some shalot in butter, and dredge-in flour enough to thicken the gravy : stir this into the browning, and give it one or two boils ; skin it carefully, and then put in the head ; put in also a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the meat is quite tender, xibout ten minutes before you serve, put in some basil, taragon, chives, parsley, Cayenne pepper, and salt, to your taste ; also two spoonfuls of mushroom-ketchup, and one of soy. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. Forcemeat-balls, and small eggs. A cheaper may.—Prepare half a calf’s head, mithout the skin, as above ; when the meat is cut olf, break the bones, and put them into a saucepan with some gravy made of beef and veal bones, and seasoned with fried onions, herbs, mace, and pepper. Have ready two or three ox-palates boiled so tender as to blanch, and cut into small pieces ; to which a cow-heel, likewise cut into pieces, is a great improvement. Brown some butter, flour, and onion, and pour the gravy to it; then add the meats as above, and stew. Half a pint of sherry, an an- chovy, two spoonfuls of walnut-ketchup, the same of mushroom-ketchup, and some chopped herbs as before. Balls, See. Another.—Put into a pan a knuckle of veal, two fine cow-lreels, two onions, a few cloves, peppers, berries of allspice, mace, and sweet herbs : cover them with water, tnen tie a thick paper over the pan, and set i t in an ovexTEAL. 55 for three hours. "When cold, take ofl’ the fat very nicely; cut the meat and feet into bits an inch and a half square, remove the bones and coarse parts ; and then put the rest on to warm, with a large spoonful of walnut and one of mushroom-ketchup, half a pint of sherry or Madeira wine, a little mushroom powder, and the jelly, of the meat. When hot, if it wants any more seasoning,' add some ; and serve with hard eggs, forcemeat-balls, a squeeze of lemon, and a spoonful of soy. This is a very easy way, and the dish is excellent. Jlnolhcr.—Stew a pound and a half of scrag of mutton, with from three pints of water to a quart; then set the broth on, with a calf’s-foot and a cow-heel, cover the stew-pan tight, and simmer till you can cutoff the meat from the bones in proper bits. Set it on again with the broth, a quarter of a pint of Madeira wine or sherry, a large onion, half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne pepper, a bit of lemon-peel, 2 anchovies, some sweet herbs, eighteen oysters cut into pieces, and then chopj)ed fine, a tea- spoonful of salt, a little nutmeg, and the liquor of the oysters ; cover it tight, and simmer three quarters of an hour. Serve with forcemeat-balls, and hard eggs in tlie tureen. An excellent and very cheap mock turtle may be made of two or three cow-heels baked with two pounds and a half of gravy-beef, herbs, See. as above with cow-heels and veal. Calf's Liver. Slice it, season with pepper and salt, and boil nicely: rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve hot and hot. Calf’s Liver roasted. Wash and wipe it; then cut a long hole in it, and stuff it with crumbs of bread, chopped anchovy, herbs, a good deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, pepper, a bit of butter, and an egg : sew the liver up; then lard it, or wrap it in a veal-cawl, and roast it. Serve with a good brown gravy, and currant-jelly. To dress the Liver and Lights. Half-boil an equal quantity of each, then cut them in56 DOMESTIC COOKERT. middling-sized mince, put to it a spoonful or two of the water that boiled it, a bit of butter, flour, salt, and pepper, simmer ten minutes, and serve hot. Calf's Brains d la Maitre d! Hotel. Take off all the fibres and skins which hang about the brains, and soak them in several waters, then boil them in sadt and water, with a piece of butter, and a table-spoonful of vinegar; cut some thin slices ofbread in the shape of scallop shells and fry them in butter, lay these in a dish, the brains divided in two, on them, and pour over a Maitre d’Hotel sauce (which see). A nice supper dish. Sweetbreads. Half boil them, and stew them in a white gravy ; add cream, flour, butter, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper. Or do them in brown sauce seasoned. Or parboil them, and then cover them with crumbs, herbs, and seasoning, and brown them in a Dutch oven. Serve with butter, and mushroom-ketchup or gravy. Srceethreads roasted.—Parboil two large ones; when cold, lard them with bacon, and roast them in a Dutch oven. For sauce, plain butter and mushroom-ketchup. Srveetbread Ragout,—Cut them about the size of a walnut, wash and dry them, andfry them ofafine brown; pour to them a good gravy seasoned with salt, pepper, allspice, and either mushrooms, or mushroom-ketchup : strain, and thicken with butter and a little flour. You may add truffles, morels, and mushrooms. Kidney. Chop veal-kidney, and some of the fat; likewise a little leek or onion, pepper, and salt; roll it up with an egg into balls, and fry them. Calves heart, stuff and roast as a beef’s heart, or sliced, make it into a pudding, as directed for steak or kidney pudding. PORK, &c. Bacon-hogs, and porkers, are differently cut up.67 PORK. Hogs are kept to a large size; the chine (or back- bone) is cut down on each side, the whole length, and is a prime part either boiled or roasted. The sides of the hog are made into bacon, and the in- side is cut out with very little meat to the bone. On each side there is a large spare-rib ; which is usually divided into two, one sweet-bone and a blade-bone. The bacon is the whole outside: and contains a fore leg, and a ham ; which last is the hind-leg, but if left w’ith the bacon is called a gammon. There are also griskins. Hog's lard is the inner fat of the bacon-hog. Pickle pork is made of the flesh of the hog, as well as bacon. Porkers are not so old as hogs; their flesh is whiter and less rich, but it is not so tender. It is divided into four quarters. The fore-quarter has the spring or fore-leg, the fore-loin or neck, the spare-rib and gris- kin. The hind has the leg and the loin. The feet of pork make various good dishes, and should be cut off before the legs are cured. Observe the same of the ears. The bacon-hog is sometimes scalded to take oflT the hair, and sometimes singed. The porker is always scalded. To roast a Leg of Pork. Choose a small leg of fine young pork : cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp knife; and fill the space with sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper and salt. "When half-done, score the skin in slices, but don’t cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple-sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. To boil a Leg of Pork. Salt it eight or ten days : when it is to be dressed, weigh it; let it lie half an hour in cold water to make it white ; allow a quaj ter of an hour for every pound, and half an hour over, from the time it boils up : skim it as soon as it boils, and frequently after. Allow water enough. Save some of it to make peas-soup. SomeDOMESTIC COOKERY. 58 boil it in a very nice cloth, floured ; which gives a very delicate look. It should be small and of a fine grain. Serve peas-pudding and turnips with it. Loin and Neck of Pork. Roast them. Cut the skin of the loin across, at dis- tances of half an inch, with a sharp pen-knife. Shoulders and Breasts of Pork. Put them into pickle, or salt the shoulder as a leg; when very nice, they may be roasted. Rolled Neck of Pork. Bone it; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three berries of allspice, over the inside; then roll the meat as tight as you can, and roast it slowly, and at a good distance at first. Spring or Forehand of Pork. Cut out the bone ; sprinkle salt, pepper, and sage dried, over the inside ; but first warm a little butter to baste it, and then flour it: roll the pork tight, and tie it ; then roast by a hanging jack. About two hours will do it. Spare-rib Should be basted with a very little butter and a little flour, and then sprinkled with dried sage crumbled. Apple-sauce, and potatoes, for roasted pork. Pork Griskin Is usually very hard; the best way to prevent this is, to put it into as much cold water as will cover it, and let it boil up ; then instantly take it off, and put it into a Dutch oven; a very few minutes will do it. Remem- ber to rub butter over it, and then flour it, before you put it to the fire. Blade-bone of Pork Is taken from the bacon-hog; the less meat left on it in moderation, the better. It is to be broiled ; and when jnst done, pepper and salt it. Put to it a piece of but- ter, and a tea-spoonful of mustard: and serve it co- vered, quickly. This is a Somersetshire dish.PORK. 59 To drcis Pork as Lamb. Kill a young pig of four or five mouths old; cut up the fore-quarter for roasting as you do lamb, and truss the shank close. The other parts will make delicate pickled pork ; or steaks, pies, kc. Pork Steaks. Cut them from a loin or neck, and of middling tl ick- ness ; pepper and broil them, turning them olten ; when nearly done, put on salt, rub a bit of butter over, and serve the moment they are taken otf the fire, a lew at a time. 7b Pickle Pork. The quantities proportioned to the middlings of a pretty large hog, the hams and shoulders being cut off. Mix, and pound fine, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of coarse sugar, an ounce of sal-prunel, and a little common salt: sprinkle the pork with salt, and drain it twenty-four hours : then rub with the above ; pack the pieces tight in a small deep tub, filling up the spaces with common salt. Place large pebbles on the })ork, to prevent it from swimming in the pickle which the salt will produce. If kept from air, it will continue very fine for two years. Sausages. Chop fat and lean of pork together; season it with sage, pepper, and salt, and you may add two or three berries of allspice : half fill hogs’ guts that have been soaked and made extremely clean : or the meat may be kept in a very small pan, closely covered ; and so rolled and dusted with a very little flour before it is fried. Serve on stewed red cabbage; or mash potatoes put in a form, brown with salamander, and garnish with the above ; they must be pricked with a fork before they are dressed, or they will burst. An excellent sat.sage to eat cold. Season fat and lean pork with some salt, saltpetre, black pepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub into the meat: the sixth day cut it small; and mix with60 DOMESTIC COOKERY. It some shred shalot or garlick, as fine as possible. Have ready an ox-gut that has been scoured, salted, and soaked well, and fill it with the above stuffing ; tie up the ends, and hang it to smoke as you would hams, but first wrap it in a fold or two of old muslin. It must be high-dried. Some eat it without boiling, but others like it boiled first. The skin should be tied in different places, so as to make each link about eight or nine inches long. Spadhury's Oxford Sausages. Chop a pound and a half of pork, and the same of veal, cleared of skin and sinnews; and three quarters of a pound of beef-suet; mince and mix them; steep the crumb of a penny-loaf in water, and mix it with the meat, with also a little dried sage, pepper and salt. To scald a Suckhig Pjg. The moment the pig is killed, put it into cold water for a few minutes; then rub it over with a little resin beaten extremely small, and put it into a pail of scald- ing water half a minute : take it out, lay it on a table, and pull of the hair as quickly as possible ; if any part does not come off, put it in again. When quite clean, wash it well with warm water, and then in two or three cold w'aters, that no flavour of the resin may remain. Take off all the feet at the first joint j make a slit down the belly,.and take out the entrails; put the liver, heart, and lights to the feet. Wash the pig well in cold water, dry it thoroughly, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep it from the air. To roast a Sucking Pig.. If you can get it when just killed, this is of great ad- vantage. Let it be scalded, which the dealers usually do; then put some sage, crumbs of bread, salt, and pepper, into the belly, and sew it up. Observe to skewer the legs back or the under part will not crisp. Lay it to a brisk fire till thoroughly dry ; then have ready some butter in a dry cloth, and rub the pig with it in every part. Dredge as much flour over as will61 POUK. possibly lie, and do not touch it again till ready to serve; then scrape oft’ the flour very carefully with a blunt knife, rub it well with the buttered cloth, and take olT the head while at the fire; take out the brains, and mix tliem with the gravy that comes from the pig. Then take it up ; and without withdrawing the spit, cut it down the back and belly, lay it into the dish, and chop tlie sage and bread quickly as fine as you can, and mix tliem with a large quantity of fine melted butter that has very little flour. Put the sauce into the dish after the pig has been split down the back, and garnished with the ears and the two jaws ; take oft" the upper part of the head down to the snout. In Devonshire it is served whole, if very small; the head only being cut olT, to garnish as above. Petlitnes. Boil them, the liver, and the heart, in a small quaatity of water, very gently ; then cut the meat fine, and sim- mer it with a little of the water and the feet split, till the feet are quite tender; thicken with a bit of butter, a little Hour, a spoonful of cream, and a little salt and pepper; give it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of bread, and put the feet on the mince. To make excellent Meat of a Hog's Head. Split the head, take out the brains, cut off the ears, and sprinkle it with common salt for a day; then drain it: salt it well with cormnon salt and saltpetre three days, tlien lay the salt and head into a small quantity of water for two days. Wash it, and boil till all the bones will come out; remove them, and chop the head as quick as possible; but first skin the tongue, and take the skin carefully off the head, to put under and over. Season with pepper, salt and a little mace or allspice-berries Put the skin into a small pan, press the cut head in, and put the other skin over; press it down. When cold, it will turn out, and make a kind of brawn. If too fat, you may put a few biti of lean pork to be prepared the sameI DOMESTIC COOKERY. way. Add salt and vinegar, and boil these with some of the liquor for a pickle to keep it. 1 To roast Porker's Head. Choose a fine young head, clean it well, and put bread and sage as for pig; sew it up tight, and on a string or 1 hanging jack roast it as a pig, and serve with the same sauce. To prepare Pig's Cheek for boiling. I Cut off the snout, and clean the head; divide it, and take out the eyes and the brains; sprinkle the head with salt, and let it drain twenty-four hours. Salt it with ' common salt and saltpetre : let it lie eight or ten days if to be dressed without stewing with peas, but less if to . be dressed with peas ; and it must be washed first, and then simmered till all is tender. To collar Pig's Head. Scour the head and ears nicely; take off the hair aud snout, and take out the eyes and the brain ; lay it into w'ater one night; then drain, salt it extremely well with common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie five days. Boil it enough to take out the bones; then lay it on a dresser, turning the thick end of one side of the head towards the thin end of the other to make the roll of equal size; sprinkle it well with salt and white pepper, and roll it with the ears ; and if you approve, put the pig’s feet round the \ otitside when boned, or the thin parts of two cow-heels. i Put it in a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil it till quite tender; then put a good weight upon it, and don’t take off the covering till cold. If you choose it to be more like braw'n, salt it longer, ; and let the proportion of saltpetre be gi-eater, and put | in also some pieces of lean pork ; and then cover it with cow-heel, to look like the horn. This may be kept either in or out of pickle of salt and water boiled with vinegar; and is a very convenient thing to have in the house. If likely to spoil, slice and fry it either with or with- out batter. 'PORK. 63 To dry Hog's Cheeks. Cut out the snout, remove the brains, and split the head, taking off the upper bone, to make the chawl a good shape : rub it well with salt; next day take away the brine, and salt it again the following day: cover the head with half an ounce of salt-petre, two ounces of bay- salt, a little common salt, and four ounces of coarse sugar. Let the head be often turned; after ten days smoke it for a week like bacon. To force Hog’s Ears. Parboil two pair of ears, or take some that have been soused; make a forcemeat of an anchovy, some sage, pars- ley, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped, bread-crumbs, pepp®^^ and only a little salt. Mix all these with the yolks of two eggs ; raise the skin of the upper side of the ears, and stuff them with the above. Fry the ears in fresh butter, of a fine colour ; then pour away the fat, and drain them : make ready half a pint of rich gravy, with a glass of fine sherry, three tea-spoonfuls of made mustard, a little bit of flour and butter, a small onion whole, and a little pepper or Cayenne. Put this with the ears into a stew-pan, and cover it close ; stew it gently for half an hour, shaking the pan often. When done enough, take out the onion, place the ears care- fully in a disc, and pour the sauce over them. If a larger dish is wanted, the meat from two feet may be I added to the above. Different ways of dressing Pig’s Feet and Ears. Clean carefully, and soak some hours, and boil them I tender ; then take them out; boil some vinegar and a I little salt with some of the water, and when cold put it j over them. When they are to be dressed, dry them, i cut the feet in two, and slice the ears; fry, and serve ' with butter, mustard, and vinegar. They may be i either done in batter, or only floured. Piffs Feet and Ears fricasseed. Put no vinegar into the pickle, if to be dressed with I cream. Cut the feet and ears into neat bits, and boil IDOMESTIC COOKERY. 64 them in a little milk ; then pour that from them, and simmer in a little veal broth, with a bit of onion, mace, and lemon-peel. Before you serve, add a little cream, flour, butter, and salt. Jelly of Jig’s Feet and Ears. Clean and prepare as in the last article, then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be taken out; throw in half a handful of chopped sage, the same of parsley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and mace, in fine powder; simmer till the herbs are scald- ed, then pour the whole into a melon-form. Pig’s Harslet. Wash and dry some liver, sweetbreads, and fat and lean bits of pork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin make it tender ; season with pepper, salt, sage, and a little onion shred fine ; when mixed, put all into a cawl, and fasten it up tight with a needle and thread. Roast it on a hanging jack, or by a string. Or serve in slices with parsley for a fry. Serve with a sauce of port-wine and water, and mustard, just boiled up and put into the dish. Mock Brawn. Boil a pair of neat’s feet very tender ; take the meat off, and have ready the belly-piece of pork salted with common salt and saltpetre fora week. Boil this almost enough ; take out any bones, and roll the feet and the pork together. Then roll it very tight with a strong cloth and coarse tape. Boil it till very tender, then hang it up in the cloth till cold; after which keep it in a sousing-liquor, as is directed in the next article. Souse for Braicn, and for Pig’s Feet and Ears. Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat-bran, a sprig of bay, and a sprig of rosemary, in two gallons of water, with four ounces of salt in it, for half an hour. Strain t, and let it get cold. To make Black Puddings. The blood must be stirred with salt till cold. Pul a ]uart of it, or rather more, to a quart of whole grits, torouK. 65 soak one night; and soak the crumb of a quartern loaf in rather more than two quarts of new milk made hot. Tn the mean time prepare the guts by washing, turning, ?nd scraping with salt and water, and changingthe water several times. Chop fine a little winter-savoury and thyme, agood quantity of penny-royal, pepper, and salt, a few cloves, some allspice, ginger, and nutmeg; mix these with three pounds of beef-suet, and six eggs well beaten and strained ; and then beat the bread, grits, &c. all up with the seasoning: when well mixed, have ready some hogs’ fat cut into large bits; and as you fill the skins, put it in at proper distances. Tie in links, only half filled; and boil in a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, or they will burst. When boiled, lay them between clean cloths till cold, and hang them up in the kitchen. When to be used, scald them a few minutes in water, wipe and put them into a Dutch oven. If there are not skins enough, put the stuffiing into basons, and boil it covered with floured cloths ; and slice and fry it when iised. Another way.—Soak all night a quart ofbniised grits in as much boiling-hot milk as will swell them and leave half a pint of liquid. Chop a good quantity of penny- royal, some savoury and thyme ; salt, pepper, and all- spice, finely powdered. Mix the above with a quart of the blood, prepared as before directed ; then half fill the skins, after they have been cleaned thoroughly, and put as much of the leaf (that is, the inward fat) of the pig as will make it pretty rich. Boil as before directed. A small quantity of leeks finely shred and well mixed, is a great improvement. Another way.—Boil a quart of half-grits in as much milk as will swell them to the utmost; then drain them and add a cjuart of blood, a pint of rich cream, a pound of suet, some mace, nutmeg, allspice, and four cloves, all in fine powder; two pounds of the hog’s leaf cut into dice, two leeks, a handful of parsley, ten leaves of sage, a large handful of penny-royal, and a sprig of thyme and knotted majoram, all minced fine ; eight eggs w'ellDOMESTIC COOKERY. 6tf beaten, half a pound of bread-cnimbs that have been scalded with a pint of milk, pepper, and salt. Half fill the skins ; which must first be cleaned with the greatest care, turned several times, and soaked in several waters, and last in rose-water. Tie the skins in links, boil and prick them with a clean fork to prevent their bursting. Cover them with a clean cloth till cold. White Hog's Puddmg. When the skins have been soaked and cleaned as be- fore directed, rinse and soak them all night in rose-water, and put into them the following filling: Mix half a pound of blanched almonds cut into seven or eight bits, with a pound of grated bread, two pounds of marrow or suet, a pound of currants, some beaten cinnamon, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, a quart of cream, the yolks of six and whites of tw'o eggs, a little orange flower water, a little fine Lisbon sugar, and some lemon-peel and citron sliced, and half fill the skins. To know whether sweet enough, warm a little in a panikin. In boiling, much care must be taken to prevent the puddings from bursting. Prick them with a small fork as they rise, and boil them in milk and water. Lay them in a table-cloth till cold. Hog's Lard Should be carefully melted in a jar put into a kettle of water, and boi ed, run it into bladders that have been extremely well cleaned. The smaller they are the bet- ter the lard keeps; as after the air reaches it, it becomes rank. Put in a sprig of rosemary when melting. This being a most useful article for frying fish, it should be prepared with care. Mixed with butter, it makes fine crust. To cure Hams. Hang them a day or two ; then sprinkle them with a little salt, and drain them another day ; pound an ounce and a half of saltpetre, the same quantity of bay-salt, half an ounce of sal-prunel, and a pound of the coarsest sugar. Mix these w'ell; and rub them into each ham every day for four days, and turn it. If a small one.67 rORK, turn it every day for three weeks; if a large one, a week longer; but don’t rub after four days. Before you dry it, drain and cover with bran. Smoke it ten days. Another way.—Choose the leg of a hog that is fat and well-fed; hang it as above; if large, put to it a pound of bay-salt, four ounces of salt-petre, a pound of the coarsest sugar, and a handful of common salt, all in fine powder, and rub it thoroughly. Lay the rind down- wards, and cover the fleshy part with the salts. Baste it as often as you can with the pickle; the more the bet- ter. Keep it four weeks, turning it every day. Drain it, and throw bran over it; then hang it in a chimney where wood is burnt, and turn it sometimes for ten days. jlnother way.—Hang the ham, and sprinkle it with salt as above; then rub it every day with the following, in fine powder: half a pound of common salt, the same quantity of bay-salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of black pepper, mixed with a pound and a half of treacle. Turn it twice a day in the pickle, for three weeks. Lay it into a pail of water for one night, wipe it quite dry, and smoke it two or three weeks. hnother way, that gives a high flavour.—When the weather will peraiit, hang the ham three days ; mix an ounce of saltpetre, with a quarter of a pound of bay-salt, the same quantity of common salt, and also of coarse sugar, and a quart of strong beer; boil them together, and pour them immediately upon the ham; turn it twice a day in the pickle for three weeks. An ounce of black pepper, and the same quantity of allspice, in fine pow- der, added to the above, will give still more flavour. Cover it withbran whenwiped : and smoke it from three to four weeks, as you approve: the latter will make it harder and give it more of the flavour of Westphalia. Sew hams in hessings (that is, coarse wrappers), if to be smoked where there is a strong fire. A method of givmg a still higher flavour.—Sprinkle the ham with salt, after it has hung two or three days; let it drain; make a pickle of a quart of strong beer, half a pound of treacle, an ounce of coriander seeds, twoDOMESTIC COOKERY. 68 ounces of juniper-berries, an ounce of pepper, the sama quantity of allspice, an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of sal-prunel, a handful of common salt, and a head of shalot, all pounded or cut fine. Boil these all together a few minutes, and pour them over the ham: this quan- tity is for one of ten pounds. Rub and turn it every day, for a fortnight; then sew it up in a thin linen bag, and smoke it three weeks. Take care to drain it from the pickle, and rub it in bran, before drying. To make a Pickle that will keep for years, for Hams, Tongues, or Beef, if boiled and skirmed between each parcel of them. To two gallons of spring-water put two pounds of coarse sugar, two pounds of bay and two pounds and a half of common salt, and half a pound of saltpetre, in a deep earthen glazed pan that will hold four gallons, and with a cover that will fit close. Keep the beef or hams as long as they will bear, before you put them into the pickle; and sprinkle them with coarse sugar in a pan, from which they must drain. Rub the hams, &c. well with the pickle, and pack them in close; putting as much as the pan will hold, so that the pickle may cover them. The pickle is not to be boiled at first. A small ham may lie fourteen days, a large one three weeks ; a tongue twelve days, and beef in proportion to its size. They will eat well out of the pickle without drying. When they are to be dried, let each piece be drained over the pan; and when it wdll drop no longer, take a clean sponge and dry it thoroughly. Six or eight hours will smoke them, and there should be only a little saw- dust and wet straw burnt to do this ; but if put into a baker's chimney, sew them in coarse cloth, and hang them a week. To dress Hams. If long hung, put the ham into water a night; and let it lie either in a hole dug in the earth, or on damp stones sprinkled with water, two or three days, to mellow; covering it with a heavy tub, to keep vennin from it.MUTTON. 69 Wash well, and put it into a boiler with plenty of water; let it simmer four, five, or six hours, according to the size. When done enough, if before the time of serving, cover it with a clean cloth doubled, and keep the dish hot over boiling water. Take oft* the skin, and strew raspings over the ham. Garnish with carrot. Preserve the skin as whole as possible, to keep over the ham when cold, which will prevent its drying. Excellent Bacon. Divide the hog, and take the chine out: it is common to remove the spare-ribs, but the bacon will be preserved better from being rusty if they are left in. Salt the ba- con six days, then drain it from that first pickle: mix as much salt as you judge proper with eight ounces of bay- salt, three ounces of salt-petre, and a pound of coarse sugar, to each hog, but first cut oft* the hams. Rub the salts well in, and turn it every day for a month. Drain, and smoke it a few days; or dry without, by hanging in the kitchen, not near the fire. The manner of curing Wiltshire Bacon. Sprinkle each flitch with salt, and let the blood drain off for twenty-four hours : then mix a pound and a half of coarse sugar, the same quantity of bay-salt, not quite so much as half a pound of saltpetre, and a pound of common salt; and rub this well on the bacon, turning it every day for a month: then hang it to dry, and afterwards smoke it ten days. This quantity of salts is sufticient for the whole hog. MUTTON. Observations on keeping and dressing Mutton. Take away the pipe that runs along the bone of the inside of a chine of mutton ; and if to be kept a great time, rub the part close round the tail with salt, after first cutting out the kernel. The kernel in the fat on the thick part of the leg should be taken out by the butcher, for it taints first there. The chine and rib-bones should be wiped every day; and the bloody part of the neck be cut off, to pre-DOMESTIC COOKERY. 70 serve it. The brisket changes first in the breast; anc if it is to be kept, it is best to rub it with a little salt, should the weather be hot. Every kernel should be taken out of all sorts of meat as soon as brought in; then wipe dry. For roasting, it should hang as long as it will keep, the hind-quarter especially, but not so long as to taint; for whatever fashion may authorize, putrid juices ought not to be taken into the stomach. Mutton for boiling will not look of a good colour if it has hung long. Great care should be taken to preserve by paper the fat of what is roasted. Leg of Mutton. If roasted, serve with onion or currant-jelly sauce ; if boiled, with caper-sauce and vegetables. Neck of Mutton Is particularly useful, as so many dishes may be made of it; but it is not advantageous for the family. The bones should be cut short, which the butchers will not do unless particularly desired. The best end of the neck may be boiled, and served with turnips; or roasted, or dressed in steaks, in pies, or harrico. The scrags maybe stewed in broth; or with a small quantity of water, some small onions, a few pepper- corns and a little rice, and served together. When a neck is to be boiled to look particularly nice, saw down the chine-bone, strip the ribs half-way down, and chop off the ends of the bones about four inches. The skin should not be taken off till boiled, and then the fat will look the whiter. When there is more fat to a neck or loin of mutton, than it is agreeable to eat with the lean, it makes an amcommonly good suet-pudding, or crust for a meat-pie if cut very fine. Shoulder of Mutton roasted. Serve with onion sauce. The blade-bone may be broiled.MUTTON. 71 To dress Haunch of Mutton. Keep it as long as it can be preserved sweet by the different modes: let it be washed with warm milk and water, or vinegar, if necessary ; but when to be dressed, observe to wash it well, lest the outside should have a bad flavour from keeping. Put a paste of coarse flour on strong paper, and fold the haunch in: set it at a great distance from the fire, and allow' proportionable time for the paste; don’t take it off till about thirty-five or forty minutes before serving, and then baste it conti- nually. Bring the haunch nearer to the fire before you take off the paste, and froth it up as you w'ould venison. A gravy must be made of a pound and a half of loin of old mutton, simmered in a pint of w ater to half, and no seasoningbut salt: brown it with alittle burnt sugar, and send it up in the dish; but there should be a good deal of gravy in the meat; for though long at the fire, the distance and covering will prevent its roasting out. Serve with currant-jelly sauce. To roast a Saddle of Mutton. Let it be well kept first. Raise the skin, and then skewer it on again ; take it off a quarter of an hour be- fore serving, sprinkle it with some salt, baste it, and dredge it well w'ith flour. The rump should be split, and skewered back on each side. The joint may be large or small according to the company : it is the most ele- gant if the latter. Being broad it requires a high and strong fire. Fillet of Mutton braised. Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some paper, and put over it, and then a paste as for veni- son; roast it two hours. Don’t let it be the least brown. Have ready some French beans boiled and drained on a sieve; and while the mutton is being glazed, give them one heat-up in gravy, and lay them on the dish with the meat over them. Harrico. Take off some of the fat, and cut the middle or best end of the neck into rather thin steaks ; flour and dryDOMESTIC COOKERY. 72 them in their own fat of a fine light brown, but not enough for eating. Then put them into a dish while you fry the carrots, turnips, and onions ; the carrots and tur- nips in dice, the onions sliced : but they must only be warmed, not browned, or you need not fry them. Then lay the steaksat the bottom of a stew-pan, the vegetables over them, and pour as much boiling water as will just cover them; give one boil, skim well, and then set the pan on the side of the fire to simmer gently till tender. In three or four hours skim them; and add pepper, salt, and a spoonful of ketchup. To hash Mutton. Cut thin slices of dressed mutton, fat and lean; flour them; have ready a little onion boiled in two or three spoonfuls of water; add to it a little gravy and the meat seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a covered dish. Instead of onion, a clove, a spoonful of currant-jelly, and half a glass of port wine, will give an agreeable flavour of venison, if the meat be fine. Pickled cucumber, or walnut, cut small, warm in it for change. T0 boil Shoulder of Mutton with Oysters. Hang it some days, then salt it well for two days ; lx)ne it, and sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace irounded : lay some oysters over it, and roll the meat up tight and tie it. Stew it in a small quantity of water, with an onion and a few pepper-coms, till quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy, and some oysters stewed in it; thicken this with flour and butter, and pour over the mutton when the tape is taken oflf. The stew- pan sho'ild be kept close covered. Breast of Mutton. Cut off the superfluous fat, and roast and serve the meat with stewed cucumbers ; or to eat cold, covered with chopped parsley. Or half boil and then grill it be- fore the fire; in which case cover it with crumbs and herbs, and serve with caper-sauce. Or if boned, take off a good deal of the fat, aud cover it with bread, herbs,MUTTON. 7-3 and seasoning; then roll and boil ; and serve with chopped walnuts, or capers and butter. Loin of Mutton Roasted; if cut lengthways as a saddle, some think it cuts better. Or for steaks, pies, or broth. To roll Loin of Mutton. Hang the mutton till tender; bone it; and lay a sea- soning of pepper, allspice, mace, nutmeg, and a few cloves, all in fine powder, over it. Next day prepare a stuffing as for hare ; beat the meat, and cover it with tlie stuffing; roll it up tight, and tie it. Half-bake it in a slow oven; let it grow cold; take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stew-pan ; flour the meat, and put it in likewise; stew it till almost ready; and add a glass of port wine, some ketchup, an anchovy, and a little lemon-pickle, half an hour before serving; serve it in the gravy, and with jelly-sauce. A few fresh mush- rooms are a great improvement; but if to eat like hare do not use these, nor the lemon-pickle. Mutton Ham. Choose a fine-grained leg of wether-mutton, of twelve or fourteen pounds weight; let it be cut ham-shape, and hang two days. Then put into a stew-pan half a pound of bay-salt, the same of common salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and half a pound of coarse sugar, all in pow- der ; mix and make it quite hot; then mb it well into the ham. Let it be turned in the liquor every day ; at the end of four days put two ounces more of common salt; in twelve days^ake it out, dry it, and hang it up in wood-smoke a week. It is to be used in slices with stewed cabbage, mashed potatoes or eggs. Mutton Collops. Take a loin of mutton that has been well hung; and cut from the part next the leg, some collops very thin. Take out the sinews. Season the collops with salt, pep- per, and mace; and strew over them shred parsley, thyme, and two or three shalots : fry them in butter till naif-done; add half a pint of gravy, a little juice of le-74 DOMESTIC COOKERY. mon, and a piece of butter rubbed in flour; and simme ■ the whole very gently five minutes. They should be served immediately, or they will be hard. Mutton Cutlets in the Portuguese way. Cut the chops ; and half-fry them with sliced shalot or onion, chopped parsley, and two bay-leaves; season with pepper and salt; then lay a forcemeat on a piece of white paper, put the chop on it, and twist the paper up, leaving a hole for the end of the bones to go through- Broil on a gentle fire. Serve with sauce Robart; or, as the seasoning makes the cutlets high, a little gravy. Mutton Steaks Should be cut from a loin or steak that has hung ; if a neck the hones should not be long. They should be broiled on a clear fire, seasoned when half-done, and often turned ; take them up into a very hot dish, rub a bit of butter on each, and serve hot and hot the mo- ment they are done. Steaks of Mutton, or Lamb, and Cucumbers. Quarter cucumbers, and lay them into a deep dish, sprinkle them with salt and pour vinegar over them. Fry the chops of a fine hrown, and put them into a stew- pan ; drain the cucumbers, and put over the steaks; add some sliced onions, pepper, and salt; pour hot water or w'eak broth on them ; stew and skim well. Mutton Steaks Maintenon. Plalf-fry, stew them while hot with herbs, crumbs, and seasoning ; put them in paper immediately, and finish on the gridiron. Be careful the paper does not catch : rub a bit of butter on it first to prevent that. Mutton Sausages. Take a poimd of the rawest part of a leg of mutton tliat has been either roasted or boiled; chop it extremely small, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, and nut- meg; add to it six ounces of beef-suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all chopped very small; a quarter of a pound of grated bread, some of the anchovy-liquDr, and the yolks and whites of twoMUTTON. eggs well beaten. Put it all, when well mixed, into a little pot; and use it by rolling it into balls or sausage- shape and frying. If approved, a little shalot may be added, or garlick, which is a great improvement. To dress Mutton Rumps and Kidiiey. Stew six nimps in some good mutton-gravy half ai? hour; then take them up, and let them stand to cool. Clear the gravy from the fat; and put into it four ounces of boiled rice, and onion stuck with cloves, and a blade of mace ; boil them till the rice is thick. Wash the rumps with yolks of eggs well beaten; and strew over them crumbs of cread, a little pepper and salt, chopped parsley and thyme, and grated lemon-peel. Fry in butter of a fine brown. While the rumps are stewing, lard the kidneys, and put them to roast in a Dutch oven. When the rumps are fried, the grease must be drained before they are put on the dish, and the pan being cleared likewise from the fat, warm the rice in it. Lay the latter on the dish; the rumps put round on the rice, the narrow ends towards the middle, and the kidneys between. Garnish with hard eggs cut in half, the white being left on; or with different coloured pickles. An excellent Hatch Patch. Stew peas, lettuce, and onions, in a very little water, with a beef or ham-bone. While these are doing, fry some mutton or lamb steaks seasoned, of a nice brown : three quarters of an hour before dinner put the steaks into a stew-pan, and the vegetables over them; stew them, and serve all together in a tureen. jlnother.—Knuckle of veal, and scrag of mutton, stewed with vegetables as above ; to both add a bit of butter rolled in flour. Mutton kebobbed. Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, and that on the outside also if too fat, and remove the skin. Joint it at every one : mix a small nutmeg grated with a little salt and pepper, cj:urabs,and herbs; dip the steaks intoDOMESTIC COOKERY. 7a \he yolks of three eggs, and sprinkle the above mixture all over them. Then place the steaks together as they were before they were cut asunder, tie them and fasten them on a small spit. Boast them at a quick fire ; set a dish under, and baste them with a good piece of butter and the liquor that comes fromthemeat; but throw some more of the above seasoning over. When done enough, take it up, and lay it in a dish; have half a pint of good gravy ready besides that in the dish; and put into it two spoonfuls of ketchup, and rub down a tea-spoonful of flour with it; give this a boil, and pour it over the mutton, but first skim off the fat well. Mind to keep the meat hot till the gravy is quite ready. China Chilo. Mince a pint-bason of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and some of the fat; put two onions, a lettuce, a pint of green peas, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, four spoonfuls of water, and two or three ounces of clarified butter, into a stew-pan closely cover- ed ; simmer two hours, and serve in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If cayenne is approved, add a little. LAMB. Leg of Lamb Should be boiled in a cloth to look as white as possible. The loin fried in steaks and served roimd, garnished with dried or fried parsley; spinach to eat with it; or dressed separately, or roasted. Fore Quarter of Lamb. Roast it either whole, or in separate parts. If left to be cold, chopped parsley should be sprinkled over it. The neck and breast together is called a scoven. Breast of Lamb and Cucumbers. Cut off the chiue-bone from the breast, and set it on to stew with a pint of gravy. When the bones would draw out, put it on the gridiron to grill; and then lay it in a dish on cucumbers nicely stewed. Shoulder of Lamb, forced, with Sorrel-sauce. Bone a shoulder of ^amb, and fill it up with force-LAMB. 77 meat: braise it two hours over a slow stove. Take it up, glaze it; or it may be glazed only, and not braized. The method for both, see page 84. Serve with sorrel-sauce under the lamb. Lamb Steaks. Fry them of a beautiful brown : when served, throw over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, and crimped parsley ; the receipt for doing which of a fine colour will be given under the head of Vegetahles. Mutton or Lamb steaks, seasoned and broiled in but- tered papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, are a genteel dish, and eat well. Sauce for them, called Sauce Robart, will be found in the list of Sauces. House-Lamb Steaks white. Stew them in milk and water till very tender, with a bit of lemon-peel, a little salt, some pepper, and mace. Have ready some veal-gravy, and put the steaks into it; mix some mushroom powder, a cup of cream, and the least bit of flour; shake the steaks in this liquor, stir it, and let it get quite hot. Just before you take it up, put in a few white mushrooms. This is a good substi- tute when poultry is very dear. House-Lamb Steaks brown. Season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg,grated lemon- peel, and chopped parsley; but dip them first into egg: fry them quick. Thicken some good gravy with a bit of flour and butter; and add to it a spoonful of port wine, and some oysters : boil it up, and then put in the steaks warm: let them heatup, and serve. You may add palates, balls, or eggs, if you like. Lamb Cutlets with Spinach. Cut the steaks from the loin, and fry them: the spinach is to be stewed and put into the dish first, and then the cutlets round it. Lamb's Head and Hinge. This partis best from a house-lamb; but any, if soaked in cold water, will be white. Boil the head separately till very tender. Have ready the liver and lights three78 DOMESTIC COOKERY. parts boiled and cut small; stew them m a little of the water in which they were boiled, season and thicken with flour and butter, and serve the mince round the head. Lamb's Fry. Serve it fried of a beatuiful colour, and witn a good deal of dried or fried parsley over it. Lamb's Sweetbreads. Blanch them, and put them a little while into cold water. Then put them into a stew-pan with a ladleful of broth, some pepper and salt, a small bunch of small anions, and a blade pf mace; stir in a bit of butter and flour, and stew half an hour. Have ready two or three eggs well beaten in cream, with a little minced parsley and a few grates of nutmeg. Put in some boiled asparagus-tops to the other things. Don’t let it boil after the cream is in: but make it hot, and stir it well all the while. Take great care it does not curdle. Young French beans or peas may be added, first boiled of a beautiful colour. Fricasseed Lamhstones. Skin and w ash, then dry and flour them; fry of a beau- tiful brown, in hog’s lard. Lay them on a sieve before the fire till you have made the following sauce : Thicken almost half a pint of veal-gravy with a bit of flour and butter, and then add to it a slice of lemon, a large spoon- ful ofmushroomketchup, atea-spoonful oflemon-pickle; a grate of nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg beaten well ic two large spoonfuls of thick cream. Put this over the fire, and stir it well till it is hot, and looks white ; but don’t let it boil, or it will curdle. Then put in the fry, and shake it about near the fire for a minute or two. Serve in a very hot dish and cover. Fricassee of Lambstones and Sweetbreads, another way. Have ready some lambstones blanched, parboiled, and sliced. Flour two or three sweetbreads , if very thick, cut them in two. Fry all together, with a few large oysters, of a fine yellow brown. Pour the butter off; and add a pint of good gravy, some asparagus-tops about anPOULTRY. 79 inoli long, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, two shalots slued fine, and a glass of white wine. Simmer ten mi- nutes ; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and by degrees mix the whole. Turn the gravy back into the pan, and stir it till of a fine thickness without boiling. Garnish with lemon. A venj nice dish. Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut it into steaks, and chop each bone so short as to make the steaks almost round. Egg, and strew with crumbs, herbs, and season- ing ; fry them of the finest brown; mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream, and put them into the middle of the dish raised high. Then place the edge of one steak on another with the small bone upw'ard, all round the potatoes. Pies of the different meats are directed under the general head of savoury pies. PART III. P O U L T B Y, GAME, &c, 7b choose Poultry, Game, t^-c. .A Ttcrkey-cock.—If young, it has a smooth black leg, with a short spur. The eyes full and bright, if fresh, and the feet supple and moist. If stale, the eyes will be sunk, and the feet dry. Hen-turkey is known by the same rules; but if old, her legs wdll be red and tough. Fowls.—If a cock is young, his spurs will be short; but take care to see they have not been cut or pared, which is a trick often practised. If fresh, the vent will be close and dark. Pullets are best just before they begin to lay, and yet are full of egg ; if old hens, their combs and legs will be rough ; if young, they will be smooth. A good capon has a thick belly and h'trge rump ; there is a parti cular fat at his breast, and the comb is very pale. Black legged fowdsare most moist, iffor roasting. K80 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Geese.—The bill and feet of a young one will be yel- low, and there will be but few hairs upon them ; if old, they will be red: if fresh, the feet will be pliable; if stale, dry and stilf. Geese are called green till three or four months old. Green geese should be scalded : a stubble-goose should be picked dry. Ducks.—Choose them by the same rules, of having supple feet, and by their being hard and thick on the breast and belly. The feet of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to dusky yellow; a wild one has the feet red- dish, and smaller than the tame. They should be picked dry. Ducklings must be scalded. Pigeons should be very fresh ; when they look flabby about the vent, and this partis discoloured, they are stale. The feet shoifld be supple ; if old, the I'eet are harsh. The tame ones are larger than the wild, and are thought best by some persons; they shouldbe fat and tender; but many are deceived in their size, because a full crop is as large as the whole body of a small pigeon. The wood pigeon islarge, and the flesh dark coloured; if properly kept, and not over-roasted, the flavour is- equal to teal. Serve with a good gravy. Plovers—Choose those that feel hard at the vent, which shows they are fat. In other respects, choose them by the same marks as other fowl. When stale, tlie feet are dry. They will keep sw'eet a long time. There are three sorts; the grey, green, and bastard plover, or lap- wing. Hare or rabbit.—If the claws are blunt and rugged, the ears dry and tough, and the haunch thick, it is old; but if the claws are smooth and sharp, the ears easily tear, and the cleft in the lip is not much spread, it is young. If fresh and newly killed, the body will be stiff, and in hares the flesh pale. But they keep a good while by pro- per care ; and are best when rather beginning to turn, if the inside is preserved from being musty. To know- a real leveret, you should look for a knob or small bone ue.ir the foot on its fore leg ; if there is none it is a hare. Partridges.—They are in season in autumn. Ifyoung^fPlate VIII I Turkey for Roast'mg. Turkey or Fowl for Boiling. Chicken or Fowl for Roasting.81 POULTRY. the bill is of a dark colour, and the legs yellowish : if fresh, the vent will be firm ; but this part will 2ook greenish if stale. Pheasants.—The cock-bird is accounted best, exceut when the hen is with egg. If young, he has short blunt or round spurs; but if old, they are long and sharp. Directions for dressing Poultry a?td Game. All poultry should be very carefully picked, every plug removed, and the hair nicely singed with white paper. The cook must be careful in drawing poultry of all sorts, not to break the gall-bag, for no washing will take off the bitter where it has touched. In dressing wild fowl, be careful to keep a vlear brisk fire. Let them be done of a fine yellow brown, but leave the gravy in: the fine flavour is lost if done too much. Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in heating through than others. All sorts should be con- tinually basted ; that they may be served with a froth, and appear of a fine colour. A large fowl will take three quarters of an hour ; a middling one half an hour; and a very small one, or a diicken, twenty minutes. The fire must be very quick and clear before any fowls are put down. A capon will take from half an hour to thirty-five minutes ; a goose an hour; wild ducks a quarter of an hour: pheasants twenty minutes ; a small turkey stuffed, an hour and a quarter; turkey-poults, twenty minutes; grouse a quarter of an hour; quails, ten minutes; and partridges, from twenty to twenty-five minutes. A hare will take near an hour, and the hind part requires most heat. Pigs and geese require a brisk fire, and quick turn- ing. Hares and rabbits must be well attended to : and the extremities brought to the quick part of the fire, to be done equally with the backs. POULTRY. To boil Turkey. Make a stuffing of bread,, herbs,,salt,, pepper, nulmeg„DOMESTIC COOKERY. 8-2 leraon-peel, a few oysters or an anchovy, a bit of butter, some suet, and an egg: put this into the crop, fasten up the skin, and boil tlie turkey in a floured cloth to make it very white. Have ready oyster-sauce made with but- ter, a little cream, and a spoonful of soy, if approved; and pour it over the bird ; or liver and lemon-sauce. Hen birds are best for boiling, and should be young. To roast Turkey. The sinews of the legs should be drawn, whichever way it is dressed. The head should be twisted under the wing; and in drawing it, take care not to tear the liver, nor let the gall touch it. Put a stulhugof sausage-meat; or if sausages are to be served in the dish, a bread-stuiring. As this makes a large addition to the size of the bird, observe that the heat of the fire is constantly to that part; for the breast is often not done enough. A little-strip of paper should be put on the bone, to hinder it from scorching while the other parts roast. Baste well and froth it up. Serve with gravy in the dish, and plenty of bread- sauce in a sauce tureen. Add a few crumbs, and a beaten egg to the stuffing of sausage-meat. Pulled Turkey. Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cutting; then warm it in a spoonful or two of white gravy, and a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt and a little flour and butter ; don’t boil it. The leg should be seasoned, scored, and broiled, and put into the dish with the above round it. Cold chicken does as well. To boil Fowl, For boiling, choose those that are not black-legged. Pick them nicely, singe, w'ash, and truss them. Flour them, and put them into boiling Avater.—See time of dressing, page 81. Serve with parsley and butter ; oyster, lemon, liver, or <^elery sauce. 'f for dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon, is usually served with them ; as likewise greens.n > i I iPlate IX Goose. Woodcock or Snipe. Pigeon. Pheasant or Partridge, Hare or Rabbit trussed for Roasting. Hare or Rabbit for Roasting or Boiling.83 POULTRY. To boil Fowl with Rice. Stew the fowl very slowly in some clear miitton-hroth well skimmed; and seasoned with onion, mace, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before it is ready, put in a quarter of a pint ofrice well washed and soaked. Simmer till tender; then strain it from the broth, and put the rice on a sieve before the fire. Keep the fowl hot, lay it in the middle of the dish, and the rice round it w ithout the broth. The broth will be very nice to eat as such, but the less liquor the fowl is done with the better. Gravy, or parsley and butter, for sauce. Fowls roasted. Serve with egs-sauce, bread-sauce, or garnished with sausages and scalded parsley. A large barn-door fow l well hung, should be stuffed in the crop with sausage-meat, and served with gravy in the dish, and with .bread-sauce. The head should be turned under the wing, as a turkey. Fowls broiled. Split them down the back; pepper, salt, and broil. Serve with mushroom-sauce. Another way.—Cut a large fowl into four quarters, put them on a bird-spit, and tie that on another spit; and naif-roast; or half-roast the whole fowl, and finish either on the gridiron, which w'ill make it less dry than if wholly broiled. The fowl that is not cut before roasted, must be split down the back after. Davenport Fow^s. Hang young fowls a night: take the livers, hearts, and tenclerest parts of the gizzards, shred very small, with half a handful of young clary, an anchovy to each fowl, an onion, and the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, w ith pepper, salt, and mace, to your taste. Stuff the fowls w'ith this, and sew up the vents and necks quite close, that the water may not get in. Boil them in salt and w'ater till almost done: then drain them, and put them into a stew-pan with butter enough to brown84 DOMESTIC COOKERY. them. Serve them with fine melted bntter, and a spoonl'ul of ketchup, of either sort, in the dish. A nice way to dress a B'owl for a small dish. Bone, singe, and wash, a young fowl: make a force meat of four ounces of veal, two ounces of scraped lean o- liam, two ounces of fat bacon, two hard yolks of eggs, a few sweet herbs chopped, two ounces of beef suet, a tea- spoonful of lemon-peel minced quite fine, an anchovy, salt, pepper, and a very little Cayenne. Beat all in a mortar, uith a tea-cupful of crumbs, and the yolks and whites of three eggs. Stuff the inside of the fowl, and draw the legs and wing inwards; tie the neck and rump close. Stew’ the fowl in a white gravy : w’hen it is done through and tender, add a large cupful of cream, and a bit of butter and flour; give it one boil, and serve-, the last thing, add the squeeze of a lemon. To force Fowl, ^-c. Is to stuff any part with forcemeat, and it is ^ ut usually between the skin and flesh. To braise, Is to put meat intoa stew-pan covered, with fat bacon : then add six or eight onions, a faggot of herbs, carrots if to be brow'll, celery, any bones, or trimmings of meat or fowls, and some stock (which you will find among Soups and Gravies). The bacon must be covered with a paper, and the lid of the pan must be put down close. Set it on a slow stove ; and according to what it is, it will require tw’o or three hours. The meat is then to be taken out; and the gravy very nicely skimmed, and set on to boil vet'y quick till it is thick. The meat is to be kept hot; and if larded, put into the oven for a few' minutes : and then put the jelly over it, which is called glazing, and is used for ham, tongue, and many made dishes. White w’ine is added to some glazing. The glaze should be of a beautiful clear yellow bi’owm, and it is best to put it on with a nice brush. Fricassee of Chickens. Boil rather more than half, in a small quantity ofPOULTUY. 85 water: let them cool; then cut up; and put to simmer ill a little i»ravy made ot“the liquor they were boiled in, and a bit ot‘ veal or mutton, onion, mace, and lemon- peel, some white pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. vVhen (piite tender, keep them hot while you thicken the sauce in the following manner: Strain it olf, and put it back into the sauce-pan with a little salt, a scrape of nut- meg, and a bit of flour and butter: give it one boil; and uhen you are going to serve, beat up tlie yolk of an egg, add half a pint of cream, and stir tliem over the fire, but don’t let it boil. It will be quite as good without the egg, Tlie gravy may be made (without any other meat) of the necks, feet, small wing-bones, gizzards, and livers ; which are called the trimmings of the fowls. To pull Chickens. Take off the skin ; and pull the flesh off the bone of a cold fowl, in as large pieces as you can: dredge it with flour, and fry it of a nice brown in butter. Drain the butter from it; and then simmer the flesh in a good gravy well-seasoned, and thickened with a little flour and butter. Add the juice of half a lemon, Another way.—Cutoff the legs, and the whole back, of a dressed chicken ; if underdone the better. Pull all the white part into little flakes free from skin; toss itup with a little cream thickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour, halfa blade of mace in powder, white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon. Cutoff the neck-end of the chicken : and broil the back and sidesmen in one piece, and the two legs seasoned. Put the hash in the mid- dle, with the back on it; and the two legs at the end. Chicken Currie. Cut up the chickens raw, slice onions, and fry both in butter with great care, of a fine light brown ; or if you use chickens that have been dressed, fry only the onions. Lay the joints, cut into two or three pieces each, into a stew-pan; with a veal or mutton gravy, and a clove or two of garlick. Simmer till the chicken is quite tender. Half an hour before you serve it, rub smooth a spoonfulDOMESTIC COOKERY. 86 or two of cunie-powder, a spoonful of flour, and an ounce of butter; and add this, with four large spoon- fuls of cream, to the stew. Salt to your taste. IVhen serving^ squeeze in a little lemon. Slices of under-done veal, or rabbit, turkey, &,c. make excellent currie. A dish of rice boiled dry must be served. For direc- tions to do this, see the article Rice 'vci the Itidex. Anothery more easily made.—Cut up a chicken or young rabbit; if chicken, take oft’ the skin. Roll each piece in a mixture of a large spoonful of flour, and half an ounce of currie-powder. Slice two or three onions; and fry them in butter, of a light brown; then add the meat, and fry all together till the meat begins to brown. Put it all into a stew-pan, and pour boiling water enough just to cover it. Simmerverygently two or three hours. If too thick, put more water halfan hour before serving. If the meat has been dressed before, alittle broth will be better than water; but the currie is richer when made of fresh meat. To braise Chickens. Bone them, and fill them with forcemeat. Lay the bones, and any other poultry trimmings, into a stew-pan, and the chickens on them. Put to them a few onions, a faggot of herbs, three blades ofmace, a pint of stock, and a glassor twoof sherry. Cover the cliickens with slicesof bacon, and then white paper; cover the whole close, and put them on a slow stove for two hours. Then take them up, strain the braise, and skim oft’ the lat carefully ; set it on to l>oil very quick to a glaze, and do the chickens over with it with a brush. Serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. Before glazing, put the chicken into an oven for a few minutes, to give a litile colour. Ducks roasted. Serve with a fine gravy: and stuft’ one with sage and onion, a desert-spoonful of crumbs, a bit of butter, and pepper and salt; let the other be unseasoned.POULTRY. 87 To boil Ducks. Choose a fine fat duck; salt it two days, then boil It slowly in a cloth. Serve it with onion-sauce, but melt the butter with milk instead of water. To stew Ducks. Half-roast a duck; put it into a stew-pan w'ith a pint of beef-gravy, a few leaves of sage and mint cut small, pep- per and salt, and a small bit of onion shred as fine as possi- ble. Simmer a quarter of an hour, and skim clean; then add near a quart of green peas. Cover close, and simmer near half an hour longer. Put in a piece of butter and a little flour, and give it one boil; then serve in one dish. To hash Ducks. Cut a cold duck into joints ; and warm it, witho boiling in gravy, and a glass of port wine. To roast Goose. After it is picked, the plugs of the feathers pulled out, and the hairs carefully singed, let it be well washed and dried, and a seasoning put in of onion, sage, and pep- per and salt. Fasten it tight at the neck and rump, and then roast. Put it first at a distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer. A slip of paper should be skewered on the breast-bone. Baste it very well. When the breast is rising, take off the paper; and be careful to serve it before the breast falls, or it will be spoiled by coming flatted to table. Let a good gravy be sent in the dish.—Gravy and apple-sauce: goose- berry sauce lor a green goose. To stew Giblets. Do them as will be directed for giblet-pie (under the head Pies]; season them with salt and pepper, and a very small piece of mace. Before serving, give them one boil with a cup of cream, and a piece of butter rubbed in a tea-spoonful of flour. Pifreons May be dressed in so many ways, that they are very useful. The good flavour of them depends very much on their being cropped and drawn as soon as killed. No other bird requires so much washing.88 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Pigeons left from dinner the day before may be stewed or made into a pie ; in either case, care must be taken not to overdo them, which will make them stringy. They need only be heated up in gravy made ready, and force- meat-balls may be fried and added, instead of putting a stuffing into them. If for a pie, let beef-steaks be stewed in a little water, and put cold under them, and cover each pigeon with a piece of fat bacon, to keep them moist.—Season as usual, and put eggs. To stew Pigeons. Take care that they are quite fresh, and carefully cropped, drawn, and washed ; then soak them half an hour. In the mean time cut a hard white cabbage in slices (as if for pickling) into w’ater; drain it, and then boil it in milk and water: drain it again, and lay some of it at the bottom of a stew-pan. Put the pigeons upon it, but first season them w'ell with jiepper and salt, and cover them w'ith the remainder of the cabbage. Add a little broth, and stew gently till the pigeons are tender: then put among them two or three spoonfuls of ci’eam, and a piece of butter and flour for thickening. After a boil or two, serve tlie birds in the middle, and the cabbage placed round them. Anoihi r rvay,—Stew the birds in a good brown gravy, either stuffed or not; and seasoned high with spice and mushrooms fresh, and a little ketchup. To broil Pigeons. After cleaning, split the backs, pepper and salt them, and broil them very nicely; pour over them either stewed or pickled mushrooms in melted butter, and serve as hot as possible. Poast Pigeons Should be stuffed with parsley, either cut or whole; and seasoned within. Serve w'ith parsley and butter. Peas or asparagus should be dressed to eat with them. To pickle Pigeo7is. Hone them; turn the inside out, and lard it. Season with a little allspice and salt, in fine powder ; then turn them again, and tie the neck and rump with thread. Put89 rOULlUY". them into boiling water: let them boil a minute or two to plump : take them out, and diy them well; then put tliera boiling hot into the pickle, which must be made of equal quantities of white wine and white wine vine^ gar, with white pej)per and allspice, sliced ginger and nutmeg, and two or three bay-leaves. When it boils up, put the pigeons in. If they are small, a quarter' of an hour will do them : but they will take twenty minutes if large. Then take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. When the pickle is cold, take the fat off from it, and put them in again. Keep them in a stone tied down with a bladder to keep out the air. Instead of larding, put into some a stuffing made of hard yolks of eggs and marrow in equal quantities, with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and mace. Pigeons in Jelly. Save some of the liquor in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled : or boil a calfs or neat’s foot; put the broth into a pan with a blade of mace, a bunch of sw'eet herbs, some white pepper, lemon-peel, a slice of lean bacon, and the pigeons. Bake them, and let them stand to be cold. Season them as you like, before baking. When done, take them out of the liquor, cover them close to preserve the colour, and clear the jelly by boil- ing it with the whites of two eggs; then strain it through a thick cloth dipped in boiling water, and put into a sieve. The fat must be perfectly removed, before it be cleared. Put the jelly over and round them rough. The same, a beautiful dish.—Pick two very nice pigeons : and make them look as well as possible by singeing, washing, and cleaning the heads well. Leave the heads and the feet on, but the nails must be clipped close to the claws. Roast them of a very nice brown; and when done, put a little sprig of myrtle into the bill of each. Have ready a savoury jelly, as before, and w'ith it half-fill a bowl of such a size as shall be proper to turn down on the dish you mean it to be served in. When the jelly and the birds are cold, see that no gravy hang to the birds, and then lay them upside down in theDOMESTIC COOKERY. 90 ielly. Before the rest of it begin to set, pour it over the oirds, so as to be three inches above the feet. This should be done full twenty-four hours before serving. This dish has a very handsome appearance in the middle range of a second course; or when served with the jelly roughed large, it makes a side or corner thing, its size being then less. The head should be kept up as if alive, by tying the neck with some thread, and the legs bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. To pot Pigeons. Let them be quite fresh, clean them carefully, and season them with salt and pepper : lay them close in a small deep pan; for the smaller the surface, and the closer they are packed, the less butter will be wanted. Cover them with butter, then with very thick paper tied down, and bake them. When cold, put them dry into pots that will hold 2 or 3 in each; and pour butter over them, using that which Avas baked as part. Observe that the butter should be pretty thick over them, if they are to be kept. If pigeons were boned, and then put in an oval form into the pot, they would lie closer, and re- quire less butter. They may be stuffed with a fine force- meat made with veal, bacon, kc. and then they will eat excellently. If a high flavour ic approved of, add mace, allspice, and a little Cayenne, before baking. Larks, and other small Birds. Draw, and spit them on a bird-spit; tie this on another spit, and roast them. Baste gently with butter, and strew bread-crumbs upon them till half-done; brown and serve with fried crumbs round. GAME, ETC. T0 keep Game, (^-c. Game ought not to be thrown away even when it has been kept a very long time; for when it seems to be spoiled it may often be made fit for eating, by nicely cleaning it, and washing with vinegar and water. If there is danger of birds not keeping, draw, crop, and pick them; then wash in two or three waters, and rub themf I GAME, ETC. with salt. Have ready alarge sauce-pan ofboijingwater, and plunge them into it one hy one; drawing them up and down by the legs, tliat the water may pass through them. Let them stay live or si.v minutes in ; then hang them up in a cold place. When drained, pepper and salt the insides well. Before roasting, wash them well. The most delicate birds, even grouse, may be pre- served thus. Those that live by suction cannot be done this way, as they are never drawn ; and per- haps the heat might make them worse, as the water could not pass through them ; but they bear being high. Lumps of charcoal put about birds and meat will preserve them Irom taint, and restore what is spoiling. Pheasants and Partridges. Boast them as turkey : and seiwe with a fine gravy (into which put a very small bit of garlick), and bread- sauce. When cold, they may be made into excellent patties, but their flavour should not be overpowered by lemon. For the manner of trussing a pheasant or partridge, see plate TX. To i^ot Partridge. Clean them nicely; and season with mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt, in fine powder. Rub every part well; then lay <he breasts downwards in a pan, and pack the birds as close as you possibly can. Put a good deal of butter on them ; then cover the pan with a coarse flour-paste and a paj)er over, tie it close, and bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover them with butter. A very cheap way of potting Birds. Prepare them as directed in the last receipt; and when baked and grown cold, cut them into proper pieces for helping, pack them close into a lafge potting- pot, and (if possible) leave no spaces to receive the butter. Cover them with butter, and one^third part less will be wanted than when the birds are done ^liole.—The butter that has covered potted things will serve for basting, or for paste for meat pies.92 DOMESTIC COOKERY. To clarify Butter for potted Things. Put it into a sauce-boat, and set that over the fire in a stew-pan that has a little water in. When melted, take care not to pour the milky parts over the potted things : they will sink to the bottom. T'o pot Moot Game. Pick, singe, and wash the birds nicely; then dry them ; and season, inside and out, pretty high, with pepper, mace, nutmeg, allspice, and salt. Pack them in as small a pot as will hold them, cover them with butter, and bake in a very slow oven. When cold, take off the butter, dry them from the gravy, and put one bird into eacli pot, which shoidd just fit. Add as much more butter as will cover them, but take care that it does not oil. The best way to melt it is by warming it in a bason set in a bowl of hot water. Grouse. Roast them like fowls, but the head is to be twisted under the wing. They must not be overdone. Serve with a rich gravy in the dish, and bread-sauce. The sauce for wild fowl, as will be described hereafter under the head of Sauces, may be used instead of common gravy. To roast Wild Fowl. The flavour is best preserved without stuffing. Put pepper, salt, and a piece of butter, into each. Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame; they should be served of a fine colour, and well frothed up. A rich brown gravy should be sent intbedish; and when the bi’east is cut into slices, before taking off the bone, a scjueeze of lemon, with pepper and salt, is a great improvement to the flavour. To take off the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes have, putan onion, salt, and hot water,,into the dripping., ]ian, and baste them for the first ten minutes with this then take away the pan, and baste constantly with butter. Wild Ducks, Teale, Widgeon, Dun-birds, <$‘c- Skould be taken up with the gravy in. Baste them withGAME, ETC. 93 blitter, and sprinkle a little salt before they are taken up ; put a good gravy under them, and serve with shalot-sauce in a boat. I-Voodcocks, Snipes, and Quails, Keep good several days. Roast them without drawing, and serve on toast. Butter only should be eaten with them, as gravy takes oft' from the fine flavour. The thigh and back are esteemed the most. For the manner of trussing a woodcock or snipe, see plaie IX. Ruffs and Reeves Are skewered as quails ; put bai’s of bacon over them, and roast them about ten minutes. Serve with a good gravy in the dish. To dress Plovers. % Roast the green ones in the same way as woodcocks and quails (see above), without drawing ; and serveon a toast. Grey plovers may be either roasted or stewed with gravy herbs, and spice. Plovers' Eggs, are a nice and fashionable dish. Roil them ten minutes, and serve either hot or cold on a napkin. To roast Ortolans. Pick and singe, but do not draw them. Tie on a bird- spit, and roast them. Some persons like bacon in slices tied between them, but the taste of it spoils the flavour of the ortolan. Cover them w ith crumbs of bread. Guinea and Pea Fowl Eat much like pheasants. Dress them in the same-way {see page 91.) Hares, If properly taken care of, will keep a great time : and even when the cook fancies tliempast eating, may be in the highest perfection; whichif eaten when fresh-killed tiiey are not. As they are usually paunched in the field, the cook cannot prevent this; but the hare keeps longer, and eats much better, if not opened for four or five days, or according to the weather. If paunched, as soon as a hare comes in, it should beDOMESTIC COOKERY. wiped quite dry, the heart and liver taken out, and the liver scalded to keep for the stuffing. Repeat this wiping every day; mix pepper and ginger, and rub on the in- side ; and put a large piece of charcoal into it. Apply the spice early to prevent that musty taste which long keeping in the damp occasions, and which also affects the stuffing. An old hare should be kept as long as possible ; if to be roasted. It must also be well soaked. To roast Hare. After it is skinned, let it be extremely well w’ashed, and then soaked an hour or two in water: and if old, lard it; which will make it tender, as also will letting it lie in vinegar. If however it is put into vinegar, it should be exceedingly well washed in water afterwards. Put a large relishing stuffing into the belly, and then sew it up. Baste it well with milk till half-done, and afterwards with butter. If the blood has settled in the neck, soaking the part in warm water, and putting it to the fire warm, will remove it; especially if you also nick the skin here and there with a small knife, to let it out. The hare should be kept at a distance from the fire at first. Serve with a fine froth, rich gravy, melted butter, and currant-jelly sauce; the gravy in the dish. For stuffing use the liver, an anchovy, some fat bacon, a little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little onion, crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it all. 'I'he ears must be nicely cleaned and singed. They are reckoned a dainty. For the manner of trussing a hare, see/j/rt^e IX. T0 jug an old Hare. After cleaning and skinning, cut it up ; and season it with pepper, salt, allspice, pounded mace, and a little nutmeg. Put it into a jar with an onion, a clove or two, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of coarse beef, and the carcase-bones over all. Tie the jar down with a bladder, and leather or strong paper; and put it into a saueeqian of water up to the neck, but no higher. Keeji the water boiling five hours. When it is to be served, boil th.eGAME, 5cC. 95 gravy up Avith a piece of butter and flour ; and if the meat gets cold, wann it in this, but not to boil. Broiled and hashed Hare. The flavour of broiled hare is particularly fine: the legff or wings must be seasoned first; rub w ith cold butter, and serve very hot.—The other parts, warmed with gravy and a little stuffing, may be served separately. To pot Hare, For which an old one does well, as likewise for soup and pie.—Alter seasoning it, bake it with butter. When cohi take the meat from the bones, and beat it in a mortar. If not high enough add salt, mace, pepper, and a piece of the finest fresh butter melted in a spoonful or two of the gravy that came from the hare. When well mixed put it into small pots, and cover with butter. The legs and back should be baked at the bottom of the jar, to keep them moist, and the bones be put over them. Rabbits May be eaten various ways, as follows: Roasted with stuffing and gravy, like hare : or with out stuffing; w'ith sauce of the liver and parsley cho})ped in melted butter, pepper, and salt; or larded. For the manner of trussing a rabbit for either roasting or boil- ing, see plate IX. Boiled, and smothered w’ith onion-sauce; the butter to be melted with milk instead of water. Fried in joints, with dried or fried parsley. The same liver-sauce, this way also. Fricasseed, as before directed (in page 84) for chickens. In a pie, as chicken, with forcemeat, &c. In this way they are excellent when young. Potted. To make a Rabbit taste much like Hare. Choose one that is young, but full-grown : hang it in the skin 3 or 4 days ; then skin it, and lay it, without washing, in a seasoning of black pei)per and allspice in a very fine powder, a glass of port wine, and the same rjuantity-bf vinegar. Baste it occasionally for 40 hours, LDOMESTIC COOKERY. Vf) then Stull’ it and roast it as a hai’e, and with the same sauce. Do not wash off the liquor that it was soaked in. 7'o pot Rabbits. Cut up two or three young but lull-grown ones, and take the leg-bones off at the thigh; pack them as closely as possible in a small pan, after seasoning them with pepper, mace, Cayenne, salt, and allspice, all in very fine powder. Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the heads and the carcases, but take off the meat about the neck. Put a good deal of butter, and bake the whole gently. Keep it two days in the pan, then shift it into small pots, adding butter. The livers also should be added, as they eat well. To blanch Rabbit, Fowl, ^c. Is to set it on the fire in a small quantity of cold watet and let it boil, as soon as it boils it is to be taken out and put into cold water for a few minutes. PART IV. SOUPS AND GRAVIES. General Directions respecting Soups and Gravies, When there is any fear of gravy-meat being spoilt Delore it be wanted, season \vell and fry it lightly, which will preserve it two days longer ; but the gravy is best when the juices are fresh. When soups or gravies are to be put by let them be changed every day into fresh scalded pans. Whatever has vegetables boiled in it is apt to turn sour sooner than the juices of meat. Never keep any gravy, &c. in metal. W hen fat remains on any soup a tea-cupful of Hour and water mixed quite smootli, and boiled in, will take it off. It richness or greater consistency be wanted, a good lump of butter mi.xed with flour, and boiled in the soup, will give either of these qualities. Long boiling is necessary to give the full flavour of the ingredients, therefore time should be allowed for soups and gravies ; and they are best if made the day before they are wanted.SOUPS. 97 Soups and gravies are far better whm the meat is put at the bottom of the pan and stewed, and tlie herbs, roots, &c. with butter, than when water is put to the meat at first; and the gravy that is drawn from the meat should be almost dried up before the water is ])ut to it. Do not use the sediment of gravies. See. that have stood to be cold. When onions are strong boil a turnip with them, if for sauce ; this will make them mild. If soups or gravies are too weak do not cover them in boiling, that the watery particles may evaporate. A clear jelly of Coiv-hcels is very useful to keep in the house, being a great improvement to soups and gravies. Truffles and morels thicken soups and sauces,and give them a fine flavour. Wash half an ounce of each carefiUly, then simmer them a few minutes in water, and add them with the liquor, to boil in the sauce, Sec. till tender. SOUPS, Sec. Scotch Mutton Broth. Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour ; cut off the scrag, and put it into a stew-pot with two quarts of water. As soon as it boils skim it well, and then sim- mer it an hour and a half; tlien take the best end of the mutton, cut it into pieces (two bones in each), take some of the fat off, and put as many as you think proper: skim the moment the fresh meat boils up, and every quarter of an hour afterwards. Have ready four or five carrots, the same, number of turnips, and three onions, all cut. but not small, and put them in soon enough to get quite tender: add four large spoonfuls of Scotch barley, first wetted with cold water. The meat should slew three hours. Salt to taste, and serve all together. Tw^enty minutes before serving put in some chopped parsley. It is an e.x.cellent winter dish. Veal Broth. Stew a small knuckle in about three quarts of water, two ounces of rice, a little salt, and a blade of mace, till the liquor is half wasted awavrOMESTIC COOKERY. 96 Colouring for Soups and Gravies. Put four ounces of lump sugar, a gill of water, and hal an ounce of the finest butter into a small tosser, and set i over a gentle fire. Stir it with a wooden spoon, till of a bright brown. Then add halfa pint of water; boil, skim, and when cold bottle and cork it close. Add to soup or gravy as much of this as will give a proper colour. Julienne Soup, Take some carrots and turnips, and turn them riband-like ; a few heads of celeiy, some leeks and onions, and cut them in lozenges, boil them till they are cooked, then put them into clear gravy soup. Brown thickening.—.A*. B. You may in summer tinj'“ add green peas, asparagus tops, French beans, spme ettuce or sorrel. y1 clear broicn Slock for Gravy-soup or Gravy, Put a knuckle of veal, a pound of lean beef, and a pound of the lean of a gammon of bacon, all sliced, into a stew-pan with two or three scraped carrots, two onions, two turnips, two heads of celery sliced, and two quarts of water. Stew the meat quite tender, but do not let it brown. AVhen thus prepared it will serve either for soup, or brown or white gravy; if for brown gravy put some of the above colouring, and boil a few minutes. An excellent Soup. Take a scrag or knuckle of veal, slices of undressed gammon of bacon, onions, mace, and a small quantity of water; simmer till very strong, and lower it with a good beef-broth made the day before, and stewed till the meat is done to rags. Add cream, vermicelli, and almonds, as will be directed in the next receipt, and a roll. An excellent while Soup. Take a scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal after cutting off as much meat as will make collops,twoor three shank- bones of mutton nicely cleaned, and a quarter of a pound of very fine undrest lean gammon of bacon, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, two or three onions, three blades of mace, and a desert-spoonful ofSOUPS, 90 white pepper; boil all in three quarts of water, till the I'wt'atfalls quite to pieces. Next day takeoff the fit, clear the jelly from the sediment, and put it into a sauce- pan of the nicest tin. If macaroni is used, it should be added soon enough to get perfectly tender, after soaking in cold water. Vermicelli may be added after the thick- en ing, as it requires less time to do. Have ready the thickening, which is to be made as follows :—Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and beat them to a paste in a marble mortar, with a spoonful of water to jirevent their oiling; mince a large slice of drest veal or chicken, and beat with it a piece of stale white bread ; add all this to a pint of thick cream, a bit of fresh lemon-peel, and a blade of mace, in the finest powder. Boil it a few minutes ; add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp it through a coarse sieve : this thickening is then fit for putting to the rest, which should boil for half an hour afterwards. A plainer IVkite Soup. Tw'O or three pints of soup may be made of a small Knuckle of veal, with seasoning as directed in thelastar- *^icle; and both served together, with the addition of a quarter of a pint of good milk. Two spoonfuls of cream, and a little ground rice, will give it a proper thickness. Gihlel Soup. Scald and clean three or four sets of goose or duck gib- lets ; set them to stew, with a pound or two of gravy-beef, scrag of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal; an ox- tail, or some shanks of mutton; with three onions, a largo bunch of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a large spoonful of salt. Put five pints of water, and sim- mer till the gizzards (which must be each in four pieces) are quite tender: skim nicely, and add a quarter of a pint of cream, tw'o tea-spoonfuls of mushroom-powder, and an ounce of butter mixed with a desert-spoonful ot flour. Let it boil a few minutes, and serve with the gib- lets. It may be seasoned, instead of cream, with two glasses of sherry or Madeira, a large spoonful of ketchup, and some Cayenne. When m the tureen, add salt.100 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Partridge Soup. Take two old partridges; skin them ; ai d cut them into pieces, with three or lour slices ofham, a stick of celerv, and three large onions cut into slices. Fry them all in but- ter till brown, but take care not to burn them. Then put them into a stew-pan, with five pints of boiling water, a few pepper-corns, a shank or two of mutton, and alittle salt. Stew it gently two hours ; then sti'ain it through a sieve, and put it again into a stew pan, w'ith some stewed celery and fried bread; when it is near boiling, skim it, pour it into a tureen and serve it up hot. Macaroni Soup. Boil a pound of the best macaroni in a quart of good stock till quite tender; then take out half, and put it into another stew-pot. To the remainder add some more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the macaroni through a fine sieve. Then add together that, the two liquors, a pint or more of cream boiling-hot, the macaroni that was first taken out, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese; make it hot, but do not let it boil. Serve itwith the crust of a French roll cut into the size of a shilling. A Pepper-pot, to be served m a Tureen. To three quarts of water put vegetables according to the season; in summer, peas, lettuce, and spinach; in winter, carrots, turnips, celery, and onions in both. Cut small, and stew with two pounds of neck of mutton, or a fowl, and a pound of pickled pork, in three quarts of water, till quite tender. On first boiling, skim. Flalf an hour before serving, add a lobster, or crab, cleared from the bones. Season" with salt and Cayenne. A small quantity of rice should l)e put in with the meat. Some people choose very small suet dumplings boiled with it. Should any fat rise, skim nicely, and put half a cup of water with a little flour. Pepper-pot may be made of various things, and is understood to be a due proportion of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse. Turnip Soup. Take off a knuckle of veal all the meat that car. beSOUP?. TOl made into cutlets, &c. and set the remainder on to sto'v with an onion, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and five pints of water ; cover it close ; and let it do on a slow fire, four or five hours at least. Strain it, and set it by till next day ; then take the fat and sediment from it, and simmer it with turnips cut into small dice till tender, seasoning it with salt and pepper, before serving, rub down half a spoonful of flour with half a pint of good cream, and the size of a walnut of butter. Let a small roll simmer in the soup till wet through, and serve this with it. It should be as thick as middling cream. Old-Peas Soup. Save the water of boiled pork or beef; and if too salt, put as much fresh water to it; or use fresh water entii'ely with roast-beef bones, a ham or gammon-bone, or an anchovy or two. Simmer these with some good whole or split peas ; the smaller the quantity of water at first, the better. Simmer till the peas will pulp through a cr.llender; then set the pulp, and more of the liquor that boiled the peas, with two carrots, a turnip, a leek, and n stick of celery cut into bits, to stew till all is quite ten- der. The last requires less time ; an hour will do tor it. When ready put fried bread cut into dice, dried mint rubbed fine, pepper, and (if wanted) salt into the tureen, and pour the soup in. Green-Peas Soup. In shelling the peas, divide the old from the young; put the old ones, with an ounce of butter, a pint of wa- ter, the outside leaves of a lettuce or two, two onions, pepper, and salt, to stew till you can pulp the peas ; and when you have done so, put to the liquor that stewed them some more water, the hearts and tender stalks of the lettuces, the young peas, a handful of spinach cut small, and .salt and pepper to relish j)roperly, and stew till quit soft. If tlie soup is too thin, or not rich enough, either of tliese faulis may be removed by adding an ounce or two of butter, mixed with a spoonful of rice or wheat-flour, and boiled with it half an hour, before servi ig boil some green mint shred fine in the soup.102 DOSrESTiC COOKERY, When there is plenty of vegetables, notneat is neces- sary ; but if meat be preferred, a pig's foot, or ham- bone, kc. may be boiled with the old peas, which is called the stock. More butter than is mentioned above may be used with advantage, if the soup is required to be very rich. When peas first come in, or are very young, the stock may be made of the shells washed, and boiled till they will pull with the above: more thickening will then be wanted. Gravy Soitp. Wash and soak a leg of beef; break the bone, and set it on the fire with a gallon of water, a large bunch of sweet herbs, tw'o large onions sliced and fried a Jine browni (butnot burnt), two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty berries of allspice, and forty black peppers. Stew till the soup is as rich as you choose ; then take out the meat, which will be fit for the servants' table w'ith a little of the gravy. Next day take off the cake of fat; which will serve for basting, or for common ] ie-crust. Have ready such vegetables as you choose to serve. Cut car- rots, turnips, and celery, small, and simmer till tender: some people do not like them to be sent to table, onlj the flavour of them. Boil vermicelli a quarter of an hour ; and add to it a lar2,e spoonful of soy, and one of mushroom-ketchup. A French roll shoidd be made hot, put into the soup till moist through, and served in the tureen. regefable Soup. Pare and slice five or six cucumbers; and add to these the inside of as many cos-lettuces, a sprig or two of mint, tw'o or three onions, some pepper and salt, a pint and a half of youngpeag, and a little parsley. Put these, with half a pound of fresh butter, into a sauce-pan, to stew in their own liquor, near a gentle fire, half an hour; then ]mur two quarts of boiling-water to the vegetables, and Slew them two hours ; rub down a little flour into a tea-cupful of water, boil it with the rest fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve it.103 SOUPS. jlnolher ivay.—Peel and slice six large onions, six potatoes, six carrots, and tbor turnips ; fry them in half a pound of butter, and pour on them lour quarts of boiling water. Toast a crust of bread as brown and hard as possible, but do not burn it; put that, some celery, sweet herbs, white pepper, and salt to the above ; stew it all gently four hours, then strain it through a coarse cloth: have ready sliced carrot, celery, and a little turnip, and add to your liking, and stew them tender in the soup. If approved you may add an anchovy, and a spoonful of ketchup. Carrot Soup. Put some beef-bones, with four quarts of the liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, two large onions, a turnip, pepper, and salt into a sauce- pan, and stew for three hours. Have ready six large carrots sci’aped and cut thin, strain the soup on them, and stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve or coarse cloth, then boil the pulp with the soup, which is to be as thick as peas-soup. Use two wooden spoons to rub the carrots through. Make the soup the day before it is to be used. Add Cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and not the yellow. Onion Soup. Into the water that has boiled a leg or neck of mut- ton put carrots, turnips, and (if you have one) a shank- bone, and simmer two hours. Strain it on six onions, first sliced and fried of a light brown, simmer three hours, skim it carefully, and serve. Put into it a little roll, or fried bread. Spinach Soup. Shred two handfuls of spinach, a turnip, two onions, a head of celery, two carrots, and a little thyme and parsley. Put all into a stew-pot, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a pint of broth, or the water in which meat has been boiled : stew till the vegetables are quite tender, work them through a coarse cloth or sieve with a spoon, then to the pulp of the vegetables and liquor put a quart of fresh water, pepper, and salt, and104 DOlfESTIC COOKiniy. boil all together. Have ready some suet-dumpllngs, the size ol'a walnut; and before you put the soup into the tureen, put them into it. The suet must not be shred too fine; and take care that it is quite fresh. Scotch-Leek Soup. Put the water that has boiled a leg of mutton into a stew-pot, with a quantity of chopped leeks, and pepper and salt; simmer them an hour: then mix someoaimeal with a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into the soup, set it on a slow part of the fire, and let it simmer gently; but take care that it does not burn to the bot- tom. Hare Soup. Take an old hare that is good for nothing else, cut it into pieces, and put to it a pound and a half of lean beef, two or three shank-bones of mutton well-cleaned, a slice of lean bacon or ham, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; pour on it two quarts of boiling water; cover the iarinto which you put these, with bladder and paper, and set it in a kettle of water. Simmer till the hare is stewed to pieces ; strain off the liquor and give it one Doil, w'ith an anchovy cut into pieces ; and add a spoon- ^1 of soy, a little Cayenne, and salt. A few fine force- meat-balls, fried of a good brown, should be served in the tureen. Ox-Rump Soup. Two or three rumps of beef will make it stronger than a much larger quantity of meat without these; and form a very nourishing soup. Make it like gravy soup, and give it what flavour or thickening you like. Hessian Soup and Ragout. Clean the root of a neat’s tongue very nicely, and half an ox’s head, with salt and water, and soak them after- wards in water only. Then stew them in five or six quartsof water, till tolerably tender. Let the soup stand to be cold ; take off the fat, which will make good paste for hot meat-pies, or will do to baste. Put to the soup a106 SOUPS. pint of split peas, or a quart of whole ones, twelve car- rots, six turnips, six potatoes, six large onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two heads of celery. Simmer them without the meat till the vegetables are done enough to pulp with the peas through a sieve, and the soup will then be about the thickness of cream. Season it with pepper, salt, mace, allspice, a clove or two, and a little Cayenne, all in fine powder. If the peas are bad the soup may not be thick enough, then boil in it a slice of roll and put it through the cullender, or add a little rice-fiour, mixing it by degrees. For the Ragout cut the nicest part of the head, the kernels, and part of the fat of the root of the tongue into small thick pieces. Rub these with some of the above seasoning as you put them into a quart of the liquor, kept out for that purpose before the vegetables were added, flour well, and simmer them till nicely tender. Thenputalittle mushroom and walnut-ketchup, a little soy, a glass of port wine, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and boil all up together before served. If for company small eggs and force-meat balls, j This way furnishes an e.xcellent soup and a ragout i at a small expense, and they are not common. The I other part will warm for the family. Soup d-la-sap. Boil half a pound of grated potatoes, a pound of beef sliced thin, a pint of grey peas, an onion, and three I ounces of rice in si.x pints of water to five, strain it I through a cullender, then pulp the peas to it, and turn it into a sauce-pan again with two heads of celery || sliced. Stew it tender, and add pepper and salt, and j when you serve add also fried bread. Portable Soup. Boil one or two knuckles of veal, one or two shins of beef, and three pounds of beef in as much water only as will cover them. Take the marrow out of the bones, put any sort of spice you like, and three large onions. When the meat is done to rags strain it off, and put it106 DOMESTIC COOKERY. into a very cold place. Vvlien cold take off the cake of I'al (which will make crusts lor servants’ pies), put the soup into a double-bottomed tin sauce-pan and set it on a pretty quick fire, but do not let it burn. It must boil last and uncovered, and be stirred constantly, for eight hours. Put it into a pan and let it stand in a cold place a day, then pour it into a round soup china-dish, and set the dish into a stew-pan of boiling water on a stove and let it boil, and be now and then stirred, till the soup is thick and ropy, then it is enough. Pour it into the little round part at the bottom of cups or basons turned upside down to form cake«, and when cold turn them out on flannel to dry. Keep them in tin canisters. When they are to be used melt them in boiling water, and if you wish the flavour of herbs, or any thing else, boil it first, strain oft’the water, and melt the soup in it. This is very convenient in the country or at sea, where fresh meat is not always at hand, as by this means a bason of soup may be made in five minutes. Soup maigre. klelt half a pound of butter into a stew-pan, shake it round, and throw in six middling onions sliced. Shake the pan well for two or three minutes, then put to it five heads of celery, two handfuls of spinach, two cabbage- lettuces cut small, and some parsley. Shake the pan well for ten minutes, then put in two quarts of water, some crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful of beaten pepper, Uiree or four blades of mace, and if you have any white beet leaves add a large spoonful of them cut small. Boil gently an hour. Just before serving beat in two yolks of eggs and a large spoonful of vinegar. Another.—Flour and fry a quart of green peas, four onions sliced, the coarse stalks of felery, a carrot, a tur- nip, and a parsnip, then pour on them three quarts of water. Let it simmer till the whole will pulp through a sieve, then boil it in the best of the celery cut thin. Stock for broicn or while Fish-Soups. Take a pound of skate, four or five ftounders, and two pounds of eels. Clean them well, and cut them intoSOUPS, i07 pieces: cover them with water; and season coem wim mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley-roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer an hour and a half closely covered, and then strain itolfforuse. If for brown soup, first fry the fish bi'own in butter, and then do as above. It will not keep more than two or three days. Eel Soup. Take three j>ounds of small eels : put to them two quarts of water, a crust of bread, three blades of mace, some whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs : cover them close, and stew till the fish is quite broken ; then strain it off. Toast some bread, cut it into dice, and pour the soup on it boiling. A piece of carrot may be put in at first. This soup will be as rich as ' made of meat. A quarter of a pint of rich cream, with a tea-spoonful of flour rubbed smooth in it, is a great improvement. Skafe Soup. Make it of the stock for fish-soup (as directed in the last page); with an ounce of vermicelli boiled in it, a little before it is served. Then add half a pint of cream, beaten with the yolks of two eggs. Stir it near, but not on, the fire. Serve it with a small French roll made hot in a Dutch oven, and then soaked in the soup an hour. Excellent Lobster Soup. Take the meat from the claws, bodies, and tails, of 6 small lobsters : take away the brown fur, and the l;ag inthehead; beatthefins,chine,and smallclaws, in a mor- tar. Boil it very gently in 2 quarts of water, with the crumb of a French roll, some white pepper, salt, twt) anchovies, a large onion, sweet herbs, and a bit of le- mon-peel, till you'have extracted the goodness of th.em all. Strain it otF. Beat the spawn in a mortar, with a bit of butter, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of flour; mix it with a quart of cream. Cut the tails into pieces, and give them a boil up with the cream and soup. Serve with forcemeat-balls made of the renraiii-DOMESTIC COOKERY. 108 der an the lobster, mace, pepper, salt, a few cnimba, and of egg or two. Let the balls be made up with a bit of flour, and heated in the soup. Lraw-Jinh or Prawn Soup. Boil six whitings, and a large eel, (or the eel and half a thornback, well cleaned,) with as much water as will cover them ; skim them clean, and put in whole pepper, mace, ginger, parsley, an onion, a little thyme, and 3 cloves. Boil to a mash. Pick fifty craw'fish, or a hun- dred prawns ; pound the shells, and a little roll; but first boil them with a little water, vinegar, salt, and herbs : put this liqour over the shells in a sieve ; then pour the other soup, clear from the sediment. Chop a lobster, and add this to it, with a quart of good beef- gravy : add also the tails of the crawfish or the prawns, and some flour and butter; and season as may be liked, if not high enough. Oynter Soup. Take two quarts of fish-stock, as directed in page 106 ; beat the yolks often hard eggs, and the hard part of tw'o quarts of oysters, in a mortar, and add this to the stock. Simmer it all for half an hour; then strain it off, and put it and the oysters (cleared of the beard':, and nicely washed) into the soup. Simmer five minutes: have ready the yolks of 6 raw eggs well beaten, and add them to the soup. Stir it all well one way on the side ofthe fire till it is thick and smooth, but don’t let it boil. Serve altogether. Oyster Mouth Soup- Make a rich mutton broth, with two large onions, 3 blades of mace, and black pepper. When strained pour it on a hundred and fitly oysters, without the beards, and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Simmer gently a quarter of an hour, and serve. GRAVIES. General Directions respecting Gravies. Gr..vy may-be made quite as good of the skirts ofloy RRAVIES. beef, and the kidney, as of any other meat, prepared in the same way. An ox kidney, or milt, makes good gravy, cut all tc pieces, and prepared as other meat; and so will the sliank end of mutton that has been dressed, if much be not wanted. The shank-bones of mutton are a great improvement to the richness of gravy ; but lirst soak them well, and scour them clean. Taragon gives the flavour of French cookery, and in high gravies is a great improvement; but it should be added only a short time before servdng. 7 0 draw gravy that will keep a week. Cut lean beef thin, put it into a frying-pan without any butter, and set it on a fire covered, but take care it does not burn : let it stay till all the gravy that comes out of the meat is dried up into it again ; put as much w’ater as will cover the meat, and let that stew away. Then put to the meat a small quantity C)f water, herbs, onions, spice, and a bit of lean ham ; simmer till it is rich, and keep it in a cool place. Don’t take oft' the fat till going to be used. Clear Gravy. Slice beef thin ; broil a part of it over a very clear quick fire, just enough to give colour to the gravy, but not to dress it: put that and the raw into a very nicely tinned stew-pan, with two onions, a clove or two, whole black peppers, berries of allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs: cover it w'ith hot water, give it one boil, and skim it well two or three times; then cover it, and simmer till quite strong. ^ C'ullis, or brown Gravy. Lay over the bottom of a stew-pan as much lean veal as will cover it an inch thick; then cover the veal with thin slices of undressed gammon, two or three onions, two or three bay-leaves, some sweet herbs, two blades of mace, and three, cloves. Cover the stew-pan, and set it over a slow fire; but when the juices come out, letDOMESTIC COOKEKT. the fire be a little quicker. When the meat is of a fine brown, fill the pan with good beef-broth, boil and skim It, then simmer an hour: add a little water, mi.ved with as much flour as will make it properly thick: boil it half an hour, and strain it. This will keep a week. Bechamel, or white Sauce. Cut lean veal into small slices, and the same quantity of lean bacon or ham ; put them into a stew-pan with a good piece of butter, an onion, a blade of mace, a few mushroom-buttons, a bit of thyme, and a bay-leaf; fry tJie whole over a very slow fire, but not to brown it; thicken it w ith flour; then put an equal quantity of good 'broth, and rich cream; let it boil half an hour, and stir it all the time; strain it through a soup-strainer. A Gravy, without Meat. Put a glass of small beer, a glass of water, some j)epper, salt, lemon-peel grated, a bruised clove or two, and a spoonful of walnut-pickle, or mushroom ketchup, into a bason. Slice an onion, flour and fry it in a piece of butter till it is brown. Then turn all the above into a small tosser with the onion, and simmer it covered twenty minutes. Strain it off’ for use, and when cold take off the fat. A rich Gravy, Cut beef into thin slices, according to the quantity wanted ; slice onions thin, and flour both ; fry them of a light pale-brown, but don't on any account suffer them to get black: put them into a stew-pan, pour boiling water on the browning in the frying pan, boil it up, and pour on the meat. Put to it a bunch of parsley, thyme, and savoury, a small bit of knotted marjoram, the same of taragon, some mace, berries of allspice, whole black peppers, a clove or two, and a bit of ham, or gammon of bacon. Simmer till you have extracted all the juices of the meat; and be sure to skim tlie moment it boils, and often after. If for a hare, or stewed fish, anchovy should be added.Ill GKAVIES. Grat'y for a Fowl when there is no Meat to make it of. Wash the feet nicely, and cut tliein and the neck small; simmer them with a little bread browned; a slice of onion, a bit of parsley and thyme, some pepper and salt, and the liver and gizzard, in a quarter of a pint of water, till half-wasted. Take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. Then thicken it with flour and butter, and add a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and it will be very good. Veal Gravy. Make it as directed for Cullis, page 109; but leave out the spice, herbs, and flour. It should be drawn very slowly ; and if for white dishes, don’t let the meat brown. Gravy to make Mutton eat like Ve^iison, Pick a very stale woodcock, or snipe, cut it to pieces (but first take out the bag from the entrails), and simmer with as much unseasoned meat gravy as you will want. Strain it, and serve in the dish. Strong Fish Gravy. Skin two or three eels, or some flounders; gut and wash them very clean ; cut them into small pieces, and put into a saucepan. Cover them with w'atei', and add a little crust of bread toasted brown, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, an anchovy or two, and a tea-spoonful of horse-radish. Cover close, and simmer; add a bit of butter and flour, and boil with the above. Savoury Jelly, to pul over Cold Pies. Make it of a small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of veal, or a piece of scrag of that, or mutton; or, if the pie be of fowl or rabbit, the carcases, necks, and heads, added to any piece of meat, will be sufficient, observing to give consistence by cow-heel or shanks of mutton. Put the meat, a slice of lean ham or bacon, a faggot of different herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small bit of lemon-peel, and a tea-spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, and the same of whole pepper, and M112 DOMESTIC COOKERY. three pints of water, in a stew-pot that shuts very close. As soon as it boils skim it well, and let it simmer very slowly till quite sti'ong; strain it, and when cold take off the fat with a spoon first, and then, to remove every particle of grease, lay a clean piece of cap or blotting-paper on it. When cold, if not clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs, (but don’t add the sediment), and pour it through a nice sieve, with a napkin in it, which has been dipped in boiling water, to prevent waste. Jelly, to cover cold Fiah. Clean a maid, and put it into three quarts of water, with a calf’s foot, or cow-heel, a stick of horse-radish, an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, a piece of*lemon-peel, and a good slice of lean gammon. Ste-w until it will jelly ; strain it off; when cold remove every bit of fat; take it up from the sediment, and boil it with a glass of sherry, the whites of four or five eggs, and a piece of lemon. Boil without stirring; and after a few minutes set it by to stand half an hour, and strain it through a bag or sieve, with a cloth in it. Cover the fish with it when cold. PART V. SAUCES, &c. A very good Sauce, especially to hide the had Colour of Fowls. Cut the livers, slices of lemon in dice, scalded pars« ley and hard eggs: add salt, and mix them with but- ter, boil them up, and pour over the fowls. This will do for roast rabbit. JVhite Sauce for Fricassee of Folds, Rabbits, White Meat, Fish, or Fegetables. It is seldom necessary to buy meat for this favourite sauce, as the proportion of that flavour is but small. The water that has. boiled fowds, veal, or rabbit; or a little broth, that may be in the house ; or the feet and necks of chicken, or raw or dressed veal, will suffice. Stew with a little w’ater any of these, with a bit oflemon<113 SAUCES. peel, some sliced onion, some white peppercorns, a little pounded mace, or nutmeg, and a bunch of sweet herbs, until the flavour be good, then strain it, and add a little good cream, a piece of butter, and a little flour: salt to your taste. A squeeze of lemon may be added after the sauce is taken off the fire, shaking it well. Yolk of egg is often used in fricassee, biit if you have any cream it is better; and the former is apt to curdle. Sauce for Wild Fowl. Simmer a tea-cupful of port wine, the same quantity of good meat-gravy, a little shalot, a little jJej^per, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a bit of mace, for ten minutes ; put in a bit of butter and flour, give it all one boil, and ]>our it through the birds. In general they are not stulfed as tame, but may be done so if liked. Another for the same, or for Ducks. Serve a rich gravy in the dish : cut the breast into slices, but don’t take them off; cut a lemon, and put pepper and salt on it; then squeeze it on the breast, and pour a spoonful of gravy over before you help. An excellent Sauce for Carp, or boiled Turkey. Rub half a pound of butter wdth a tea-spoonful of flour, put to it a little water, melt it, and add near a ■quarter of a pint of thick cream, and half an anchovy chopped fine, not washed ; set it over the fire ; and as It boils up, add a large spoonful of real India soy. If that does not give it a fine colour, put a little more. Turn it into the sauce-tureen, and put some salt and half a lemon : stir it well to hinder it from curdling. Sauce for Fowl of any sort. Boil some veal-gravy, ])epper, salt, the juice of a Seville orange and a lemon, and a quarter as much of port wine as of gravy : pour it into the dish, or a boat. Sauce for cold Fowl, or Partridge. Rub down in a mortar the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, an anchovy, two desert-spoonfuls of oil, three of vinegar, a shalot, Cayenne if approved, and a tea- spoonful of mustard. All should be pounded before114 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the oil is added. Then strain it. Shalot-vinegar instead of shalot, eats well. Sauce d-la-Maitre cT Hotel. Put a piece of butter into a sauce-pan with some hashed parsley, some taragon leaves, one or two leaves of balm, with salt, lemon, or a glass of verjuice; mix the whole with a wooden spoon, until they are well incorporated. A very fine Mushroom Sauce, for Fowls or Rabbits. Wash and pick a pint of young mushrooms, and rub them with salt, to take off the tender skin. Put them into a sauce-pan with a little salt, some nutmeg, a blade of mace, a pint of cream, and a good piece of butter rubbed in flour. Boil them up, and stir them till done; then pour it round the chickens, &c. Garnish with lemon.—If you cannot get fresh mush- rooms, use pickled ones done white, with a little mushroom powder with the cream, &c. Lemon white Sauce for boiled Fowls. Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint of sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon-thyme, and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer gently till it tastes well of the lemon : then strain it; and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a desert- spoonful of flour rubbed in it. Boil it up ; then pour the juice of the lemon strained into it, stirring it well Di.sh the chickens, and then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but don’t boil them together : add salt to your taste. Liver Sauce- Chop boiled liver of rabbits or fowls, and do it as directed for lemon-sauce, page 117, with a very little 2>epper and salt, and some parsley. Egg Sauce. Boil the eggs hard, and cut them into small pieces; then put them to melted butter. Onion Sauce. Peel the onions, and boil them tender : squeeze theSAUCES. lio water from them, then chop them and add them to but- ter that has been melted rich and smooth, as will be hereafter directed, but with a little good milk instead of water; boil it up once, and serve it for boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A turnip boiled with the onions makes them milder. Clear Shalot Sauce. Put a few chopped shalots into a little gravy boiled clear, and near half as much vinegar, season with pepper and salt: boil half an hour. To make Parsley Sauce when no Parsley-leaves are to be had. Tie up a little parsley-seed in a bit of clean muslin and boil it ten minutes in some water. Use this water to melt the butter ; and throw into it a little boiled spinach minced, to look like parsley. Green Sauce, for green Geese, or Ducklings. Mix a quarter of a pint of sorrel-juice, a glass of white wine, and some scalded gooseberries. Add sugar, and a bit of butter. Boil them up. Dread Sauce. Boil a large onion, cut into four, with some black peppers and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Pour the milk strained on grated white stale bread, and cover jt. In an hour put it into a sauce-pan, with a good piece of butter mixed with a little flour; boil the whole up together, and serve. Dutch Sauce for Meat or Fish. Put six spoonfuls of water, and four of vinegar, into a sauce-pan warm, and thicken it with the yolks of two eggs. Make it quite hot, but do not boil it: squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and strain it through a sieve. Sauce Robart, for Rumps or Steaks. Put a piece of butter, the size of an egg, into a sauce- pan, set it over the fire, and when browning, throw in a handful of sliced onions cut small; fry them brown, but don’t let them burn : add half a spoonful of flour, shakeDOMESTIC COOKERY, 116 the onions in it, and give it another fry: then put four spoonfuls of gravy, and some pepper and salt, and boil it gently ten minutes ; skim off the fat; add a tea- spoonful of made mustard, a spoonful of vinegar, and the juice of half a lemon ; boil it all, and pour it round the steaks. They should be of a fine yellow brown, and garnished with fried parsley and lemon. Benton Sauce, for hot or cold roast Beef. Grate, or scrape very fine, some horse-radish, alittle made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and four large spoonfuls of vinegar. Serve in a saucer. Sauce for Fish Pies, where Cream is not ordered. Take equal quantities of white wine not sweet, vine- gar, oyster-liquor, and mushroom-ketchup ; boil them up with an anchovy; strain ; and pour it through a funnel into the pie after it is baked. Another.—Chop an anchovy small, and boil it up with three spoonfuls of gravy, a quarter of a*pint of cream, and a bit of butter and flour. Tomata Sauce, for hot or cold I\[eats. Put tomatas, when perfectly ripe, into an earthen jar ; and set it in an oven, when the bread is drawn, till they are quite soft; then separate the skins from the pulp ; and mix this with capsicum-vinegar, and a few cloves of garlick pounded, which must both be proportioned to the quantity of fruit. Add powdered ginger and salt to your taste. Some white-wine vinegar and Cayenne may be used instead of capsicum-vinegar. Keep the mixture in small wide-mouthed bottles, well corked, and in a dry cool place. Apple Sauce, for Goose and roast Pork. Pare, core, and slice, some apples ; and put them in a stone jar, into a sauce-pan of water, or on a hot hearth. If on a hearth, let a spoonful or two of water be put in to hinder them from burning. When they are done, bruise them to a mash, and put to them a bit of butter the size of a nutmeg, and a little brown sugar. Serve it in a sauce-tureen.SAUCKS. 117 The old Currant Sauce for Venisou. Boil an ounce of dried currants in half a pint of water, a few minutes ; then add a small tea-cuptul of bread-crumbs, six cloves, a glass of port wine, and a bit of butter. Stir it till the whole is smooth. Lemon Sauce. Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, and put them into melted butter; give it one boil, and pour it over boiled fowls. Carrier Sauce for iMutton, Chop six shalots fine; and boil them up with a gill of gravy, a spoonful of vinegar, some pepper and sah Serve in a boat. Ham Sauce. When a ham is almost done with, pick all the meat lean from the bone, leaving out any rusty part ; beat the meat and the bone to a mash with a rolling-pin ; put it into a sauce-pan, with three spoonfuls of gravy ; set it over a slow fire, and stir it all the time, or it will stick to the bottom. When it has been on sometime, put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of beef-gravy ; cover it up, and let it stew over a gentle fire. When it has a good flavour of the herbs, strain off the gravy. A little of this is an improvement to all gravies. A very fine Fish Sauce. Put into a very nice tin sauce-pan a pint of fine port wine, a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut-ket- chup, twelve anchovies, and the liquor that belongs to them, a gill of walnut-pckle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, four or five shalots, some Cayenne to taste, three ounces of scraped horse-radish, three blades of mace, and two tea-spoonfuls of made mustard ; boil it all gently, till the rawness goes off; then put it into small bottles for use. Cork them very close, and seal the top. Another.—Chop twenty-four anchovies not washed, and ten shalots, and scrape three spoonfuls of horse-DOMESTIC COOKEIiV, 118 radish; which, with ten blades of mace, twelve cloves, two Sliced lemons, halfapint of anchovy-liqtior, a quart of hock, or Rhenish wine, and a pint of water, boil to a quart: then strain off; and when cold, add three large spoonfuls of walnut-ketchup, and put into small bottles well corked. Fi.'ih Sauce without Butter. Simmer very gently a quarter of a pint of vinegar and half a pint of water (which must not be hard), with an onion, half a handful of horse-radish, and the following spices lightly bruised'; four cloves, two blades of mace, and half a tea-spoonful of black pepper. When the onion is quite tender, chop it small with two anchovies, and set the whole on tlie fire to boil lor a few minutes, with a spoonful of ketchup. In the mean time, have ready and well beaten, the yolks of three fresh eggs ; strain them, mix the liquor by degrees with them, and when well mixed, set the sauce-pan over a gentle fire, keeping a bason in one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the sauce-pan over the fire, that the eggs may not curdle. Don’t boil them, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of melted butter. Wi/t Sauce d-la-Craster. Thicken a quarter ot a pound of butter with flour, and brown it; then put to it a pound of the best ancho- vies cut small, six blades of pounded mace, ten cloves, forty berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions,a faggot ofsweet herbs (namely, savoury, thyme, basil, and knotted marjoram), and a little parsley and sliced horse-radish : on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a pint and a half of strong gravy. Simmer all gently for twenty minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and bottle it for use : the way of using it is, to boil some of it in the butter while melting. yin excellent substitute for Caper Sauce. Roil slowly some parsley, to let it become a bad co- lour, cut, but don’tchop itjinc ; putit to melted butter,119 SAUCES. with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a desert-spoonful of vinegar. Boil up and serve. Oijuter Sauce. Save the liquor in opening the oysters ; and boil it with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel. In the mean time throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it oft’. Strain the liquor, and put it into a sauce- pan with them, and as much butter, mixed with a little milk, as will make sauce enough j but first rub a little flour with it. Set them over the fire, and stir all the time: and when the butter has boiled once or twice, take them off, and keep the sauce-pan near the fire, but not on it; for if done too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little lemon-juice, and serve. If for company, a little cream is a great improvement. Observe, the oysters will thin the sauce, so put butter accordingly. Lobiler Sauce. Pound the spawn, and two anchovies ; pour on them two spoonfuls of gravy; strain all into some butter j melted, as will be hereafter directed: then put in the 1 meat of the lobster, give it all one boil, and add a I squeeze of lemon. Another way.—Leave out the anchovies and gravy; I and do it as above, either with or without a little salt I and ketchup, as you like. Many prefer the flavour of 1 the lobster and salt only. Shrimp Sauce. If the shrimps are not picked at home, pour a little i water over them to wash them : put them to butter melted thick and smooth, give them one boil, and add the juice of a lemon. Anchovy Sauce. Chop one or two anchovies without washing, put them to some flour and butter, and a little drop of water; stir it over the fire till it boils once or twice. When the120 DOMESTIC COOKERY. anchovies are good, they will be dissolved ; and tha colour will be better than by the usual way. To melt Batter, zvhich is rarely well done, though a very essential article. Mix in the proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour to four ounces of the best butter, on a trencher. Put it into a small sauce-pan, and two or three table-spoon- fuls of hot water, boil quick a minute, shaking it all the time. Milk used instead of water, requires rather less butter, and looks whiter. Vingaret, for cold Fowl, or Meat- Chop mint, parsley, and shalot, mix with salt, oil, and vinegar. Serve in a boat. Shalot Vinegar. Split six or eight shalots; put them into a quart bot- tle. and fill it up with vinegar, stop it, and in a month It will be fit for use. Camp Vinegar. Slice a large head of garlick ; and put it into a wide- mouthed bottle, with half an ounce of Cayenne, two tea-spoonfuls of real soy, two of walnut-ketchup, four ancnovies chopped, a pint of vinegar, and enough coch- ineal to give it the colour of lavender-drops. Let it stand six weeks ; then strain off quite clear, and keep in small bottles sealed up. Sugar Vinegar, To every gallon of water put two pounds of the very coarsest sugar, boil and skim thoroughly, then put one quart of cold water for every gallon of hot. When cool, })ut into it a toast spread with yeast. Stir it nine days; then barrel, and set it in a place where the sun will lie on it, with a bit of slate on the bung-hole. INIake it in March, it will be ready in six months. When sufficiently sour, it may be bottled, or may he used from the cask with a wooden spigot and faucet. Gooseberry Vinegar. Boil spring water ; and when cold, put to every three quarts^ a quart of bruised gooseberries in a large tub.121 SAUCES. Let them remain sixty hours, stirring often, then strain through a hair bag, and to each gallon of liquor add a pound of the coarsest sugar. Put it into a barrel, and a toast and yeast: cover the bung-hole with a bit of slate, &c. as above. The greater quantity of sugar and fruit the stronger the vinegar. Cucumber Vinegar. Pare and slice fifteen large cucumbers and put them in a stone jar, with three pints of vinegar, four large- onions sliced, two or three shalots, a little garlick, two large spoonfuls of salt, three tea-spoonfuls of pepper, and half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne. After standing four days give the whole a boil, when cold, strain, and filter the liquor through paper. Keep in small bottles add to sallad, or eat with meat. JVine Vinegar. After making raisin wine, when the fruit has been strained, lay it on a heap to heat, then to every hundred weight put fifteen gallons of water—set the cask, and put yeast. See. as before. As vinegar is so necessary an article in a family, and one on which so great a profit is made, a barrel or two might always be kept preparing, according to what suited. If the raisins of wine were ready, that kind might be made ; if a great plenty of gooseberries made them cheap, that sort; or if neither, then the sugar vinegar—so that the cask may not be left empty, and grow musty. Naslurtions, for Capers. Keep them a few days after they are gathered, then pour boiling vinegar over them, and when cold, cover. They will not be fit to eat for some months, but are then finely flavoured, and by many preferred to capers. To make Mustard. Mix thebest Durham flour of mustard by degrees with boiling water to a proper thickness, rubbing it perfectly smooth ; add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar closeDOMESTIC COOKERY. 122 covered, and put only as much into the glass as will be used soon, which should be wiped daily round the edges. Another way, for immediate use- Mix the mustard with new milk by degrees, to be quite smooth, and add a little raw cream. It is much softer this way, is not bitter, and will keep well. The patent mustard is by many preferred, and it is perhaps as cheap, being always ready ; and if the pots are returned, three-pence is allowed for each. A tea-spoonful of sugar to half a pint of mustard is a great improvement, and softens it. Kitchen Pepper. Mix in the finest powder one ounce of ginger; of cinnamon, black pepper, nutmeg, and Jamaica pepper, half an ounce each; ten cloves, and six ounces of salt. Keep it in a bottle; it is an agreeable addition to any brown sauces or soups. Spice in powder, kept in small bottles close stopped, goes much further than when used whole. It must be dried before pounded, and should be done in quanti- ties that may be wanted in three or four months. Nutmeg need not be done, but the others should be kept in separate bottles with a little label on each. To dry Mushrooms. AVipe them clean, and of the large take out the brown, and peel off the skin. Lay them on paper to dry in a cool oven, and keep them in paper bags in a dry place. AVhen used simmer them in the gravy, and they will swell to near their former size: to simmer them in their own liquor till it dry up into them, shaking the pan, then drying on tin plates, is a good way, with spice or not, as above, before made into powder. Tie down with bladder, and keep in a dry place, or in paper. Mushroom Powder. AVash halfa peck oflarge mushrooms while quite fresh, and free them from grit and dirt with flannel, scrape out the black part clean, and do not use any that are worm-SAUCES. 123 eaten, piit them into a stew-pan over the fire without water, with two large onions, some cloves, a quarter of an ounce ot mace, and two spoonfuls of white pepper, all in powder; simmer and shake them till all the liquor be dried iqi, but be careful they do not burn. Lay them oi; tins or sieves in a slow oven till they are dry enough to beat to powder, then put the powder in small bottles, corked, and tied closely, and keep in a dry place.—A tea-spoonful will give a very fine flavour to any soup or gravy, or any sauce ; and it is to be added just be- fore serving, and one boil given to it after it is put in. To choose yinchovies. They are preserved in barrels, with bay salt: no other fish has the fine flavour of the anchovy. The best look red and mellow, and the bones moist and oily; the flesh should be high flavour, the liquor reddish, and have a fine smell. Essence of Anchovies. Take two dozen of anchovies, chop them, and with- out the bone, but with some of their own liquor strained, add them to sixteen large spoonfuls of water; boil gently till dissolved, which will be in a few minutes — when cold, strain and bottle it. 7’o keep Anchovies ichen the liquor dries. Pour on them beef-brine. To make Sprats taste like Anchovies. Salt them well, and let the salt drain from tliem. In twenty-four hours wipe them dry, but do not wash them. Mix four ounces of common salt, an ounce of bay salt, an ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of an ounce of sal prunel, and half a tea-spoonful of cochineal, all in the finest powder. Sprinkle it among three quarts of the fish, and pack them in two stone jars. Keep in a cold place, fastened dow'n with a bladder. These are pleasant on bread and butter, but use the best for sauce. Forcemeat, Whether in the form of stuffing-balls, or for patties, makesDOMESTIC COOKERY. 124 a considerable part of good cooking, by the flavour it imparts to whatsoever dish it is added, if properly made. Exact rules for the quantity cannot easily be given; but the following observ^ations may be useful, and habit will soon give knowledge in mixing it to the taste. At many tables, where every thing lese is well done, it is common to find very bad stuffing. According to what it is wanted for, should be the se- lection from the following list, observing that of the most pungent articles, least must be used. No one fla- vour should predominate greatly; yet, if several dishes be served the same day, there should be a marked va- riety in the taste of the forcemeat, as w'ell as of the gravies. It should be consistent enough to cut with a knife, but not dry and heavy. Forcemeat Ingredients. Cold fowl or veal. Scraped ham. Fat bacon. Beef-suet. Crumbs of bread. Parsley. White pepper. Salt. N utmeg. Yolk and white of egss well beaten, to bind the mixture. Oysters. Anchovy. Taragon. Savoury. Pennyroyal. Knotted marjoram. Thyme. Basil. Yolks of hard eggs. Cayenne. Garlic. Shalot. Chives. Jamaica pepper,in fine pow- der, or two or three cloves. 1 he first column contains the articles of which the forcemeat may be made, w'ithout any striking flavour ; and to those, may be added some of the different in- gredients of the second column, to vary the taste. Forcemeat, to force Fowls or Meat. Shred a little ham, or gammon, some cold veal, or fowl, some beef-suet; a small quantity of onion, scu.e125 SAUCES. parsley, ver}' little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and either white pepper or Cayenne, and bread crumbs. Pound it in a mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs beaten and strained. For forcemeat patties the mixture as above. For cold savour// Pies. The same ; only substituting fat, or bacon, for suet. Ihe livers, (if the pie be of rabbit or fowls) mixed w ith tat and lean of pork, instead of bacon, and seasoned as above, is excellent. For Hare, see to roast, page 94. Ditto, for baked Pike, page 14. Ditto, for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod, pace 14 Ditto, for Soles, page 16. ^ t o • Ditto, for Hackerel, page 13. Ditto, fo Fish Pie, page 128. Very fine Forcemeat-balls, for Fish Soups, or Fish Slewed, or maigre days. ’ Beat the flesh and soft parts of a middling lobster, hcdf an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard egg, a little Cayenne, mace, salt, and w'hite pepper, with two table-spoonfuls cf bread crumbs, one ditto of oyster liquor, two ounces of butter warmed, and two eggs long beaten : make into balls, and fry of a fine brown in butter. Forcemaat as for Turtle, at the Bush, Bristol. A pound of fine fresh .suet, one ounce of ready dressed veal or chicken, chopped fine, crumbs of bread, a little shalot or onion, salt,white pepper, nutmeg, mace, penny- royal, parsley, and lemon, thyme finely shred ; beat as many Iresh eggs, yolks and whites separately, as will make the above ingredients into a moist paste ; roll into small balls, and boil them in fresh lard, putting them in just as it boils up When of a light brown, take them out, and drain them before the fire. If die suet be moist or stale, a great many more eggs will be necessary. Balls made this way are remarkably light j but be*DOMr.STIC COOKERy; 126 ing greasy, some people prefer them with less suet aud eggs. Little Eggafor Turtle. Beat three hard yolks of eggs in a mortar, and make into a paste with the yolk of a raw one, roll it into small balls, and throw them into boiling water for two minutes to harden. Browning, to colour and flavour made-diskes. Beat to powder four ounces of double refined sugar, put it into a very nice iron frying-pan, with one ounce of fine fresh butter, mix it well over a clear fire, and, when it begins to froth, hold itup higher; when of a very fine dark brown, pour in a small quantity of a pint of port, and the whole by very slow degrees, stirring all the time. Put to the above half an ounce of Jamaica, and the same of black pepper, six cloves of shalots peeled, three blades of mace bruised, three spoonfuls of mush- room, and the same of walnut ketchup, some salt, and the finely pared rind of a lemon ; boil gently fifteen mi- nutes, pour it into a bason till cold, take off the scum, and bottle for use. Casserol, or Rice Edging, for a Currie, or Fricassee. After soaking and picking fine Carolina rice, boil it in water, and a little salt, until tender, but not to a mash; drain, and put it round the inner edge of the dish, to the height of two inches; smooth it with the back of a spoon, and w^ash it over with yolk of egg, and put it into the oven for three or four minutes, then serve the meat in the middle. PART VI. PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTRY. SAVOURY PIES. (Fruit Pies will he placed under the head pastry.J Observatio7is on Savourj/ Pies. There are few articles of cookery more generally liked than relishing pies, if properly made ; and they1-27 SAVOURY PIES. may be made so of a great variety of things. Some are best eaten when cold, and, in that case, there should be no suet put into the forcemeat that is used with them. If the pie is either made of meat that will take more dress- ing, to make it extremely tender, than the baking of the crust will allow ; or if it is to be served in an earthen pie- form ; observe the following preparation: Take three pounds of the veiny piece of beef (for in- stance) that has fat and lean; wash it; and season it with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, rub- bing them well in. Set it by the side ofa slow fire, in a stew-pot that will just hold it; putto ita piece ofbutter, of about the weight of two ounces, and cover it quite close; let itjust simmer in its own steam till it begins to shiink. When it is cold, add more seasoning, force- •ueat, and eggs: and if it is in a dish, put some gravy to it before baking ; but if it is only in crust, don’t put the gravy till after it is cold and in jelly, as has been de- scribed in pages 111 and 112. Forcemeat may be put both under and over the meat, if preferred to balls. Eel Pie. Cut the eels in lengths of two or three inches, season with pepper and salt, and place in the dish, with some bits of butter, and a little water; and cover it with paste. Cod Pie. Take a piece of the middle of a small cod, and salt it well one night: next day wash it; season with pepper, salt, and a very little nutmeg, mixed ; place in a dish, and put some butter on it, and a little good broth o^‘ any kind into the dish. Cover it withacnist; and when done, add a sauce of a spoonful of broth, a quarter of apint of cream, a little flour and butter, a grate of lemon and nutmeg, and give it one boil. Oysters may be added. Mackarcl will do well, but do not salt them till used. Parsley picked aijd put in, may be used instead of oysters. NJ28 DOMESTIC CODICERT. Sole Pie. Split some soles from the bone, and cut the fins close; season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg and pounded mace, and put them in layers, with oysters. They eat excellently. A pair of middling-sized ones will do, and half a hundred of oysters. Put in the dish the oyster-liquor, two or three spoonfuls of broth, and some butter. When the pie comes home, pour in a cupful of thick cream. Shrimp Pie, excellent. Pick a quart of shrimps; if they are very salt, season them with only mace and a clove or two. Mince two or three anchovies; mix these with the spice, and then season the shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom of the dish, and over the shrimps, with a glass of sharp white wine. The paste must be light and thin. They do not take long baking. Lobster Pie. Boil two lobsters, or three small, take out the tails, cut them in two, take out the gut, cut each in four pieces,, and lay in a small dish, put in then the meat ofthe claws, and that you have picked out of the body ; pick oif the furry parts from the latter, and take out the lady; the spawn, beat in amortar; like wise all the shells : setthem on to stew with some water, two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, pepper, salt, and some poimded mace ; alarge piece of butter, rolled in flour, must be added when the goodness of the shells is obtained : give a boil or two, and pour into the dish strained ; strew some crumbs, and put a paste over all; bake slowly, but only till the 2^aste be done. A remarkable fine Fish Pie. Boil two pounds of small eels ; having cut the fins quite close, pick the flesh off, and throw the bones into the liquor, wiih a little mace, pepper, salt, and a slice of onion; boil till quite rich, and strain it. Make force- meat of the flesh, an anchovy, parsley, lemon-peel, salt, pepper, and crumbs, and four ounces of butter warmcd>SAVOURY PIES. 1>9 and lay it at the bottom of the dish. Take the flesh of soles, small cod, or dressed turbot, and lay them on the forcemeat, having rubbed it with salt and pepper: pour the gravy over and bake. Observe to take oft' the skin and fins, if cod or soles. > Pilchard and Leek Pie, Clean and skin the w'hite part of some large leeks; scald in milk and water, and put them in layers into a dish, and between the layers, two or three salted pil- chards which have been soaked for some hours the day before. Cover the whole with a good plain crust. When the pie is taken out of the oven, lift up the side crust with a knife, and empty out all the liquor; then pour in half a pint of scalded cream. Beefsteak Pfe. Prepare the steaks as in page 37, and when seasoned and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish with puff paste round the edges; put a little water in the dish, and cover it with a good crust. Veal Pie. I Take some of the middle, or scrag, of a small neck ; I season it; and either put to it, or not, a few slices of lean I bacon or ham. If it is wanted of ahigh relish, add mace, , Cayenne, and nutmeg, to the salt and pepper; and also 1 forcemeat and eggs ; and if you choose, add truffles, mo- ' rels, mushrooms, sweetbreads cut into small bits, and cocks’-combs blanched, if liked. Have a rich gravy I ready, to pour in after baking.—It will be very good I w'ithout any of the latter additions. A rich Veal Pie. Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal; season them I witli pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little clove in pow- i der. Slice two sweetbreads, and season them in the same i| manner. Lay a puff paste on the ledge ofthe dish ; then put the meat, yolks of hard eggs, the sweetbreads, and some oysters up to the top of the dish. Lay over the whole some very thin slices of ham, and fill up the dish ' w'ith water; cover; and, when it is taken outol the oveu,^loO IlOJIiiSTlC COOKtllY. j)Our in at the lop, through a funnel, a few spoonfuls of good veal-gravy, and some cream to fdl up ; but first boil it up with a tea-spoonful of flour. Tiaiflies, &c, if approved. Veal (or Chicken) and Parsleij Pie. Cut some slices from the leg or neckofveal; if the leg, from about the knuckle. Season them with salt; scald some parsley that is picked from the stems, and squeeze it dry; cut it a little, and lay it at the bottom of the dish ; then put the meat, and so on, in layers. Fill the dish with new milk, but not so high as to touch the crust. Co- ver it; and when baked, pour out a little of the milk, and put in half a pint of good scalded cream. Chicken may be cut up skinned, and made in the same way. Veal-olive Pie. Make the olives as directed in page 51: put them round and round the dish, making the middle highest. '?ill it up almost with water, and cover it. Add gravy /;ream, and flour. Calf’s-head Pie. Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating, with two onions, a few isinglass shavings, abunch ofherbs, a blade of mace, and a few pepper-corns, in 3 pints of water. Keep the broth for the pie. Take off a bit of the meat for the balls, and let the other be eaten, but simmer the bones in thebroth till itis very good. Flalf-boil the head, and cut it in square bits; put a layer of ham at the bot- tom ; then some head, first fat then lean, with balls and hard eggs cut in half, and so on till the dish be full: but be particularly careful not to place the pieces close, or the pie will be too solid, and there will be no space for the jelly. The meat must be first pretty well seasoned with pepper and salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Put a little water and alitlle gravy into the dish, and cover it with a tolerable thick crust; bake it in a slow oven, and, wh.en done, pour into it as much gravy as it can possibly hold, and do not cut it till perfectly cold; in doing which, observe to use a very sharp knife, and first cut out a large131 SAVOVRY PIES. bit, going down to the bottom of the dish : and when done thus, thinner slices can be cut; the dillei'ent co- lours, and the clear jelly, have a beautitul marbled appearance. A small pie may be made to eat hot, which with high seasoning, oysters, mushrooms, truffles,'morels, &c. has a very good appearance. The cold pie will keep many days. Slices make a pretty side-dish. Instead of isinglass, use a calf’s foot, or a cow-heel, if the jelly is not likely to be stiff enough. The pickled tongxies of former calves’-heads may be cut in, to vary the colour, instead of, or besides ham. Excellciit Pork Piea, to eat cold. Haise common boiled crust into either a round or oval form, as you choose; have ready the trimming and small bits of pork cutoff when a hog is killed ; and if these are- not enough, take the meat off a sweet bone. Beat it well with a rolling-pin ; season with pepper and salt, and keep the fat and lean separate. Put it in layers, quite close up to the top : lay on the lid ; cut the edge smooth round, and pincli it; bake in a slow soaking oven, as the meat is very solid. Directions for raising the crust will be given hereafter, dlie pork may be put into a common dish, with a very plain crust; and be quite as good. Observe to put no bone or water into pork pie ; the outside of the pieces will be hard, unless they are cut small and pressed close. Mutton Pie. Cut steaks from a lion or neck of mutton that has huno'; l)eat them, and remove some of the fat. Season witl^salt, pepper, and a little onion ; put a little water at the bottom of the dish, and a little paste at the edge ; then cover with a moderately thick paste. Or raise small pies, and breaking each bone in two to shorten it, sea- son, and cover it over, pinching the edge. 'When they come out, pour into each a spoonful of gravy made of & tit of mutton.132 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Squab Pie. Cut apples as for other pies, and lay them in rows with mutton-chops : shred onion, and sprinkle it among them, and also some sugar. Lamb Pie. Make it of the loin, neck, or breast; the breast of house-lamb is one of the most delicate things that can he eaten. It should be very liglitly seasoned with pepper and salt; the bone taken out, but not the gristles ; and a small quantity of jelly gravy be put in hot; but the pie should not be cut till cold. Put two spoonfuls of water before baking. Grass lamb makes an excellent pie, and may either be boned or not, but not to bone it is perhaps tlie best. Season with only pepper and salt; put twc spoonfuls of water before baking, and as much gravy 'when it comes from the oven. A'b/e.—Meat-pies being fat, it is best to let out the gravy on one side, and put it in again by a funnel, at the centre, and a little may be added. Chicken Pie. Cut up two young fowls; season with w'hite pepper, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest powder; likewise a little Cayenne. Put the chicken, slices of ham, or fresh gammon of bacon, forcemeat-balls, and hard eggs, by turns in layers. If it is to be baked in a dish, put a little water ; but none if in a raised crust. By the time it returns from tlie oven, have ready a gravy of knuckle of veal, or a bit of the scrag with some shank- bones of mutton, seasoned with herbs, onion, mace, and white pepper. If it is to be eaten hot, you may add truflles, morels, mushrooms, &c. but not if to be eaten cold. If it is made in a dish, put as much grav)'as will fill it; but, in raised crust, the gravy must be nicely strained, and then put in cold as jelly. To make the jelly clear, you may give it a boil with the whites of two eggs, after taking away the meat, and then run through a fine lawn sieve.133 SAVOVRY PUTS. Ilahhils, if young and in flesh, do ns well: their legs should be cut short, and the breast-bones must no go in, but will help to make the giavy. Green-goose Pie. Bone two young green geese, of a good size ; but first take away every plug, and singe them nicely. Wash them clean ; and season them high with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice. Put one inside the other ; and press them as close as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Put a good deal of butter over them, and bake them cither with or without crust; if the latter, a cover to tliedisli must fit close to keep in the steam. It will keep long. Duck Pie. Bone a full-grown young duck and a fowl; wash them, and season with pepper and salt, and a small proportion of mace and allspice, in the finest powder. Put the fowl within the duck, and in the former a calf's tongue pickled red, boiled very tender and peeled. Press the uhole close; the skins of the legs should be drawn inwards, that the body of the fowls may be quite smooth. li approved, the space between the sides of the crust may be filled with a fine forcemeat, made according to the second receipt given for making forcemeat in P25. Bake it in a slow oven, either in a raised crust, or pie- dish with a thick crust, ornamented. The large pies in Staffordshire are made as above: but with a goose outwards, then a turkey, a duck next, then a fowl; and either tongue, small birds, or force- meat, in the middle. Giblet Pie. After very nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets, stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them grow cold ; and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or two or three mutton steaks, at bottom. Put the liquor of the stew to bake with the above ; and when the pie is baked, pour into it a large tea-cupful of cream. Sliced potatoes added to it, cat extremely well.DOMESTIC COOKERY. m Pigeon Pie. Rub the pigeons with pepper and salt, inside and out; ill the latter put a bit of butter, and, if approved, some parsley chopjied with the livers, and a little of the same seasoning. Lay a beef steak at the bottom of the dish, and the birds on it; between every two, a hard egg. Put a cup of water in the dish ; and if you have any ham in the house, lay a bit on each pigeon : it is a great improvement to the flavour. Observe, when ham is cut for gravy or pies, to take the under jiart rather than the prime. Season the gizzards, and two joints of the wings, and put them in the centre of the pie; and over them, in a hole made in the crust, three feet nicely cleaned, to show wdiat pie it is. Partridge Pie in a duh. Pick and singe lour partridges ; cut off the legs at the knee ; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and mushrooms. Lay a veal-steak, and a slice of ham, at the bottom of tlie dish: put the partridge in, and half a pint of good brotli. Put puff paste on the ledge of the dish, and cover with the same ; brush it over with egg, and bake an hour. Hare Pie, to eat eold. Season the hare after it is cut up ; and bake it, with eggs and forcemeat, in a raised crust or dish. When it is to be served, cut off the lid, and cover it with jelly- gravy, as in 111. A French Pie. Lay a puff-paste round on the ledge of the dish : and put ill either veal in slices, rabbits or chickens jointed ; witli forcemeat-balls, sweetbreads cut in pieces, arti- choke-bottoms, and a few truffles. Fegetable Pie. Scald and blanch some broad beans; cut young carrots, tuinips, ai ticlioke-bottoms, mush rooms, pease, onions, lettuce, parsley, celery, or any of them you have ; make the whole into a nice stew, with some good veal-gravy.SAUCES, 135 Bake a crust over a dish, with a little lining round the edge, and a cnp turned up to keep it from sinking. When baked, open the lid, and pour in the stew. Parsley Pie. Lay a fowl, or a few bones of the scrag of veal, sea^ soned, into a dish; scald a colander-full of picked pars- ley in milk ; season it; and add it to the fowl or meat, with a tea-cnp fill of any sort of good broth, or weak gravy. When it is baked, pour it into a quarter of a pint of cream scalded, with the size of a walnut of but- ter, and a bit of flour. Shake it round, to mix with the gravy already in. Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach may be added to the parsley, and scalded before put in. Turnip Pie. Season mutton-chops with salt and pepper, reserving tlie ends of the neck-bones to lay over the turnips, whichmust be cutiuto small dice, and puton the steaks. Put two or three good spoonfuls ofinilkin. You may add sliced onion. Cover with a crust. Potatoe Pie. Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices ; season them ; and also some mutton, beef, pork,or veal. Put layers of them and of the meat. An Herb Pie. Pick two handfuls of parsley from the stems, half tlie quantity of spinach, two lettuces, some mustard and cresses, a few leaves of burage, and white beet- leaves : wash, and boil them a little ; then drain, and press out the water; cut them small; mix, and l«y them in a dish, sprinkled with some salt. Mix a baiter of flour, two eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, and pour it on the herbs; cover with a good crust and hake. Paised Crust for Meat-pies, or Fowls, 8{c. Boil water with a little finelard, and an equal quantity of fresh dripping, or of butter, but not much of either. While hot, mix this with as much flour as you will wanti136 DOMESTIC COOKERY. making the paste as stifFas you can to be smooth, which you will make it by good kneading and beating it with the rolling-pin. When quite smooth, put in a lump into? cloth, or under a pan, to soak till near cold. Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may do thus : Roll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bottom of the pie, then a long piece for the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the former rather further out, and pinching both tf)gether; put egg between the edges of the paste, to make it adhere at the sides. Fill your pie, and put on the cover, and pinch it and the side crust together. The same mode of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered ; but in the latter case, the tin should be buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough; and as the form usually makes the sides of a lighter colour than is proper, the paste should be put into the oven again for a quarter of an hour. With a feather, put egg over at first PUDDINGS, &c. Observations on mahing Puddmgs and Pancakes. The outside of a boiled puddingoften tastes disagree- ably ; which arises from the cloth not being nicely wash- ed, and kept in a dry place. It should be dipped in boiling water, squeezed dry, and floured when to be used. If bread, it should be tied loose ; ifbatter, tight over. The water should boil quick when the pudding is put in; and it should be moved about for a minute, lest the ingredients should not mix. Batter-pudding should be strained through a coarse sieve, when all is mixed. In others the eggs separately. The pans and basins must always be buttered, A pan of cold water should be ready, and the pud- ding dipt in as soon as it comes out of the pot, and then it will not adhere to the cloth. Very good puddings may be made without eggs; but they must have as litile milk as will mix, and must boilPUDDINGS. 137 three or four hours. A few spoonfuls of fresh small beer, or one of yeast, will answer instead of eggs. Or Snow is an excellent substitute for eggs, either in puddings or pancakes. Two large spoonfuls will supply the place of one egg, and the article it is used in will be equally good. This is an useful piece of information, especially as snow often falls at the season when eggs are dearest. Fresh small beer, or bottled maltliqiiors, like- wise serve instead of eggs. The snow may be taken up from any clean spot before it is wanted, and will not lose its virtue, though the sooner it is used the better. ,A/ote.—The yolks and whites beaten long and separate- ly, make the article they are put into much lighter. Almond Puddings, Beat half a pound of sweet and a few bitter almonds with a spoonful of water ; then mix four ounces of but- ter, four eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, warm with the butter, one of brandy, a little nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Butter some cups, half fill, and bake the puddings. Serve with butter, wine, and sugar. Baked Almond Pudding, Beat fine four ounces of almonds, four or five bitter ditto, with a little wine, yolks of six eggs, peel of two lemons grated, six ounces of butter, near a quart of cream, and juice of one lemon. When well mixed, bake it half an hour, with paste round the dish. Small Almond Puddings. Pound eight ounces of almonds, and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water; mixed with four oz. of butter warm- ^’‘r’ed, four yolks and two whites of eggs, sugar to taste, two spoonfuls of cream, and one of brandy ; mix well, and bake in little cups buttered. Serve with pudding-sauce. Sago Pudding. Boil a pint and a half of new milk, with four spoonfuls of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon-peel, cinna- mon, and nutmeg; sweeten to taste; then mix four eggs, put a paste round the dish and bake slowly,DOMESTIC COOKERY. 138 Bread and Butter Pudding. Slice bread spread with butter, and lay it in a dish with currants between each layer; and sliced citron, orange, or lemon, it to be very nice. Pour over an un- boiled custard of milk, two or three eggs, a few pimen- tos, and a very little ratafia, two hours at least before it is to be baked ; and lade it over to soak the bread. A paste round the edge makes all puddings look better, but is not necessary. Orange Puddhig. Grate the rind of a Seville orange ; put to it six ounces offresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump sugar pound- ed : beat them all in a marble mortar, and add as you do it the whole of 8 eggs well beaten and strained; scrape a raw apple, and mix with the rest; put a paste at the bottom and sides of the dish, and over the orange mix- ture put cross bars of paste. Ilalf an hour will bake it. Another.—Mix of orange paste two full spoons, with ;ix eggs, four of sugar, four ounces of butter warm, and put into a shallow dish with a paste lining. Bake tiventy minutes. Another.—Rather more than two table-spoonfuls of tlie orange paste, mixed with six eggs, four ounces of sugar, and tour ounces of butter, melted, will make a good sized pudding, with a paste at the bottom of the dish. Bake twenty minutes. An excellent Lemon Pudding. Beat the yolks of four eggs ; add four ounces of white sugar, the rind of a lemon being rubbed with some lumps ofittotake the essence ; then peel, and beat it in a mortar with the juice of a large lemon, and mix all with four or five ounces of butter warmed. Put a crust into a shallow dish, nick the edges, and put the above, into it. When served, turn the pudding out of the dish. A verijfine Amber Pudding. Put a pound of butter into a saucepan, with three fjnarters of a pound of loafsugar finely powdered ; melt the butter, and mix well with it • then add the yolks ofrUDDIXGS. 139 fifteen eggs well beaten, and as much fresh candied- orange as will add colour and flavour to it, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line the dish with paste for- turning out; and when filled with the above, lay a crust o\-ei-, as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven. It is as good cold as hot. Baked jipple Padding. Pare and quarter four large apples; boil them tender, with the rind of a lemon, in so little water that, when done, none may remain; beat them quite fine in a mor- tar; add the crumb of a small roll, lour ounces of but- ter melted, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste; beat all to- gether, and lay it in a dish with paste to turn out. Oatmeal Pudding. Pour a quart of boiling milk over a pint of the best fine oatmeal; let it soak all night; next day beat two eggs, and mix a little salt; butter a bason that will just liold it; cover it tight with a floured cloth, and boil if an hour and a half. Eat it with cold butter and salt. When cold, slice and toast it, and eat it as oatcako buttered. Dutch Pudding, or Sous ter. Dklelt one pound of butter in half a pint of milk ; mix it into two pounds of flour, eight eggs, four spoonl'ul ofye-ist; add one pound of currants, and a quarter of a pound of sugar beaten and sifted. This is a very good pudding hot; and equally so as a cake when cold. If for the latter, caraways may be used instead of currants. An hour will bake it in a quick oven. yl Dutch Pice Pudding. Soak four ounces of rice in warm water half an hour; drain the latter from it, and throw it into a stew-pan, with half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, and simmer till tender. When cold, add four whole eggs well beaten, two ounces of butter melted in a tea-DOMESTIC COOKERY. 140 cupful of cream; and put three ounces of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a good piece of lemon-peel. Put a light puff-paste into a mould or dish, or grated tops and bottoms, and bake in a quick oven. Light or German Puddings or Puffs. Melt three ounces of butter in a pint of cream ; let it stand till nearly cold; then mix two ounces of fine flour, and two ounces of sugar, four yolks and two whites of eggs, and a little rose or orange-flower water. Pake in little cups, buttered, half an hour. They should be served the moment they are done, and only when going to be eaten, or they will not be light. Turn out of the cups, and serve with white wine and sugar. Lillie Bread Puddings. Steep the crumb of a penny loaf grated, in about a pint of warm milk; when soaked, beat six eggs, whites and yolks, and mix with the bread, and two ounces of butter warmed, sugar, orange-flower water, a spoonful of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of cream. Beat all well, and bake in tea-cups buttered. If cur- rants are chosen, a quarter of a pound is sufficient; if not, they are good without: or you may put orange or lemon candy. Serve with pudding-sauce. Puddings in haste. Shred suet, and put with grated bread, a few cur- rants, the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, some grated lemon-peel, and ginger. Mix ; and make into little balls about the size and shape of an egcr with a little flour. Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them in. Twenty minutes will boil them; but they will rise to the top when done. Pudding-sauce. New College Puddings. Grate the crynnb of a twopenny loaf, shred suet eight ounces, and mix w'ith eight ounces of currants, one ofPUDDINGS. 141 citron mixed fine, one of orange, a handful of sugar, half a nutmeg, three eggs beaten, yolk and white sepa- rately. !Mix, and make into the size and shape of a goose-egg. Put half a pound of butter into a frying- pan ; and, when melted and quite hot, stew them gently in it over a stove ; turn them two or three times till of a fine light brown. ]\Iix a glass of brandy with the batter. Serve with pudding-sauce. Boiled Bread Pudding. Grate white bread ; pour boiling milk over it, and cover close. When soaked an hour or two, beat it fine, and mix with it two or three eggs well beaten. Put it into a bason that will just hold it; tie a floured doth over it, and put it into boiling water. Send it up with melted butter poured over. It may be eaten with salt or sugar. Prunes, or French plumbs, make a fine pudding in- stead of raisins, either with suet or bread pudding. Another, and richer.—On half a pint of crumbs of bread pour half a pint of scalding mdk ; cover for an hour. Beat up four eggs, and when strained, add to the bread, with a tea-spoonful of flour, an ounce of butter, two ounces of sugar, half a pound of currants, an ounce of almonds beaten, with orange-flower water, half an ounce of orange, ditto lemon, ditto citron. Butter a bason that will exactly hold it, flour the cloth, and tie tight over, and boil one hour. Brown Bread Pudding. Half a pound of stale brown bread grated, ditto of currants, ditto of shred suet, sugar, and nutmeg; mi.x with four eggs, a spoonful of brandy, and two spoon- fuls of cream; boil in a cloth or basin that exactly holds it three or four hours. jVetson Puddings. Put into a Dutch oven six small cakes called Nelson- balls, or rice-cakes made in small tea-cups. When quite hot, pour over them boiling melted butter, whits ftine, and sugar ; and serve.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 142 Eve's Pudding. Grate three quarters of a pound of bread ; mix it with tlie same quantity of shred suet, the same of apples, and also of currants; mix with these the whole of lour eggs, and the rind of half a lemon shred fine. Put it into a shape ; boil three hours ; and serve with pudding- sauce, the juice of half a lemon, and a little nutmeg. Qtialxhig Pudding, Scald a quart of cream ; when almost cold put to it four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of flour, some nutmegs and sugar; tie it close in a buttered cloth ; boil it an hour; and turn it out with care, lest it should crack. Melted butter, a little wine, and sugar. Du/ce of Cumberland's Pudding. Mix six ounces of grated bread, the same quantity of currants well cleaned and picked, the same of beef- suet finely shred, the same of chopped apples and also of lump-sugar, six eggs, half a nutmeg, a pinch of salt, the rind of a lemon minced as fine as possible; and citron, orange, and lemon, a large spoonful of each cut thin. j\1ix thoroughly, and put into a basin; cover very close with floured cloths, and boil three hours. Serve it with pudding-sauce, and the juice of half a lemon, boiled together. Transparent Pudding. Beat eight eggs very v/ell; put them into a stew-pan, with half a pound of sugar pounded fine, the same quan- tity of blitter, and some nutmeg grated. Set it on the fire, and keep stirring it till it thickens. Then set it into a basin to cool; put a rich puff paste round the edge of the dish; pour in your pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. It will cut light and clear. You may add candied orange and citron, if you like. Balter Pudding. Hub three spoonfuls of fine flour extremely smooth by degrees into a pint of milk; simmer till it thickens; stir in two ounces of butter; set it to cool; then add the yolks of three eggs: flour a cloth that has been wet, orPUDDINGS. 143 butter a basin, and put the batter into it; tie if tight, and plunge it into boiling water, the bottom upwards. Boil it an hour and a half, and serve with plain butter. If approved, a little ginger, nutmeg, and lemon-peel may be added. Serve with sweet sauce. Batter Puddhig with Meat. Make a batter with flour, milk, and eggs ; pour a little into the bottom of a pudding dish ; then put sea- soned meat of any kind into it, and a little shred onion ; pour the remainder of the batter over, and bake in a slow oven. Some like a loin of mutton baked in batter, being first cleared of most of the fat. Rice small Puddings. Wash two large spoonfuls of rice, and simmer it with half a pint of milk till thick, then put the size of an egg of butter, and near half a pint of thick cream, and give it one boil. When cold, mix four yolks and two whites of eggs well beaten, sugar and nutmeg to taste; and add grated lemon, and a little cinnamon. Butter little cups, and fill three parts full, putting at bottom some orange or citron. Bake three quarters of an hour in a slowish oven. Serve the moment before to be eaten, with sweet sauce in the dish, or a boat. Plain Rice Pudding. Wash and pick some rice; throw among it some pi- mento finely pounded, but not much; tie the rice in a cloth, and leave plenty of room for it to swell. Boil it in a quantity of water for an hour or two. When done, eat it with butter and sugar, or milk. Put lemon-peel if you please. It is very good without spice, and eaten with salt and butter, ji rich Rice Pudding. Boil half a pound of rice in water, with a little bit of salt, till quite tender; drain it dry ; mix it with the yolks and whites of four eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, with two ounces of fresh butter melted in the o144 DOMESTIC COOKEKY. latter, four ounces of beef-saet or marrow, or veal-suet taken from a fillet of veal, finely shred,, three (jiuu tei s of a pound of currants, two spoonfuls ot brandy, one of peach-water, or ratafia, nutmeg, and gi’ated lemon- peel. When well mixed, put a paste round the edge, and fill the dish. Slices of candied orange, lemon, and citron, if approved. Bake in a moderate oven. Rice Pudding with Fruit. Swell the rice with a very little milk over the fire ; then mix frriit of any kind with it (currants, goose- berries scalded, pared and quartered apples, raisins, or black currants) ; with one egg into the rice,, to bind it; boil it well, and serve with sugar. Baked Rice Pudding. Swell rice as above ; then add some more milk, an egg, sugar, allspice, and lemon-pecll. Bake in a deep dish. .Another.^ for the Family.—Put into a very deep pan half a pound of rice, w'ashed and picked ; two ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, a few allspice pounded, and two quarts of milk. Less butter will do, or some suet. Bake in a slow oven. A George Pudding. Boil very tender a handful of whole rice in a smal. quantity of milk, with a large piece of lemon-peel. Let it drain: then mix with it a dozen of good-sized apples, boiled to pulp as dry as possible; add a glass of white wine, the yolks of five eggs, tw'o ounces of orange and citron cut thin; make it pretty sweet. Line a mold or basin with a very good paste; beat the five whites of the eggs to a very strong froth, and mix with the other ingredients; fill the mold-, and bake it of a fine brown colour. Serve it with the bottom upsvard with the following sauce : two glasses of wane, a spoonful of sugar, the yolk of two eggs, and a bit of butter as large as a walnut; simmer wdthout boiling, and pour to and from the sauce-pan, till of a proper thickness ; and put in the dish.U5 PUDDING!?. Ah excellent plain Potatoe Pudding. Take eight ounces of boiled potatoes, two ounces of butter, the yolks and whites of two eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, one spoonftd of white wine, a morsel of salt, the juice and rind of a lemon ; beat all to froth ; sugar to taste. A crust or not, as you like. Bake it. If wanted richer, put three ounces more butter, sweet- meats and almonds, and another egg. Potatoe Pudding tcith Meat. Boil them till lit to mash ; rub through a colander, and make into a thick batter with milk and two eggs. Lay some seasoned steaks in a dish, then some batter ; and over the last layer put the remainder of the batter. Bake a line brown. Steak or Kidney Pudding. If kidney, split and soak it, and season that or the meat. Make a paste of suet, flour, and milk ; roll it, and line a basin with some; put the kidney or steaks in, - cover with paste, and pinch round the edge. Cover with a cloth, and boil a considerable time. Beefsteak Pudding. Prepare some line steaks as in page 37 ; roll them with fat between ; and if you approve shred onion, add a very little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and put ir. the rollers of steaks ; cover the basin with a paste, and pinch the edges to keep the gravy in. Cover with a cloth tied close ; and let the pudding boil slowly, but for a length of time. Baked Beefsteak Pudding. Make a batter of milk, two eggs and flour, or, which is much better, potatoes boiled and mashed througli a colander; lay a little of it at the bottom of the dish , then put in the steaks prepared as above, and very weh seasoned ; pour the remainder of the batter over them, and bake it. Mutton Pudding. Season with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion ; lay one layer of steaks at the bottom of the dish ; and pour adomest:c cookery. lid batter of potatoes boiled and pressed tbrough a colan- der, and mixed with milka’nd an egg, over them ; tlien putting the rest of the steaks, and batter, bake it. Batter with Hour, instead of potatoes, eats well, but requires more egg, and is not so good. Another.—Cut slices off a leg that has been under- done, and put them into a basin lined with a fine suet- crust. Season with pepper, salt and finely-shred onion or shalot. Suet Pudding. Shred a pound of suet; mix with a pound and a quar- ter of flour, two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it. Boil four hours. It eats well next day, cut in slices and broiled. The outward fat of loins or necks of mutton finely shred, makes a more delicate pudding than suet. Veal-suet Pudding. Cut the crumb of a threepenny loaf into slices ; boil and sweeten two quarts of new milk, and pour over it. When soaked, pour out a little of the milk; and mix with six eggs well beaten, and half a nutmeg. Lay the slices of bread into a dish ; with layers of currants and veal-suet shred, a pound of each. Butter the dish well, and bake ; or you may boil it in a basin, if you prefer it. Hunter's Pudding. Mix a pound of suet, diito flour, ditto currants, ditto raisins-stoned and a little cut, the rind of half a lemon shred as fine as possible, six Jamaica peppers in fine powder, four eggs, a glass of brandy, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it of a proper consistence; boil it in a floured cloth, or a melon-mould, eight or nine hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Add sometimes a spoonful o' peach-water for change of flavour. This pudding will keep, after it is boiled, six months, if kept tied up in the same cloth, and hung up, folded in a sheet of cap-paper to preverve it from dust, being first cold. When to be used, it must boil a full hour.147 PUDDINGS. Common Plum Pudding. The same proportions of flour, and suet, and half the quantity ot fiuit, with spice, lemon, a glass of wine or not, and one egg and milk, will make an excellent pud- ding, if long boiled. Custard Pudding. Mix by degrees a pint of good milk with a large spoon- ful of flour, the yolks of five eggs, some orange-flower water, and a little pounded cinnamon. Butter a basin that will exactly hold it, pour the batter in, and tie a floured cloth over. Put in boiling-water over the fire, and turn it about a few minutes to prevent the egg going to one side. Half an hour will boil it. Put currant-jelly on it, and serve wdlh sweet sauce. Macaroni Pudding. Simmer an ounce or two of the pipe-sort in a pint of milk, and a bit of lemon and cinnamon, till tender; put it into a dish, with milk, two or three eggs but only one white, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of peach- water, and half a glass of raisin-wine. Bake with a paste round the edges. A layer of orange-marmalade, or raspberry-jam, in a macaroni-pudding, for change, is a great improve- ment; in which case omit the almond-water, or ratafia, which YOU would otherwise flavour it with. Millet Pudding. Wash three spoonfuls of the seed ; put it into the dish, with a crust round the edges ; pour over it as much new milk as will nearly fill the dish, two ounces of butter, warmed with it, sugar, shred lemon, and a little scrape of ginger and nutmeg. As you put it in the oven, stir in two eggs beaten, and a spoonful of shred suet. Carrot Pudding. Boil a large carrot tender; then bruise it in a marble mortar, and mix with it a spoonful of biscuit-powder, or three or four little sweet biscuits without seeds, four yolks and two whites of eggs, a pint of cream either raw or scalded, a little ratafia, a large spoonful of orange oi148 DOMESTIC COOKERY. rose-water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and two ounces of .sugar. Bake it in a shallow dish lined with paste ; and turn it out to- serve, with a little sugar dusted over. A?i excellent Apricot Pudding. Halve twelve large apricots, give them a scald till they are soft: mean time pour on the grated crumbs of a penny loaf, a pint of boiling cream; when half cold, lour ounces of sugar, the yolks of four beaten eggs, and a glass of white wine. Pound the apricots in a mortar with some or all of the kernels ; mix then the fruit and other ingredients together ; put a paste round a dish, and bake the pudding half an hour. Jiahed Gooaeberry Pudding. Stew gooseberries in ajar over a hot hearth, or in a sauce-pan of water till they \\\W pulp. Take a pint of the juice pressed through a coarse sieve, and beat it with three yolks and w'hites of eggs beaten and strain- ed, one ounce and a half of butter; sweeten it well, and put a crust round the dish. A few crumbs of roll should lie mixed with the above to give a little consistence, or four ounces of Naples biscuits. A Green-hean Pudding. Boil and blanch old beans, beat them in a mortar, with very little pepper and salt, some cream, and the yolk of an egg. A little spinach-juice will give a finer colour, but it is as good without. Boil it in a bason that will just hold it, an hour; and pour parsley am/ butter over. Serve bacon to eat wdth it. Shelford Pudding. Mix three quarters of a pound of currants or raisins, one pound of suet, one pound of flour, six eggs, a little good milk, some lemon-peel, a little salt. Boil it in a melon-shape six hours. Drandy Puddmg. Linea mould with jar-raisins stoned, or dried cherries, then with thin slices of French roll, next to which put ratafias, or macaroons; then the fruit, rolls, and cakes11-9 PUDDINGS. in succession, until the mould be fidh; sprinkling in at times two glasses of brandy. Beat four eggs, yolks and whites; put to a {wnt of milk oi' cream, lightly sweet- ened, half a mitmeg, and the rind of half a lemon finely grated. Let the liquid sink into the solid part :; then flour a cloth, tie it tight over, arid boil one hour; keep the mould the right side up. Serve with pudding-sauce. Buttermilk Pudding. Warm three quarts of new milk; turn it with a quart of buttermilk ; drain the curd through a seive ; when dry pound it in a marble mortar, w ith near half a pound of sugar, a lemon boiled tender, the crumb of a roll grated, a nutmeg grated, six bitter almonds, tour ounces of warm butter, a tea-cupful of good cream, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, a glass of sweet wine, and ditto of brandy. When well incorporated, bake in small cups or bowds well buttered ; if the bottom be not brown, use a sala- mander ; but serve as quick as possible, and with pud- ding sauce. Curd Puddings, or Puffs. Turn tw’o quarts of milk to curd, press the whey from it, rub through a sieve, and mix tour ounces of butfer, the crumb ofa penny loaf, two spoonfuls of cream, and half a nutmeg, a small quantity of sugar, and two spoonfuls of white wine. Butter little cup.s, or small pattypans, and fill them three parts. Orange-flower water is an improvement. Bake tliem with care. Serve with sweet sauce in a boat. Boiled Curd Pudding. Rub the curd of two gallons of milk when drained through a sieve. j\Iix it with six eggs, a little cream, two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, half a nutmeg, flour and crumbs of bread each three spoonfuls, currants and raisins half a pound of each. Boil an hour in a thick well-floured cloth. Pippin Pudding. Coddle six pippins in vine-leaves covered with water, very gently, that the inside be done without breakingDOMKSTIC COOKERY. 150 the skins. When soft, skin, and with a tea-spoon take the pulp from the core. Press it through a colander ; add two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, three eggs beaten, a glass of raisin-wine, a pint of scalded cream, sugar and nutmeg to taste. Lay a thin puff" paste at the bottom and sides of the dish: shred very thin lemon- peel as fine as possible, and put it into the dish ; like- wise lemon, orange, and citron, in small slices, but not so thin as to dissolve in the baking. Vorkahire Pudding. Mix 5 spoonfuls of flour, with a quart of milk, and three eggs well beaten. Butter the pan. When brown by baking under the meat, turn the other side upwards, and brown that. It should be made in a square pan, and cut into pieces to come to table. Set it over a chafing-dish at first, and stir it some minutes. A quick-made Pudding. Flour and suet half a pound each, four eggs, a quar- ter of a pint of new milk, a little mace and nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of raisins, ditto of currants: mix well, and boil three quarters of an hour with the cover of the pot on, or it will require longer. Russian seed, or ground Rice Pudding. Boil a large spoonful heaped, of either, in a pint of new milk, with lemon-peel and .cinnamon. When cold, add sugar, nutmeg, and two eggs well beaten. Bake with a crust round the dish. A ff elch Pudding. Let ^ a pound of fine butter melt gently, beat with it the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, mix in six ounces of loaf sugar, and the rind of a lemon grated. Put a paste into a dish for turning out, and pour the above in, and nicely bake it. Oxford Dumplings. Of grated bread 2 ounces, currants and shred suet four ounces each, two large spoonfuls of flour, a great deal of grated lemon-peel, a bit of sugar, and a little pimento in fine powder. Mix wdth 2 eggs and a littlePUDDINGS, &C. 151 milk into five dumplings, and fry of a fine yellow brown. Made with flour instead of bread, but half the quantity, they are excellent. Serve with sweet sauce. Suet Dumplings. Make as pudding (page 146 ;) and drop into boiling water, or into the boiling of beef: or you may boil them in a cloth. Apple, Currant, or Damson Dumplings, or Pudding. Make as above, and line a basin with the paste to- lerably thin ; fill with the fruit, and cover it; tie a cloth over tight, and boil till the fruit shall be done enough. Yeast, or Suffolk Dumplings. Make a very light dough with yeast, as for bread, but with milk instead of water, and put salt. Let it rise an hour before the fire. Twenty minutes before you are to serve, have ready a large stew-pan of boiling water; make the dough in- to balls, the size of a middling apple ; throw them in, and boil twenty minutes. If you doubt when done enough, stick a clean fork into one, and if it come out clear, it is done. The way to eat them is to tear them apart on the top with two forks, for they become heavy by their own steam. Eat immediately with meat, or sugar and butter, or salt. A Charlotte. Cut as many very thin slices of white bread as will cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking dish, but first rub itthick with butter. Put apples, in thin slices^ into the dish, in layers, till full, strewing sugar between, and bits of butter. In the mean time, soak as many thin slices of bread as will cover the whole, in warm milk, over which lay a plate, and a weight to keep the bread close on the apples. Pake slowly three hours. To a middling-sized dish use half a pound of butter i« the whole.152 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Common Pancakes. Make a light batter of eggs, flour, and milk. Fry in a small pan, in hot dripping or lard. Salt, or nutmeg, and ginger, may be added. Sugar and lemon should be served to eat with them. Or, when eggs are scarce, make the batter with flour, and small beer, ginger, See., or clean snow, with flour, and a very little milk, will serve as well as egg. Fine Pancakes, fried icilhout Butter or Lard. Beat six fresh eggs extremely well; mix, when strained, with a pint of cream, four ounces of sugar, a glass of wine, half a nutmeg grated, and as much flour as will make it almost as thick as ordinary pancake batter, but not quite. Heat the frying-pan tolerably hot, wipe it with a clean cloth; then pour in the batter, to make thin pancakes. Pancakes of Rice. Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly in a small quan- tity of water; when cold, mix it wiih a pint of cream, eight eggs, a bit of salt and nutmeg: stir in eight ounces of butter just warmed, and add as much flour as will make the batter thick enough. Fry in as little lard or dripping as possible. Irish Pancakes. Beat eight yolks and four whites of eggs, strain them into a pint of cream, put a grated nutmeg, and sugar to your taste; set three ounces of fresh butter on the fire, stir it, and as it warms pour it to the cream, which should be warm when the eggs are put to it; then mix smooth almost half a pint of flour. Fry the pancakes very thin ; the first with a bit of butter, but not the others. Serve several, on one another. New-England Pancakes. Mix a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of fine flour, seven yolks and four whites of eggs, and a very little salt; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew sugarand cinnamon. Send up six or eight at once..153 PUDDINGS, &C. Fritters. Make them of any of the batters directed for pan- cakes, by dropping a small quantity into the pan ; or make the plainer sort, and put pared apple sliced and cored into the batter, and fry some of it with each slice. Currants, or sliced lemon as thin as paper, make an agreeable change.—Fritters for company should be served on a folded napkin in the dish. Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, may be made into fritters. Spanish Fritters. Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths, as thick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in some cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an egg. When well soaked, fry of a nice brown; and serve with butter, wine, and sugar-sauce. Potatoe Fritters. Boil two large potatoes, scrape them fine ; heat four yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above one large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a squeeze of lemon, and a little nutmeg. Beat this bat- ter half an hour at least. It will be extremely light. Put a good quantity of fine lard in a ‘stew-pan, and drop a spoonful of the batter at a time into it. Fry them; and serve as a sauce, a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, one desert-spoonful of peach-leaf or almond- water, and some white sugar warmed together: not to be served in the dish. .Another Way.—Slice potatoes thin, dip them in a fine batter, and fry. Serve with white sugar, sifted over them. Lemon-peel, and a spoonful of orange- flower water, should be added to the batter. Backings. Mix three ounces of buck-wheat flour, with a tea- cupful of warm milk, and a spoonful of yeast; let it rise before the fire about an hour; then mix four eggs well beaten, and as much milk as will make the batter the usual thickness for pancakes, and fry them the same.lol DOMESTIC COOKERY.' PASTRY. Rich Puff Paste. Puffs may be made of any sort of fruit, but it should be prepared first with sugar. Weigh an equal quantity of butter with as much fine flour as you judge necessary ; mix a little of the former with the latter, and wet it with as little water as wdll make into a stiff paste, lloll it out, and put all the butter over it in slices, turn in the ends, and roll it thin; do this twice, and touch it no moi'e than can be avoided. The butter may be added at twice ; and to those who are not accustomed to make paste it may be better to do so. A quicker oven than for short crust. .A less rich Paste. Weigh a pound of flour, and a quarter of a pound of butter, rub them together, and mix into a paste with a little water, and an egg well beaten—of the former as little as will suffice, or the paste will be tough, lloll, and fold it three or four times. Rub extremely fine in one pound of dried flour, six ounces of butter, and a spoonful of white sugar; work up the whole into a stiff paste with as little hot water as possible. Crust for Venison Pasty. To a quarter of a peck of fine flour use two pounds and a half of butter, and four eggs ; mix into paste with warm water, and work it smooth and to a good consis- tence. Put a paste round the inside, but not to the bottom of the dish, and let the cover be pretty thick, to bear the long continuance in the oven. Rice Paste for Sweets. Roil a quarter of a pound of ground rice in the smallest quantity of water: strain from it all the moisture as well as you can; beat it in a mortar with half an ounce of butter, and one egg well beaten, and it will make an excellent paste for tarts, &c.PUDDINGS, See. 155 Rice Pante for relishing thmgs. Clean, and put some rice, with an onion and a little water and milk, or milk only, into a sauce-pan, and simmer till it swell. Put seasoned chops into a dish, and cover it with the rice; by the addition of an egg, the rice will adhere better. Rabbits fricasseed, and covered thus, are very good. Potatoe Paste. Pound boiled potatoes very fine, and add, while warm, a sufficiency of butter to make the mash hold together, cr you may mix with it an egg; then before it gets cold, flour the board pretty well to prevent it from sticking, and roll it to the thickness wanted. If it is become quite cold before it be put on the dish, it will be apt to crack. Raised Crusts for Cuvtards or Fruit. Put four ounces of butter into a sauce-pan with water, and when it boils, pour it into as much flour as you choose ; knead and beat it till smooth ; cover it, as at the bottom of jmeje 136. liaise it; and if for custard, put a ])aper within to keep out the sides till half done, then fill with a cold mixture of milk, egg, sugar, and a little peach-water, lemon-peel, or nutmeg. By cold is meant that the egg is not to be warmed, but the milk should be warmed by itself—not to spoil the crust. The above butter will make a great deal of raised crust, which must not be rich, or it will be difficult to prevent the sides from falling. Excellent short Crusts. Make two ounces of white sugar, pounded and sifted, quite dry; then mix it with a pound of flour well dried ; rub into it three ounces of butter, so fine as not to be seen—into some cream put tbe yolks of two eggs, beaten, and mix the above into a smooth paste i roll it ihin, and bake it in a moderate oven. Another.—Mix with a pound of fine flour dried, an ounce of sugar pounded and sifted; then crumble three15(5 DOMESTIC COOKERY, ounces of butter in it, till it looks all like flour, and, with a gill of boiling cream, work it up to a fine paste. jinothei’, not sweet, hut rich.—Rub 6 ounces of but- ter in eight ounces of fine flour; mix into a stiffish paste, with as little water as possible ; beat it well, and roll it thin. This, as well as the former, is proper for tarts of fresh or preserved fruits. Bake in a moderate oven. A very fine Crust for Orange-cheesecakes, or Sweetmeats, when to he particularly nice. Dry a pound of the best flour, mix with it three oun- ces of refined sugar; then work half a pound of butter with your hand till it come to froth ; put the flour into it by degrees, and work into it, well beaten and strained, the yolks ofthree, and whites of two eggs. If too limber, put someflour and sugarto make it fitto roll. Lineyour pattypans, and fill. A little above fifteen minutes will bake them. Against they come out, have ready some refined sugar beat up with the white of an egg, as thick as you can; ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. Salt butter will make a very fine flaky crust; but if for mince-pies, or any sweet things, should be washed. Observations on Pastry. An adept in pastry never leaves any part of it adher- ing to the board, or dish, used in making. It is best when rolled on marble, or a very large slate. In very hot weather, the butter sboidd be put into cold water to keep it as firm as possible ; and if made early in the morning, and preserved from the air until it is to be baked, the cook will find it much better. A good hand at pastry will use much less butter, and produce ligher crust than others. -Salt butter, if very good, and well washed, makes a fine flaky crust. Remarks o?i using preserved Fruit in Pastry. Preserved fruits should not be baked long ; those that have been done with their full proportion of sugar, need no baking ; the crust should be baked in a tin shape, and thfe fruit be afierwai'ds added; or it may be put into aPASTUV. 157 small dish, or tart-pans, and the covers he baked on a tin cut out according to your taste, Apple Pie. Pare and core the fruit, having wiped the outside; which, w'ith the cores, boil with a little watertill it tastes well; strain, and put a little sugar, and a bit of bruised cinnamon, and simmer again. In the mean time place tlie apples in a dish, a paste being put round the edge; when one layer is in, sprinkle half the sugar, and shred lemon-peel, and squeeze some juice, or a glass of cyder if the apples have lost their spirit; put in the rest of the apples, sugar, and the liquor that you have boiled. Cover with paste. You may add some butter when cut, if eaten hot; or put quince-marmalade, orange-paste, or cloves, to flavour. Ilol Jlp>p!e Pie.—Make with the fruit, sugar, and a clove, and put a bit of butter in when cut open. * Cherry Pie. Should have a mixture of other fruit; currants or raspberries, or both. Carrant Pie. With or without raspberries. Mince Pie. Ofscraped beef free from skin and strings, weigh 21h., 41b. ofsuet picked and chopped, then add 6Ib, ofcurrants nicely cleaned and perfectly dry, 31b. of chopped apples, the peel and juice of two lemons, a pint of sweet wine, a nutmeg, a j of an ounce of cloves, ditto mace, ditto pimento, in finest powder; press the whole into a deep pan wlien well mixed, and keep it covered in a dry cool place. Half the quantity is enough, unless fora very large family. Have citron, orange, and lemon-peel ready, and put some of each in the pies when made. Mince Pies unlhont Meat. Of thebest apples 6 pounds, pared, cored, and min- ced ; of fresh suet, and raisins stoned, each three pounds^I5& DOMESTIC COOKERY. likewise minced: to these add of mace and cinnamon a quarter of an ounce each, and eight cloves, in finest powder, three pounds of the finest powder sugar, three quarters of an ounce of salt, the rinds of four and juice of two lemons, half a pint of port, the same of brandy. Mix well and put into a deep •»'an. Have ready -washed and dried four pounds ofcurrants, and add as you make the pies, with candied fruit. Lemon Mince Pies. Squeeze a large lemon, hoil the outside till tender enough to heat to a mash, add to it three large apples chopped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound ofcur- rants, four ounces of sugar; put the juice of the lemon, and candied fruit as for other pies. Make a short crust, and fill the pattypans as usual. Egg Mince Pies. Boll six eggs hard, shred them small; shred double the cjuantity of suet: then put currants washed and picked one pound, or more, if the eggs were large ; the peel of one lemon shred very fine, and the juice, six spoonfuls of sweet "vine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very little salt: orange, lemon, and citron, candied. Make a light paste for them. Currant and Raspberrif. Lor a tart, line the dish, put sugar and fruit, lay bars across, and bake. Light Paste, for Tarts and Cheesecakes. Bei.t the white of an egg to a strong froth; then mix it widi as much water as will make three quarters of a pound of fine flour into a very stiff paste ; roll it very thin, then lay thethird partofhalfa pound of butter upon itin little bits ; dredge it with some flour left out at first, and roll it up tight. Roll it out again, and put the same propor- tion of butter; and so proceed till all be worked up. Icing for Tarts. Beat the yolk ofan egg and some melted butter w ell to- gether, wash the tarts with a feather and sift sugar overpastry. 159 as jou put them in the oven Or heat wash the paste, and sift white .sugar, Pippin Tarts. oranges, boil the It fine; pare and core twenty apples, put them m a stew-pan, and as little water as possible; when half done, add half a pound of Sir the orange-peel and juice; boil till pretty thfck’ ben cold, put in a shallow dish, or pattypal lined with paste, to turn out, and be eaten cold. ^ „. Prttne Tart. thpnl' ^ ^ and break wil kernels into a little cranberry juice and when cold make a tart of the sw’eetmeat. * Orange Tart. Squeeze, pulp and boil two Seville oranges tender weigh them, and double of sugar ; beat both together to a paste and then add the juice and pulp ff the rint and the size of a walnut of fresh butter, and beat a liahrnnff ^ it with Codlin Tart. Scald the fruit as will be directed under that article • when ready take off the thin skin, and lay them whole in h,^ ^ the apples were boiled m at bottom, strew them over with lump.sugar or fine i^on; when cold, put a paste round the edges and over over wS"lon^' over, which looks well: or cut the lid in quarters without touching the paste on the edge of the dish • >nd either put the broad end downwards, and make the point stand up, or remove the lid altogether. Pour a ^od custard over it when cold; sift sugar over Or line the bottom of a shallow dish with paste, lay the apples in it, sweeten, and lay little twists of pastiDOMESTIC COOKERY. 160 Rhubarb Tart. Cut the stalks in lengths of four or five inches, and take off the thin skin. If you have a hot hearth, lay them in a dish, and put over a thin syrup of sugar and water, cover with another dish, and let it simmer very slowly an hour—or do them in a block tin sauce-pan. When cold, make into a tart, as codlin. When tender, the baking the crust will be sufficient. Raspberry Tart with Cream. Roll out some thin puff-paste, and lay it in a patty- pan of what size you choose ; put in raspberries; strew over them fine sugar; cover with a thin lid, and then bake. Cut it open, and have ready the following mix- ture warm: half a pint of cream, the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten, and a little sugar ; and when this is added to the tart, return it to the oven for five or six minutes. Orange Tart. Line a tart-pan with thin puff-paste : put into it orange marmalade that is made with apple-jelly; lay bars of paste, or a croquant cover over, and bake in a moderate oven. Fried Patties. Mince a bit of cold veal, and six oysters, mix with a few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a very small bit of lemon peel—add the liquor of the oysters ; warm all in a tosser, but don’t boil; let it go cold ; have ready a good puff-paste, roll thin, and cut it in round or square bits ; but some of the above between two of them, twist the edges to keep in the gravy, and fry them of a fine brown. This is a very good thing; and baked, is a fashion- able dish. Wash all patties over with egg before baking. Oyster Patties. Put a fine puff-paste into small pattypans, and cover with paste, with a bit of bread in each; and against tliey are baked have ready the following to fill with, takingI’Asruv. lo'l Ae ml,, - boards of the oysters cut fte othn parts m small bits, put them in a siuall t^ser .ah a n® °,°c ‘bo least white pepper S st;ceirsee it a Jou call ii,uo J siuiL“;^: feut them ho7,b*» ^001 ouster Patties, or Small Pie. lionnr^wl separate them from the hpa 1 ’ -DU ’ Parboil them, after taking off the laT hmu ‘bom fnles 3 h<:fnJ ^ ^^ke in a slow oven - and before you serve, put a tea-cup of cream a lit 3t nrbdle!?''Tf’r'^ "3^ of white gravy, all warLd, in 3li 5- ^ oysters should be cut PutTntolihp^’ gently stewed and seasoned as above, and put into the paste when ready for table. ,, , . , Lobster Patties. the sma'lSVit’y™tLr“ “ Shred underdo'^^drSelblX^'l httle fat with pepper, salt, and , little sha t or ' Veal Patties. Mince some veal that is not quite done with a littfo 3al and if and gravy just to moisten the meat and d yon have any ham, scrape a little and add to It. Don’t wai-m it till the’patties are baked ^ Turkey Patties. Mince some of the while part, and with grated lemon,DOMESTIC COOKERY, 162 nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a very little bit of butter warmed, till the patties. Sweet Patties. Chop the meat of a boiled calf’s foot, of which you use the liquor for jelly, two apples,one ounce of orange and lemon-peel candied, and some fresh peel and juice ; mix with them half a nutmeg grated, the yolk of ar egg, a spoonful of brandy, and tour ounces of currants washed and dried. Bake in small patty-pans. Patties resemhling Mince Pies. Chop the kidney and fat of cold veal, apple, orange, and lemon-peel candied, and fresh currants, a little wine, two or three cloves, a little brandy, and bit of sugar. Bake as before. Apple Puffs. Pare the fruit, and either stew them in a stone jar on a hot hearth, or bake them. When cold, mix the pulp of the apple with sugar and lemon-peel shred fine, vaKing as little of the apple-juice as you can. Bake them in thin paste, in a quick oven; a quarter of an hour will do them, if small. Orange or quince-marma- lade, is a great improvement. Cinnamon pounded, or orange flower water, in change. Lemon Puffs. Bait and sift a pound and a quarter of double-refined sugar; grate the rind of two large lemons, and mix it well with the sugar; then beat the whites of three new-laid eggs a great while, add them to the sugar and peel, and beat it for an hour; make it up in any shape you please, and bake it on paper put on tin-plates, in a moderate oven. Don’t remove the paper till cold. Oiling the paper will make it come off with ease. Cheese Puffs. Cream cticese-curd from the whey, and beat halfapint basin of it fine in a mortar, with a spoonful and a half of floui, three eggs, but only one white, a spoonful of o ange-flower w'ater, a quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar toI()3 PASTRY. make it pretty sweet. Lay a little of this paste, in small very round cakes, on a tin plate. If the oven is hot, a quarter of an hour will bake them. Serve with pudding-sauce. Excellent light Puffs. Mix two spoonfuls of flour, a little grated lemon-peel, some nutmeg,halfa spoonful of brandy,alittle loaf-sugar, and one egg; then fry it enough, but not brown ; beat it in a mortar with five eggs, whites and yolks ; put a quantity of lard in a frying-pan, and when quite hot, drop a desert-spoonfifl of batter at a time ; turn as they brovui. Serve them immediately, with sweet sauce. To prepare Venison for Pasty. Take the bones out, then season and beat the meat, lay it into a stone jar in large pieces, pour upon it some plain drawn-beef gravy, but not a strong one, lay the bones on the top, then set the jar in a water-bath, that is a sauce- pan of water over the fire, simmer three or four hours ^ then leave it in a cold place till next day. Remove the cake of fat, lay the meat in handsome pieces on the dish ; if not sufficiently seasoned, add more pepper, salt, or pimento, as necessary. Put some of the gravy, and keep the remainder for the time of ser\'ing. If the venison be thus prepared, it w'ill not require so much time to bake, or such a very thick crust as is usual, and by which the under part is seldom done through. Venison Paaty. A shoulder boned makes a good pasty, but it must be beaten and seasoned, and the want of fat supplied by that of a fine well -hungloin of mutton, steeped twenty- four hours in equal parts of rape, vinegar, and port. The shoulder being sinewy, it will be of advantage to rub it well with sugar for two or three days, and when to be used wipe it perfectly clean from it, and the wine. A mistake used to prevail, that venison could not be baked too much; but, as above directed, three or four hours in a slow oven will be sufficient to make it tender.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 164 and the flavour will be preserved. Either in a shoulder or side, the meat must be cut m pieces, and laid with fat between, that it may be proportioned to each person without breaking up the pasty to find it. Lay some pep- per and salt at the bottom of the dish, and some butter; then the meat nicely packed, that it may be sufficiently done, but not lie hollow to harden at the edges. The venison bones should be boiled with some fine old mutton—of this gravy put half a pint cold into the dish, then lay butter on the venison, and cover as well as line the sides with a thick crust, but don’t put one under the meat. Keep the remainder of the gravy till the pasty comes from the oven; put it into the middle by a fun- nel, quite hot, and shake the dish to mix well. It should be seasoned with pepper and salt. To make a Pasty of Beef or Mutton, to eat as well a$ Ve7iison. Bone a small rump or a piece of sirloin of beef, or a fat loin of mutton, after hanging several days. Beat it very well with a rolling-pin ; then rub ten pounds of meat with four ounces of sugar, and pour over it a glass of port, and the same of vinegar. Let it lie five days and nights; wash and wipe the meat very dry, and season it very high with pepper, Jamaica pepper, nut- meg, and salt. Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds put one pound or near of butter, spreading it over the meat. Put a crust round the edges, and cover with a thick one, or it will be overdone before the meat be soaked—it must be done in a slow oven. Set the bones in a pan in the oven, with no more vvater than will cover them, and one glass of port, a little pepper and salt, that you may have a little rich gravy to add to the paste when drawn. .Afite. Sugar gives a greater shortness, and better flavour to meats than salt, too great a quantity of which hardens—and it is quite as great a preservative. Potatoe Pasty. Boil, peel, and mash potatoes as fine as possible ; mixPASTRY. 165 them with salt, pepper, and a good bit of butter. Make a paste; roll it out thin like a large pxiff, and put in . the potatoe ; fold over one half, pinching the edges. Bake in a moderate oven. Cheap and Excellent Custards. Boil three pints of new milk, with a bit of lemon- peel, a bit of cinnamon, two or three bay-leaves, and sweeten it. Meanwhile rub down smooth a large spoon- ful of rice-flour into a cup of cold milk, and mix with it two yolks of eggs well beaten. Take a bason of the boiling milk, and mix with the cold, and then pour that to the boiling; stirring it one way till it begins to thicken, and is just going to boil up; then pour it into a pan, stir it some time, add a large spoonful of peach- water, two tea-spoonfuls of brandy, or a little ratafia. Marbles boiled in custard, or any thing likely to burn, will, by shaking them in the sauce-pan, prevent it from catching. Richer Custard. Boil a pint of milk with lemon-peel and cinnamon ; mix a pint of cream, and the yolks of five eggs well beaten ; when the milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough for the whole ; pour it into the cream, stir- ring it well; then give the custard a simmer till of a proper thickness. Don’t let it boil; stir the whole time oneway; season as above. If to be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream to the eggs. Baked Custard. Boil one pint of cream, half a pint of milk ; with mace, cinnamon, and lemon-peel, a little of each. When cold, mix the yolks of three eggs; sweeten and make your cups or paste nearly full. Bake them ten minutes. Lemon Custards. Beat the yolks of eight eggs till they are as white as milk; then put to them a pint of boiling water, the rinds of two lemons grated, and the iuice sweetened to yourDOMliSTIC COOKERY. m taste. Stir it on the fire till thick enough ; then add a large glass of rich wine, and half a glass of brandy; give the whole one scald, and put it in cups, to be eaten cold. Almond Custard. Blanch and beat four ounces cf almonds fine with a spoonful of water; beat a pint of cream with two spoon- fuls of rose water, and put them to the yolks of four eggs, and as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet; then add the almonds; stir it all over a slow fire till it is of a proper thickness; but don’t boil. Pour it into cups. Cheesecakes. Strain the whey from the curd of two quarts of milk ; when rather dry, crumble it through a coarse sieve, and mix with six ouncesoffresh butter, one ounce of pounded blanched almonds,a little orange-flower water,halfaglass of raisin wine, a grated biscuit, four ounces of currants, some nutmeg, and cinnamon, in fine powder, and beat all the above with three eggs, and half a pint of cream, till quite light; then fill the pattypans three parts full. A plainer sort. Turn three quarts of milk to curd, break it, and drain the whey: when dry, break it in a pan, with two ounces of butler, till perfectly smooth ; put to it a pint and a half of thin cream, or good milk, and add sugar, cin- namon, nutmeg, and three ounces of currants. Cheesecakes, another way. Mix the curd of three quarts of milk, a pound of cur- rants, tw'elve ounces of Lisbon sugar, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, ditto of nutmeg, the peel of one lemon chopped so fine that it becomes a paste, the yolks of eight and whites of six eggs, a pint of scalded cream, and a glass of brandy. Put a light thin puff-paste in the pattypans, and three parts fill them. Lemon Cheesecakes. Mix four ounces of sifted lump-sugar, and four ounces of butter, and gently melt it; then add the yolks of two167 PASTRY. and the white of one egg, the rind of three lemons shred fine, and the juice of one and a half, one Savoy biscuit, some blanched almonds pounded, three spoon- fuls of brandy ; mix well, and put in paste made as fol- lows : eight ounces of flour, six ounces of butter, two thirds of which mix with the flour first, then wet it with six spoonfuls of water, and roll the remainder in. Another way.—Boil two large lemons, or three small ones, and after squeezing, pound them well to- gether in a mortar, with four ounces of loaf-sugar, the yolks of six eggs, and eight ounces of fresh butter. Fill the pattypans half full. Orange cheesecakes are done the same way, only you must boil the peel in two or three waters to take out the bitterness, or make them of orange marmalade well beaten in a mortar. Orange Cheesecakes. When you have blanched half a pound of almonds, beat them very fine,with orange-flower water,and halfa pound of fine sugar beaten and sifted, a pound of butter that has been melted carefully without oiling, and which must be nearly cold before you use it; then beat the yolks often, and whites of four eggs; pound two candied oranges, and a fresh one with the bitterness boiled out, in a mor- tar till as tender as marmalade, without any lumps ; and beat the whole together and put into pattypans. Potatoe Cheesecakes. Boil six ounces of potatoes, and four ounces of lemon-peel; beat the latter in a marble mortar with four ounces of sugar, then add the potatoes, beaten, and four ounces of butter melted in a little cream. When well mixed, let it stand to grow cold. Put crust in pattypans, and rather more than half fill them. Bake in a quick oven half an hour, sifting some double refined sugar on them when going to the oven.—This quantity will make a dozen. Almond Cheesecakes. Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, and a few168 DOMESTIC COOKERY. bitter, with a spoonful of water ; then add foiir ounces of sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, and the whites of two eggs well beaten ; mix all as quick as possible ; put into very small pattypans, and bake in a pretty warm oven under twenty minutes. Another way.—Blanch and pound four ounces of al- monds, with a little orange-flower, or rose-water; then stir in the yolks of six and whites of three eggs, well beaten, five ounces of butter warmed, the peel of a lemon grated, and a little of the juice ; sweeten with fine Lisbon sugar. When well mixed, bake in a deli- cate paste, in small pans. Another way.—Press the whey from as much curd as will make two dozen small ones; then put it on the back of a sieve, and with half an ounce of butter rub it through with the hack of a spoon ; put to it six yolks, and three whites of eggs, and a few bitter almonds pounded with as much sugar as will make the curd properly sweet: mix with it the rind of a lemon'grated, and a glass of brandy. Put a pufi'-paste into the pans, and ten minutes will bake them. Dough Nuts. Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour, then add five ounces of sugar, two eggs, about a desert spoonful of yeast, and sufficient milk to make it into a stiff paste. Let it stand to rise, then roll it out, and ciit it into shapes, with a paste cutter, and boil them in lard, till they are of a nice brown color. A Tipsy Cake, Put a sponge cake into a deep china or glass dish, pourround it some white wine (raisin is very suitable,) and a wine glass of brondy. Let the cakes soak up the wine, and then strew sifted sugar over it, and pour in the dish a rich thick custard. Ornament the top of the cake by sticking a light flower in the centre, or bits of clear currant jelly, or blanch and split somePASTRY. 168* sweet almonds, and stick them thickly over the cake. Royal Paste, called “ Au Choux." This paste is the basis of many sorts of pastry ; it is itsed to mix an infinite number of second course dishes of various forms, and of different denomina- tions. Take a stew-pan large enough to contain four quarts of water, pour half a pint of water into it ■with a quarter of a pound or a little more of fresh butter, two ounces of sugar, a little salt, and the peel of a lemon ; let the whole boil till the butter is entirely melted. Then take some very fine dry flour and shake it through a sieve. Take the lemon-peel out with a ladle, and throw a handful of flour into the preparation while boiling; take care, however, not to put more flour than the liquor can soak up. Stir with a wooden spoon till the paste can easily be detached from the stew-pan and then take it off the fire. Ne.xt break an egg into this paste, and mix it well; then break a second, which also mix ; do not put more eggs than the paste can absorb, but you must be careful not to make this preparation too liquid. It is almost certain, that about five or six eggs will be wanted for the above quantity ; then form them en choux, by which is meant, in the shape of a ball, an inch in circumference. As this paste swells very much, you must dress it accordingly, putting the choux on a baking sheet, at an inch distant from each other, in order that they may undergo a greater effect in the oven. Brush them over as usual with the dorure or egg wash, to which has been added a little milk. Put them into an oven moderately hot, but do not open the oven till they are quite baked, otherwise they would flatten, and all attempts to make them rise again would be useless: next dry them. Sometimes you may glaze them; at other times you may send them up without being glazed.169 DOMLSTIC COOKERY. To detach them from the baking sheet, ai)ply the .sharp edge of your knife, and take them off gently. Then make a small opening on the side, into which put, with a teaspoon, such sweetmeats as you think proper, and send them up dished en buisson. N.B. Be cautious to smell every egg, before you use it, for a bad one would spoil the whole. This elegant receipt is extracted from ‘ The French Cook,’ by Mr. Ude. PART VIL VEGETABLES. Observations on dressing Vegetables. Vegetables should be carefully cleaned from in- sects, and nicely washed. Boil them in plenty of water, and drain them the moment they are done enough. If overboiled, they lose their beauty and crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dress them with meat; which is wrong, except carrots with boiling beef. To boil Vegetahles green. Be sure the water boils when you put them in. Make them boil very fast. Don’t cover, but watch them; and if the water lias not slackened, you may be sure they are done when they begin to sink, 'I’hen take them out immediately, or the colour will change. Hard water, especially if chalybeate, spoils the colour of such vegetables as should be green. To boil them green in hard water., put a tea-spoon- ful of salt of wormwood into the water when it boils, before the vegetables are put in. Vegetable Marroio. To boil or stew. 1 his exeellent vegetable maybe boiled as asparagus.VEGETABLES. 169* V\ hen boiled, divide it lengthways into two, and serve it up on toast accompanied by melted butter; or when nearly boiled, divide it as above, and stew gently in gravy like cucumbers. Care should be taken to choose young ones not exceeding six inches in length. To keep green Peas. Shell, and put them into a kettle of water when it boils; give them two or three walms only, and pour them into a colander. When the water drains off, turn them out on a dresser covered with cloth, and pour them on another cloth to dry perfectly. Then bottle them in wide-mouthed bottles; leaving only room to pour clarified mutton-suet upon them an inch thick, and for the cork. Rosin it down; and keep it in the cellar or in the earth, as will be directed for gooseberries under the head of keeping for Winter.— When they are to be used, boil them till tender, with a bit of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a bit of mint. Another tvay, as practised in the emperor of Russia's kitchen. When they are to be used, let them lie an hour in water; then set them on with cold water and a bit of butter, and boil them till ready. Put a sprig of dried mint to boil with them. Boiled Peas Should not be overdone, nor in much water. Chop some scalded mint to garnish them, and stir a piece of butter in with them. To stew green Peas. Put a quart of peas, a lettuce and an onion both sliced, a bit of butter, pepper, salt, and no more water than hangs round the lettuce from washing. Stew them two hours very gently. When to be served, beat up an egg, and stir it into them: or a bit of flour and butter. Some think a tea-spoonfid of white powdered sugar is an improvement. Gravy may be added, but thenD iMESTIC COOKERY. there will be less of the flavour of the peas. Chop a. bit of mint, and stew in them. To stew old Peas, Stew them in water all night, if not fine boilers; otherwise only half an hour: put them into water enough just to cover them, with a good bit of butter, or a piece of beef or pork. Stew them very gently till the peas are soft, and the meat is tender ; if it is not salt meat, add salt and a little pepper. Serve them round the meat. To dress Artichokes. Trim a few of the outside leaves off, and cut the stalk even. If young, half an hour will boil them. They are better for being gathered two or three days first. Serve them with melted butter, in as many small cups as there are artichokes, to help with ench. Artichoke Bottoms. If dried, they must be soaked, then stewed in weak gravy, and served with or without forcemeat in each. Or they may be boiled in milk, and served with cream- sauce; or added to ragouts, French pies, &c. Jerusalem Artichokes Must be taken up the moment they are done, or they will be too soft. They may be boiled plain, or served with white fricasstee-sauce. To stew Cucumbers. Slice them thick; or halve and divide them into twc engths ; strew some salt and pepper, and sliced onions : add a little broth, or a bit of butter. Simmer very slowly; and before serving, if no butter was in before, put some, and a little flour; or if there was butter in, only a little flour; unless it wants richness. Another may.—Slice the onions, and ciitthe cucum- bers large ; flour them, and fry them in some butter; then pour some good broth or gravy, ond stew them till done enough. Skim off the fat.VEGETABLES. 171 To stew Onions- Peel six large onions, fry gently of a fine brown, but do not blacken them ; then put them into a small stew-pan with a little weak gravy, pepper, and salt; cover and stew two hours gently. They should be lightly fioured at first. Roast Onioyis Should be done with all the skins on. They eat well alone, with only salt and cold butter; or with roast potatoes, or with beet roots. 7 0 stew Celery. Wash six heads and strip off their outer leaves, either halve or leave them whole, according to their size ; cut into lengths of four inches. Put them into a stew-pan v/ith a cup of broth, or weak white gravy ; stew' till tender, then add two spoonfuls of cream, and a little flour and butter seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and simmer all together. To boil Caulijlowers. Choose those that are close and white, cut off the green leaves, and look carefully that there are no cater- pillars about the stalk. Soak an hour in cold water, then boil them in milk and water, and take care to skim the sauce-pan, that not the least foulness may fall on the flower. It must be served very white, and rather crimp. Cauliflower in white Sauce. Half boil it, then cut it into handsome pieces, and lay them in a stew-pan with a little broth, a bit of mace, a little salt, and a dust of white pepper ; simmei half an hour, then put a little cream, butter, and flour, shake and simmer a few minutes, and serve. To dress Cauliflower and Parmesan. Roil a cauliflower, drain it on a sieve, and cut the stalk so that the flower will stand upright about two inches above the dish. Put it into a stew-pan with a I'ittle white sauce, let it stew till done enough, which will be but a few minutes ; then dish it with the sauce round, and put Parmesan grated over it. Brown it with a salamander.DOMESTIC COOKERY To dress Brocoli. Cut the heads with short stalks, and pare the tough skin off them. Tie the small shoots into bunches, and boil them a shorter time than the heads. Some salt must be put into the water. Serve with or without toast Spinach Requires great care in washing and picking it. When that is done, throw it into a sauce-pan that will just hold it, sprinkle it with a little salt, and cover close. The pan must be set on the fire, and well shaken. When done, beat the spinach well with a small bit of butter: it must come to table pretty dry, and looks well if pressed into a tin mould in the fonn of a large leaf, which is sold at the tin shops. A spoonful of cream is an improvement. To dress Beans. Boil tender, with a bunch of parsley, which must be chopped to serve with them. Bacon or pickled pork must be served to eat w'ith, but not boiled with them. Fricasseed hf^mdsor Beans. When grown large, but not mealy, boil, blanch, and lay them in a w'hite sauce ready hot; just heat them through in it, and serve. If any are not of a fine green, do not use them for this dish. French Beans. String, and cut them into four or eight; the last looks best. Lay them in salt and water, and when Hie sauce-pan boils put them in with some salt. As soon as they are done serve them immediately, to pre- serve the green colour.—Or when half-done drain the water off, and put them into two spoonfuls of broth strained ; and add a little cream, butter, and flour, to finish doing them. To stew red Cabbage. Slice a small, or half a large red cabbage, wash and put it into a sauce-pan with pepper, salt, no water but what hangs about it, and a piece of butter. Stew till quite tender; and when going to serve, add two or173 VEGETABLES. cViree spoonfuls of vinegar, and give one boil over the fire. Serve it for cold meat, or with sausages on it. Jlnother way.—Shred the cabbage, wash it, and put it over a slow fire, with slices of onion, pepper and salt, and a little plain gravy. When quite tender, and a few minutes before serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with flour, and two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil up. Another.—Cut the cabbage very thin, and put it into the stew-pan with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce of butter at the bottom, half a pint of broth, and a gill of vinegar. Let it stew covered three hours. When it is very tender add a little more broth, salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and boil them all till the liquor is wasted; then put it into the dish, and lay fried sausages on it. Mushrooms. The cook should be perfectly acquainted with the different sorts of things called by this name by igno- rant people, as the death of many persons has been occasioned by carelessly using the poisonous kinds. 'I'he eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white. As the size increases the under part gradually opens, and shews a fringy fnr of a very fine salmon-colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise w’hether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and middle. Those that have a white or yellow fur should be care- fully avoided, though many of them have the same smell (but not so strong) as the right sort. To stew Mushrooms. The large buttons are best, and the small flaps while the fur is still red. Rub the large buttons witli salt and a bit of flannel, cut out the fur, and take off the skin from the others. Sprinkle them with salt, and put into a stew-pan with some pepper-corns; simmer slowly till done, then put a small bit of butter (i171 DOMESTIC COOKEUT. and flour, and two spoonfuls of cream; give them one boil, and serve with sippets of bread. To stew Sorrel for Fricandeau and roast Meat. Wash the sorrel, and put it into a silver vessel, or stone jar, with no more water than hangs to the leaves. Simmer it as slow as you can, and when done enough put a hit of butter, and beat it well. Fre^ich Salad. Chop three anchovies, a shalot, and some parsley, small; put them into a bowd with two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, one of oil, a little mustard, and salt. When well mixed, add by degrees some cold roast or boiled meat in very thin slices ; put in a few at a time, not exceeding two or three inches long. Shake them in the seasoning, and then put more; cover the bowl close, and let the salad be prepared three hours before it is to be eaten. Garnish with parsley, and a few slices of the fat. Lobster Salad. Make a salad, and put some of the red part of the lobster to it, cut. This forms a pretty contrast to the white and green of the vegetables. i)o not put much oil, as shell-fish absorb the sharpness of the vinegar. Serve in a dish, not a bowl. To boil Potatoes. Set them on a fire, without paring them, in cold water; let them half boil, then throw some salt in, and a pint of cold water, and let them boil again till almost done. Pour off the water, and put a clean cloth over them, and then the sauce-pan cover, and set them by the fire to steam till ready. Many persons prefer steamers. Potatoes look best when the skin is peeled, not cut. Do new potatoes the same, but be careful they are , taken off in time, or they will be watery. Before diT-ssiiig, i rub o(f the skin with a cloth and salt, and then wash, To broil Potatoes. Parboil, then slice and broil them. Or parboil, and then set them whole on the gridiron over a very slowVEGUTABLliS. 175 fire, and when tlioronghly done send them up with their skins on. This last way is practised in many Irish families. To roast Potatoes. Half boil, take off the thin peel, and roast them of a beautiful brown. To fry Potatoes. Take the skin off raw potatoes, slice and fry them, either in butter or thin batter. To mash Potatoes. Boil the potatoes, peel them, and break them to paste; then to two pounds of them add a quarter of a pint of milk, a little salt, and two ounces of butter, and stir it all well over the fire. Either serve them in this manner, or place them on the dish in a form, and then brown the top w'ith a salamander, or in scallops. Carrots Require a good deal of boiling. When young, wipe off the skin after they are boiled; when old, boil them with the salt meat, and scrape them first. To stew Carrots. Half boil, then nicely scrape, and slice them into a stew-pan. Put to them half a tea-cupful of any weak broth, some pepper and salt, and half a cupful of cream; simmer them till they are very tender, but not broken. Before serving rub a very little flour with a bit of butter, and warm up with them. If approved, chopped parsley may be added ten minutes before served. To mash Parsnips. Boil them tender, scrape, then mash them into a stew-pan with a little cream, a good piece of butter, and pepper and salt. Fricassee of Parsnips. Boil in milk till they are soft, then cut them length- ways into bits tivo or three inches long, and simmer in a white sauce, made of two spoonfuls of broth, a bit of mace, half a cupful of cream, a bit of butter, and some flour, pepper, and. salt.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 176 To dress Chardoons. Cut them into pieces of six inches long, and put on a string; boil till tender, and have ready a piece of butter in a pan ; flour, fry them brown, and serve. Or tie them into bundles, and serve as asparagus boiled, on toast, and pour butter over. Or boil, and then heat them up in fricassee-sauce. Or boil in salt and water, dry, then dip them into butter, and fry them. Serve with melted butter. Or sterv them: boil as directed in the last page ; toss them up with a brown or white gi'avy, add Cayenne, ketchup, and salt. Thicken with a bit of butter and flour. Beet Boots Make a very pleasant addition to winter-salad, of which they may agreeably form a full half, instead of being only used to ornament it. This root is cool- ing, and very wholesome. It is extremely good boiled, and sliced with a small quantity of onion ; or stewed with whole onions, large or small, as follows : Boil the beet tender with the skin on, slice it into a stew-pan with a little broth, and a spoonful of vinegar; simmer till the gravy is tinged with the colour, then put it into a small dish, and make a round of the button-onions, first boiled till tender; take off the skin just before serving, and mind they are quite hot and clear. Or roast three large onions, and peel off the outer skins till they look clear, and serve the beet root stewed round them. If beet root is in the least broken before dressed it parts with its colour, and looks ill. Frying Herbs, as dressed in Staffordshire. Clean and drain a good quantity of spinach-leaves, two large handfuls of parsley, and a handful of green onions. Chop the parsley and onions, and sprinkle them among the spinach. Set them all on to stew with some salt, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut, shakeVEGETABLES. 177 the pan when it begins to grow warm, and let it be closely covered over a slow stove till done enough. It is served with slices of broiled calves’-liver, small rashers of bacon, and eggs fried; ihe latter on the herbs, the other in a separate dish. Sea Cale Must be boiled very white, and served on toast like asparagus. Laver. This is a plant that grows on the rocks near the sea in the west of England, and is sent in pots prepared for eating. Set some of it on a dish over a lamp, with a bit of butter, and the squeeze of a Seville orange. Stir it till hot. It is eaten with roast meat, and is a great sweet- ener of the blood. It is seldom liked at first, but people become extremely fond of it by habit. To preserve several Vegetables to eat in Winter. For French beans, pick them young, and throw into a little wooden keg a layer of them three inches deep; then sprinkle them with salt, put another layer of beans, and do the same as high as you think proper, alter- nately with salt, but not too much of this. Lay over them a plate, or cover of wood, that will go into the keg, and put a heavy stone on it. A pickle will rise from the beans and salt. If they are too salt, the soaking and boiling will not be sufficient to make them pleasant to the taste. When they are to be eaten, cut, soak, and boil them as if fresh. Carrots, Parsnips, and Beet-roots, should be kept in layers of dry sand for winter-use ; and neither they nor potatoes should be cleared from the earth. Pota- toes should be carefully kept from frost. Store-onions keep best hungup in a dry cold room. Parsley should be cut close to the stalks; and dried in a warm room, or on tins in a very cool oven : it pre- serves its flavour and colour, and is very useful in winter. Artichoke-hottoins, slowly dried, should be kept ini)OMESTIC COOKERY. 1 7B paper bags; and Truffles, Morels, Leynon-peel, &c. in a dry place, ticketted. Small close Cahbar/es, laid on a stone floor before the frost sets in, will blanch and be very fine, after many weeks keeping. PICKLES, Rules to he observed icilh Pickles. Keep them closely covered ; and have a wooden spoon, with holes, tied to each jar ; all mettle being improper. They should be well kept from the air; the large jars be seldom opened ; and small ones, for the different pickles in use, should be kept for common supply, into which what is not eaten may be returned, and the top closely covered. Acids dissolve the lead that is in the tinning of sauce-pans. When necessary to boil vinegar, do it in a stone jar on the hot hearth. Pickles should never be put into glazed jars, as salt and vinegar penetrate the glaze, which is poisonous. Lemon Pickle. Wipe six lemons, cut each into eight pieces ; put on them a pound of salt, six large cloves of garlick, two ounces of horse-radish sliced thin, likewise of cloves, mace, nutmeg, and Cayenne, a quarter of an ounce each, and two ounces of flour of mustard ; to these put two quarts of vinegar. Boil a quarter of an hour in a w'ell-tinned sauce-pan ; or, which is better, do it in a strong jar, in a kettle of boiling water: or set the jar on the hot hearth till done. Set the jar by, and stir it daily for six weeks ; keep the jar close covered. Put it into small bottles. Indian Pickle. Lay a pound of w'hite ginger in water one night; then scrape, slice, and lay it in salt in a pan till the other ingredients shall be ready. Peel, slice, and salt a pound of garlick three days, then put it in the sun to dry. Salt and dry long pepper in the same way.PICKLES. 175 Prepare various sorts of vegetables thus; Quarter small white cabbages, salt three days, squeeze, and set them in the sun to dry. Cauliflowes cut in their branches ; take off the green from radishes ; cut celery in three-inch lengths; ditto young French beans whole, likewise the shoots of elder, which will look like bamboo. Apples and cucumbers, choose of the least seedy sort; cut them in slices, or quarters, if not too large. All must be salted, drained, and dried in the sun, except the latter; over w’hich you must pour boiling vinegar, and in twelve hours drain them, btit no salt must be used. Put the spice, garlick, a quarter of a pound of mustard- seed, and as much vinegar as you think enough for the quantity you are to pickle, into a large stone jar, and one ounce of turmeric, to be ready against the vege- tables shall be dried. When they are ready, observe the following directions : Put some of them into a tw’o- quart stone jar, and pour over them one quart of boil- ing vinegar. Next day take out those vegetables; and w'hen drained, put them into a large stock jar, and boiling the vinegar, pour it over some more of the ve- getables; let them lie anight, and do as above. Thus proceed till you have cleansed each set from the dust which must inevitably fall on them by being so long in doing; then, to every gallon of vinegar put two ounces of flour ofmustanl, mixing, by degrees, with a little of it boiling hot. I'he whole of the vinegar should have been previously scalded, but let to be cool before it was put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. This pickle will not be ready for a year ; but you may make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, only by giving the cauliflower one scald in water, after salting and dry- ing as above, but without the preparative vinegar ; then pour the vinegar, that has the spice and garlick, boil- ing hot over. If at anytime it be found that the vege- tables have not swelled properly, boiling the piclde, and pouring it over them hot, will plump them.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 180 English Bamboo. Cut the large young shoots of elder, which put out in the middle of May, (the middle stalks are most tender;) peel off theoutward peel, or skin, and lay them ^ in salt and water verj' strong, one night. Dry them piece by piece in a cloth. Have in readiness a pickle thus made and boiled: to a quart of vinegar put an ounce of white pepper, an ounce of sliced ginger, a lit- tle mace and pimento, and pour boiling on the elder shoots, in a stone jar; stop close, and set by the fire two hours, turning the jar often, to keep it scalding hot. If not geeen when cold, strain off the liquor, and pour boiling hot again; keep it hot as before. Or, if you intend to make Indian pickle, the above shoots are a great improvement to it; in which case you need only pour boiling vinegar and mustard-seed on them ; and keep them till your jar of pickles shall be ready to receive them. The cluster of elder-flowers before it opens, makes a delicious pickle to eat with boiled mut- ton. It is only done by pouring boiling vinegar over. Melon Mangoes. There is a particular sort for this purpose, which thegardeners know. Cuta squaresmall piece out of one side, and through that take out the seeds, and mix with them mustard-seeds and shred garlick; stuff the melon as full as the space will allow, and replace the square piece. Bind it up with a small new pack-thread. Boil a good quantity of vinegar, to allow for wasting, with pepper, salt, ginger, and pour boiling hot over the mangoes four successive days ; the last, put flour of mustard, and scraped horse-radish, into the vinegarjust is it boils up. Stop close. Observe that there is plenty of vinegar. All pickles are spoiled if not well covered. Mangoes should be done soon after they are gathered. Large cucumbers, called green turley, prepared as mangoes, are excellent, and come sooner into eating. Mark, the greater number of times boiling vinegar is poured over either sort, the sooner it will be ready.181 PICKLES. Pickled Lemons. They should be small, and with thick rind ; rub them with a piece of flannel; then slit them half down in four quarters, but not through to the pulp: fill the slits with salt hard pressed in, set them upright in a pan for four or five days, until the salt melts; turn them thrice a day in their own liquid, until tender ; make enough pickle to cover them, of rape vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper, and ginger; boil and skim it; when cold, put it to the lemons, with two ounces of mustard-seed, and two cloves of garlic to six lemons. When the lemons are used the pickle will be useful in fish or other sauces. Olives Are of three kinds, Italian, Spanish, and French, of different sizes and flavour ; each sort should be firm, though some are most fleshy. Preserve them from the air. Pickled Onions. In the month of September, choose the small white round onions, take oft’the brown skin, have ready a very nice tin stew-pan of boiling water, throw in many onions as will cover the top; as soon as they look clear on the outside, take them up as quick as possible with a slice, and lay them on a clean cloth ; cover them close with another, and scald some more, and so on. Let them lie to be cold, then put them in a jar, or glass or wide-mouth bottles, and pour over them the best white wine vinegar, just hot but not boiling. When cold cover them. Should the outer skin shrivel, peel it off. They must look quite clear. To pickle Cucumbers and Onions sliced. Cut them in slices, and sprinkle salt over them: next day drain them for five or six hours; then put them into a stone jar, pour boiling vinegar over them, and keep them in a warm place. The slices should be thick. Eepeat the boiling vinegar, and stop them up again in-DOMESTIC COOKERY. \82 stantly; and so on till green ; the last time put pepper and ginger. Keep in small stone jars. To fickle young Cucumbers. Choose nice young gerkins, spread them on dishes, salt them, and let them lie a week—drain them, and, putting them in a jar, pour boiling vinegar over them. Set them near the fire, covered with plenty of vine-leaves; if they do not become a tolerable good green, pour the vinegar into another jar, set it over the hot hearth, and when it boils, pour it over them again, covering with fresh leaves; and thus do till they are of as good a colour as )mu wish; — but as it is now known that the very fine green pickles are made so by using brass or bell-metal vessels, which, when vinegar is put into them, become highly poisonous, few people like to eat them. To pickle Walnuts. When they will bear a pin to go into then, put a brine of salt and water boiled, and strong enough to bear an egg on them, being quite cold first. It must be well skimmed while boiling. Let them soak six days ; then cliange the brine, let them stand six more ; then drain them, and pour over them in the jar a pickle of the best white wine vinegar, with a good quantity of pepper, pimento, ginger, mace, cloves, mustard-seed, and horse-radish; all boiled together, but cold. To every hundred of walnuts put six spoonfuls of mustard-seed, and two or three heads of garlick or shalot, but the latter is least strong. Thus done, they will be good for several years, if close covered. The air will soften them. They will not be fit to eat under six months. The pickle will serve as good ketchup, when the walnuts are used. Another way.—Put them into a jar, cover them with the best vinegar cold, let them stand four months; then pour ofi' the pickle and boil as much fresh vinegar as will cover the walnuts, adding to every three quarts of vinegar one quarter pound of best Durham mustard.183 PICKLES. Stick of horse-radish sliced, one half-ounce of black pepper, one half-ounce of cloves, one ounce of ginger, one half-ounce of allspice, and a good handful of salt— pour the whole, boiling hot, upon the walnuts, and cover them close; they will be tit for use in three or four months. You may add two ounces of garlick, or shalot, but not boiled in the vinegar. Of the pickle in which the walnuts stood for the first four months, you may make excellent ketchup. An excellent waxj to Pickle Mushroojtis, to preserve the Jlavoiir. Buttons must be rubbed with a bit of flannel and salt; and from tbe larger, take out the red inside, for when they are hlQck they will not do, being too old. Throw a little salt over, and put them into a stew-pan with some mace and pepper; as the liquor comes out shake them well, and keep them over a gentle fire till all of it be dried into them again; then put as much vinegar into the pan as will cover them, give it one warm, and turn all into a glass or stone jar. They will keep two years, and are delicious. T0 pickle Red Cabbage, Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layer with salt; let it drain two days, then put it into a jar, and pour boiling vinegar enough to cover, and put a few slices of red beet-root. Observe to choose the purple red cabbage. Those who like the flavour of spice will boil it with the vinegar. Cauliflower cut in branches, and thrown in after being salted, will look of a beautiful red. Mushroom Ketchup. Take tbe largest broad mushrooms, break them into an earthen pan, strew salt over, and stir themnow arid then for three days. Then let them stand for twelve, till there is a thick scum over; strain, and boil the liquor with Jamaica and black peppers, mace, ginger, a clove or two, and some mustard seed. When cold, bottle it, and tie a bladder over the cork; in three months boil184 DOMESTIC COOKERY. it again with some fresh spice, and it will then keep a twelvemonth. Mushroom Ketchup, another icay. Take a stew-pan full of the large-flap mushrooms, that are not worm-eaten, and the skins and fringe of those you have pickled, throw a handful of salt among them, and ^et them by a slow fire; they will produce a great deal of Mquor, which you must strain; and put to it 4 ounces of shalots, two cloves of garlic, a good deal of pepper, ginger, mace, cloves, and a few bay-leaves—boil and skim very well. AVhen cold, cork close. In two months boil it u]) again with a little fresh spice and a stick of horse-radish, and it will thenkeep the year; whichmush- room ketchup rarely does, if not boiled a second time. Walnut Ketchup of the finest sort. Boil or simmer a gallon of the expressed juice of walnuts when they are tender, and skim it well; then put in two pounds of anchovies, bones and liquor, ditto of shalots, one ounce of cloves, ditto of mace, ditto of pepper, and one clove of garlic. Let all simmer till the shalots sink; then put the liquor into a pan till cold; bottle and divide the spice to each. Cork closely, and tie a bladder over. It will keep twenty years, and is not good the first. Be very careful to express the juice at home ; for it is rarely unadul- terated, if bought. Some people make liquor of the outside shell when the nut is ripe; but neither the flavour nor the colour is then so fine. Cockle Ketchup. Open the cockles, scald them in their own liquor ; add a little water when the liquor settles, if you have not enough ; strain through a cloth, then season with every savoury spice; and if for brown sauce, add port, anchovies, and garlic—if for white, omit these, and put a glass of sherry, lemon-juice and peel, mace, nutmeg, and white pepper. If for brown, burn a bit of sugar for colouring. It is better to have cockles enough than to add water; and they are cheap.SWEET DISHES. 185 To keep Capei'S.—Add fresh vinegar that has been scalded, and become cold—and tie them close, to keep out the air, which makes them soft. PART VIIL SWEET DISHES, PRESERVES, SWEET MEATS, &c. SWEET DISHES. Buttered Rice. WASH and pick some rice, drain, and put it with some new milk, enough just to swell it, over the fire ; when tender, pour off"the milk, and add a bit of butter, a little sugar, and pounded cinnamon. Shake it, that it do not burn, and serve. Souffle of Rice and Apple, Blanch Carolina rice, strain it, and set it to boil in milk, with lemon-peel and a bit of cinnamon. Let it boil till the rice is dry ; then cool it, and raise a rim three inches high round the dish; having egged the dish, where it is put, to make it stick. Then egg the rice all over. Fill the dish half way up with a marmalade of apples: have ready the whites of four eggs beaten to a fine froth, and put them over the marmalade; then sift fine sugar over it, and set it in the oven, which should be warm enough to give it a beautiful colour. Snow Balls. Swell rice in milk, and strain it olT, and having pared and cored apples, put the rice round them, tying each up in a cloth. Put a bit of lemon-peel, a clove, or cinnamon in each, and boil them well. Lent Potatoes. Beat three or four ounces of almonds, and three or four bitter, when blanched, putting a little orange-llower water to prevent oiling; add eight ounces of butter, four eggs well beaten and strained, halfa glass of raisin wine, and sugar to your taste. Beat all well till quite smooth, and grate in three Savoy biscuits. Make balls of the above with a little flour, the size of a chesnut; throw them into a stew-pan of boiling lard, and boil them of a beautiful yellow brown. Drain them on a sieve. Serve sweet sauce in a boat, to eat with them.DOMESTIC COOKERY. A Taiisey. Beat seven eggs, yolks and whites separately ; add a pint of cream, near the same of spinach-juice, and a little tansey-juice gained by pounding in a stone mortar, a quarter of a pound of Naples biscuit, sugar to taste, a glass of white wine, and some nutmeg. Set all in a sauce-pan, just to thicken, over the fire; then put it into a dish, lined with paste, to turn out, and bake it. Puits cT Amour. Cut a fine rich puff-paste rolled thin, with tin shapes made on purpose, one size less than another, in a pyra- midical form, and lay them so ; then bake in a moderate oven, that the paste may be done sufficiently, but very pale. Lay different coloured sweetmeats on the edges. A very nice Dish of Macaroni dressed sweet. Boil two ounces in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon- peel, and a good bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size without breaking. Lay them on a custard-dish, and pour a custard over them hot. Serve cold. Floating Island. Mix three half pints of thin cream with a quaider of a pint of raisin wine, a little lemon-juice, orange-flower water, and sugar: put it into a dish for the middle of the table, and put on the cream a froth, as will be di- rected in page 195, which may be made of raspberry or currant jelly. Mnothcr may.—Scald acodlin before it be ripe, or any sharp apple; pulp it through a sieve. Beat the whites of two eggs with sugar, and a spoonful of orange-flower water ; mix in by degrees the pulp, and beat all together until you have a lage quantity of froth; serve it on a raspberry cream; or you may colour the froth with beet-root, raspberry, currant-jelly, and set it on a white cream, having given it the flavour of a lemon, sugar and wine, as above ; or, put the froth on a custard. Flummery. Put three large handfuls of very small white oatmeal to steep a day and night in cold water; then pour it offSWEET DISIIEs. clear, and add as much more water, and let it stand the same time. Strain it through a tine hair sieve, and boil till it be as thick as hasty pudding; stirring it well all the time. V/hen first strained, put to it one large spoon- ful of white sugar, and two of orange-flower water. Pour it into shallow dishes; and serve to eat with wine, cyder, milk, or cream and sugar. It is very good. Dutch Flummery, Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half pints of water very gently half an hour; add a pint of white wine, the juice of three, and the thin rind of one lemon, and rub a few lumps of sugar on another lemon to obtain the es- sence, and with them add as much more sugar as shall make it sweet enough ; and having beaten the yolks of seven eggs, give them and the above, when mixed, one scald ; stir all the time, and pour it into a bason ; stir it till half cold; then let it settle, and put it into a melon shape. Rice Flummery. Boil with a pint of new milk, a bit of lemon-peel, and cinnamon; mix with a little cold milk as much rice-flour as will make the whole of a good consistence, sweeten, and add a spoonful of peach-water, or a bitter almond beaten; boil it, observing it don’t burn; pour it into a shape or pint-basin, taking out the spice. When cold, turn the flummery into a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard round ; or put a tea-cupfiil of cream into half a pint of new milk, a glass of white wine, half a lemon squeezed, and sugar. Somersetshire Firmity. To a quarter of ready boiled wheat, put by degrees two quarts of new milk, breaking the jelly, and then four ounces of currants picked clean, and washed ; stir them and boil till they are done. Beat the yolks of three eggs, and a little nutmeg, with two or three spoonfuls of milk; add this to the wheat; stir them together while over the fire; then sweeten, and serve cold in a deep dish. Some persons like it best warm.188 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Curds and Cream. Put three or four pints of milk into a pan a little wa rm, and then add rennet orgallino. When the curd is come, lade it with a saucer into an earthen shape perforated, of any form you please. Fill it up as the whey drains off, without breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only two hours before wanted, it is very light; but those who like it harder, may have it so, by making it earlier, and squeezing it. Cream, milk, or a whip of cream, sugar, wine, and lemon, to be put in the dish, or into a glass bowl, to serve with the curd. Another TVay.—To four quarts ofnew milk warmed, put from a pint to a quart of buttermilk strained, ac- cording to its sourness ; keep the pan covered until the curd be of firmness to cut 3 or 4 times across with a sau- cer, as the whey leaves it; put it into a shape, and fill up until it be solid enough to take the form. Serve with cream plain, ormixed with sugar, wine, and lemon. A Curd Star. Set a quart of new milk upon the fire with two or three blades of mace; and, when read)' to boil, put to it the yolks and whites of nine eggs well beaten, and as much salt as will lie upon a small knife's point. Let it boil till the whey is clear; then drain it in a thin cloth, or hair sieve; season it with sugar, ora little cinnamon, rose-water, orange-flower water, or white wine, to your taste; and put it into a star form, or any other. Let it stand some hours before you turn it into a dish ; then put round it thick cream or custard. Blane-mange, or Blamange. Boil two ounces of isinglass in three halfpints of water half an hour; strain it to a pint and a half of cream ; sweeten it, and add some peach-water, or a few bitter almonds; let it boil once up, and put it into what forms you please. If not to be very stiff, a little less isinglass will do. Observe to let the blamange settle before you tutu it into the forms, or the blacks will remain at the bottom of them, and be on the top of the blamange when taken out of the moulds.SWEET DISHES. 183 J aunemange. Pour a pint of boiling water over 2 oz. of isinglass, and when it is dissolved add three quarters of a pint of white wine, the juice of two oranges, and one lemon, the peel of a lemon shred fine, sweeten this to your taste, and add the yolks of eight eggs, let it simmer gently, strain and pour it into moulds. Turn out next day. A71 excellent Trifle. Lay macaroons and ratafia-drops over the bottom of your dish, and pour in as much raisin wine as they will suck up; which, when they have done, pour on them cold rich custard made with viore erjgs than directed in the foregoing pages, and some rich flour. It must stand two or three inches thick; on that put a layer of rasp- berry jam, and cover the whole with a very high whip made the day before, of rich cream, the whites of two well-beaten eggs, sugar, lemon-peel, and raisin wine, w'ell beat with a whisk, kept only to whip syllabubs and creams. If made the day before used, it has quite a different taste, and is solid and far better. Gooseberry or Apple Trifle. Scald such a quantity of either of these fruits, as, when pidped through a sieve, will make a thick layer at the bottom of your dish; if of apples, mix the rind of half a lemon grated fine; and to both as much sugar as will be pleasant. Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the yolk of one egg ; give it a scald over the fire, and stir it all the time; don't let it boil; add a little sugar only, and let it grow cold. Lay it over tlie apples with a spoon; and then put on it a whip made the day before, as for other Trifle. Chantilly Cake, or Cake Trifle. Bake a rice cake in a mould. When cold, cut it round about two inches from the edge with a sharp knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom. Put in a thick custard, and some tea-spoonfuls of raspberry jam, and then put on a whip. nDOMESTIC COOKEKT. 19l* Gooseber~y Fool. Put the fruit into a stone jar, and some good Lisbon sugar j set the jar on a stove, or in a sauce-pan of water over the fire ; if the former, a large spoonful of water should be added to the fruit. When it is done enough to pulp, press.it through a colander; have ready a suffi- cient quantity of new milk, and a tea-cup of raw cream, boiled together; or an egg instead of the latter, and left to be cold; then sweeten it pretty well with fine Lisbon sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees with it, Apple Fool. Stew apples as directed for gooseberries, and then peel and pulp them. Prepare the milk, kc. and mix as before. Orange Fool. Mix the juice of three Seville oranges, three eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, and sweeten to your taste. Set the whole over a slow fire,, and stir it till it becomes as tliick as good melted butter, but it must not be boiled; then pour it into a dish for eating cold. A Cream, Boil half a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, with two bay-leaves, a bit of lemon-peel, a few almonds beaten to paste, with a drop of water, a little sugar, orange-flower water, and a tea-spoonful of flour, hav- ing been rubbed down with a little cold milk, and mixed with the above. When cold, put a little lemon- juice to the cream, and serve it in cups or lemonade- glasses. An excellent Cream. Whip up three quarters of a pint of very rich cream to a strong froth, wdth some finely scraped lemon-peel, a squeeze of the juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and sugar, to make it pleasant, but not too sweet; lay it on a sieve or in a form, and next day put it on a dish, and ornament it with very light puff-paste biscuits, made in tiu shapes the length of a finger, and about two thick,191 SWEET DISHES. over which sugar may be strewed, or a light glaze with isinglass. Or you may use macai'oons, to line the edge of the dish. Burnt Cream. Boil a pint of cream with a stick of cinnamon, and some lemon-peel; take it off the fire, and pour it very slowly into the yolks of four eggs, stirring till half cold* sweeten, and take out the spice, &c. ; pour it into the dish ; when cold, strew white pounded sugar over, and brown it with a salamander. Another way.—Make a rich custard without sugar, boiling lemon-peel in it. When cold, sift a good deal of sugar over the whole, and brown the top with a salamander. Sack Cream. Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, two or three spoonfuls of white wine, sugar, and lemon-peel; stir it over a gentle fire, till it be as thick as rich cream, and afterwards till cold; then serve it in glasses, with long pieces of dry toast. Brandy Cream. Boil two dozen of almonds blanched, and pounded bitter almonds, in a little milk. When cold, add to it the yolks of five eggs beaten well in a little cream, sweeten, and put to it two glasses of the best brandy ; and when well mixed, pour to it a quart of thin cream: set it over the fire, but don’t let it boil; stir one way till it thickens, then pour into cups, or low glasses. When cold it will be ready. A ratafia-drop may be put in each, if you choose it. If you wish it to keep, scald the cream previously. Ratafia Cream. Boil three or four laurel, peach, or nectarine leaves, in a full pint of cream ; strain it; and when cold, add the yolks of three eggs beaten and strained, sugar, and a large spoonful of brandy stirred quick into it. Scald till thick, stirring it all the time. Another way.— Mix half a Quarter of a pint of ratafia19 DCMiSTIC C'OOK£EY. the same quantity of mountain wine, the juice of two or three lemons, a pint of rich cream, and as much sugar as will make it pleasantly-flavoured. Beat it with a whisk, and put it into glasses. This cream will keep eight or ten days. Lemon Cream. Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of two eggs well beaten, four ounces of fine sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon ; boil it up ; then stir it till almost cold; put the juice of a lemon in a dish or bowl, and pour the cream upon it, stirring it till quite cold. Yellow Lemon-cream, without Cream. Pare fouiTemons very thin into twelve large spoonfuls of water, and squeeze the juice on seven ounces of finely pounded sugar; beat the yolks of nine eggs well; add the peels and juice beaten together for some time; then strainit through a flannel into a silver or very nice block- tin sauce-pan ; set it over a gentle fire, and stir it one way till pretty thick, and scalding hot; but not boiling, or it will curdle. Pour it into jelly-glasses. A few lumps of sugar should be rubbed hard on the lemons before they are pared, or after, as the peel will be so thin as not to take all the essence, and the sugar will attract it, and give a better colour and flavour. White Lemon-cream Is made the same as the above; only put the whites of the eggs in lieu of the yolks, whisking it extremely well to froth. Imperial Cream. Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon, then stir it till nearly cold ; have ready in a dish or bowl that you are to serve in, the juice of three lemons strained with as much sugar as will sweeten the cream ; which pour into the dish from a large tea-pot, holding it high, and moving it about to mix with the juice. It should be made at least six hours before it be served, and will be still better if a day.SWEET TrlSHES. 193 Almond Cream. Heat four ounces of sweet almonds, and a few bitter, in a mortar, with a tea-spooiiful of water to prevent oiling, both having been blanched. Put the paste to a quart of cream, and add the juice of three lemons sweetened ; beat it up with a whisk to a froth, which take off on the shallow part of a sieve ; fill glasses with some of the liquor and the froth. Snow Cream. Put to a quart of cream the whites of three eggs weU beaten, four spoonfuls of aweet wine., sugar to your taste, and a bit of lemon-peel; whip it to a froth, remove the peel, and serve in a dish. Coffee Cream, much admired. Boil a calf’s foot in water till it wastes to a pint of jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make a tea-cup of wry strong coffee ; clear it with a bit of isinglass to be perfectly bright; pour to it the jelly, and add a pint of very good cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant; give one boil up, and pour into the dish. It should jelly, but not be stiff. Observe that your coffee be fresh. Chocolate Cream. Scrape into one quart of thick cream, one ounce of the best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; boil and mill it; when quite smooth, take it off, and leave it to be cold ; then add the whites of nine eggs. Whisk ; and take up the froth on sieves, as others are done; and serve the froth in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. Codlin Cream. Pare and core twenty good codlins ; beat them in a mortar, with a pint of cream ; strain it into a dish ; and put sugar, bread-crumbs, and a glass of wine, to it. Stir it well. Excellent Orange Cream. Boil the rind of a Seville orange very tender; beat it fine in a mortar ; put to it a spoonful of the best brandy.194 DOMESTIC COOKERY the juice of a Seville orange, four ounces of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs; beat all together tor ten mi- nutes; then, by gentle degrees, pour in a ])int ofboiling cream; beat till cold ; put into custard-cups set into a deep dish ofboiling water, and let them stand till cold again. Put at the top small strips of orange-paring cut thin, or preserved chips. Raspberrij Cream. Mash the fruit gently, and let them drain; then sprinkle a little sugar over, and that will produce more juice ; then put the juice to some cream, and sweeten it; after which, if you choose to lower it with some milk, it will not curdle; which it would, if put to the milk be- fore the cream ; but it is best made of raspberry-jelly, instead of jam, when the fresh fruit cannot be obtained. Another may.—Boil one ounce of isinglass-shavings in three pints of cream and new milk mixed, for fifteen minutes, or until the former be melted : strain it through a hair-sieve into a basin; when cool put about half a pint of raspberry-juice, or syrup, to the milk and cream: stir it till well incorporated; sweeten, and add a glass of brandy; whisk it about till three parts cold; then put it into a mould till quite cold. In summer use the fresh juice ; in winter, syrup of raspberries. Spinach Cream. Beat the yolks of eight eggs with a wooden spoon or a whisk ; sweeten them a good deal; and put to them a stick of cinnamon, a pint of rich cream, three quarters of a pint of new milk ; stir it well; then add a quarter of a pint of spinach juice ; set it over a gentle stove, and stir it one way constantly till it is as thick as a hasty pudding. Put into a custard dish some Naples biscuits, or preserved orange, in long slices, and pour the mixture over them. It is to be eaten cold; and is a dish either for sujiper, or for a second coui'se. Pistachio Cream. Blanch four ounces of pistachio nuts ; beat them fine with a little rose-water, and add the paste to a pint of cream ; sweeten ; let it just boil, *'ud put it into glasses.195 SWEET DISHES. Clouted Cream. String four blades of mace on a thread; put them to a gill of new milk, and six spoonfuls of rose-water; simmer a few minutes; then by degrees stir this liquor strained into the yolks of two new eggs well beaten. Stir the w hole into a quart of very good cream, and set it over the fire; stir it till hot, but not boiling hot; pour it into a deep dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve it in a cream dish, to eat with fruits. Many people prefer it without any flavour but that of the cream; in which case use a quart of new milk and the cream, or do it as the Devonshire scalded cream. When done enough, a round mark will appear on the surface of the cream, the size of the bottom of the pan it is done in, which in the country they call the ring; and when that is seen, remove the pan from the fire. A fi'oth to set on Cream, Custard, or Trijle, which looks ayid eats well. Sweeten half a pound of the pulp of damsons, or any other sort of scalded fruit, put to it the whites of four eggs beaten, and beat the pulp with them until it will stand as high as you choose; and being put on the cream, &c. with a spoon, it will take any form; it should be rough, to imitate a rock. A Carmel Cover for Sweetmeats. Dissolve eight ounces of double-refined sugar in three or four spoonfuls of water, and three or four drops of lemon-juice; then put it into a copper untinned skillet; when it boils to be thick, dip the handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a pint-basin of water, squeeze the sugar from the spoon into it, and so on till you have all tlie sugar. Take a bit out of the water, and if it snaps, and is brittle when cold, it is done enough; but only let it be three parts cold, when pour the water from the sugar, and having a copper form oiled well, run the sugar on it, in the manner of a maze, and when cold you may put it on the dish it is to cover; but if on trial the sugar is not brittle,, pour off the water, and return it106 DOKESTIC COOKERT. into the skillet, and boil it again. It should lock thick like treacle, but of a bright light gold-colour. It is a most elegant cover. Calf’s Feet Jelly. Boil two feet in two quarts and a pint of water till the feet are broken, and the water half wasted ; strain it, and, when cold, take off the fat, and remove jelly fron?. the sediment; then put it into a sauce-pan, with sugar, I'aisin wine, lemon-juice to your taste, and some lemon- peel. When the flavour is rich, put to it the whites of five eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the sauce-pan on the fii'e, but don’t stir the jelly after it be- gins to warm. Let it boil twenty minutes after it rises to a head ; then pour it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Run the jelly through and through till clear; then put it into glasses or forms. The following mode will greatly facilitate the clear- ing of jelly; When the mi.vture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a tea-cupful of cold water; let it boil five minutes longer; then take the sauce-pan off the fire covered close, and keep it half an hour; after which, it will be so clear as to need only once running through the bag, and much waste will be saved. Observe, feet for all jellies are boiled so long by the people who sell them, that they are less nutritious; they should be only scalded to take off the hair. The liquor will require greater care in removing the fat; but the jelly will be far stronger, and of course allow more water. Note: jelly is equally good made of cow- heels nicely cleaned ; and as they bear a less price than those of calves, and make a stronger jelly, this obser- vation may be useful. ^^nother sort.—Boil four quarts of water with three calf’s feet, or two cow-heels, that have been only scald- ed, till half wasted ; take the jelly from the fat and sediment; mix with it the juice of a Seville orange, and twelve lemons, the peels ot three ditto, the whites and shells of twelve eggs, brown sugar to taste, near a pint197 SWEET DISHES. of raisin wine, one ounce of coriander seeds, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, a bitof cinnamon, and six cloves, all bruised, after having previously mixed them cold. The jelly should boil fifteen minutes without stirring; then clear it through a flannel bag. While running take a little jelly, and mix with a tea-cupful of w ater, in w'hich a bit of beet-root has been boiled, and run it through the bag when all the rest is run out; and this is to gamish the other jelly, being cooled on a plate; but this is matter of choice. This jelly has a very fine high colour and flavour. Orange Jelly. Grate the rind of two Seville and two China oranges, and two lemons; squeeze the juice of three of each, and strain, and add the juice of a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, and a quarter of a pint of water, and boil till it almost candies. Have ready a quart of isinglass- jelly made with two ounces; put to it the syrup, and boil it once up ; strain off the jelly, and let it stand to settle as above, before it is put into the mould. Hartshorn Jelly. Simmer eight ounces of hartshorn shavings with two quarts of water to one ; strain it, and boil it with the rinds of four China oranges and two lemons pared thin ; when cold, add the juice of both, half a pound of .sugar, and the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth : let the jelly have three or four boils without stirring, and strain it through a jelly bag. Cranberry Jelly. Make a very strong isinglass jelly. Wlien cold, mix it wit*!i a double quantity of cranberry juice pressed as directed in poge 229, sweeten and boil it up; then strain it into a shape. The sugar must be good loaf or the jelly will not be clear. Cranberry and Rice Jelly. Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and by degrees mix into it as much ground rice as will, w’hen boiled,198 DOMESTrC COOKERY. thicken to a jelly; boil it gently, stirring it, and sweeten to your taste. Put it in a basin or form, and serve to eat as the afore-directed jelly, with milk or cream. Apple Jelly to serve at table. Prepare twenty golden pippins ; boil them in a pint and a half of water from the spring, till quite tender; then strain the liquor through a colander. To ever} pint put a pound of fine sugar; add grated orange or lemon; then boil to a jelly. Another.—Prepare apples as before by boiling and straining ; have ready half an ounce of isinglass boiled in half a pint of water to a jelly; put this to the apple water, and apple as strained through a coarse sieve ; add sugar, a little lemon-juice and peel; boil all together, and put into a dish. Take out the peel. To scald Codlins. Wrap each in a vine-leaf, and pack them close in a nice sauce-pan ; and when f^ull, pour as much water as will cover them. Set it over a gentle fire, and let them simmer slowly till done enough to take the thin skin off when cold. Place them in a dish, with or without milk, cream, or custard ; if the latter, there should be no ratafia. Dust fine sugar over the apples. Stewed Golden Pippins. Scoop out the core, pare them very fine, and as you do it, throw them in water. For every pound of fruit, make half a pound of single-refined sugar in syrup, with a pint of water; when skimmed, put the pippins in, and stew till clear; then grate lemon over, and serve in the syrup. Be careful not to let them break. They are an elegant and good dish for a corner or desert. Black Cups. Halve and core some fine large apples, put them in a shallow pan, strew white sugar over, and bake them. Boil a glass of wine, the same of water, and sweeten it for sauce Another nay.—^Take oflT a slice from the stalk end ofSWEET DISHES. 199 some apples, and core without paring them. Make ready as much sugar as may be sufficient to sweeten them, and mix it with some grated lemon, and a few cloves in fine powder. Stuff the holes as close as pos- sible with this, and turn the flat end down on a stew- pan ; set them on a very slow fire, with half of raisin wine, and the same of water; cover them close, and now and then baste them with the liquor; when done enough, black the tops with a salamander. Stewed Pears. Pare and halve, or quarter, large pears, according to their size ; throw them into water, as the skin is taken off before they are divided, to prevent tlieir turning black. Pack them round a block-tin stew-pan, and sprinkle as much sugar over as will make them pretty sweet, and add lemon peel, a clove or two, and some allspice cracked ; just cover them with water, and put some of the red liquor, as directed in another article. Cover them close, and stew three or four hours; when tender, take them out, and pour the liquor over them. Baked Pears. These need not be of a fine sort: but some taste bet- ter than others, and often those that are least fit to eat raw. Wipe, but doyi't pare, and lay them on tin-plates, and bake them in a slow oven. When enough to bear it, flatten them with a silver-spoon. When done through, put them on a dish. They should be baked three or four times, and very gently. Orange Butter. Boil six hard eggs, beat them in a mortar with two ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter, and two ounces of blanched almonds beaten to a paste. Moisten with orange-flower water, and when all is mixed, rub it through a colander on a dish, and serve sweet biscuits between. fVine Boll. Soak a penny French roll in raisin wine till it will .old no more ; put it in the dish, and pour round it a200 DOMESTIC COOKERY. custard or cream, sugar, and lemon juice. Just before it be served, sprinkle over it some nonpariel comfits; or stick a few blanched slit almonds into it. Sponge biscuits may be used instead of the roll. To inepare T'ruit for Children, a far more wholesome loay than in Pies and Puddmgs. Put apples sliced, or plums, currants, gooseberries, kc. into a stone jar, and sprinkle as much Lisbon sugar as necessary among them ; set the jar on a hot hearth, or in a sauce-pan of water, and let it remain till the fruit is perfectly done. Slices of bread, or rice, may be either stewed with the fruit, or added, when eaten; the rice being plain boiled. To prepare Ice for Iceing. Get a few pounds of ice, break it almost to powder, throw a large handful and a half of salt among it. You must prepare it in a part of the house where as little of the warm air comes as you can possibly contrive. The ice and salt being in a bucket, put your cream into an ice-pot, and cover it; immerse it in the ice, and draw that round the pot, so as to touch every possible part. In a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir it well, removing the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. If the ice-cream or w'ater be in a form, shut the bottom close, and move the whole in the ice, as you cannot use a spoon to that without danger of waste. There should be holes in the bucket, to let off the ice as it thaws. Note. When any fluid tends towards cold, the moving it quickly accelerates the cold: and likewise, when any fluid is tending to heat, stirring it will fecilitate its boiling. Ice Heaters. Bub some fine sugar on lemon or orange, to give the colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either on its respective peel; add w'ater and sugar to make a fine sherbet, and strain it before it be put into the ice-pot. If orange, the greater proportion should be of the China201 SWKliT DISHES. juice, and only a little of Seville, and a small bit of the peel grated by the sugar. Currant or Raapberry Water Ice. The juice of these, or any other sort of fruit, being gained by squeezing, sweetened and mixed with water, will be ready for iceing. Ice Creams. Mix the juice of the fruits with as much sugar as will be wanted, before you add cream, which should be of a middling richness. Brown Bread Ice. Grate as fine as possible stale brown bread, soak a small proportion in cream two or three hours, sweeten and ice it. Ratafia Cream. Blanch a joz. of bitter almonds, and beat them with a tea-spoonful of water in a marble mortar; then rub with the paste two ounces of lump-sugar, and simmer ten minutes with a tea-cupful of cream, whicli add to a quart more of cream, and having strained, ice it. Colourings to stain Jellies, Ices, or Cakes. For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochineal in the finest powder, with a dram and a half of cream of tartar, in half a pint of water, very slowly, half an hour. Add in boiling a bit of alum the size of a pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured over. For white, use almonds finely powdered, with a little drop of water ; or use cream. For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit of saffron steeped m the liquor and squeezed. For green, pound spinach-leaves or beet-leaves, express the juice, and boil-in a tea-cupful in a sauce- pan of water to take off the rawness. London Syllabub. Put a pint and half of port or white wine into a bowl, nutmeg grated, and a good deal of sugar, then milk into it near two quarts of milk, frothed up. If the wine beDOMESTIC COOKERY. 202 uot rather sharp, it will require more for this quantity of milk.—In Devonshire, clouted cream is put on the top, and pounded cmnamon and sugar. Staffordshire Syllabub. Put a pint of cyder, and a glass of brandy, sugar and nutmeg, into a bowl, and mix into it; or pour warm milk from a large tea-pot some height into it. A very five Somersetshire Syllabub. In a large China bowl put a pint of port, and a pint of sherry, or other white wine ; sugar to taste. Milk the bowl full. In twenty minutes time cover it pretty high with clouted cream; grate over it nutmeg, put pounded cinnamon and nonpariel comfits. Devonshire Junket. Put warm milk into a bowl; turn it with rennet; then put some scalded cream, sugar and cinnamon, on the top, without breaking the curd. Everlasting, or Solid, Syllabubs. Mix a quart of thick raw cream, one pound of refined sugar, a pint and a half of fine raisin wine in a deep pan; put to it the grated peel and the juice of three lemons.. Beat, or whisk it one way half an hour ; then put it on a sieve with a bit of thin muslin laid smooth in the shallow end till next day. Put it in glasses. It will keep good, in a cool place, ten days. Lemon Honeycomb. Sweeten the juice of a lemon to your taste, and put it in the dish that you serve it in. Mix the white of an egg that is beaten with a pint of rich cream, and a little sugar ;''whisk it, and as the froth rises, put it oii the lemon-juice. Doit the day before it is to be used. Eice and Sago Milks Are made by washing the seeds nicely, and simmering with milk over a slow fire till sufficiently done. The former sort requires lemon, spice and sugar; the latter is good without any thing to flavour it.203 SWEET DISHES. A 'pretty Supper Dish. Boil a tea-cupful of rice, having first washed it in milk, till tender: strain off the milk, lay the rice in little heaps on a dish, strew over them some finely powdered sugar and cinnamon, and put warm wine and a little butter into the dish. Savoury Rice. Wash and pick some rice, stew it very gently in a small quantity of veal, or rich mutton broth, with an onion, a blade of mace, pepper and salt. When swelled, but not boiled to mash, dry it on the shallow end of a sieve before the fire, and either serve it dry, or put it in the middle of a dish, and pour the gravy round, having heated it. Carrole of Rice. Take some well-picked rice, wash it well, and boil it five minutes in water, strain it, and put it into a stew- pan, with a bit of butter, a good slice of ham, and an onion. Stew it over a very gentle fire till tender; have ready a mould lined with very thin slices of bacon: mi.v the yolks of two or three eggs with the rice, and then line the bacon with it about half an inch thick; put into it ragout of chicken, rabbit, veal, or of any thing else. Fillup the mould, and cover it close with rice. Bake it in a quick oven an hour, turn it over, and send it to table in a good gravy or curry-sauce. Casserol, or Jiice JEclgbii/, see page 126. Salmagundy Is a oeautiful small dish, if in nice shape, and if the co- loursoftheiiigredientsare varied. For this purpose chop separately the white part of cold chicken or veal, yolks of eggs boiled hard, the whites of eggs ; parsley, half a do- zen anchovies, beet-root, red pickled cabbage, ham, and grated tongue, orany thing well-flavoured, and of a good colour. Some people like a small proportion of onion, but it may be better omitted. A saucer, large tea-cup, or any other base, must be put into a small dish ; then make rows round it wide at bottom, and grow ing smallerDOMESTIC COOKERY. 204 towards the top; choosing such of the ingredients for each row as will most vary the colours. At the top a little sprig of curled parsley may be stuck in ; or, without any thing on the dish, the salmagundy may be laid in rows, or put into the half-whites of eggs, which may be made to stand upright by cutting off a bit at the round end. In the latter case, each half egg has but one ingredient. Curled butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. Macaroni as usuallij served. Boil it in milk, or a weak veal broth, pretty well fla- voured with salt. When tender, put it into a dish with- out the liquor, and among it put some bits of butter and gi'ated cheese, and over the top grate more, and a little more butter. Set the dish into a Dutch oven a quarter of an hour, but do not let the top become hard. Another ivay—Wash it well, and simmer in half milk, and half broth of veal or mutton, till it is tender. To a spoonful of this liquor, put the yolk of an egg beaten in a spoonful of cream; just make it hot to thicken, but not boil: put it over the macaroni, and then grate fine old cheese all over, and bits of butter. Brown with the salamander.—Another: Wash the macaroni, then sim- mer it in a little broth, with a little pounded mace and salt. When quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate a good deal of cheese over, then cover that with bread grated fine. Warm some butter with- out oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little earthen colander over the crumbs, then put the dish in a Dutch oven, to roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. The bread should be in separated crumbs, and look light. Onilet. Make a batter of eggs and milk and a very little flour; put to it chopped parsley, green onions, or chives (the latter is best) or a very small quantity of shalot, a little pepper, salt, and a scrape or tw'o of nutmeg. Make some butter boil in a small frying-pan, and pour the above batter into it when one side is of a fine yellow brown, turn it and do the other. Double it when served. SomeSWEET DISHES. 205 scraped lean ham, or grated tongue, put in at first, is a very pleasant addition. Four eggs will make a pretty sized omlet; but many cooks will use eight or ten. A. small proportion of flour should be used. If the taste be approved, a little tarragon gives a fine flavour. A good deal of parsley should be used. Ramakins and omlet, though usually served in the course, would be much better if they were sent up after, that they might be eaten as hot as possible. Butter to nerve as a little Dish. Roll butter in different forms; either like apine, and make the marks with a tea-spoon, or roll it in crimping rollers, work it through a colander, or scoop with a tea-spoon, and mix with grated beef, tongue or ancho- vies. Make a wreath of curled parsley to garnish. Ramakins. Scrape a quarter of a pound of Cheshire, and ditto of Gloucester cheese, ditto of good fresh butter; then beat all in a mortar with the yolks of four eggs, and the in- side of a small French roll boiled in cream till soft; mix the j)aste with the whites of the eggs previously beaten, and put into small paper pans made rather long than square, and bake in a Dutch oven till of a fine brown. They should be eaten quite hot. Some like the addition of a glass of white wine.—The batter for ramakins is equally good over macaroni when boiled tender; or on stewed brocoli, celery, or cauliflower, a little of the gravy they have been stewed in being put in the dish with them, but not enough to make the vegetable swim. Fonda. Take equal quantities of grated parmesan and good Cheshire cheese, and add about double the weight of this in beaten yolk of eggs and melted butter, beat well together, add pep[>erand salt and then put to it the whites of the eggs, which hav'e been beaten separatelv ; stir them lightly in, and bake it in a deep dish, fill only half full, as it will rise very much. Serve quite hot. s206 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Potted Cheese. Cut and pound four ounces of Cheshire cheese, one ounce and a half of fine butter, a tea-spoonful of white pounded sugar, a little bit of mace, and a glass ofw'hite wine. Press it down in a deep pot. Roast Cheese to come up after Dinner. Grate 3 ounces of fat Cheshire cheese, mix it with the yolks of 2 eggs, 4 ounces ofgrated bread, and 3 ounces of butter; beat ilie whole w'eli in a mortar, with a desert- spoonful of mustard, and a little salt and pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into proper pieces, lay the paste as above thick upon them, put them into a Dutch oven covered with a dish, till hot through, remove the dish, and let the cheese brown a little. Serve as hot as possible. Welch Rabbit. Toasta sliceofbread on both sides, and butter it; toast .a slice of Gloucester cheese on one side, and lay that next the bread, and toast the other with a salamander; rub mustard over, and serve very hot, and covered. Cheese Toast.—Mix some fine butter, made mustard, and salt, intoamass ; spread it on fresh-made thin toasts, and grate or scrape Gloucester cheese upon them. Anchovy Toast.—Bone and skin 6 or 8 anchovies ; pound them to amass with an ounce of fine butter till the colour is equal, and then spread it on toasts or rusks. Another way.—Cutihin slicesof bread intoany form, and fry them in clarified butter. Wash three anchovies split, pound them in a mortar with some fresh butter.rub them through a hair-sieve, and spread on the toast when cold. Then quarter and wash some anchovies, and lay them on the toast. Garnish with parsley or pickles. To poach Eggs.—Set a stew-pan of w-ater on the fire; when boiling, slip an egg, previously broken into a cup, into the water ; w'hen the white looks done enough, slide an egg-slice under tlieegg, and lay it on toast and but- ter, or spinach. As soon as enough aredone, serve hot. If not fresh laid, they will not poach 'veil, and withoutSWIiET DISHES. 207 breaking. Trim the ragged parts of the whites, and make them look round. Buttered Eggs. Beat four or five eggs, yolk and white together, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a basin, and then put that in boiling water, stir it till melted, then pour tliat butter and the eggs into a sauce-pan; keep a basin in your hand, just hold the sauce-pan in the other over a slow part of the fire, shaking it one way, as it begins to warm; pour it into a basin, and back, then hold it again over the fire, stirringit constantly in thesauce-pan, and pour- ing it into the basin,more perfectly to mi.x the egg and butter, until they shall be hot without boiling. Serve on toasted bread ; or in a basin, to eat with salt fish, or red herrings. Scotch Eggs, Boil hard fivepullets. egg.s, and without removing the white, cover completely with a fine relishing forcemeat, in which, let scraped ham, or chopped anchovy bear a due proportion. Fry of a beautiful yellow brown, and serve with a good gravy in the dish. A Pepper-pot. To three quarts of water, put such vegetables as you choose; in summer, peas, lettuce, spinach, and two or three onions; in winter, carrot, turnip, onions, and ce- lery. Cut them very small, and stew them with two pounds of neck erf mutton, and a pound of pickled pork, till quite tender. Half an hour before serving, clear a lobster or crab from the shell, and put it into the stew. Some people choose very small suet-dumplings boiled in the above. Season with salt and Cayenne. Instead of mutton, you may put a fowl. Pepper-po‘ maybe made of various things, and is understood to b« a proper mi.xture of fish,flesh.fowl,vegetables,and pulse. A small quantity of riceshould be boiled with the whole. Tiie Staffordshire Dish of fri/ing Herbs and Liver. Prepare the frying herbs as has been directed among the vegetables, pne/e 176’; on which lay slices of liver fried a beautiful brown, and slicesof bacon just warmed208 DOM£STIC COOKEllY. at the fire, and laid on each. On the outside part of the herbs lay eggs fried very nicely, and then trimmed round; or they may be served on the herbs-, and the liver garnished with the bacon separately. To preserve Suet a Twelvemonth. As soon as it comes in, choose the firmest part, and pick free from skin and veins. In a very nice sauce- pan, set it at some distance from the fire, that it may melt without frying, or it will taste. When melted, pour it into a pan of cold water. When in a hard cake, wipe it very dry, fold it in fine paper, and then in a linen bag, and keep in a dry but not ho*, place. When used, scrape it fine, and it will make a fine crust, either wi,h or without butter, SWEETMEATS. To green Fruits for preserving or pickling. Take pippins, apricots, pears, plums, peaches while green for the first, or radish-pods, French beans for the latter, and cucumbers for both processes; and put them, with vine-leaves under and over, into a hlock-tin pre- serving-pan, with spring-water to cover them, and then the tin cover to exclude all air. Set it on the side of a fire, and wdien they begin tosimmer, take them off, pour off the water, and if not green, put fresh leaves wdien cold, and repeat the same. 'I'ake them out carefully with a slice; they are to be peeled, and then done ac- cording to the receipts for the several modes. To clarifj/ Sugar for Sweetmeats. Break as much as required in large lumps, and put a pound to half a pint of water, inabowd, and it will dis- solve better than when broken small. Set it over the fire, and the well-whipt white of an egg ; let it boil up, and, when ready to run over, pour a littlecold water in togive it a check ; but when it rises a second time, take it off the fire, and set it by in the pan for a quarter of an hour, during which the foulness will sink to the bottom, and •jave a black scum on the top, which take off gently withSWEETMEATS. 209 a skimmer, and pour the syrup into a vessel very quickly from the sediment. To candy any sort of Fruit. When finished in the syrup, put a layer into a new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water, to take oflfthe syrup that hangs about it; put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some more in the sieve. Have ready sifted double-refined sugar, which sift over the fruit on all sides till quite white. Set it on the shallow end of sieves in a lightly-warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully, and it will be beautiful. To prepare Barberries for Tartlets. Pick barberries that have no stones, from the stalks, and to every pound weigh three quarters of a pound of lump-sugar; put the fruit into a jar, and either set it on a hot hearth or in a sauce-pan of water, and let them simmer very slowly till soft; put them and the sugar into a preserving-pan, and boil them gently fifteen minutes. Use no metal but silver. Barberries in bunches. Have ready bits of fiat white wood, three inches long, and a quarter of an inch wide. Tie the stalks of the fruit on the stick from within an inch of one end to beyond the other, so as to make them look handsome. Simmer them in some syrup two successive days, co- vering them each time with it when cold. When they look clear they are simmered enough. The third day, do them like other candy fruit: see receipt for it above. It is at the top of this page. A beautiful Preserve of Apricots. When ripe, choose the finest apricots ; pare them as this as possible, and weigh them. Lay them in halves on dishes, with the hollow part upwards. Have ready an equal weight of good loaf-sugar finely pounded, and strew it over them ; in the mean time break the stones, and blanch the kernels. When the fruit has lain twelve hours, put it, with the sugar and juice, and also the ker- nels, into a preserving-pan. Let it simmer very gentlyDOMESTIC COOKERY. 210 till clear ; ilien take out the pieces of apricots singly as tiiey become so; put them into small pots, and pour the svrup and kernels over them. The scum must be taken off as it rises. Cover with brandy-paper. To 2^reserve Aj)ricots in Jelly. Pare the fruit trr?/ thin, and stone it: weigh an equal quantity of sugar in fine powder, and strew over it. Kextday boil very gently till they are clear, move them into a bowd, and pour the liquor over. The following day pour the liquor to a quart of codlin-liquor, made by boiling and straining, and a pound of fine sugar; letit boil quickly till it will jelly; put the fruit into it, and give one boil, skim well, and put into small pots. I'o preserve green Apricots. Lay vine or apricot leaves at the bottom of your pan, then fruit, and so alternately till full, the upper layer being thick with leaves; then fill withspring-water, and cover down, that no steam may come out. Set the pan at a distance from the fire, that in four or five hours they may be only soft, but not cracked. Make a thin syrup of some of the water, and drain the fruit. When both are cold, put the fruit into the pan, and the syrup to it; put thepan at a proper distance from tiie fire till the apri- cots green, but on no account boil or crack ; remove them very carefully into a pan wdth the syrup, for two or three days; then pour oft'as much of it as wdll be neces- .sary, and boil w'ith more sugar to make a rich syrup, and put a little sliced ginger into it. When cold, and the thin syrup has all been drained from the fruit, pour the thick over it. The former will serve to sweeten pies. Apricots or Peaches in Brandy. Wipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, and have ready a quarter of the weight of fine sugar in find powder. Put the fruit into an ice-pot that shuts very close ; throw the sugar over it, and tlien cover the fruit w'ith brandy. Be- tween the top and cover of the pot, put a piece of double cap-paper. Set the pot into a sauce-pan of water till the brandy be as hot as you can possibly bear to put your211 SWEETMEATS. finger in, but it must not boil. Put the fruit into ajar, and pour the brandy on it. When cold, put a bladder over, and tie it down tiglit. To dry Apricots in half. Pare thin and halve four pounds of apricots, weighing them after; put them in a dish ; strew among them three pounds of sugar in the finest powder. When it melts, set the fruit over a stove to do very gently; as each piece becomes tender, take it out, and put it into a china-bowl. When all are done, and the boiling heat a little abated, pour the syrup over them. In a dayor two remove the syrup, leaving only a little in each half. In a day or two more turn them, and so continue daily till quite dry, in the sun or a warm place. Keep in bo.ves with layers of paper. Apricot Cheese. Weigh an equal quantity of pared fruit and sugar, wet the latter a very little, and let it boil quickly, or the colour will be spoiled ; blanch the kernels, and add to it. 'I'wenty or thirty minutes will boil it. Put it in small pots or cups half filled. Orcmge Marmalade. Pasp the oranges, cut out the pulp, then boil the rinds very tender, and beat fine in a marble mortar. Boil three poundsof loaf-sugar in a pint of water, skim it, and add a pound of the rind ; boil fast till the syruj) is very thick, but stir it carefully; then put a pint of the pulp and juice, the seeds having been removed, and a pint of apple-liquor; boil all gently until well jellied, which it will be in about half an hour. Put it into small pots. Lemon marmalade do in the same way ; they are very good and elegant sweetmeats. Transparent Marmalade. Cut the palest Seville oranges in quarters, take the pulp out, and ])ut it in a basin, pick out the seeds and skins. Let the outsides soak in water with a Utile salt all night, then boil them in a good quantity of spring- water till tender; drain and cut them in very thin slices,DOMESTIC COOKERY. 212 and put them to the pulp: and to every pound, a pound and a half of double-refined sugar beaten fine; boil them together twenty minutes, but be careful not to break the slices. If not quite clear, simmer five or six minutes longer. It must be stirred all the time very gently. When cold, put it into glasses. To butter Oranges hot. Grate off a little of the outside rind of four Seville oranges, and cut a round hole at the blunt end opposite the stalk, large enough to take out the pulp and seeds and juice : then pick the seeds and skin from the pulp ; rub the oranges with a littlesalt, and lay them in water fora short time. You are to save the bits cut out. Set the fruit on to boil in fresh water till they are tender, shifting the water to take out the bitterness. In the meantime, make a thin syrup with fine sugar, and put the oranges into it,and boil them up; turning them round, that each part may partake of the syrup, as there need not be enough to cover them, and letthem remain in it hot till they are to be served. About half an hour before you want them put some sugar to the pulp, and set over the fire; mix it well, and let it boil; then add a spoonful of white wine for every orange, give it a boil, and then put in a bit of fresh butter, and stir over the fire to thicken ; fill the oranges with it, and serve them with some of the syrup in the dish. Put the bits on the top. ToJill preserved Oranges ; a corner Dish. Forfive take a pound of Naples biscuits, someblanch- ed almonds, the yolks of four eggs beaten, sugar to your taste, four ounces of butter warmed, grate the biscuits, and mix with the above and some orange-flower water. Fill preserved oranges, and bake in a very slow oven. If you like them frosted, sift sugar over them as soon as filled; otherwise wipe them. Custard to fill will do as well; if so, you need not bake the oranges, but put it in when become cold. IVhole Oranges carved. Cut on the rinds any shapes you please with a pen- knife; cut a bit off near and round the stalk, and with an2i5 SWEETMEATS. the sun, or before the fire: when half dry, cut it into i apple-scoop take all the pulp carefully out; put them into salt and water 2 days, changing it daily ; boil them an hour or more in fresh salt and water; drain them quite dry; let them stand a night more in plain water, and then another night in a thin syrup, in which boil them the next day a few minutes. Do this four days successively. Let them stand si.x or seven weeks, ob- serving often whether they keep well; otherwise boil the syrup again. Then make a rich syrup. Buttered OraJige-juice, a cold dinh. klix the juice of seven Seville oranges with 4 spoon- fuls of rose-water, and add the whole to the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, well beaten; then strain the liqour to half a pound of sugar pounded, stir it over a gentle fire, and when it begins to thicken, put about the size of a small walnut of butter, keep it over the fire a few minutes longer ; then pour it into a flat dish, and serve it to eat cold. If you have n(« silver sauce-pan, do it in a china- basin in a sauce-p,:n of boiling water, the top of which will just receive the basin. Onufige Chips. Cut oranges in halves, squeeze the juice through a sieve; soak the peel in water; ne.xt day boil in the same till tender, drain them, and slice the peels, put them to the juice, weigh as much sugar, and put altogether into a broad earthen dish, and put over the fire at a moderate distance, often stirring tdl the chips candy; then set them in a cool room to dry. They will not be so under three weeks. Orange Biscuits, or little Cakes. Boil whole Seville oranges in 2 or 3 waters, till most of the bitterness is gone ; cut them, and take out the pulp and juice; then beat the outside very fine in a mortar, and put to it an equal weight of double-refined sugar beaten and sifted. When extremely well mixed to a paste, spread it thin on china dishes, and set them in214 DOMESTIC COOKEUY. what form you please, turn the other side up, and dry that. Keep them in a box, with layers of paper. They are for deserts; and are also useful as a stomachic, to carry in the pocket on journeys, or for gentlemen when shooting, and for gouty stomachs. Orange-Jlower Cakes. Put four ounces of thele.aves of the flowers into cold Water for an hour ; drain, and put between napkins, and roll with a rolling-pin till they are bruised ; then have ready boiled 1 lb. of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup, give them a simmer, until tlie syrupadheres to the sitles of the pan, drop in little cakes on a plate, and dry as before directed. To preserve Oranges or Lemons in Jellij. Cut a hole in the stalk part, the size of a shilling, and with a blunt small knife scrape out the pulp quite clear without cutting the rind. Tie each separately in muslin, and lay them in spring-water 2 days, changing twice a day ; in the last boil them tender on a slow fire. Ob- serve that there is enough at first to allow for wasting, as they must be covered to the last. To every pound of fruit, weigh two pounds of double-refined sugar, and one pint of water; boil ihe two latter together with the juice of theorange toasyrup, and clarifyit, skim well, and let it stand to be cold; then boil the fruit in the syrup half an hour ; if not clear, do this daily till they are done. Pare and core some green pippins, and boil in water till it tastes strong of them ; don't break them, only gently press them with the back of a spoon ; strain the water through a jelly-bag till quiteclear ; then to every pint put a pound of double refined sugar, the peel and juice ofa lemon, and boil to a strong syrup. Drain off the syrup from the fruit, and turning each orange witli the hole upwards in a jar, pour the apple jelly over it. The bits cut out must go through the same process with the fruit. Cover with brandy paper.SWEETMEATS. 215 To keep Oranges or Lemons for Puddings, &-c. 'yien you squeeze (be fruit, throw the outside in water without the pulp; let them remain in the same a forU night, adding no more ; hoil them therein till tender strain it from them, and when they are tolerably dry' throw thein into any jar of candy you may have remain- ing from old sweetmeats; or if you have none, boil a small quantity of syrup of common loaf-sugar and water and put over them ; in a week or ten days boil them gently in it till they look clear, and that they may be covered with it in the jar. You may cut each half of the iruit in two, and they will occupy small space. To preserve Strawberries whole. lake equal weights of the fruit and double-refined sugar ; lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half the sugar in line powder over; give a gentle shake to tie dish, that the sugar maytoucli the underside of the Iruit. Next day make a thin syrup with the remainder ol the sugar, and, instead of water, allow one pint of red-currant-juice to every pound of strawberries- in this simmer them until sufficiently jellied. Choose the largest scarlets, or others, when not dead ripe In either of the above ways, they eat well served in thin cream, in glasses. To preserve Strawberries in Wine. Put a quantity of the finest large strawberries into a goosebeiry-bottle, and strew in three large spoons of hue sugar ; fill up with Madeira wine, or fine sherry. To dry Cherries with sugar. Stone six pounds of Kentish ; put them into a pre- sei\ing-pan, with two pounds of loaf-sugar pounded and strewed among them; simmer till they becrin to shrivel; then strain them from the juice ; lay them on a hot hearth, or in an oven, when either is cool tnough to dry without baking them. The same syrup will do another six pounds of fruit. To dry Cherries without Sugar. Stone, and set them over the fire in the preserving, pan ; let them simmer in their own liquor, and shake216 DOMESTIC COOK^PTY. them in the pan. Put them by in china common dishes ; next day give them another scald, and put them, when cold, on sieves to dry, in an oven of at- temperated heat as above. Twice heating, an hour each time, will do them. Put them in a box, with a paper between each layer. To dry Cherries the best way. To every five pounds of cherries stoned, w'eigh one of sugar double refined. Put the fruit into the preserving- pan with very little water ; make both scalding hot; take the fruit immediately out and dry them ; put them into the pan again, strevving the sugar between each layer of cherries ; let it stand to melt; then set the pan on the fire, and make it scalding hot as before ; take it off, and repeat this thrice with the sugar. Drain them from the syrup ; and lay them singly to dry on dishes, in the sun or on a stove. When dry, put them into a sieve, dip it into a pan of cold water, and draw it in- .stantly out again, and pour them on a fine soft cloth ; dry them, and set them once more in the hot sun, or on a stove. Keep them in a box, with layers of white paper, in a dry place. This way is the best to give plumpness to the fruit, as well as colour and flavour. Cherries in Brandy. Weigh the finest morellas, having cut off half the stalk prick them with anew needle, and drop them into a jar or wide-mouthed bottle. Pound three quarters the w'eight of sugar or white candy ; strew over; fill up with brandy, and tie a bladder over. Cherry Jam. To twelve pounds of Kentish or dukecherries, when ripe, weigh one pound of sugar; break the stones of part, and blanch them ; then put them to the fruit and sugar and boil all gently, till the jam comes clear from the pan. Pour it into china-plates to come up dry to table. Keep in boxes with white paper between. Currant Jam, black, red, or whits. Let thefruitbe very ripe, pickit clean, from the stalks,SWEETMEATS. 217 bruise it, and to every pound put three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar; stir it well, and boil half an hour. Currant Jelly, red or black. Strip the fruit, and in a stone jar strew them in a sauce-pan of water, or Vy boiling it on the hot hearth : strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh a pound of loaf sugar; put the latter in large lumps into it, in a stone or china-vessel, till nearly dissolved ; then put it in a preserving-pan; simmer and skim as necessary. When it will jelly on a plate, put it in small jars or glasses. Af>ple Marmalade. Scald apples till they will pulp from the core; then take an equal weight of su^ar in large lumps, just dip them in water, and boiling it till it can be well skimmed, and is a thick syrup, put to it the pulp, and simmer it on a quick fire a quarter of an hour. Grate a little lemon- peel before boiled, but if too much it will be bitter. Apple Jelly for preserving Apricots, or for any sort of Sweetmeats. Let apples be pared, quartered, and cored ; put them into a stew-pan with as much water as will cover them; boil as fast as possible; when the fruit is all in a mash, add a quart of water; boil half an hour more, and run through a jelly-bag. If in summer, codlins are best; in September, gol- den rennets or winter-pippins. Red Apples in J elly. Pare and core some well-shaped apples ; pippins or golden rennets if you have them, but others will do; throw them into water as you do them ; put them in a preserving pan, and with as little water as will only half cover them ; let them coddle, and when the lower side in done, turn them. Observe that they do not lie too close when first put in. Mix some pounded cochineal with the water, and boil with the fruit. When suffici- ently done, take them out on the dish they are to be served i-n, thestalkdownwards. Take the water, and make a rich jelly of it with loaf-sugar, boiling the thin21S DOMESTIC COOKERV. rind and juice ofa lemon. When come to a jelly> let it grow cold, and put it on and among the apples ; cut the peel of the lemon in nari’ow strips, and put across the eye of the apple. Observe that the colour be fine from the first, or the fruit will not afterwards gain it: and use as little of the cochineal as will serve, lest the syrup taste bitter. Dried Apples- Put them in a cool oven six or seven times, and flat- ten them by degrees, and gently, when soft enough to bear it. If tlie oven be too hot they will waste; and at first it should be very cool. The biffin, the minshul crab, or any tart apples, are the sorts for drying. To preserve jarga?iel Pears most beautifully. Pare them very thin, and simmer in a thin syrup ; let them lie a day or tw'o. Make the syrup richer, and simmer again; and repeat this till they are clear; then drain, and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a very little time. They may be kept in syrup, and dried as wanted, w'hich makes them more moist and rich. Gooseberry Jam for Tarts. Put twelve pounds of the red hairy gooseberries, when ripe and gathered in dry weather, into a preserving-pan, with a pint of currant-juice, drawn as for jelly ; let them boil pretty quick, and beat them with the spoon ; when they begin to break, put to them six pounds of pure white Lisbon sugar, and simmer slowly to a jam. It requires long boiling, or will not keep ; but is an ex- cellent and reasonable thing for tarts or puffs. Look at it in two or three days, and if the syrup and fruit separate, the whole must be boiled longer. Be careful it does not burn to the bottom. Another.—Gather your gooseberries (the clear white or green sort) when ripe ; top and tail, and weigh them ; a pound to three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half a pint of water ; boil and skim the sugar and water ; then put the fruit, and boil gently till clear; then break and put into small pots.219 SWEETMEATS. ff hite Gooseberry Jam. Gather the finest wliite gooseberries, or green if you choose, when just ripe; top and tail them. To each pound put three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and lialfapintof water. Boil and clarify the sugar in the water as directed in page 208 ; then add the fruit; sim- mer gently till clear, then break it, and in a few minutes put the jam into small pots. Gooseberry Hops. Of the largest green walnut kind, take and cut tlie bud end in four quarters, leaving the stalk end whole; pick out the seeds, and with a strong needle and thread fasten five or si.x together, bv running the thread through the bottoms, till they are of the size of a hop. Lay vine- leaves at the bottom of a tin preserving-pan, cover them with the hops, then a layer of leaves, and so on; lay a good many on the top, then fill the pan with water. Stop it so close down that no steam can get out, set it by a slow fire till scalding hot, then take it olf till cold, and so do till on opening while cold, the gooseberries are of a good green. 'I’hen drain them on sieves, and make a thin syrup of a pound of sugar to a pint of water, boil, and skim it well; when half cold, put in the fruit; ne.xt day give it one boil; do this thrice. If the ho]>s are to be dried, which way they eat best, and look well, they may be set to dry in a week ; but if to be kept wet, make a syrup in the above proportions, adding a slice of ginger in boiling; when skimmed and clear, give the goose- berries one boil, and when cold, pour it over them. If the first syrup be found too sour, a little sugar may be added and boiled in it, before the hops that are for drving have their last boil. The extra-syrup will serve for pies, or go towards other such meats. Raspberry Jam. Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar; put the former into a})reserving-pan, boil and breakit, stir con- slantly, and let it boil very quickly. When most of the juice is wasted, add the sugar, and simmer half an hourDOMESTIC COOKERY. 220 This way the jam is greatly superior in colour arO flavour to that which is made by putting the sugar in it first.—Another may.—Put the fruitin a jar in a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, till the juice will run from it, then take away a quarter of a pint from every pound of fruit; boil and bruise it half an hour, then put in the weight of the fruit in sugar, and, adtiing the same quantity of currant-juice, boil it to a strong jelly. The raspberry-juice will serve to put into brandy, or may be boiled with its weight in sugar for making the jelly or raspberry-ice or cream. 'To preserve Greengages. Choose the largest, when they begin to soften; split them without paring, and strew a part of the sugar which you have previously weighed an equal quantity of. Blanch the kernels with a small sharp knife. Next day, pour the syrup from the fruit, and boil it w'ith the other sugar, six or eight minutes, very gently; skim, and add the plums and kernels. Simmer till clear, taking off any scum that rises; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels to it. If you would candy it, do not add the syrup, but observe the directions that will be given for candy- ing fruit; some may be done each way. Damson Cheese. Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar in a sauce-pan of water, or on a hot hearth. Pour off some of the juice, and to every two pounds of fruit weigh half a pound of sugar. Set the fruit over a fire in the pan, let it boil quickly till it begin to look dry; takeout the stone.s, and add the sugar, stir it well in, and simmer two hours slowly, then boil it quickly half an hour, till the sides of the pan candy ; pour the jam then into potting-pans or dishes, about an inch thick, so that it may cut firm. If the skins be disliked, then the juice is not to be taken out; but after the first process, the fruit is to be pulped through a very coarse sieve with the juice, and managed as above. The stones are to be cracked, or some of them, and the kernels boiled in the jam. All the juice may beSWEETMEATS. let'J. n, ami boiled to evaporate, but don’t add the sugar until it has done so. Tlie above looks well in shapes. Muscle-plum Cheese. Weigh Gibs, of the fruit, bake it in a stone jar, re- move the stones, and take out the kernels to put in. Pour half the juice on two pounds and a half of good Lisbon ; when melted and simmered a few minutes,skim it,andadd the fruit. Keep it doing very gently till the juice is much evaporated,taking care to stir it constantly, lest it burn. Pour it into small moulds, pattypans, or saucers. The remaining juice may serve to colour cream, or be added to a pie. Biscuits of Fruit. To the pulp of any scalded fruit put an equal weight of sugar sifted, beat it two hours, then put it into little whitepaper forms, dry in a cool oven, turn the next day, and in two or three days box them. Quince Marmalade. Pare and quarter quinces, weigh an equal quantity of sugar; to 4 lbs. of the latter put a quart of water, boil and skim, and have ready against four pounds of quinces are tolerably tender by the following mode: lay them into a stone jar, with a tea-cup of water at the bottom, and pack them with a little sugar strewed between ; cover the jar close, and set it on a stove or cool oven, and let them soften till the colour become red, then pour the fruit-syrup and a quart of quince-juice into a pre- serving-pan, and boil all together till the marmalade be completed, breaking the lumps of fruit with the pre- serving ladle. This fruit is so hard, that if it be not done as above, it requires a great deal of time. Stewing quinces in a jar, and then squeezing them through a cheese-cloth, is the best method of obtaining the juice to add as above, and dip the cloth in boiling water first and wring it. 7o preserve whole or half Quinces. Into two quarts of boiling water put a quantity of the fairest golden pippins, in slices not very thin, and not T222 domestic cookery. pared, but wiped clean. Boil them very quick, close covered, till the water becomes a thick jelly ; thenscald the quinces. To everypint ofpippin-jelly puta pound of the finest sugar : boilit, and skim itclear. Put those quinces that are to be done whole into the syrup at once, and let it boil very fast; and those that are to be in halves by themselves; skim it, and when the fruit are clear, put some of the syrup into a glass to try whether it jellies before taking off the fire. The quantity of quinces is to be a pound to a pound of sugar, and a pound of jelly already boiled with the sugar. Excellent Sweetmeats for 7'arts, when Fruit is plentiful. Divide two pounds of apricots when just ripe; and take out and break the stones; put the kernels without their skin to the fruit; add to it three pounds of greengage plums, and two pounds and a half of lump sugar ; sim- mer until the fruit be a clear jam. The sugar should be broken in large pieces, and just dipped in water, and dded to the fruit over a slow fire. Observe that it Joes not boil, and skim it well. If the sugar be -clarified it will make the jam better. Put itinto small pots,in which all sweetmeats keep best. Magnum Bonum Plums: excellent as a Sioeetmeat or in Tarts, though vertj had to eat raw. Prick them with a needle to prevent bursting, simmer them very gently in a thin syrup, put them in a china bowl, and when cold pour it over. Let them lie three days; then make a syrup of 3 lbs. of sugar to five of fruit, with no more water than hangs to large lumpsof the sugar dipped quickly, and instantly brought out. Boil the plums in this fresh syrup, after draining the first from them. Do them very gently till they are clear, and the syrup adheres to them. Put them one by one into small pots, and pour the liquor over. Those you may like to dry, keep a little of the syrup for, longer in the pan, and boil it quickly; then give the fruit one warm more, drain, and put them to dry on plates in a cool oven. Thsee plums are apt to ferment, if not boiled in 2 syrups; the former will sweeten pies, bu»223 SWEETMEATS. will have too much acid to keep. You may reserve part of it, and add a little sugar, to do those that are to dry, for they will not require to be so sweet as if kept wet, and will eat very nicely if only boiled as much as those Don’t break them. One parcel may be done after another, and save much sugar. Lemon Drops. Grate three large lemons, with a large piece of double-refined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a plate, add half a tea-spoonful of flour, mix well, and beat it into a light paste with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white paper, and put them into a moderate oven on a tin plate. Barberry Drops. The black tops must be cut off: then roast the fruit before the fire, till softenoughto pulp with a silver spoon through a sieve into a china-basin ; then set the basin in a sauce-pan of water, the top of which will just fit it, or on a hot hearth, and stir it till it grows thick. AVhen cold, put to every pint a pound and a halfof sugar, the finest double-refined, pounded and sifted through a lawn-sieve, which must be covered with a fine linen, to prevent its wasting while sifting. Beat the sugar and juice togetlier three hours and a half if a large quantity, but two and a half for less; then drop it on sheets of wliite ;ihick paper, the size of the drops sold in tlie shops. Some fruit is not so sour, and then less sugar is neces- sary. To know if there be enough, mix till well incor- porated, and then drop; if it run, there is not enough sugar, and if there is too much it will be rough. A dry room will suffice to dry them. No metal must touch the juice but the point of a knife, just to take the drop off the •jnd of the wooden spoon, and then as little as possible. Ginger Drops: a good Stomachic. Beat two ounces of fresh candied orange in a mortar, with a little sugar, to a paste; then mix one ounce of powder of white ginger with one pound of loaf-sugar. Wet the sugar with a little water, and boil altogether to a candy, and drop it on uaper the size of mint-drops.224 domestic cookery. Peppermint Drops. Pound and sift four ounces of double-refined sugar, beat it with the whites of two eggs till perfectly smooth ; then add sixty drops of oil of peppermint, beat it well and drop on whitepaper, and dry at a distance from the fire. Ratafia Drops. Blanch and beat in a mortar four ounces of bitter, and two ounces of sweet almonds, with a little of a pound of sugar sifted, and add the remainder of the sugar, and the whites of two eggs, making a paste; of which put little balls, the size of a nutmeg, on wafer-paper, and bake gently on tin-plates. Raspberry (jokes. Pick out any bad raspberries that are among the fruit, weigh and boil what quantity you please, and when mash- ed, and the liquor is wasted, put to it sugar the weight of the fruit you first put into the pan, mix it well off the fire until perfectly dissolved, then put it on china- plates, and dry it in the sun. As soon as the top part dries ’cut with the cover ofacanister into small cakes, turn ’them on fresh plates, and, when dry, put them in boxes with layers of paper. TO PRESERVE FRUITS FOR WIKTER USE. Observations on Sweetmeats. Sweetmeats should lie kept carefully from the air, and ill a very dry place. Unless they have a very small pro- portion of sugar, a warm one does not hurt; but when not properly boiled, that is, long enough, but not quick, heat makes'them ferment; and damp causes them to grow mouldy. They should be looked at two or three times in the' first two months, that they may be gently boiled again, if not likely to keep. It is necessary to observe, that the boiling of sugar more or less, constitutes the chief art of the confectioner, and those who are not practised in this knowledge, and only preservein a plain way for family use, are not awap that, in two or three minutes, a syrup over the fire will pass from one gradation to another, called by the confec- tioners degrees of boiling, of which there are six, and22.5 PRESERVES. those subdivided. But I am not versed in the minutae, and only make the observation to guard against under- boiling, which prevents sweetmeats from keeping ; and t^uick boiling and long, which brings them to a candy. Attention, without much practice, will enable a per- son to do any of the following sorts of sweetmeats. Sec. and they are as much as is wanted in a private family ; the higher articles of preserved fruits may be bought at less expence than made. Jellies of fruit made with equal quantity of sugar, that is, a pound to a pint, require no very long boiling. A pan should be kept for the purpose of preserving; of double block tin, with a bow-handle opposite the straight one, for safety, will do very well; and if put by nicely cleaned, in a dry place, when done with, will last for several years. Those of copper or brass are improper, as the tinning wears out by the scraping of the sweet-meat ladle. There is a new sort of iron, with a strong tinning, which promises to wear long. Sieves and spoons should be kept likewise for sweet things. Sweetmeats keep best in drawers that are not con- nected with a wall. If there be the least damp, cover them only with paper dipped in brandy, laid quite close; putting a little fresh over in spring, to prevent insect mould. When any sweetmeats are directed to be dried in the sun or in a stove, it will be best in private families, where there is not a regular stove for the purpose, to put them in the sun on Hag-stones, which reflect the heat, and place a garden glass over them to keep insects off; or if pin in an oven, to take care not to let it be too warm, and watch that tliey do properly and slowly. To keep Garranls. The bottles being perfectly clean and dry let the currants be cut from the large stalks with the smallest bit of stalk to each, that the fruit not being wounded no moisture may be among tiiem. It is necessary to gather them when the weather is quite dry, and if the gervant can be depended upon, it is best to cut them under the trees, and let them drop gently into the bottles.DOMESTIC COOKEKY. 226 Stop up the bottles with cork and rosin, and put them into the trench in the garden with the neck downwards; stocks should be placed opposite to where each sort of fruit begins. Cherries and Damsons keep in the same way. Currants may be scalded, as directed for gooseber- ries, the first method. To keep Codlins for several months. Gather codlins at Midsummer of a middling size, put them into an earthen pan, pour boiling water over them, and cover the pan with cabbage-leaves. Keep them by the fire till they would peel,butdon’t peel them; then pour the water off till they are both quite cold. Place the codlins then in a stone jar with a smallish mouth, and pour on them the water that scalded them. Cover the pot with bladder wetted, and tied very close, and then over it coarse paper tied again. It is best to keep them in small jars, such as will be used at once when opened. To keep Gooseberries. Before they become too large, let them be gathered, and take care not to cut them in taking oft’the stalks and buds. Fill wide-mouthed bottles: put the corks loosely in, and set the bottles up to the neck in water in a boiler. When the fruit looks scalded, take them out: and when perfectly cold, cork close, and rosin the top. Dig a trench in a part of the garden least used, sufficiently deep for all the bottles to stand, and let the earth be thrown over, to cover them a foot and a half. When a frost comes on, a little fresh litter from the stable will prevent the ground from hardening so that the fruit cannot be dug up. Or, scald as above ; when cold, fill the bottles with cold water, cork them, and keep them in a damp or dry place; they will not be spoiled. Another way.—In the size and preparation as above; when done, have boiling water ready, either in a boiler or large kettle ; and into it put as much roach-alum as will, when dissolved, harde^x the water, which you will227 PRESERVES. taste by a little roughness; if there be too much it will spoil the fruit. Put as many gooseberries into a large sieve as will lie at the bottom without covering one ano- ther. Hold the sieve in the water till the fruit begins to look scalded on the outside ; then turn them gently out of the sieve on a cloth on the dresser, cover them with another cloth, and put some more to be scalded, and so on tillall be finished. Observe not to put one quantity on another, or they will become too soft. The next day pick out any bail or broken ones, bottle the rest, and fill up the bottles with the alum-water in which they were scalded ; which must be kept in the bottles; for if left in the kettle, or in a glazed pan, it will spoil. Stop them close. The water must boil all the time the process is carry- ing on. Gooseberries done this way make as fine tarts as fresh off the trees. Another way.—In dry weather pick the gooseberries that are full grown, but notripe; top and tail them, and put into open-mouthed bottles; gently cork them with new velvet corks; put them in the oven when the bread is dravvn, and let them stand til! shrunk a quarter part ; take them out of the oven, and immediately beat the corks in tight, cut oft the tops, and rosin down close; set them in a dry place; and if well secured from air they will keep the year round. If gathered in the damp, or the gooseberries’ skins are the least cut in taking off the stalks and buds, they will mould. 'I'he hairy sort only must be used for keep- ing, and do tliem before the seeds become large. Currants and damsons may be done the same. To keep Damsons for winter Pies. Put them in small stonejars, or wide-mouthed bottles; set them up to their necks in a boiler of cold water, and lighting a fire under, scald them. Next day, when per- fectly cold, fill up with spring water; cover them. Another way.—Boil one third as much sugar as fruit with it,over a slow fire, till the juiceadheres to the fruit,DOMESTIC COOKERT. 228 and forms a jam. Keep it in small jars in a dry place. If too sweet, mix with it some of the fruit that is done without sugar. Another may.—Choose steen-pots if you can get them, which are of equal size top and bottom (they should Iiold eight or nine pounds); put the fruit in about a quarter up, then strew in a quarter of the sugar; then another quantity of fruit, and so till all ofboth are in. The pro- portion of sugar is to be 3 lbs. to 9 lbs. of fruit. Set the jars in the oven, and bake the fruit quite through. When cold, put a piece of clean-scraped stick into the middle of the jar, and let the upper part stand above the top; then pour melted mutton suet over the top, full half an inch thick, having previously covered the fruit with white paper. Keep the jars in a cool dry place, and use the suet as a cover; which you will draw up by the stick, minding to leave a little forked branch to it to prevent its slipping out. J o preserve Fruit for Tarts, or Family-deserts. Cherries, plums of all sorts, and American apples, ga- ther when ripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold a pound ; strew over each jar 6 oz. of good loaf-sugar pounded ; cover with tw'o bladders each, separately tied down; then set the jars in alarge stew-pan ofw'aterup to the neck, and let it boil 3 hours gently. Keep these and all other sorts of fruit free from damp. To keep Lemon-juice. Buy the fruit when cheap, keep it in a cool place 2 or 3 days, if too unripe to squeeze readily; cut the peel ofi’ some, and roll them under your hand to make them part with the juice more readily; others you may leave unpared for grating, when the pulp shall be taken out and dried. Squeeze the juice into a China basin ; then strain it through somemuslin, which will notpermit the least pulp to pass. Have ready half and quarter ounce phials perfectly dry ; fill them with the juice so the top as only to admit half a tea-spoonful of swecl229 PRESERVES. oil into each ; or a little more, if for larger bottles. Cork tlie bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. When you want !emon-jnice, open such a sized bottle as you shall tise in two or three days; wind some clean cotton round a skewer, and dipping it in, the oil will be attracted ; and when all shall be removed, the juice will be as fine as when first bottled. Hang the peels up till dry ; then keep them from the dust. China Orange-juice A very useful thing to mix with water vi Fevers, when the fresh Juice cannot bo pro- cured. Squeeze from the finest fruit a pint of juice strained through fine muslin, and gently simmer with three quarters of a pound of double refined sugar twenty minutes; when cold put it in small bottles. Different icays of dressing Cranberries. For pies and puddings with a good deal of sugar. Stew in a jar wdth the same : wliich way they eat well with bread, and are very wholesome. Thus done, pressed and strained, the juice makes a fine drink for people in fevers. Orgeat. Boil a quart of new milk with a stick of cinnamon, sweeten to your taste, and let it grow cold ; then pour it by degrees to three ounces of almonds, and twenty bit- ter that have been blanched and beaten to a paste, with a little water to prevent oiling; boil all together, and stir till cold, then add half a glass of brandy. .Another u'cnj.—Blanch and pound three quarters of a pound of almonds, and thirty bitter, with a spoonful of water. Stir in by degrees two pints of water, and three ot milk, and strain the whole through a cloth. Dissolve naif a pound of fine sugar in a pint of water, boil and skim it well ; mix it witii the other, as likewise two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and a tea-cupful of the best brandy*230 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Lemonade, to be made the day before wanted. Pare two dozen of tolerably sized lemons as thin as possible, put eight of the rinds into three quarts of hot, not boiling water, and cover it over for three or four hours. Rub some fine sugar on the lemons to attract the essence, and put it into a china-bowl, into which squeeze the juice of the lemons. 'I'o it add one pound and a half of fine sugar, then put the water to the above, and three quarts of milk made boiling hot; mix, and pour through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear. ..dnothcr way.—Pare a number of lemons according to the quantity you are likely to want; on the peels pour hot water, but more juice will be necessary than you need use the peels of. While infusing, boil sugar and water to a good syrup with the white of an egg whiptup; when it boils, pour a little cold water into it; set it on again, and when it boils up take the pan off, and set it to settle. If there is any scum, take it off, and pour it clear from the sediment to the water the peels were in- fused in, and the lemon-juice; stir and taste it, and add as much more water as shall be necessary to make a very rich lemonade. Wet a jelly-bag, and squeeze it drv, then strain the liquor, which is uncommonly fine. Lemonade that has the flavour a7id appearance of Jelly. Pare 2 Seville oranges and 6 lemons as thin as pos- sible, and steep them 4 hours in a quart of hot water. Boil a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar in 3 pints of water, and skim it. Add the two liquors to the juice of six China oranges, and twelve lemons; stir the whole well, and run it through a jelly-bag till clear. Then add a little orange-water, if you like the flavour, and, if wanted, more sugar. It will keep well if corked. Raspberry Vinegar. Put a pound of fine fruit into a china-bowl, and pour upon it a quart of the best white wine vinegar; next day strain the liquor on a pound of fresh raspberries ; and the following day do the same, but do not squeeze the fruit, only drain the liquor as dry as you can from it. The last231 CAKES. jme pass it through a canvas previously wet with vine- gar to prevent waste. Put it into a stone jar, with a pound of sugar to every pint of juice, broken into large lumps; stir it when melted, then put the jar into a sauce-pan of water, or on a hot hearth, let it simmer, and skim it. When cold, bottle it. This is one of the most useful preparations that can be kept in a house, not only as affording the most re- freshing beverage, but being of singular efficacy in complaints of the chest. A large spoonful or two in a tumbler of water. Be careful to use no glazed nor metal vessel for it. The fruit, with an equal quantity of sugar, makes ex- cellent Raspberry Cakes without boiling. P A R T IX. CAKES, BREAD, &c. Observatio7is on making and bakt?ig Cakes- Currants should be very nicely washed, dried in a cloth, and then set before the fire. If damp they will make cakes or puddings heavy. Before they are ad- ded, a dust of dry flour should be thrown among them, and a shake given to them, which causes the thing that they are put to, to be lighter. Eggs should be very long beaten, whites and yolks apart, and always strained. Sugar should be rubbed to a powder on a clean board, and sifted through a very fine hair or lawn-sieve; Lemon-peel should be pared very thin, and with a little sugar beaten in a marble mortar to a paste, and then mixed with a little wine, or cream, so as to divide easily among the other ingredients. After all the articles are put into the pan, they should be thoroughly and long beaten, as tlie lightness of the cake depends much on their being well incorporated. Whether black or white plum-cakes, they require leasDOMESTIC COOKEllT. 232 butter and eggs for having yeast, and eat equally light and rich. If the leaven be only of flour, milk and water, and yeast, it becomes more tough, and is less easily di- vided, than if the butter be first put with those ingre- dients, and the dough afterwards set to rise by the fire. The heat of the oven is of great importance for cakes, especially those that are large. If not pretty quick, the batter will not rise. Should you fear its catching by being too quick, put some paper over the cake to pre- vent its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or it is become slack, the cake will he heavy, To know when it is soaked, take a broad- bladed knife that is very bright, and plunge into the very centre, draw it instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake immediately in, and shut up the oven. If the heat was sufficient to raise, but not to soak, I have with great success had fresh ffiel quickly put in, and kept the cakes hot till the oven was fit to finish the soaking, and they turned out extremely well. But those who are employed, ought to be particularly careful that no mistake occur from negligence when large cakes are to be baked. Iceing for Cakes. For a large one, beat and sift eight ounces of fine sugar, put into a mortar with four spoonfuls of rose- water, with the whites of two eggs beaten and strained, whisk it well, and when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather in the iceing, and cover the cake well; set it in the oven to harden, but don't let it stay to discolour. Put the cake into a dr}^ place. To ice a very large Cake. Beat the whites of twenty fresh eggs ; then by de- gree beat a pound of double-refined sugar sifted through a lawn-sieve ; mix these well in a deep earthen pan ; add orange-flower water, and a piece of fresh lemon-peel; of the former enough to flavour, and no more. Whisk it for three hours till the mixture is thick and white ; then with a thin broad bit of boardCAKES. 233 spread it all over the top and sides, and set it in a cool oven, and an hour will harden it. A common Cake. Mix three quarters of a pound of flour with half a pound of butter, four ounces of sugar, four eggs, half an ounce of caraways, and a glass of raisin-wine. Beat it well, and bake in a quick oven. Use fine Lisbon sugar. A very good common Cake. • Bub eight ounces of butter into two pounds of dried flour; mix it with three spoonfuls of yeast that is not bitter, to a paste. Let it rise an hour and a half; then mix in the yolks and whites of four eggs beaten apart, one pound of sugar, some milk to make it a proper thick- ness, (about a pint will be sufficient), a glass of sweet wine, the rind of a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of ginger. Add either a pound of currants, or some caraways, and beat well. An excellent Cake. Bub two pounds of dry fine flour, with one of butter, washed in plain and rose-water, mix it with three spoon- fuls of yeast in a little warm milk and water. Set it to rise an hour and a half before the fire; then beat into it two pounds of currants, one pound of sugar sifted, four ounces of almonds, six ounces of stoned raisins, chopped fine, half a nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice, and a few cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped as fine as possible, a glass of wine, ditto of brandy, twelve yolks and whites of eggs beat separately and long, orange, citron, and lemon. Beat exceedingly well, and butter the pan. A quick oven. A very fine Cake. "Wash two pounds and a half of fresh butter in water first, and then in rose-water, beat the butter to a cream ; beat twenty eggs, yolks and whites separately, half an hour each. Have ready two pounds and a half of the finest flour, well dried, and kept hot, likewise a pound and a half of sugar pounded and sifted, one ounce of spice in finest powder, three pounds of currants nicely cleaned and dry,, half a pound of almonds blanched,234 DOMESTIC COOKERY, and three quarters of a pound of sweetmeats cut, not too thin. Let all be kept by the fire, mix all the dry in- gredients ; pour the eggs strained to the butter; mix hall a pint of sweet wine with a large glass of brandy, pour it to the butter and eggs, mix well, then have all the dry things put in by degrees; beat them very thoroughly, you can hardly do it too much. Having half a pound of stoned jar-raisins chopped as fine as possible, mix them carefully, so that there shall be no lumps, and add a tea-cupful of orange-flower water. Beat the in- gredients together a full hour at least. Have a hoop well buttered, or, if you have none, a tin or copper cake-pan ; take a whitepaper, doubled and buttered, and putin the pan round the edge, if the cake batter fill it more than three parts; for space should be allowed for rising. Bake in a quick oven. It will require three hours. Rout Drop Cakes. Mix two pounds of flour, one ditto butter, one ditta sugar, one ditto currants, clean and dry ; then wet into a stift’paste, with two eggs, a large spoon of orange-flower water, ditto rose-water, ditto sweet wine, ditto brandy, d rop on a tin-plate floured : a very short time bakes them. Flat Cakes, that will keep lo7ig in the house good. Mix two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, and one ounce of caraways, with four or five eggs, and a few spoonfuls of water, to make a stiff paste ; roll it thin, and cut it into any shape. Bake on this lightly floured. While baking, boil a pound of sugar in a pint of water to a thin syrup; while both are hot, dip each cake into it, and put them on tins into the oven to dry for a short time; and when the oven is cooler still, return them there again, and let them stay four or five hours. Little White Cakes. Dry half a pound of flour, rub into it a very little punded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few ca- raways, and as much milk and water as to make a paste; roll it thin, and cut it with the top of a canister or glass. Bake fifteen minutes on tin-plates.CAKES. 235 Little short Cakes. Rub into a pound of dried flour 4 oz. of butter, 4oz. of white powder-sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make into a paste. When mixed, put currants into one half, and caraw'ays into the rest. Cut them as before, and bake on tins. Plum Cakes, Mix thoroughly a i of a peck of fine flour, well dried, with a pound of dry and sifted loaf sugar, three pounds of currants washed, and very dry, 5 lb. of raisins stoned and chopped, a quarter of an ounce of mace and cloves, twenty Jamaica peppers, a grated nutmeg, the peel of a lemon cut as fine as possible, and half a pound of almonds blanched and beaten with orange-flower water. Melt two pounds of butter in a pint and a quarter of cream, but not hot, put to it a pint of sweet wine, a glass of brandy, the whites and yolks of twelve eggs beaten apart, and 5 a pint of good yeast. Strain this liquid by degrees into the dry ingredients, beating them together a full hour, then butter the hoop, or pan, and bake it. As you put the batter into the hoop, or pan, throw in plenty of citron, lemon, and orange- candy. If you ice the cake, lake half a pound of double-re- fined sugar sifted, and put a little with the white of an egg, beat it well, and by degrees pour in the remainder. 11 must be whisked near an hour, with the addition of a little oragne-flower water, but mind not to put much. When the cake is done, pour the iceing over, and re- turn it to the oven for 15 minutes ; but if the oven be warm, keep it near the mouth, and the door open, lest the color be spoiled. Another.—Flour dried, and currants washed and picked, four pounds, sugar pounded and sifted one pound and a half, six orange, lemon, and citron-peels, cut in slices: mix these. Beat ten eggs, yolks and whites separately ; then melt a pound and a half of butter in a pint of cream; when lukewarm, put it to half a pint of ale-yeast, near half a.23f) DOMKSTIC COOKERY. pint of sweet wine, and theeggs; then strain the liquid to tlie dry ingredients, beat them well, and add of cloves, mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg, half an ounce each, liutter the pan, and put it into a quick oven. Three hours will bake it. Very good common Plum Cakes. Mix five ounces of butter in 3 lbs. of dry flour, and five ounces of fine Lisbon sugar ; add six ounces of currants, washed and dried, and some pimento finely powdered. Put 3 spoonfuls of yeast into a Winchester pint of new milk warmed, and mix into a light dough with the above. Make it into twelve cakes, and bake on a floured tin half an hour. Little Plum Cakes, to keep long. Dry one pound of flour, and mix with six ounces of finely-pounded sugar; beat six ounces of butter to a cream, and add to 3 eggs, well beaten, half a pound of currants washed, and nicely dried, and the flour and sugar ; beat all for some time, then dredge flour on tin- plates, and drop the batter on them the size of a walnut. If properly mixed, it will be a stiff paste. Bake in a brisk oven. A good Pound Cake. Beat a pound ofbuttertoa cream, and mix with it the whites and yolks of 8 eggs beaten a];art. Have ready warm by the fire, a pound of flour, and the same of sifted sugar, mix them, and a few cloves, a little nutmeg and cinnamon in fine powder together; then by de- grees work the drv ingredients into the butter and eggs, W hen well beaten, add a glass of wine and some cara- ways. It must be beaten a full hour. Butter a pan, and bake it a full hour in a quick oven. The above proportions, leaving out four ounces of the butter, and the same of sugar, make a less luscious caKe, and to most tastes a more pleasant one, A cheap Seed Cake. Mix a quarter of a peck of flour with half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, and a little237 CAKES. ginger; melt three quarters of a pound of butter, with half a pint of milk; when just warm, put to it a quarter of a pint of yeast, and work up to a good dough. Let it stand before the fire a tew minutes before it goes to tlie oven; add seeds, or currants, and bake an hour and a half. Another.—Mix a pound and a half of flour, and a pound of common lump-sugar, eight eggs beaten sepa- rately, an ounce of seeds, two spoonfuls of yeast, and the same of milk and water. A''vte. Milk alone causes cake and bread soon to dry. Common Bread Cake. Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of cur- rants. Warm the butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. By the addition of an ounce of butter, or sugar, or an egg or two, you may make the cake better. A tea- cupful of raw cream improves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. Queen Cakes. Mix a pound of dried flour, the same of sifted sugar, and of washed clean currants. Wash a pound of butter in rose-water, beat it well, then mix with it eight eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and put in the dry ingredients by degrees; beat the whole an hour; butter little tins, tea-cups, or saucers, and bake the batter in, filling only half. Sift a little fine sugar over just as you put into the oven. Another way. Beat eight ounces of butter, and mix with two well beaten eggs, strained; mix eight ounces of dried flour, and the same of lump-sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon, then add the whole together, and beat full half an hour with a silver-spoon. Butter small pattypans, half fill, and bake twenty minutes in Q quick oven. u‘238 DOMESTIC COOKEKY. Shrewsbury Cakes. Sift one pound of sugar, some pounded cinnamon, and a nutmeg grated, into three pounds of flour, the finest sort; add a little rose-water to three eggs, well beaten, and mix these with the flour, &c. then pour into it as much melted butter as will make it a good thickness to roll out. i\fould it well, and roll thin, and cut it into such isbapes as you like. Tunbridge Cakes. Rub six ounces of butter quite fine, into a pound of flour, then mix six ounces of sugar, beat and strain two eggs, and make with the above into a paste. Roll it very thin, and cut with the top of a glass ; jtrick them with a fork, and cover with caraways, or wash with the white of an egg, and dust a little white sugar over. Rice Cake. Mix ten ounces of ground rice, three ounces of flour, eight ounces of pounded sugar; then sift by degrees into eight yolks and six whites of eggs, and the peel of a lemon shred so fine that it is quite mashed ; mix the whole well in a tin stew-pan over a very slow fire with a whisk, then put it immediately into the oven in the same, and bake forty minutes. Another.—Beat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs frith the peels of two lemons grated. Mix one pound of flour of rice, eight ounces of flour, and one pound of sugar pounded and sifted ; then beat it well with the eggs by degrees, for an hour, with a wooden spoon. Butter a pan well, and put it in at the oven mouth. A gentle oven will bake it in an hour and a half. fValer Cakes. Dry three pounds of fine flour, and rub into it one pound of sugar sifted, one pound of butter, and one ounce of caraway-seed. Make it into a paste with three quarters of a pint of boiling new milk, roll very thin, and cut into the size you choose ; punch full of holes, and bake on tin-plates in a cool oven.CAKES. 239 . - SpungeCake. AnH ft f eggs and their weight in very fine sugar and hat of SIX ,n flour; beat the yolks with the fl?ui and the whites done, to a very stiff froth; then by de- grees mix the wnites and the flour with the other ino-re- dients, and beat them well half an hour. Bake ui a quick oven an hour. Another rcithout hutter.—Tivy one pound of flour and one and a quarter of sugar; beat seven eggs, yolks and whites apart; grate a lemon, and. with a spoonlhl ^1 horn ^ for an horn Bake in a buttered pan, in a quick oven Sweetmeats may be added, if approved. Tea Cakes. Bub fine four ounces of butter into eight ounces of flour; mix eight ounces of currants, and six of fine Lisbon sugar, two yolks and one white of eggs, and a spoonful of brandy Boll the paste the thickness of an Oliver biscuit, and cut with a wine glass. You may beat the other white, and wash over them; and either dust sugar, or not, as you like. ' Benton Tea Cakes. Mix a paste of flour, a little bit of butter and milk • roll as thin as possible, and bake on a back-stone over the fire, or on a hot hearth. Another sort, os Biscuits.~^nh into a pound of flour SIX ounces of butter, and three large spoonfuls of yeast, and make into a paste, with a sufficient quantity of new milk; make into biscuits, and prick them with a clean fork. Another sort. Melt six or seven ounces of butter with a sufficiency of new milk warmed to make seven pounds of flour into a stiff paste; roll thin, and make into biscuits. A Biscuit Cake. One pound of flour, five eggs well beaten and strain- ed, eight ounces of sugar, a little rose, or orange-flower water; beat the whole thoroughly, and bake one hour.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 21 ) Macaroons. Blanch four ounces of almonds, and pound with four spoonfuls of orange-flower water; whisk the whites of four eggs to a froth, then mix it, and a pound of sugar, sifted, with the almonds, to a paste : and laying a sheet of %vafer-paper on a tin, put it on in different little cakes, the shape of macaroons. TVafers, Drp the flour well which you intend to use, mix a little pounded sugar and finely-pounded mace with it; then make it into a thick Latter with cream ; butter the wafer irons, let them be hot: put a tea-spoonful of the batter into them, so bake them carefully, and roll them off the iron with a stick. Crack Nuts. Mix eight ounces of flour, and eight ounces of sugar; melt four ounces of butter in two spoonfuls of raisin- wine ; then, with four eggs beaten and strained, make into a paste ; add caraways, roll out as thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white of an egg, and dust sugar over. Cracknels. Mix with a quart of flour half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of four eggs beaten, with four spoonfuls of rose- w'ater, into a stiff paste, with cold water ; then roll-in a pound of butter, and make them into a cracknel shape ; put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them till they swim, then take out, and put them into cold water; when hardened, lay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates. A good plain Bun, that may be eaten with or without toasting and butter. Bub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, four ounces of sugar, a nutmeg, or not, as you like, a few Jamaica peppers, a desert spoonful of caraways; put a spoonful or two of cream into a cup of yeast, and as much good milk as will ma^-'e the above into a light241 CAKBS, See. liicher Buns. Mix one pound and a half of dried flour with half a pound of sugar; melt a pound and two ounces of butter in a little warm water; add six spoonfuls of rose-water, and knead the above into a light dough, with half a pint of yeast; then mix five ounces of caraway-comfits in, and put some on them. Gingerbread. Mix with two pounds of flour half a pound of treacle, three quarters of an ounce of caraways, one ounce of ginger finely sifted, and eight ounces of butter. Roll the paste into what form you please, and bake on tins, after having worked it very much, and kept it to rise. If you like sweetmeats, add orange candied; it may be added in small bits. Another sort.—To 3 quarters of a pound of treacle beat one egg strained ; mix 4 ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce of ginger sifted ; of cloves, mace, allspice, and nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce, beaten as fine as possible; coriander and caraway seeds, each a quarter of an ounce; melt 1 pound of butter, and mix with the above; and add as much flour as will knead into a pretty stiff paste; then roll it out, and cut into cakes. Bake on tin-plates in a quick oven, A little time will bake them. Of some, drops may be made. ^ good plain sort.—Mix three pounds of flour with half a pound of butter, four ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce of pounded ginger; then make into a paste with one pound and a qtiarter of treacle warm. A good sort without Butter.—Mix 2 pounds of trea- cle ; of orange, lemon, and citron, and candied ginger, each four ounces, all thinly sliced ; one ounce of corian- der seeds, one ounce of caraways, and one ounce of beaten ginger, in as much flour as will make a soft paste;DOMESTIC COOKERY. •212 lay it in cakes on tin-plates, and bake it in a quick oven. Keep it dry in a covered earthen vessel, and it will be good for some months. Note. If cakes or biscuits be kept in paper, or a drawer, the taste will be disagreeable. A pan and cover, or tureen, will preserve them long and moist.—Or, if to be crisp, laying them before the fire w'illmake them so. Rufths. Beat seven eggs well, and mix with half a pint of new milk, in whicli have been melted 4 ounces of butter; add to it a quarter of a pint of yeast, and three ounces of sugar, and put them, by degrees, into as much flour as will make a fer?/light paste, rather like a batter, and let it rise before the fire half an hour ; then add some more flour, to make it a little stiff'er, but not stiff. Work it well, and divide it into small loaves, or cakes, about five or six inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and put them in the oven to brown a little. Note. The cakes, when first baked, eat deliciously buttered for tea; or, with caraways, to eat cold. To make Yeast. Thicken two quarts of water with fine flour, about three spoonfids, boil half an hour, sweeten with near half a pound of brown sugar; when near cold, put into it four spoonfuls of fresh yeast in a jug, shake it well to- gether, and let it stand one day to ferment near the fire, without being covered. There will be a thin liquor on the top, which must be poured off; shake the remainder, and cork it up for use. Take always four spoonfuls of the old to ferment the next quantity, keeping it always in succession. A half-peck loaf will require about a gill. Another way.—Boil 1 pound of potatoes to a mash; when half cold, add a cupful of yeast, and mix it well. It will be ready for use in two or three hours, and keeps well. Use double the quantity of this to what you do of Leer-yeast.243 BUEAD, See. To take ofT the bitter of j’east, put bran into a sieve, and pour it tlirough, having first mixed a little warm water with it. To make Bread. Let flour be kept four or five weeks before it is begun to bake with. Put half a bushel of good flour into a trough, or kneading-tub ; mix with it between four and five quarts of warm water, and a pint and a half of good yeast; put it into the flour, and stir it well with your hands till it becomes tough. Let it rise about an hour and twenty minutes, or less if it rises fast; then, before it falls, add four more quarts of waim water, and half a pound of salt; work it well, and cover it with a cloth. Put the fire then into the oven ; and by the time it is w'arm enough, the dough will be ready. Make the loaves about five pounds each ; sweep out tlie oven very clean and quick, and put in the bread; shut it up close, and two hours and a half will bake it. In summer the water should be milk-warm, in winter a little more, and in frosty weather as hot as you can well bear your hand in, but not scalding, or the whole will be spoiled. If baked in tins, the crust will be very nice. The oven should be round, not long; the roof from *wenty to twenty-four inches high, the mouth small, and the door of iron, to shut close. This construction will save firing and time, and bake better than long and high-roofed ovens. Rolls, muffins, or any sort of bread, may be made to taste new when two or three days old, by dipping them uncut in water, and baking afresh or toasting. jfmericayi Flour Requires almost twice as much water to make it intc bread as is used for English flour, and therefore it if more profitable; for a stone of the American, which weighs fourteen pounds, will make twenty-one pounds and a half of bread, but the best sort of English flour produces only eighteen pounds and a half.DOMLSTIC COOKtUT. 24-} The Reverend Mr. Ilagget's economical Bread. Only the coarse flake-bran is to be removed from the floui ; of this take five pounds, and boil it in rather more than four gallons of water; so that when perfectly smooth, you may have three gallons and three quarts of bran-water clear. With this knead fifty-six pounds of the flour, adding salt and yeast in the same way and proportions as for other bread. When ready to bake, divide it into loaves, and bake them two hours and a half. Thus made, flour will imbibe three quarts more of bran-water than of plain; so that it not only produces a more nutritious substantial food, but makes an increase of one-fifth of the usual quantity of bread, which is a saving of one day’s consumption out of six ; and if this was adopted throughout the kingdom, it would make a aving of ten millions sterling a year, when wheat was at he price it stood in the scarcity, reckoning the con- sumption to be 2 hundred thousand bushels a day. The same quantity of flour which, kneaded with water, produces sixty-nine pounds eightounces of bread, will, in the above way, make eighty-three pounds eight ounces, and gain fourteen pounds. At the ordinary price of flour four millions would be saved. When ten days old, if put into the oven for twenty minutes, this bread will appear quite new again. Rice-and-Wheat Bread. Simmer a pound of rice in two quarts df water till it becomes perfectly sofc; when it is of a proper warmth, mix it extremely well with four pounds of flour, and yeast and salt as for other bread; of yeast about four large spoonful; knead it extremely well; then set it to rise before the fire. Some of the flour should be re- served to make up the loaves. The whole expense, in- cluding baking, will not exceeed three shillings, for which eight pounds and a half of exceeding good bread will be produced. If the rice should require more water, it must be added, as some rice swells more than others.245 BREAD, kc. French Bread. With a quarter of a peck of fine flour mix the yolks of three and whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, a little salt, half a pint of good yeast that is not bitter, and as much milk, made a little warm, as will work into a thin light dough. Stir it about, but don’t knead it. Have ready three quart wooden dishes, divide the dough among them, set to rise, then turn them out into the oven, which must be quick. Rasp when done. To discover tchelher Bread has been adulterated uith whiting or chalk. Mix it withlemon-juice, or strong vinegar, and ifthis puts it into a state of fermentation, you may be certain it has a mixture of alkaline particles; and these are sometimes in large quantities in bakers’ bread. To detect BoJies, Jalap, wishes, ^-c. in Bread. Slice a large loaf very thin, the crumb only ; set it over the fire with water, and let it boil gently a long time; take it off, and pour the water into a vessel; let it stand till near cold ; then pour it gently out, and in the sediment will be seen the ingredients which have been mixed. The alum will be dissolved in the water, and may be extracted from it. If jalap has been used, it will form a thick film at top, and the heavy ingredi- ents will sink to the bottom. Excellent Rolls. Warm one ounce of butter in half a pint of milk, put to it a spoonful and a half of yeast of small beer, and a little salt. Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and mix in the above. Let it rise an hour ; knead it well; make into seven rolls, and bake in a quick oven. If made in cakes three inches thick, sliced and buttered, they resemble Sally Lumm’s, as made at Bath. The foregoing receipt, with the addition of a little saffron boiled in half a tea-cupful of milk, makes remarkably good. French Rolls. Rub an ounce of butter into a pound of flour; mixDOMESTIC COOKERY. 246 one egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and as much milk as will make a dough of a middling stiff- ness. Beat it well, but do not knead ; let it rise and bake on tins. Brentford Rolls. Mix with two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and two eggs beaten with two spoonfuls of yeast, arid about a pint of milk. Knead the dough well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make twelve rolls, butter tin-plates, and set them before the fire to rise, till they become of a proper size ; then bake half an hour. Potatoe Rolls. Boil three pounds of potatoes, bruise and work them with two ounces of butter, and as much milk as will make them pass through a colander. Take half or three quarters of a pint of yeast, and half a pint of warm water, mix with the potatoes, then pour the whole upon five pounds of flonr, and add some salt. Knead it well: if not of a proper consistence, put a little more milk and water warm; let it stand before the fire an hour to rise; work it well, and make into rolls. Bake about half an hour in an oven not quite so hot as for bread. They eat well toasted and buttered. Muffins. Mix two pounds of flour with two eggs, two ounces of butter melted in a pint of milk, and four or five spoonfuls of yeast; beat it thoroughly, and set it to rise two or three hours. Bake on a hot hearth in flat cakes. When done on one side turn them. Note.—Muffins, rolls, or bread, if stale, may be made to taste new, by dipping in cold water, and toasting, or heating in an oven, or Dutch oven, till the outside be crisp. Vor/ishire Cake. Take two pounds of flour, and mix with it fonr ounces of butter melted in a pint of good milk, three spoonfuls of yeast, and two eggs : beat all well together.247 HOME-BREWERY. anti let it rise; then knead it, and make into cakes; let them rise on tins before you bake, which do in a slow oven. Another sort is made as above, leaving out the butter. The first is a shorter sort; the last lighter. Hard Biscuits. Warm two ounces of butter in as much skimmed milk as will make a pound of flour into a very stiff paste, beat it with a rolling-^in, and work it very smooth. Roll it thin, and cut it into round biscuits ; prick them fnlloi holes with a fork. About six minutes will bake them. Plain and very crisp Biscuits. Make a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, and some milk, into a very stiff paste; beat it well, and knead til] quite smooth; roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Bake them in a slow oven till quite dry and crisp. PART X. PIOME-BREWERY, WINES, &c. To brew very Jine Welch Ale. POUR forty-two gallons of water hot, but not quite boiling, on eight bushels of malt, cover and let it stand three hours. In the mean time infuse four pounds of hops in a little hot water, and put the water and hops into the tub, and run the wort upon them, and boil them together three hours. Strain off the hops, and keep for the small beer. Let the wort stand in a high tub till cool enough to receive the yeast, of which put two quarts of ale, or if you cannot get it, of small beer yeast. Mix it thoroughly and often. When the wort has done working the second or third day, the yeast will sink ra- therthan rise in the middle, remove it then, and tun the ale as it works out; pour a quart in at a time, and gently, to prevent the fermentation from continuing too long, which weakens the liquor. Put a bit of paper over the bung-hole two or three days before stopping up.■DOMESTIC COOKERY. 248 Strong Beer or Ale. Twelve bushels of malt to the hogshead for beer, (or fourteen if you wish it of a very good body) eight for ale ; for either pour the whole quantity of water hot, but not boiling, on at once, and let it infuse three hours close-covered; mash it in the first half hour, and let it stand the remainder of the time, Hun it on the hops previously infused in water ; for strong beer three quarters of a pound to a bushel; if for ale, half a pound. Boil them with the wort two hours from the time it be- gins to boil. Cool a pailful to add three quarts ofyeast to, which will prepare it for putting to the rest when ready next day ; but if possible put together the same night. Tun as usual. Cover the bung-hole with paper when the beer has done working; and when it is to be stopped, have ready a pound and a half of hops dried before the fire, put them into the bung-hole, and fasten it up. Let it stand 12 months in casks, and 12 in bot- tles before it be drank. It will keep fine 8 or 10 years. It should be brewed the beginning of March. Great cai'e must be taken that the bottles are per- fectly prepared, and that the corks are of the best sort. The ale will be ready in three or four months ; and if the vent peg never be removed, it will have spirit and strength to the very last. Allow two gallons of water at first for waste. After the beer or ale has inn from the grains, pour a hogshead and half for the twelve bushels, and a hogs- head of water if eight were brewed ; mash, and let stand, and then boil, &c. Use some of the hops for this table-beer that were boiled for the strong. When thunder or hot weather causes beer to turn scrur, a tea-spoonful, or more, if required, of salt of wormwood put into the jug, will rectify it. Let it be drawn just before it is drunk or it will taste flat. Excellent Table Beer. On three bushels of malt pour of hot water the third of the quantity you are to use, which is to be thirty-nine 'aliens. Cover it warm half an hour, then mash, andIIOMli-UUEAVERY. 249 let it stand two hours and a half more, then set it to drain. When dry, add half the remaining water, mash, and let it stand half an hour, run that into another tub, and pour the rest of the water on the malt, stir it well, and cover it, letting it infuse a full hour. Hun that off, and mix all together. A pound and a half of hops should oe infused in water, as in the former receipt, and be put into the tub lor the first running. Boil the hops u ith the wort an hour from the time it first boils. Strain off’ and cool. If the whole be not cool enough that day to add to the yeast, a pail or two of wort may be pi'epared, and a cpiart of yeast put to it over night. Before tunning, all the wort should be added to- gether, and thoroughly mixed with the lade-pail. When the wort ceases to work, put a bit of paper on the bung- hole for three days, when it may be safely fastened close. In three or four weeks the beer will be fit for drinking. .Vote. Servants should be directed to put a cork into every barrel as soon iis the cock is taken out, and to fasten in the vent-peg, the air causing casks to become musty. To refine Beer, Ale, f^Tine, or Cyder. Put two ounces of isinglass shavings to soak in a quart of the liquor that you want to clear, beat it with awhisk every day till dissolved. Draw off a third part of the cask, and mix the above with it: likewise a quarter of an ounce of pearl-ashes, one ounce of salt of tartar cal- cined, and one ounce of burnt alum powdered. Stir it well, then return the liquor into the cask, and stir it with a clean stick. Stop it up, and in a few days it will be fine. Extract of Malt for Cotighs. Over half a bushel of pale ground malt, pour asmuch hot, not boiling water, as will just cover it. In forty- eight hours drain off the liquor entirely, but without sq^ieezing the grains ; put the former into a large sweet- meat-pan, or sauce-pan, that there may be room to boil as quick as possible, without boilingover; when it be- gins to thicken stir constantly. It must be as thick as treacle. A desert-spoon thrice a day. I'o preserve l east. 'When you have plenty of yeast, begin to save it in the250 DOJIESTIC COOKEllY. following manner; whisk it until it becomes thin, then take a new large wooden dish, wash it very nicely, and when quite dry, lay a layer of yeast over the inside with a soft brush ; let it dry, then put another layer in the same manner, and so do until you have a sufficient quan- tity, observing that each coat dry thoroughly before ano- ther be added. It may be put on two or three inches thick, and will keep several months; when to be used, cut a piece out; stir it in warm water.—If to be used, for brewing, keep it by dipping large handfuls of birch tied together; and when dry, repeat the dipping once. You may thus do as many as you please ; but take care that no dust comes to them, or the vessel in which it has been prepared as before. When the wort is set to work, throw into it one of these bunches, and it will do as well as with fresh yeast; but if mixed with a small quantity first and then added to the whole, it will work, sooner. Remarks on English JVines, English wines would be found particularly useful, now foreign are so high-priced; and though sugar is dear, they may be made at a quarter of the expense. If care- fully made, and kept three or four years, a proportion- able strength being given, they would answer the pur- pose of Ibreign wines for health, and cause a very con- siderable reduction in the expenditure. yt rich and pleasant Whie, Take new cyder from the press, mix it w-ith as much honey as will support an egg, boil gently fifteen minutes, but not in an iron, brass, or copper pot. Skim it well; when cool, let it be tunned, but don’t quite fill. In March following bottle it, and it will be fit to drink in si.x weeks ; but will be less sweet if kept longer in the cask. You will have a rich and strong wine, and it will keep w'ell. This will serve for any culinary pur- poses which sack, or sweet wine, is directed for. Honey is a fine ingredient to assist, and render pala- table new' crabbed austere cyder.WINES, &C, 2oi Raupberry trine. To every quart of well-picked raspberries put a quart o£ water ; bruise, and let them stand two days ; strain off the liquor, and to every gallon put 3 pounds of lump sugar; when dissolved put the liquor into a barrel, and when fine, which will be in about 2 months, bottle it, and toeach bottle put a spoonful of brandy, or a glass of wine. Raspberry or Currant Wine. To every three pints of fruit, carefully cleared from mouldy or bad, put one quart of w'ater; bruise, the for- mer. In twenty-four hours strain the liquor, and put to every quart a pound of sugar, of good middling quality of Lisbon. If for white currants, use lump-sugar. It is best to put the fruit. Sec. in a large pan, and when in three or four days the scum rises, take that off before the liquor be put into the barrel.—Those who make from their own gardens may not have a sufficiency to fill the barrel at once; the wine will not hurt if made in the pan, in the above proportions, and added as the fruit ripens,, and can be gathered in dry weather. Keep an account of what is put in each time. Another way.—Put five quarts of currants, and a pint of raspberries, to every two gallons of water; let them soak a night; then squeeze and break them well. Next day rub them w'ell on a fine wire sieve, till all the juice is obtained, washing the skins again with some of the water; then to every gallon put four pounds of very good Lisbon sugar, but not white, which is often adulterated; tun it immediately, and lay the bung lightly on. Do not use anything to work it. In two or three days put a bottle of brandy to every four gal- lons ; bung it close, but leave the peg out at top a lew davs; keep it three years, and it will be a very fine igreeable wine ; four years would make it still better. Black Currant Wine, very fine. To every three quarts of juice, put the same of water unboiled; and to every three quarts of the liquor, addDOMESTIC COOKERY. 252 three pounds of very pure moist sugar. Put in into a cask, preserving a little for filling up. Put the cask in a warm dry room, and the liquor will ferment of itself. Skim off the refuse, when the fermentation shall be over, and fill up with the reserved liquor. When it has ceased working, pour three quarts of brandy to forty quarts of wine. Bung it close for nine months, then bottle it, and drain the thick part through a jelly-bag, until it be clear, and bottle that. Keep it ten or twelve months. Excellent Ginger Wine. Fut into a very nice boiler ten gallons of water, fifteen pounds of lump-sugar, with the whites of six or eight eggs well beaten and strained ; mix all well while cold, when the liquor boils skim it well; put in half a pound of common white ginger bruised, boil it twenty minutes. Have ready the very thin rinds of seven lemons, and pour the liquor on them ; when cool, tun it with two spoonfuls of yeast; put a quart of the liquor to two ounces of isinglass shavings, while warm, whisk it well three or four times, and pour all together into the barrel. Next day stop it up; in three weeks bottle, and in three months it will be a delicious and refresh- ing liquor; and though very cool, perfectly safe. Another.—Boil 9 quarts of water with 6 pounds of lump-sugar, the rinds of2 or 3 lemons very thinly pared, with two ounces of bruised white ginger half an hour ; skim. Put three quarters of a pound of raisins into the cask; when the liquor is lukewarm, tun it with the juice of 2 lemons strained, and a spoonful and a half of yeast. Stir it daily, then put in half a pint of brandy, and half an ounce of isinglass shavings ; stop it up, and bottle it six or seven weeks. Do not put the lemon- peel in the barrel. Orange Wine. To five gallons of spring water, put fifteen pounds of loaf sugar, and the whites of three eggs, well beaten, let it boil for a quarter of an hour, and as the scum rises, take it off, when cold add the juice of 60 SevilleIr WINES, &c. 253 oranges and 5 lemons; pare 10 oranges and 5 lemons as thin as possible, put them on thread, and suspend them m the barrel for 2 months, then take them out, and put in a pound of loaf sugar, and bung it up. Excellent Cowslip Wine. To every gallon of water, weigh three pounds of lump- sugar, boil the quantity half an hour, taking off the scum as it rises. When cool enough, put to it a crust of toasted bread dipped in thick yeast, let the liquor ferment in the tub thirty-six hours ; then into the cask put for every gallon the peel of two and rind of one lemon, and both of one Seville orange, and one gallon of cowslip-pips, then pour on them the liquor. It must be carefully stirred every day for a week ; then to every five gallons put in a bottle of brandy. Let the cask be close stopped, and stand only six weeks before you bottle off. Observe to use the best corks. Elder Wine. To every quart of berries put two quarts of water, hail half an hour, run the liquor, and break the fruit through a hair sieve ; then to every quart of juice, put three quarters of a pound of Lisbon sugar, coarse, but not the very coarsest. Boil the whole a quarter of an hour with some Jamaica peppers, ginger, and a few cloves. Pour it into a tub, and when of a proper warmth, into the bar- rel, with toast and yeast to work, which there is more difficulty to make it do than most other liquors. V/hen it ceases to hiss, put a quart of brandy to eight gallons, and stop up. Bottle in the spring or at Christmas. Tiie liquor must be in a warm place to make it work. White Elder Wine, venj much like Froyitiniuc. Boil eighteen pounds of white powder sugar, with .six gallons of water, and two whites of eggs uell beaten ; then skim it, and put in a quarter of a peck of ehier- flowers from the tree that bears white berries ; don't keep them on the fire. When near cold, stir it, and put in six spoonfuls of lemon-juice, four or five of yeast, and beat well into the liquor; stir it everyday; put si.\ X254 DOMESTIC COOKERY. pounds of the best raisins, stoned, into the cask, and tun the w ine. Stop it close, and bottle in six months. "When well kept, this wine will pass for Frontiniac. Clary Wine. Boil 15 gallons of w’ater, with 45 pounds of sugar,, skim it, when cold put a little to a quarter of a pint of yeast, and so by degrees add a little more. In an hour pour the small quantity to the large, pour the liquor on clary-flowers, picked in the dry ; the quan- tity for the above is twelve quarts. Those w’ho gather from their own garden may not have sufficient to put in at once, and may add as they can get them, keeping account of each quart. When it ceases to hiss, and the flowers are all in, stop it up for four months. Rack it off, empty the barrel of the dregs, and adding a galloi' of the best brandy, stop it up, and let it stand six oi eight weeks, then bottle it. Excellent Raisin Wine. To every gallon of spring-water, put 8 pounds of fresh Smyrnas in a large tub ; stir it thoroughly every day for a month ; then press the raisins in a horse-hair bag as dry as possible; put the liquor into a cask ; and when it has done hissing, pour in a bottle of the best brandy: stop it close for twelve months ; then rack it off, but without the dregs; filter them through a bag of flannel of throe or four folds; add the clear to the quantity, and pour one or tw'o quarts of brandy, ac- cording to the size of the vessel. Stop it up, and at the end of tliree years, you may either bottle it, or drink it from the cask. Raisin wine w'ould be extremely good, if made rich of the fruit, and kept long, which improves the flavour greatly. Raisin JFvie with Cyder. Put two hundred weight of Malaga raisins into a cask, and pour upon them a hogshead of good sound cyder that is not rough; stir it well two or three days ; stop it, and let it stand six months; then rack into a cask tliat it will fill, and put in a gallon of the best brandy.WINES, &c. 255 If raisin wine be much used, it would answer well to keep a cask always for it, and bottle off one year’s w'ine just in time to make the next, which, allowing the six months of infusion, would make the wine to be eighteen months old. In cyder-counties this way is very econo- mical ; and even if not thouglit strong enough, the ad- dition of another quarter of a hundred of raisins would be sufficient, and the wine would still be very cheap. When the raisins are pressed through a horse-hair bag, they will either produce a good spirit by distillation, and must be sent to a chemist who will do it (but if lor that purpose, they must be very little pressed ;) or they will make excellent vinegar, on which article seepage 121. The stalks should be picked out for the above, and may be thrown into any cask of vinegar that is making; be- ing very acid. Raism Wine without Cyder. On four hundred weight of Malagas pour one hogshead of spring-water, stir well daily for fourteen days, then squeeze the raisins in a horse-hair bag in a press, and tun the liquor ; w'hen it ceases to hiss, stop it close. In six months rack it oil' into another cask, or into a tub, and after clearing out the sediment, return it into the same, but don’t wash it; add a gallon of the best brandy, stop it close, and in six months bottle it. Take care of the pressed fruit, for the uses of which refer to the preceding receipt. Sack Mead. To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, and boil it three quarters of an hour, taking care to skim it. To every gallon add an ounce of hops ; then boil it ' half an hour, and let it stand till next day ; put it into your cask, and to thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brandy. Let it be lightly stopped till the fer- mentation is over, and then stop it very close. If you make a large cask, keep it a year in cask. Cowslip Mead. Put thirty pounds of honey into fifteen gallons ofDOMESTIC COOKEUT. 256 water, and boil till one gallon is wasted ; skim it, take it off the fire, and have ready a dozen and a hali’ of le- mons quartered ; pour a gallon of the liquor boiling hot upon them; put the remainder of the liquor into a tub, with seven pecks of cowslip-pips; let them remain there all night, and then put the liquor and the lemons to eight spoonfuls of new yeast, and a handful of sweet- briar : stir all well together, and let it work three or four days. Strain it, and put into the cask : let it stand six months, and then bottle it for keeping. Imperial. Put two ounces of cream of tartar, and the juice and paring of two lemons, into a stone-jar; put on them seven quarts of boiling water, stir and cover close. When cold, sweeten with loaf-sugar, and straining it, bottle and cork it tight This is a very pleasant liquor, and very wholesome ; but from the latter considera- tion was at one time drank in such quantities, as to become injurious. Add, in bottling, half a pint of rum to the whole quantity. Ratafia. Blanch two ounces of peach and apricot kernels, bruise and put them into a bottle, and fill nearly up with brandy. Dissolve half a pound of white sugar- candy in a cup of cold water, and add to the brandy after it has stood a month on the kernels, and they are strained off; then filter through paper, and bottle for use. The leaves of peach and nectarines, when the trees are cut in the s])ring, being distilled, are an ex- cellent substitute for ratafia in puddings. Raspberrij Brandi/. Pick fine dry fruit, put into a stone jar, and the jar into a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, till the juice w ill run ; strain, and to every pint add half a pound of sugar, give one boil, and skim it; when cold put equal quantities of juice and brandy, shake well and bottle. Some people prefer it stronger of the brandy.257 WINES, &C. An excellent Method of making Punch. Take two large fresh lemons with rough skins, quite ripe, and some large lumps of double-refined sugar. Rub the sugar over the lemons till it has absorbed all the yellow part of the skins. Then put into the bowl these lumps, and as much more as the juice of the lemons may be supposed to require ; for no certain weight can be mentioned, as tbe ascidity of a lemo)i cannot be known till tried, and therefore this must be determined by the taste. Then squeeze the lemon-juice upon the sugar ; and with a bruiser press the sugar and the juce particularly well together, for a great deal of the richness and fine flavour of the punch depends on this rubbing and mixing process being thoroughly per- formed. Then mix this np very /veil with boiling water (soft w'ater is best) till the water is rather cool. When this mixture (which is now called the sherbet) is to your taste, take brandy and rum in equal quantities, and put them to it, mixing the whole /veil together again. The quantity of liquor must be according to your taste : two good lemons are generally enough to make four quarts of punch, including a quart of liquor, with half a pound of sugar; but this depends much on taste, and on the strength of the spirit. As the pulp is disagreeable to some persons, the sher- bet may be strained before the liquor is put in. Some strain the lemon before they put it to the sugar, which is improper; as, when the pulp and sugar are well mixed together, it adds much to the richness of the punch. When only rum is used, about half a pint of porter will soften the punch; and even when both rum and brandy are used, the porter gives a richness, and to some a very pleasant flavour. This receipt has never been in print before, but is, greatly admired among the writer’s friends. It is im- possible to take too much pains in all the processes of mixing, and in minding to do them extre/nely well, that all the different articles may be most thoroughly incor- porated together.DOMIDSTIC COOKERY. 258 Vendor, or Milk Punch. Pare six oranges, and six lemons, as tliin as you can, grate them after with sugar to get the flavour. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy stopped close twenty- four hours. SojUeeze the fruit on two pounds of sugar, add to it four quarts of water, and one of new milk boiling hot; stir the rum into the above, and run it through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear. Pottle, and cork close immediately. Norfolk Pujich. Tn twenty quarts of French brandy put the peels of thirty lemons and thirty oranges, pared so thin that not the least of the white is left. Infuse twelve hours. Have ready thirty quarts of cold water that lias boiled ; put to it fifteen pounds of double-refined sugar ; and when well mixed, pour it upon the brandy and peels, adding tlie juice of the oranges and of twenty-four le- mons ; mix well: then strain through a very fine hair- sieve, into a very clean barrel that has lield s|)irits, and put two quarts of new milk. Stir, and then bung it close; let it stand six weeks in a warm cellar; bottle the liquor for use, observing great care that the bottles are perfectly clean and dry, and the corks of the best quality, and well put in. This liquor will keep many years, and improves hy age. Another way.—Pare six lemons and three Seville oranges very thin, squeeze the juice into a large tea- pot, )iut to it two quarts of brandy, one of white-wine, and one of milk, and one pound and a quarter of sugar. Let it be mixed, and then covered for t"enty-tbur hours, strain through a jelly-bag till clear, then bottle it. While Currant Shrub. Strip the fruit, and prepare in a jar as for jellv ; strain the juice, of which put two quarts to one gallon of rum, and two pounds of lump-sugar; strain through a jelly-bag.^59 PART XL DAIRY, AND POULTRY. DAIRY. The servants of each country are generally acquainted with the best mode of managing the butter and cheese ot that country ; but the following hints may not be unac- ceptable, to give information to the mistress. On the Management of Cows, ^-c. Cows should be carefully treated ; if their teats are sore, they shouhi be soaked in warm water twice a day, and either be dressed with soft ointment, or done with spirit and water. If the former, great cleanliness is necessary. The milk, at these times, should be given to the pigs. When the milk is brought into the dairy, it should be strained and emptied into clean jians immediately in winter, but not till cool in summer. White ware is preferable, as the red is porous, and cannot be so thoroughly scalded. The greatest possible attention must be paid to great cleanliness in adairy ; all the utensils, shelves, dressers, and the floor, should be kept with the most perfect neat- ness, and cold water thrown over every part very often. There should be shutters to keep out the sun and the hot air. Meat hung in a dairy will spnil milk. The cows should be milked at a regular and early hour, and the udtiers emptied, or the quantity will de- crease. The quantity ofm Ik depends on many causes; as the goodness, breed, ar.d health of the cow, the pas- ture, the length of time from calving, the having plenty of clean water in the field she feeds in, &c. A changeDOMESTIC COOKERY. 260 of pasture will tend to increase it. People who attend properly to the dairy will feed the cows particularly well two or three weeks before they calve, which makes the milk more abundant after. In gentlemens’ dairiesmore attention is ])aid to the size and beauty ol the cows than 10 their produce, which dairymen look most to. For making cheese the cows should calve from Lady- Day to May, that the large quantity of milk may come into use about the same time ; but in gentlemens’ fami- lies one or two should calve in August or September for a supply in winter. In good pastures, the average pro- duce of a dairy is about thee gallons a day each cow, from Lady-Day to Michaelmas, and from thence to Christmas one gallon a day. Cows will he profitable milkers to fourteen or fifteen years of age, if of a proper breed. When a calf is to be reared, it should he taken from the cow in a weak at furthest, or it will cause great trouble in rearing, because it will be difficult to make it take milk in a pan. Take it from the cow in the morning, and keep it without food till the next morn- ing; and then, being hungry, it will drink without difficulty. Skimmed milk and fresh whey, just as warm as new milk, should be given twice a day in such quantity as is required. If milk runs short, smooth gruel mixed with milk will do. At first, let the calf be out only by day, and feed it at night and morning. When the family is absent, or there is not a great call for cream, a careful dairy-maid seizes the opportunity to provide for the winter-store : she should have a book to keep an account, or get some one to write down for her the produce of every week, and set down what butter she pots. The weight the pot will hold should be marked on each in making at the pottery. In another part of the book should be stated the poultry reared in one leaf, and the weekly consumption in another part. Observations respecting Cheese. This well-known article dilfers according to the pasture261 DAIRY. in wliich the cows feed. Various modes of preparing may effect a great deal : and it will be bad or good ofils kind, by being in unskilful bands or the contrary ; but much will still depend on the former circumstance. The same land rarely makes very fine butter, and re- markably fine cbe» se; yet due care may give one pretty good, when the other excells in quality. When one is not as fine as the other, attention and change of method may amend the inl’erior. There is usually, however, too much prejudice in the minds of dairy people, to make them give up an old custom for one newly recommended. This calls for the eyeofthe superior. A gentleman has been at the expense of pro- curing cattle from every county noted for good cheese, and it is affirmed that the Cheshire, double Gloucester, North Wiltshire, Chedder, and many other sorts are so excellent as not to discredit their names. As tlie cows are all on one estate, it should seem that the mode of making must be a principal cause of the differ- ence in flavour ; besides, there is much in the size and manner of keeping. Clieese made on the same ground, ofnew, skimmed, or mixed milk, will differ greatly, not in richness only, but also in taste. Those wdio directa dairy in a gentle- man’s family, should consider in which way it can be managed to the best advantage. Even with few cows, cheeses of value may be made from a tolerable pasture, by taking the whole of two meals of milk, and propor- tioning the thickvess of the vot to the quantity, rather than having a wide and flat one, as the former will be most mellow. The addition of a pound of fresh-made butter, of a good quality, will cause the cheese made on poor land to be of a very diff erent quality from that usually produced by it. A few cheeses thus made, when the weather is not extremely hot, and when the cows are in full feed, will be very advantageous for theuse of the parlour. Cheese for common family-use will he very well produced by2G2 DOMrSTlC COOKERY. two meals of skim, and one of new milk ; or in good land, by skim-milk only. Butter 1 kewise should be made, and potted down for winter-use. but not to inter- fere vvith the cheese as above, which will not take much time. To prepare Rennet, to turn the Milk. Take out the stomach of a calf as soon as killed, and scour it insideand out with salt, after it is cleared ofthe curd always found in it. Let it drain a few hours ; then sew it up with two good handfuls of saltin it, or stretch it on a stick well salted ; or keep it in the salt wet, and soak a bit, which will do over and over 1)V fresh water. .Another way.—Clean the maw as above ; next day take two (quarts of fresh spring-w'ater, and put into it a handful ot hawthorn-tops, a handful of sweet-briar, a handful of rose-leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted marjoram, and twm large spoonfuls of salt. Let them boil gently to three pints of water; strain it off; and when only milk- warm, pour it on the veil (that is, the maw). Slice a lemon into it; let itstajid twm days ; strain it again, and bottle it for use. it will keep good at least twelve months, and has a very fine flavour. You may add any sweet aromatic herbs to the above It must be pretty salt, but not brine. A little will do for turning. Salt the veil again for a week or two. and drv it stretched on sticks crossed, and it will be near as strong as ever. Don’t keep it in a hot place when dry. To make Cheese. Put the milk into a large tub, warming a part till itis of a degree of heat quite equal to new ; if too hot the cheese will be tough. Put in as mueh rennet as wdll turn it, and cover it over. Let it stand till comjfletely turned ; then strike the curd down several times with the skim- ming dish, and let it separate, still CMvering it. There are two modes ofhreaking the curd ; and there will be a difference in the taste ofthe cheese, according as either is obsert'ed ; one is, to gather it with the hands very2C3 DAIRT. gently towards the side ofthe tuh, letting tlie Mhey l>nss through the fingers till it is cleared, and lading it off as it collects. The other is. to get the whey from it by early breaking the curd ; the last method deprives it of many of its oily particles, and is therel(>re less proper. Put the vat on a ladder over the tub, and fill it with curd by the skimmer; press the cnrd close with your hand, and add more as it sinks ; and it most be finally left two inches above the edge, before the vat is filled, the cheese-cloth must be laid at the bottom : and when full, drawn smooth over on all side®. There are two modes ofsalting cheese : one by mix- ing it in the curd while in the tub alter the whey is out; and the other by putting it into the vat and crumbling the curd all to pieces with it, after the first squeezing with the hands has dried it. The first method appears best on some accounts, but not on all, and therefore the custom of the country imret direct. Put a board under and over the vat, and place it in the press ; in two hours turn it out and put a fresh cheese-cloth ; press it again fur 8 or 9 hours ; then salt it all over, and turn it again in the vat, and let it stand in the press fourteen or sixteen hours, observing to j)iit the cheeses last made nudermost. Before putting them the last time into the vat, pare the edges if they do not look smooth. The vat should have holes at the sides and at bottom to let all the whey pass through. Put on clean boards_ and change and scald them. To preserve Cheese sound. Wash in warm u hey, when you have any, and wipe it once a month, and keep it it on a rack. If you wantto ripen it, a damp cellar will bring it forward. When a whole cheese is cut, the larger quantity sh< uld be spread with butter inside, and the outside wiped topreserve it. To keep those in daily use, moist, let a cl an cloth be wrung out from cold water, and wrapt round them when carried from table. Dry cheese may be used to advantage to grate for servins; wiih macaroni or eating w ithout. These observations are made with a view to2G4 DOMESTIC COOKERY. make the above articles less expensive, as in most families where much is used there is waste. To make Sage Cheese. Bruise the tops of young red sage in a mortar, with some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice ; mix it with the rennet in the milk, more or less according as you like for colour and taste. When the curd is come, break it gently, and put it in with the .skimmer, till it is pressed two inches above one vat. Press it eight or ten hours. Salt it, and turn every day. Cream Cheese. Put five quarts of strippings, that is, the last of the milk, into a pan, with two spoonfuls of rennet. When the curd is come, strike it do\vn two or three times with the skimming-dish just to bi'eak it. Let it stand two hours, then spread a cheese-cloth on a sieve, put the curd on it, and let the whey drain ; break the curd a little with your hand, and put it into a vat with a two pound weight upon it. Let it stand twelve hours, take it out, and bind a fillet round. Turn every day till dry, from one board to another; cover them widi nettles, or clean dock-leaves, and put between two pewter-plates to ripen. If the weather be warm, it will be ready in three weeks. jlnotlu’T.—Have ready a kettle of boiling w'ater, put five quarts of new milk into a pan, and j^re -pints of cold water, and jicc ofhot; when of a j)roper heat, put in as much rennet as will bring it in twenty minutes, like- wise a bit of supir. 'When come, strike the skimmer three or four times down, and leave it on the curd. In. an hour or two lade it into the vat without touching it; put a two pound weight on it when the whey has run from it, and the vat is full. Another sort.—Put as much salt to three pints of raw cream as shall season it: stir it well, and pour it into a sieve in which you have folded a cheese-ckdh three or lour times, and laid at the bottom. When it hardens, cover it with nettles on a pewter-plate.265 DAIRY. To a quart of fresh cream put a pint of new milk warm enough to make the cream a proper warmth, a bit of sugar, and a little rennet. Set near the fire till the curd comes ; fill a vat made in the form of a brick, of wheat-straw or rushes sewed together. Have ready a square of straw, or rushes sewed flat, to rest the vat on, and another to cover it; the vat being open at top and bcdtom. Next day take it out, and change it as above, to ripen. A half-pound weight will be sufficient to put on it. Another waij.-—Take a pint of very thick sour cream from the top of the pan for gathering butter, lay a nap- kin on two plates, and pour half into each, let them stand twelve hours, then put them on a fresh wet nap- kin in one plate, and cover with the same ; this do every twelve hours until you find the cheese begins to look dry, then ripen it with nut-leaves ; it will be ready in ten days. Fresh nettles,or two pewter-plates, will ripen cream- cheese very well. Observalioyis respecting Butler. There is no one article of family consumption more in use, of great variety in goodness, or that is of more consequence to have of a superior quality, than this, and the economising of which is more necessary. 'I’ho sweetness of butter is not affected by the cream being turned, of which it is made. When cows are in turnips, or eat cabbages, the taste is very disagreeable; and the following ways have been tried with advantage to ob- viate it:— When the milk is strained into the pans, put toevery six gallons one gallon of boiling water. Or dissolve one once of nitre in a pint of spnr.g-water, and put a quar- ter of a pint to every fifteen gallons of milk. Or, when vou churn, keep back a quarter of a pint of the sour cream, and put it into a well-scalded pot, into which you are to gather the next cream; stir that w'ell, and do so with every fresh addition.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 266 To make Balter, During summer, skim the milk wlien the sun has not heated the dairy ; at tl'.at season it should stand for butter twenty-lour hours without skimming, and forty- eight in winter. Deposit the cream-pot in a very cold cellar, if your dairy is not more so. If you cannot churn daily change it into scalded fresh pots ; but never omit churning twice a week. If possible, put the churn in a thorough air; and if not a barrel one, set it in a tub of water two feet deep, which will give firmness to the butter. When the butter is come, pour off the butter- milk, and put the butter into a fresh-scalded pan, or tubs which have afterwards been in cold water. Pour water on it, and let it lie to acquire some hardness be- fore you work it; then change the water, and beat it with flat boards so perfectly that not the least taste of the buttermilk remain, and that the w'ater, which must be often changed, shall be quite clear in colour. Then work some salt into it, weigh, and make it into forms; throw them into cold water, in an earthen pan and cover of the queen’s w are. You will then have very nice and cool butter in the hottest weather. It requires more working in hot than in cold weather; but in neither should be left with a particle of buttermilk, or a sour taste, as is sometimes done. To preserve buiter. Take two parts of the best common salt, one part good loaf sugar, and one part saltpetre; beat them rvcll together. To sixteen ounces of butter thoroughly cleansed from the milk, put one ounce of this compo- sition ; w’ork it well, and pot down, when become firm and cold. The butter thus preserved is the better for keeping, and should not be used under a month. This article sliould be kept from the air, and is best in pots of tho best glazed earth, that will liold from ten to pounds, each.DAIRY. 2G7 To preserve Butler for Winter, the best teat/. AVhen the butter has been prepared as above directed, take two parts of the best common salt, one part good loaf-sugar, and one part of saltpetre, beaten and blended well together. Of this composition put one ounce to sixteen ounces of butter, and work it well together in a mass. Press it into the pans after the butter is become cool; for friction, though it be not touched by the hands, will soften it. The pans should hold ten or twelve pounds each. On the top put some salt; and when that is turned to brine, if not enough to cover the butter entirely, add some strong salt and water. It requires only then to be covered from the dust. To manage Cream for Whey Butter. Set the whey one day and night, skim it, and so till you have enough; then boil it and pour it into a pan or two of cold water. As the cream rises, skim it till no more comes; then churn it. Where new-milk cheese is made daily, whey-butter for common and i>re- eent use may be made to advantage. To scald Cream, as in the West of England. In winter let the milk stand twenty-four hours, in the summer twelve at least; then put the milk-pan on an. liot hearth, if you have one ; if not, set it in a wide brass, kettle of water, large enough to receive the pan. It must remain on the fire till quite hot, but on no account boil, or there will be a skin instead of a cream upon the milk. You will know when done enough, by the undulations, on the surface looking thick, and having a ring round the pan the size of the bottom. The time required ta scald cream depends on the size of the pan and the heat of the fire; the slower the better. Kemove the pan into the dairy when done, and skim it next day. In cold weather it may stand thirty-six hours, and never less than two meals. The butter is usually made in Devonshire of cream thus prepared, and. if properly it very firm.UOIIKSTIC COOKERY. 2G8 Butlermilk, If made of sweet cream, is a delicious and most whole- some food. Those who can relish sour buttermilk, find it still more light; and it is reckoned more beneficial in consumptive cases. Buttermilk, if not very sour, is also as good as cream to eat with fruit, if sweetened with white sugar, and mixed with a very little milk. It likewise does equally for cakes and rice-puddings, and of course it is economical to churn before the cream is too stale for any thing but to feed pigs. To keep Alilk and Cream. In hot weather, when it is difficult to preserve milk from becoming sour, and spoiling the cream, it may be kept perfectly sweet by scalding the new milk very gently, without boiling, and setting it by in the earthen dish, or pan that it is done in. This method is pursued in Devonshire, and for butter, and eating, w'ould equally finswer in small quantities for coffee, tea, &c. Cream already skimmed may be kept twenty-four hours if scalded without sugar ; and by adding to it as much powdered lump-sugar as shall make it prett)’- sweet, will be good two days, keeping it in a cool place. St/rup of Cream May be preserved as above in the proportion of a pound and quarter of sugar to a pint of perfectly fresh cream ; keep it in a cool place two or three hours; then put it in one or two ounce phials, and cork it close. It will keep good thus for several weeks, and will be found very useful on voyages. Cullino Cards and Whey, as in Italy, Take a number of the rough coats that line the giz- zards of turkeys and fowls ; clean them from the pebbles they contain; rub them well with sale, and hang them to dry. Tliis makes a more tender and delicate curd than common rennet. When to be used, break off some bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling water : i.’i eight or nine hours use the liquor as you do other rennet.l^OULTRY-YARD, ^69 To choose Butter at Market. Put a knife into the butter if salt, and smell it when drawn out; if there is any thing rancid or unpleasant, it is bad. Being made at different times, the layers i« casks will vary greatly, and you will not easily come at the goodness but by unhooping the cask, and trying i"! between the staves. Fresh butter ought to smell like r. nosegay, and be of an equal colour all through : if sour in smell it has not been sufficiently washed; if veiny and open, k is probably mixed with staler or an inferior sort. POULTRY-YARD. Management of Fowls. In order to have fine fowls, it is necessary to choose a good breed, and have proper care taken of them. The Dartford sort is thought highly of; and it is desirable to have a fine large kind, but people differ in their opinion of which is best. The black are very juicy; but do not answer so well for boiling, as their legs partake of their colour. They should be fed as nearly as possible at the same hour and place. Potatoes boiled, unskinned, in a little water, and then cut, and either wet with skimmed milk or not, form one of the best foods. Turkies and fowls thrive amazingly on them. The milk must not be sour. The best age for setting a hen, is from two to five years ; and you should remark which hens make the best brooders, and keep those to laying who are giddy and careless of their young. In justice to the animal crea- tion, however, it must be observed, there are but few instances of bad parents for the time their nursing is necessary. Hens sit twenty days. Convenient places should be provided for their laying, as these will be proper for sit- ting likewise. If the hen-house is notsecured from ver- min, the eggs will be sucked, and the fowls destroyed. Those hens are usually preferred which have tufts of feathers on their heads ; those that crow are not looked YDOilESTIC COOKEnV, 270 tipon as profitable. Some fine)j3ung fowls should be rear- ed every year, to keep up a stock of good breeders ; and by this attention, and removing bad layers and careless nurses, you will have a chance of a good stock. Let the hens lay some time before you set them, which should be done from the end of February to the beginning of May. While hens are laying, feed them well, and sometimes with oats. Broods of chickens, are hatched all through the sum- mer, but those that come out very late require much care till they have gained some strength. If the eggs ofany other sort are put under the hen with some of her own, observe to add her own as many days after the others, as there is a difference in the length of their sitting. A turkey and duck sit thirty days. Choose large clear eggs to put her upon, and such a number ns she can properly cover. If very large eggs, there are sometimes two yolks, and of course neither will be productive. Ten or twelve are quite enough. A hen-house should be large and highand sliouhl be frequently cleaned out, or the vermin of fowls will in- crease greatly. But hens must not be disturbed while sitting ; for if frightened, they sometimes forsake their nests. Wormwood and rue should be planted plentifully about their houses: boil some of the former, and sprinkle itabout the floor ; which should be of smooth earth, not paved. The windowsofthe house should be open to the rising sun : and a hole must be left at the door, to let the smaller fowls go in ; the larger may be let in and out by opening the door. There should be a small sliding board to shut down when the fowls are gone to roost; which would prevent the small beasts of prey from com- mitting ravages, and a good strong door and lock may ])Ossibly, in some measure, prevent the depredations, of human enemies. When some of the chickens are hatched long before the others, it may be necessary to keep them in a basket of wool tilt the others come forth. The day after they are hatched, give them some crumbs of white bread,aud271 POULTRY-YAKD. small (or rather cracked) grits soaked in milk. As soon as they have gained a little strength, feed them with curd, cheese-parings cut small, or any soft food, but nothing sour ; and give them clean water twice a day. Keep the hen under a pen till the young have strength to follow her about, which will be in two or three weeks; and be sure to feed her well. The food of fowls goes first into their crop, which softens it; and then passes into the gizzard, which by constant friction macerates it: and this is facilitated by small stones, which are generally found there, and which help to digest the food. If a sitting hen is troubled with vermin, let her be well washed with a decoction of wild lupins. The pip in fowls is occasioned by drinking dirty water, or taking filthy food. A white thin scale on the tongue, is the symptom. Pull the scale off with your nail, and rub the tongue with some salt; and the complaint will be removed. It answers well to pay some boy employed in the farm or stable, so much a score for the eggs he brings in. It will be his interest then to save them from being pur- loined, which nobody but one in hissituation can pre- vent ; and si.xpence or eightpence a score will be buy- ing eggs cheap. To make liens lay. Dissolve an ounce of Glauber’s salts in a quart of water; mix the meal of potatoes with a little of the liquor, and feed thehens two days, giving them plenty of clean water to drink. The above quantity is sufficient for six or eight hens. They should have plenty of clean water in reach. In a few days they will produce eggs. To fatten Fowls or Chickens in four or five Days. Set rice over the fire with skimmed milk, only as much as will serve one day. Let it boil till the rice is quiteswelled out: you may add a tea-spoonful or two of sugar, but it will do well without. Feed them three times a day, in common pans, giving them only as much as will auitefill them at once. When you put fresh, let272 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the pans he set in water, that no sourness may he con- veyed to the fowls, as that jirevents them from fattening. Give them clean water, or the milk of the rice, to drink; hut the less wet the latter is when perfectly soaked, the better. By this method the tiesh will have a clear white- ness which no other food gives ; and when it is con- sidered how far a pound of rice will go, and how much time is saved hy this mode, it wdll he fonnd to he as cheap as harley-meal, or more so. The pen should he daily cleaned, and no food given for sixteen hours be- fore poultry he killed. To choose Eggs at Market, and preserve them. But the large end of the egg to your tongue ; if it feels warm it is new. In new laid eggs, there is a small divi- sion of the skin from the shell, which is filled with air, and is perceptible to the eye at the end. On looking through them against the sun or a candle, if fresh, eggs will he pretty clear. If they shake they are not fresh. Eggsmay be bought cheapest w'hen thehens firstbegin to lay in the spring, before they sit; in Lent and at Easter they become dear. They may he preserved fresh hy dipping them in boiling water and instantly taking them out, or by oiling the shell; either of which ways is to prevent the air passing through it: or kept on shelves with small holes to receive one in each, and be turned every other day; or close-])acked in a keg, and covered with strong lime-water. Feathers. In towns, poultry being usually sold ready picked, the feathers, which may occasionally come in small quanti- ties,are neglected ; but orders should be given to put them into a tub free from damp, and as they dry to change them into paper bags, a few in each ; they should hang in a dry kitchen to season ; fresh ones must not be added to those in part dried, or they will occasion a musty smell, but they should go through the same process. In a few months they will be fit to add to beds, or to make pillows, without the usual mode of drying them in a coolPOULTRY-YARD. 273 oven, which may be pursued if they are wanted before five or six months. Ducks Generally begin to lay in the monthof February. Their eggs should be daily taken away except one, till they seem inclined to sit; then leave them,and see that there are enough. They require no attention while sitting, except to give them food at the time they come out to seek it; and there should be water placed at a moderate distance from them, that their eggs may not be spoiled by their long absence in seeking it. Twelve or thirteen eggs are enough ; in an early season it is best to set them under a hen ; and then they can be kept from water till they have a little strength to bear it, which in very cold weather they cannot do so well. They should be kept under cover, especially in a wet season; for though water is the natural element of ducks, yet they are apt to be killed by the cramp before they are covered with fea- thers to defend them. Ducks shouM be accustomed to feed and rest atone place, which would prevent their straggling too far to lay. Places near the water to lay in are advantageous ; and these might be small wooden houses, with a parti- tion in the middle, and a door at each end. They eat any thing; and when to be fattened, must haveplenty, however coarse, and in three weeks they will be I'at. Geese Require little expense; as they chiefly support them- selves on commons or in lanes, where they can get water. The largest are esteemed best, as also are thewliiie and grey. The pied and dark-coloured are not so good. Thirty days is generally the time the goose sits, but in warm weather she will sometimes hatch sooner. Give them plenty of food, such as scalded bran and light oats; and as soon as the goslings are hatched, keep them housed for eight or ten days, and feed them with barley-meal, bran, curds, &c. For green geese, begin to fatten them at six or seven weeks old, and feed them274 DOMESTIC COOKERY. as above. Stubble geese require no fattening if they have the run of good fields. Turliies Are very tender when young. A.s soon as hatched, piit three pepper-corns down their throat. Great care is necessary to their well-being, because the hen is so care- less that she will walk about with one chick, and leave the remainder, or even tread upon and kill them. Tur- kies are violent eaters ; and must therefore be left to take charge of themselves in general, except one good feed a day. The hen sits twenty-five or thirty days ; and the young ones must be kept warm, or the least cold or damp lulls them. 'J'hey must be fed often ; and at a distance from the hen, who will eat every lliingfrom them. They should have curds, green-cheese parings cut small, and bread and milk with chopped wormwood in it; and tlieir drink milk and water, butnotleftto be sour. All young fowls are a prey for vermin, therefore they should be kept in a safe place where none can come ; weasels, stoats, ferrets, &c. creep in at very small crevices. Let the hen be under a coop, in a warm place exposed to the sun, for the first three or four w'eeks; and the young should not be suffered to go out in the dew at morning or evening. Twelve eggs are enough to put under a turkey ; and when she is about to lay, lock her up till she has laid every morning. They usually begin to lay in March, and sit in April. Feed them near the hen-house; and give them a little meat in the evening, to accustom them to roosting there. Fatten them with sodden oats or barley for the first fortnight; and the last fortnight give them as above, and rice swelled with warm milk over the fire, twice a day. The flesh will be beautifully white and fine-flavoured. The common way is to cram them, but they are so ravenous that it seems unnecessary, if they are not suffered to go far from home, which makes them poor. Pea Fowl. Feed them as you do turkies. They are so shy that they are seldom found for some days after hatching;POVJ.TnV-YAKP. 2/0 nnd it is very wrong to pursue tliem, as many ignorant people do, in the idea of hringiug them liome ; for it (udy causes the hen to carry the young ones through dangerous {daces, and by hurrying shetreadsupon them. The cock kills all the young chickens he can get at, bv one blow on the centre of the head with his bill ; and he does the same by his own brood before the feathers of the crown come out. Nature therefore impels the hen to keep them out of his way till the feathers rise. Guinea liens Lay a great number of eggs; and if you can discover the nest, it is best to put them under common hens, which are better nurses. They require great warmth ; quiet; and careful feeding with rice swelled with milk, or bread soaked in it. Put two pepper-corns down their throat when first hatched. Pigeons Bring two young ones at a time; and breed every month, if well looked after, and {)lentifully fed. They should be kept very clean, and the bottom of the dove- cote be strewed with sand once a month at least. Tares and white peas are their pro{)cr food. They should have plenty of fresh water in their house. Starlings and other birds are apt to come among them, and suck the eggs. Vermin likewise are their great enemies, and destroy them. If the breed should be too small, put a few tame pigeons of the common kind, and of their own colour, among them. Observe not to have too large a proportion of cock-birds; for they are quarrel- some, and will soon thin the dove-cote. Pigeons are fond of salt, and it keeps them in health. Lay a large heap of clay near the house ; and let the salt-brine that may be done with in the family be poured upon it. Bay-salt and cummin-seeds mixed is an universal re- medy for the diseases of pigeons. The backs and breasts are sometimes scabby; in which case, take a quarter of a pound of bay-salt, and as much commonDOMESTIC COOKEDT’. salt; a pound of fennel-seeds, a pound of dill-seed, as mucli cummin-seed, and an ounce of assafoetida ; mix all with a little wheaten flour, and some fine worked clay ; when all are well beaten together, put it into two earthen pots, and bake them in the oven. When cold, put them on the table in the dove-cote; the pigeons will eat it, and thus be cured. Rabbits. The wild ones have the finest flavour, unless great care is taken to keep the tame delicately clean. The tame one brings forth every month, and must be al- lowed to go with the buck as soon as she has kindled. The sweetest hay, oats, beans, sow-thistle, parsley, carrot-tops, cabbage-leaves, and bran, fresh and fresh, should be given to them. If not very well attended, their stench will destroy themselves, and be very un- wholesome to all who live near them ; but attention will prevent this inconvenience. PART XII. COOKERY FOR THE SICK, AND FOR THE POOR. SICK COOKERY. General Remarks. The following pages wiil contain cookery for the sick; it being of more consequence to support those whose bad appetite will not allow them to take the necessary nourishment, than to stimulate that of persons in health. It may not be unnecessary to advise that a choice be made of the things most likely to agree with the patient; that a change be provided ; that some one at least be always ready ; that not too much of those be made at once, which are not likely to keep, as invalids require variety; and that they should succeed each other in different forms and flavours.'277 SICK COOKERY, A clear Broth that will keep loJig. Put the mouse round of beef, a knuckle bone of veal, and a few shanks of mutton, into a deep pan, and cover close with a dish or coarse crust; bake till the beef is done enough for eating, with only as much water as will cover. When cold, cover it close in a cool place. When to be used, give what flavour may be approved. A quick made Broth. Take a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, take off the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a smalt tin sauce- pan that has a cover, with three quarters of a pint of water, the meat being first beaten, and cut in thin bits; put a bit of thyme and parsley, and, if approved, a slice of onion. Let it boil very quick, skim it nicely; take off the cover, if likely to be too weak; else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for the whole process, A very supporting Broth against any kind of weakness. Boil tw'o pounds of loin of mutton, with a very large handful of chervil, in two quarts of water to one. Take off part of the fat. Any other herb or roots may be added. Take half a pint three or four times a day. A very nourishing Veal Broth. Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal, with very little meat to it, an old fowl, and four shank-bones of mutton extremely well soaked and bruised, three blades of mace, ten pepper-corns, an onion, and a large bit of bread, and three quarts of water, into a stew-pot that covers close, and simmer in the slowest manner after it has boiled up, and been skimmed; or bake it: strain, and take off the fat. Salt as wanted. It will require four hours. Broth of Beef, Mutton, and Veal. Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, one pound'of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, and ten pepper-corns, into a nice tin sauce-pan, with five quarts of water; simmer to three quarts; and clear from the fat when cold. Add one onion if approved.278 iJO.MliSTIC COOKERV, Soup and broth made of different meats, are more supporting, as well as better flavoured. To remove the fat, take it off when cold as clean as possible; and if there be still any remaining, lay a bit of clean blotting or cap paper on the broth when in the basin, and it will take up every particle. Calves* feet Broth. Boil two feet in three quarts of water to half; strain and set it by ; when to be used, take off the fat, put a large tea-cupful of the jelly into a sauce-pan, with half a glass of sweet wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and heat it up till it be ready to boil, then take a little of it, and beat by degrees to the yolk of an egg, and adding a bit of butter, the size of a nutmeg, stir it all together, but don’t let it boil. Grate a bit of fresh lemon-peel into it. .Another.—Boil two calves’ feet, two ounces of veal, and two of beef, the bottom of a penny loaf, two or three blades of mace, half a nutmeg sliced, and a little Balt, in tliree quarts of water, to three pints ; strain, and take off the fat. Chicken Brotlu Put the body and legs of the fowl that chicken-panada was made of, as in page 280, after taking off the skin and rump, into the water it was boiled in, with one blade of mace, one slice of onion, and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer till the broth be of a pleasant flavour. If not water enough, add a little. Beat a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds, with a tea-spoonful of water, fine, boil it in the broth, strain, and, when cold, remove he fat. Eel Broth. Clean half a pound of small eels, and set them on with three pints of water, some parsley, one slice of onion, a few pepper-corns; let them simmer till the eels are bro- ken, and the broth good. Add salt, and strain it off. The above should make three-half-pints of broth. Tench Broth. Make as eel-broth above. They are both very nutritious, and light of digestion.SICK COOKER'S, 279 Beef Tea. Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices; simmer with a quart of water twenty minutes, after it has once boiled, and been skimmed. Season, if approved; but it has generally only salt. Dr. Ratcliff's restorative PorkfelUj. Take a leg of well-fed pork, just as cut up, beat it, and break the bone. Set it over a gentle tire, with three gallons of water, and simmer to one. Let half an ounce of mace, and the same of nutmegs, stew in it. Strain through a fine sieve. When cold, take off the fat. Give a chocolate cup the first and last thing, and at noon, putting salt to taste. Shank Jelly. Soak twelve shanks of mutton four hours, then brush and scour them very clean. Lay them in a sauce-pan with three blades of mace, an onion, twenty Jamaica, and thirty or forty black peppers, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a crust of bread made very brown by toasting. Pour three quarts of water to them, and set them on a hot hearth close-covered; let them simmer as gentle as possible for five hours, then strain it off, and put it in a cold place. This may have the addition of a pound of beef, if approved, for flavour. It is a remarkably good thing for people who are weak. Arrow-root Jelly. Of this beware of having the wrong sort, for it has been counterfeited with bad effect. If genuine, it is very nourishing, especially for weak bowels. Put into a sauce-pan half a pint of water, a glass of sherry or a spoonful of brandy, grated nutmeg, and fine sugar ; boil once up, then mi.x it by degrees into a desert- spoonful of arrow-root, previously rubbed smooth, with two spoonfuls of cold water; then return the whole into the sauce-pan; stir and boil it three minutes. Tapioca J elly. Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on to wash it tw'o or three times, then soak it in fresh water five orDOMESTIC COOKERY. 280 six hours, and simmer it in the same until it become quite clear; then put lemon-juice, wine, and sugar. The peel should have been boiled in it. It thickens very much. Gloucester Jelly. Take rice, sago, pearl-barley, hartshorn shavings, and eringo-root, each an ounce; simmer with three pints of water to one, and strain it. When cold it will be a jelly; of which give, dissolved in wine, milk, or broth, in change with other nourishment. Panada, made in Jive minutes. Set a little water on the fire with a glass of white wine, some sugar, and a scrape of nutmeg and lemon- peel; meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread. The moment the mixture boils up, keeping it still on the fire, put the crumbs in, and let it boil as fast as it can. When of a proper thickness just to drink, take it off. Aiiotlicr.—Make as above, but instead of a glass of wine, put in a tea-spoonful of rum, and a bit of butter; sugar as above. This is a most pleasant mess. Another.—Put to the water a bit of lemon peel, mix the crumbs in, and when nearly boiled enough, put some lemon or orange syrup. Observe to boil all the ingredients ; for if any be added after, the panada will break, and not jelly. Chicken Panada. Boil it till about three parts ready, in a quart of water, take off the skin, cut the white meat olf when cold, and put into a marble-mortar; pound it to a paste with a little of the water it was boiled in, sea- son with a little salt, a grate of nutmeg, and the least bit of lemon-peel. Boil gently for a few minutes tc the consistency you like; it should be such as you can drink, though tolerably thick. This conveys great nourishment in small compass. Sippets, when the Stomach will not receive meat. On an extreme hot plate put two or three sippets o bread, and pour over them some gravy from beef^, mutSICK COOKERY. 281 ton, or veal, if there is no butter in the dish. Sprinkle a little salt over. Eggs. An egg broken into a cup of tea, or beaten and mixed with a basin of milk, makes a breakfast more support- ing than tea solely. An egg divided, and the yolk and white beaten sepa- rately, then mixed with a glass of wine, will afford two very wholesome draughts, and prove lighter than when taken together. Eggs very little boiled, or poached, taken in small quantity, convey much nourishment; the yolk only, when dressed should be eaten by invalids. A great Restorative. Bake two calves' feet in two pints of water, and the same quantity of new milk, in ajar close-covered, three hours and a half. When cold remove the fat. Give a large tea-cupful the last and first thing. What- ever flavour is approved, give it by baking in it lemon- peel, cinnamon, or mace. Add sugar after. Another.—Simmer six sheep’s trotters, two blades of mace, a little cinnamon, lemon-peel, a few hartshorn shavings, and a little isinglass, in two quarts of water to one; when cold, take off the fat, and give near half a pint twice a day, warming with it a little new milk. Another.—Boil 1 ounce of isinglass-shavings, forty Jamaica peppers, and a bit of brow'n crust of bread, in a qtiart of water to a pint, and strain it. This makes a pleasant jelly to keep in the house; cf which a large spoonful may be taken in wine and water, milk, tea, soup, or any way. Another, a most pleasant Draught.—Boil a quarter of an ounce of isinglass-shavings with a pint of new milk, to half: add a bit of sugar, and, for change, a bitter almond. Give this at bed-time, not too warm. Dutch flummery, blamange, and jellies, as directed \r\pages \%7, 188, and 196, or less rich according tn judgment.282 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Caudle. Make a fine smooth gruel of half-grits ; strain it when boiled well, stir it at times till cold. When tobeused,. add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with nutmeg. Some like a spoonful of brandy besides the wine ; others like lemon-juice. Another.—Boil up half a pint of fine gruel, with a bit of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, the same of white wine, one of capillaire, a a bit of lemon-peel and nutmeg. Another.—Into a pint of fine gruel, not thick, put, when it is boiling hot, the yolk of an egg beaten with sugar, and mixed with a large spoonful of cold water, a glass of wine, and nutmeg. Mix by degrees. It is very agreeable and nourishing. Some like gruel, with a glass of table beer, sugar, &c. with or without a tea- spoonful of brandy. Cold Caudle. Boil a quart of spring-water; when cold, add the yolk of an egg, the j uice of a small lemon, six spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and syrup of lemons one ounce. A Flour Caudle. Into 5 large spoonfuls of the purest water rub smooth one desert-spoonful of fine flour. Set over the fire five spoonfuls of new milk, and put two bits of sugar into it; the moment it boils,, pour into it the flour and water; and stir it over a slow fire twenty minutes. It is a nou- rishing and gently astringent food. This is an excellent food for babies who have weak bowels. Rice Caudle. "When the water boils, pour into it some grated rice mixed with a little cold water ; when of a proper con- sistence, add sugar, lemon-peel, and cinnamon, and a glass of brandy to a quart. Boil all smooth. Another.—Soak some Carolina rice in water an hour,, strain it, and put 2 spoonfuls of the rice into a pint and a quarter of milk; simmer till it will pulp through a sieve, then put the pulp and milk into the sauce-pan,,283 SICK COOKERY. with a bruised clove and a bit of white sugar. Simmer ten minutes • if too thick, add a spoonful or two of milk, and serve with thin toast. To mull JVine. Boil some spice in a little water till the flavour is gained, then add an equal quantity of port, some sugar and nutmeg; boil together, and serve witli toast. Another ivay.—Boil a bit of cinnamon and some grated nutmeg a few minutes, in a large-cupful of water; then pour to it a pint of port wine, and add sugar to your taste : heat it up and it W'ill be ready. Or it may be made of good British wine. 2'o make Coffee. Put two ounces of fresh ground coflee, of the best quality, into a coffee-pot, and pour eight coffee-cups of boiling water on it; let it boil six minutes, pour out a cupful two or three times, and return it again ; then put two or three isinglass-chips into it, and pour one large spoonful of boiling water on it; boil it five minutes more, and set the pot by the fire to keep hot for ten minutes, and you will have coffee of a beautiful clearness. Fine cream should alwavs be served with coffee, and either pounded sugar-candy, or fine Lisbon sugar. If for foreigners, or those who like itextremely strong, make only eight dishes from three ounces. If not fresh roasted, lay it before a fire until perfectly hot and dry ; or you may put the smallest bit of fresh butter into a preserving pan of a small size, and, when hot, throw the coffee in it, and toss it about until it be freshened, letting it be cold before ground. Coffee Milk. Boil a desert-spoonful of ground coffee, in nearly a pint of milk, a quarter of an hour; then put into it a shaving or two of isinglass, and clear it; let it boil a few' minutes, and set it on the side of the fire to grow fine.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 884 Tills is a very fine breakfast; it should be sweetened witli real Lisbon sugar of a good quality. Chocolate. Those who use much of this article, will find the fol- lowing mode of preparing it both useful and economi- cal : Cut a cake of chocolate in very small bits ; put a pint of water into the pot, and, when it boils, put in tlie above; mill it off the fire until quite melted, then on a gentle fire till it boils; pour it into a basin, and it will keep in a cool place eight or ten days, or more. When wanted, put a spoonful or two into milk, boil it with sugar, and mix it well. This, if not made thick, is a very good breakfast or supper. Patent Cocoa Is a light wholesome breakfast. Saloop. Boil a little water, wine, lemon-peel, and sugar, to- gether; then mix with a small quantity of the powder, previously rubbed smooth, with a little cold water; stir it altogether, and boil it a few minutes. Milk Porridge. Make a fine gruel of half-grits, long boiled; strain off; either add cold milk, or warm with milk, as may be approved. Serve with toast. French Milk Porridge. Stir some oatmeal and w'ater together, let it stand to be clear, and pour oft’ the latter ; pour fresh upon it. stir it well, let it stand till next day ; strain through a fine sieve, and boil the water, adding milk w'hile doing. The proportion of water must be small. This is much ordered, with toast for the breakfast of weak persons, abroad. Ground-rice Milk. Boil one spoonful of ground-rice, rubbed down ftoiooth, with three half pints of milk, a bit of cinna-SICK COOKEKY. 285 moil, lemon-peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten when neaily done. Sago. To prevent the earthy taste, soak it in cold water an hour; pour that off, and wash it well; then add more, and simmer gently till the berries are clear, with lemon- peel and spice, if approved. Add wine and sugar, and boil all up together. Sago Alilk. Cleanse as above, and boil it slowly and wholly with new milk. It swells so much, that a small quantity will be sufficient for a quart, and when done it will be diminished to about a pint. It requires no sugar or Savouring. .Asses' Milk Far surjiasses any imitation of it that can be made. It should be milked into a glass that is kept warm by be- ing in a basin of hot water. The fixed air that it contains gives some people a pain in the stomach. At first a tea-spoonful of rum may be taken with it, but should only be put in the moment it is to be swallowed. Artificial Asses' Milk. Boil together a quart of water, a quart of new milk, on ounce of white sugar-candy, half an ounce of eringo- root, and half an ounce of conserve of roses, till half be wasted. This is astringent; therefore proportion the doses to the effect, and the quantity to what will be used while sweet. jlnoihrr.—Mix two spoonfuls of boiling water, two of milk, and an egg well beaten : sweeten with pounded white sugar-candy. This may be taken twice or thrice a day. jlnother.—Boil twoounces ofhartshorn-shavings,tvvo ounces of pearl-barley, two ounces of candied eringo- root, and one dozen of snails that have been bruised, in 2 quarts of water, to one. Mix with an equal quantity of new milk, when taken, twice a day.266 DOMESTIC COOKERY. H ater Gruel. Put a large spoonful of oatmeal by degrees into a pint of water, and when smooth boil it Another way.—Eub smooth a large spoonful of oat- meal, with 2 of water,, and pour it into a pint of water boiling on the fire; stir it well, and boil it quick; but take care it does not boil over. In a quarter of an hour strain it off; and add salt and a bit of butter when eaten. Stir until the butter be incorporated. Barley Gruel. Wash 4 oz. of pearl-barley,, boil it in two quarts of water and a stick of cinnamon, till reduced to a quart; strain and return it into the sauce-pan with sugar, and three-quarters of a pint of port-wine. Heap up, and use as wanted. A very agreeable Drink. Into a tumbler of fresh cold water, pour a table spoon- ful of capillaire, and the same of good vinegar. Tamarinds, currants fre.sh or in jelly, or scalded cur- rants or cranberries, make excellent drinks ; with a little sugar, or not, as may be agreeable. A refreshing Drink in a Fever. Put a little tea-sage, two sprigs of balm, and a little wood-sorrel, into a stone jug, having first washed and dried them; peel thin a small lemon, and clear from the white; slice it, and put a bit of the peel in, then l)Our in three pints of boiling water, sweeten, and cover it close. Another Drink.—Wash extremely well an ounce of pearl-barley ; shift it twice, then put to it three pints of water, an ounce of sweet almonds beaten fine, and a bit of lemon peel ; boil till you have a smooth liquor, then put in a little syrup of lemons and capillaire. Another.—Boil 3 pints of water with an ounce and a half of tamarinds, three ounces of currants, and two ounces of stoned raisins, till near a third be consumed. Strain it on a bit of lemon peel, which remove in an hour, as it gives a bitter taste if left long.287 SICK COOKEUY. A most pleasant Drink. Put a tea-cupful of cranberries into a cup of water, Jnd mash them. In the mean time boil two quarts of water with one large spoonful of oatmeal and a bit of lemon-peel ; then add the cranberries, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as shall leave a smart flavour of the fruit; and a 1 of a pint of sherry, or less, as may be proper; boil all for half an hour, and strain off. Soft andfine Draught for those who are weak and have a Cough. Beat a fresh laid egg, and mix it with a quarter of a pint of new milk warmed, a large spoonful of capillaire, the same of rose-water, and a little nutmeg scraped. Don't warm it after the egg is put in. Take it the first and last thing. Toast and fFater. Toast slowly a thin piece of bread till extremely brown and hard, but not the least black; then plunge it into a jug of cold water, and cover it over an hour before used. This is of particular use to weak bowels. It should be of a fine brown colour before drinking. Barley H’ater. Wash a handful of common barley, then simmer it gently in three pints of water with a bit of lemon-peel. This is less apt to nauseate than pearl-barley; but the other is a very pleasant drink. Another wray.—-Boil an ounce of pearl-barley a few minutes to cleanse, then put on ita quart of water, sim- mer an hour; when half done, put into it a bit of fresh lemon-peel, and one bit of sugar. If likely to be too thick, you may put another q^uarter of a pint of water. Lemon-juice may be added it chosen. Lemon-water, a delightful drink. Put 2 slices of lemon thinly pared into a tea-pot, a iittle bit of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoonful of capillaire; pour in a pint of boiling water> and stop it close two hours.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 283 yipple fVuter. Cut two large apples in slices, and pour a quart of boiling water on them; or on roasted apples; strain in two or three hours, and sweeten lightly. Raspberry Vinegar water, page 230.) This is one of the most delightful drinks that can be made. Whey. That of cheese is a very wholesome drink, especially when the cows are in fresh herbage. White-wine Whey. Put J a pint of new milk on the fire; the moment it boils up. pour in as much sound raisin wine as will completely turn it, and it look clear; let it boil up, then set the sauce-pan aside till the curd subsides, and do not stir it. Pour the whey off, and add to it half a pint of boiling water, and a bit of white sugar. Tims you will liave a whey perfectly cleared of milky particles, and as weak as you choose to make it. Vviegar and Lemon Wheys. Pour into boiling milk as much vinegar or lomen- juice as will make a small quantity quite clear, dilute with hot water to an agreeable smart acid, and put a bit or two of sugar. This is less heating than if made of wine; and if only to excite perspiration, answers as well. Buttermilk, with Bread or without. It is most wholesome when sour, as being less likely to be heavy ; but most agreeable when made of sweet cream. Dr. Boerhaave’s sweet Buttermilk. Take the milk from the cow into a small churn, of about 6s. price; in about ten minutes begin churning, and continue till the flakes of butter swim about pretty thick, and the milk is discharged of all the greasy particles, and appears thin and blue. Strain it through a sieve, and drink it as frequently as possible.SICK COOKERy. 289 It should form the whole of the patient’s drink, and the food should be biscuits and rusks, in every way and sort; ripe and dried fruits, of various kinds, when » decline is apprehended. Baked and dried fruits, raisins in particular, make xcellent suppers for invalids, with biscuits, or com- mon cake. Orgeat. Beat two ounces of almonds with a tea-spoonM of orange-flower water, and a bitter almond or two; then pour a quart of milk and water to the paste. Sweeten •with sugar, or capillaire. This is a fine drink for those ■who have a tender chest; and in the gout it is highly useful, and, with the addition of half an ounce of gum arabic, has been found to allay the painfulness of the at- tendant heat. Half a glass of brandy may be added if thought too cooling in the latter complaints, and the glass of orgeat may be put into a basin of warm water. Another orgeat, for company, is in page 229. Orangeade, or Lemonade. Squeeze the juice ; pour boiling water on a little of the peel, and cover chase. Boil water and sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it. When all are cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup, with as much more water as will make a rich sherbet; strain through a jelly-bag. Or squeeze the juice, and strain it, and add water and capillaire. Egg Wine. Beat an egg, mix with it a spoonful of cold w’ater ; set on the fire a glass of white wine, halfa glass of w'ater, sugar, and nutmeg. When it boils pour a little of it to the egg by degrees till the whole be in, stirring it well; then return the whole into the sauce-pan, put it on a gentle fire, stir it one way for not more than a minute ; for if it boil, or the egg be stale, it will curdle. Serve with toast. Egg wine may be made as above, without warming the egg, and it is then lighter on the stomach, though not so pleasant to the taste.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 290 COOKERY FOR THE POOR. Geveral Remarks and Hints. I promised a lew hints, to enable every family to assist the poor of their neighbourhood at a very trivial expense; and these may be varied or amended at the discretion of the mistress. Where cows are kept, a jug of skimmed milk is a valuable present, and a very common one. When the oven is hot a large pudding may be baked, and given to a sick or young family; and thus made, the trouble is little ;—Into a deep coarse pan put half a pound of rice, four ounces of coarse sugar or treacle, two quarts of milk, and two ounces of dripping; set it cold into the oven. It will take a good while, but be an excellent solid food. A very good meal may be bestowed in athingcalled brewis, which is thus made :—Cut a very thick upper crust of bread, and put it into the pot where salt beef is boiling and near ready ; it will attract some of the fat, and when swelled out, will be no unpalatable dish to those who rarely taste meat. A baked Soup. Put a pound of any kind of meat cut in slices ; two onions, two carrots, ditto ; two ounces of rice, a pint of split peas, or whole ones, ifpreviously soaked, pepper add salt, into an earthen jug or pan, and pour one gal- lon of water. Cover it very close, and bake it with the bread. The cook should be charged to save the boiling of every piece of meat, ham, tongue, &c. however salt: as it is easy to use only a part of that, and the rest of fresh water, and, by the addition of more vegetables, the bones of the meat used in the family, the pieces of meat that come from table on the plates, and rice, Scotch barley, or oatmeal, there will be some gallons of nutritious soup two or three times a week. The bits of meat should be only \varmed in the soup, and remai.i whole; the bones, kc. boiled till they yield th<«ir nou-COOKERY FOR THE POOR. 291 rishment. If the things are ready to put in the boiler as soon as ihe meat is served, it will save lighting fire, and second cooking. Take turni[)S, carrots, leeks, potatoes, the outer leaves of lettuce, celery, or any sort of vegetable that is at hand; cut them small, and throw in widi the thick part of peas, aiter they have been pulped for soup, and grits, or coarse oatmeal, which have been used for gruel. Should the soup be poor of meat, the long boiling of the bones, and different vegetables, will afford better nourishment than the laborious poor can obtain ; espe- cially as they are rarely tolerable cooks, and have not fuel to do justice to what they buy. Hut in every family there is some superfluity; and if it be prepared with cleanliness and care, the benefit will be very great to the receiver, and the satisfaction no less to the giver. I found, in the time of scarcity, ten or fifteen gailc^l.s of soup could he dealt out weekly, at an expense not worth mentioning, thongh the vegetables were bought. If in the villages about London, abouinling with opulent families, the quantity often gallons were made in ten gentlemen's houses, there would be a hundred gallons of wholesome agreeable food given weekly for the sup- j.)ly of forty poor families, at the rate of two gallons and a half each. What a relief to the labouring husband, instead of bread and cheese, to have a warm comfortable meal! To the sick, aged, and infant branches how important an advantage ! nor less to the industrious mother whose forbearance from the necessary quantity of food, that others may have a lager share, frequently reduces that strength upon v hich the welfare of her family essen- tially depends. It verv rarely happens that servants object to second- ing the kindness of their superiors to the poor ; hut should the cook in any family think the adoption of this plan too troublesome, a gratuity at the end of the win- ter might repav her, if the love of her fellow-creatures failed of doing it a hundred fold. Did slie readilyDOMESTIC COOKERY. ^92 enter into it, she would never wash away, as useless, the peas or grits of which soup or gruel had been made ; broken potatoes, the green heads of celery, the necks and leetof fowls, and particularly the shanks of mutton, and various other articles which in preparing dinnerfor the family are throw'n aside. Fish affords great nourishment, and that not by the part eaten only, but the bones, heads, and fins, which contain an isinglass. When the fish is served, let the cook put by some of the water, and stew in it the above; as likewise add the gravy that is in the dish, until she obtain all the goodness. If to be eaten by itself, when it makes a delightful broth, she should add a very small bit of onion, some pepper, and a little rice-flour rubbed down smooth with it. But strained, it makes a delicious improvement to the meat-soup, particularly for the sick ; and when such are to be supplied, the milder parts of the spare bones and meat should be used for them, with little, if any, of the liquor of the salt meats. 'I'be fat should not be taken off the broth or soup, as the poor like it, and are notirished by it. An excellent Soup for the Weakly. Put two cow-heels, and a breast of mutton into a large pan, with four ounces of rice, one onion, twenty Ja- maica peppers, and twenty black, a turnip, a carrot, and four gallonsof water; cover with brown paper, and bake six hours. Sago. Put a tea-cupful of sago into a quart of water, and a bit of lemon-peel; when thickened, grate some ginger, and add half a pint of raisin wine, brown sugar and two spoonfuls of Geneva ; boil all up together. It is a most supporting thing for those whom disease has left very feeble. Caudle for the Sick and Lying-in. Set three quarts of water on the fire ; mix smooth as much oatmeal as will thicken the whole, with a pint of293 VAUIOUS RECEIPTS, cold water ; when boiling, pour the latter in, and twenty Jamaica peppers in fine powder ; boil to a good niiil- dling thickness ; then add sugar, half a pint of well- fermented table-beer, and a glass of gin. Boil all. This mess twice, and once or twice of broth, will be of incalculable service. There is not a better occasion for charitable com- miseration than when a person is sick. A bit of meat or pudding sent unexpectedly has often been the means of recalling long-lost appetite. Nor are the indigent alone the grateful receivers ; for in the highest houses a real good sick-cook is rarely met with; and many who possess all the goods of for- tune, have attributed the first return of health to an appetite excited by good kilchen-phyfic, as it is called. PART XIII. VARIOUS RECEIPTS, AND DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. VARIOUS RECEIPTS. To make soft Pomatum- Beat half a pound of unsalted fresh lard in common water ; then soak and beat it in two rose-waters, drain it, and beat it with two spoonfuls of brandy; let it drain from this; add to it some essence of lemon, and keep it in small pots. Another reay.—Soak halfa pound of clear beef-mar- row, and a pound of unsalted fresh lard, in water two or three days, changing and beating it every day. Put it into a sieve ; and when dry, into a jar, and the jar into a sauce-pan of water. When melted, pour it into a basin, and beat it with two spoonfuls of brandy: drain off the brandy, and then add essence of lemon, bergamot, or any other scent that is liked.294 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Hard Pomatum. Prepare equal quantities of beef-marrow and mutton* suet as before, using the brandy to preserve it, and ad- ding the scent; then pour it into moulds, or, if you have none, into phials of the size you choose the rolls to be of. When cold, break the bottles, clear away the glass carefully, and put paper round the rolls. Pomade Divine. Clear a pound and a half of beef-marrow from the strings and bone, put it into an earthen pan, or vessel of water fresh from the spring, and change the water night and morning for ten days ; then steep it in rose-water twenty-four hours, and drain it in a cloth till quite dry. Take an ounce of each of the following articles, namely, storax, gum-benjamin, odoriferous cypress-powder, or of Florence ; half an ounce of cinnamon, two drams of cloves, and two drams of nutmeg, all finely powdered ; mix them with the marrow above prepared ; then put all the ingredients into a pewter pot, that holds three pints ; make a paste of white of egg and flour, and lay it upon a ])iece of rag. Over that must be another piece of linen to cover the top of the pot very close, that none of the steam may evaporate. Put the pot into a large copper pot, with water, observing to keep it steady, that it may not reach to the covering of the pot that holds the marrow. As the water shrinks, add more, boiling liot; for it must boil four hours without ceasing amo- ment. Strain the ointment through a linen cloth into small pots, and, when cold, cover them. Don't touch it with any thing but silver. It will keep many years. A fine pomatum may be made by putting half a pound of fresh marrow, prepared as above, and two ounces of ho^-'s-lard, on the ingredients ; and then ob- serving the sau “ process as above. Pot Pourri. Put into a large Chinajar the following ingredients in layers, with bay-salt strewed between the layers, two pecks of damask roses, part in buds and part blown,295 VARIOUS RECEIPTS, violets, orange-flowers, and jasmine,a handful of each; orris-root sliced, benjamin and storax, two ounces of each ; a quarter of an ounce of musk; a quarter of a pound of angelica-root sliced ; a quart of the red parts of clove-gillyflowers ; two handfuls of lavender-flowers; half a handful of rosemary-flowers; bay and laurel leaves, half a handful of each ; three Seville oranges, stuck as full of cloves as possible, dried in a cool oven, and pounded ; half a handful of knotted marjoram; and two handfuls of balm of Gilead dried. Cover all quite close. When the pot is uncovered the perfume is very fine. A quicker sort of Sweet Pot. Take three handfuls of orange-flowers, three of clove- gillyflowers, three ofdamask roses, one of knotted mar- joram, one of lemon-thyme, six bay-leaves, a handful of rosemary, one of myrtle, half one of mint, one of la- vender, the rind of a lemon, and a quarterof an ounce of cloves. Chop all; and put them in layers, with pounded bay-salt between, up to the top of the jar. If all the ingredients cannot be got at once, put them in as you get them; always throwing in salt with every new article. To make Wash-Balls. Shave thin two pounds of new white soap into about a tea-cupful of rose-water ; then pour as much boiling water on as will soften it. Put into a brass pan a pint of sweetoil, fourpenny-worth of oil of almonds, half a pound of spermaceti, and set all over the fire till dis- solved ; then add the soap, and half an ounce of cam- phor that has first been reduced to powder by rubbing it in a mortar with a few drops of spirit of wine, or la- vender-water, or any other scent. Boil ten minutes; then pour it into a basin, and stir till it is quite tliick enough to roll up into hard balls, which must then be done as soon as possible. If essence is used, stir it in quick after it is taken off the fire, that the flavour may not fly oflf-DOMESTIC COOKEUY. 296 Paste for Choirped Hands, at}d which will iireserce them smooth by consta7it use. Mix aquarter ofa pound of unsalted hog’s lard, which has been washed in common and then rose-water, with the yolks of two new-laid eggs, and a large spoonful of honey. Add as much fine oatmeal, or almond-paste, as will work into a paste. For Chopped Lips. Put a quarter of an ounce of benjamin, storax. and spermaceti, twopenny-worth of alkanet root, a large juicy apple chopped, a bunch of black grapes bruised, a quarter ofa pound of unsalted butter, and two ounces of bees-wax. into a new tin sauce-pan. Simmer gently till the wax, &c. are dissolved, and then strain it through a linen. When cold, melt it again, and pour it into small pots or boxes; or if to make cakes, use the bot- toms of tea-cups. Hungary Water. To one pint of highly rectified spirit of wine, put an ounce of oil of rosemary, and two drams of essence of ambergris ; shake the bottle well several times, then let the cork remain out twenty-four hours. After a month, during which time shake it daily, put the water into small bottles. Honey Water. Take a pint of spirit as above, and three drams of essence of ambergris; shake them well daily. Lavender Water. Take a pint of spirit as above, essential oil of laven- der one ounce, essence of ambergris two drams; put all into a quart bottle, and shake it extremely well. An excellent Water to prevent Hatr from falling off, and to thicken it. Put four pounds of unadulterated honey into a still, with twelve handfuls of the tendrils of vines, and the same quantity of rosemary-tops. Distil as cool and as slowly as possible. The liquor may be allow-ed to drop till it begins to taste sour.VARIOUS RECEIPTS. 297 Black Paper for Drawing Patterns. Mix and smooth lamp-black and sweet-oil ; with a bit of flannel, cover a sheet or two of large writing paper with this mixture; then dab the paper dry with a bit of fine linen, and keep it by for using in the following manner: Put the black side on another sheet of paper, and fasten the corners together with a small pin. Lay on the back of the black paper the pattern to be drawn, and go over it with the point of a steel pencil : the black paper wdll then leave the impression of the pattern on the under sheehon which you must now draw it w ith ink. Ifyou draw patterns on cloth, or muslin, doit with a pen dipped in a bit of stone blue, a bit of sugar, and a little water mixed smooth in a tea-cup, in which it will be always ready for use; if fresh, wet to a due consistence as wanted. Black Ink. Take a gallon of rain or soft water, and three quar- ters of a pound of blue galls bruised; infuse them three w'eeks, stirring daily. Then add four ounces of green co])peras, four ounces of log-wood chips, si.x ounces of gum arabic, and a wine-glassful of brandy. Another way.—The ink-powder sold in Shoe-lane is one of the best preparations in this useful article. Direc- tions are given with it how to mix it; in addition to which, a large cup of sweet wort to two papers of ihe j)Owder, gives it the brightness of the japan ink. If a jiacket of six papers is bought together, it costs only eighteenpence, and that quantity will last a long time. To cement broken China, Beat lime into the most impalpable powder, sift it through fine muslin : then tie some into a thin muslin, put on the diyes of the broken china some white of egg. then dust some lime quickly on the same, and unite them exactly. A71 excellent Stucco, which will adhere to Wood-tvork. 7’ake a bushel of the best stone-lime, a {>ound of yel- low oker, and a quarter of a pound of brow n umber, allDOMESTIC COOKERY. 298 !,n fine powder. Mix them with a sufficient quantity of hot (but not boiling) water, to a proper thickness; and lay it on with a whitewasher’s brush, which should be new. If the wall be quite smooth, one or two coats will do ; but each must be dry before the next is put on. The month of March is the best season for doing this. Mason's Washes for Stucco. Blue.—To four pounds of blue vitriol, and a pound of the best whiting, put a gallon of water, in an iron or brass pot. Let it boil an hour, stirring it all the time. Then pour it into an earthen pan; and set it by for a day or two, till the colour is settled. Pour off the water, and mix the colour with whitewasher’s size. Wash the walls three or four times, according as is necessary. Yellow—Dissolve in soft water over the fire equal quantities separately of umber, bright oker, and blue black. Then put it into as much whitewash as you think sufficient for the work, some of each, and stir it all together. If either cast predominates, add more of the others till you have the proper tint. The most beautiful whitewash is made by mixing the lime and size with skim milk instead of w'ater. Roman Cement or Mortar, for outside plaistering or brickwork. This will resist all weather; and may be used to great advantage to line reservoirs, as no w'ater can penetrate. Take eighty-four pounds of drift-sand, twelve pounds of unslacked lime, and four pounds of the poorest cheese grated through an iron grater. When well mixed, add enough hot (but not boiling) water to make into a pro- per consistence for plaistering, such a quantity of the above as is w'anted. It must have good and quick work- ing. One hod of this mortar will go a great way, as it is to be laid on in a thin smooth coat, without the least space being left uncovered. The w'all or lath-work should be covered first with hair and-lime mortar, and well dried. This was used by the ancients, and is nowVARIOUS RECJilPTS. 2S9 adopted among us. The Suffolk cheese does better than any other of this country. To take stains of aJiij kind out of Linen. Stains caused hy Acids.—Wet the part and lay on it some salt of wormwood. Then rub it without diluting it with more water. Another.—Let the cloth imbibe a little water without dipping, and hold the part over a lighted match at a due distance. The spots will be removed by the sulphureous gas. Another nay.—Tie up in the stained part some pearl- ash ; then scrape some soap into cold soft water to make a lather, and boil the linen till the stain disappears. Stains of Wine, Fruit, ^’c. after they have been long in the Linen.—Hub the part on each side with yellow soap. Then lay on a mixture of starch in cold water very thick; rub it well in, and expose the linen to the sun and air till the stain comes out. If not removed in three or four days, rub that off, and renew tlie process. When dry it may be sprinkled with a little water. Alany other Stains may be taken out by dipping the linen in sour butter-milk, and drying in a hot sun. Then wash it in cold water, and dry it, two or three times a day. Iron-moulds should be wetted; then laid on a hut water-plate, and a little essential salt of lemons put on the part. If the linen becomes dry, wet it and renew the proce.ss; observing that the plate is kept boiling hot. Much of the powder sold under the name of salt of le- mons is a spurious preparation; and therefore it is neces- sary to dip the linen in a good deal of water, and wash it as soon as the stain is removed, to prevent the part from being worn into holes by the acid. To takeout Alildemsoap with starch pow- dered, half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon ; lay it on the part of both sides with a painter's brush. Let it lie on the grass day and night till the stain comes outDOMESTIC COOKERT. 300 T(} make Flannels keep their colour, and not shrink. Put them into a pail, and pour boiling water on, let- ting them lie till cold, the first time of washing. To preserve Furs and Woollen from Moths, Let the former be occasionally combed while in use, and the latter be brushed and shaken. When not want- ed, dry them first, let them be cool, then mix among them bitter apples from the apothecary’s, in small mus- lin bags, sewing them in several folds of linen, carefully turned in at the edges, and keep from damp. To dye the linings of Furniture, ^c. Buff or Salmon-colour, according to the depth of the hue.—Rub down on a pewter-plate twopenny-worth O’ Spanish arnatto, and then boil it in a pail of water a quar- ter of an hour. Put into it two ounces of pot-ash, stii it round, and instantly put in the lining; stir it aboul all the time it is boiling, which must be five or sis minutes; tiien put it into cold pump water, and hang the articles up singly without wringing. When almost dry, fold and mangle it. Pink.—The calico must be washed extremely clean and he dry. Then boil it in two gallons of soft water, and four ounces of alum ; take it out, and dry in the air. In the mean time boil in the alum-water two handfuls of wheat-bran till quite slippery, and then strain it. Take two scruples of cochineal, and two ounces of argali finely pounded and sifted ; mix with it the liquor by little at a time. Then put into the liquor the calico; and boil till it is almost wasted, moving it about. Take out the ca- lico, and w'ash it in chamberlye first, and in cold water after: then rinse it in water-starch strained, and dry it quick without hanging it in folds. Mangle it very high- ly, uidess you have it callendered, which is best. Blue.—Let the calico be washed clean and dried; then mix some of Scot’s liquid blue in as much water as will be sufficient to cover the things to be dyed, and put some starch to it to give a light stiffness. Dry a bit to301 VARIOUS RECEIPTS. see whether the colour is deep enough ; then set the linen, &c. into it, and wash it; then dry the articles singly, and mangle or Callender them. To dye Gloves to look like York tan or Limerick, according to the deepness of the dye. Put some saffron into a pint of soft water boiling hot, and let it infuse all night; next morning wet the lea- ther over with a brush. The tops should be sewn close to prevent the colour from getting in. 7o dye White Gloves a beautiful Purple. Boil four ounces of logwood and two ounces of roche alum, in three pints of soft water till half wasted. Let it stand to be cold, after straining. Let the gloves be nicely mended ; then with a brush do over them, and when dry repeat it. Twice is sufficient, unless the co- lour is to be very dark. When dry, rub off the loose dye with a coarse cloth. Beat up the white of an egg, and with a spunge mb it over the leather. The dye will stain the hands, but wetting them with vinegar will take it off, before they are washed. A Liquor to trash Old Deeds, ^-c. on Paper or Parchment, when the writing is obliterated, or when sunk, to make it legible. Take five or six galls, bruise them, and put them in- to a pint of strong white wine: let it stand in the sun two days. Then dip a brush into the wine, and wash the part of the writing which is sunk; and by the co- lour you will see whether it is strong enough of the galls. To prevent the Rot in Sheep. Keep them in the pens till the dew is off the grass. To prevent green Hay from firing. Stuff a sack as full of straw or hay as possible ; tie the mouth with a cord ; and make the rick round the sack, drawing it up as the rick advances in height, and quite out when finished. The funnel thus left in the centre preserves it.302 DOMESTIC COOICERl. Topresjerve a Granary from Inlets ana TVeasels. Make the Hoor of Louihardy poplars. To destroy Crickets. Put Scotch suuff upon the holes where they come out DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. To clean Calico Furniture when taken down for the Summer, Shake off the loose dust, then lightly brush with a small long-haired furniture brush ; after which wipe it closely with clean flannels, and rub it with dry bread. If properly done, the curtains will look nearly as well as at first, and if the colour be not light, they will not require washing for years. Fold in large parcels, and put carefully by. While the furniture remains up, it should be pre- served from the sun and air as much as possible, which injure delicate colours ; and the dust may he blown off with bellows. By the above mode curtains may be kej)t clean, even to use with the linings newly dipped. To clean Plate. Boil an ounce of prepared hartshorn-powder in a quart of water; -while on the fire, put into it as much plate as the vessel will hold ; let it boil a little, then take it out, drain it over the sauce-pan, and dry it before the fire. Put in more, and serve the same, till you have done. Then put into the water some clean linen rags till all be soaked up. When dry, they will serve to clean the plate, and are the very best things to clean the brass locks and finger plates of doors. When the p.late is quite dry it must be rubbed bright with leather. This is a very nice mode. In many plate- powders there is a mixture of quicksilver, which is very injurious; and, among other disadvantages, it makes silver so brittle, that from a fall it will break. To clean Looking-glasses. Bemove the fly-stains, and other soil, by a damp Jtag; then polish with woollen cloth and powder blue.305 DIUECTIONS TO SERVAKTS. To preserve Gildiiig a7id, Cleayi it. It IS not possible to prevent Hies from staining the gilding without covering it; before which, blow off the light dust, and pass a feather or clean brush over it • then with strips ot paper cover the frames of 3^our glasses, and don’t remove it till the flies are gone. Linen takes off the gilding, and deadens it britrht- ness, it should theiefore never be used for wiping it Some means should be used to destroy the ke? as tliey injure furniture of every kind, and the paper like- wise. Bottles hung about with sugar and -vinecrar or beer, will attract them ; or Hy-water put into little%hells placed about the room, but out of the reach of children. To Glean Paint. Never use a cloth, but take off the dust with a little long-haired brush, after blowing off the loose part with Uie bellows. With care, paint will look well for a leno-th of time. AVheii soiled, dip a sponge or a bit of flannel into soda and water, wash it off quickly, and dry imme- diately, or the strength of the soda will eat ofi'the colour AVhen wainscot requires scouring, it should be done from the top downwards, and the soda be prevented from running on the unclean jiart as much as possible or marks wdll be made which will appear after the whole is finished. One person should dry with old linen as fast as the other has scoured off the dirt and washed the soda off. To clean Paper llanginirs. First blow off the dust with the bellows. Divide a white loaf of eight days old into eight parts. Take the cnist into your hand, and beginning at the top of the jiaper, wipe it down wards in the lightest manner with the crumb. Don’t cross nor go upwards. The dirt of the paper and the crumbs will fall together. Observe, you must not M-ipe above half a yard at a stroke, and after doing all the upper part, go round again, beginniim a little above where you left off If you don't do it ex- tremely lightly, you will make the dirt adhere to tluj- }»aper. It will look like new if properly done,.DOMESTIC COOKEUV. 304 To give a Gloss to fine Oak-wainscot. If greasy, it must be washed with warm beer; then boil two quarts of strong beer, a bit of bee’s wax as large as a walnut, and a large spoonful of sugar; w^et it all over with a large brush, and when dry rub it till bright. To give a fine Colour to Mahogany. Let the tables be washed perfectly clean with vinegar, having first taken out any ink stains there may be with spirit of salt; but it must be used with the greatest care, and only touch the part affected, and be instantly washed off. Use the following liquid:—into a pint of cold- drawn linseed oil, put four pennyw'orth of alkanet-root, and two pennyworth of rose-pink, in an earthen vessel; let it remain all night, then stirring well, rub some of it all over the tables with a linen rag; when it has laiu some time, rub it bright with linen cloths. Eating-tables should be covered wfitlumat, oil-cloth, or baize, to prevent staining, and be instantly rubbed when the dishes are taken off, while still warm. To take Ink out of Mahogany. Dilute half a tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol with a large spoonful of water, and touch the part with a feather; watch it, for if it stays too long it will leave a white mark. It is therefore better to rub it quick, and repeat if not quite removed. Floor-cloths Should be chosen that are painted on a fine cloth, that is well covered with the colour, and the flow-ers on which do not rise much above the ground, as they w'ear out first. The durability of the cloth will depend much on these two particulars, but more especially on the time it has been painted, and the goodness of the colours. If they have not been allowed sufficient space for becoming thoroug])ly hardened, a very little use will injure them ; and as they are very expensive articles, care in preserv- ing them is necessary. It answers to keep them some time before they are used, either hung up in a dry bam where they will have air, or laid down in a spare rooiUi305 il::UVANTS. When taken up for the winter, they should be rolled round a carpet roller, and observe not to crack the paint by turning the edges in too suddenly. Old carpets answer extremely well, painted and seasoned some months before laid down. If for passages, the width must be directed when they are sent to the manufac- tory, as they are cut before painting. To clean Jloor-cloths. Sweep, then wipe them with a flannel; and when all dust and spots are removed, rub with a waxed flannel, and then with a dry plain one ; but use little wax, and rub only enough with the latter to give a little smooth- ness, or it may endanger falling. Washing now and then with milk alter the above sweeping, and dry- rubbing them, give as beautiful a look, and they are less slippery. To dust Carpets and Floors. S[)rinkle tea-leaves on them, then sweep carefully. The former should not be swept frequently w'ith a whisk brush, as it wears them fast; only once a week, and the other times with the leaves and a hair brush. Fine carpets should be gently done with a hair hand-brush, such as for cloths, on the knees. To clean Carpets. Take up the carpet, let it be well beaten, then laid down, and brushed on both sides with a hand-brush; turn it the right side upwards, and scour it with ox-gall, and soap and water, very clean, and dry it with linen cloths. Then lay it on grass, or hang it up to dry. To give to Boards a beautiful appearance. After washing them very nicely, clean with soap and warm water, and a brush, wash them with a very large sponge and clean water. Both times, observe to leave no spot untouched ; and clean straight up and down, not crossing from board to board: then dry with clean cloths, rubbing hard up and down in the same wav- The doors should not be often wetted, but very tho- roughly when done ; and once a week dry-rnbbed with hot sand, and a heavy brush the right way of the boards.DOMESTIC COOKERT. 306 The sides ofstairs or passages on which are carpets, or floor cloth, should be washed with sponge instead of linen or flannel, and the edges will not be soiled. ' Different sponges should be kept for the two above uses ; and those and the brushes should be w'ell washed when done w'ith, and kept in dry places. To extract Oil from Boards or Stone. klake a strong lye of peal-ashes and soft water; and add as much unslacked lime as it will take up; stir it together, and then let it settle a few minutes ; bottle it, and stop close ; have ready some water to lower it as used, and scour the part with it. If the liquor should lie long on the boards, it will draw out the colour of them ; therefore do it with care and expedition. 7 0 clean stone Stairs and Halls. Boil a pound of pipe-makers’ clay, with a quart of wa- ter, a quart of small beer, and put in a bit of stone-blue. "U'ash with this mixture, and when dry rub the stones with flannel and a brush. To blacken the fronts of Stone Chimney-'pieces. Mix oil-varnish with lamp-black, and a little spirit of turpentine to thin it to the consistence of paint. AVash the stone w'ith soap and water very clean ; then sponge it with clear water ; and when perfectly dry, brush it over twice with this colour, letting it dry be- tween the times. It looks extremely well. The lamp- black must be sifted first. To take Stains out of Marble. Mix unslacked lime, in finest powder,with the stronger soap-lye, pretty thick ; and instantly, with a painter’s brush, lay it on the whole of the marble. In two months time wash it off perfectly clean ; then have ready a fine thick lather of soft soap, boiled in soft water ; dip a brush in it, and scour the marble with po\vder, not aa common cleaning. This will, by very good rubbing, give a beautiful polish. Clear off the soap, and finish with a smooth hard brush till the end be effected. To take Iron Stains out of Marble. An equal quantity of fresh spirit of vitriol and lemon-DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 307 juice being adxed in a bottle, shake it well; wet the spots, and in a few minutes rub with soft linen till they disappear. To preserve Irons from Bust. ftfelt fresh mutton-suet^ smear over the iron with it while hot; then dust well with unslacked lime pound- ed, and tied up in a muslin. Irons so prepared will keep many months. Use no oil for them at any time, except salad oil; there being w'ater in all other. Fire-irons should be kept wrapt in baize, in a dry place, when not used. Another rcay.—Beat into three pounds of unsalted hogs’ lard, two drams of camphor sliced thin, till it is dissolved; then take as much black lead as will make it of the colour of broken steel. Dip a rag into it, and rub it thick on the stove, &c. and the steel will never rust, even if wet. When it is to be used, the grease must be washed off with hot water, and the steel be dried before polishing. To take Rust out of Steel. Cover the steel with sweet oil well rubbed on it, and in forty-eight hours vise unslacked lime finely powder- ed, and rub until all the rust disappears. To clean the back of the Grate, the inner Hearth, and the froyits of Cast Iron Stoves. Boil about a quarter of a pound of the best black lead, with a pint of smalt beer, and a bit of soap the size of a walnut. When that is melted, dip a painter’s brush, and wet the grate, having first brushed off all the soot and dust; then take a hard brush, and rub it till of a beautiful brightness. Another way to clean Cast Iron, and black Hearths. Mix black lead and whites of eggs well beaten toge- ther; dip a painter’s brush, and wet all over, then rub it bright with a hard brush. To take the Black off the bright Bars of polished Stoves in a » few M inutes. Bub them well with some of the following mixture on a bit of broad cloth ; when the dirt is removed, wipe them clean, and polish with glass, not sand-paper.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 308 The mixture.—Boil slowly one pound of soft soap in two quarts of water, to one. Of this jelly take three or four spoonfuls, and mix to a consistence with emery, No. 3. To clean Tin Covers, and Patent Pewter Porter Pots. Get the finest whiting, which is only sold in large cakes, the small being mixed with sand : mix a little of it powdered, with the least drop of sweet oil, and rub well, and wipe clean ; then dust some dry whiting in a muslin bag over, and rub bright with dry leather. The last is to prevent rust, which the cook must be careful to guard against by wiping dry, and putting by the fire when they come from the parlour; for if but once hung up without, the steam will rust the inside. To prevent the creaking of a door. Rub a bit of soap on the hinges. A Strong Paste for Paper. To two large spoonfuls of fine flour, put as much pounded rosin as will lie on a shilling; mix with as much strong beer as will make it of a due consistence, and boil half an hour. Let it be cold before it is used. Fine Blacking for Shoes. Take four ounces of ivory-black, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, a table spoonful of sweet oil, and a pint of small beer ; mix them gradually cold.BILLS OF FARE, FAMILY DINNERS, &c. BILLS OP FARE, &C. List of various articles in season in different months. JANUARY. Poultry.—Game : Pheasants. Partridges. Hares. Rabbits. Woodcocks. Snipes. Turkies. Capons. Pullets. Fowls. Chickens. Tame Pigeons. Fish.—Carp. Tench. Perch, Lampreys. Eels. Cray- fish. Cod. Soles. Flounders. Plaice. Turbot. Thorn- back. Skate. Sturgeon. Smelts. Whitings. Lobsters, Crabs. Prawns. Oysters. Fegetahles.—Cabbage. Savoys. Colewort. Sprouts. Brocoli. Leeks, Onions. Beet. Sorrel. Chervil. Endive. Spinach. Celery. Garlick. Scorzonera. Potatoes. Pars- nips. Turnips. Brocoli, white and purple. Shalots. Let- tuces. Cresses. Mustard. Rape. Salsafy. Herbs of all sorts; dry, and some green. Cucumbers. Asparagus, and Mushrooms, to be had though not in season. Fruit.—Apples. Pears. Nuts. Walnuts. Medlars. Gi’apes. FEBRUARY AND MARCH, Meat, Fowls, and Game, as in January, with the ad- dition of Ducklins and Chickens ; which last are to be bought in London, most, if not all, the year, but very dear. Fish.—As the last two months ; except that Cod is not thought so good from February to July, but may be bought. Fecjetahles.—The same as the former months, with the addition of Kidney-Beans. Fruit.—Apples. Pears. Forced Strawberries. SECOND quarter; APRIL, MAY, AND JUNE. Meat.—Beef. Mutton. Veal. Lamb. Venison in June. Poultry,—Pullets. Fowls. Chickens. Ducklings. Pigeons. Rabbits. Leverets.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 310 Fish.—Carp. Tench. Sole. Smelts. Eels. Trout. Turbot. Lobsters. Chub. Salmon. Herrings. Crayfish. Mackerel. Crabs. Prawns. Shrimps. Vegetahles.—As before ; and in May, early Potatoes. Peas.* lladishes. Kidney-Beans. Carrots. Turnips. Early Cabbages. Cauliflowers. Asparagus. Artichokes. All sorts of Salads forced. Fruits.—In June; Strawberries. Cherries. Melons. Green Apricots. Currants and Gooseberries for Tarts.— In July, Cherries. Strawberries. Pears. Melons. Goose- berries. Currants. Apricots. Grapes. Nectarines; and some Peaches. But most of these are forced. THIRD QUARTER.—JULY, AUGUST, ARD SERTEMBER. Meat as before. Poultry.—Pullets. Fowls. Chickens. Babbits. Pigeons. Green Geese. Leverets. Turkey Poults. Two former months. Plovers. Wheatears. Geese in Septena- ber. Fish.—Cod. Haddock. Flounders. Plaice. Skates. Tliornback. Mullets. Pike. Carp. Eels. Shell-fish; except Oysters. Mackerel the first two months of tire quarter, but not good in August. Partridge shooting begins the 1st ofSeptember; what is therefore used before, is poached. Vegetables.—Of all sorts. Beans, Peas, French- Beans, &.C. &c. Fruit.—In July; Strawberries. Gooseberries. Pine- Apples. Plums, various. Cherries. Apricots. Rasnber- ries. Melons. Currants. Damsons. In August, and September. Peaches. Plums. Figs. Filberts. Mulberries. Cherries. Apples. Pears. Necta- rines. Grapes. Latter months. Pines, Melons, Straw- berries, Medlars and Quinces in the latter month. Mo- relia Cherries. Damsons; and various Plums. OCTOBER, Meat as before, and Doe-Venison. Poultry and Game.—Domestic fowls as in former quarter. Pheasants from the 1st of October. Partridges,BILLS OF FARE. 31 [ Larks. Hares. Dotterels. The end of the month, Wild- ducks. Teal. Snipes. Widgeon. Grouse. FisJi.—Dories. Smelts. Pike. Peach. Plolibets. Brills, Carp. Salmon-trout. Barbel. Gudgeons. Tench. Shell- hsh. Vegetables.—As in January, French-beans, last crops of Beans, &c. Fruit.—Peaches. Pears. Figs. Bullace, Grapes. Ap- ples. Medlars. Damsons. Filberts. Walnuts. Nuts. Quinces. Services. Medlars. NOVEMBER. Meat.—Beef. Mutton. Veal. Pork. House-Lamb. Doe-Venison. Poultry and Game as in last month. Fish as the last month. Vegetables.—Carrots. Turnips. Parsnips. Potatoes. Skirrets. Scorzonera. Onion. Leeks. Shalots. Cabbage. Savoys. Colewort. Spinach. Chard-Beets. Cardoona. Cresses. Endive. Celery. Lettuces. Salad. Herbs. Pot-herbs. Fruit.—Pears. Apples. Nuts. Walnuts. Bullace. Chesnuts. Medlars. Grapes. DECEMBER. Meat. —Beef. Mutton. Veal. House-Lamb. Pork and Venison. Poultry and Game.—Geese. Turkeys. Pullets. Pi- geons. Capons. Fowls. Chickens. Rabbits. Hares. Snipes. Wood-cocks. Larks. Pheasants. Partridges. Sea-fowls. Guinea-fowls. Wild-ducks. Teal. Widgeon. Dotterels. Dun-birds. Grouse. Fish.—Cod. Turbot. Holibets. Sole. Gurnets. Stus- geon. Carp. Gudgeons. Codlins. Eels. Dories. Shell- fish. Vegetables.—As in the last month. Asparagus forced, &c. Fruii as the last, except Bullace.312 DOMESTIC COOKERY. FAMILY DINNERS. FIVE DISHES. Knuckle of Veal stewed with Rice. Apple-sauce. Bread-and-Butter. Pudding. Loin of Pork roasted. Potatoes. Potatoes. Peas Soup. (Remove—boiled Fowl.) Oyster Sauce. Apple-pie. Roasted Beef. Benton Sauce. Brocoli. Pigs Souse fried in Batter. (Remove for Yorkahire Pudding Potatoes. Peas Soup. Roast Veal. Salads. Stewed Beet and Onions. Hessian Ragout. Hessian Soup, of the above. Leg of Lamb roasted. Potatoes. Beef Podovies. (Remove—Gurd Puddings.) Mashed Potatoes n, -n grilled. Neck of Mutton. Carrots and Turnips. Potatoes. Broiled Pladdocks stuffed. Light Suet. Dumplings. Round of Beef. Carrots, and Greens, Salad. Crimp Cod. Gooseberry Pudding. Leg of Mutton. Jerusalem Artichokes.313 FAMILY DINNERS. Spitchcock Eels. ( Remove—Chine of Lamb in Cresses-J Potatoes. Damson Pudding. Cold Beef. Stewed Carrots. Scrag of Veal smothered with Onions. (Remove—a Fruit Pie.) Mashed Potatoes trimmed with small slices of Peas Soup. Bacon. Hashed Hare. Brocolu Tongue and Brains. Half Calf's Head, grilled. (Remove—Pie or Pudding.) Carrot Soup. Bacon, Greens round. Saddle of Mutton. Potatoes and Salad, at side table. Young Greens. Boiled neck of Mutton. Baked Plum Pudding. Currie of dressed Meat in Casserole of Bice. Turnips. Edgebone of Beef. Carrots. Vegetable Soup. Greens. Pulled Turkey or Fowl, Leg broiled. Potatoes. Boiled Fowls. ( Remove—Snowballs.) Patties of Greens, and dressed Meat. mashed Turnips. Chine of Bacon Pork, boiled.814 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Macaroni Pudding. Potatoes. SEVEN DISHES. Salmon and fried Smelts. Stewed Celery. Giblet Soup. Roast Beef. Veal Patties. Leg of Pork boiled. Peas Pudding. Bread Sauce. Onion Soup. Turnips Plum-pudding, and Potatoes. baked. Large Fowl, dressed as Turkey. Minced Veal, gamisbed with fried crumbs. Small Meat Hot Apple Pie, Potatoes Pie. in change for Soup. in a Form, Stewed Onions. Beans and Bacon. Saddle of Mutton. Carrots. Mushrooms stewed. FOUR AND FIVE. (first course.) Soup. Mashed Turnips. Bouillie. (second course.) Fricassee of Sweetbreads. Lemon Pudding. Peas. (first course.) Mackerel broiled, with Herbs. Butter. Boiled Chickens. Greens and Carrots. Bacon.315 FAMILY DIXYERS. (SECOXD COURSE.) Beef Cecils. Salad. Fruit Pie. Potatoes. ’ in a shape. Fore-quarter of Lamb roasted. SEVEN AND SEVEN. (first course.) Broiled Salmon. (Remove—Chiiie of Pork.) Stewed Spinach. Peas Soup. Oxford Dumplings. Fillet of Veal. Mince. Pies. Peas. Pudding. (Potatoes and mashed Turiiips, on side table.) (second course.) Ragout of Palates. Orange Fool. Potted Beef. Curd Star with whip. Collared Eel. Stewed Pears. Pheasant. (Bread-sauce on side table.) (first course. Cod’s Head and Shoulders. Currie of Rabbit. Eel Pie. (Remove—boiled Turkey.) Patties. Giblet Soup. Boiled Neck of Mutton, 7 Bones. Small Leg of Pork. Four .wiall dishes of Vegetables may he put round the Soup, or two served at the side table..DOMESTIC COOKERY. 316 (SECOXD COURSE.) Fricaiideau. Orange Pudding. ' Scraped Beef. Lemon Creams. ^ilchovy Toast. Tarts. Teal, or other wild Fowls. SEVEN AND KIKE. (first COURSE.) Pepper Pot. Brocoli. Tongue braised. Hunter’s Pudding. Chickens Celery, boiled. dishes in a Pyramid. Saddle of Mutton. Greens and Potatoes on the side table. (second course. Roasted Partridges, Potted Cheese. Raspberry Cardoons Cream. stewed. Lemon Pudding. Hare. Almond Cheesecakes. Celery in White Sauce. Collared Beef. Chickens. Codsounds White. Stewed Pigeons. NINE AND SEVEN. (FIRST COURSE.) Stewed Carp. Parsley Butter. Currant Jelly. Butter. Epergne. Gravy. Green Peas Soup. (Remove—Haunch Venison.) Vegetables on side table. Cheek of Bacon. Rabbits and Onions. Cutlets MaintenoiiFAMILY DINKEIIS. 317 Iklushrooms stewed. Currant Tart with Custard. (second COUIISK.’ Sweetbi eads. Sauce Robart. Trifle. Bread Sauce. Roasted Partridges. Blainange in small forms. Stewed Cucumbers. Palates, French Pie. ^"eal Olives. Stewed Pippins. Scalloped Oysters. Cray-fish in Jelly. NINE AND ELEVEN; AND A REMOVE. (first COURSE.) Turbot. {Remove—Chickens.) Li ver and Lemon Sauce. Carrot Soup. Butter. Lamb’s Fry. Tongue in Turnips. Rabbit brown in Fricassee. Edgebone of Beef. Vegetables on side Table. (second course.) Wild Fowl. French Beans. Solid Syllabub in a glass dish. Peas. Goose. Lobster in Fricassee Sauce. Stewed Mushrooms. Apricot Tart, open cover. NINE DISHES, TWO REMOVES, AND ELEVEN, (first course.) Fish. {Remove—Stejved Beef.) O.xford Dumplings. Fricandeau. Small Ham, White Soup, Turkey boiled^ Lamb Steaks Oyster Sauce, round Potatoes. Lobster Patties. Fish. {Remove—Saddle of Mutton. 2 B318 DOMESTIC COOKEKV French Beans, in White Sauce. (second course.) Sweetbreads larded. Orange Jelly. Prawns. Open Tart, Lobster. Raspberry Cream. Form. Green Goose. Sago Pudding. Stewed Mushrooms. Rabbit and Onions. Macaroni Pudding. Veal Cutlets. (first course.) Fish. (Remove—Hashed Calf's Head. Sauce. Transparent Soup. Butter. Fish, (^Remove—Sirloin of Beef.') (second course.) Lamb’s Fry. Beef-Steak Pie. Stew'ed Pigeons with Cabbage. Cheesecakes. Peas. Macaronk Chickens. Stewed Lobster. Raspberry Cream. Trifle. Asparagus. Lemon Cream. Apricot open Tart. Ducklings. Pigeons stewed. Tongue. Boiled Mutton. ELEVEN AND NINE. (first course.) Fish. {Remove—Ham Glazed.) Sauce. Gravy Soup. Sweetbread grilled. Butter. Beef-Steak Pie. Boiled Chickens. Fillet of VeaLFAMILY DINNERS. 319 Raspberry Tartlets. Collared Eel. Stawed Celery. (second course.) Pheasant. Bread-Sauce. Plateau. Gravy and Jelly for Hare. Hare. A.rticliokes. Collared Beef. Stewed Pears. ELEVEN AND ELEVEN. Oxford Puddings. Ham braised. Lamb Steaks. Potatoes. French Beans. White Sauce. Open Tartlet. Anchovy Toasts. (first course.) Stewed Beef. White Soup. Fish. Saddle of Mutton. (second course.) Sweetbreads. Orange Jelly. Whipped Cream. Wine Roll. Green Goose. Veal Fricandeau. Turkey. Oyster sauce. Lobster Patties. Prawns. Muffin Pudding. Stewed Mushrooms, ELEVEN AND ELEVEN AND TWO REMOVES. (pIRST COURSE.) Salmon. (Remove—Bnsket of Beef stexced, and high Sauce J Cauliflower. Shrimp Sauce. Giblet Soup, Potatoes. Anchovy Sauce. Fry. Stewed Cucumbers. Cutlets Maintenon Pigeon Pie. Stewed Peas and Lettuce. Veal Olives braised. Soles fried. (Rem ve—(Quarter Lamb roasted.)320 DOMESTIC COOKEm. (second course.) Young Peas. Coffee Cream. Kamakins. Lobster. Raspberry I'art. Trifle. Orange Tourt. Grated Beef. Omlet. Ducks. Roughed Jelly. LONG TABLE ONCE COVERED. Fish. Fruit Tart. One Turkey or Two PouUs. Blamange. Mock Turtle Soup. Harrico. Sweetbreads larded. Mash Turnips, Jerusalem Artichokes Stewed Carrots thick fricasseed. Spinach. round. Cray Savoy Cake Dried Salmon Fish. Macaroni Pudding. in papers. riam braised. T rifle. French Pie. Chickens. Casserole of Rice with Giblets. Picked Crab. Stewed Celery. Sea Cale. Young Sprouts. Apple Pie and Custard. Fricandeau. Ox Rumps, and Spanish Onions. Kiel) White Soup. Jelly Form. Cheesecakes. Fish. {Remove—Ve7iinon, or Loin of Veal.)321 general remarks on dinners. Things used at First Courses—Various Soups. Fish dressed many ways. Turtle. Mock Turtle. Boiled Meats and Stewed. Tongue. Ham. Bacon. Chawls of Bacon. Turkey and Fowls, chiefly boiled. Rump, Sirloin, and Rib.s of Beef roasted. Leg, Saddle, and other roast Mutton. Roast Fillet, Loin, Neck, Breast, and Shoulder of Veal. Leg of Lamb. Ixiin. Fore-Quarter. Chine. Lamb’s-head and Mince. Mutton stuffed and roasted. Steaks, va- riously prepared. Ragouts and Fricassees. Meat Pies raised, and in Dishes. Patties of Meat, Fish, and Fowl. Stewed Pigeons. Venison. LegofPork, Chine, Loin,Sparib. Rabbits. Hare. Puddings,boil- ed and baked. Vegetables, boiled and stewed. Calf’s Head different ways. Pig’s Feet and Ears different ways. In large dinners two Soups and two dishes of Fish. Things for Second Course.—Birds: and Game of all sorts. Shell-fish, cold and potted. Collared and Potted Fish. Pickled ditto. Potted Birds. Ribs of Lamb roasted. Brawn. V^egetables, stewed or in sauce. French Beans. Peas. Asparagus. Cauliflower. Fricassee. Pickled Oysters. Spinach, and Artichoke bottoms. Stewed Celery. Sea Cale. Fruit Tarts. Preserved-Fruit Tourts. Pippins stewed. Cheese- cakes, various sorts. All the list of Sweet Dishes, of which abundance are given from page 185 to 224, with directions for preparing them, such as Creams, Jellies, and all the finer sorts of Puddings, Mince Pies, &c. Omlet. Macaroni. Oysters in Scal- lops, stewed or pickled. Having thus named the sort of things used for tlie two courses, the reader will think of many others. For removes of Soup and Fish one or two joints of Meat or Fowl are served; and for one small course, the articles suited to the second must make a part.322 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Where Vegetables and Fowls, &c. are twice dressed, they add to the appearance of the table the first time; three sweet things may form the second appearance without greater expense. The Bills of Fare which have been given frompa^re 309 to 320, may be modified at discretion. In some houses, one dish at a time is sent up Avith the vegetables or sauces proper to it, and this in suc- cession hot and hot. In others, a course of Soups and Fish; then Meats and boiled Fowls, Turkey, &c. Made Dishes and Game follow; and, lastly, Sweet Dishes ; but these are not the common modes. It is worthy observation here, that common cooks do not think of sending up such articles as are in the house, unless ordered ; though, by so doing, tlie addition of a collared or pickled thing, some Frit- ters, fried Patties, or quick-made Dumplings, would be useful when there happen to be accidental A isitors : and at all times it is right to better the appearance of the table rather than let things spoil beloAv, by which the expense of a family is more in- creased than can be easily imagined. Vegetables are put on the side-table at large dinners, as like- Avise sauces, and servants bring them round: but some inconveniences attend this plan ; and, when there are not many to Avait, delay is occasioned, besides that, by awkwardness, the clothes of the company may be spoiled. If the table is of a due size, the articles alluded to will not fill it too much. SUPPERS. Hot suppers are not much in use Avhere peopk, bne very late. When required, the top and bottom, or either, may be Game. Fowls. Rabbit. Boiled F'ish, such as Soles, Mackerel. Oysters stewed or scalloped. French Beans. Cauliflower, or Jeru- salem Artichokes, in Avhite Sauce. Broccoli AvithGENERAL REMARKS ON DINNERS. 323 Eggs. Stewed Spinach and ditto. Sweetbreads. Small Birds. Mushrooms. Potatoes. Scallop, &c. Cutlets. Roast Onions. Salmagundy. But- tered Eggs on Toast. Cold Neat’s Tongue. Ham. Collared things. Hunter’s Beef sliced. Rusks buttered, with Anchovies on. Grated Hung Beef with butter, with or without Rusks. Grated Cheese round, and Butter dressed in the middle of a plate. Radishes ditto. Custards in glasses with Sippets. Oysters cold or pickled. Potted Meats. Fish. Birds. Cheese, &c. Good plain Cake, sliced. Pies of Birds or Fruit. Crabs. Lobsters. Prawns. "Cray-fish. Any of the list of sweet things. Fruits. A Sandwich set with any of the above articles, placed a little distance from each otheroa the table, looks well, without the tray, if preferred. The lighter the things the better they appear, and glass intermixed has the best effect. Jellies, dif- ferent coloured things, and flowers, add to the beauty of the table. An elegant supper may be served at a small expense by those who know how to make trifles that are in the house form the greatest part of the meal. Note.—Any of the following things may be served as a relish, with the cheese, after dinner. Baked or pickled Fish done high. Dutch pickled Herring. Sardinias, which eat like Anchovy, but are larger. Anchovies. Potted Char. Ditto Lampreys. Potted Birds made high. Caviare and Sippets of Toast. Salad. Radishes. French Pie. Cold Butter. Potted Cheese. Anchovy Toast, &c. Before serv- ing a Dutch Herring, it is usual to cut to the bones without dividing, at the distance of two inches from head to tail, before servedINDEX A. ACIDS, stains caused by, in linen, various wa) s of taking out, '299 Adulieralmis, in the making of bread, how to detect, 245 Ale, very fine Welch, to brew, 247 or strong beer, to brew, 248 to refine, 249 Almond puddings, 137 baked, 137 small, 137 custard, 160 cheesecakes, 167 two other ways, 168 cream, 193 Amber pudding, a very fine one, 138 American fimoer, management of, in making bread, 243 Anchovies, to choose, 123 to keep them when the liquor dries, 123 sauce, 119 toast, 206 another way, 206 essence of, 123 to make sprats taste like anchovies, 123 Apple-waler, for the sick, 288 Apples, to prepare them for pufls, 162 dried, 218 dumplings, or pudding, 151 (rifle, 189 fool, 190 Apple, marmalade, 217 jelly to serve to table, 198; another, 198 and rice, souffle of, 185 , or gooseberry trifle, 189 jelly for preserving apricots, or for any sort of sweetmeats, 217 pie, 157 , hot, 157 pudding, baked, 139 putfs, 162 sauce for goose and. roast pork, 116 to scald codlins, 198 to keep codlins for se- veral months, 226 stewed golden pippins, 198 red apples in jelly, 217 Apricots, in brandy, 210 to dry in half, 211 a beautiful preserve of apricots, 209 , to preserve green, 210 to preserve in jelly,210 apple jelly for this purpose, 217 cheese, 211 pudding, an excellent one, 148 dumplings, 151 Arrow-root, for the sick, 279 Artichokes, to dress, 170 bottoms, 170 Jerusalem, 170 bottoms, to keep for the will ter, 177326 INDEX. Articles in season in the differ- ent months, lists of them, .309 to .312 Asses’ milk, 285 artificial, three ways of making, 285 B. Bacon, to choose, 25 , excellent, 69 the manner of curing Wiltshire bacon, 09 Bamboo, English, 180 Barberries, to prepare for tart- lets, 209 , in bunches, 209 , drops, 22.3 Z/ar/«/-water, 287; another way, 287 ffruel, 286 Batter pudding, 142 with meat, 143 Bean (green) pudding, 148 Beans, to dress, 172 , fricasseed Windsor, 172 French, 172 Bechamel, or white sauce, 110 Beef, to choose, 23 , to keep, 31 , to salt for eating imme- diately, 31 to salt red; which is extremely good to eat fresh from the pickle, or to hang ■to dry, 32 the Dutch way to salt, .32 a-la-mode, 32 a fricandeau of, 33 en miroton, 33 stewed rump of, 33 another way, 34 rump roasted, 34 stewed brisket, .35 pressed heel, 35 hunter’s beef, 35 Beef, an excellent mode of dressing, .36 ,-collared, 36 steaks, to dress, .36 and oyster sauce, 37 Staffordshire, 37 , Italian, 37 collop, .37 , palates, 37 cakes for side dish of dressed meat, .38 , potted, two W'a3’s, 38 to dress the indde of a cold sirloin, 38 , fricassee of cold roast beef, 39 to dress cold beef that has not been done enough, called beef-olives, 39 , to dress the same, called Sanders, 39 to dress the same, called cecils, 39 , minced, 39 hashed, 40 a-la-vingrette, 40 , round of beef, 40 rolled, that equals hare, 40 , heart, 42 steak pie, 129 pudding, 145 baked, 145 , a pickle for beef, that will keep for years, 68 pastry to eat as well as venison, 164 patties, or podovies, 161 broth. 277 tea, 279 Beer, (strong,) to brew, 248 , (table,) excellent, 248 , to refine, 249 Beet-root, different way* of using, 170INDEX. 327 Bfet-root, to presene to eat in the winter, 177 Benton sauce, for hot or cold roast beef, 116 tea-cakes, 239; another sort, asbiscuits, 239; another sort, 239 Bills of fare, &c. 309 to 312 Birds, a very economical way of potting, 91 Biscuit, orange, 213 cake, 239 of fruit, 221 hard, 247 • plain, and very crisp, 247 Black-caps, two ways of mak- ing, 193 pudding, 64 , two other ways, 65 Blacking for shoes, fine, 308 Blanching a rabit, fowl, &c. explained, 96 Blanc-mange, or Blamange, 188 Jaunemange, 189 Boards, to give them a beau- tiful appearance, 305 to extract oil from, 306 Backings, 153 /toerAaaae’s(Dr.)sweetbutter- milk, 288 Boiling meat, obsenations on, 27 Braising explained, 84 chickens braised, 86 pudding, 148 cream, 191 , apricots or peaches in brandy, 210 cherries in brandy, 216 Brawn, to choose, 25 souse for, 64 mock, 64 Brawn sauce, 115 Bread, to make, 243 Rev. Mr. Hagget’s economical bread, 244 management of Ame- rican flour, 243 , rice-and-wlieat bread, 244 , French bread, 245 to discover whether bread has been adulterated with whitening or chalk, 245 to detect bones, jalap, ashes, &c. in bread, 245 cake, common, 237 pudding, boiled, 141 another and richer, 141 puddings, little, 140 and butter pudding, 138 brown-bread pudding; 141 , brown-bread ice, 201 Brentford rolls, 246 Brewery (Home), 247 to 258 Brocoli, to dress, 172 Broth. A quick-made broth for the sick, 277 a clear one, that will keep long, 277 a very supporting one, against any kind of weak- ness, 277 of beef, mutton, and veal, 277 Other broths are under diflerent names; as Chicken broth, (fee. Brown-bread pudding, 141 ice, 201 Browning to colour and flavour made dishes, 126 Bubble and squeak, 44 Bun, a good plain one, 240 , richer ones, 241 Burnt cream, two ways, 191INDEX. 328 Butter, to Clarify for potted things, 92 to melt, 120 to serve as a little dish, 205 orange butter, 199 Observations respecting it, in the dairy, 265 , to make, 266 to preserve, 266 to preserve it in pans, for winter use, 267 to manage cream for whey-butter, 267 to choose it at market, 268 Buttered rice, 185 lobsters, 20 prawns and shrimps, 21 Buttermilk, 268 with bread or without, for the sick, 288 Dr. Boerhaave’s sweet buttermilk, 288 pudding, 149 c. Cabbages (red), to pickle, 172 ('■‘^d), to stew, 172 j two other ways, 173 small, to keep for the winter, 178 Cakes, &c. 231 to 242 observations on mak- ing and baking cakes, 231 iceing for cakes, 232 , to ice a very large cake, 232 a common cake, 233 a very good one, 233 an excellen cake, 233 a very fine one, 233 , rout drop-cakes, 234 fitt...,, flat cakes that will keep long in the house good, 234 Cakes, little white cakes, 234 little short cakes, 235 plum-cake, 235 ; an- other way, 235 very good common plum-cakes, 236 little ones, to keep long, 236 a good pound-cake, 236 a cheap seed-cake, 236; another, 237 common bread cake 237 , queen cakes; two ways of making, 237 , Shrewsbury cakes, 238 Tunbridge cakes. 238 rice-cake, two ways of making, 238 , water-cakes, 238 , sponge cakes, 239; an other, without butter, 239 tea-cakes, 239 , Benton tea-cakes, 239 ; as biscuits, 239 ; an- other sort, 239 , biscuit-cake, 239 , Yorkshire cake, 216 , tipsy, 108 Cake-trifle, 189 Cale (sea), 177 Calf's-feet broth ; two ways, 276 jBlly, 196 , another sort, 196 Culf’s-head, to boil, 52 , to hash, 52 , another way, 52 , fricasseed, 53 to collar, 53 , a cheaper war 54; another, 54; another, 55indkx. 329 x-alf's-head pie, l:iO Culf’s-liver, broiled, 55 , rousted, 55 liver iiiul lights, to dress, 55 roasted, 55 Cul/’s-brains, a la Mnitre d’Hdtel, 56 Calico furniture, to clean when taken down lor the summer, 302 Camp vinegar, 120 To Candy any soxi. of fruit, 209 Capers, to keep, 185 , an excellent substitute for caper-sauce, 113 , iiusturlions pickled for, 121 Capillaire, 286 Carmel cover for sweetmeats, 195 Carp, to choose, 2 boiled, 11 stewed, 11 (like lamprev), 23 ....... baked, 12 Carpets, to dust, 305 , to clean, 305 Carrier sauce for mutton, 117 Currole of rice, 203 Gtrrots, to boil, 175 to stew, 175 to preserve, to eat in the winter, 177 pudding, 147 soup, 103 Casserol, or rice edging for a currie or fricassee, 126 Cast-iron, to clean stoves of, 307 another way, 307 Caudle, for the sick; three ways of making, 282 a flour caudle, good for babies who have weiik stomachs, 282 Caudle, rice, 282; another, 282 , cold, 282 to give away to the poor sick, and lying-in, 292 Caulijloiuers, to boil, 171 in white sauce, 171 to dress with Parmesan, 171 Caveac/t, pickled mackerel so called, 13 Cecils, 39 Celery, to stew, 171 Cement for broken china, 297 Roman, for outside plastering, or brickwork, 296 Chantilly cake, 189 Chapped hands, paste for, 296 lips, ointment for, 296 Chardoons, various w'ajs of dressing, 176 to stew, 176 Charlotte, A, 151 Cheese, to pot, 206 , roast, to come up after dinner, 205 IVelch rabbit, 206 toast, 206 , damson cheese, 220 , muscle-plum cheese, 221 Cheese is also under dill'erent names; us Cream cheese. Apricot &c. Observations respect- ing it in the dairy, 260 to prepare rennet to turn the milk; two ways, 262 to make cheese, 262 to preserve it sound, 263 to make sage cheese, 261 cream cheese, 264330 INDEX. CJieese, rush cream cheese, 265 C/ieesecakes,Ught paste for, 158 , way of making them, 100 , a plainer sort, 166 another way, 166 lemon, 166 another, 167 orange, 167 a very fine crust for them, when to be particularly nice, 156 , potato, 167 almond, 167 two other ways, 168 Cheese-puff's, 162 Cherry-pie, 157 Cherries, to keep (like cur- rants), 226 in brandy, 216 , to dry cherries with sugar, 215 without sugar, 215 to dry them the best way, 216 ,jam, 216 , to preserve, 226 CJiickens, to pot with ham, 48 scallops of cold, 50 fricassee of, 84 , to pull chickens, 85 another way, 85 to braise chickens, 86 chicken-currie, 85 another, more easily made, 86 chicken and parsley pie, 130 chicken-pie, 132 , raised crust for, 135 broth, 278 panada, for the sick, 286 Chickens, to fatten chickens la four or five days, 271 Chimney-pieces; stone, to blacken the fronts of, 308 China, broken, a cement for, 297 China-chilo, 76 -orange '] uice, good to mix with water for fevers, 229 Chocolate, to prepare, 284 cream, 193 Clary w'ine, 254 Cocoa, patent, 284 Clouted cream, 195 Cockle ketchup, 184 Cod, to choose, 1 , obsenations on buying and dressing, 8 .... head and shoulders, 8 crimp, 9 sounds, boiled, 9 broiled, 9 dressed, to look like small chickens, 9, 308 sounds ragout, 9 curry of cod, 10 salt, to dress, 10 pie, i27 Codlins to keep for several, months, 226 , to scald, 196 tart, 159 cream, 193 Coffee, to make, 283 cream, much admired, 193 milk, 283 Co//e^e(New) puddings, 140 Colouring for soups or gravies, 98 to stain jellies, ices, or cakes, 201 Cbllops, mutton, 73 , veal collops, 49 another way, 50 Scotch collops, 51 veal, dressed quick, 49INDEX 331 Cookery for the sick, 2*tf to •290 for the poor, 290 to 293 i.'oiig/i, extract of mult for, 2-19 Vow-hceh, various wa3's of dressing, 44 , jelly of, useful for •soups and gravies, 97 Cows, management of, 2d9 Coicslip-meatl, 255 Crabs, to choose, 3 , hot, 21 dressed, cold, 21 Crack-nuts, 240 Cracknels, 240 Cranberries, different ways of dressing, 229 jelly, 197 and rice jelly, 197 Craster, Fish-sauce a-la-cras- ter, 118 Craw-Jish soup, 108 Cray-fish in jellj-, 21 Creaking oi doors, bow to pre- vent. 308 Cream. A cream, 190 , an excellent one, 190 burnt, two ways of doing, 191 , sack, 191 brandy, 191 ratafia, two wajs of making, 191 lemon, 192 yellow lemon-cream, without cream, 192 white lemon cream, 192 imperial, 192 almond, 193 snow, 193 cofl'ee-cream, much admired, 193 chocolate, 193 cotllin, 193 Cream, orange cream, an ex- cellent one, 193 raspberry, two ways of making, 194 spinach, 194 pistachio, 194 clouted cream, 19,5 a froth to set on cream, whicli looks and eats well, 195 , ice creams, 201 ratafia cream, 201 to manage cream in the dairy for making whey- butter, 267 to scald, as in the West of England, 267 to keep, 268 , syrup of, 268 Cream-cheese; three w=aj's of making, 264 , rush cream- cheese; two waj-.s of making it, 265 Crickets, to destroy, .302 Crust, raised, for meat-pies or fowls, 135 for venison pasty, 154 , raised, for custards or fruit, 155 , excellent short, 155 another, 155 another, not sweet, but rich, 156 , a very fine one for orange cheese-cakes, or sweetmeats, when required to be particularly nice, 156 for meat-pies or fowls, (fee. See also the article paste. Cucumbers, to stew, 170 another way, 170 and onions, sliced, to picklo, 181INDEX, 332 "ucumhers, 1,0 preserve them gieen, 176 vinegar, 121 to pickle young cu- cumbers, 182 CuUis, or brown gravy, 109 Curd-star, 188 Curds and cream, 188 another wa}', 188 and whey, Gallino, as in Italy, 268 puddings or puffs, 149 pudding, boiled, 149 Currants, to keep, 225 dumplings, or pud- ding, 151 pie, 167 and raspberry pies or tarts, 158 j®lly> or black, 217 jam, black, red, or white, 216 sauce, the old, for venison, 117 ,white-currant shrub, 258 water-ice, 201 wine, 251 another way, 251 black-currant wine, very fine, 251 Currie, rice boiled to eat with, 126 Custards, raised crusts for, 155 cheap and excellent ones, 165 richer, 165 , baked, 165 , lemon, 165 almond, 166 , a froth to set on custard, which looks and eats well, 195 Custard pudding, 147 Cutlets, Maintenon, 49 another way, 49 other ways, 49 Cyder, to refine, 219 D. Dairy, 259 to 269 Damsons, to keep (like cur- rants), 226 to keep for winter pies, 227 ; another way 227) another, 228 cheese, 220 dumplings, or pudding, 151 Davenport fowls, 83 Deeds (old), a wash to make their writing legible, 331 DevonsUire 202 Dinners, general remarks con- cerning, 321 to 323 Doors, to prevent from creak- ing, 308 Drink, a very agreeable one for the sick, 286 a refreshing one in a fever, 286 two others, 286 a most pleasant drink, 287 draught for a cough, 287 Drops, lemon, 223 , barberry, 223 , ginger; a good sto- machic, 223 , peppermint, 224 ratafia, 224 Ducks, to choose, 80 to roast, 86 , to boil, 87 to stew, 87 , to hash, 87 , wild, to dress, 92 , sauce for, 113 , pie, 132 Slanagement of ducks in the poultry-yard, 2733b3 INDEX DuAc 0/ Cumberland's pud~ ding, 142 Dumplings, Oxford, 150 , suet, IM npple, 151 , currant, 151 damson, 151 yeast, or Suffolk, 151 Dun-birds, to dress, 92 Dunelm of cold veal or fowl, 48 Dutch flummery, 187 pudding, orsouster, 139 rice pudding, 139 sauce for meat or fish, 115 To Dye the linings of furniture, &c‘ 330 gloves, 331 E. Eels, to choose, 2 spitchcock, 17 fried, 17 boiled, 17 , broth, 17 for the sick, 278 collared, 17 stewed (like lamprey), 18 soup, 106 pie, 127 Eggs, Imttered, 207 Scotch, 207 to poach, 206 .... sauce, 114 wine, for the sick, 281 little eggs for turtles, 126 mince pies, 158 different ways of prepar- ing eggs for the sick, 281 to choose eggs at mar- ket, and to preserve them, 272 Elder-wine, 253 Elder-xehie, white, very much like Frontiniac, 253 English bamboo, 180 English wines, remarks otr- 250 Essence of anchovies, 123 Eve’s pudding, 142 Extract of malt for coughs, 249 F. Family dinners, list of, 312, &c. Feathers, care and manage- ment of, 272 Fevers: China-orange juice, a very useful thing to mix with water, in fevers, when the fresh Juice cannot be had, 229 Firmity, Somersetshire, 187 Fish, 1 to 23 ...how to choose, 1 , observations on dressing, 4 to force, 125 pie, a remarkably fine one, 128 gravy, strong, 111 sauce for fish-pies, 116 jelly, to cover cold fish, 112 sauce without butter, 118 sauce a-la-craster, 118 ,a very fine fish-sauce, 117 Flannels, to make them keep their colour, and not shrink, 300 Floating island, 186 another way, 186 Floor-cloths, directions respect- ing them, 304 to clean thoneINDEX. 334 Floors, to dust, 305 Flounders, to choose. 3 , to fry, 18 Flour, American; management of, in making bread, 243 Ftununery, 186 Dutch, 187 , rice, 187 Fondue, 205 Fool, gooseberry, 190 apple, 190 , orange, 190 Forcemeat, to make, 123 for patties, balls, or stuffing, 123 ingredients for, 124 to force meat or fowls, 124 for cold savoury pies, 125 very fine forcemeat- balls for fish-soups, or fish stewed, on maigre day, 125 , ns for turtle, at the Bush, Bristol, 125 Forcing, exj)lained, 124 Fowls, to choose, 79 boiled, 82 boiled with rice, 83 , roasted, 83 , broiled, two ways, 83 , Davenport fowls, 83 a nice way to dress a fowl, for a small dish, 84 to force, 84 to braise, 84 , fricassee of chickens, 84 , sauce for, 113 , a good sauce for hiding the bad colour of fowls, 112 white sauce for fricassee of fowls, 112 sauce for cold fowls, 114 mushroom sauce for fowls, 114 lemon white sauce for boiled fowls, 114 Fowls, to blanch, 98 , a dunelm of cold, 48 , to roast wild fowl, 92 vingaret, for cold fowl, 120 , collops of cold chicken, 50 , to pot chicken with ham, 48 Management of fowls in the poultry-yard, 209 , to fatten them in four or five days, 271 French-beans, to dress, 172 to preserve to eat in the winter, 177 French pie, 13 4 bread,2 45 rolls, 245 Fricandeau of beef, 33 of veal, 50 a chenirer, but equally good one, 50; another wa^', 51 Fricassee of fowls, rabbits, &c. sauce for, 112 crust for, 135 of parsnips, 175 Fritters, 153 , Spanish, 153 , potato, 143 another way, 1.53 Froth, to set on cream, cus- tard, or trifle, which looks and eats well, 195 Fruit, to preserve for tnits, or family-desserts, 228 raised crusts for, 155 , remark on using pre- served fruit in pastrj', 156 , to preserve for winter use, 224 , to prepare for children ; a far more wholesome way than in pies and puddings, 200INDEX. 335 Fruit, to green, for preserving or pickling, 208 to candy any sort of, 209 biscuits of, 221 stains, how to take them out of linen, 299 Frt/ing herbs, ns dressed in Staffordshire, 170 the Stallbrdshiredish of frying-herhs and liver, 207 Furniture linings, to dye them of different colours, dOO calico, to clean, when taken down for the summer, 302 Furs, to preserve from moths, 300 G. Gallino curds and whey, as in Italy, 268 Gajie, &c. 79 to 96 to choose, 79 to 81 directions for dressing, 81 George pudding, 144 German light puddings, or pull’s, 110 Giblets, to stew, 87 soup, 99 pie, ’32 stewed giblets, 87 Gihling, to preserve and clean, 303 Ginger drops, a good stoma- cliic, 223 wine, excellent, 252 another, 252 Gingerbread, 241 another sort, 241 a good plain sort, 241 a good sort, with- out butter, 211 Gloss, a fine one for oak-wain- scots, 304 Gloucester jelly for the sick, 280 Gloves, to dye them like York tan, or Limerick, 331 to dye while ones a beautiful purple, 331 Golden-pippins, stewed, 198 Geese, to choose, 80 to roast, 87 green-goose pie, 132 Management of geese in the poultry-yard, 273 Gooseberries, to keep, 226 , another way, 226 , another, 227 trifle, 189 fool, 190 hops, 218 jam, for tarts, 218 another, 218 white, 218 pudding, baked, 148 vinegar, 120 Granary, to preserve from in- sects or weasels, 302 Grates, to clean the backs of, 307 Gravies, 108 to 112 general directions respecting, 96 , colouring for, 98 a clear brown stocK for gravy-soup or gravy, 98 soup, 102 to draw gravy that will keep a week, 109 , a clear gravy, 109 brown gravy, or cullis, 109 a rich gravy, 110 a gravy without meat, 110 for a fowl, when there is no meat to make it of, 111INDEX 336 Gravies to make mutton eat like venison, 111 , a strong fish gravy, 111 Grayline, to fry, 12 Green, to stain jellies, ices, or cakes, 201 to green fruits for preser- ving, serving or pickling, 208 Green sauce for green-geese, or ducklings, 115 Greengages, to preserve, 220 -goose pie, 133 Ground-rice pudding, 160 milk, 284 Grouse, to dress, 92 Gruel, water, 286 barley, 286 Giulgeons, to choose, 2 Guinea fowl, to dress, 93 management of Guinea-hens in the poultry- yard, 2T5 H. Haddock, 14 to dry, 14 stuffing for, 14 Hagget, Rev. Mr., his econo- mical bread, 244 Hair; an excellent water, to inrevent it from falling olT, and to thicken it, 296 Halls, stone, how to clean, 300 Hams, to choose, 25 to cure, 66 two other ways of curing them, 67 another wa}’, that gives a high flavour, 67 a method of giv- ing a still higher flavour, 67 a pickle for them, that will keep for years, 68 to dress hams, 68 sauce, 117 Hangings, paper, to clean, 303 Hares, to choose, 80 , directions concerning, 9;i to roast, 94 to prepare and keep, 94 to jug an old hare, 94 , broiled and hashed, 95 pie to eat cold, 134 , to pot, 95 soup, 104 Harrico of veal, 47 of mutton, 7 1 Harslet, 64 Hartshorn jeWy, 197 Hay, green; to prevent it from firing, 331 Heart, beef, 42 Hearths (the inner), to clean, 307 another way, 307 He?is, to make them lay, 271 Herb pie, 135 the Staffordshire dish of frying herbs and liver, 176 Herrings, to choose, 1 to smoke, 18 (fried, 18 broiled, 19 , (red,) to dress, 19 potted, 19 (like lobsters,) 20 , baked, 19 Hessian soup and ragout, 104 Hog's head, to make excellent meat of, 61 cheeks, to dry, 63 ears, to force, 63 puddings, white, 66 lard, 66 Home-brewery, 247 to 258 Honey-coinb, lemon, 202 water, to make, 296 Hops, gooseberry, 218 Hotch-Potch, an excellent one; 75INDEX. 337 Hotch-Potch, another, *5 House-lamb steaks, white, 77 brown, 77 Hungary-water, to make, 290 Hunter’s beef, 35 pudding, 146 I, Iceing for tarts, 255 for cakes, 232 to ice a very large cake, 232 lee, how to prepare for iceing, 200 ..., ice waters, 200 , currant or rasp- berry water-ice, 201 brown-bread ice, 201 creams, 201 .... colouring for staining ices, 201 Imperial, 256 cream, 192 Indian pickle, 178 Ink, black, to make, 297 another way, 297 Iron-moulds, to take them out of linen, 299 Iron-stains, to take them out of marble, 306 Irons, to preserve them from rust, 307 ..... another way, 307 J. Jams. Cherry jam, 216 currant jam, red, black, or white, 216 gooseberry jam for tarts, 218 white, 219 nispberry jam, 219 Jurganel pears, to preserve most beautifully, 218 Jelly, a savoury one for pies, to eat cold, 111 Jelly, to cover cold fish, 112 call’s feet jelly, 196 orange, 197 , hartshorn, 197 , cranberry, 197 cranberry and rice jelly, 197 apple, to serve at table, two ways of making, 197 to cover meat or any relishing pie, to be eaten cold, 111 ,colourings to stain jillies, 201 currant jelly, red or black, 217. apple jelly, for preserv- ing apricots, or for any sort of sweetmeats, 217. red apples in jelly, 217 Jellies for the sick, 279 Dr. Ratclill’s restora- tive pork-jelly, 279 shank-jelly, 279 , arrow-root jelly, 279 , tapioca jelly, 279 , Gloucester jelly, 280 , Other jellies are under the names of the different principal articles they are made of; ns Calf sfeet &c. Jerusalem artichokes, to dress, 170 .lugged hare, 94 Junket, Devonshire, 202 K. Kebobbed mutton, 75 Ketchup, mushroom, 183 another way, 184 w'alnut, of the finest sort, 184 cockle, 184 Kidney veal, 56 mutton, 7.5 pudding, 145INDEX 338 Kitchen pepper, 122 L. La?nb, to choose, 24 leg. 16 fore quarter, T6 breast and cucumbers, 76 slioulder forced, with sor- rel sauce, 76 steaks, 77 ,house-lamb steaks, white. cutlets with spinach, 77 head and hinge, 77 , lambs fry, 78 sweetbread, 78 Lambstones fricasseed, 78 fricassee of them and sweetbreads, another way, 78 a very nice dish, 79 Lamprey, to stew, as at Wor- cester, 17 Lard, 66 Larks ani other small birds, to dress, 90 Lavender water, to make, 296 Laver, 177 Leek soup, Scotch, 104 and pilchard pie, 129 Lemons, to keep, for puddings, &c. 215 , mince pies, 158 , to preserve in jelly, 214 , cheesecake, 166 another, 166 cream, 192 yellow, with- out cream, 192 white ditto, 192 custards, 165 drops, 223 honeycomb, 202 marmalade, 211 juice, to keep, 228 Leman, pickled lemons, 181 lemon pickle, 178 pudding, an excellent one, 138 pulls, 162 ,111 white sauce, for boilei fowls or a fricassee, 114 syrup, 286 water, for the sick, 187 and vinegar whey, 288 Lemonade, to be made a day before wanted, 230 another way, 230 that has the flavour and appearance of jelly, 230 for the sick, 289 Lent potatoes, 185 Light, or German, puddings or pulls, 140 Lights (calf’s) and liver, to dress, 58 Linen, how to take stains of fruit or acids out of, 229; also iron-moulds and mildew, 299 Linings of furniture, to 636 of different colours, 300 List of different articles in sea- son in each month, 309 to 312 Liver (calf’s) broiled, 55 roasted, 55 the Staffordshire dish of frying-herbs, and liver, 176 sauce, 114 Lobsters, to choo.se, 3 , to pot them, 19 to pot another way, as at NVood’s hotel, 19 slewed, as a very high relish, 20 buttered, 20 to roast, 20 curry of them, 20 soup, excellent, 107 sauce, 119339 INDEX Lohsfer-mnce, another way, 119 -pie, 128 -putties, 161 -salad, 174 London syllabub, 201 Looking-glasses, to clean, 302 M. Macaroni, as usually served, 204 , two other wa}'s, 204 , dressed sweet, a very nice dish of, 186 soup, 100 pudding, 147 Macaroons, 210 Mackerel, to choose, 2 boiled 13 broiled, 13 collared, 13 potted, 13 (like lobsters), 20 pickled, 13 pickled, called ca- veach, 13 pie (like cod), 127 Magnum bonttm i>lums, 222 Mahogany, to give a fine colour to, 304 to take ink out of, 304 Maids, 11 Malt, extract of, for coughs, 249 Mangoes, melon, ISO Marble, to take stains out of, 306 iron-stains, 306 Marmalade, orange, 211 quince, 221 lemon, 211 transparent, 211 apple, 217 Marrow-bones, 43 vegetable, 169* Mead, sack, 255 cowslip, 255 Meat, 23 to t9 to choose, 23 to 25 observations on pur- chasing, keeping, and dress- ing, 25 to 28 to keep meat hot, 29 Melon mangoes, 180 Melted butter, an essential ar- ticle, rarely well done, 120 Mildew, to take it out of linen, 299 Milk, to keep in the dairy, 268 , rice and sago, 202 , coffee milk, 283 , ground-rice milk, 284 sago milk, 285 , asses’ milk, 285 Milk-yorridge, 284 French, 284 Milk-punch, or verder, 258 ;liV//e< pudding, 147 Mince-pie, 157 without meat, 157 lemon, 158 ,egg. 158 patties resembling mince pies, 162 Mock-brawn, 64 Mock-turtle, 54 a cheaper way, 54 another, 54 another, 55 Moor-game, to pot, 92 Morels and truffles, useful tt thicken soups and sauces, 97 how to preserve them in the win- ter, 178 Mortar, Roman, for outside plastering, or brick-work, 298 Muffins, 246 Mulled wine, two ways, 283 Mullets, to choose, 2 , red, to dress, 13 Muscle-plum cheese, 221340 IXDKX jihishrooms, observations re- specting, 173 , to drj', 122 , an excellent way to pickle, to presen'e the flavour, 183 ketchup, 183 another way, 184 to stew, 173 powder, 122 sauce, very fine for fowls or rabbits, 114 Mustard, to make, 121 another way, for immediate use, 122 Mutton, to choose, 24 observations, on keep- ing and dressing, 69 leg, 70 neck, 70 shoulder roasted, 70 haunch, 71 saddle, to roast, 71 fillet braised, 71 harrico, 71 , to hash, 72 shoulder, boiled with oysters, 72 hreast, 72 loin, 73 rolled loin, 73 ham, 73 collops, 73 cutlets in the Portu- guese way, 74 steaks, 74 , steaks of mutton, or lamb, and cucumbers, 74 steaks Maintenon, 74 sausages, 74 rumps and kidney, 75 an excellent hotch- potch, 75 another, 75 kehobbed, 75 China chilo, 76 Mutton broth, Scotch, 97 pudding, 145 another, 146 pasty, to eat us well as venison, 164 N. Nasturtions, to pickle, for ca- pers, 121 A'e/soji puddings, 141 New College puddings, 140 Norfolk two ways, 258 Nuts (crack), 240 dough, 168 o. Oak-wainsoot, fine, to give a gloss to, 304 Oatmeal pudding, 139 Oil, how to extract from board* or stone, 306 Old deeds. Charters, &c. on paper or parchment, when the writing is obliterated or sunk, to make it legible, 331 Olives, 181 Omelet, 204 Ojiio7is, pickled, 181 sliced with cucumbers, 181 sauce, 114 soup, 103 to stew, 171 to roast, 171 store-onions, to pre- serve in winter, 177 Orangeade for the sick, 289 Orawg^c butter, 199 marmalade, 211 biscuits, or little cake^ 213 cheesecakes, 167 , a very nice crust for orange cheese- cakes, 156 chips, 213 fool, 190 cream, excellent, 190INDEX. 341 0,-ange jelly, 197 (China) juice ; a very useful thing to mix with wa- ter in fevers, when the fresh juice cannot be had, 2'2d juice, buttered, 213 pudding, three ways of making, 138 tart, 159, 160 Orange-flower cakes, 214 Oranges, to butter, 199; to butter hot, 212 buttered orange-juice, a cold dish, 213 , to keep, for puddings, <i;c. 215 , preserved, to fill; a corner dish, 212 , whole, carved, 212 , to preserve in jelly, 214 Orgeat, two ways, 229 for the siek, 289 , another way, 332 Ortolans, to roast, 93 tr-cheek stewed, plain, 42 to dress it another way, 43 ... feet, various ways of dress- ing, 44 ... rump soup, 104 Oxford dumplings, 150 Oysters, to choose, 3 to feed, 21 to stew, 22 boiled, 22 scalloped, 22 fried, to garnish boiled fish, 22 loaves, 22 to pickle, 22 another way, 23 patties, 160 or small pies, 161 sauce to beef-steaks, 50 sauce, 119 Oyster soup, 108 mouth ditto, 108 P. Paint, to clean, 303 Palates, beef, 37 Panada, made in five minutes, for the sick, 280 , two others, 280 chicken, 280 Pancakes, common, 152 , fine ones, fried with- out butter or lani, 152 Irish, 152 , of rice, 152 , New England, 152 Paper, black, for drawing pat- terns, 297 Paper-hangings, to clean, 303 Parmesan and cauliflower, how to dress, 171 Parsley sauce, when no pars- ley leaves are to be had, 115 pie, 135 to preserve for the winter, 177 Parsnips, fricassee of, 175 to mash, 175 to preserve, to eat in the winter, 177 Partridges, to choose, 80 to roast, 91 to pot, 91 a very cheap way, 91 sauce for them cold, 114 soup,100 pie in a dish, 134 Paste, rich puflf, 154 a less rich one, 154 rich, for sweets, 154 rice, for relishing things, 155 potato, 155 light, for tarts and cheesecakes, J58 strong, for paper, 308342 INDF.X. Paste for chapped lips, 2i»6 for chapped hands, 290 royal, called “au choux,” 168* Pastry, 154 to 168 observations on, 156 remark on using pre- served fruit in, 156 Pasty, to prepare venison for, 163 venison pasty, 163 of beef or mutton, to eat as well as vemson, 161 potato, 164 Patent coeoa, 284 Patties, fried, 163 oyster, 160 , or small pie, 161 lobster, 161 beef, orpodovies, 161 veal, 161 turkey, 161 sweet, 162 , resembling mince-pies, 162 force-meat for, 123 Other patties are under the names of the articles they are made of. Peaches in brandy, 210 Pea-fowl, to dress, 93 management of them in the poultry-yard, 274 Pears, stewed, 199 baked, 199 , jargonel, to preserve most beautifully, 218 Peas, to boil, 169* (old) soup, 101 , (green) ditto, 101 to stew, 169* , to keep, 109* ..another way, as practised in the emperor of Russia’s kitchen, 169* Pepper, kitchen, 122 Peppermint drops, 224 Pepper-pot, 100 to 107 Perch, 12 to choose, 2 to fiy(like trout), 12 Pettitoes, 61 Pewter (patent) porter-pots, to clean, 308 Pheasants, to choose, 81 to roast, 91 Pickles, 178 to 185 rules to be obser- ved with regard to them, 178 pickle that will keep for years, for hums, tongiuss, or beef, 68 Pickles are under the names of the articles pickled. Pies, savoury, 126 to 136 observations on, 126 , fruit-pies, 157, &c. Pies are under the names of the principal articles they are made of; as Apple pie. Eel pie, &c. Pi" (sucking), to scald, 60 , to roast, 60 Pig’s cheek, to prepare for boiling, 62 head collared, 62 feet and ears, difVerent wajs of dressitig, 63 fricasseed, 63 jelly of feet and ears, 64 ... , souse for, 64 harslet, 64 Pigeons, to choose, 80 various ways of dress- ing, 87 , to stew, two ways, 88 , to broil, 88 to roast, 88 to pickle, 88 in Jelly, 89INDEX. 343 Pigeons, the same, a beautiful dish, S9 , to pot, 90 pie, 134 , management of live pigeons, 2*5 Pi/ce, to choose, 2 , to bake, 14 stuffing for,14 Pilchard and leek pie, 129 Pipers, to dress, 14 Pippin pudding, 149 tart, 159 stewed golden pippins, 198 Pistachio-CTcnm, 194 Plaice, an excellent way of dressing a large one, 16 Plate, to clean, 302 Plovers, to choose, 80 to dress, 93 to dress their eggs, 93 P/M/«s,Magnum-honum plums excellent as a sweetmeat, or in tarts, though bad to eat raw, 222 Plum cake, two ways of rank- ing, 235 very good common ones, 236 little ones, to keep long, 236 Plum pudding, common, 147 Podovies, or beef patties, 161 Pomade divine, to make, 294 Pomatum, soft, to make, 25>3 another way, 293 hard, 291 Poor, cookery for, 290 to 293 general remarks and hints on this subject, 290 Pork, to choose, 24 to salt for eating imme- diately, 31 Pork, remarks on cutting up, &c. 56 , to roast a leg, 57 to boil a leg, 57 loin and neck, roast, 58 , shoulders and breasts, 58 rolled neck, 58 spring or forehand, 58 , sparerib, 58 griskin, 58 blade-bone, 58 to dress pork as lamb, 59 to pickle, 59 steaks, 59 sausages, 59 an excellent sausage to eat cold, 59 pies, excellent to eat cold, 131 jelly, l^r- Ratcliffs resto- rative, 279 Porker's head, to roast, 62 Portable »nu\>, 105 Pot-poxirri, to make, 294 a quicker sort of sweetpot, 295 Potatoes, to boil, 174 to broil, 174 to roast, 175 to fry, 175 to mash, 175 , cheesecakes, 167 Lent, 185 paste, 155 pasty, 164 pie, 135 pudding, an excellent plain one, 145 pudding with meat, 145 rolls, 216 Potted shrimps, 21 Potting birds, a very cheap way of, 91 to clarify butter for potted things, 92344 INDEX. Poultry, &c. 79 to 96 directions for dress- ing, 81 Poultry-YARD, 269 to 276 Pound cake, good, 236 Praw)is, to choose, 3 , curry of, 20 to butter, 21 and cray-fish in jelly, 21 soup, 108 Presirves, &c. 185 to 231 Preserved fruit, remarks on using it in pastry, 156 to preserve fruit for winter use, 224 to 228 Prune tart, 159 Puddings, &c. 136 to 153 observations on ma- king them, 136 ..., a quick-made one, 150 in haste, 110 to keep oranges or lemons for, 215 Other puddings are under the names of the prin- ciple articles they are made of, or their first names; as Bread pudding, Light pud- ding, <fec. Puff-^nsie, rich, 151 less rich, 154 , light or German pufis, 14 t , excellent light ones, 162 apple-puffs, 162 lemon-pulls, 162 cheese-putts, 162 to prepare apples for ■ pull's, 162 Ptdts d'amour, 186 Punch, an excellent method of making, 257 milk, or verder, 257 ....... Norfolk, two ways, 258 Purple, a beautiful one fo» dying gloves, 331 Q. Quails, to dress, 93 Quaking \}Ci.Mn\g, 1-42 Queen cakes, two waj s of ma- king, 237 Quick-made pudding, 150 Quinces, to preserve whole or half, 221 , quince marmalade, 221 R. Rabbits, to choose, 80 , various ways of dress- ing, 95 to make them taste much like hare, 95 , to pot, 96 to blanch, 96 pie, (like chicken,) 132 , fricasseed, crust for, 135 management of live rab- bits, 276 Ragout (Hessian), and soup, 104 Raised crust for custards or fruit, 155 for meat-pies or fowls, &c. 135 Raisin wine, excellent, 254 , with cyder, 255 without cyder, 255 Ramakins, 205 Raspberry tart with cream, 160 brandy, 250 cakes, 224 cream, two ways. 194INDEX. 345 Raspberry, jam, 219 another way 220 jelly, for ices or creams, 310 vinegar, 230 vinegar-water, for the sick, 2S8 water-ice, 201 wine, two ways of making, 261 and currant tart, 158 Ratafia, 256 cream, 201 another way, 284 drops, 224 Ratcliff's (Dr.) restorative pork-jelly, 279 Receipts, various, 293 to 302 Red, a beautiful one, to stain jellies, ices, or cakes, 201 Red apples, in jelly, 2IT Red cabbage, to stew, 172 to pickle, 183 Red herrings, to dress, 19 Red mullet, to dress, 13 Rennet, to prepare it to turn the milk in making cheese, 262 Restorative, a great one, 281 , two others, 281 another, a most pleasant draught, 281 pork-jelly, 279 Rhubarb tart. 160 Rice, savoury, 203 edging, or casserol, 126 boiled to eat with currie or roast meats, 340 carrole of, 203 buttered, 185 cake, two ways, 238 and wheat bread, 244 candle for the sick, 282 another, 282 Rice, flummery, 187 and apple, souffle of, 135 milk, 202 ground-rice milk, 284 pudding, Dutch, 139 small, 143 plain, 143 rich, 143 with fruit, 144 baked,144 ..., another, for the family, 144 ground 150 Roasting meat, observations on, 28 Robart, sauce, for rumps or steaks, 115 Rolls, excellent, 245 French, 245 , Brentford, 246 potato, 246 Roman cement, or mortar, for outside plastering, or brick- work, 298 Rot in Sheep, to prevent, 331 Rout drop cake, 234 Ruffs and reeves, to dress, 93 Rump of beef, stewed, 33 another way, 34 roasted 31 ox-rump soup, 104 mutton and kidney, 75 Rusks, 242 Russian-seed pudding, 150 Rust, to preserve irons from, 307 , to take i t out of stee 1,307 s. Sack cream, 191 mead, 255 Sage cheese, to make, 264 Sago, to prepare, for the sick, 285 to prepare, to give away to poor families, 292 milk, 285346 INDEX. Sago, pudding, 137 Salad, French, 174 , lobster, 174 Salmagundy, 203 Salmon, to choose, 1 to boil, 6 to broil, 6 , to pot, 6 to dry, 7 an excellent dish of dried, 7 , to pickle, 7 , collared, 8 Saloop, 284 Sauces, &c. 112 to 126 a very good sauce, especially, to hide the bad colour of fowls, 112 white sauce for fricas- see of fowls, rabbits, white meat, fish, or vegetables, 112 , sauce for wild-fowl, 113 another for the same, or for ducks, 113 , an excellent sauce for carp, or boiled turkey, 113 , sauce for fowl of any sort, 113 for cold fowl, or part- ridge, 113 iilalMaitred’IIotel,! 14 a very fine mushroom- sauce for fowls or rabbits, 114 lemon white sauce, for boiled fowls, 141 liver-sauce, 114 egg-sauce, 114 onion-sauce, 114 clear shalot-sauce, 115 ,parsley-sauce, to make, when no parsley-leaves can be had, 115 green-sauce, for green geese, or ducklings, 115 bread-sauce, 115 Sauce, Dutch sauce, for meat or fish, 115 , sauce Robert, for rumps or steaks, 116 , Benton sauce, for hot or cold roast beef, 116 sauce lor fish pies, where cream is not ordered; t-vo ways of making, 116 Tomata sauce, for hot or cold meats, 116 apple-sauce, for goose. and roast pork, 116 the old currant-sauce for venison, 117 lemon-sauce, 117 , carrier-sauce, for mut- ton, 117 , ham-sauce, 117 , a very fine fish-sauce, 117 another, 117 , fish-sauce without but- ter, 118 fish sauce a-la-Cruster, 118 an excellent substitute for caper-sauce, 118 oyster-sauce, 119 , lobster-sauce, two ways, 119 shrimp-sauce, 119 anchovy-sauce, 119 , w'hite-sauce, or becha- mel, 110 Some other sauces, &c. are under the names of dif- ferent dishes, or of the principal articles the sauces are made of. Satisages, veal, 51 ., pork, 59 an e.xcellent sausage to eat cold, 59 Spadbury’s Oxford sausages, 60 mutton, 74INDEX. 347 ScHops of cold veal or chicken, Soles, boiled, 15 n fried, 15 Sctch collops, 62 mutton broth, 9T leek soup, 104 egffs» 207 Sa-citle, 177 ised cake, a cheap one, 236 another, 237 (Sieee^s, richiWJCTioNs for. Sweet patties,' Si/llubub, Loniar, 115 viiiegtir, l:i0 S/mnA-jelly, for the sick, 279 Sheep; to prevent the rot in sheep, 331 Shelford pudding, 148 SJwes, a fine blacking for, 308 Short-cakes, little ones, how to make, 235 Shrewsbury cakes, 238 Shrimps, to choose, 3 to butter, 21 to pot, 21 sauce, 119 pie, excellent, 128 khruh, white currant, 258 Sick Persons, Cookery for, 276 to 289 general remarks on the subject, 276 Sippets for the sick, when the stomach will not receive meat, 280 Skate, 11 to choose, 1 crimp, 11 soup, 107 ,imeus, to choose, 2 to fry, 16 Snipes, to dress, 23 Snow may bo used instead of eggs, in puddings or pan- cakes, 152 baUs, 185 cream, 193 '' Sola, to choose, 1 another way, 15 stewed, 15 (like lamprey,) 23 in the Portugese way, 15 Portugese stuffing for soles baked, 15 pie, 128 Somersetshire firmity, 187 Sorrel, to stew, for fricandeau and roast meat, 174 Souffle of rice and apple, 185 Sounds, cod’s, to look like small chicken, 308 Soups, <fec. 96 to 112 General directions re- specting them, 96 colouring for, 98 , julienne, 98 an excellent soup, 98 an excellent white one, 98 a plainer white one, 99 a-la-sup, 105 portable, 105 soup maigre, 106 another, 106 a baked one, to give away to poor families, 290 for the weakly, for the same purpose, 292 Other soups are under the names of the principal articles they are made of. Souse for braien, and lor pig’s feet and ear.s, 64. Souster, or Dutch pudding, 139 Spndbury’s Oxford sausages,00 Sparcrib of pork, 58 Spinach, to boil, 172 ,soup, 103 Sprats, 18 to choose, 3 baked, 19 to broil, 19348 INDEX. SpraiSt to make them taste like anchovies, 123 Spunge cake, 239 ) another, without butter, 239 Squab-pie, 132 ^u^bvdshive dish of fryinu herb.s, &c, 176: with liver. 207 Stains, to hike any kind out of linen, 299 • • ., stains caused by acids. 299 ’ • • • ., another way for fruit- shiins, 299 . • • . , another, 299 • < • . , another way, 299 • . . ., stains of wine, fruit, •fee. after they have been long in the linen, 299 • • • ., many other stains, 299 ’ • . . • , to take them out of garble, 306. Iron stains, Steaks, beef, 36 'gL ' ’ ' ' 05'ster-sauce, > Staffordshire beef- steaks, 37 . . . , Italian beef-steaks, 37 . . . , sauce for, 115 • . . , beef-steak pie, 129 • > pudding, 145 H5 ' Steel, to take rust out of, 307 Stock, clear brown, for gravy- soup, or gravy, 98 • • . , for brown or white fish so ups j, 106 Stone, to extract oil from, 306 • • • . . , chimney-pieces, to blacken the fronts of, 306 *•••., stairs and halls, to clean, 306 Stoves, to take the hlucfc’ir the bright bars of policed . ones in a few minutes, 3f > another way, 30' Strawberries, to presene thni whole, 215 > to presen-e in wine, 215 ' Stucco, ext,” . . adhere to ko, for hot * , maib 298 for goose Stuffing, for ' &c. 14 • . . . > for soles baked, , • • • . , for sole, cod, or turbot pie, 125 • , forcemeat for, 124 ' Sturgeon, to dress fresh, 10 j to roast, 10 • • • • . . , an excellent imita* tion of pickled, 11 Sucking pig, to scald, 60 • , to roast, 60 Suet, to preserve it a twelve- month, 208 • • • •, pudding, 146 • . . ., veal-suet pudding, 116 \ dumplings, 1.51 | dumplings, 151 Sugar, good to be used in cu- ring meats, 164 • ... , to clarify for sw-'ct • meats, 208 ■ ..., vinegar, 120 Suppers, general remarks on 324 • • . • , dish, a i)re*<y 203 Sweet Dishes, 185, &c. Sweetbreads, 56 roasted, 56 ) ragout, 56 Sweetmeats, &c. 208 to 22 J ■ • • •) f'bsenations on, ■ V ‘ clarify sugar for, 208 .INDEX. 349 Sweettneats, a very fine crust for them, when required to be particularly nice, 15(5 a cnrmel cover for sw'eetmeats, 195 excellent sweet- meats for tarts, when fruit is plentiful, 222 Siveef-pof, to make, 205 Sweets, rich paste for, 154 Sweet patties, 162 Syllabub, London, 201 Stallbrdshire, 202 a very line Somerset- shire one, 202 everlasting, or solid, 202 Syrup of cream, 268 T. Table-beer, excellent, to brew, 248 Tansey, 186 Tapioca icWy, for the sick, 279 Tartlets, how to prepare bar- berries for, 209 Tarts, iceing for them, 158 ...pippin, 159 —., prune, 159 ...orange, 159, 160 ...codlin, 159 ...rhubarb, 160 .... nvspberry, with cream, 160 Tea calces, 239 Benton tea cakes, 239 another sort, us bis- cuits, 239 another sort, 259 Teal, to dress, 92 Tench, 12 .. .., to choose, 2 to fry, (like trout,) 12 broth for the sick, 278 Thornback, 11 Tin covers, to clean, 308 Toast, anchovy, two ways, 206 Toast and water, for the sick, 287 Tomata sauce, for hot or cold meats, 116 Tongues and udder, to roast, 41 to pickle for boiling, two ways, 41 stewed, 42 an excellent way of doing them, to eat cold, 42 Transparent pudding, 142 a pickle for them, that will keep for years, 68 Trifle, an excellent one, 189 ...., gooseberry or apple, 189 . —, cake, 189 ...., a froth to set on trifle, which looks and eats well, 195 Tripe, 43 ...., soused, 43 Trout, to fiy, 12 ...., to pot, (like lobsters,) 2fl ...., a-la-Genevoise, 12 Truffles and morels, useful for soups and sauces, 97 how to preserve them in the winter, 178 Tunbridge cakes, 238 Turbot, to choose, 1 to keep, 5 , to boil, 6 pifi, 128 Turkeys, to choose, 70 , to boil, 81 an excellent sauce for them boiled, 113 to roast, 82 pulled, 82 , patties, 161 management of tur- keys in the poultry-yard, 274 Turnip soup, 100 pie, 135 Turtles, little eggs for them, 209350 INDEX. Turtle, 125 force meat for them, Veal patties, 161 u. broth, very nourishing,217 Vegetables, 168 to 178 observations on Ztdder and tongue, to roast, A1 V. Veal, to choose, 24 to keep, 44 leg, 44 knuckle, 44 shoulder, 45 neck,45 , a-la-braise, 46 hreast of, 46 , rolled breast, 46 , to collar a breast, to cat cold, 46 a-la-daube, 47 rolls of either cold meat or fresh, 47 harrico of, 47 a dunelm of cold, 48 minced, 48 potted, 48 , to pot veal with ham, 48 cutlets Maintenon, 49 another way, 49 , other ways, 49 collops, 49 to dress collops quick, 49 scallops of cold veal, 50 fricandeau, 50 a cheaper, but equally good fricandeau, 50 fricandeau, another way, 51 olives, 51 cake, 51 sausages, 51 broth, 97 j grmy, 111 pic, 129 a rich one, 129 and parsley pie, 129 , olive pie, 130 , suet pudding, 116 dressing them, 169 to boil them green, 169; in hard water, 169 how to pre- serve for the winter, 177 soup, 102 another, 103 pie, 134 Venison, to choose, 23 to keep, 29 , to dress, 29 haunch, neck, &c. 30 stewed shoulder, 30 breast, 30 hashed, 30 the old currant-sauce for, 117 pasty, crust for, 154 : , 163 ,to make a pasty of beef or mutton, to eat as well as venison, 164 Verder, or milk-punch, 258 J'inegar, camp, 120 gooseberry, 120 raspberry, 230 raspberry-vinegar wa- ter, 288 shalot, 120 sugar, 120 cucumber, 121 wine, 121 and lemon whey, 288 Vingaret, for cold fowd or meat, 120 w. Wafers, 240 JVainscot, fine oak, to give a gloss to, 304 IVatnuts, to pickle, 182 another way, ISiINDEX. 351 /rash-balls, to make, 295 fVashes, for stucco, 298 JVater cakes, 238 gruel, (two ways of making,) 285 ...souchy, 18 barley, (two ways of making,) 287 ...., an excellent, to preserve the hair from falling off, 296 JVelsh pudding, 150 , rahbit, 206 Whey, 288 , white wine, 288 ...., vinegar and lemon, 288 fVhite, to stain jellies, ices> &c. 201 Whitings, to choose, 2 to dry, like haddocks, 14 fndgeon, to dress, 92 JVild- fov.'l, to roast, 92 sauce for, 113 JVindsor beans, fricasseed, 1*2 Wine, remarks on English wines, 250 a rich and pleasant, 250 ...raspberry, 251 or currant, (two ways of making,) 251 ...., black currant, 251 IVine, ginger, excellent, (two ways of making,) 252 , orange, 252 cowslip, 253 ...., elder, 253 white elder, like Fron- tiniac, 253 , clary, 254 raisin, 254 ....with cyder, 254 without cyder, 255 egg, for the sick, 281 to refine, 249 roll, 199 vinegar, 121 . ..., mulled, (two ways of making,) 283 . ,. , to preserve strawberries, 215 white whey, for the sick, 288 TVoodcoeks, to dress, 93 fVoollen,\a preserve from motb, 300 Yeast, to make, (two ways,) 242 dumplings, 151 Yellow, to stain jellies, &c. 201 Yorkshire cakes, 246 puddings, 160 W. J. Sears, 3, Ivy-knc. Newgate-sfrcot..# « ♦ ‘ a \ * r ♦ V * « I •>^tECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. *ressmark; linding Ref No: liicrofilm No: )ate Particulars h\i Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification Ui ' . -Cl ' Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks