AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER 440 after which the mine is drawn off at intervals whenever the bladder is getting distended. After the first week the patient is allowed to micturate naturally. In cases of intra-peritoneal rupture, the wound in the bladder generally heals up without trouble, if the patient escapes the first risks of shock and sepsis, and the drainage tube may be left out on the third day. In extra-peritoneal ruptures the treatment must follow the ordinary Imes of an open external wound; and if leakage of urine occurs, an Irving's apparatus should be applied and the treatment carried out on lines similar to those for supra-pubic cystotomy (see p. 475). During the first ten days it is well to administer urinary antiseptics, such as boric acid (gr. x), salol (gr. x), urotropine (gr. xv-xx), or cystopurin (gr. x), thrice daily, and the patient should not be allowed to get about for at least three weeks after the operation, otherwise bulging of the scar may occur, especially when a drainage tube has been inserted into the pre-vesical space ; he should wear a weU-fitting abdominal belt for at least six months afterwards. VESICAL FISTULA. A fistulous opening leading to the bladder may occur under various conditions. Thus a fistula may occur in the supra-pubic region after supra-pubic cystotomy or after a perforating wound of the bladder; a fistulous communication may be established between the bladder and the vagina as a result of sloughing after parturition ; or a communication may occur between the bladder and the bowel either from the bursting of an abscess into both viscera, as may happen in appendicitis, or from malignant disease or tuberculosis of either organ. A communication between the bladder and the rectum in the later stages of inoperable cancer of the rectum is fairly common ; tuberculous disease of the prostate may give rise to an abscess which opens into the rectum, the prostatic urethra, and the base of the bladder. When the fistula discharges externally, the diagnosis is readily made by the escape of urine ; if the urine comes from the bladder, the flow is continuous, whereas if the opening is in the urethra, the water only escapes during micturition. Recto-vesical or vesico-vaginal fistulae are also easily diagnosed; in both, the orifice of communication can be inspected through a speculum. When, however, the fistula occurs between the bladder and some part of the intestine higher up than the rectum, the diagnosis is not always easy. When there is a commianication with the small intestine, gas and faecal material will be found in the bladder in comparatively large quantities. If there is any doubt as to the presence of faecal material, a good test is to administer charcoal by the mouth ; its presence will be detected in the urine some hours afterwards. An