ORGANIC STRICTURE 373 are conical instruments increasing three sizes from the tip to the shaft. The tip is bulbous so that, when the point has passed through the stricture, the narrow neck lies loose in the latter and the surgeon can therefore gently manipulate the conical portion through the stricture, and thus dilate it. Of the soft instruments the best are the black olivary bougies (see Fig. 104) which are similar in principle. The solid instruments have the ordinary urethral curve, but, if the stricture is situated in the penile urethra in front of the bulb, it is often easier to use straight instruments graduated in the same manner. By holding the penis vertical and putting the urethra fully on the stretch, straight instruments are more easily manipulated through the stricture than curved ones. No attempt, however, must be made to pass a straight metal instrument farther than the bulb. Intermittent dilatation.—Before describing the steps of this method of treatment, there are a. few points in connection with it which deserve special mention, and the first is that in a case of multiple strictures no attempt should be made to deal with the deeper strictures until the first has been dilated sufficiently freely to enable the in- strument that is to be used for the dilatation of the deeper ones to be passed freely through it. If the anterior stricture grasps the bougie firmly, the surgeon has no control over the point, and attempts to pass it on through a deeper stricture are very likely to end in making a false passage. This is a most important matter in these particular cases because, whereas a false passage is only serious as a rule in so far as it renders it difficult to pass an instrument through the stricture, a false passage between two strictures may gives rise to con- siderable risks. Urine rarely finds its way down a false passage that has been made in front of a stricture, as the false passage runs in the same direction as the urethra, and the urine, after passing through the stricture, finds its way out of the urethra more readily than along the false passage and thus there is no risk of urinary infiltration. If, however, the false passage is situated between two strictures and the stricture in front has not been fully dilated, it causes obstruction to the flow of urine and the latter may therefore find its way along the false passage and lead to urinary infiltration. Another point in dilating a stricture, particularly by the intemrittent method, is not to do too much at one time. Opinions vary much as to the degree to which dilatation should be carried at one sitting, some surgeons holding that it may be carried to a full size, whilst others stop