WANDERING SPLEEN 6i spleen felt for, and its pedicle compressed between the finger and thumb, so as to stop the bleeding. An assistant clears away the blood with sponges, and the lesion in the organ is then examined and further treatment decided upon. If there is merely a rent in the capsule of the spleen, or a small penetrating wound, an attempt may be made to arrest the bleeding by passing deep mattress sutures through the spleen at least an inch from the cut surface on each side, so as to compress the splenic tissue in the same manner as in rupture of the liver (see Chap. II.). A continuous suture is then put into the capsule and, before returning the spleen, an examination is made for any other injury. In the great majority of cases, however, there is a severe contusion or a rupture, and the only treatment is to remove the spleen ; the operation is described on p. 65. The first step is to clamp the pedicle with long pressure-forceps, and then rapidly remove the organ, taking care not to cut the pedicle too close to the forceps. The extravasated blood is then cleared out and the pedicle secured permanently. During or after the operation it will probably be found necessary to administer saline solution intravenously (see Vol. I.). Unless the patient has lost too much blood, recovery is usually quite satisfactory, and during it the superficial glands enlarge and remain hypertrophied. Occasionally, however, the loss of the spleen has led to serious symptoms ; for example, a patient from whom the spleen was removed for injury began, after convalescence, to go downhill with weakness, emaciation, thirst, and drowsiness. She was given extract of sheep's spleen and raw bone-marrow daily, and recovered completely. In another very similar case cod-liver oil and bone-marrow, and, subsequently, arsenic, were administered with good results. PROLAPSE. When there is a large penetrating wound of the abdominal wall over the splenic region the spleen may prolapse, and the question will arise as to the best method of treatment. If the organ has not been injured it should be cleansed and returned into the abdomen, but in most cases it will be damaged and bleeding freely. If the wound in the spleen is slight, it may be closed and the organ returned, but in most cases there will probably be no alternative but to remove the spleen (see p. 65). WANDERING SPLEEN. This condition is not at all uncommon. It occasionally follows injury, but more frequently arises spontaneously, the attaciunents of the spleen becoming unduly stretched ; indeed, the pedicle may be