AFFECTIONS OF THE PENIS 276 from the cut surfaces of the corpora cavernosa a fine catgut drain may be inserted beneath the flap for a day or two. The best dressing is a large boric fomentation as for circumcision (see p. 263) ; the patient is allowed to micturate naturally. One or two points must be carefully attended to in order to obtain a successful result. The first is that the relative positions of the skin and the body of the penis should not be disturbed—that is to say, the skin should not be drawn forwards when the flap is being fashioned, otherwise this will be too short. A second point is that all bleeding points must be arrested before the flap is sutured, otherwise union may fail. The third point is that the orifice of the urethra must be made more than full size so as to allow for subsequent contraction. A flap from the under-surface of the penis is preferable to one from the dorsal surface, as the urine does not pass over the line of union when the patient micturates. The flap operation is far better than the ordinary circular amputation as there is less pain on micturition, healing is more rapid, and there is less contraction about the urethral orifice subsequently. The patient need not be confined to bed for more than two or three days. It is very rarely necessary to pass a bougie, but it should be employed if there is any tendency to contraction of the orifice. Complete extirpation of the penis.—This operation is indicated when the disease is more extensive and definitely encroaches upon the corpora cavernosa. In cases of very extensive disease it is obviously the only possible operation, but in any case, it gives the patient a much better chance of non-recurrence than an amputation in front of the scrotum when the growth has invaded the corpora cavernosa. It is performed as follows : The patient is placed in the lithotomy posi- tion, the parts are shaved and disinfected, and an incision is made through the middle line of the scrotum, splitting it right down to the corpus spongiosum as far back as the bulbous urethra. A full-sized gum-elastic bougie is passed down to the triangular ligament in order to facilitate the recognition and isolation of the urethra in that position. The corpus spongiosum is now divided transversely about an inch and a half in front of the triangular ligament, isolated, and left hanging out of the wound whilst the rest of the operation is proceeded with. The bougie is removed after the urethra has been divided. The incision splitting the scrotum is now carried up around the penis on each side in front of the scrotum, uniting over the dorsum of the organ and being prolonged up to the symphysis pubis over the suspensory ligament of the penis. The incision is gradually deepened, the two halves of the scrotum are drawn aside and the crura exposed to view. The incision along the dorsum is deepened up to the front of the symphysis pubis, the suspensory ligament of the penis is exposed and divided, and the dorsal vessels are secured. The crus penis is then peeled off from the pubic arch on each side, partly with a periosteum-detacher and partly