CAI-CULUS 465 is reached, the tip of the sound being constantly rotated towards the same side. The sound is then passed again to the apex of the bladder, the beak turned to the opposite side, and a similar procedure gone through. The whole of the base of the bladder is thus explored, and the anterior surface may also be examined by depressing the handle and sweeping the beak hrst over one half of that portion and then over the other. Finally, the beak is directed downwards, and the handle is well raised so as to explore the post-prostatic region. The position of the point of the instrument is kno\\n by the mark affixed to the handle. Should the prostate be enlarged, a sound with a much bolder curve should be employed for the examination of the post-prostatic pouch, and that part of the bladder may be rendered more accessible by the introduction of a fmger into the rectum. When the sound strikes the stone, there is a characteristic sharp metallic ring, whilst a foreign body or a new growth gives rise to the sensation of a soft obstacle. A fairly accurate estimate of the size of the stone may be gained by passing the beak of the instrument over it from end to end, and then from side to side. Its consistence and structure can often be told by the characteristic sound on striking it, the sharp ring of the oxalate calculus differing from the dull sound given by the uratic stone, and both of these being quite unlike the soft grating of phosphatic concretions. When a stone has been found and its size estimated, no further examination is necessary before proceeding to remove it. Many difficulties are met with in sounding. Thus a stricture of the lU'ethra may grip the shaft of the sound and prevent its proper manipula- tion, or the stone may be so small as to escape detection among the folds of the bladder. A simple \\a.y of overcoming this difficulty is to intro- duce a Bigelovv's evacuating-tube and to connect it with the ordinary lithotrity evacuating-bottle (see p. 470) ; this will draw small stones either actually into the evacuator, or, if they are too large, they will strike the eye of the catheter with a characteristic metallic ring. The greatest difficulty is met with when the stone is encysted, as only a small surface may be uncovered and, even if the sound should strike it once, it may not do so again. An encysted stone may always be sus- pected if the sound can only be made to strike it in one definite position, and when its beak cannot be made to pass around it. Another difficulty is the presence of phosphatic deposit in the bladder, and this has led more than once to an abortive operation for stone ; the indefiniteness and immobility of the phosphatic mass should prevent a mistake of this kind, but in both these instances cystoscopy should be resorted to before operation is decided upon. Amongst the most important complications of stone in the bladder are cystitis with its sequelae, ascending pyelitis, and pyelonephritis. A stone seldom remains long in the bladder without setting up cystitis, V. H H