450 AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER the nitrate of silver solution into the bladder, and syringe a little boiled water through the catheter before withdrawing it, so as to prevent the silver solution coming in contact with the urethral mucous membrane ; the solution is left in situ for five or ten minutes, and then the bladder is irrigated with boric lotion, and the strong solution washed away. It is well to perform irrigation with the patient in the recumbent position—at any rate, in the early stages. \Vhen he becomes accustomed to the operation, it may be done with advantage in the upright position, as the base of the bladder is thus more thoroughly cleansed. If there is much muco-pus, the bladder may be irrigated with a weak solution of nitrate of silver (gr. j ad iviij), or one containing salicylic acid and biborate of soda (see p. 447), or the salicylic solution may be used first and the nitrate of silver employed afterwards. The latter is either allowed to escape entirely, or, in the Fig. 122.—.Apparatus for Instillation into the Prostatic Urethra. more obstinate cases, half a dram may be left behind. The nitrate of silver solution may be gradually increased in strength. When the scalding and frequency of micturition are excessive, the treatment will closely resemble that for the acute form of the disease (see p. 445), and it may even be necessary to employ continuous drainage. In the rare cases in which these methods fail, or when continuous urethral drainage cannot be borne, it may be necessary to open the bladder; and here it will undoubtedly be better to open the organ above the pubes (see p. 474), as there is not much danger of septic infiltration of the pre-vesical tissues, while at the same time the surgeon has the great advantage that he can inspect the interior of the bladder and may be able to treat some local condition that is keeping up the inflammation; moreover, a perineal opening is apt to increase the sepsis. The bladder is drained until the urine is free from mucus and pus. In the female, the treatment will be exactly similar to that in the male, except that, when continuous catheterisation fails to effect a cure, the urethra should be over-dilated and temporary incontinence of urine established. Should this not bring about a oure, supra-pubic cystotomy must be performed. PERI-VESICAL INFLAMMATION. This may follow extra-peritoneal rupture of the bladder due either to injury or to perforation in connection with grave cystitis. It may