CHAPTER LIV. 555 TUBERCULOSIS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER. The kidney is one of tlie most common seats of genito-urinary tuber- culosis, and the disease may be primary or it may be secondary to tuberculous disease elsewhere. In primary renal tuberculosis, the organisms reach the part through the circulation, and the affection usually begins in the renal cortex, whereas the secondary form is an ascending affection and attacks the renal pelvis in the first instance. It is most common between the ages of twenty and thirty, and seems to be more frequent in women than in men. The affection is generally limited to one kidney in the first instance ; when both sides are aft'ected, the disease is more advanced on one side than on the other. It is pre- disposed to by previous renal disease, such as nephritis or pyelitis, by blows on the loin, and alcoholism. The tubercles are deposited about the bases of the papilke, and spread both towards the capsule and the renal pelvis. The tuberculous masses soften, forming cavities containing cheesy material, which after a time burst and discharge their contents into the pelvis of the kidney and thence down the ureter. When this happens, the mucous membrane of the renal pelvis becomes the seat of tuberculous disease, and may subsequently become dilated. As the disease advances, the kidney becomes progressively disorganised, until linally it consists of a series of cavities containing cheesy material. The affection spreads from the kidney to the ureter, which may become markedly thickened and diminished in calibre from the deposit of tubercles in its walls ; this leads to interference with the outflow of the urine. Phosphatic masses are often deposited on the cheesy material in the renal pelvis and form renal calculi, so that a combination of tuber- culosis with a calculous condition is not infrequent. A mixed infection with the bacillus coli or the pyogenic cocci very frequently supervenes. The capsule becomes thickened and adherent, and peri-nephritis occurs and fixes the kidney—an important point in operating, as the pedicle may become shortened, and the vena cava may lie close beside the kidney and may be injured during nephrectomy.