INJURIES TO THE THORACIC CONTENTS 211 along the fourth left intercostal space about four inches long, commencing half an inch from the sternal margin ; at the outer end a second incision is carried as far down as the seventh rib. A portion of the fifth costal cartilage is removed and the pleura either pushed to the left side, or if it is impossible to avoid opening it, the parietal and visceral layers are sutured together before it is divided so as to prevent the occurrence of pneumo-thorax. A better plan, when it is possible to employ it, is to use differential pressure (see p. 232), in order to avoid post- operative pneumo-thorax. Sauerbruch and Hacker have found that the best pressure to use is 3 mm. Hg ; and after the suture of the heart has been completed, to raise the pressure to 7 or 8 mm. Hg, whilst the pleura (which may under these circumstances be deliberately opened) and the chest wall are being closed The clot is turned out and the heart is thoroughly exposed. There appears to be no special difficulty or danger in exposing and suturing the heart, the chief point of importance being the extent of the wound in it. The sutures should be of fine catgut, and should pass fairly deeply tlirough the substance of the ventricle without taking up the endocardium. As soon as the wound in the heart has been sutured, it will probably be advisable to have recourse to stimulants, intravenous infusion, or other measures suitable for the rehef of the shock (see Vol. I. p. 118). The pericardium is closed, either entirely or after the introduction of a small catgut drain, which may be left out on the second day. Subsequently, the administration of morphine and digitalis may be called for. INJURIES OF THE MEDIASTINUM. These are generally part of very severe injuries and are apt to be followed by immediately fatal h£emorrha.ge. If the patient recovers there may be septic mediastinitis, and drainage will be necessary. PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE LUNGS. These injuries may be caused by stabs, gunshot or penetrating wounds caused by falls on to such things as raihngs. They are important in the hrst place because there is an open wound, and therefore a con- siderable risk of sepsis; in the second place a foreign body may be retained in the chest; in the third place, there may be severe injury to viscera other than those in the chest—the abdominal viscera being often impli- cated in stab and bullet wounds—and careful examination must always be made to find out if such injuries are present. Bullet wounds occur in both civil and military practice. In civil practice they are usually produced by bullets of low velocity, which remain embedded in the lung or the opposite side of the chest, and their