520 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER point just above the iliac crest. The latissimus dorsi is divided, or its muscular fibres separated, throughout the whole length of the wound, and then the incision is carried through the transversahs aponeurosis parallel to the margin of the erector spinse, and the peri-renal space is at once exposed. The deeper parts of the incision need not be opened up to the same extent as the skin-wound, as it is possible to bring out the kidney through a comparatively smaU opening in the abdominal wall if the retraction is efficient. After the transversahs aponeurosis has been divided, the fatty capsule of the kidney, enclosed in the peri-nephric fascia, usually bulges through the opening. The peri-nephric fascia is then picked up in two "pairs of forceps and opened, when the canary-coloured fat around the kidney at once becomes evident. As much of the peri-nephric fat is stripped off the true kidney capsule as possible, so that eventually no fat intervenes between the surface of the kidney and the lumbar wall, when the two are brought in contact by sutures. In a healthy kidney, the detachment of the peri-nephric fat is quite easy. The organ should always be pulled well out of the wound not merely to see that its posterior surface is thoroughly cleared and to determine the most suitable spot for the insertion of the stitches, but also to enable the surgeon to examine the kidney and the ureter in order to make sure that no other trouble is present and that there is no kink, stricture, or faulty attachment of the ureter to the pelvis of the kidney. In protruding a movable kidney, care must be taken not to twist the renal pedicle upon itself and not to mistake the upper end for the lower when returning the organ into position in the loin. Up to this point, all the operations for posterior nephropexy practically agree, the points of dissimilarity in the operation concerning mainly the measures taken subsequently to fix the kidney in place. The controversy as to whether the true capsule of the kidney should be partially stripped off and the bared renal substance brought into contact with the lumbar wall (decapsulation), or whether sufficient adhesion can be obtained without the kidney being decapsulated, does not appear to be finally settled as yet, although in the majority of operations practised at the present time, some form of decapsulation is the rule. Firm adhesion may, however, occur between the bared fibrous capsule and the lumbar wall, and we have had satisfactory results with both methods. Another point in which the technique varies is in the method of attaching the kidney to the abdominal wall. In all cases, sutures are employed, and in the majority these are carried through the substance of the muscles and tied subcutaneously, rather than through the transversahs aponeurosis alone. This plan makes it easier to pull up the kidney sufficiently high ; if the organ is merely sutured to the transversahs aponeurosis it is difficult to work under the ribs and therefore it will probably be fastened unduly low down. Various materials are employed for fastening the kidney, some