SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE KIDNEY 553 to a pyonephrosis, a tube should be passed behind tlie kidney in addition to the one into the pelvis. After-ireatment. — The dressings should be frequently renewed, because urine, as well as pus, will escape through the loin. If the cause of obstruction has been removed and there is no obstruction in the ureter, rapid improvement generally follows, the urine escaping partly through the loin and partly into the bladder, and the amount escaping from the loin will gradually diminish. As scon as urine passes freely into the bladder and the amount of pus diminishes, the drainage tube may be shortened, but even in favourable cases it will be three or four weeks before this can be done, and after that a renal fistula may remain for several months. Should healing not have occurred at the end of six months, the case must be looked upon as one of permanent renal fistula, and treated accordingly (see Chap. LV.). The patient should be kept in bed for the first six or eight weeks, but at the end of that time, he maybe allowed to get up, wearing a lumbar urinal, if the temperature has fallen and the general condition has improved. It will be necessary to use a drainage tube passing into the peri-nephric tissues, in order to keep the external opening patent until the deeper part of the wound closes. Nephrectomy.—Sometimes it is obviously hopeless to expect nephro- tomy and drainage to effect a cure, and a primary nephrectomy will then be called for. This will be necessary, for example, when there is a cicatricial stricture of the ureter which cannot be overcome, so that nephrotomy and drainage would certainly end in a permanent renal fistula. Moreover, the kidney may be so disorganised that little secreting substance is left and the organ is useless. When this is the case, and there is reason to believe that the other kidney is healthy, primary nephrectomy is indicated. The proper treatment, however, in the majority of cases—in the first instance, at any rate—is nephrotomy and drainage ; this has the advantage that, even should nephrectomy become necessary, the condition of the other kidney may be inferred from the character of the urine passing through the bladder, as the secretion from the affected kidney will probably all pass through the loin in the first instance, and the two may thus be differentiated. Should the opposite kidney be markedly affected also, the patient must put up with a permanent renal fistula. The operation for removal of the kidney in these cases is very similar to lumbar nephrectomy for renal calculus (see Chap. LV.). A secondary nephrectomy is much more difficult than a primary one, as there will be adhesions to surrounding parts. Great difficulty may be met with in dealing with the renal pedicle on account of its shrinkage and the presence of adhesions. The ureter should be isolated separately, and the lower end brought out into the lower angle of the wound, the cut surface swabbed with undiluted carbolic acid, and either stitched