321 VARICOCELE TREATMENT.—Palliative—When the patient does not suffer great inconvenience, or when he has no wish to enter one of the public services or to live in a tropical climate, only palliative measures are necessary in most cases ; these chiefly consist in supporting the testis with a well-fitting suspensory bandage, regulating the bowels in order to prevent accumulation in the sigmoid flexure, and bracing up the parts by the employment of cold douches every morning. The patient should be reassured as to the improbability of damage occurring to the generative function of the testis. Operative.—When an operation is desired, a complete cure as far as the veins are concerned can be effected by a simple operation, which is unaccompanied by risk if it is done aseptically. The operation we prefer is done as follows : The parts are shaved and disinfected, and an incision about an inch long is made over the cord immediately below the external abdominal ring, the veins and the other structures of the cord being rendered prominent by grasping and making the skin tense over them. As soon as the fascia covering the cord is reached, the finger is introduced, and the whole of the cord can be pulled out of the small wound and exposed with very little trouble. The cord is then cleared from the external ring right down to the testis with a few touches of a blunt dissector, and the next point is to isolate the vas from the other structures of the cord. The spermatic artery and nerve go with the vas, and it is usually well to leave one or two small veins in connection with this structure. The whole of the remaining mass of veins is then isolated : first, above where the veins converge and join up into a few large trunks and where therefore the separation is easiest, and then downwards as far as may be desired. The whole of this mass is then ligatured in two places, and the intervening portion is excised. The distance at which the ligatures are placed apart—the length of the portion of veins excised—will be determined by the degree to which the testicle is pendulous ; in most cases about an inch is quite sufficient. The simplest way of determining the amount is to tie the lower ligature first, just above the epididymis, and then, holding the upper part of the cord firmly in position, to make traction upon this ligature so as to pull up the testis and see how much shortening is required. In removing the mass of veins a good quarter of an inch should be left beyond the ligature in order that the latter may not slip off. The ends of the ligatures are left long, and tied together, so as to bring the two divided ends of the cord into apposition, and then cut short. By this plan the chief veins are removed, and the testis is braced up and secured in position. Finally, all bleeding points are tied, the wound is sutured, and healing is complete in a few days ; afterwards, the patient should wear a sus- pensory bandage for a few weeks, when he may be considered permanently cured. V. Y