TUBERCULOSIS 557 that due to a renal growth, which is generally profuse. Important information may be gained by the help of the cystoscope. Thus the ureter on the affected side may be swollen and prominent and the pus may be seen coming from it. Also there may be a few tubercles seen in the bladder in the region of the ureter. Occasionally, the ureteral papilla is converted into a deep conical cavity, apparently from drawing up of the papilla by traction on the ureter. Important points which have to be investigated before deciding upon treatment are which kidney is affected and whether the other kidney is healthy ; these questions are discussed in Chap. L. TRBATMEISTT.—This may be either non-operative or operative. (a) Non-operative.—This is mainly the ordinary treatment of tuber- culosis (see Vol. I. p. 231). Among drugs, creosote (15 to 20 minims, three times a day) and iodoform (in one-grain pills), are most useful. Tuberculin may also be employed. (b) Operative.—From the earliest period the question of operative interference must be considered. If time is lost, the bladder or the other kidney may become affected. The surgical procedures available are the following :— Nephrotomy followed by drainage of the pelvis of the kidney, with removal of as much of the tuberculous material as possible. This may be the only method adopted or it may be a preliminary to a secondary nephrectomy. Partial nephrectomy, in which only the diseased portion of the kidney is removed. Complete nephrectomy, accompanied by removal of as much of the ureter as is diseased. The choice between these procedures will be influenced by the condition of the other kidney, the bladder, and the patient. Nephrotomy.—Nephrotomy is indicated when the patient is so ill that something must be done, but is so weak that nephrectomy is out of the question ; when the other kidney is so extensively affected, that the removal of even a small amount of secreting kidney tissue is not justifiable ; or when there is marked vesical tuberculosis, for here the symptoms will not be materially relieved by nephrectomy, and, moreover, the other kidney will almost inevitably become affected before long. Another indication is the coexistence of a peri-renal abscess with the disease in the kidney. The operation is performed in the manner described on p. 519. The caseous material is scraped away with a flushing-spoon and a large drainage tube is introduced. Considerable improvement may follow this procedure and, when the patient's condition has improved, nephrectomy may be performed'—provided that the kidney operated upon is the sole seat of disease. Simple nephrotomy practically never leads to a cure, nor can it be depended upon to prevent the spread of