6o4 OPERATIONS UPON THE FEMALE GENITALS When the tumour is partly submucous, the uterine cavity may be opened. This will not interfere with the recovery of the patient, provided the uterine walls are accurately sutured afterwards. During pregnancy, the uterine walls are very soft and vascular ; the sutures must be inserted therefore with great care and not pulled too tight. Mattress sutures are the most useful. SUSPENSION OF THE UTERUS. In the course of an abdominal section, it maybe found that the uterus is badly retroverted or that there is marked tendency to prolapse, and the surgeon should be prepared to deal with this condition. A great variety of procedures are adopted, but perhaps the simplest is Gillian's operation, which adds little to the severity of the operation and may therefore be carried out at the same time. It consists in bringing the round ligaments forward through small separate incisions in the abdominal wall about an inch on each side of the middle line and fixing them so as to suspend the uterus in its proper position. The round ligaments are seized about i| inches from the uterus and brought out through small incisions about an inch on each side of the vertical incision in the abdominal and at a suitable level, so that a loop of the ligament lies on the abdominal wall in front of the anterior sheath of the rectus muscle. It is then stitched to the surface of that structure so as to bring about adhesion. The above are the main operations on the female genital organs which the surgeon may have to perform unexpectedly in the course of an abdominal section, and which he must be prepared to carry out at once. Had space permitted, we would have gone more fully into the various conditions of the female genital organs which require laparotomy, because we are strongly of opinion that the operation should only be performed by a surgeon who is prepared to deal with any abdominal con- dition that may be met with, and that no one should open the abdomen who is only able to treat some special organ. The various other pro- cedures—such as hysterectomy for cancer of the uterus—are usually diagnosed before operation is undertaken, and the surgeon can therefore carefully plan out his procedure beforehand.