CxONOCOCCAL URETHRITIS 359 urethra ; this is most often seen in the fossa navicularis, while sometimes it is met with as a small fissure about three inches down the penile portion. Evidences of inflammation may also be found about the orifices of Littre's glands. In the normal urethra these are barely visible depressions; in the subject of gleet, however, they may form livid areas the size of a pin's head, usually in groups. Occasionally they exude pus, or there may be a distinct swelling caused by the bulging of a distended gland. Another condition that careful urethroscopic examination, especially with the inflating apparatus [vide infra), may reveal, is the existence of sub- mucous induration, wiiich shows itself as a series of rigid bands standing out in relief when the urethra is distended ; these bands are probably the forerunners of true stricture, although at the time that they are first discovered the actual narrowing of the urethra may be very slight. In other cases the persistence of the discharge is due to the extension of the disease to the follicles of the prostate leading to hypersecretion, or to the vesiculse seminales setting up a chronic vesiculitis which is a most obstinate condition. In the latter case, some semi-purulent material may be obtained in addition to the gleety discharge, if the vesiculas are firmly pressed or massaged. TREIATMBNT.—The treatment of this stage must be almost exclusively local; when the disease has become really chronic, drugs have little or no effect upon it. Any article of diet or any form of exercise that is found definitely to increase the discharge must naturally be avoided, and also sexual intercourse or excitement. Alcohol should be taken very sparingly, if at all, and in any case champagne, beer, and heavy wines should be interdicted. Drugs by the mouth are of little value ; the patient commonly doses himself with sandal-oil, but this practically never influences the urethral discharge at all, while it may upset the digestion and make the patient very miserable. Irrigation.—This is an extremely valuable method of treatment ; it is carried out in the manner described on p. 355. Like all methods of treating gleet, however, it is apt to fail, and in any case will probably have to be continued for a considerable time. Urethroscopy.—Treatment of localised affected areas through the urethroscope is often of great value. With this instrument—a good form of which is shown in Fig. 95—the urethra can be examined minutely from end to end, and any diseased area can be directly illuminated, its surface cleaned and examined, and even the strongest drugs can be applied to it without risk to the surrounding healthy mucous membrane. The urethroscope is used as follows : A tube of the largest size that the meatus will hold is disinfected by boiling, warmed, lubricated, and passed down into the membranous portion of the urethra ; very little useful information can be gained by inspection through too small a tube.