207 INJURIES TO THE THORACIC CONTENTS INJURIES TO THE PLEURA AND LUNG. These are the commonest visceral lesions in severe contusions of the chest ; the air does not escape sufficiently quickly from the lung when the compressing force is apphed, and consequently its tissue is torn. This is most likely to happen when the lung is full of air and the glottis is firmly closed at the time the injury is received. Extensive damage may be done to the lung without any sign of external injury or fracture of the ribs. The actual injury varies considerably. In slight cases only a few air-cells or blood-vessels may be ruptured ; the visceral layer of the pleura may remain intact and blood may be extravasated into the lung tissue, a certain amount finding its way into the bronchial tubes and so becoming expectorated. In these cases there is merely some slight pain and cough; and the patient expectorates blood-stained mucus. In more severe cases; however, the lung substance may be torn to a considerable extent and the pleura ruptured over it, and then blood and air will escape into the pleural cavity and a pneumo-hsemo-thorax will result. The bleeding will probably be profuse when the rupture is extensive, and the amount of air present will then be of secondary importance. There will be dullness over a large area of the pleural cavity and over the seat of injury; in the latter situation there will be crepitations. Haemoptysis also occurs. The prognosis depends entirely on the extent of the injury. When this is comparatively slight and there is no serious pneumo- or haemo- thorax, recovery is usually rapid, except in feeble or elderly subjects in whom the injury may form the starting-point of pneumonia. When, however, there is extensive damage, accompanied by extreme shock, profuse hemoptysis and immobility of the affected side, the risk is very serious not only from the immediate effects of the injury, but also from the risk of infection of the extravasated material which may arise when the larger air-passages are opened up. It would appear that infection does not occur when the terminal branches of the bronchi alone are in communication with the extravasated blood, as the bacteria are apparently filtered out of the air by the time it reaches that part of the lung. TREATMENT.—Of uncomplicated cases.—The patient should be put to bed and, after recovering from the shock, should be propped up in the semi-recumbent position, with a large ice-bag or Leiter's tubes apphed to the affected side of the chest. If the dyspnoea is considerable, a hypodermic injection of morphine will relieve it, and under this treatment most of the mild cases will recover. The patient should not be allowed to get up until all the physical signs have disappeared from the chest. OJ complicated cases.—The most serious cases are those in which air or blood is present in the pleural cavity.