PERl-NEPHRIC INFLAMMATION 545 Of the other two varieties of peri-nephric abscess, it is more common for the abscess to originate in connection with pyehtis or pyelonephrosis, with or without perforation of the kidney substance. Here there are symptoms of kidney trouble, such as heematuria or pyuria, in addition to the signs of peri-nephric sup-puration. The symptoms vary according to whether or not suppuration has occurred. Peri-nephric inliammation is accompanied by a peculiar flexion of the spine which is bent somewhat antero-posteriorly, and inclined to the affected side. The patient experiences pain in walking or stooping, and at the same time the thigh on the affected side is drawn up, and movement causes pain. The temperature is high—103° to 104° F.—and there is generally intense, deep-seated tenderness in the loin, most marked above the crest of the ilium, and just outside the erector spinse muscle. When suppuration has actually set in, rigors frequently occur, the pain increases, and there is cedema of the cellular tissue in the flanks with firm contraction of the loin muscles ; a fluctuating tumour presently appears, and the pus may make its way through the fascia into the sub- cutaneous tissue of the loin. Fluctuation is more easily elicited by examination under anaesthesia, with one hand on the front of the abdomen and the other in the loin. It is seldom, however, that the case is allowed to go on until fluctuation can be distinctly made out ; the presence of pus will be inferred from the length of time the inflammation has lasted, the character of the temperature, and the information afforded by a blood- count (see Vol. I. p. 495). Unless the peri-nephric inflammation be secondary to suppuration in the kidney, examination of the urine does not help the diagnosis. Some information as to the site of the abscess may occasionally be gained by noting the character of the pain. When the abscess occurs about the upper part of the kidney, the pain is usually of a pleuritic character. When the suppuration is opposite the centre of the organ, the pain is referred along the ilio-hypogastric and ilio- inguinal nerves, and is felt in the groin and scrotum, and this may distract attention from the actual seat of the inflammation ; when the abscess originates about the lower end of the kidney, the pain is mainly referred to the hip and thigh, along the external cutaneous, anterior crural, and obturator nerves, and may be present on the inner side of the knee. If left alone, the abscess spreads in directions varying according to the situation in which it originates. An abscess in the upper part of the peri-nephric space spreads forwards, and gives rise to a subphrenic abscess or an empyema. When in the lower part, it spreads downwards to the iUac fossa, and may point in the neighbourhood of Poupart's Hgament. When pus forms about the centre of the renal area, it tends to spread directly backwards and point in the loin. The pus contained in the abscess has often a ffecal odour, although there may be no com- munication with the bowel, and it is not uncommon to find the bacillus coli present in large numbers, V. N N