189 CARCINOMA downwards and supported on a pillow. The patient frequently likes the position of the hand to be changed occasionally. It is very rare that a carcinoma of the breast can be satisfactorily treated by a less drastic operation than the one we have just described. Some surgeons leave the pectoralis major, removing merely the fascia over it with a thin layer of muscle. This, however, renders the clearing out of the apex of the axilla more difficult and the removal of the costo-coracoid membrane impossible. Some surgeons also recommend the removal of the pectoralis minor muscle in all cases; but this is often unnecessary as it can be readily pulled out of the way so as to allow the parts behind it to be thoroughly cleared. If, however, there is marked glandular infection in that part of the axilla, it is well to take it away, after the fat and glands have been peeled down from the upper part of the axilla and the costo-coracoid membrane removed. The fibres of origin of the muscle from the ribs are fii'st detached and then it is divided above at its insertion into the coracoid process. Another point to be considered is the advisability of clearing out the posterior triangle of the neck when the breast has been removed. Probably increasing experience will lead surgeons to do this more often than they do now. If there is any enlargment of the glands in this region it is better to clear out the space at the first operation, for, although this prolongs the operation somewhat, it is not possible at a second operation to remove the lymphatic vessels between the neck and the axilla with the same ease and certainty. If the infection of this region is extensive the question of the operability of the case will have to be considered, for, as in carcinoma elsewhere, an incomplete operation frequently does more harm than good. It is in the cases in which there is no visible infection of the glands that the surgeon must decide this matter, and the conclusion to which we have come is that when there is distinct enlargement of the glands at the upper part of the axilla, it is well to open up the posterior triangle of the neck and to clear out all the fat and glands behind and beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle. This is best done by a separate incision just above and parallel to the clavicle. Aftev-treatmoit.—There may be a considerable amount of oozing of blood and serum in the first few hours after the operation, which may come through the dressing, but provided that this contains a reserve of antiseptic, e.g. cyanide gauze, there is no need to disturb the patient by changing the dressing until next day. If, however, blood comes through, the bandage and wool should be soaked with i in 20 carbolic lotion and fresh gauze and wool applied outside. For the next two or three days the wound should be dressed daily, and if at the end of the third or fourth day it is found that only a little blood-stained serum is coming away the tube can be left out. If the wound is aseptic no further drainage is necessary ; the practice of pushing strips of gauze into the