TUBERCULOSIS 169 pectoral fascia by raising it along with the layer of loose tissue which separates the breast and fascia. The skin is dissected off the superficial aspect of the breast, taking care not to damage the nipple. It will of course be necessary to sever the ducts passing to that structure. It is essential to remove the whole of the breast and not to leave behind any of the outlying portion. In thin women the operation is compara- tively easy, but in stout women it is difficult, and there may be a good deal of bleeding. All hsemorrhage must be carefully arrested, and it is advisable to introduce a drainage tube for twenty-four or thirty-six hours, as there may be a considerable escape of serous fluid into the wound. The advantages of this method of operating are that the nipple is left and the scar is not obvious. It often happens, however, that the skin becomes puckered and an unsightly folded area of skin remains after this operation, and in many cases, therefore—especially in stout people—it is preferable to remove the breast by an incision over its centre enclosing the nipple. The patient should always be asked before the operation is undertaken if she has any objection to the loss of the nipple. MULTIPLE CYSTIC DISEASE. Chronic lobular mastitis commonly ends in this condition. Sometimes limited inflammation of the lobule appears to lead to the formation of a fibro-adenoma. On examining a lobule which is the seat of mastitis the chief change in the early period is in the inter-acinous connective tissue, which undergoes marked proliferation. This may lead to atrophy of the epithelium, but proliferation of the epithelium of the acini not uncommonly takes place, and the latter becomes enlarged, and microscopic cysts are formed. The great majority of these remain quite small, but one or two may attain a considerable size. TREATMENT.—The question of excision of the breast arises in these cases and, as we have said, some surgeons strongly advise complete removal of the organ. There is, however, no definite proof that cancer develops from this condition, and, unless severe pain or discomfort is present, the procedure seems to us to be too severe. Any cysts of considerable size may be tapped and injected (see p. 174) or any markedly affected or painful portion of the breast may be excised. TUBERCULOSIS. This condition is not imcommon, and a good many cases of chronic mastitis—especially those ending in suppuration—are really tuberculous in nature. The disease commences around the acini and may form a patch of chronic mastitis of considerable size ; in other cases several