INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 3 intestinal obstruction—at any rate, in the early stages—and the correct diagnosis is often not made until the abdomen has been opened. The disease sets in with sudden acute pain in the epigastrium, accompanied by profound collapse and, very soon, by severe vomiting. The vomiting, although generally very severe and painful, does not become fieculent; there is often jaundice, and a characteristic feature is that the patient may become intensely cyanosed. There is a variable amount of constipation, and tympanites soon occurs in the upper part of the abdo- men. The abdomen is very tender above the uml^ilicus and the recti are very rigid and prevent palpation of the pancreas. Death usually occurs within five days and is often preceded by delirium. The affection has many symptoms in common with acute intestinal obstruction, perforation of the stomach or duodenum, septic cholecystitis, and gangrenous appendicitis ; all these conditions demand immediate laparotomy, and therefore it is not necessary to lose time in making an exact diagnosis. When the abdomen is opened, the presence of fat necrosis, which is a very frequent accompaniment of the disease, may make the nature of the condition evident. In this condition the normal fat is split up by the fat-splitting ferment of the pancreas into glycerine and fatty acids ; the glycerine is absorbed, while the fatty acids remain in the fat cells, and, combining with calcium salts, give rise to the yellowish-white patches so characteristic of this affection. As a rule the change takes place in the fatty structures in the immediate vicinity of the pancreas, but occasion- ally it occurs at a considerable distance from it, e.g. in the pericardium. This condition is generally, though not invariably, present in cases of haemorrhagic pancreatitis, less frequently in the gangrenous form, and only comparatively rarely in the suppurative variety ; further, it is not confined to cases in which pancreatitis is present. Acute haemorrhagic Pancreatitis.—This is the variety of acute pancreatitis most frequently met with in practice, but the exact significance of the hfemorrhage is not apparent. By some it is thought to be due to the violence of the septic infection, by others it is looked upon as the primary condition, the sepsis being secondary to it. Gangrenous Pancreatitis.—This condition very closely resembles that just described, but haemorrhage is absent, there is less fat necrosis and the pancreas is found to be actually gangrenous at the time of operation, or becomes so subsequently. Acute suppuration may occur either in or around the organ, and may result in a localised abscess, or disseminated abscesses, or may occur as a diffuse infiltration of the pancreatic tissues with pus. When there are a number of abscesses the affection is generally pytemic, and tlie true diagnosis will probably not be made, or if made, cannot lead to any successful result. The only suppurative condition for wliich surgical intervention offers anv hope is that of circumscribed abscess in or B 2