GONOCOCCAL URETHRITIS 357 to find, after all discharge has ceased, that if they pass urine into a glass the first portion contains a number of thread-like filaments ; these should be examined for gonococci, but, whether the latter are found or not, the presence of flakes impHes that the disease is not cured. Of course if gonococci are found, the discharge must be looked upon as infective, and even the absence of these organisms must not be taken to imply a perfect cure except after repeated examinations extending over a prolonged period—three to six months. It is not uncommon to find that when a patient, who has ceased to have any discharge, leaves off the treatment, the discharge comes back two or three days afterwards, or he takes alcohol and gets a recurrence. In these cases the treatment must be resumed. Of complications.—Most of the complications of gonorrhosa already referred to are described elsewhere. Peri-nrethral abscess is not an infrequent complication, and the abscess may burst into the urethra or through the skin or in both direc- tions. A urinary fistula may usually be avoided if the abscess is opened externally directly its presence is detected. When it opens spontaneously both into the urethra and through the skin, a urinary fistula results ; when it opens first into the urethra it may lead to extravasation of urine. This matter is dealt with more fully in Chap. XXXVI. Inflammation of Cowper's glands is not uncommon in gonorrhoea and generally occurs about the third or fourth week of the disease. There is much pain and a feeling of tension in the perineum, the pain being aggra- vated on sitting or walking. On examination, a small ovoid tumour will be felt on either side of the middle line ; it is said that the left gland is more frequently affected than the right. The swelling may gradually disappear under rest and the ordinary treatment for inflammation, but suppuration often takes place either in the gland itself or in the sur- rounding tissues. If an abscess occurs in the gland itself, the pus may find its way along the duct into the urethra and the duct becomes dilated ; urine may then pass back into the cavity, leading to a urinary abscess and, later, urinary infiltration, or the abscess may rupture externally and a perineal urinary fistula may result. In other cases suppuration occurs outside the gland and the pus finds its way towards the perineum, when incision of the abscess will put an end to the trouble. Occasionally the inflammation becomes chronic and the glands remain large and hard for a considerable time. The treatment should be that for acute inflammation in the early stages, with incision of the abscess if suppuration occurs, or excision of the gland should it be evident that suppuration is not occurring, seeing that resolution is not likely to take place for a long time.