73 TORTICOLLIS the pleura is opened, air passes into the pleural cavity, the lung collapses, and the breathing becomes embarrassed for a time ; this usually passes off quickly however, especially if stimulants and oxygen are employed. The opening in the pleura should be closed by sutures and the air in the pleural cavity is rapidly absorbed. A good many surgeons do not remove the periosteum and only advise operation when paralytic symptoms are present, because recurrence of the pain is so apt to take place; this is probably due to the fact that the periosteum has not been removed. Posterior operation.—The rib may also be readily reached from behind with much less disturbance of the parts and less risk of injury to nerves than in the anterior operation.i The following is Bankart's description of the operation ; in his case the cervical rib was apparently not attached to the first rib : An incision about four inches long is made parallel to and about an inch from the spinous processes with its centre opposite the seventh cervical vertebra. The trapezius is divided in tlie same line and drawn outwards so as to expose the deep muscles at the back of the neck. The outer margin of the spinal muscles leads directly to the transverse processes and to the cervical rib at its origin from the seventh cervical vertebra. The rib is divided close to the vertebra, and at once becomes movable and can be readily dissected out from the soft parts. The trapezius is then stitched up with catgut. TORTICOLLIS. By torticollis or ' wryneck ' is meant an affection in which the sterno-mastoid muscle (and sometimes the other muscles of the neck secondarily) undergoes contraction and produces a marked and charac- teristic deformity. Usually the affection is limited to one side ; but in some instances both sides are affected, in which case however the deformity is different, the head being tilted strongly backwards. The condition may be congenital or acquired ; the latter may also be spasmodic. ACQUIRED TORTICOLLIS. Temporary contraction of one sterno-mastoid is not uncommon: for instance, in the condition generally spoken of as ' stiff-neck,' which is presumably a rheumatic inflammation of the sheath of the muscle which commonly arises after exposure to cold, and gives rise to a temporary contraction of one or both sterno-mastoids with characteristic deformity. LTnder suitable treatment this condition passes off in a few days and leaves no ill-effects. ' A. S. Bankart, Lancet, 1913, voL i. p. 962.