369 ORGANIC STRICTURE portions of the urethra slioiild be borne in mind. Thus, if the organ is held vertical, the bougie must first pass directly downwards for about six inches, until it reaches the commencement of the membranous urethra ; this portion runs almost horizontally for about three-quarters of an inch, and then the prostatic urethra curves forwards and upwards for about an inch and a quarter before the bladder is reached. The mistake usually made is that the point of the instrument is not passed far enough down into the bulbous urethra, and the handle is prematurely depressed, so that its point is thrown up against the urethral roof just in front of the entrance to the membranous urethra, and if force is used may perforate the wall at that part and thus make a ' false passage ' (see Fig. 98). There are three ways in which a catheter may be passed, {a) In the first plan (see Fig. 99) the instrument is held parallel to the long axis b Fig. 100.—^The ' Demi-tour de MAixRE.' The dotted line shows the passage of the head of the bougie from the position, a to 6 ; when it reaches b, it is raised to the vertical, as in the previous figure. of the body, its handle lying almost flat on the abdominal wall. The penis is held erect, the tip of the instrument is passed down the urethra until the bulb is reached, and then the handle is gradually raised to the vertical so as to engage the point of the instrument well in the membranous urethra. The handle is finally depressed between the thighs, and the point is made to pass upwards and forwards through the prostatic urethra into the bladder. {b) Another plan (see Fig. loo) is to hold the instrument horizontally at right angles to the long axis of the body, and pass the point down the urethra until it reaches the bulb. The handle is then rotated through a quarter of a circle until the shaft lies in the middle line, the handle being also slightly raised at the same time so that it does not actually touch the abdomen. This latter manoeuvre is important ; without it the point of the instmment is apt to be somewhat withdrawn during the rotation,