21 ABSCESS connection with gall-stones, the primary affection then being suppuration in the gall-bladder or common bile-duct ; this is dealt with separately (see Chap. IV.). These abscesses are due either to the ordinary pyogenic organisms or to the colon bacillus. Abscesses due to the above causes may also occur in tropical countries, but in addition there is a form known as ' tropical abscess of the liver,' which is an affection met with from the 48th degree of north latitude southwards, increasing in frequency farther south ; it occurs sporadically, however, somewhat farther north than this. In this geogi'aphical area acute and sub-acute hepatitis are common, and the inflammation of the liver may end in tropical abscess. The disease is essentially associated with true tropical dysentery, although it may come on a considerable time after the dysenteric attack has passed off, and even after all ulceration has healed. It is now held that true tropical dysentery is due to an amoeba, and this parasite has been found in large numbers in the wall of tropical abscesses, if not actually in the pus. The ordinary pyogenic and other kinds of organisms may be present in addition, and the etiology of these abscesses may, therefore, be very complicated. The course of the affection is modified by the other organisms which find entrance simultaneously with, or subsequently to, the amoebje. It is probable that the amoebae, when present alone, produce a slow breaking down of the liver without acute suppuration, whereas those cases marked by acute inflammatory symptoms are probably due to a mixed infection, and the acuteness of the attack is, to a certain extent, proportionate to the severity of the infection by other organisms. Malaria is said by many to play an important part in the causation of the affection, but the abscess is not due to the malarial parasite. By its general effect upon the system and by its local effect upon the liver, malaria may, however, pave the way for the true parasitic invasion which causes tropical abscess. The great majority of tropical abscesses are single. There may, however, be two, three, or more abscesses in the liver ; when a large number is present the case is probably of an embolic nature. In some- thing like two-thirds of the cases the abscess is situated in the right lobe. As a rule it varies in size, when it comes under surgical observation, from an apple to a child's head ; the average size is that of a fairly large orange. The abscess is usually spherical and contains a fluid which is generally tinged with blood and bile, being yellow, greenish-orange, blood-red, or brown in colour ; discoloured clots and portions of broken-down liver substance are often present. In the acuter forms the abscess contains broken-down hepatic tissue and its wall is pulpy ; in the more chronic ones there is a kind of thickened abscess wall. In bad infective cases the wall of the abscess may be gangrenous, and in these cases recovery is rare, even after free drainage. Except in cases of embolic origin, the abscess usually conmiences