288 AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS are therefore undeveloped ; even here the improvement is great, and the attempt should always be made in preference to performing castration. ^ Replacement of the testis within the abdomen.—When it is impossible to bring the testis down into the scrotum, this operation may be per- formed, especially when both testes are undescended and are apparently normally developed and when they are painful. Any hernial sac present is isolated as before, and then the question arises as to whether the testis should be returned within the peritoneal cavity or should be placed in the sub-peritoneal tissues. The latter is the natural position because the organ would have to pass through a slit in the peritoneum if it were returned inside the peritoneal cavity, and the cord might be constricted and the development of the testicle interfered with. The best plan is to separate the peritoneum from the tissues outside it for some distance backwards towards the iliac fossa and to place the testis in the cavity so formed. The opening in the peritoneum is then closed and the operation for radical cure completed in the usual manner, the inguinal canal being completely closed. When only one testicle is undescended it is better to remove it, as it is doubtful whether it will develop in this position, and it may subsequently become inflamed or the seat of a new growth. Castration.—This operation may be called for : (i) In adults when the testis is small, obviously of no value, and accompanied by a hernia. Removal of the testis will greatly facilitate the completeness of the radical cure, as the entire canal can be sewn up without room having to be left for the cord. (2) It may be necessary in young subjects who have suffered from repeated attacks of inflammation, as this is almost certain to prevent development of the testis. (3) It is also called for when gangrene threatens or actually exists—as, for example, after torsion of the cord. (4) It is obviously indicated when the organ is the seat of tuberculous or malignant disease. The early stages of the operation are similar to those just described, but instead of the testicle being preserved, the cord is clamped and divided at the level of the internal ring, and the lower part of it and the testis are removed. The radical cure of the hernia is then completed in the usual manner (see Vol. IV.). Treatment of complications.—We have already discussed the treatment of the hernia with which most of these cases are complicated. In inflammation of the retained organ it is well to wait for the inflammation to subside before proceeding to radical treatment, and then if the attacks have been severe or repeated, casti-ation, followed by complete closure of the inguinal canal, will be the operation chosen. If the in- flammation is very severe the surgeon may deem it advisable to remove the testis without waiting, and, besides, it sometimes happens that a retained testicle is cut down upon under the impression that the case 1 See Med. Society's Transactions, vol. xiii. p. 497.