83 CUT-THROAT at hand, the trachea should be packed firmly above the ordinary tracheo- tomy tube either with a small sponge attached to a silk thread or with a long strip of gauze, one end of which is left hanging well out of the wound, so that it cannot be sucked into the trachea. As an additional precaution, it is well to tie a long silk thread to this end of the packing and secure this to forceps. Attention is next directed to the arrest of the htemorrhage, and what has already been said with reference to wounds not implicating the air-passages applies equally to these cases. Care must be taken that the disinfectant solutions do not run into the trachea. The treatment of the luoimd in the air-passages.—^W^hen tracheotomy has been performed, the original wound of the trachea or larynx may be completely closed after it has been disinfected. When the incision runs through the larynx itself, an examination must be made to see whether the vocal cords have been injured, and if so, the divided structures must be accurately sutured ; the cartilages are then- united by catgut sutures. When the trachea is partially divided, one or two stitches usually suffice to keep the cut ends in apposition ; should the tube be completely divided, three stout stitches, one central and anterior, and one on each side, should be employed ; a few fine stitches between these will complete the apposition. After the opening into the air-passages or the pharynx has been completely shut off, the divided structures in the neck are sutured layer by layer, and the skin wound is closed, a drainage tube being inserted at each angle of the wound, lest the wound should become septic. The Hahn's or Trendelenburg's tube should be removed and an ordinary tracheotomy tube substituted for it ; if packing has been introduced, it should be taken out. When tracheotomy has not been performed, the question of closing the opening into the air-passages will depend largely upon the nature of the injury. Should this be extensive and should the wound be closed in the manner just described, considerable emphysema is likely to occur, and in addition there may be oedema of the glottis or even haemorrhage into the larynx causing considerable embarrassment to respiration ; septic pneumonia is also likely to follow. Hence we strongly recommend that tracheotomy should be done in all cases of cut throat involving the air-passages, and a tracheotomy tube introduced ; if this is done, the wound in the air-passages may be closed without hesitation. The use of the tracheotomy tube is still more important when the superior laryngeal nerve has been wounded, because the resulting anesthesia of the glottis hinders the patient from coughing, and food or septic discharges may- pass into the air-passages and give rise to a very fatal pneumonia. In these cases a Hahn's or Trendelenburg's tube should be used, <3nd should be changed twice daily. The wound is dressed in the usual manner, and at the end of the