542 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETERj entire fistulous orifice is grafted into the bladder, and those in which the fistulous orifice is removed, and a new communication is made between the end of the ureter and the bladder. Grafting of the fistulous orifice bodily into the bladder seems the better procedure, as giving a more extensive area for union, and because a new ureteral orifice has already been established ; thus the chances of contraction and ascending infection are less than when a fresh orifice is made. The fistulous opening into the vagina is surrounded by an incision, which embraces the whole thickness of the vaginal wall, and the flap containing the end of the ureter is freed. This incision is now carried far enough forwards to expose the bladder wall, which is incised at a suitable spot. The edges of the Fig. 148.—Chapui's Method of Uretero-intestinal Anastomosis. The end of the ureter should be cut obliquely. The method is similar to Witzel's gastrostomy. (Moms.) flap containing the end of the ureter are then sutured to the bladder wall by a double row of sutures, and the wound in the vagina is closed. The operations described above can only be employed when the injury in the ureter is close enough to the bladder to allow the two structures to be united without undue traction. Tension not only prevents union by pulling the two structures apart, but diminishes the calibre of the ureter, and thus may produce hydronephrosis. There is also a risk of stenosis and of renal infection from ascending sepsis in every method, but these are not sufficient arguments in favour of nephrectomy as opposed to a plastic operation. The liability to stenosis is diminished by slitting up the end of the ureter before it is united to the bladder, and the risk of the infection of the kidney is not very great if the patient is in good condition and the bladder healthy. Even when pyelitis already exists, it seems better to perform this operation than to resort at once to nephrectomy. The chief trouble after these operations