552 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER the presence of much phosphatic deposit in the tuberculous cavities may be very baffling. One of the most helpful points in the diagnosis of pyonephrosis is the discovery of a cause of obstruction to the outflow of the urine. The lower urinary passages must be examined, and stricture of the urethra, enlargement of the prostate, vesical stone, or a pelvic tumour, must be looked for. The prognosis depends on the cause of the distension and the possi- bility of its removal, and also upon the condition of the opposite kidney. If the latter is healthy and the cause of the distension removable—as, for instance, a stone—the prognosis is good ; if the cause is irremovable or the other kidney affected, it is very grave. TREATMBISTT.—Palliative.—When the condition is not urgent enough to demand immediate operation, or while the exact cause of the mischief and the condition of the opposite kidney are being ascertained, general treatment, such as that already recommended for pyelonephritis, should be employed (see p. 549), and should be persisted in, while at the same time any obstructive condition in the lower urinary passages is being attended to. Of recent years, much comfort has been given to the patient and some considerable benefit secured by washing out the pelvis of the affected kidney by means of the ureteral catheter. This must neces- sarily be a method of treatment that cannot be carried out by many surgeons, but it should be borne in mind. When the condition is due to mischief in the kidney, such as a stone, or when obstructive conditions lower down in the urinary tract have been rectified without improvement in the renal condition, the question of dealing directly with the kidney will arise. Time should not be wasted on palliative measures if they do not produce improvement, especially when there is much pyrexia. Operative-—This takes the form of either simple nephrotomy and drainage, or nephrectomy. The object of the former operation is to drain the abscess and remove the obstructing cause if possible. In most cases the first thing to be done is a nephrotomy, and the question of nephrectomy will only arise under certain circumstances. Nephrotomy.—^The kidney is exposed in the usual manner, as for nephro-lithotomy (see p. 565), isolated, and brought out on the loin, the tissues around are packed off, and the kidney is incised a little behind its convex border ; the finger is then introduced into the pelvis, and if a stone is found it is removed (see Chap. LV.). If no stone is found, a probe is passed down the ureter, and an impacted stone or a stricture searched for and dealt with appropriately. Drainage will be necessary after removal of the obstruction if a fair amount of healthy renal tissue is left. A large tube is fixed in the pelvis of the kidney, the original packing is removed; and fresh gauze is tucked in around the tube. When a peri-nephric abscess is present in addition