AFFECTIONS OF THE SCROTUM 282 TREATMENT.—In the slighter cases it is sufficient to support and compress the scrotum firmly in a lace-up bag-truss. As the thickening advances, the weight of the tumour causes inconvenience, and the scrotum becomes enormously hypertrophied, until it may weigh half a hundredweight or more. Excision of the mass is called for under these circumstances. In excising the hypertrophied mass, it is very important that all the affected part should be removed, while at the same time care must be taken not to damage the penis or the testicles. It is difficult to avoid injury to the penis, which lies buried at the bottom of a deep pit caused by the downward drag of the hypertrophied scrotum. The chief trouble in removing these hypertrophied masses is haemorrhage. This may be temporarily controlled by an elastic ligature kept in position by long pins thrust through the scrotum on each side of the penis from behind forwards about the level of the commencement of the hypertrophy of the skin. The incisions must be planned so as to remove all the diseased area, but if possible enough skin should be left to cover the testicles. At the commencement of the operation it is well to ascertain the position of the penis and to isolate it. When enough skin cannot be left to cover the testicles, Thiersch's grafts may be applied about ten days or a fortnight after the primary operation. LYMPH SCROTUM. In this condition the scrotal lymphatics are varicose, and there are frequently small vesicles on the scrotum discharging a fluid consisting of a mixture of lymph and chyle. The condition seldom requires surgical interference unless inflammation occurs in connection with it. SYPHILIS. Scrotal affections are not uncommon in the first two stages of syphilis. Chancres may occur in the primary stage and the scrotum is a common seat of condylomata in the secondary stage ; many of the ulcers found on the scrotum in secondary syphilis are really ulcerating condylomata. TREATMENT.—This is similar to that of the affection in general (see Vol. I. Chap XL). TUMOURS. Tumours of the scrotum may be simple or malignant ; the most common are sebaceous cysts, which need not be further referred to, and epithelioma, which is not an uncommon affection.