AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 94 in which case it is fairty large and, may occupy only a portion of the enlarged glandular mass—or it may have perforated the fascia, forming a subcutaneous abscess with thinned and reddened skin over it. In some cases the abscess may be limited to one gland. 5. Finally an abscess may have formed and, burst spontaneously or have been opened, and sinuses remain. These sinuses may be numerous or single. They lead down through a hole in the fascia to the remains of the glandular mass, and at the bottom of the sinus there is generally a quantity of cheesy and often calcareous material and broken-down gland tissue that cannot escape. The skin around the orifice of the sinus becomes the seat of a tuberculous ulcer. TREATMENT.—(a) Medical—A good many cases do weU without operation, the enlargement of the glands becoming gradually smaller and ultimately disappearing, or slightly enlarged glands remaining quiescent. The medical treatment consists in placing the patients under the best hygienic conditions, in preventing excessive movement of the part, and in the administration of various remedies. The patients should be sent to the country and live as much in the open air as possible. The fashion is to send them to the seaside, and undoubtedly sea air is most beneficial in many cases ; some patients do better however in an inland situation. The temperature of the place chosen is a point of importance. All decayed teeth must be stopped or removed, and other sources of irritation—such as enlarged tonsils and adenoids or sores on the face— must be dealt with before sending the patient away. The head should be placed at rest as far as possible ; in most cases it suffices to put a mass of cotton-wool round the neck and fix it on with a firm bandage. In active children, however, in whom the glands are enlarging, it is well to mould a piece of poroplastic material to the shoulder, neck, and side and back of the head on the affected side, so as to fix the head. Some surgeons keep their patients in bed or in a spinal carriage, with a moulded splint or collar applied to the head and neck. We think that when such treatment as this is thought desirable, it would probably be better to adopt operative measures at once. The usual drugs employed are cod liver oU and syrup of iodide of iron. Cod liver oil or one of the emulsions on the market may be given in teaspoonful doses two or three times a day during the cold weather, provided it does not upset the digestion ; if it does, it is inadvisable to persevere with it. The food should be as digestible and nourishing as possible, and plenty of fresh milk and cream should be given. Arsenic is valuable in some cases and is given in the form of Fowler's solution commencing with i minim doses and gradually increased. Injections of tuberculin (see Vol. I. p. 522) should be given, commencing with very small doses graduall}^ increased. In some cases tuberculin does good, but its action is slow and it cannot be substituted for operative treatment in cases in which the latter is otherwise desirable. Sometimes