AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 390 the necessary appliances, assistants, and instruments. Moreover, it is frequently found that after a simple aspiration the congestion of the stricture is relieved and the patient can subsequently pass water naturally, especially if he is placed in a hot bath. It is even well to aspirate the bladder (see p. 397) on two or three occasions before proceeding to more severe measures, unless there is some definite reason for preferring to deal radically with the stricture by operation. Cock's operation.—Cock's perineal section, which was originally introduced for the cure of perineal urinary fistulae complicating stricture, but which is also very useful for relieving acute retention caused by a dense and extensive stricture, aims at opening the urethra behind the stricture without touching the latter. As the stricture is always in front of the prostatic urethra, the operation consists in opening the urethra at the apex of the prostate. This is not so difficult an operation as might be thought, for the membranous urethra is so dilated in Fig. iio.—Double-edged Knife and probe-poi.nted Director for Cock's Perineal Section. long-standing tight strictures that it is not easily missed if the knife is kept strictly in the middle line. The operation is performed as follows : The patient is anaesthetised and placed in the lithotomy position with the symphysis pubis, the umbilicus, and the chin in the same straight line. The left forefinger is introduced into the rectum with its palmar surface upwards and its tip pressed firmly against the apex of the prostate. Cock's double-edged knife (see Fig. no) is then thrust into the middle line of the perineum at a point about half an inch in front of the anus and pushed steadily onwards towards the tip of the finger in the rectum, the long axis of the knife being kept horizontal until the finger in the rectum feels that there is nothing between it and the edge except the rectal wall; the sensation of the loss of resistance as the knife divides the triangular ligament is very characteristic. The urethra will then have been opened as it emerges from the apex of the prostate, and if the apex of the gland is also incised, as is frequently the case, it apparently does not matter. The knife is now withdrawn, the left forefinger being kept in position, and the incision in the skin and superficial parts is slightly enlarged upwards and downwards by a sawing movement of the blade as it passes out. A