HYDROCELE 313 set up more inflammation than is desirable, and, indeed, has even led to sloughing of the scrotum. The fluid formerly used for injecting hydroceles was the Edinburgh tincture of iodine, which is stronger than that of the British Pharmaco- pceia, and a dram or more of this was introduced into the sac and left there. This opei'ation is accompanied by considerable pain at the time, and brisk inflammation afterwards, and for this the patient has to lie up. Recently, iodine has been largely abandoned in favour of undiluted carbolic acid, or carbolic acid and glycerine, which is the fluid that we should recommend when this method is chosen. It is probably more efficient than iodine, and its use is not accompanied by the pain that follows injection of the latter fluid. The method is as follows : The skin at the proposed seat of puncture is shaved and disinfected, the patient sits well forward upon the edge of the chair, with the legs apart, and a medium-sized trochar and canula is thrust into the hydrocele. The point chosen for the punctui'e should be at the anterior part of the swelling, rather above the middle, and at a spot free from visible veins ; the skin should be made tense over the tumour by grasping it behind its median transverse plane between the left tliumb and forefinger ; as the thumb and finger are approximated, tlie tumour slips forward, and the skin is pulled backwards and made tense. It is always advisable to make out the position of the testicle beforehand, both by palpation and the translucency test, as in some cases the ordinary position of the testis—namely, at the lower and posterior part of the swelling—is altered, and the organ is situated in front. The canula is held as shown in Fig. 73, the right forefinger being placed three-quarters of an inch from the point of the trochar so as to prevent it from going too deep, and it is introduced by a sharp stabbing thrust. Directly it has reached the interior of the cavity^—as will be ascertained by the cessation of resistance—the point is tilted upwards, the trochar is withdrawn, and the open end of the canula is somewhat depressed and pushed a little farther onwards so as to avoid any risk of its slipping out of the tunica vaginalis. The fluid is drained off as completely as possible, the tunica vaginalis being compressed by the left hand. When all the fluid has escaped, carbolic acid is introduced through the canula—preferably by a syringe which fits the nozzle of the former. .Should the surgeon not happen to have a syringe of this kind at hand, the best plan is to take a hypodermic syringe with a long exploring needle pass the latter down the canula well into the tunica vaginalis, and then inject the fluid. In this way there is no risk of the carbolic acid coming in contact with the skin. The fluid for injection should be the ordinary B.P. liquid carbolic acid. For a small hydrocele I1\xx will suflice, while for a large one the amount may be Vi\x\ or 11\1. In no case should this quantity be exceeded. In feeble and old people the carbolic acid may be mixed with an equal quantity of glycerine.