522 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER through the lumbar wall. One end of the upper silk stitch is threaded into the needle and passed through the transversalis aponeurosis from before backwards as high up as possible, being made to emerge in the subcutaneous tissue just below the last rib ; the other end of the silk is then passed in a similar manner at a suitable distance from the first. In many cases it is better to carry this suture through the lowest inter- costal space, so as to fix the kidney high enough ; this may involve puncture of the pleura, but this does not seem to be of any consequence. When these two ends are tied together, they will pull up and fix the upper end of the kidney. The lower sutures are then carried through the abdominal muscles at a lower level, and when tied will fix the lower end (see Fig. 138). These sutures should not be tied until the kidney has been placed in its proper position and the lumbar muscles united. The assistant keeps the kidney firmly pressed in place, and all the peri-nephric fat pushed away from between the opposing surfaces of the kidney and the transversahs fascia, while a series of mattress sutures are passed through the lumbar muscles on each side of the wound. Before these are tied, the pillow is removed from beneath the loin, and the assistant pulls the kidney well up against the lumbar wall by trac- tion on the renal sutures. By repairing the abdominal wall before the kidney is attached to it, a more satisfactory sur- face is obtained for adhesion. After the stitches uniting the edges of the lumbar muscles have been tied, those holding the kidney are fastened subcutaneously just tight enough to secure the organ in position. The sutures are cut short, and the edges of the skin are united ; no drainage tube need be inserted. If the kidney is to he fixed after decapsulation, the following method answers very well:— After the kidney has been brought up on to the loin, a crucial incision is made just through the capsule on its posterior surface (see Fig. 140, A). This must not pass deeply into the renal cortex otherwise troublesome oozing may occur. The crucial incision divides the capsule on the posterior aspect of the kidney into four triangles, and the apex of each is seized in turn with a pair of forceps, the handle of the knife insinuated beneath it, and the triangular portion of capsule raised from the cortex as far as the borders of the organ (see Fig. 140, B). Sutures of medium- sized catgut are then inserted through these flaps in the manner indicated in Fig. 140, C. By this means a firm hold is obtained, and there is no Fig. 139.—Method of inserting three sutures in the kidney in nephropexy. None of the sutures must encroach upon the renal pelvis.