AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER 476 pubes, and also holds the scrotum out of the way. As a rule, the shaft of the staff should be vertical, although some surgeons prefer to have the handle somewhat depressed towards the abdomen, so that the convexity of its curve projects in the perineum. An incision, an inch and a half long, is made in the middle line of the perineum, extending downwards to about an inch in front of the anus. When the superficial structures have been cut through, the surgeon introduces his left fore- finger into the wound and feels for the groove in the staff as it lies in the membranous urethra. The finger-nail is sunk into this, and the knife is slipped over the nail until its point is engaged in the groove, and the membranous and prostatic urethra are opened by pushing the knife along it ; the latter should be held horizontal throughout. The left forefinger is then slipped out of the groove, but is kept in the wound, serving to press the rectum and soft parts backwards, and the knife is pushed on until the bladder is nearly reached, when it is withdrawn —taking care not to depress the handle in so doing, lest the rectum be damaged. A director is passed along the groove of the staff into the urethra, the staff is withdrawn, and the surgeon passes his finger into the urethra and through the neck of the bladder, which he dilates sufficiently to allow a small pair of forceps or a scoop to be passed. When the blades of the forceps are within the prostatic urethra, the finger is withdrawn and the closed forceps are slipped into the bladder ; the stone is felt for, the blades are opened, and the calculus is seized. As a rule, the rush of urine through the wound when the finger is withdrawn, carries the stone into the neck of the bladder, so that there is no difficulty in seizing it at once. The stone should be grasped in its shortest diameter and, if this is not done at the first attempt, it should be mani- pulated until it lies lengthways, when it is withdrawn by gentle traction downwards and backwards so as to clear the arch of the pubes. If the stone is too large to be extracted in this way, the incision in the prostate may be enlarged by carrying a second incision outwards and downwards in the gland, and thus more room may be obtained. If the incision is kept strictly in the middle line there is no bleeding of any consequence. A stout rubber tube is passed through the perineal wound and tied into the bladder ; oozing is stopped by packing gauze around it for some hours. Aftev-tveatment.—The tube is removed in about four days, and the patient is allowed to pass urine naturally. At first, all the urine comes through the perineal opening, but in about ten days it begins to pass through the penile urethra, and the perineal wound closes in about four weeks. For the after-treatment of a case in which a stricture has been divided, see p. 385. Lateral lithotomy has now fallen into such general disuse that it is not worth while to describe it. Anyone wishing to become familiar with it should refer to text-books on operative surgery.