397 CONGESTIVE STRICTURE are increased rather than diminished by it, and, moreover, in gonorrhoea the gonococci are almost certain to be carried back and deposited in the neighbourhood of the prostate or in the bladder itself, so that acute prostatitis or cystitis may be set up. Hence every effort should be made to relieve the spasm without passing instruments. This is best done by giving a suppository containing half a grain of morphine with a quarter of a grain of extract of belladonna, and placing the patient in a hot bath, in which he should stay until he feels faint ; he should be encouraged to pass water in the bath. The bowels should be cleared out by five grains of calomel. If this fails, the bladder must be relieved by some mechanical means, and we prefer supra-pubic aspiration to the use of a catheter in gonorrhoeal cases. There is no objection to aspiration in these cases because the bladder is distended, so that the peritoneum is lifted well up from the symphysis and there is no risk of puncturing it, while, if a fine aspirating needle is used there is no extravasation of urine into the pre-vesical space. The operation is simple and is done as follows. The parts are shaved and disinfected in the usual manner, and a fine aspirating needle is thrust through a small nick in the skin immediately above the symphysis pubis, and is directed backwards and slightly downwards ; the sudden cessation of resistance will show at once when the needle has reached the bladder, and urine will issue directly. A fine needle should be employed, and it should be provided with an inner tube so as to avoid lacerating the opposite wall of the bladder as the organ empties ; in inserting the needle, it is well to place the forefinger upon it, about an inch from its point, in order to prevent its being thrust in too deeply. The first portion of urine will escape without aspiration, but the last should be withdrawn by attaching the bottle of the aspirator. When the bladder has been emptied, a dram of boric lotion is syringed down the canula to clear it of urine and the canula is withdrawn, a collodion dressing applied to the small puncture, the patient put back to bed with hot fomentations to the perineum and hypogastrium, and a morphine and belladonna suppository administered. The congestion will often pass oft' in a few hours, and the next time the bladder becomes full the patient may be able to empty it spontaneously. There is no objection, however, to repeating the aspiration if necessary.