537 INJURIES OF THE URETER be noticed until urine escapes from the wound ; when the ureter has been included in a ligature, the true condition may not be recognised until the ligature has separated, and a ureteral fistula has become estabhshed. If the condition is not recognised at the time of the operation, the prognosis will depend to a considerable extent on whether the urine escapes into the peritoneal cavity or into the vagina, and also on whether the urine is aseptic or not. If aseptic, its escape into the peritoneal cavity may merely give rise to a locahsed collection of urine, which gradually makes its way through the line of incision and leads to a urinary fistula ; if it is septic there will be acute peritonitis. TREIATMEINT.—As wounds of the ureter are rare and are com- paratively seldom recognised, most of the suggestions as to treatment are based upon experiments on animals rather than upon actual operations on man. A certain number of operations have, however, been done on man and they help to indicate which are the best methods. We shall consider the treatment under the following heads :— {a) When the injury is recognised at the time. (b) When the injury is not recognised until some hours later. (c) When the injury is unnoticed until a ureteral fistula has become established. The treatment will vary according as the ureter is completely or partially divided, and in the former case according as a portion has been lost or not. The most important cases are those in which the injury is recognised at the time of the operation, and the surgeon has to repair it on the spot, and has no time to consult authorities. When a fistula has developed, he has time to plan out the most appropriate procedure, and can make a choice from a large number of methods. The chief methods of dealing with this accident are the following :— 1. Ligature of the distal end, and suture of the proximal in the abdominal wound. 2. Anastomosis of the divided ends. 3. Implantation of the proximal end into the bladder. 4. Implantation of the proximal end into the bowel. 5. Detachment of the bladder or the creation of a diverticulum in it so as to graft the ureter into it when a portion of the latter has been lost. 6. Nephrectomy. Primary nephrectomy for wounds of the ureter may be entirely dismissed ; secondary nephrectomy may be required later on should the kidney become disorganised by sepsis or hydrone- phrosis, or should the patient insist on having the organ removed owing to the annoyance caused by a permanent urinary fistula. (a) Of recent wounds. — When the ureter has been completely divided, but no portion has been removed, the simplest method of treatment is some form of uretcro-ureteral anastomosis ; when so much