556 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER The symptoms vary according to the stage of the disease and its mode of onset. In primary infection from the blood-stream there are practically no symptoms in the early stages. The first signs are pain in the loin—-usually moderate in amount and not much influenced by movement—frequent micturition, and polyuria, together with some diminution in the amount of urea and phosphates. Another early symptom is hematuria which may occasionally be severe and prolonged, but which is generally small in amount, often requiring microscopical examination for its detection. It appears without apparent cause and is not increased by movement or improved by rest. As the affection progresses, the pain in the loin becomes severe and of a lancinating or boring character. Attacks of renal colic occur and are probably due to the passage of caseous masses along the ureter, and occasionally there may be intermittent hydronephrosis. The kidney becomes tender and enlarged; in some cases this is the first symptom noticed. The organ may retain its normal oiitline, but it more often presents a lobulated character. As the disease advances, the urine contains pus, blood, and often debris and cheesy particles ; when there is a mixed infection the amount of pus may be very large. Sometimes there is albuminuria out of proportion to the amount of pus, and this indicates the existence of chronic nephritis or waxy degenera- tion. The tubercle bacillus may be found in the urine after centri- fugahsation, or by inoculating guinea-pigs. Sometimes there is severe dysaria. which may lead to an erroneous diagnosis of disease of the bladder. It is, however, not uncommon for a chronic non-tuberculous cystitis to be set up by the passage of the tuberculous material and pus ; there may also be coexisting tuberculous disease of the bladder. When the ureter is much thickened, it may be felt through the abdominal walls in a thin patient, or the lower end may be felt through the vagina in the female. In the early stages the patient's general health remains fairly good, but later on there is loss of flesh, accompanied by hectic fever and night sweats, and there may be marked toxic symptoms, such as anorexia and vomiting, and finally symptoms of septicjemia or pyaemia. The more severe symptoms are probablj^ due to secondary pyogenic infection rather than to the tuberculous disease itself. The diagnosis in the early stages may be extremely difficult. Should the tubercle bacillus be found in the urine, the nature of the disease is certain ; but in its absence the frequent micturition and the pain in the loin, both of which are unaffected by rest, together with the presence of pus and blood in acid urine, hectic fever, progressive loss of flesh, enlarge- ment of the kidney, and possibly tuberculosis elsewhere, will generally lead to a correct diagnosis. The hematuria of renal tuberculosis is not likely to be confounded with that of stone, as it is much slighter in degree and is uninfluenced by movement ; nor should it be confounded with