130 AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK pass into the trachea, it generally becomes impacted in a bronchus, which it blocks either partially or completely according to its shape and size. If, however, the body is sharp, it may become entangled in the trachea ; in one case in which we operated, a piece of bone was found which had been present there for a long time, and had given rise to stenosis which had been looked upon as syphilitic. A foreign body impacted in a bronchus generally causes partial or complete collapse of the corresponding lung. It may act as a ball-valve, preventing air entering on inspiration, but allowing a certain amount to escape on expiration until the collapse becomes complete. A foreign body impacted in a bronchus gives rise to inflammation in the vicinity, while the collapsed portion of the lung is likely to become the seat of pneumonia. The inflammation around the foreign body may gradually loosen it, and a recurrence of the laryngeal spasm may indicate that it is again loose and has been projected up against the glottis. In other cases an abscess may form and biurst into the trachea, so that the patient coughs up large quantities gf pus, or it may burst into the pleura, and be followed by empyema, or rupture into the mediastinum, and give rise to fatal celluhtis. Bronchiectasis is also a not uncommon result of the impaction of a foreign body in a bronchus, and this association should always be borne in mind in cases of that affection in children. Examination by means of the X-rays or a direct-vision bronchoscope should never be omitted whenever it is possible to employ these methods, both with the view of localising the foreign body and also of removing it. TREATMEISTT.—A foreign body, whether it gives rise to immediate serious symptoms or whether it has become impacted and is accompanied by less severe symptoms, should be removed. The methods of doing so vary with the nature of the foreign body, its situation, and the s5nnptoms it produces. (a) Of foreign bodies in the larynx.—When there is urgent dyspnoea, particularly in children, tracheotomy should be performed as soon as the patient is seen. In adults an attempt may be made to extract the foreign body at once, unless there is very marked dyspnoea. For this purpose the pharynx, larynx, and adjacent parts are anaesthetised with a 10 per cent, solution of cocaine applied by means of a brush. The situation and characters of the body are ascertained by a laryngoscope or a direct-vision instrument (see p. 143). Suitable forceps may then be introduced and the body extracted as gently as possible. In children, a general anaesthetic will generally be necessary and in them it will be safer, if dyspnoea is present, to perform a preliminary high tracheotomy (see p. 134) before attempting to remove the foreign body with forceps. When there is no dyspnoea, it is only necessary to cocainise the larynx so as to prevent sudden spasmodic closure of the glottis as the foreign body is being extracted. Tracheotomy instruments should always be