AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST i66 forwards as an unduly conical organ ; in the early stages, at any rate, the skin over it though hot is not reddened. The symptoms of acute inflammation are present, and oedema of the tissues around the base of the gland occurs ; when this condition is found, the presence of pus is fairly certain. The actual detection of suppuration is not easy so long as the pus is confined beneath the gland, and the best way of obtaining fluctuation is to place the fingers of one hand below and to the outer side of the organ, and then sharply depress the gland as a whole. Chronic sub-mammary abscesses are fairly common. They usually arise in connection with a tuberculous deposit beneath the organ, frequently in the ribs themselves, and form fluctuating swellings beneath the mamma which if left alone tend to point at the lower and outer edge of the breast. TREATMENT.—In acute cases the pus should be evacuated by an incision at the lower and outer part of the gland—the situation where it usually points. The cavity is explored with the finger and thoroughly drained. The treatment of the chronic tuberculous form is similar to that for chronic abscess elsewhere, and if it is connected with tuberculous disease of the ribs the abscess wall should be dissected out and the affected area of the bone taken away (see Chap. XVIIL). The best way of exposing the tuberculous focus beneath the breast is to make a curved incision along the lower and outer margin of the gland and turn it bodily upwards. This gives plenty of room to deal with the abscess and to resect the affected portion of the rib. After the operation the breast is replaced and the wound is stitched up. CHRONIC MASTITIS. This condition is quite common, and occurs in two principal forms. In the one the inflammation is limited to a portion of the breast, where it may form a tumour of considerable size : this is the chronic lobar mastitis. In the other, the inflammation attacks numerous lobules, and after a time the breast acquires a granular feel from the thickening thus produced ; this condition is termed chronic lobular mastitis, and it may affect only one or two lobules, but is usually diffused over the breast and is frequently present on both sides simultaneously. (a) CHRONIC LOBAR MASTITIS.—The majority of these cases follow injury or lactation, particularly at the weaning period. When the affection follows injury, it is probably due primarily to a localised hemorrhage, but it may be the result of repeated slight injuries in large heavy mammae or of undue pressure—as for example, by tight corsets or from playing an instrument, such as the mandolin, which presses upon the breast. In some cases the condition is tuberculous. There is usually comparatively slight, vague, and variable pain. On examination, a sensitive nodule may be detected, the outlines of the mass