AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 72 and somewhat severe operation involving a difficult dissection of an important region. When, however, there is severe pain in the arm and neck, and especially when there is anaesthesia and loss of power in the hand, it is necessary to cut down upon and remove the bony process. The chief difficulty in the operation is the position of the pleura which lies immediately behind the rib and is usually intimately connected with the periosteum, and may easily be punctured. The brachial plexus and the subclavian artery lie over the front of the rib, but they are fairly easily displaced to one side. The rib may be reached either from the front or the back. Anterior operation.—transverse curved incision with its convexity downwards is made in the posterior triangle, just above the clavicle from the middle of the sterno-mastoid muscle to the anterior part of the trapezius (see Fig. i8). The flaps are undermined and retracted, the deep fascia opened, the external jugular vein displaced inwards or divided, the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid pulled firmly in- wards with a large retractor, the omo-hyoid muscle defined and pulled up, and the subclavian artery and the brachial nerves lying upon the rib exposed. Usually the nerve cords can be displaced out- wards and the subclavian artery Fig. i8.—Incision for the removal of a , n i j Cervical Rib. dowuwards, but great carc must be taken not to exert undue traction upon the nerves, as otherwise symptoms such as ' winged scapula ' from paralysis of the nerve of Bell may subsequently occur. The best way to avoid damage to surrounding structures is to incise the periosteum freely along the edge of the rib, and to insinuate a curved periosteum detacher between it and the bone, and strip off the periosteum. As soon as this has been effected, a pair of cutting-pliers is slipped in between the periosteum and the rib, and the latter is cut across at its attachment to the spine or the first rib, or to both. When the bone has thus been loosened, it is usually easy to twist it out with the aid of a few touches of the knife leaving the periosteum intact. The stump of the rib is smoothed off with a chisel or cutting-pliers so as not to leave any projection against which the vessels or nerves might be damaged, and then as much as possible of the periosteum is taken away ; if it is left behind, a rigid band may form and give rise to pressure upon the nerves. It is possible that the pleura may be opened in doing this, but at this stage of the operation, it is not an accident of great moment. When