564 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER TREATMENT.—(a) Preventive—The surgeon is often asked by patients who have had attacks of renal colic followed by the passage of small calculi, but in whom there is no evidence of the presence of a stone, what they can do to prevent the formation of a fresh calculus. The preventive treatment of stone is largely hygienic and dietetic. A due amount of exericse, such as bicycHng, horse-riding or walking, should be prescribed, and the action of the skin should be promoted both by friction and by the occasional use of a Turkish bath. Excess of nitrogenous food, both vegetable and animal, must be avoided, and the diet should be quite plain. Alcohol should be prohibited, with the exception perhaps of a little whisky and water. When the urine contains an excess of urates, alkaline diuretics— such as bicarbonate of potash or soda, citrate of potash or lithia, benzoate of ammonium, and acetate of potash—may be prescribed. Urotropine is said to be a solvent of uric acid as well as an antiseptic and a diuretic, and may be given in ten-grain doses ; cystamine in five-grain doses is a good substitute. The patient should keep his urine diluted by drinking plenty of water; the mineral waters of Vichy, Royat, or Contrexeville are much in favour, and he may with advantage spend some weeks each year at one of those watering-places. It is important that the bowels should be regulated. When there is an excess of phosphates—phosphaturia—the above treatment is not efficacious. Any alkaline dyspepsia must be corrected. A generous diet, and treatment suitable for neurasthenia should be adopted. If the phosphaturia is due to pyelitis, this must be treated (see p. 550). Mineral acids, strychnine, bitter infusions, quinine, and preparations of iron are the most useful drugs ; antiseptics, such as urotropine, salol, and boric acid, in ten-grain doses thrice daily, may be called for when there is decomposition of the urine. In the oxalic acid diathesis, fresh air and exercise are of importance. Vegetables rich in oxalic aid, such as asparagus, tomatoes, rhubarb, or gooseberries should be avoided. Plenty of diluents are indicated, and stimulants are sometimes of value. Nitro-hydrochloric acid, bitter infusions, strychnine, quinine, and preparations of iron are the drugs generally prescribed. Contrexeville, and other waters containing lime, should be avoided. (b) Palliative.—-When small calculi are present, the above measures are also of value, and should be employed until it is obvious that the stone will not pass or that the kidney is becoming damaged by it and that therefore more radical surgical treatment is called for. It sometimes happens that a course of medical treatment causes the symptoms to disappear, and although probably in most of these cases the condition is one of gravel rather than of actual stone, it may happen, nevertheless, that a small stone may have its surface rounded off and may thus pass more readily down the ureter. When the diagnosis is