294 AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS layer of lint applied between it and the scrotum. If the cold is too great there wiU be slowing of the circulation, and the scrotum becomes blue, and if the application is continued gangrene may occur; to avoid this, the application should be intermitted every few hours for an hour or two. When the inflammation is not very acute, sufficient cold may be obtained by the application of ordinary evaporating lotions (see Vol. I. p. 9). Cold is only of value for the first two or three days. In some cases the pain is so intense that cold fails to relieve it, and then more benefit wiU be obtained from hot fomentations. A piece of mackintosh the same size as the support upon which the testicles lie {vide infra) is placed beneath the scrotum, and the fomentation is laid over the front of the testicle ; the mackintosh is then folded over so as to cover the fomentation, and a mass of hot cotton-wool is applied outside Fig. 71.—Support for the Testes in Acute Epididymitis. The shape of the support is shown in a. The larger figure shows its method of application. and fastened on by a bandage. Fomentations are especially valuable when suppuration is occurring, but on the whole cold is probably more effectual in arresting the inflammation, as it acts directly on the vessels of the cord ; it should therefore always be tried first. The venous congestion may be relieved by a brisk saline purge and by keeping the bowels freely open. When the inflammation is very severe, benefit may be obtained by the use of leeches, but there is always some risk in employing them, as it is diflicult to arrest the bleeding from the scrotum afterwards ; it is better to apply them over the external abdominal ring than over the scrotum. When the inflammation is extremely acute, an even better plan is to disinfect the skin of the scrotum and to open two or three of the distended scrotal veins with a scalpel. Bleeding is then encouraged by applying hot fomentations, and there is no difficulty in arresting the oozing. It will generally be necessary to administer morphine to relieve the pain and to check the restlessness that is associated with the inflammation