CANCER OF THE LARYNX 155 Complete laryngectomy for intrinsic cancer.—Complete laryngectomy may seem desirable in cases of intrinsic cancer under two sets of cii"cumstances. For example, the surgeon may come to the conclusion before operation that a thyrotomy will suffice for the removal of the disease, but on proceeding with the operation, he may find that the cancer is more extensive than he expected and that the disease cannot be completely taken away if the box of the larynx is left. Under these circumstances he has no alternative but to proceed at once to the opera- tion of laryngectomy. To abandon the operation after having opened the larynx and made an attempt to remove the disease is inadvisable. Again it may be evident at once on examination of the case that a thyrotomy with local removal of the growth will not suffice, although the disease is still confined to the interior of the larynx. Under these circum- stances, laryngectomy is the only feasible operation and the patient may rightly be advised to have it done. In both these cases there is a fair chance of non-recurrence of the disease—at any rate, for a consider- able time. Certain preliminary points may be mentioned in connection with the operation. As regards the ancestlietic, chloroform is the best; and as soon as the trachea has been divided and fixed to the skin, an ordinary tracheotomy tube is inseiled and the anjesthetic given by a Junker's apparatus, the tube being held over or inserted into the tracheotomy tube. Ether and hedonal have also been employed intravenously, but there are objections to the method, which have been already referred to (see p. 153). Local anfEsthesia is also employed by some. The position of the patient is of importance, more especially with reference to the prevention of blood and discharges passing down the trachea. A good view of the field of operation is obtained by raising the shoulders on a large sand-bag and letting the head hang back, the head of the table being lowered if necessary ; in this position most of the blood runs into the pharynx. Keen suggested some years ago that the Tren- delenbiu-g position should be adopted in operations about the pharynx and larynx, and though it is not very satisfactory in pharyngeal operations and in thyrotomy where the aryteno-epiglottic folds are intact, and though there is more bleeding, it keeps the field of operation very free from blood in complete laryngectomy. \n that operation, however, the trachea is divided and attached to the skin below the wound before the larynx is removed, and there is no special risk of blood passing down the trachea if the head is thrown well back. Although as a rule no noticeably enlarged glands are present in intrinsic cancer of the larynx, nevertheless, when the condition is such as to require a complete laryngectomy, it is probable that the glands are becoming infected and therefore they and the fat in both anterior triangles should be thoroughly removed. When complete laryngectomy is found to be necessary, during the course of a thyrotomy, the glands must be removed