CONTUSIONS AND RUPTURES 339 completely as possible before the instrument is passed. It is best not to use the ordinary soft catheter, as the surgeon has no command over the direction in which its point goes and will gain little information ; an instrament with a stylet bent to the ordinary urethral curve is better. In order to pass the instmment into the bladder, the surgeon must take care to keep the point well in contact with the roof all the way, and if he succeeds, the urine is at once drawn off and the instrument tied in. The appropriate treatment for any other injury present may then be proceeded with, but, should the attempt to pass the catheter be unsuccessful, further steps must be taken to empty the bladder before that is attended to. When the bladder is distended, some surgeons prefer to aspirate it above the pubes at once before attempting to pass a catheter. This is quite right when the surgeon is not prepared to proceed immediately with the repair of the urethra or when the patient is so collapsed as to be unable to stand operation ; it is, however, not advisable as a routine method. Some surgeons, however, advocate aspiration of the bladder above the pubes at regular intervals for several days, without interfering with the urethra, so as to allow the wound in the latter to heal. This plan we do not advise. Various views are taken as to the best way of dealing with the injury to the urethra. One line of procedure that is advocated is that, when a catheter can be passed easily, no operative interference should be practised, an instrument being merely passed at regular intervals to draw off the urine ; that, when catheterisation is difficult, but still possible, an instru- ment should be tied in for some days ; and that, when catheterisation is impossible, external urethrotomy should be performed. As regards the first point, we have already mentioned that serious consequences—such as abscess formation—may arise from infection of the clot effused into and around the urethral walls quite apart from the trouble due to extravasation of urine, and mere evacuation of the urine by a catheter does not prevent this. Indeed, the passage of a catheter is very apt to lead to such infection, and, when instruments are passed repeatedly, septic material will almost inevitably be introduced at some time or other and will probably lead to the inflammation which it is so desirable to avoid. We are therefore of opinion that unless the injury to the urethra is very slight—not more than an abrasion of the mucous membrane—it is not safe to depend on the passage of catheters at definite intervals. When, however, there is reasonable ground for believing that the injury has only affected the mucous membrane and has not led to rupture of any other part of the urethral wall, this line of treatment may be adopted, and the urine may be drawn off every six hours for three or four days, and then the patient may be allowed to micturate voluntarily. In carrying out this line of treatment it is essential that every precaution with regard to disinfection of the instruments (see p. 374) should be sciaipulously employed. Moreover, z 2