AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 74 Contraction of the sterno-mastoid, may also occur in connection with acute inflammation of the glands in the anterior and posterior triangles, especially of septic origin. Sometimes it may follow an eruption of boUs in the neighbourhood. A very important cause of wryneck is cervical spinal disease ; when the disease mainly affects one side of the vertebrae the sterno-mastoid on that side may be contracted, and a typical wryneck is produced. This is a possible cause that should never be forgotten when examining a patient with wryneck. In rheumatoid affections of the cervical spine some amount of wryneck is often present. TREATMENT.—^The treatment will depend upon the primary condition, and consists essentially in removal of the cause. In the ordinary siiff-neck from cold the best treatment is rest, together with the frequent application of hot fomentations, and the adminis- tration of a dose of calomel (gr. iii-v), followed by ten-grain doses of salicylate of soda thrice daily ; when the patient is gouty, colchicum and iodide of potassium should be added to the salicylate of soda. The affection is often excessively painful in the early stages, and ten grains of Dover's powder may be given at night to enable the patient to get sleep. As soon as the more acute stage has passed off, which will be in two or three days, the affected side may be rubbed with a liniment (such as the linimentum terebinthinse aceticum or equal parts of lin. belladonnas and lin. camph. co.) three or four times a day, and afterwards the neck should be wrapped up in a mass of hot cotton-wool. As a rule, recovery will be complete in a week or ten days ; but if there is a tendency for the condition to become chronic, a course of massage (especially vibratory massage) or a visit to a watering-place, such as Bath, Buxton, or Harrogate (see Vol. III. p. 144), will generally complete the cure. Turkish or hot-air baths are useful under these circumstances. In cases secondary to acutely inflamed glands the treatment must be directed to the latter (see p. 91). As soon as these subside, the wryneck clears up. When secondary to spinal disease the latter must be treated on appropriate lines (see Vol. III. p. 313). Rheumatoid affections must also be treated on the lines laid down in Vol. III. p. 143. CONGENITAL TORTICOLLIS. When wryneck is present at or immediately after birth it is usually spoken of as congenital. Children are seldom born with this condition, the generally accepted view being that the deformity develops after birth, usually as the result of some partial rupture of the sterno- mastoid during delivery, although some authorities hold that it is more usually due to malposition in utero or some other pre-natal condition. In congenital wryneck there is a permanent contraction of the sterno-mastoid muscle in which profound changes occur. Besides the