AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX 196 the accident, and the latter then aggravates the condition because the patient cannot empty the bronchial tubes properly, partly on account of the pain, and partly because of the involuntary fixation of the affected side of the thorax. If a number of ribs are broken, the affected side of the thorax may not move at all, and this absence of movement is probably the main cause of bronchitis when it occurs as a direct result of the injury. Fractures of the ribs usually unite firmly in three or four weeks, even when no particular steps are taken to secure accurate co-aptation and fixation of the fragments. It is very seldom that non-union occurs, and, even should it do so, it is of little consequence, provided that only one or two ribs be injured. The callus is small in amount, and at a later period there may be no sign of the injury having occurred beyond slight thickening at the seat of fracture. Not uncommonly, the patient complains of a good deal of pain at the seat of the fracture for some time afterwards. TREATMENT.—Of the fracture itself.—When only one or two ribs are broken it is not necessary to make an attempt to get the fractured ends into position, as a few deep inspirations will do this, and the sound ribs will prevent subsequent displacement. Even after puncture of the lung, displacement is usually only transitory, but when a number of ribs are fractured there may be considerable deformity ; even here, however, it is not necessary as a rule to attempt co-aptation. Should the fractured ends be driven in and penetrate the lung, it may be necessary to cut clown upon the seat of fracture and deal with whatever condition is found in the most suitable manner ; this, however, is very rarely required. Most simple fractures of the ribs heal well without anything being done for them; rest in bed in the semi-recumbent position for a few days, the application of an ice-bag or an evaporating lotion to diminish congestion, and the administration of morphine for the relief of pain or restlessness, will usually suffice. Strapping the ribs.—In some cases, however, it is advisable to restrain the movements of the ribs by the apphcation of strapping (see Fig. 55), but this should never be carried to such an extent as to interfere with respiration, especially in old subjects. Three or four strips usually suffice, as it is unnecessary to fix the entire half of the thorax. The best plan is to apply one strip, about three inches broad, over the line of the fractured rib, commencing just beyond the middle line in front and extending to beyond the spine behind; this should be put on during moderate expiration. Outside this, two or three more pieces may be applied, crossing each other somewhat obfiquely over the seat of fracture. There is no doubt that a support of this kind relieves the patient and keeps the parts steady. No bandage should be put on, as this would interfere with the movements of the opposite side.