AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER 52 When a stone is impacted in the common duct.—A stone in the common duct should be removed by incising the common duct directly over it—choledochotomy. Choledochotomy.—The laparotomy incision must be long, especially in fat subjects, in order to give proper access to the duct; if the vertical incision has been employed, it is well to add a short transverse cut or to curve its upper end inwards to the middle line (see Fig. 5). As the shock may be considerable, the most energetic measures should be taken to combat it (see Vol. IV. p. 209). The liver must be made prominent by a sand-bag under the lower ribs (see p. 43), and if the shoulders are also raised the liver gravitates downwards and the duct becomes more accessible. After the abdomen has been opened, the parts must be displaced so as to give a good view of the common duct ; the best way to effect this is to pull up the anterior edge of the liver, rotating it upon itself around its transverse axis, and after enveloping it in gauze, to give it to an assistant to hold. The common duct is thus brought about an inch nearer to the surface than its normal position. The intestines faU downwards by their own weight ; they may be kept out of the way by abdominal cloths, which must also be arranged so as to protect the whole area. Packing should be thrust well into the foramen of Winslow. The next point is to trace the cystic duct down to the common duct, separating adhesions to facilitate the identification of the latter structure. While doing this, careful watch must be kept for any fistulous com- munication between the gall-bladder and the bowel; if one exists and it is accidentally opened, the aperture in the bowel should be closed b}^ Lembert sutures in the ordinary manner. When the position of the stone has been made out, the packing is readjusted so as to make sure that no bile can escape into the general peritoneal cavity. The exact procedure for the removal of the stone will vary somewhat according to its position in the duct. When the stone lies in the first part of the common duct, the incision into it will be made above the pancreas and the duodenum, and directly over the stone; the calculus is then easily removed. In making this incision it is important to fix the stone so that it does not slip about, as in some cases the duct is dilated and the stone slips away and may easily pass up into the hepatic duct where it is very difficult of access. The best plan is to introduce the finger through the foramen of Winslow, hook it round behind the stone, and press the latter forcibly forward so that it is firmly fixed. In making the incision into the common duct it is very useful, if there are only a few adhesions, to incise first the peritoneal covering and then the wall of the duct separately ; this facilitates the introdixction of stitches subsequently. If there are many adhesions there will be no distinction between the peritoneal covering and the duct wall. When the stone lies in the second part of the duct, the best plan is to