FOREIGN BODIES IN THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA 131 at hand in case the attempt to extract the foreign body fails and severe dyspnoea is set up. When attempts to extract the foreign body by the natural passages fail, or when they are not advisable owing to its situation or nature, a thyrotomy should be performed without delay, combined if necessary with tracheotomy. When the larynx has been opened, a smooth foreign body can often be pushed up from below into the pharynx ; failing this, it may be grasped with forceps, which are then pushed up into the pharynx and the foreign body is seized from the mouth. Unless the body be very small, there is a risk of lacerating the vocal cords if attempts are made to pull it downwards through the glottis. When the foreign body is angular and its removal is therefore likely to lead to laceration of the parts above the cords—as for example an artificial tooth fixed with a hook—it is essential to split the thyroid cartilage from top to bottom. After the body has been extracted, the edges of the cartilage should be accurately united and the wound closed above the tracheotomy tube. Should the thyroid cartilage have been only partially divided, its accurate closure is easy. Should it be necessary to split it entirely, it is well before doing so to make a superficial transverse incision across the front of the cartilage, so as to provide a guide for the adaptation of its two halves afterwards. The tracheotomy tube should be left in until all danger of oedema of the glottis has passed off. (b) Of foreign bodies in the trachea.—^When the foreign body lies in the trachea, it should be removed as soon as possible by means of a Briining's tube (see p. 143). If this fails, tracheotomy should be performed ; when the body is loose, a high tracheotomy will suffice, provided that the opening is fi"ee enough to permit the body to escape easily. In adults it is advisable to use local ansesthesia. After the trachea has been exposed, a sharp hook is inserted into it on each side of the middle line before it is opened (see p. 135). As soon as the incision has been made into the trachea, each hook is pulled upwards and outwards ; the trachea is thus fixed and the incision into it dilated. At the same time, the surgeon must be on the alert to catch the foreign body should it be projected upwards opposite the incision. It has happened that the foreign body has thus shown itself, but has been sucked back and become impacted in a bronchus because the opening has not been sufficiently free to enable it to escape. If the body is small and the trachea sufficiently freely opened, the former is generally shot out; should this not happen, the patient may be inverted and shaken, or coughing may be induced by tickling the interior of the trachea with a feather. Should these manoeuvres not be immediately successful, Golding-Bird's tracheal dilator (see Fig. 30) should be introduced so as to keep the lips of the incision widely apart, in the hope that the body may be coughed up. If, however, the body is metallic, and an X-ray