533 INJURIES OF THE KIDNEY the peritoneum has been torn, and blood and urme are effused into the peritoneal cavity. It is obviously the only course when the kidney substance is completely pulped up. Conservative treatment.—In many cases nephrectomy is not necessary. Even in the severe cases, in which the organ is torn across more or less completely by a clean-cut laceration, or even when there is more than one laceration, or portions of the kidney are partially detached, it may still be possible to save it. The arrest of haemorrhage is the hrst consideration, and it may be effected by tying bleeding points, by plugging the wound in the kidney, or by approximating the cut surfaces firmly with sutures. The chance of tying the bleeding vessels is small, as ligatures cut through the renal cortex and are useless unless only the smaller branches of the renal Fig. 145.—Methods of suturing a laceration of the Kidney, Two methods arc shown. The two left-hand sketches show how an extensive laceration may be repaired by means of deep mattress sutures, reinforced by a continuous suture through the capsule. The two risht-hand figures show how a smaller wound may be closed by deep sutures only. As a rule the lacerations of the kidney are transverse to the long axis of the organ rather than vertical as depicted above. artery are torn close to the hilum or in the capsule. Ligature of the main branches of the renal artery would entail sloughing of a corresponding portion of the kidney; hence in the great majority of cases the best method of arresting hemorrhage is either by plugging or by deep sutures, and of these the latter plan is much superior and should be adopted when possible. Mattress sutures of chromicised catgut or kangaroo- tendon passed deeply through the kidney substance (see Fig. 145), and tied outside the capsule, will press the torn surfaces as hrmly together as possible, and will generally arrest the haemorrhage ; this method is also applicable when there is more than one rent, provided that the kidney substance is not actually pulped-up. The sutures must not perforate the calyces or the pelvis of the kidney, and may be reinforced by a continuous catgut suture which unites the rent in the capsule. A great advantage of this plan is that it not only stops the haemorrhage but also prevents the escape of urine into the peri-renal tissues.