AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER 578 wound does not heal, on account of the original disease of the kidney which led to the formation of the abscess. TREATMENT.—When the persistence of the sinus is due to imperfect drainage this must be rectified. When a peri-nephric abscess is not opened until it has lasted a long time, it may have burrowed extensively, and heahng may be delayed by imperfect drainage of the outlying recesses, or the part of the sinus passing through the lumbar wall may become unduly narrow before the deeper parts have healed. The treatment for this is dilatation of the canal and maintenance of a free exit for discharge from the interior. The sinuses may be either gradually dilated or slit up ; forcibly tearing open the sinus with forceps may lead to accidents —such as opening the peritoneum or even the colon. The best way is either to dilate them gradually with bougies or laminaria tents, or to enlarge them with a knife in the backward direction. When the sinus is due to infected stitches or a septic ureter after nephrec- tomy, the proper treatment is to remove the offending stitches in the first case, and, in the second, to expose the ureter if possible, and dissect it out ; short of that, scraping out the sinus and removing stitches is all that can be done. When the sinus is due to renal disease, the question of an operation on the kidney will naturally arise ; when stone is present, nephro- lithotomy or nephrectomy will be required; when the kidney is tuberculous, nephrectomy is the only operation which will lead to the closure of the sinus. URINARY FISTULA. These are the more important cases, and may arise after operations, such as nephro-lithotomy or simple nephrotomy, or in connection with tuberculous kidney. These fistulse naturally faU into two groups: namely, those in which the fistulous opening has been deliberately estabhshed for drainage of the pelvis of the kidney—for example, in pyelitis or calculous anuria—and those in which the fistula has followed an operation upon the renal pelvis or the kidney itself. The annoyance of a urinary lumbar fistula is so great that the patient will always beg to have something done to cure it, if possible. TREATMENT.—When the fistula has been deliberately established, the treatment wiU depend on whether or not the cause which originally led to the operation stiU exists, and on the condition of the other kidney. For example, when it has been done for septic pyelitis, it is only a temporary expedient, and when the pyehtis has improved, the drainage tube should be left out, and the fistula will generally close of itself. The same will be the case if it has been established for calculous anuria and the ureteral stone has been subsequently removed. In both these cases, the opening into the pelvis of the kidney should be made tlurough the kidney substance, so that a better surface for closure will be obtained than if it were made