AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER 54 If suture of the duct is decided on, it may be performed in several ways, and there are great differences in the ease with which it can be done according to the depth at which the duct lies from the surface and the presence or absence of adhesions. The fullest possible retraction of the wound should be effected by the assistant, the free edge of the liver should be drawn up and the duodenum pushed downwards as far as possible. A good light and good sponging are essential, as the escape of bile and the troublesome oozing from the plexus of veins lying over the common duct may hamper the surgeon very much. The fine needles recommended by Mr. Arbuthnot Lane for cleft-palate operations, passed by means of their special needle-holder, are often useful; others use a rectangular cleft-palate needle, and others again prefer fine, curved Hagedorn needles. We prefer to press forward the duct with the forefinger in the foramen of Winslow, and to use curved intestinal needles in a needle-holder. We always try to avoid taking up the mucuous membrane of the duct in the stitch, but this is not always possible. Two rows of interrupted catgut sutures should be inserted, the first layer passing through the outer waU of the duct and the second through the peritoneum over it whenever it is possible to differentiate between these two structures. Perfect closure of the incision may be obtained in this manner, and no leakage of bile is likely to take place ; when there are many adhesions, however, the distinction between the two structures will not be marked, and one layer of sutures must suffice. A drainage tube should always be inserted down to the duct. When the stone is impacted in the terminal third of the duct, especially when it lies in the ampulla of Vater, the surgeon has several courses open to him. He may attempt to squeeze the stone higher up in the duct and then remove it in the manner recommended above ; this, however, is not usually successful. He may attempt to crush or to needle the stone, but this cannot be recommended. The method we advise, when an attempt to push up the stone has failed, is to incise the anterior wall of the second part of the duodenum parallel to its long axis and over the situation of the orifice of the duct, and then identify and slit up the latter and extract the stone with forceps or a scoop. The duodenum should be emptied of its contents and clamped if possible on either side with intestinal clamps ; but if this is impossible, it should be squeezed empty and occluded by the pressure of an assistant's fingers until the incision has been made, when the edges of the incision are held well up and any contents mopped up as they appear. The orifice of the small papilla in which the duct ends is now slit up ; if that is indistinguishable, the surgeon cuts down directly over the stone. In slitting up or incising the duct in this manner, it is important not to carry the incision too high up, otherwise the cellular tissue behind the duodenum may be cut into ; as a precaution against extravasation of bile, it is well to insert a fine catgut suture on each side