AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS 3i8 the close connection of the cord with the tumour and the translucency of the latter will demonstrate the nature of the affection. Treatment.—The hydrocele should be excised through an incision extending downwards from the external abdominal ring, so as to expose it thoroughly. The parts are made tense over the tumour, which is cut down upon, layer by layer, and the constituents of the cord are separated from the sac wall; the latter is then removed. The operation is very simple, and healing should take place in a few days. Should there be a hernia present as well, a radical cure (see Vol. IV. p. 489) should be done at the same time. Occasionally, the hydrocele sac contains a milky fluid, and the condition is then termed chylotts or fatty hydrocele. Here there is some communication between the lymphatics and the hydrocele sac, and the condition is most common in those who are the subject of ftlariasis. Excision is better in these cases than tapping and injection. ENCYSTED HYDROCELE OP THE EPIDIDYMIS — These are really cysts and not distensions of the tunica vaginalis or the funicular process. There are two forms of encysted hydrocele of the epididymis, one of which contains spermatozoa and is commonly called a spermatocele, and the other, in which there is clear fluid without any spermatozoa. The cysts are very slow in development and seldom attain a large size. They are usually globular, and may be multilocular, and if large enough will show translucency unless the fluid is opalescent. Treatment.—The cyst causes no trouble apart from the inconveni- ence due to its size, and therefore no treatment need be undertaken if it is small. If, however, its presence causes the patient any annoyance, the best plan is to cut down upon it and excise it. Tapping, followed by injection, will also cure a good many of these cases. HYDROCELE OP A HERNIAL SAC—Occasionally, a hernial sac becomes obliterated at its neck, and the fundus becomes distended with serous fluid and gives rise to a fluctuating translucent tumour closely resembling an encysted hydrocele of the cord. Treatment.—This should be the complete removal of the sac, followed by radical cure of the hernia (see Vol. IV. p. 489). H.EMATOCELE. In a haematocele the tunica vaginalis becomes filled with blood, and the affection may either follow an injury or may occur in connection with a hydrocele of the tunica vaginahs. TRAUMATIC H.^MATOCELE. This may follow severe contusions of the testis and scrotum, and a similar condition may occur when a vessel is punctured during tapping