TUBERCULOSIS OF THE CERVICAL GLANDS 93 ciated. Tuberculous cervical glands frequently foUow enlargement of the tonsils, which in some cases are found to be tuberculous ; in many instances, however, even in phthisical patients, neither bacilli nor tuberculous tissue are found in the enlarged tonsUs, so that there is no definite proof that the bacilli gained entrance in this way. Enlargement of the glands is most common in the upper part of the anterior triangle of the neck. When the anterior triangle is affected, the infection of the glands spreads backwards beneath the sterno- mastoid muscle, and upwards and downwards along the course of the vessels. There are great variations in the number and size of the glands affected, in the rapidity and progress of the disease, and in the tendency to softening and abscess formation. From the point of view of treatment it is well to divide the cases met with into five large clinical groups. 1. The glands may remain small and firm or elastic, and are not sufficiently large to produce deformity and have no marked tendency to undergo softening. These glands are freely movable and there is no peri-adenitis matting them to the surrounding tissues. Other glands slowly become involved, but they tend to become gradually smaller unless some acute intercurrent mischief, such as sore-throat, influenza, or one of the exanthemata, occurs. After one of the intercurrent affections just mentioned, sudden increase in the size of the glands may take place, and the disease may run a more acute course. 2. In other cases the glands enlarge either steadily or by fits and starts untU they attain a large size and many glands are involved, so that marked deformity is produced. This condition is generally bilateral, although it is often more extensive on one side, and it may persist for a long time without suppuration, the glands remaining, meanwhile, mobile and discrete. The disease generally spreads by direct continuity from the neck to the axilla. The patient is usually of a pasty complexion and ^he general health is poor. The glands are converted into cheesy masses, some of which show calcareous nodules; others may appear normal to the naked eye, but under the microscope are found to contain tubercles. 3. In the third variety the disease is more acute and is prone to end in suppuration. The affection may be limited to a small group of glands, but these enlarge rapidly. Peri-adenitis sets in, and the glands become matted together and adherent to the adjacent tissues ; suppuration occurs early. Abscess after abscess may form if no operative treatment is emploj/ed, and numerous sinuses and unsightly ulcers often occur ; these sinuses may burrow in various directions. 4. When the patient first comes under notice, there may be advanced suppuration in the glands, but the abscess may not have burst externally. An abscess of this kind may be situated either beneath the deep fascia—