AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER 24 the ribs behind ; but in the absence of such definite indication, it should be made through an intercostal space. The usual rule given is that the needle should first be thrust inwards and backwards through the eighth intercostal space in the mid-axillary line and the liver explored in various directions from this spot. If no pus is found, the needle may next be introduced just below the ribs in the nipple line and, failing to find pus there, it may be thrust through the ninth or tenth interspace, below the inferior angle of the scapula. It is always well to have an exhausting- syringe or an aspirator-bottle attached to the needle, and, as soon as the tip of the latter reaches the liver, suction should be established so that pus will flow out directly it is struck ; otherwise the needle may pass through the abscess cavity without drawing off pus. If pus is not struck when the needle is first thrust in, the latter should be withdrawn until its point is near the surface of the liver, when its direction is altered and it is plunged in once more. If a needle of large bore is used, there is usually a free flow of blood whether pus be struck or not, and this is useful as showing the patency of the instrument; if nothing comes through, it is probable that the needle has become blocked with liver substance and it is well to force a few drops of normal saline solution through it, so as to clear it. The needle must be allowed to move freely with the liver in respiration, otherwise the liver substance may be unnecessarily torn. Mobility of the exploring needle is an important point, as its absence indicates the presence of adhesions to the diaphragm ; when these are present, the right side of the diaphragm is usually stationary and with it the liver, and consequently the needle. When pus has been found, the object of the puncture is attained, and the question arises whether the needle should be withdrawn or whether the abscess should be cut down upon with it in situ as a guide. When the puncture has been made through an intercostal space, it is better to leave the needle in position ; but, if the puncture has been made through the abdominal wall, this is not necessary, as the laparotomy will expose the surface of the liver and the point of puncture is easily seen. The incision and drainage of the abscess should be done at one sitting. It was formerly the practice to establish adhesions at a first operation, and a few days later to perform a second operation for drainage of the abscess after the adhesions had become established. When, however, the drainage is effected through the abdominal cavity it is quite possible to prevent infection of the peritoneal cavity by packing gauze around the drainage tube for two to three days, even when the pus is virulent. The pleural cavity can also be avoided or safeguarded by appropriate means (see p. 25). When the abscess has to be opened from the abdomen, a free incision should be made just below the costal margin directly over any prominence that may be present or over the spot at which the needle has localised the pus. When the liver is exposed, the point at which the aspirating