CHAPTER XXXVIII. 404 CALCULI, TUMOURS, AND TUBERCULOSIS OF THE PROSTATE. CALCULI. Prostatic concretions usually form in the dilated follicles of the gland, especially when the organ is enlarged. They consist in the early stage of inspissated secretion. Phosphate or carbonate of lime is deposited on these concretions and forms calculi. Prostatic calculi are brown in colour, comparatively small, often faceted, and of a porcelain-like consistency. They can usually be shown by the X-rays. Vesical calcuU that have escaped from the bladder and have become embedded in the prostate, or that lie in the prostatic urethra and increase in size there, must be distinguished from true prostatic calculi. They are diagnosed after removal by the fact that their nucleus consists of oxalates, urates, or uric acid, whereas the true prostatic stones do not show these salts ; calculi of vesical origin often project also into the bladder and become elongated and hour-glass in shape. Prostatic concretions seldom give rise to severe symptoms ; sometimes, however, they cause symptoms very similar to those of enlarged prostate. They are generally detected either on rectal examination or on passing a sound, by which the rough, characteristic grating of a calculus is detected before the beak of the instrument has reached the bladder. When the finger is introduced into the rectum, the stones, which are nearly always multiple, may be felt between the sound and the finger. TREATMENT.—In the majority of cases, a median perineal section (see p. 348) should be made, the membranous urethra opened, the finger introduced into the prostatic portion, the mucous membrane divided, and the calculi removed with forceps or a scoop. A drainage tube should be inserted into the bladder from the perineal wound for a few days. When the calculi are large, a crescentic incision similar to that for the opening of a prostatic abscess is better, and the stones may then be removed by the extra-urethral method, as in operating for tuberculous disease of the prostate (see p. 407).