287 RETAINED TESTIS ends of the ligature are caught in damp-forceps and given to an assis- tant to hold, whilst the surgeon finishes the radical cure of the hernia, which should be done on the lines laid down in Vol. IV. p. 489. The wound is closed and a collodion dressing applied, outside which a larger gauze dressing may be prolonged down to the lower end of the scrotum. The final, and very important, step is to arrange that the testicle shall not slip up again, and for this purpose the wire frame shown in Fig. 70 has many advantages over the older plans of stitching the scrotum to the thigh. The frame is made of moderately soft wire and can be moulded to fit the individual patient. It is fastened on outside the dressing by means of tapes, one of which extends from each side of the base of the frame around the body between the crest of the ilium and the great trochanter, whilst two tapes are fastened to the apex and pass up on each side in the folds of the buttock to the tape around the waist ; when these are tied, the transverse bar lies immediately below the bottom of the scrotum. The ends of the silk ligature are now passed around the bar, tightened up, and tied in a bow. This keeps the testis down in place with the scrotum stretched over it, and there is no chance of its receding as long as the stitch holds. Extra dressing is apphed outside the apparatus. The dressings are changed in about five days, when the skin stitches may be taken out and the traction thread tightened up so as to pull the testis a little lower down ; it may be tightened again at intervals of two or three days until it cuts its way through. If it has not given way before three weeks have elapsed, one end may be cut close to the scrotum, the thread pulled out and the minute aperture covered by collodion. The result of puUing on the testis in this manner is to stretch the structures of the cord as well as the scrotum ; moreover, the cord becomes fixed in the cicatricial tissue and the testis does not retract. Very good results have followed this method, the testicle increasing in size and obviously developing. Even should full success not be obtained, and should the testis retract to the upper part of the scrotum, it is still outside the inguinal canal and in a position in which it is free from injury, and may undergo development. This partial recession may occur when the descent of both testes is defective, and both sides of the scrotum Fig. 70.—Wire Frame for use in Or- CHIDOPEXY. The thread passing through the bottom of the testis is fastened to the bar, a. The base of the triangle lies over the symphysis, the ape.x is in the perineum.