75 CONGENITAL TORTICOLLIS sterno-mastoid, other muscles, such as the trapezius and the splenius capitis, may be affected secondarily, but the shortening in these is usually readily overcome when the contraction of the sterno-mastoid has been rectified. The latter muscle undergoes a fibrous transformation, new fibrous tissue being formed around the muscular fibres, which become compressed and disappear, leaving the affected area of muscle almost entirely transformed into a band of firm fibrous tissue. This change is not limited to the muscular fibres, but affects the sheath of the muscle, so that division of the former alone does not suffice to rectify the deformity. The sterno-mastoid muscle as a rule is unequally affected ; generally the sternal head undergoes more extensive alteration than the rest of the muscle and in some the transformation is limited to this portion, which can be felt standing out as a hard, rounded, fibrous cord; the result is considerable shortening of the muscle. Along with the shortening of the sterno-mastoid, there is well-marked arrest of development of the corresponding half of the head and face. This diminution in size of the affected side may occur in acquired torticollis as well as in the congenital form, so that the lesion is evidently secondary to the development of the wryneck and is not a mere congenital deformity. It is said that atrophy of the corresponding-cerebral hemisphere has also been found. A lateral curvature of the cervical spine may be present along with the torticollis, the concavity being on the affected side ; in severe cases there is a compensatory curve in the dorsal region. As a rule this curva- ture does not lead to permanent alterations in the bones and does not offer any obstacle to the reposition of the head after the muscle has been divided. It is always important to make sure that the case is one of primary torticollis and secondary curvature of the spine, and not primary tuberculous cervical spinal disease with secondary shortening of the sterno-mastoid muscle. TREATMEISTT.—All attempts to stretch the muscle mechanically are futile, and nothing but operative measures will succeed. There are two chief points in the treatment : firstly, to remedy the shortening of the sterno-mastoid, and secondly, to maintain the head in its proper position. Operation.—-It is essential to divide the sterno-mastoid muscle and its sheath in order to bring the head into proper position. The splenius, trapezius, andomo-hyoid—which may also be secondarily affected—do not require division ; their shortening is only temporary, and is not due to fibrous changes. As a rule, the sternal and clavicular heads of the sterno-mastoid, along with the anterior and posterior layei's of its sheath, must be divided. This may be done either by subcutaneous tenotomy or by division of the muscle through an open incision. The open operation is so infinitely superior to the subcutaneous one that it should always be employed, and it is therefore the only one that we shall descrilie.