585 INTERMITTENT HYDRONEPHROSIS A stone in the renal pelvis may temporarily block the entrance to the ureter, and give rise to intermittent hydronephrosis, but the most frequent cause is some abnormal condition of the ureter itself. There may be a partial stricture or a temporary kinking of the upper part of the ureter in connection with movable kidney. The condition which we have most commonly met with is for the ureter to come off from the pelvis higher up than it should, so that a sort of valve is formed, and distension of the pelvis with urine is accompanied by pressure of one side of the ureter against the other, preventing the exit of the urine (see Fig. 151). This condition may be congenital, but it can also be acquired as a result of repeated kinking of the ureter due to movable kidney ; in consequence, the pelvis becomes dilated, especially at the lower part, so that a sac is formed at a considerably lower level than the point of exit of the ureter, and the latter is apparently displaced abnormally high up on the side of the pelvis. It is not quite clear why in this condition the hydrone- phrosis should be inter- mittent, but it is possible that when the upper part of the pelvis becomes con- siderably distended, this opens up the valve, and so permits a certain amount of urine to escape. The injection of collargol into the renal pelvis by means of a ureteral catheter (see Chap. L.) will enable the surgeon to detect on a radiogram the early stages of this affection, and he may thereby be enabled to interfere with complete success in these cases before any marked changes have taken place in the renal pelvis or kidney. This condition is of course deleterious to the kidney, and may ultimately lead to persistent hydronephrosis. The patient usually suffers so much from these recurrent attacks that he is ready to have anything done that will afford relief. TREATMENT.—During an attack, the patient should be kept at rest in bed, morphine should be administered, and hot fomentations applied. When the attack has passed off—as it usually does in a few days—the question as to the best method of curing the condition must be considered, and this can only be done by operation. Fig. 151.—Diagram showing how a faulty attachment OF THE Ureter may cause Intermittent Hydronephrosis. A shows how the lower part of the pelvis may become dilated as a result of the unduly high attachment of the ureter. This produces a valve-like pressure of one side of the ureter against the other, and still further distension of the pelvis. When this has reached a certain point, the valve is opened by the great dilatation, and the urine in part escapes (JS).