AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE 4i8 If the urine is foul, it is better not to remove the prostate at once, but to insert a drainage tube and wait for a week or ten days until the renal function is in a more healthy condition. A large drainage tube is placed so that its end is just inside the bladder, and is fastened by stitches to the rectus muscle. Operation in two stages is also useful in very old and feeble people, and the small degree of shock and inflammatory reaction after the second operation is sometimes very remarkable. The enucleation is carried out as follows, whether it is performed at the time the bladder is opened or some days afterwards. The most prominent part of the projecting lobe, or of the middle lobe if that is present, is selected as the point at which to begin ; this intravesical projection of the prostate is only covered by mucous membrane, and lies inside the sphincter vesicae. The surgeon places his left forefinger in the rectum so as to push the prostate forwards and steady it during the manipulations, while the right forefinger is introduced into the bladder, and the mucous membrane over the projecting part of the prostate just inside the sphincter vesicae is either snipped through with a pair of scissors or torn through by the pressure of the finger-nail or a sharp director. When the capsule proper is reached, the finger is passed between the enlarged gland and the surrounding tissue, and the separa- tion proceeded with all round until the apex of the gland and the urethra are reached. When the whole gland has been loosened in this way, the prostatic urethra is torn across as high up as possible. The prostate now lies free in its cavity, and is removed by means of the finger or suitable forceps either as a whole or in two halves. If there is much haemorrhage after the removal of the prostate, the cavity should be irrigated with sterile saline solution at 120° F. In the majority of cases this is unnecessary, and still more rarely is it necessary to pack the cavity with gauze strips. If that must be done, the strips should be removed at the end of forty-eight hours. A large drainage tube, with an internal diameter of three-quarters of an inch, should be introduced, so that its inner end projects into the bladder for about half an inch, and the outer end fastened to the skin with a silkworm- gut suture. A small drainage tube should be placed in the space behind the symphysis pubis in case infection should occur from the septic urine. The rest of the skin incision and the margins of the separated recti muscles may be approximated by through-and-through sutures ; buried stitches should not be employed, as they are very apt to become infected and delay the healing of the wound. The dressings should be abundant, and are changed as often as may be necessary. During the first twenty-four hours, some clots may be discharged through the tube or collect in it and in the bladder. The bladder should be irrigated with hot saline solution through the tube and the clots removed at least once a day. It is most important that