GALL-STONES 51 cholecystostomy and cholecystectomy. The advantage of cholecy- stectomy is that it not only gets rid of the stones which are present, but also removes the inflamed gall-bladder ; and it is improbable that the patient will ever be troubled with gall-stones again, as they very rarely develop in the hepatic ducts; the convalescence is also much shortened, most patients being well in three weeks. The surgeon must, however, be certain that there are no stones in the common duct. A stone in the cystic duct is not a contra-indication to the operation, as removal of the cystic duct may be combined with the cholecystectomy. There is much divergence of opinion on the question of cholecystostomy versus cholecystectomy even among the writers of this volume, some preferring cholecystectomy whenever it can be done, others limiting its use to cases in which the gall- bladder is small and shrunken. The radical operation is more severe than cholecystostomy and is not advisable in feeble and old patients, but it is being more generally employed than it was. Cholecystostomy should be employed when there are extensive adhesions of the gall-bladder, when the patient is too feeble to stand extirpation, and when there is any doubt as to whether the common duct is patent. The ' ideal ' operation, or cholecystotomy, is only available in a small number of cases in which there is little or no cholecystitis and the walls of the gall-bladder are moderately thick, and when it is certain that there are no stones either in the cystic or the common duct. When a stone is impacted in the cystic duct.—After the stones in the gall-bladder have been removed, fine forceps or a scoop should be introduced through the opening in the fundus and guided to the cystic duct by the finger passed in through the abdominal wound and palpating the duct from the outside, the abdominal cavity being carefully packed off so as to avoid all chance of contamination by the bile. Attempts are then made to guide the forceps or the scoop along the duct and to withdraw the stone ; these attempts may sometimes be aided by pushing the stone up towards the neck of the gall-bladder. If this fails, an incision may be made directly over the stone towards the hepatic aspect of the duct so as to secure adhesions between the incision and the liver after removal of the stone, and not between the duct and the stomach. The cut edges of the duct are imited by Lembert sutures of hne catgut, and the opening in the fundus is drained (see p. 48). In these cases, however, it is better to remove the gall-bladder and the cystic duct together with the stones in them, unless the patient is old and very feeble. Cholecystectomy has the further advantage here that no biliary fistula is likely to follow, whereas this may happen after removal of a stone from the cystic duct, as the inflammatory condition produced by the impaction of the stone may end in a cicatricial stricture of the duct, which will give rise to a permanent fistula. Moreover, it is more difficult to suture an incision in the cystic duct than to deal with its divided end.