CYSTOSCOPY 499 the tube. This has the disadvantage of collecting pus and debris, and requires very careful cleaning. In the author's irrigating cystoscope (see Fig. 134), the outer catheter tube can be boiled, and the valve which closes the distal end acts by a spring placed outside the lumen and may also be used as a turncock. The telescope is separate, and is a long tube containing a number of lenses and a prism at the distal end. The telescope is made by Zeiss, and gives a very sharp, magnified, erect image. The advantage of the irrigating cystoscope is that only one intro- duction of the instrument is required, and, should it be necessary to wash out the bladder during the cystoscopy on account of clouding of the medium, this can be done by withdrawing the telescope without moving the outer tube from the urethra. The cystoscope can be cleaned with ether-soap and carbolic lotion (i in 20), or biniodidc of mercury solution (i in 1,000), and care should be .^'■-LE|H„ah.M[y^i,)R,r,s, Fig. 134.—Thomson Walker's Irrigating Cystoscope. The instrument is fully described in the te.xt. taken to flush the catheter tube with the antiseptic. If the author's pattern is used, the catheter tube may be boiled for two or three minutes, taking care that the lamp is well screwed on to prevent water getting between the lamp and the metal contact which carries the electric current. The telescope is cleaned with ether-soap and antiseptic. It is not boiled. The electric current may be derived from accunuilators, dry cells, or from the main electric supply. For metal filament lamps, dry cells (4^ volts) can be obtained. They are small, light, and inexpensive. For carbon filament lamps; a higher voltage is required, and larger accumu- lators or batteries are necessary. In taking the current from the main; a rheostat is required, and an additional finely graded small rheostat can be affixed to the contact of the larger rheostat to reduce the current to the required voltage. METHOD OF PBRFORMmO INDIRECT CYSTO- SCOPY.—The cystoscope is sterilised, and is placed in a tall jar containing carbohc lotion (i in 40)- The lighting apparatus is carefully K K 2