AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 140 LOW TRACHEOTOMY. This operation is usually performed when there is no great hurry in opening the trachea, and when therefore the bleeding can be con- trolled as it occurs ; as a rule, however, the haemorrhage is not so free as in the high operation. The preparations are the same as before, but the incision should commence at the lower border of the cricoid cartilage and be carried down as far as the sternal notch. As the wound is deepened, the innominate vein may bulge up close behind the sternal notch, and may be wounded unless care is taken to avoid it ; the anterior jugular vein may require ligature. The deep cervical fascia is divided vertically from the lower border of the isthmus of the thyroid, and it is well to add a transverse incision above ; the isthmus of the thyroid can then be pulled well up by a double hook. The trachea is fixed and opened as in the high operation. Difficulties.—The trachea may he missed entirely, especially in a small, fat child ; the operator in seeking for it has been known to do serious damage to important structures in the neck. This difficulty is best avoided by taking care that the chin and sternum are in the same straight line, and that the incisions are kept strictly to the middle line throughout. If the trachea is displaced by a tumour or from some other cause, its position should be determined before making the incision, which must lie over it. The finding of the trachea is facilitated by steadying the larynx between the thumb and finger, in the manner recommended above, until the trachea has been opened, and the surgeon should not be flurried in the performance of the operation. No attempt should be made to open the trachea before it has been clearly identified by seeing and feeling the rings ; even should respiration cease, the operation should be continued deliberately, and artificial respiration begun as soon as the trachea has been opened. A cause of great embarrassment to inexperienced operators is the hcemorrhage which may occur in urgent cases; however free this may be, it is almost entirely venous and is due to the great congestion of the veins from the obsti'uction to respiration. The operator should therefore not stop to arrest it, for, as soon as the opening has been made into the trachea and respiration is freely established, the veins collapse and serious bleeding ceases. If the bleeding should continue after the trachea has been opened, the operator will then have plenty of time to retract the edges of the wound and clamp the bleeding points. A very good plan in urgent cases is to turn the child over upon the face immediately the trachea has been opened, so that the blood finds its way externally and not into the lungs. After the child has been in this position for some time and respiration has become normal, the haemorrhage is reduced to a minimum, and