25 ABSCESS needle has been inserted may be seen, and gauze should be packed all around this spot between the abdominal wall and the surface of the liver, leaving a sufficient area of the latter for free manipulations, just as in evacuating pus through the abdominal cavity. If the puncture is not evident, a fresh exploration may be required to locate the abscess. The liver is then bored through with a pair of sinus forceps until the abscess is reached, and the track is enlarged sufficiently to admit a No. 24 drainage tube. The opening in the liver should be just large enough to grasp the tube, so that pus cannot escape alongside it, and the tube should only have holes at the end where it lies in the abscess cavity. Gauze is now packed around the tube, and the greater part of the abdominal wound is left open, only the ends of the incision being l^rought together with silkworm-gut. A single abscess treated in this manner does perfectly well in the majority of cases and the cavity closes in a month or six weeks. When tlie abscess has to be opened through the thoracic ivall, the mid- axillary line should be chosen and the pus located with the aspirating needle as before. In this situation the lowest limit of the pleura is at least two inches above the costal margin,- and the pleural cavity may therefore be avoided when the needle is introduced. When the pus has been struck, the needle is left in situ and an incision three inches long is made over the rib below the needle and parallel to the long axis of the rib, a portion of the latter is excised, and the dissection carried down until the diaphragm is reached. If the pleura is seen it is pushed upwards. The diaphragm is now incised with a narrow-bladed knife which should be slipped in alongside the needle. This is done parallel to the direction of the muscular fibres and it is well, in order to shut off the subjacent peritoneal cavity when there are no adhesions, to pack gauze in between the diaphragm and the liver all round the needle ; the assistant should press the liver firmly up against the diaphragm meanwhile so as to approximate the two structures. A long pair of dressing-forceps is then thrust alongside the needle until it reaches the abscess cavity, when the blades are expanded sufficiently to admit a drainage tube {vide supra). When the abscess is situated farther back and has to be opened in the line of the posterior border of the scapula, the pleura will necessarily be opened—unless its cavity has been obliterated by adhesions—and means must be taken to close it before the abscess is opened. With this end in view the parietal layer of the pleura should be detached from the thoracic wall, whilst the layer covering the diaphragm is also dissected up and the two edges are united by a continuous sutuie so as to shut off the pleural cavity ; a little gauze may be packed over it for additional protection. After the drainage tube has been inserted, it is well to pack the wound around it with gauze for twenty-four or forty-eight hours. The bleeding, although often free, practically stops as soon as the