388 AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA and all the others are withdrawn, and the surgeon can then either perform an external urethrotomy at once, using the filiform bougie as a guide, or he may tie in the bougie for twenty-four or forty-eight hours in order to effect continuous dUatation. There need be no hesitation in tying in a bougie in these cases as it is a small instmment and will not entirely block the stricture and the patient can pass urine alongside of it. A fine bougie is much better than a fine catheter if soft instruments are being used ; the latter is so fine and is so readily blocked that it is of little use for draining off the urine, while it is very rare for a stricture to grip a fine bougie so tightly that the urine cannot pass alongside it. When once the stricture has been dilated sufficiently, the surgeon can usually avoid passing the instrument into false passages subsequently as he knows the direction of the canal; moreover, the orifice of the stricture will probably then be larger than that of the false passage. (b) Of strictures accompanied by severe cystitis.—When a patient with a stricture has bad cystitis, the first indication is to provide for free drainage of the bladder. For these cases intermittent dilatation is unsuitable, partly because of its slowness and partly because of the risk of infection of any accidental crack of the mucous membrane by the foul urine. When the stricture is not dense or extensive, the simplest plan is to anaesthetise the patient, dilate the stricture rapidly up to a No. 7 or 8, and then to tie a catheter of that size into the bladder. Through this the urine can escape readily and the bladder may not only be kept drained but may be washed out if necessary, while the presence of the catheter insures dilatation of the stricture. It is always best to give an ansesthetic, as spasm and straining are done away with and a larger-sized instrument may often be passed than would otherwise be possible. Special care must be taken to see that only the eye of the catheter lies in the bladder (see p. 343), otherwise its end may impinge against the mucous membrane and cause spasm and ulceration. In simple cases treated on these lines the cystitis wiU pass off in a few days and the treatment of the stricture may then be carried out by intermittent dilatation. When, however, the urine is very foul, it is possible that the mere retention of an instrument in the stricture will cause much irritation, and under these circumstances external urethrotomy, preferably by Syme's method, will give better results, as it will enable a larger-sized instrument to be tied into the bladder and will therefore facilitate drainage. (c) Of strictures complicated by acute epididymitis.—The treatment for epididymitis is described separately (see p. 293). It is well not to attempt to dilate a stricture during the acute stage of the affection. When the acuter symptoms have subsided, either intermittent dilatation or external urethrotomy should be employed. (d) Of strictures accompanied by retention of urine.^—Acute retention of urine—that is to say, complete inability to pass water—