464 AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER radiogram. This method of examination may, however, fail, because a stone composed of pure uric acid is so transparent to the rays that it does not cast any shadow at all. Cystoscopic examination of the bladder is the most useful method, and will reveal the presence of a calculus and its relation to the bladder wall (see Chap. L.). Its employment will do away with the necessity for several of the older methods of examination. The bladder-sound (see Fig. 125) is useful for those who are not expert cystoscopists, for by it the size, con- sistence, and number of the stones present may be ap- proximately ascertained. It is advisable that the bladder should contain at least two or three ounces of fluid when the sound is used, as in a collapsed bladder a small stone may easily become covered by the folds of mucous mem- brane and escape notice. Moreover, if cystitis is present, the examination is very painful if the bladder is empty. It is, however, advisable not to have more than five ounces of water in the bladder, because if the bladder is too distended, the beak of the sound may not reach the bladder wall in the post-prostatic region, and a small stone in that situation may escape detection. The urine should be examined before it is decided to sound the patient, and if it is foetid or ammoniacal, suitable treatment should be adopted to render it more healthy before the examination is made. It is usually unwise to sound the patient in the surgeon's consulting-room; and especially if he is elderly, it is well to keep him in bed for a few hours before and after it is done. During sounding, the patient lies flat upon his back and the pelvis is raised, so that the stone may fall upwards and away from the post-prostatic pouch. The greatest care must be taken with regard to the disinfection of the sound, the orifice of the urethra, and the hands (see p. 374). It may be well to employ a general anaesthetic if the bladder is very sensitive, but this is not necessary in most cases. A soft rubber catheter is passed, the urine is withdrawn, and three ounces of warm boric lotion are injected. If there is much irritability of the bladder, a small quantity of a 2 per cent, solution of novocaine may be added to this. The sound is then passed, and may strike the stone immediately it reaches the bladder. Should it not do so, a systematic exploration of the interior of the organ should be undertaken. The instrument is inserted as far as possible, and the beak turned to one side ; it is then gradually withdrawn until the internal orifice of the urethra Fig. 125.— Bladder Sound.