AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER i8 INJURIES OF THE GALL-BLADDER AND BILE-DUCTS. Injuries of the gall-bladder and bile-ducts usually occur in connection with injuries of the liver and give rise to similar symptoms, so that the case is generally diagnosed and treated as one of injury of the liver, and the damage to the gall-bladder or bile-ducts is only found at the time of operation. Injuries of these organs may, however, occur without damage to the liver, and the gall-bladder is more likely to be affected alone than the bile-ducts ; it may be lacerated as the result of a blow over the gall-bladder region, especially if the viscus be distended. These injuries may also occur as a result of stabs or gunshot wounds. Should no im- mediate operative measures be adopted, the extravasation of bile following the rupture will lead to a plastic peritonitis and the formation of a fluctua- ting swelling, whilst there will also be jaundice due to absorption of bile from the peritoneum. If left alone, the case may end fatally, either from toxaemia from the absorption of bile, or from septic complications due to contamination of the extravasated material. If the gall-bladder is healthy, the rent in the organ may heal and spontaneous cure may result. If suppuration occurs, the infection may be due either to a septic condi- tion of the bile—as when a diseased and dilated gall-bladder is ruptured —or to organisms that have found their way from the alimentary canal. TREATMENT.—The abdomen should be opened by the usual incision (see p. 44), the bile sponged away, and the condition of the parts examined. A limited rupture of the gall-bladder may be closed by a layer of Lem- bert's sutures, taking up all the coats except the mucous membrane. It is well to insert a drainage tube down to the region of the laceration for a few days in case infection should have occurred before operation. Should there be no signs of suppuration, the tube may be removed on the third day and the abdominal wall brought together by a loose suture inserted, but not tied, at the time of the operation. In extensive injuries or ruptures of the gall-bladder or cystic duct, the best plan is to remove the gall-bladder (see p. 50). For a inound of the common duct, the treatment will vary according to its nature. Small vertical or slightly oblique slits need not be sewn up, as they heal well if drainage is provided. Drainage is dealt with in connection with choledochotomy (seep. 53). Should the duct be torn completely across, an attempt should be made to restore its lumen by suture. Free drainage must also be provided, and some surgeons have recommended that a cholecystenterostomy should be performed at the same time, so as to avoid the risk of a permanent biliary fistula should union of the divided ends of the duct fail to take place. Terrier has suggested that complete rupture of the common duct should be treated by ligature of both ends followed by the performance of cholecystenterostomy. The objection to this procedure is that the