AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX 228 into contact with the visceral pleura everywhere. It is well, however, to insert drainage tubes beneath the flap. The results of this operation are extremely variable. In the case of small cavities which do not extend high up the chest, the success may be striking; in others, even the most extensive operation fails to cure. Considerable improvement, however, generally occurs, for the main part of the cavity becomes obliterated and only a comparatively small sinus is left—usually at the upper part—and from this only a slight amount of discharge comes, which may not do the patient any harm. Decortication.—In view of the unsatisfactory results that some- times follow Estlander's operation when performed for bad cases, the suggestion has been made that the lung should be decorticated—that is to say, that the dense, fibrous layer of the pleura which covers it and binds it down into the vertebral groove should be peeled off so as to allow the lung to expand. We have followed this recommendation with success in more than one case in which a previous Estlander's operation had failed, but there is a danger of setting up a septic infection of the lung tissue. The steps of the operation are almost identical with those of thora- coplasty in the early stages—and indeed decortication may be looked upon merely as an addition to that operation. After the cavity has been exposed by the removal of the thoracic parietes, the dense layer of the visceral pleura covering the lung is divided with the knife until the lung is reached; the edge of the incision is then seized in forceps and the thickened pleura stripped off the lung with a blunt instrument as far back as the edge of the vertebral groove. It is striking to see how the lung expands when this has been done. As a rule, the oozing is only moderate. It is advisable that the separation of the visceral pleura should be effected slowly, as collapse of the lung, which was previously prevented by the dense adhesions, may occur and result in serious embarrassment to respiration. Some form of differential pressure (see p. 232) should be used in these cases to prevent this complication. The operation is finished by putting in a drainage tube and suturing the cutaneous flap as before. Of tuberculous empyema. —■ The symptoms associated with tuberculous empyema are indefinite, and the condition may only be discovered when the physician comes to examine the chest ; it may occur with or without pneumo-thorax. In the former case there will probably be an acute onset corresponding to the perforation of a cavity into the pleura ; but when no such perforation occurs, the symptoms may be quite slight and few or no pressure symptoms may be present; the patient simply goes about with a collection of fluid in the chest which, however, although not under great pressure, leads to collapse of the lung. These cases are very imsatisfactory. As a matter of experience, it