INFLAMMATION OF THE PLEURA 217 NON-SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION OF THE PLEURA. Pleurisy is essentially a medical disease, and the only point that we have to consider is the treatment of pleurisy with effusion. It may be mentioned that the majority of the cases of pleurisy with effusion occur in adults and that they seldom call for surgical interference. THEATMEISTT.—When surgical interference is required, it is for the relief of dyspnoea or other symptoms of intra-thoracic pressure, or because the fluid does not become absorbed ; it takes the form of paracentesis thoracis. It is essential to avoid free opening of the pleural cavity, especially when the case is tuberculous. Exploratory puncture of the thorax.—By this means the diagnosis of pleural effusion is confirmed, and the nature of the fluid determined. The operation is simple, but it is important to use a sufficiently large and long needle. In a moderately stout person the normal pleural cavity may lie at least an inch and a half from the surface of the skin, and this measurement may be much increased if the pleura is thickened Hence, the needle should be three inches long and should be of large calibre, otherwise it is apt to become blocked by flakes of lymph and there will be difficulty in drawing off the fluid. The syringe should be provided with a well-fitting piston so that sufficient suction may be produced. The ordinary hypodermic needle and syringe are of little value. It is always advisable to employ a syringe and needle that can be boiled. It is also well to be provided with an ordinary aspirator and an aspirating- bottle, so that, if necessary, the whole of the fluid may be withdrawn at the same time. The greatest care must be taken in disinfecting the skin and the instruments, as it is not infrequent for suppuration to follow exploration of a case of simple pleurisy with effusion. Carbolic acid should not be used to disinfect the needle or barrel of the syringe, because it causes coagulation of the fluid and a cloudy appearance which may be mistaken for pus. If it is not possible to boil the syringe, and carbolic acid must be used to disinfect it, it should be thoroughly washed out with boiled water before use. When the effusion is not localised to a particular area of the pleura, the patient should be placed in the recmnbent or semi-recumbent position with the affected side well over the edge of the bed or couch ; an aseptic towel should be placed beneath the thorax, the skin disinfected, and the needle introduced through the sixth intercostal space in the mid- axillary line. If a large needle is employed, it is well to make a small puncture through the skin with a tenotome in the first instance, as this not only allows the needle to pass in more readily, but avoids the risk of carrying in epidermis and bacteria from the cutaneous surface. No anaesthetic is necessary, but in a nervous patient a few drops of a 2 per cent, solution of novocaine may be injected hypodermically ; freezing should be avoided, as the skin becomes hard and it is difficult to introduce the