GONOCOCCAL URETHRITIS 351 because there are various other causes of purulent urethritis ; before any case is pronounced to be gonococcal with sufficient certainty for medico-legal requirements, the gonococcus must be recognised in the discharge both by microscopical examination and by cultivation. It is equally miportant that great care should be taken in pronouncing that any given case of gonorrhoea is cured. The fact that no gonococci are found in the discharge at any one time is by no means a proof that the trouble has disappeared ; repeated examinations must be made. Indeed, so long as any discharge is present either from the urethra itself or from the prostate or the vesicul^ seminales—as shown by increase of discharge after pressure on these organs—no case should be looked on as cured. GONOCOCCAL URETHRITIS IN THE MALE. The inflammation commences in the anterior part of the urethra, the organisms attacking the superhcial layers of the mucous membrane in the first place, but spreading more deeply later on. The inflammation rapidly spreads from the fossa navicularis along the penile urethra, to which it may remain limited for a few days ; it extends into the posterior urethra, however, in the majority of cases, and in no case does it remain limited to the anterior urethra after the second week of the disease. The urethral mucous membrane becomes swollen, congested, and thrown into folds, and the inflammatory exudation spreads into the submucous coat, and may involve the spongy tissue surrounding the urethra, which then loses its elasticity and consequently does not stretch pari passu with the corpora cavernosa during erection. This condition leads to painful erections known as chordee. The usual incubation period is from three to live days ; occasionally it may be as long as a week, and a much longer period has been noticed in very rare cases. The susceptibility of individuals differs gieatly, and the disease is not necessarily always contracted when there has been exposure to contagion. The acuteness of the inflammation usually increases for the first few days, and then remains more or less stationary for about ten days, after which it gradually subsides ; when the disease runs its course without complications and without passing into the chronic condition known as gleet, it will last about six weeks altogether. In a large number of cases the disease becomes chronic and may go on for an indefinite time, there being only a slight mucoid discharge ; the disease is then termed gleet. Some of the complications met with are due to local extension of the disease, and some to infection of parts at a distance. Amongst the principal are balanitis, phimosis and paraphimosis, peri-urethral abscess, thrombosis; lymphangitis; bubo; epididymitis; prostatitis, vesiculitis, cystitis, retention of urine, gonorrhoeal rheumatism, and gonorrhoeal ophthalmia.