142 AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK orifice of tlie wound. Tlie best method of meeting this is either to dispense witli the tube entirely or to substitute the india-rubber one (see p. 138). Cellulitis of the neck may occur from infection of the wound. This serious condition must be treated by free incisions followed by large boric fomentations frequently repeated. The great risk is that the affection may spread into the anterior mediastinum and end fatally. Emphysema is rare when a tube is employed, but is apt to occur if the tube is left out immediately after the operation. Stenosis and adhesions about the glottis sometimes occur and prove most troublesome complications ; their presence may involve wearing the tube permanently or at least until the child grows up. They are most likely to occur when the tube has been kept in too long or when the cricoid cartilage has been divided. The treatment consists in passing dilators from the tracheotomy wound through the glottis at regular intervals, or in intubating the larynx. A plastic operation may sometimes be required. Tracheotomy may be called for to relieve urgent dyspnoea in diphtheria, acute laryngitis, oedema, or stenosis of the glottis. We may add here some remarks with regard to certain points in the operation when it is done for diphtheria. Tracheotomy for diphtheria,—Some surgeons hold that an anaesthetic had better not be employed in these cases, but we are of opinion that it is of great advantage so long as there is entry of air through the larynx. It is mainly needed for the skin incision and it prevents strugghng and therefore further embarrassment of the respiration and consequently less troublesome haemorrhage. Chloroform is most suitable for this purpose. Should it be deemed advisable to operate without an anaesthetic, the child should be rolled up in a large towel or sheet so as to confine the arms to the sides, the legs should be fastened to the foot of the table, and an assistant, whose duty it is to retract the wound, should sit at the head of the table and fix the patient's head immovably between his elbows and forearms as he holds the retractors. As soon as the trachea is opened, the patient generally gives a violent cough, and quantities of mucus and membrane may be expelled. The operator and his assistants must remember the risk of infection under these cirucmstances, and must not therefore be bending over the patient when the trachea is opened ; they should always wear thick masks, and some surgeons interpose a glass plate between their faces and the wound. A piece of moist gauze should be thrown over the wound as soon as the trachea has been opened. It is important not to introduce the tube immediately, but to hold the edges of the trachea aside with sharp hooks or a tracheal dilator, so as to allow frge respiration and expulsion of as much diphtheritic membrane and mucus as possible. Indeed, if the child is quiet, it may be advisable