598 OPERATIONS UPON THE FEMALE GENITALS wound. Adhesions should be looked for during this process and dealt with ; omental adhesions are ligatured and intestine peeled off, and this can be more readily done if the cyst is tense. Another advantage of not tapping the cyst is that soiling of the peritoneum is prevented. The cyst may contain purulent fluid, or it may be a dermoid, or may contain papillomatous growths, or it may be mahgnant, and, by keeping the cyst entire, infection of the peritoneum due to the escape of the fluid is avoided; if the cyst is very large or adherent deep in the pelvis, it may, however, be necessary to evacuate it, in whole or in part, before it can be delivered out of the abdomen. The pedicle and the Fallopian tube are ligatured. The pedicle may be long and thin, or it may be broad and short, or twisted. If it is long and thin, it is transfixed by a pedicle needle passed through the broad ligament where there are no visible vessels. Sterilised silk is the most convenient material to use, and a long piece is threaded in the needle with the two ends of equal length. As the needle is withdrawn, the loop of the silk is caught and then divided so as to form two separate ligatures, which are tied separately round each half of the pedicle ; finally one loop is tied round the whole stump. Before tying the ligatures, they may be interlocked. After the silk has been tied, the tumour is removed by dividing the pedicle some distance beyond the ligatures, forceps being applied below the ligature to hold up the pedicle so that it may be inspected to see that all the vessels are properly secured. If any vessels bleed, they must be ligatured or the whole pedicle again transfixed and tied. When the pedicle is thick and broad, several ligatures will be required. After the surgeon has made certain that there is no bleeding, the peritoneum is stitched over the raw surface and the pedicle allowed to drop back into the pelvis. Any blood is then mopped up from the peritoneal cavity, and the opposite ovary and tube are examined to see if they are healthy. No drainage is required. Dermoid cysts should always be removed entire, and the same remark applies to inflamed ovarian cysts and to those in which the pedicle is twisted. When the cyst has ruptured spontaneously, the peritoneal cavity must be thoroughly cleansed. If there are papillomatous masses in the peritoneum, and these are not malignant, they should be removed as completely as possible, care being taken not to injure the intestine. REMOVAL OF BROAD LIGAMENT CYSTS. These cysts are situated between the two serous layers forming the broad ligament, and are therefore covered by the peritoneum of that structure. After the intestine has been packed off with gauze and the patient placed in the Trendelenburg position, the peritoneum over the cyst is incised until the cyst wall is reached ; it may then be shelled out. The ureter is often close to the cyst, and therefore care must be