379 ORGANIC STRICTURE and tied in. A stricture may be fully dilated in this way in the course of a few days. The patient must be confined to bed and should take some urinary antiseptic (see p. 354) internally ; if there is trouble from erections, bromide of potassium and chloral may be given once or twice daily, combined if necessary with a suppository containing a quarter of a grain of extract of belladonna and a grain of extract of hyoscyamus. A ccideiits attejiding the passage of an instnuneni.—Several embarrassing and even serious accidents may accompany the passage of an instrument. Occasionally there is much shock, and the patient faints and remains collapsed for a time. This is especially the case with neurotic subjects, and may occur even when the greatest gentleness is employed. When the patient is known to be very neurotic it is well to administer a small dose of morphine previously or to apply novocaine to the urethral mucous membrane ; 20 minims of a 4 per cent, solution of novocaine are taken up in a Guyon's syringe, the nozzle is introduced about an inch down the urethra, and a few drops are pressed out ; the nozzle is then passed farther on and more injected, and so on, until the drug has been brought into contact with the whole of the urethra down to the stricture. The lips of the meatus are pressed together so as to prevent the fluid escaping, and in ten minutes the mucous membrane will be fairly insensitive. The administration of brandy or a diffusible stimulant, such as sal volatile, is called for if shock occurs, and the patient should stop in bed for the rest of the day. There may be a good deal of hcBtnorrhage in some cases, even without the formation of a false passage or the production of any serious laceration of the mucous membrane ; it is most likely to occur in plethoric patients who have been drinking or eating to excess and in whom the urethral mucous membrane is much congested in the neighbourhood of the stricture, so that a mere touch with a soft instrument provokes bleeding. As a rule this trouble may be avoided if the patient is confined to bed for a few days before commencing the treatment, put on a low diet, and purged freely with salines. A 4 per cent, solution of novocaine, combined with a small quantity of adrenalin chloride (i in 1000), may be injected, and after this has had time to act, it is well to fill up the urethra with sterilised oil so as to insure that the lubrication of the instrument is perfect. Soft instruments should be used in the early stages, but metal ones may be substituted when the stricture has been dilated up a few sizes. The surgeon meets with false passages under two conditions : he may make them himself and be conscious of doing so, or they may have been made previously by another surgeon or unconsciously by himself. The existence of a false passage greatly complicates the case, for an instru- ment passed along the urethra almost invariably finds its way into the false passage, because the opening of the latter is more in the direct line