AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER 12 front of the right kidney ; this reflection is sometimes called the ' hepato-renal ligament.' The posterior layer of the gastro-hepatic omentum when traced upwards is reflected on to the liver at the posterior margin of the portal fissure, covering the caudate and Spigelian lobes. The liver has five ligaments—^namely, the coronary, the suspensory or falciform, the round, and the right and left lateral ligaments. The sus- pensory ligament is of considerable surgical importance as it serves to limit abscesses in the subphrenic region. It extends from the front to the back of the organ and is continuous behind with the coronary ligament; it surrounds the round ligament below. It consists of two opposed surfaces of peritoneum, and extends upwards from the umbilicus, being reflected above on to the anterior abdominal wall and the diaphragm; it lies a little to the right of the middle line. The transverse colon, which lies directly in contact with the anterior abdominal wall, encloses a well-defined area of the peritoneum between itself and the liver ; extravasations from the liver may therefore be confined to this area without affecting the general peritoneal cavity, provided that the extravasation is slow enough for adhesions to form, which stfll more effectually limit this space. An extravasation in this area will find its way downwards towards the right iliac fossa outside the ascending colon. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE BILE-PASSAGES. When in its usual position, the fundus of the gall-bladder lies directly behind the ninth or tenth right costal cartilage, but it is sometimes situated well to the right of this spot. When the gall-bladder is small it may be entirely covered by the edge of the right lobe of the liver, but when enlarged it extends below it and is deflected inwards towards the umbiHcus ; it may also reach into the lumbar or csecal regions. These anomahes in position are due not only to changes in size of the organ itself, but also to alterations in the shape and size of the liver and to adhesion of the gall-bladder to neighbouring structures. As a rule the gaU-bladder measures from three to four inches in length and about one and a quarter inches at its broadest part, which is usually situated about two-thirds of the distance from its neck. When diseased its variations in size are extreme. It may be so large as to be mistaken for an ovarian cyst, whflst on the other hand it may be so small as to escape notice except after the most careful search. A point of practical importance is the marked variation in the thickness of its waU ; normally it is quite thin, but it may be much thickened as the result of inflammation. The gall-bladder lies in contact with the hepatic flexure of the colon.