AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 100 anterior incision to heal, and secures drainage from the most dependent point. When the posterior triangle alone is the seat of the enlarged glands, the main mass is usually situated just above the clavicle. The incision (see Fig. 23) commences a little in front of the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid, just on a level with the most prominent part of the glands, and curves upwards and backwards to the anterior margin of the trapezius. A vertical incision over the centre of the glandular mass may be used when the glands are very numerous and extend high up, but this gives a more conspicuous scar. An essential point in this operation is to avoid injury to the branch of the spinal accessory nerve which runs across the space to the lower part of the trapezius. This is often very diffi- cult because the glands run along the nerve and may completely surround it. The first part of the operation consists in detaching the fascia from the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid muscle, paying special at- tention to the point of emergence of the spinal accessory nerve. After the nerve has been defined in front. Fig. 24.-INCIS10N FOR REMOVAL OF TuBER- ci probc fs lusinuated along it and cuLOUs Glands from the Submaxillary tisSUCS divided OVCr this, SO Region. that the nerve is bared through- out its whole extent and may be kept from injury afterwards. The glands generally run beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle below, and are attached to the jugular vein ; if the mass is pulled upon, the jugular vein is generally drawn out behind the sterno-mastoid. If this is the case, the vein should be defined above the glandular mass, the sheath divided, and the glands detached. On the right side this is easily done ; on the left side the presence of the thoracic duct below must be borne in mind, and also the fact that lymphatic branches run from the glands to the duct, and the latter may be torn if much force is used. When the glands are situated in the submaxillary region a curved incision is carried downwards from the symphysis of the lower jaw to the hyoid bone, and then backwards along it and upwards to the angle of the jaw (see Fig. 24). In many cases the glands are adherent to the submaxillary gland; every effort should be made to leave this gland intact, but it may be necessary to take it away in bad cases.