48o AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER appeared on other parts of the mucous membrane. Under these circumstances, Herring's injection method may be tried in the first instance before further operations are undertaken (see p. 478). MALIGNANT TUMOURS. Sarcoma of the bladder is rare. It is usually of the round-celled type, and occurs more often in young subjects than in adults. Carcinoma of the bladder may be primary, or secondary to carcinoma of surrounding structures, such as the rectum, uterus, or prostate. The primary growth is a squamous-celled epithelioma, and its progress is usually slow ; indeed, the history may extend over two to four years. Occasionally, the growth spreads much more rapidly, and the patient may die from repeated haemorrhage or from septic decomposition of the urine. The most common situation of the tumour is the neighbourhood of the ti^gone or the orifices of the ureters, and the growth soon infiltrates the bladder wall. Infection of the lumbar glands and secondary deposits in other organs are usually late in developing, and the patient may die from exhaustion due to prolonged haemorrhage before infection of the glands has taken place. Haemorrhage generally appears later than in simple tumours, and is usually more persistent, although the blood is often smaller in quantity than in cases of villous tumour. Pain is a much more constant symptom, and may be due in part to the presence of the growth, but chiefly to the fact that cystitis sets in comparatively early. The pain may be very severe, and is referred to the supra-pubic region, the perineum, the bladder, and the thighs and loins. Micturition is very frequent, and the patient's condition is extremely miserable. The diagnosis will be made by a consideration of the characters of the haematuria, by microscopical examination of the urine—which often shows bladder epithelium in large quantity, or fragments of tumour—and by cystoscopic examination. Examination by a sound does not yield any definite information, and is apt to set up bleeding. Cystoscopic examination under these circimistances must be gently done, otherwise haemorrhage may obscure the view. A time should be chosen when the urine is comparatively free from blood, and undue distension of the bladder must be avoided. Useful information may also sometimes be obtained by the use of a metaUic catheter with a large eye. The instrument is introduced into the bladder, the urine drawn off, three or four ounces of boric lotion injected, and the catheter used as a sound ; a soft mass, which is not as definite or as hard as a stone, may be felt, and its outline may be made out between the catheter in the bladder and the finger in the rectum.