AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 86 Injuries to the brachial plexus may follow violent blows, and are especially comn:on when the blow is delivered in a downward direction or when the arm is violently pulled. According to the particular portion of the plexus injured there will be various paralyses of the upper arm. The plexus may also be pressed upon by callus or by cicatricial tissue, and this may occur after the passage of a bullet. The cervical plexus may also be damaged, although much more rarely. Birth palsies are due to traction on the plexus during the delivery of the infant. In some cases they may be due to the direct pressure of the accoucheur's fingers. The affection is generally unilateral. The earliest symptoms are pain and tenderness in the supraclavicular region and loss of power in the arm. The position of the arm will vary according to the extent of the paralysis. Post-anaesthetic paralysis is not uncommon. This occurs, as a rule, in patients in whom the arms are kept abducted, externally rotated, or raised above the head during the operation, and is probably due to overstretching of the brachial plexus. In some cases it may be caused by the nerves of the upper arm being stretched over the head of the humerus, and sometimes to the pressure of the arm against the edge of the table. The lesion is an incomplete one and the prognosis is good. The thoracic duct is another of the important structures in the neck which may be injured either accidentally or during an operation. This subject is dealt with in Vol. II. p. 32. TREATMENT.—OJ wounded vessels.—We have already dealt fully with the treatment of injuries to arteries and veins and their sequelae (see Vol. II.). The remarks made there apply to similar injuries in the neck. Of injuries to the nerves of the neck.—The treatment of nerves that have been divided in the neck is exactly similar to that required for injured nerves in other regions. If the nerve is divided during the course of an operation, the divided ends can usually be seen easily, and if they are of any size, they should be united by sutures in the usual manner (see Vol. II.). When the operation has to be done for an old-standing injury, the difficulties may be very great owing to adhesions and the presence of scar tissue. Of injury to the brachial plexus.—The brachial plexus may be exposed in the neck by opening the lower part of the posterior triangle. This is best done by making a curved transverse incision (see Fig. 22), com- mencing in front of the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle and running backwards across the posterior triangle to the margin of the trapezius. The extremities of the incision may be carried upwards so as to make a flap which is dissected up ; the deep fascia is divided and the omo-hyoid muscle exposed. In the upper part of the wound care must be taken not to injure the spinal accessor}/ nerve as it runs back to the trapezius. The upper border of the omo-hj'oid muscle is defined and