401 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS the skin wound being enlarged upwards and downwards by a sawing movement as this is done, and a pair of sinus-forceps is puslied into the abscess through the perineal opening ; the finger is kept in the rectum until the pus is reached. As soon as pus begins to flow, tlie finger is withdrawn from the rectum and a fresh glove put on, and then the abscess cavity is opened up, the finger of the right hand being introduced into it in order to break down any septa that may be present. A large drainage tube (No. 14) should be introduced into the cavity and stitched to the skin of the perineum. The urethra should not be opened in this operation, although it may give way subsequently from sloughing of the thinned mucous membrane. If it does, a urinary fistula will follow, but it generaUy closes as the abscess contracts. Any haemorrhage may be controlled by packing gauze firmly around the drainage tube. Should much packing be required, the tube should be of gum-elastic material instead of india-rubber, so tliat its lumen is not closed by the pressure. Another and perhaps better method of reacliing the abscess is through a transverse curved incision midway between the anus and the bulb of the urethra. The median raphe is divided, and, after the peri-rectal fat has been exposed, the left forefinger is introduced into the rectum and serves as a guide ; a pair of sinus-forceps is then pushed upwards in the peri- rectal fat until the capsule of the prostate is reached. When the forceps penetrate the wall of the abscess, the blades are widely separated, any septa crossing its cavity are broken down by the finger, and a large drainage tube is introduced. If the abscess has burst into the rectum before the patient is seen, the anus should be fully dilated, a large bivalve speculum introduced, and the opening of the abscess exposed and enlarged so as to give free exit to the pus. The opening in the rectum should be stuffed with strips of iodoformed gauze to prevent it from closing. After the third day the stuffing may be left out, and the rectum should be irrigated daily with saline solution after the bowels have acted, in order to prevent faecal material collecting about the opening. It is not advisable to make a perineal incision in these cases, as a fascal fistula would probably occur. Should a perineal urinary fistula have formed, the sinus should be freely opened up and a catheter tied into the bladder (see p. 342). Healing usually occurs readily. When an enlarged prostate is present, the treatment of acute prostatitis and prostatic abscess is sometimes very difficult. In all cases a soft rubber catheter must be tied into the bladder, as retention always complicates the affection, and of course aggravates it. V. D D