488 • AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER two inches of the latter near its angle. InternaUy, comes the erector spinee, beneath and to the outer side of which is the middle layer of the posterior aponeurosis of the transversahs abdominis, and deeper, the quadratus lumborum. In front of the quadratus is the anterior layer of the posterior aponeurosis of the transversahs muscle, with the last dorsal, ilio-hypogastric, and ilio-inguinal nerves, and the outer part of the psoas muscle. In front of this again is the peri-nephric fascia, and inside that the adipose tunic of the kidney. It may be necessary to resect a portion of the last rib in order to obtain space for removal of the kidney, and care must thenbe taken not to injure the pleura which descends as far as the neck of the twelfth rib ; further forward, the twelfth rib is generaUy below the pleura which runs from its neck to the eleventh rib. It may, however, descend even below the neck of the twelfth rib. When the last rib is rudimentary, the pleura may run from the level of the last dorsal vertebra to the eleventh rib, or in some cases only from the eleventh dorsal vertebra to the eleventh rib. ANATOMY OF THE URETER. The ureter is about twelve inches long, and the left is slightly longer than the right. It commences to the inner side of and somewhat above the lower extremity of the kidney, opposite the body of the second lumbar vertebra. On the posterior surface of the trunk this corresponds to a point rather more than an inch and a half from the middle line on a level with the upper border of the second lumbar spine, while on the anterior surface it is the same distance from the middle hne on a line drawn round the body about one inch below the central point between the upper border of the manubrium sterni and the symphysis pubis. The ureter descends on the surface of the psoas muscle to the brim of the pelvis, where it crosses the lower end of the common or the upper part of tjie external ihac arteries (see Fig. 130). At the brim of the pelvis, the position of the ureter is indicated in front by a point corresponding to the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the line indicating the course of the common and external iliac arteries. This line is drawn from a point half an inch below and to the left of the umbihcus to a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis. The ureter then turns backwards and outwards along the side of the pelvis to a point about an inch in front of the spine of the ischium; thence it passes forwards on the upper surface of the levator ani muscle to its termination in the wall of the bladder. In its course it presents three constrictions and two intermediate dilatations. The first constriction is situated about two and a half inches below the hilum of the kidney, which is the narrowest part of the ureter. The second constriction is at the point at which it passes