AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 84- operation it is advisable to infuse some saline solution, followed if necessary by subcutaneous injections of strychnine and digitaline (see Vol. I. p. 112) to combat the shock, which is often profound. When the trachea is injured and the larynx has escaped, a tracheotomy tube may be dispensed with if the margins of the wound in the trachea can be accurately sutured. But in such cases the superficial parts should be left open and a drainage tube introduced down to the site of the injury to permit the escape of air and blood. After-treatment.—^The patient should be put to bed with the head bent well forward on to the sternum, so as to take off all tension. The head may be flexed by a large, firm pillow beneath it, and prevented from rotating by sand-bags on each side. If, however, the patient is restless, a firm bandage may be applied around the head, from the front of which long strips pass down to be fastened to the foot or sides of the bed. For the first few hours, at any rate, it is advisable to tie the patient's hands to the sides of the bed, and the case must be watched night and day to restrain restlessness and particularly to see that the bandages are not torn off. A thin layer of gauze wrung out of warm water and sprinkled with terebene should be placed over the orifice of the tracheotomy tube, and fresh terebene or eucalyptus oil should be dropped on it from time to time so as to keep up a constant antiseptic inhalation. The administration of some sedative, such as bromide of potassium and chloral, or the hypodermic injection of hyoscine hydrobromide (gr. Yio) is generally necessary on account of the patient's restlessness ; morphine as a rule is objectionable as it increases rather than diminishes this. As much nourishing food as possible should be given and, unless the patient be extremely weak, it is well to employ rectal feeding for the first few days (see Vol. IV. p. 257). As the patient begins to recover, food may be administered by the mouth, but the question whether this may be given in the ordinary way or whether a stomach tube should be used will depend largely upon the conditions present. When the superior laryngeal nerve has been injured, or when there is extensive damage about the base of the tongue, feeding should be carried out through a stomach tube and great care must be taken to see that the tube does not pass into the larynx. Should there be any doubt on the point, as there may be when a tracheotomy tube has not been used, it is well to run a few drops of boric lotion through the tube after its introduction and before food is given; should the tube pass into the air-passages, coughing will be at once excited, and no harm will be done by the introduction of the boric lotion. Oi Complications.—Septic pneumonia.—Should this affection set in, the outlook is very grave ; the treatment should be conducted on medical lines, and will consist mainly in the administration of con- centrated nutritious food and free stimulation by alcohol, ether, or