i86 AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST membrane, and by picking up the edge of this fascia, it is now possible to detach the inner part of the membrane from the first intercostal space and the upper part from the subclavius muscle. This part of the operation should be done mainly by blunt dissection, using the knife as sparingly as possible so as to avoid wounding the vein. For this purpose the ordinary blunt dissector or the special dissecting combs designed by Kelly may be used. The sheet of fascia is now turned outwards, and the first part of the axillary vein is exposed ; this should be cleaned and all the fat and fascia around it turned downwards. It is imperative that this stage of the operation should be done thoroughly. Special care should be taken to remove all the fat behind the upper part of the axillary vein, as infected glands are often present in that situation. The next step in the operation is to detach the humeral attachment of the pectoralis major. This should be done quite close to the bone, otherwise a stump of muscle is left, which becomes adherent to the scar and limits the movements of the arm. The fascia over the biceps and coraco-brachialis is then incised and turned downwards so as to expose the thhd part of the axillary vein and the brachial plexus, ah the fat and fascia in this region being cleaned off and turned downwards towards the axilla. The fascia is now detached from the outer border of the pectorahs minor, and the deep surface of that muscle is separated from the under- lying fascia, care being taken to preserve its nerve and vascular supply, and the muscle is then retracted upwards and away from the chest wall. By following up the fascia over the front of the vein, the point is reached at which the vein was cleared from above, and the fat and fascia from the region of the costo-coracoid membrane can be drawn downwards and outwards towards the axilla. The freeing of the vein and the other axillary structures is then resumed from the point reached before the attachment of the pectoralis muscle to the humerus was divided, branches of the axillary artery and vein being clamped and divided as they are cleared and the fascia being followed up in front of the vessels along the inner side of the coracoid process and turned down with the rest. In this way the fat and glands are gradually cleared from the vessels and turned down until the lower part of the axilla is reached. The dissection of the breast and fascia from the chest wall is now resumed, and the fascia over the serratus magnus is detached until the position of the nerve of Bell is nearly reached. This nerve is identified and cleared, and its point of attachment to the muscle is noted. The nerve of Bell is followed up into the root of the neck, and the mass of fat and glands which run up behind the vessels and nerves, and lie Over the nerve of Bell, is peeled down ; in doing so the intercosto- humeral nerve should be preserved, for the time at any rate. At this stage it is well to cover up the wound with hot cloths, Hgature all the