242 AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX pressure or by the intratracheal anaesthetic method, and the patient should lie on his back or slightly turned towards the sound side, with the affected side drawn over the edge of the table, or he may lie on the affected side itself—as for opening an empyema (see p. 220). The skin incision may be made under local anaesthesia, a solution of novocaine (one-half per cent.) being injected into or around the intercostal nerves at various points. The first injection should be made around the nerves at and behind the line of the angle of the scapula where they are single and lie in the middle of the intercostal spaces between the intercostal muscles. Further forwards, they bifurcate—the larger branch lying under cover of the rib above, and here the needle must be directed under each border of the ribs; a wide area of the subcutaneous tissue around the seat of operation must also be infiltrated. Once the pleura is reached local anaesthesia is useless, and a general anaesthetic—preferably, chloro- form—must be substituted. As a rule, however, it is more convenient to employ a general anaesthetic from the first, but to suspend its administration after the skin has been divided until the pleura is reached. An opening should now be made into the thorax, 3 to 4 inches in diameter, portions of at least three ribs being removed in the ordinary manner. It will then become evident whether the pleura is adherent to the lung or not. If it is adherent, the abscess cavity may be sought for over that area by means of an aspirating-needle, and, if found, a free opening may be made into it b}^ a knife, a thermo-cautery, or the diathermic apparatus. The opening is then dilated sufficiently to admit the hnger, and the extent and ramifications of the cavity are investigated. Finally, a large di^ainage tube is inserted, fitting the canal sufficiently tightly to prevent bleeding, the wound is left open, and the ordinary dressings applied. If there are no adhesions, the pleura is opened under differential pressure, and the condition of the lung is examined. The portion of the lung in which the abscess is suspected is brought up into the wound—if necessary, after further resection of the ribs and division of any pleural adhesions which prevent it coming forward—and the parietal and visceral pleurae are united by stitches beyond that area. The sunplest way of securing an air- and water-tight approximation of the two layers of the pleura is to unite them by a series of locked stitches inserted in the same way as in needlework. The needle is inserted and brought out, and the second insertion is made midway between the points of insertion and emergence of the first. The third insertion is made midway between the points of insertion and emergence of the second stitch—i.e. close to the point of emergence of the first, and so on. There is thus practically a double layer of stitches all round the circle. In order to avoid tearing the pleura—especially after the operation, when the patient is removed from the differential chamber—pulmonary tissue on the one hand, and