13 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE BiLE-PASSAGES the anterior abdominal wall, and the first and second parts of the duodenum ; it usually contains about an ounce of fluid, and should not be felt through the abdominal wall if it is healthy. Although the attachment between the gall-bladder and the liver is normally fairly loose, any inflammation spreading through the walls of the viscus may give rise to firm adhesions. As a rule it is partially invested by the peritoneum which passes from the under-surface of the liver over the under- surface of the gall-bladder ; in rare cases a definite mesentery may be present. The mucous membrane about the neck of the gall-bladder and in the cystic duct is thrown into folds, which may embarrass the surgeon when he attempts to pass a probe from an incision in the fundus through the cystic into the common duct. The cystic duct measures about one and a half inches in length, and passes backwards and slightly downwards and to the left to join the hepatic duct and form with it the common bile-duct. These two structures unite at an acute angle, and it is important to remember that a lymphatic gland is frequently found in the angle between them, and may be enlarged as a result of any inflammatory condition about the parts and may simulate a calculus on digital examination. Similar glands are met with over the common duct, and may also form pitfalls for the surgeon if they are enlarged. Over the common duct also there are numerous small vessels arranged in an abundant plexus, and these may be a source of troublesome haemorrhage when the duct is incised. The common duct is usually divided into three parts. The first part lies above the duodenum, is fairly free and accessible, and is about an inch and a quarter in length. The second part lies behind the first part of the duodenum, and is more difficult to get at; whilst the third portion is embedded in the pancreas and is practically beyond the surgeon's reach from outside. In order to expose the second part of the duct, the duodenum and the head of the pancreas must be raised from it. Owing to adhesions, it is sometimes difficult to identify the common bile-duct after the abdomen has been opened. The simplest way is to trace down the cystic duct from the gall-bladder until it joins the common duct ; but when dense adhesions are present this may be difficult, and in that case the best plan is to pull up the anterior margin of the liver so as to rotate that organ upon its tranverse axis; and then to feel for the foramen of Winslow, and pass the finger through it. The common duct lies in the free edge of the gastro-hepatic omentum, having the portal vein behind it, whilst the hepatic artery lies behind and to its left side. In the portal fissure the order of the structures from before backwards is duct, artery, and vein. The gall-bladder acts as a reservoir for bile, and probably fills up during the night and during fasting, and empties itself whilst digestion is in progress. It has been known to be entirely absent, and its complete removal apparently causes no inconvenience.