SUPPRESSION OF URINE 575 (see Fig. 131) is inserted, and the stone projected forward from the vagina, so that the orifice of the ureter is rendered accessible. Here it is as a rule unnecessary to explore the ureter outside the bladder by an incision above the pubes. SUPPRESSION OF URINE. Among the complications associated with stone—especially after an operation—is suppression of urine, which may be either obstructive or non-obstructive. By obstructive suppression, or ' calculous anuria,' is meant blockage of the ureter or ureters by a stone, by the non- obstructive form, a condition in which suppression is brought about reflexly by the shock of an operation acting upon kidneys already diseased. CALCULOUS ANURIA. This is the most serious complication of renal calculus, and may occur independently of operation from blockage of the ureter by a calculus. Occasionally, calculi block both ureters, but when calculous anuria occurs it usually implies that the patient has only one functionally active kidney, and that a calculus has blocked its ureter. As a sequela of operation, it usually follows nephrectomy—a stone passing down the opposite ureter and blocking it ; it is hardly likely to occur after nephro- lithotomy, unless the kidney operated upon is badly diseased, because that kidney will go on secreting, provided there is free escape for urine either through the ureter or through the lumbar wound. When, however, little kidney substance is left, the blockage of the opposite ureter may lead refiexly to arrest of secretion in both kidneys. At first the condition is simply one of obstruction to the exit of the urine from the kidney, but very soon the secretion of urine ceases. The symptoms differ in their mode of onset, and in their character, from those due to other forms of obstructive anuria—such as pressure on the ureter by a cancerous uterus. In most cases there is pain in the kidney on the affected side, but this usually subsides in a clay or two. Occasionally, there is no pain, and no history of a previous attack of renal colic, and thus it may be difficult to determine on which side the blockage has occurred. There is usually a constant desire to pass water, and the anuria may be partial or complete; in the former case, the small quantity of urine passed is of low specific gravity, and does not avert a fatal termination. When anuria occurs after an operation, the general condition is comparatively good, the mind is unaffected, and the pulse and temperature may be normal. The patient may even be able to take food, there may be no vomiting or nausea, and the tongue may be clean, and is often moist ; there is generally sleeplessness, but