590 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER more easy removal of the kidney, but also enables the surgeon to ascertain the presence or absence of enlarged glands or metastases. Trans-peritoneal abdominal nephrectomy.—The patient lies flat upon the back, and an incision about five inches in length is made, with its centre opposite the umbilicus, just internal to the linea semilunaris, on the affected side ; this incision can be enlarged upwards and downwards, as may be necessary. The anterior layer of the rectus sheath is incised in the line of the incision, the outer edge of the rectus pulled inwards towards the middle line, the posterior layer of the rectus sheath and the peritoneum opened throughout the whole length of the incision, and the intestines carefuUy packed over to the opposite side ; in this way the condition of the pedicle of the kidney and the glands in the neighbourhood may be ascertained before the operation is proceeded with. If it is found that the pedicle is not encroached upon by the growth and that the glands are unaffected, the colon is drawn inwards towards the middle line and the peritoneum outside it divided about an inch external to the bowel over the whole length of the kidney ; the peritoneum is then raised and pushed forwards, carrying with it the colon, until the pedicle is reached. The two edges of peritoneum may now be sewn together and the remainder of the operation performed extra- peritoneally. The surgeon isolates the pedicle and ties and divides the ureter in two places, securing the pedicle subsequently in the manner described on p. 568. The kidney can now be rapidly shelled out of its bed and removed. The surface of the pedicle is examined to see if the vessels have been properly controlled ; all bleeding is arrested and the abdominal wall is sutured in layers. Some surgeons prefer an entirely extra-peritoneal anterior operation making a curved incision with the convexity outwards beginning at the tip of the eleventh rib and ending near the anterior part of the crest of the ilium, the peritoneum and colon being turned forwards without opening the former. The advantage of this incision is that the kidney is reached directly, and there is not the difficulty in retracting the muscles that there often is in the other operation. Its disadvantages are, however, that the state of the pedicle of the kidney cannot be ascertained in the early stage, and after considerable dissection it may ultimately be found that the case is inoperable ; further, greater damage is done to the abdominal parietes than by the transperitoneal method described above. The prognosis of nephrectomy in these cases depends, firstly, on whether the tumour is primary or secondary; secondly, on the period at which the disease is operated on; thirdly, on the avoidance of infection of the cellular tissue with malignant disease during the operation ; and, fourthly, on the absence of glands or extension of the disease beyond the true kidney substance. Success may be looked for in favourable cases of primary disease if they are operated on early.