454 AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER renal pelvis. Tubercle bacilli may be the only organisms present, but pyogenic or other organisms are generally found also. Should careful microscopical examination after centrifugalisation fail to detect the tubercle bacillus, its presence may be ascertained by cultivation or by injecting the centrifugalised deposit into animals. There is often polyuria, and the urine may be either acid or alkaline. The disease progresses slowly, often with marked exacerbations, but in the end the patient dies from exhaustion owing to want of sleep, htemorrhage, or hectic fever, from uraemia, or from tuberculosis elsewhere. The diagnosis as a rule is not difficult in advanced cases, and the insidious onset of the disease and the presence of tubercle bacilU are important points. It must be borne in mind that many cases which were formerly diagnosed as early tuberculosis of the bladder are in reality cases of renal tuberculosis, the vesical symptoms being secondary to the disease in the kidney. The truth of this statement is borne out by the fact that in such cases removal of the kidney relieves the s5TTiptoms entirely. A cystoscopic examination will usually clear up the diagnosis (see Chap. L.). TREATMEISTT.-—The treatment may be medical or surgical, and depends greatly on the presence or absence of tubercle elsewhere, especially in the kidneys. Unfortunately, we do not know of any method that will certainly bring about a cure in any case, although much may be done to reheve the patient's distress. Non-operative treatment.—General treatment should be adopted in all cases. Good hygiene, nourishing diet, and a residence in the country or at the seaside are of the first importance, and moderate exercise is also advisable when the symptoms are not acute. The acuter symptoms may be relieved by hot saline baths, stimulating apphcations to the hypogastrium, and hot rectal enemata. Cod-liver oil should be given in large doses, and arsenic, creosote, or iodoform pills (half to one grain) are sometimes useful. The various urinary antiseptics (see p. 446) should be employed so as to diminish the associated sepsis, and sedative drugs, such as tincture of hyoscyamus and decoction of triticum repens, are also useful; morphine may be required if there is much strangury. Tuberculin (see Vol. I.) should also be employed. The local treatment consists in irrigating the bladder and introducing into it various drugs designed either to relieve the pain or to inhibit the growth of the tubercle bacillus. For the relief of pain, a 2 per cent, solution of novocaine or preparations of opium are employed, but care must be taken in using the latter because the bladder is ulcerated, and absorption readily occurs. On the whole, anodyne applications are better administered in the form of rectal suppositories. Much relief may be obtained by irrigating the bladder with hot solutions of boric acid, permanganate of potash, or weak sublimate (see p. 449) ; nitrate of silver, which is useful in other forms of cystitis, is almost always harmful in these cases. Iodoform and glycerine emulsion has been