256 AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX round the left side of the pulmonary artery, keeping as close to the heart as possible, and made to appear on the right near the aorta. A rubber tube is fixed to the head of this probe, which is withdrawn, leaving the tube in its path. The tube is used to compress the vessel, and the amount of compression can be varied from time to time, so as to allow the blood to pass when desired. The visceral layer of the pericardium should be freed from the artery, so that the final suture may be more readily performed. A longitudinal incision is now made through the coats of the artery, whilst the elastic compression is maintained, and a curved polypus-forceps is then introduced into the lumen of the vessel, and the embolus searched for in the main trunk and branches, seized with the forceps and withdrawn. By a special pair of forceps, apphed to the walls of the artery outside of and parallel to the incision in it, the incision is temporarily closed and the compression tube removed. The margins of the incision in the vessel project beyond the blades of the forceps and are now sutured with fine silk in a round needle. The clamp is removed and extra sutures are inserted where necessary. The incision in the pericardium is closed and also that in the pleura, and the flaps of the chest waU are replaced and sutured. It will be necessary to perform artificial respiration after the operation, and this should be continued for some time after the patient has commenced to breathe spontaneously, and oxygen should be given—if possible by intratracheal insufflation. There are two special points to be attended to in the operation : (i) not to maintain the interruption to the circulation too long; (2) to avoid sepsis. _ In the cases operated on up to the present, the removal of the thrombus has always been incomplete. REMOVAL OF THE THYMUS GLAND. Removal of the thymus gland has been carried out when it is enlarged, and causes by its pressure—especially in congestive attacks—dyspnoea and venous engorgement of the vessels in the neck. There is much diversity of opinion as to the normal size and weight of the thymus, and its exact functions are unknown ; it does not appear to be essential for the well-being of the body. It is known to be frequently enlarged in Graves's disease, but the relationship of the enlargement to the symptoms of that disease are obscure. It is also known that the thymus is enlarged in many of the cases spoken of as ' status lymphaticus.' The operation has most frequently been performed on young infants or children most of the patients have been between one and two years of age. The whole of the gland, or one lobe only, may be taken away