548 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER Suppurative nephritis, in which there is suppuration in the kidney itself, is not usually met with in practice apart from pyelonephritis; when it occurs alone, it is part of a general pyaemia. Occasionally, the surgeon may be called upon to deal with an abscess of the kidney resulting from the coalescence of isolated pyaemic foci. Pyonephrosis.—-Here there is suppuration in the pelvis of the kidney, which, in addition, may be dilated and converted into a bag of pus. This condition arises in connection with some obstruction to the escape of urine from the kidney. We shall only describe the most common conditions that the surgeon meets with—namely, suppurative pyelonephritis and pyonephrosis; should he be called upon to deal with a case of true suppurative pyelitis, the treatment will be directed to removing the cause. The organism met with in these cases is generally the colon bacillus ; sometimes the gono- coccus is the active agent, while in the more severe cases the ordinary pyogenic cocci or the typhoid bacillus may be present either alone or in combination with the colon bacillus. When the affection is due to the colon bacillus alone it is apparently not so acute as when the pyogenic organisms are also present. PYELONEPHRITIS. In the great majority of these cases the inflammation is secondary to disease in the lower part of the urinary tract. Thus it frequently occurs in connection with some long-standing obstruction to the escape of urine from the bladder—such as enlarged prostate or stricture of the urethra—accompanied by infection of the urine. Occasionally it may originate from obstructions higher up, such as a calculus or a stricture in the ureter. It may also supervene on paralysis of the bladder in cases of spinal disease or injury, and may follow the intro- duction of instruments into the bladder. It may also originate in the kidney itself by the deposit of organisms from the blood or the lymph stream or possibly by direct migration of bacteria from the colon or from an inflamed appendix lying over it. When the affection originates from below, one kidney alone—generally the right—is usually involved in the first instance, and in any case the condition is more advanced on one side than on the other. Before suppuration occurs there may be evident effects of backward pressure, such as distension of the ureter and the renal pelvis, and this diminishes the resisting power of the tissues to the micro-organisms, which gain access to the pelvis subsequently; it also facilitates the inflammation, as it keeps up congestion of the kidney. When this condition of affairs is present, it is obvious that the introduction of micro-organisms into the bladder by instruments is a source of grave danger. The pelvis of the kidney and the ureter are in a state of chronic inflammation with much thickening, and pus forms in their interior.