411 SIMPLE ENLARGEMENT the stream may suddenly stop, owing to the enlarged lobe falling over the orifice of the urethra. In other cases, again, difficulty in micturition gradually increases until ultimately there is complete retention, and this is partly due to the increasing size of the prostate and partly to the atrophy of the bladder walls ; under these circumstances, ' false incon- tinence ' of urine may occur—that is to say, retention with overflow. One of the most serious complications of prostatic enlargement is cystitis. A patient very seldom goes on to the end without the occurrence of cystitis. This is most commonly due to infection of the bladder in connection with the passage of instruments, but in some cases infection occurs even though no instruments have been used. In a healthy bladder, the introduction of a few micro-organisms along with an instrument seldom does harm unless the bacteria are very virulent, as they are simply washed out again ; in cases of enlarged prostate, however, with much residual urine and an unhealthy condition of the bladder walls, a single introduction of an imperfectly sterilised catheter will almost certainly lead to decomposition of the urine and cystitis. The gravity of this affection depends largely upon the nature of the organism which gives rise to it ; the most common is the colon bacillus. When the pyogenic organisms gain entrance, they may cause a very severe form of cystitis. Calculi, usually pliosphatic, may form in the post-prostatic pouch, and are a common and troublesome complication. Hcematuria is not uncommon in advanced cases, even when no instrument has been passed. When the amount of blood is small, it mixes with the urine and is passed without causing any trouble ; when, however, there is much haemorrhage, the blood may find its way into the bladder, where it clots and causes great distress. Other complications are urethritis and epididvniitis, which depend—to some extent, at any rate—upon injuries caused by instruments after the commencement of ' catheter-life.' LTrethritis, especially, is a very serious complication, as it renders the passage of a catheter painful and adds largely to the patient's sufferings. Prostatitis and prostatic abscess may also occur, and may be followed by urinary infiltration. We would here also point out that it is not very uncommon for carcinoma to be found in an enlarged prostate, and hence a microscopical examination should be made in every case after removal of the gland. TREATMENT.—This may be palliative or operative ; the former consists of various hygienic measures, the administration of drugs, and the use of catheters, whilst the latter aims at removing the obstruction. Choice of methods.—The determination as to whether any given case should be treated by palliative or operative measures is sometimes very difficult. In quite the early stages, when the symptoms are slight and intermittent, operative interference may quite well be deferred. When, on the other hand, the patient'sjife is a burden to him, and he suffers