214 AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX SYPHILIS OF THE RIBS OR STERNUM. This takes the form of gummata, and the upper part of the sternum is most frequently affected. When the disease affects the ribs, the first rib is the one usually attacked, near its junction with the sternum and the clavicle, and all three bones may be involved in the gummatous mass. As a rule it is not accompanied by any extensive necrosis. TRBATMBI^T.—In the early stages this is similar to that of gummata elsewhere (see Vol. I. p. 224), and the administration of salvarsan or iodide of potassium in combination with mercurial treatment often causes the gummata to disappear without the occurrence of any necrosis. When necrosis has occurred and an open wound is present which will not heal under anti-syphilitic treatment, it is well to remove the sequestrum and the diseased bone around in a manner similar to that for tuberculous disease (see p. 215). If this is done, and if the anti-syphilitic treatment is kept up, the wound generally heals readily. TUBERCULOSIS OF THE RIBS AND STERNUM. This affection is quite common, and is often set up by injury. It usually starts beneath the periosteum about the insertion of the inter- costal muscles, but it may begin as a deposit in the interior of the bone. These deposits are often multiple, and may occur at more than one spot in the same rib, or, more frequently, in several ribs one after the other. The most common seats of tuberculous disease of the ribs are either behind the posterior axillary line or at the junction of the costal cartilages either with the ribs or with the sternum. The sternum is also sometimes affected, generally at the junction of the manubrium with the gladiolus. The symptoms are generally very indefinite at first, and the patient often does not realise that anything is wrong until a swelling is accidentally found upon the chest. In the early stages, however, there may be ill- defined thoracic pain, followed after a time by an indefinite thickening over the affected area, which subsequently softens and gives rise to an abscess. When the ribs are affected, the abscess generally forms on the outer surface, but when it has attained any size it usually also spreads to the deeper aspect of the bone, and may lie not only between the rib and the superficial structures, but also between the rib and the pleura. This will give rise to an impulse in the tumour on coughing, and it is not uncommon for the case to be looked on as a locaUsed empyema finding its way through the intercostal space ; when the abscess implicates