437 RUPTURE all over the abdominal cavity, and the instrument can be passed right up to its hilt without experiencing any resistance ; it must, however, be borne in mind that it is possible to push the intact bladder before the instrument for a considerable distance, especially in children, in whom a sound can sometimes be passed on until its point is felt close to the umbilicus. Should there still be any doubt in the surgeon's mind, useful confirmatory evidence can be obtained by injecting fluid into the bladder and seeing how much returns. All the urine in the bladder is first drawn off, and a measured quantity—say, six ounces—of warm boric lotion is rapidly injected and then allowed to return into a measure. If there is a rupture of the bladder, the amount returned will be considerably less than that injected. Such a procedure should not be adopted, however, unless the patient is actually on the operating-table and ready for operation. TREATMENT.—In all cases, the rent in the bladder must be examined, and the best plan is to expose the anterior wall, as in supra-pubic cystotomy (see p. 474), before opening the peritoneum; the bladder should not be previously washed out, nor should any attempt be made to dis- tend it. If the rupture is extra-peritoneal, blood and urine will be found in the pre-vesical space, and the further procedures will depend upon the conditions found. Thus, a depressed fragment of bone may require removal, and this may have produced a small rent in the bladder, which can be closed by a few Lembert's sutures, or there may be a ragged opening extending in several directions, and possibly also into the peritoneal cavity. If the opening is very irregular and contused and the urine septic, or if the case is not seen immediately after the accident, it is well not to attempt to suture the bladder, but to drain it above the pubes (see p. 482). Under ordinary circumstances, however, if the patient is seen early, if the urine is aseptic, and if there is only a moderately lacerated wound, there is no objection to sewing up the rent as accurately as possible (see Fig. 120). The most important point is to provide for the free escape of urine and blood from the pre-vesical space, and therefore whatever may be done to the wound in the bladder, great care should always be taken to clean out and drain the pre-vesical area. If the rent is partly extra- and partly intra-peritoneal, the repair of the intra-peritoneal portion should be undertake'n first (see Fig. 121). As soon, therefore, as the clots and extravasated urine have been removed from the pre-vesical space, the peritoneal reflection above the bladder should be opened by a median vertical incision, the blood and urme sponged out of the recto-vesical space, and the intra-peritoneal tear closed in the manner described in the next paragraph. A drainage tube should be inserted, the rest of the peritoneum sewn up, and the extra-peritoneal wound dealt with on the lines just mentioned. Should the rupture be purely intra-peritoneal, the tissues in front