RENAL CALCULUS 565 clear, however, operation must not be delayed until the kidney becomes seriously damaged. (c) Operative.—When the symptoms point to the existence of a stone too large to pass down the ureter, surgical intervention should be undertaken in order to prevent disorganisation of the kidney. The choice lies between nephro-lithotomy and nephrectomy. Nephro-lithotomy is the ideal operation for all cases of stone, and it is only when the surgeon finds during the course of the operation that it will manifestly not meet the requirements of the case that nephrectomy should be resorted to. On the other hand, a disorganised kidney which is a mere abscess cavity devoid of renal structure clearly requires nepliredomy, as a nephro-lithotomy would probably give rise to a permanent fistula, and the patient would also run risks from sepsis. Nephrectomy must hkewise be done if the ureter is occluded and there is no chance of restoring its lumen ; these cases, however, are rare. For these conditions, the operation will be a primary nephrectomy, but a secondary nephrectomy may be called for when a permanent lumbar fistula is left after a nephro-lithotomy and the other kidney is evidently healthy; the patient will probably insist on the affected kidney being removed because of the serious inconvenience it causes. It is important that the nephrectomy should be a primary one if possible, as a secondary nephrectomy is generally very difficult and more dangerous than a primary one, owing to the dense adhesions. In all other cases, nephro-lithotomy is the operation of choice, and it must be the operation of necessity when the opposite kidney is known or suspected to contain calculi or is markedly diseased, in which case it is most important to restore one kidney to health as soon as possible. Nephro-lithotomy.—The preparation and position of the patient are the same as for nephropexy (see p. 519). It is well to have the radio- gram displayed close to the operating-table so that the results of the operation can be compared with the condition shown by the photograph. The incision commences just over the outer edge of the erector spins, runs parallel to and nearly an inch below the lower border of the last rib, and extends nearly to the level of the anterior superior iliac spine whence it can be prolonged downwards if a stone is present in the upper part of the ureter (see p. 572). It is well not to divide the muscles and soft parts too freely until the condition of the kidney has been ascertained ; the parts can be opened up afterwards as widely as may be necessary. Additional room is rarely required in these cases, but it may be wanted when nephrectomy is found to be necessary or when the patient is very fat, and it may be obtained by carrying a vertical incision upwards over the twelfth rib ; this, however, will not often be required if the costo- vertebral ligament is divided ; this ligament is derived from the anterior layer of the transversalis aponeurosis, and runs from the tips of the first and second lumbar transverse processes to the twelfth rib, or to the