RUPTURE OF THE STERNO-MASTOID MUSCLE 87 freed and the muscle is pulled well downwards or upwards as the case may be, and then the large trunks of the brachial plexus will be exposed. It may however be necessary to divide the clavicle if it is necessary to expose the lower part of the plexus. The nerves can then be traced up to their respective points of exit from the spine, the damaged portions identified, and suitable means adopted for the repair of the injury (see Vol. IL p. 116). The wound is closed without a drainage tube. The limb must be fixed to the side with the forearm flexed, care being taken that the plexus is not dragged on. Post-ansesthetic paralysis recovers without operative treatment. Galvanism and massage are the most effectual methods. Birth palsies should be treated from the earliest possible moment by bandaging the limb to the side, with the forearm flexed and supi- nated so as to relax the muscles. Massage should be applied daily. The electrical reactions should be tested at the end of three months under an antesthetic and they will show whether regeneration of the nerve has commenced or not. In a large proportion of cases spon- taneous recovery takes place ; if it does not, operation should be under- taken as soon as the general con- dition of the infant will permit, and a torn nerve sutured or cicatrical pressure relieved if possible. i- Of injury to the cervical plexus.— The cervical plexus may be exposed by an incision running for about three inches along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle from immediately below the mastoid process; the lower part of the incision must be carefully deepened so as to avoid damaging the posterior branch of the spinal accessory nerve. The lesser occipital nerve is seen as it winds round the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and the plexus can be exposed by defining and tracing it back, after separating and puhing the sterno-mastoid well forward. The cervical plexus scarcely ever requires to be exposed on account f>f injury, but the operation may be necessary for persistent neuralgia after injury. RUPTURE OF THE STERNO-MASTOID MUSCLE. Partial or complete rupture of this muscle is rare in adults, but is not uncommon in the newly-born, in whom a swelling is often found over the