TUBERCULOSIS OF THE RIBS AND STERNUM 215 the external surface of the rib only, there is no impulse on coughing. It is very important to remember that these abscesses may not point over the diseased area, but may make their way forward between the intercostal muscles for some distance before they turn outwards, and therefore, before operating, a careful examination must be made to find the thickened portion of the rib from which the abscess takes its origin. Abscesses occurring in connection with caries of the dorsal vertebrae may also travel forward between the ribs and point in a similar manner ; every chronic abscess pointing on the side of the thorax is not neces- sarily due to caries of the rib. The prognosis depends largely on the treatment adopted. The abscess, if left alone, wiU ultimately burst through the skin, and an intractable sinus leading down to carious bone will be left and fresh sinuses may form. When the sternum is affected, the abscess usually forms over the front of the bone ; when, however, the disease affects the lateral or posterior surface of the bone, the abscess passes forwards between the costal cartilages immediately to one side of the sternum. When a sinus is met with in this position, the posterior surface of the sternum must always be examined. TREATMENT.— Of tuberculous osteitis ot the ribs.—When the disease can be completely removed, the result is very satisfactory. Incomplete methods of treatment^—such as opening the abscess and scraping the bone—are of little value, and, although healing may occur in some cases, the results do not compare with those of the radical method which we advise. Occasionally, the abscess heals after opening it, scraping out the lining membrane, injecting iodoform and glycerine, and stitching up the wound (see Vol. I. p. 235), but it is not a method of treatment that we recommend. The best plan is to excise the abscess completely along with the affected area of the rib, and this is comparatively easily done if the abscess is not large. The sweUing is exposed by raising a suitable flap, and the wall of the abscess is carefully isolated from the surrounding soft parts without opening it until the area of bone from which it springs has been clearly defined. It is often found that, when the soft parts have been separated, it is possible to lift the abscess wall off the rib for some little distance, and that the area of bone from which it takes its origin is comparatively limited. The next step is to divide the periosteum at right angles to the long axis of the rib in front of and behind the limits of the abscess ; the periosteum is peeled back with a rugine all round the rib ; the rugine is left in place behind the rib so as to guard the pleura, and the rib is divided with cutting-phers beyond the abscess on both sides. It may then be possible to lift out the affected portion of the rib together with the unopened abscess, but usually the pus extends behind the