INJURIES TO THE THORACIC CONTENTS V. p needle pushed into the thorax midway between two ribs. The patient should be told not to breathe deeply, and the aspirating-bottle should not be used ; it is enough to allow the fluid blood to flow out, and no more should be withdrawn than is necessary to relieve the pressure. It is better to repeat the tapping than to take away too much blood at one time ; drainage of the pleural cavity should not be employed. Pyo-ihorax will follow haemo-thorax if infection of the extravasated blood occurs. Its treatment will be similar to that of empyema (see p. 220). Pneumo-thonix may complicate the haemo-thorax—the condition being then known as pneiimo-hcemo-thorax—or there may be very little blood effused and so much air that the term pneumo-thorax alone suffices to indicate the state of matters. This condition may also occur as the result of other injuries than contusions of the chest. It is common after fracture of the ribs and penetrating wounds of the chest ; in these cases the lung collapses, and air passes into the pleural cavity from the lung at every inspiration, and if the opening is valvular, the air does not escape on expiration. Pneumo-thorax may also occur in connection ■with rupture of tuberculous cavities and some diseases of the abdominal viscera. The affected side of the thorax is more or less immovable, the heart may be displaced, and in severe cases the intercostal spaces may bulge considerably. There is a tj^npanitic note on percussion, and the breath- sounds are distant or absent. As a rule, suppuration does not occur when there is no external wound, because the air is apparently filtered in the smaller bronchi before it reaches the pleura; suppuration, however, is not at all infrequent when the pneumo-thorax is caused by a penetrating wound of the chest. The pneumo-thorax usually disappears spontaneously unless it is due to an external wound or to an extensive rupture of the lung, and nothing need be done provided that no great dyspnoea is occasioned. When, however, the pressure symptoms are marked, or when the air is not rapidly absorbed, the pleural cavity should be punctured with a trochar and canula and some of the air let out. The very strictest precautions must be taken to secure asepsis, otherwise an empyema will result. If the air rapidly reaccumulates, showing that a large bronchiole is damaged, an opening should be made into the thorax, and a canula provided with a valve of rubber tissue at its outer end inserted. INJURIES OF THE PERICARDIUM. These are necessarily very serious. Injury to the pericardium rarely occurs alone, as the heart and great vessels are usually implicated, and then death may be due to hfemorrhage or shock or both. When the