158 AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK for a time, and allow it to heal by granulation. The patient is fed by an oesophageal tube for a long time. The mortality after this operation is a good deal higher than after the other on account of the septic wound and also of the risk of the pus running into the trachea ; there is constant dribbling through the opening into the pharynx, swallowing is difficult, and the only advantage is the presence of the speaking-apparatus ; this, however, can be fitted in the other case if desired [vide supra). Formerly, removal of one half of the larynx was advised in cases in which the cancer was limited to one side, but the operation seems quite unsuitable for various reasons. It has been found that a good many of the cases in which this operation was recommended can be successfully dealt with by thyrotomy and local removal, while in others removal of one half the box of the larynx is not sufficient. Further, it is the most dangerous of all these operations because a direct communication is left between the pharynx and trachea and it is almost impossible to prevent the pus running down the latter. Lastly, the contraction of the wound narrows the breathing-space considerably. Of extrinsic laryngeal cancer.—Here the conditions are quite different because the disease is no longer limited to the interior of the larynx, but has spread to neighbouring parts—the pharynx, epiglottis, and cervical glands. The result is that a much more extensive operation is required. In aU cases complete laryngectomy is necessary, but in addition to that, portions of the pharynx must be taken away, and extensive dissection is required for the removal of diseased glands in the neck. The operation is a very severe one and the mortality is great. The chances of non-recurrence are extremely small; in the great majority of cases immediate recurrence takes place. Further, the condition of the patient after these operations is pitiable in the extreme; a great gap is often left in the situation of the pharynx, the patient has to be fed through an oesophageal opening, and breathes through the upper end of the trachea. As a surgical feat, a case which recovers may appear re- markable for a short time, but as a method of treating the patient these operations are as a rule useless and inadvisable. It is only in a very few cases in which the extension to the pharynx is very limited and the glandular infection slight that operation need be considered ; in most cases the patient is much better off with a simple tracheotomy. The operative procedures cannot be described, as they must vary with the distribution of the disease, but they consist in complete laryngectomy as described above and removal of portions of the pharynx (see Vol. IV. p. 155) along with extensive removal of glands. Palliative.—Should the patient decline operation or should the case be unsuitable, palliative measures must be adopted. These consist in the administration of suitable food, the relief of pain, and the performance of tracheotomy as soon as dyspnoea occurs. The pain and dysphagia may be relieved by the insufflation of orthoform. This powder