AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER 460 SPASMODIC RETENTION, OR STAMMERING BLADDER. Here the sphincter vesicae is at fault rather than the walls of the bladder, and there is difficulty in commencing the act, which may be spasmodically interrupted when once begun; in bad cases there may be retention. The mildest form is the difficulty experienced by many persons in micturating in the presence of others. The condition is usually due to some irritation of the prostatic urethra, and injury and gonorrhoea are the most frequent causes. It may also be met with in connection with constipation and prolapse of the rectum. TREATMENT.—The best plan is to pass a large well-warmed instrument, and to keep up gentle pressure when the point becomes arrested ; this will gradually overcome the spasm, and the instrument will slip into the bladder, and should be left there for five or ten minutes at each sitting. This should be repeated daily so that the sphincter gradually becomes accustomed to relax, and the spasmodic condition passes off. Any existing lesion in the prostatic urethra should receive proper attention (see Chap. XXXVII.). PARALYSIS OF THE BLADDER. This may vary much in degree, and may affect either the bladder walls or the sphincter or both. When the sphincter is intact and the bladder only slightly affected, the organ is incompletely emptied, and the urine flows somewhat slowly, and is passed best in the erect position. There is nearly always some residual urine. Paralysis of the bladder may occur in connection with disease or injury of the brain or spinal cord, with prostatic hypertrophy, after prolonged retention of urine, or in old age. The urine simply trickles out without any force, although the patient may try hard to expel it, and there is a sensation of having imperfectly emptied the organ ; micturition is very difficult or even impossible in the recumbent position. TREATMENT.—In the simpler cases, massage to the supra-pubic region, douches to the perineum, and the use of salt baths are of advantage. The patient should be instructed to empty his bladder as frequently as possible ; mild diuretics may be administered, and ergot is a valuable drug. Electricity is often extremely useful; the continuous current is best, but a faradaic current may be employed. One pole is inserted into the rectum or apphed over the loin, whilst the other is introduced into the bladder as a specially insulated sound. When the paralysis mainly affects the sphincter, the current should be applied directly to