346 AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA fingers, while, if it is situated lower down in the neighbourhood of the triangular ligament, pressure over it causes a sharp cutting pain. It is always weU to bear in mind that painful micturition followed by urethritis, without any obvious cause, occurring either in children or in elderly subjects, is very likely to be due to this condition, and by passing the largest-sized sound that the urethra will admit, a calculus can generally be detected. In passing a sound for diagnostic purposes, it is important not to use force, otherwise the stone may become more firmly impacted, or laceration of the mucous membrane may be caused ; the stone may also be driven backwards into some less accessible portion of the urethra. TREATMENT.—It is essential to remove the foreign body as soon as possible, either by extracting it through the orifice of the urethra, or by an external incision. Urethritis, retention of urine, urethral abscess, and extravasation of urine may follow if the foreign body is allowed to remain. The exact steps of the treatment are determined by the size, nature, shape, and situation of the body; and the cases met with in practice may be divided into two primary groups—namely : (i) foreign bodies in the penile urethra, which in turn may be divided into {a) those in which the foreign body is smooth and unimpacted and (6) those in which the body is rough, pointed, or impacted ; (2) foreign bodies in the deep urethra. I. Of a foreign body in the penile urethra.—(a) When the body is smooth and unimpacted, and especially when it is a stone, a useful plan is to direct the patient to compress the lips of the meatus firmly between the finger and thumb and then to attempt to micturate. The pressure is kept up for a few moments vmtil the urethra becomes distended by the urine and then, if the pressure is suddenly relaxed, the foreign body may be swept forcibly out from the distended urethra along with the urine. This manoeuvre may be facilitated if it is carried out when the patient is sitting in a hot hip-bath. Should it fail, one of the following methods must be adopted. When the foreign body is lodged in the fossa navicularis it is only neces- sary to slit the orifice downwards sufficiently to enable the body to be squeezed or drawn out with forceps ; the small incision heals without special treatment. When the foreign body is lying farther down the penile portion, it should be withdrawn if possible along the urethra. The urethral mucous membrane should be anaesthetised by means of a 4 per cent, solution of novocaine, and a urethroscopic tube (see Chap. XXXV.) passed down to the situation of the foreign body, after taking the precaution to compress the urethra immediately behind the latter in order to prevent the foreign body being driven deeper down. The urethroscope enables the surgeon to see the size, shape, and situation of the body, and it may even be possible, when the object is small, to sHp the end of the tube