AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 342 sutures should be of the finest absorbable catgut, and, although theo- retically they should not include the mucous membrane, it is practically impossible to avoid doing this, and it is not really a matter of much importance. It may, however, be impossible to identify the proximal end of the urethra in this manner, especially when some days have elapsed between the date of injury and the operation. Under these circumstances, a supra-pubic cystotomy should be performed (see p. 473), and an instru- ment passed from the bladder down through the urethra so that its point emerges in the wound from the torn end of the proximal portion, which is thus identified. A probe is then passed from the perineal wound into the bladder along the instniment; the latter is withdrawn, and the surgeon insinuates a catheter from the meatus into the bladder in the manner described above. If this should fail, a procedure that we have tried with success may be adopted. A silk thread is tied tightly around the end of the instrament that has been passed from the cystotomy wound through the neck of the bladder, and the other end of the thread is passed through the eye of the catheter which is inserted through the penile portion'of the urethra. The instrument is then withdrawn from the bladder through the supra-pubic opening, carrying with it the silk thread. Traction on the thread will then pull the catheter in the penile urethra towards the bladder, and gentle manipulations of its point will generally enable it to pass along the proximal portion of the urethra into that organ. The subsequent steps for the repair of the urethra are the same as before. Should the urethra be only partially divided, the rent may be re- paired accurately with fine catgut, and then the outlook is good ; little stricture, if any, is likely to result. If it should be impossible to stitch the ends of the urethra together, as sometimes happens, the catheter must be tied in for some days and the wound allowed to heal by granulation. The simplest method of tying a catheter into the bladder is to wrap a narrow piece of strapping around the catheter about half an inch in front of the meatus, leaving an end long on each side. The instrument is then covered with boric lint between the strapping and the meatus, and the lint is made to cover the glans penis, over which the prepuce is pulled orward, and then the ends of the strapping are applied on each side of the penis and kept in position by a narrow strip wound horizontally around the organ behind the corona. Care must be taken not to fasten this circular strip too tightly ; should it cause any inconvenience, the tension can be overcome by slitting it up on the dorsum. Another plan is to fasten the catheter by means of four threads (see Fig. 91) to loops of tape passed round the thighs and secured to an abdominal bandage. When a catheter is tied in, it is very essential that its point should not project too far into the bladder. The best way to ascertain the proper