490 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER and base of the bladder below the level of the obliterated hypogastric artery. Before it reaches the bladder it comes into relation with the vas deferens, which passes between it and the side of the bladder, and it enters the bladder wall immediately in front of the upper end of the vesicula seminalis. In the female, the pelvic portion of the ureter may also be looked on as consisting of two parts—an upper and a lower. The upper part passes, as in the male, from' the brim of the pelvis downwards and backwards on the lateral wall to a point about an inch in front of the ischial spine. The second part runs forwards and inwards on the upper surface of the levator ani muscle and beneath the base of the broad ligament. It is accompanied by a dense plexus of veins from the lower part of the uterine and the upper part of the vaginal plexuses. It passes below the uterine artery, crossing the side of the cervix uteri and above and in front of the lateral fornix of the vagina ; it enters the base of the bladder in the undistended state at a point three-quarters of an inch from the middle line and a quarter of an inch below the anterior fornix. In the bladder in both sexes its course is obliquely downwards and inwards for about three-quarters of an inch, and it lies nearer the inner than the outer surface of the bladder, the muscular coat being posterior to it throughout nearly its whole length. The vesical orifice is slit-like, with its long axis directed backwards and outwards; it is frequently situated on the summit of a small elevation from three-quarters to one inch distant from its fellow and about the same distance from the orifice of the urethra. Between the orifices, an elevation is seen on the inner surface of the bladder formed partly by a band of the longitudinal muscular fibres of the ureter and partly by the muscular fibres of the bladder. This ridge forms the base of the trigone. The arteries which supply the ureter are branches of the renal, the spermatic or ovarian, and the vesical arteries, and they anastomose freely in the wall of the ureter. The lymphatics are numerous, and the lower ones terminate in the ihac, and the upper ones in the lumbar, glands. The nerves are derived from the renal, the spermatic or ovarian, and the vesica] plexuses.