HYPOSPADIAS 325 and in the third, a fresh urethra must be formed, extending from this orifice to the end of tlie glans. It is impossible, in any but the most trivial cases, to perform the whole operation at one time, and at least three operations will be necessary. Smaller operations may also be subsequently required to remedy failures in any particular sitUdtion. The treatment takes a long time, and it is well to allow a considerable interval to elapse between each stage ; hence it is hardly safe to reckon on finishing with a case of hypospadias under a year at least. In operating, several points must be borne in mind. In the first place the superficial tissues are lax, and hence it is possible to perform a plastic operation of a kind which would be impos- sible in dealing with more rigid tissues. A second point is that in these cases the prepuce is repre- sented by a large hooded flap of tissue on the dorsum of the penis which is chiefly vascularised by one or more vessels which enter it near the middle line. A third point is that union is apt to be interfered with by the constant passage of urine over the wound, and hence it is necessary to provide for the adequate nutrition of the flaps by every possible means. Fig. 77. — Urethro- plasty FOR Hypospadias. Formation of a bullon-hole tn the preputial hood. The hole has been made and the sutures are being inserted. (Edmunds.) A B Fig. 78.—Urethroplasty for Hypospadias. A, Straightening the penis. The remains of the corpus spongiosum are dissected out by means of the incision, c, right down to the opening of the uretlira, d. The prepuce is divided by the incision, b, from the button-hole, a. B, The penis straightened. The end of the urethra, b, is now free, and lies at the lower end of the groove, a, the skin at the sides of which are undercut in the direction of the dotted lines. The dotted line, c, is the incision preliminary to forming the roof of the new urethra. [Edmunds.) Urethroplasty.—A large number of operations have been described, but for the majority of cases the following method devised by Mr. A. Edmunds {Lancet, 1913, vol. i. p. 447) will be found satisfactory. The operation is performed in three stages. First stage.—The first step consists in making an incision through