432 AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER area (see Fig. Ii6). In doing this, great care must be taken to avoid injury to the ureters, as these pass much more forward than in the normal individual. They may run along the brim of the true pelvis almost to the attachment of the ligament which represents the symphysis. The ureters should not be cleanly dissected out, but enough tissue should be left to provide for their vascular supply. The sigmoid loop of the pelvic colon is then brought out on to the abdominal wall, the peritoneal cavity packed off, and a clamp applied to the loop of bowel (see Fig. 117). A longitudinal incision is now made into the bowel nearly correspond- ing in length to the strip of mucous membrane containing the two ureteral orifices, and this strip is implanted into the rectum; a double row of sutures is used, the deeper one uniting the mucous membrane of the bladder to that of the intestine, whilst the superficial one brings together the muscular coats of the bowel and the bladder. If possible, the ureters are then embedded in the wall of the bowel by a row of Lembert's sutures, and the peritoneum tucked back behind the colon. A drainage tube is then passed down to the bottom of the pelvis, and the wound packed with gauze, one or two stitches being passed between the ligamentous symphysis and tied after the gauze is removed (see Fig. 118). This operation has been done extra-peritoneally by Peters, of Toronto [British Medical Journal, June 22, 1901), but we do not think any real advantage is to be gained by it. There is really less risk of serious sepsis when the peritoneal cavity is opened than when the pelvic cellular tissue is widely opened up. The number and variety of the operations proposed for this condition are in themselves evidence that surgical opinion is very unsettled as to the best method of dealing with these cases. We are inclined to favour the transperitoneal method of transplantation of the ureters rather than a plastic operation, but it must be confessed that the mortality is high. Fig. iig.—Ectopia Vesica. Diagram to show the relationship of the parts in anastomosis of the ureters to the pelvic colon. PATENCY OF THE URACHUS. This condition is much rarer than that of extroversion, and in it the urine generally escapes through the umbilicus. The rest of the urinary apparatus may be normal. The patient has practically a ciitaneous urinary fistula.