383 ORGANIC STRICTURE and a soluble bougie, containing iodoform, pushed down to the region of the incision and left there. It is well not to tie in a catheter as this is apt to set up urethritis, from which septic absorption may occur. There is no difficulty whatever in keeping the stricture from contracting if the urethra has been well dilated at the time of the operation and if metal bougies are passed subsequently from time to time. When the patient requires to micturate he may do so spontaneously ; there is generally some scalding during the act, and it is well therefore to place him in a hot hip-bath or, if he is neurotic, to inject 20 minims of a 4 per cent, solution of novocaine down the urethra before the act. A full-sized metal bougie should be passed at the end of twenty-four to thirty-six hours, care being taken to keep the point well in contact with the roof of the urethra ; this should be repeated every few days for two or three weeks and then at longer intervals for two or three months. The patient need only be confined to bed for three or four days, and during that period should take one of the urinary antiseptics internally (see p. 354). There are practically no accidents which are likely to follow this simple operation. Haemorrhage is rare, and is easily controlled by an ice-bag to the perineum ; in severe cases a Leiter's tube may be coiled round the penis. It would appear that in many cases there is little tendency for the stricture to contract after division in this manner, but after three months an instrument should be passed monthly for the following six months, and then the patient should visit the surgeon two or three times a year in order to see that there is no recurrence. In favourable cases the periods may be lengthened after about two years, but it is always well for the surgeon to pass an instrument, at any rate, every twelve or eighteen months as a precautionary measure. External urethrotomy.—Although internal urethotomy is of great value in a large number of cases, there are some for which it is not suitable. Thus, when tlie surgeon fails to introduce an instrument through a tight stricture, the only possible procedure is to divide the stricture through an external incision. Apart from these rare cases, however, there are others in which external urethrotomy shoidd be resorted to, such as dense cartilaginous strictures in the vicinity of the bulb in which the stricture is tortuous and which will not yield to dilatation, extensive traumatic strictures, some cases of stricture with retention of urine, and most of those accompanied by perineal fistulae. Cases accompanied by severe cystitis or by extravasation of urine also require this operation. At the present time the two forms of external urethrotomy most often practised in England are Syme's and Wheelhouse's. Of these, Syme's is the easier, but it can only be clone when an instrument can be passed through the stricture and the latter dilated up to the calibre of 3 or 4 English. This is the operation that should be chosen for all cases requiring external uretluotomy, in which these requirements can