AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK io6 cases for such treatment are soft goitres in young people. Tlie patient should, if possible, migrate from a district where goitre is frequent ; if it is impossible to do so, all drinking-water should be boiled and filtered and the purity of the water as regards contamination should be ensured. Chief amongst the internal remedies are iodine and iodide of potassium, and distinct improvement may follow moderate doses of these drugs; the treatment should commence with 3-grain doses of the iodide and 3-minim doses of the tincture three times a day, and need seldom be increased beyond 10 or 15 grains and minims respectively. Thyroid extract has been administered on the presumption that it would insure physio- logical rest to the gland, and in some cases it is extremely useful. It should be given in small doses at first, and its effect on the pulse carefully watched. If improvement takes place, it will be evident in three or four weeks, and the treatment should be continued ; if no improvement is evident in that time, this line of treatment should be abandoned. Other internal remedies are not very satisfactory. In very anaemic patients arsenic and iron may be of some value, but as a rule they have not much influence upon the affection. Quite recently treatment by vaccines of organisms of the colon group obtained from the faeces of the patient has been advocated, but it is too early to speak definitely of the value of this method. Various methods of local treatment are employed. In India the red iodide of mercury ointment is rubbed in thoroughly over the goitre, and the neck is then exposed for some hours to the rays of a hot sun ; it is stated that very great improvement has been obtained in this way, but unfortunately the method is quite useless in this country. We have not seen any benefit follow the use of other external applications. (b) Operative.—The only reliaWe method of cure is to remove the portion of the gland that is causing the trouble. In the early days of operation upon the thyroid the entire gland was removed, but it was soon found that many of the patients so operated upon suffered from a peculiar disease which was subsequently recognised as surgical myxoedema and which was evidently due to the removal of the gland. It was then found that all that was necessary to prevent this occurrence was to leave a portion of the gland behind. In most cases therefore the operation should be limited to the removal of one lobe (or a part of it) and the isthmus. If this is done, there is no danger of myxoedema, and, whDe the operation removes the pressure on the trachea, considerable atrophy of the remaining portion occurs, so that no deformity remains. The dangers of the operation mainly consist in those attaching to the administration of the antesthetic. A certain amount of risk no doubt is run from bleeding or from the entry of air into the veins, but these dangers should not be encountered if the operation is properly performed. The bleeding is practically a negligible quantity if the operation is done methodically in the manner described below. Formerly, no doubt, very