goItre 115 cases large tumours may be present and only cause disfigurement. When the adenoma is deeply placed in the lower part of the gland, behind the sternum, and the pressure is in the antero-posterior direction, there is often interference with deglutition and respiration. Multiple adeno- mata may be associated with general enlargement of the whole gland, in addition to that due to the presence of the tumours ; such cases are often called adeno-parenchymatous goitres. Other simple tumours are stated to occur in the thyroid gland, l)ut are very rare. Cysts of the tJiyroid are also common, and are definiteh^ encapsuled and usually multiple. The cystic condition is usually a cystic trans- formation of previously existing adenomata, so that we may speak of thyroid adenomata as being in some cases solid, in others cystic. When the cyst has reached a large size very little remains of the original adenomatous tissue may be left. Both the adenomata and cysts are liable to degenerative changes. Deposition of lime salts is very common, and may cause the tumour to have a hard, irregular surface suggesting mahgnant disease. Haemorrhage into the substance of the tumour also occurs, and leads to a rapid and often sudden increase in size, with severe pressure symptoms, especially dyspnoea. Echinococcus cysts are also met with in the thyroid and closely resemble ordinary adenomatous cysts. Instances have been recorded in which the cyst has ruptured into the trachea and caused a fatal result. We need not describe these further as their characters and treatment are practically those of the ordinary cystic adenoma. TREATMENT.—This is purely surgical, and the operations for the removal of cysts and adenomata are identical. The thyroid gland is exposed in the manner already described for thyroidectomy (see p. 108), and the tumour, as a rule, is found towards the surface of the gland with little true thyroid tissue intervening between it and the capsule. The capsule of the gland and any thyroid tissue beneath it are divided over the tumour at a point where the vessels are least abundant, and are then separated until the true capsule of the latter is reached, when the adenoma or cyst is shelled out of its bed with a blunt dissector, aided by the finger. The tumour itself is usually of a greyish or bluish white tint which contrasts with the red colour of the normal thyroid tissue. The swelling should be taken out whole, with its capsule intact; as soon as a little separation of the anterior surface has been effected by the instrument, the finger is passed in and swept round the tumour so as to detach the rest. There is as a rule little bleeding; a few vessels at the bottom of the cavity from which the tumour has been i"emoved being all that require ligature. These swellings are often multiple, and therefore after one has been removed the rest of the gland should be carefully examined for others ; any present are enucleated by boring down to their capsule through the I 2