AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER 430 of the operation, the patient being meanwhile placed in an apparatus so arranged that pressure is applied over each side of the ilium and the great trochanters, so as to push the innominate bones inwards. This diminishes the defect in the anterior abdominal wall very greatly; the prolapsed mucous membrane recedes and a deep furrow is left, over which the soft parts can be brought together without great tension. In about a fortnight's time, the second stage is proceeded with by making an incision at the point of junction of the skin with the mucous membrane all around the defect in the bladder, and dissecting up the Fig. 117.—Plastic Operation for Ectopia Vesicae. Third stage. The bladder is cut away, except that portion immediately around the ureters. These latter are freed for about an inch and a half, a considerable amount of tissue being left around them in order to preserve their vascular supply. A coil of pelvic colon is brought out and clamped. The muscular coat of the bowel is then incised, without dividing the mucous membrane, and sutured to the muscular wall of the bladder. The deeper parts of the wound are carefully packed off. The mucous membrane of the colon is then incised, and the suture completed. mucous membrane from the peritoneum for a short distance. Care is necessary in doing this, as there is little tissue between the peritoneum and the mucous membrane, and the former may easily be wounded. The edges of the mucous membrane, which should then come together readily, are united by a continuous catgut suture, and it only remains to undermine the skin all round with a few sweeps of the knife and unite the raw edges with silkworm-gut sutures in the middle line. The operation for the cure of the epispadias should be deferred to a later period, and should preferably be that recommended by Thiersch (see p. 333). Transplantation of the ureters.—The ureters may be transplanted into the vagina, the pelvic colon, or the upper part of the rectum, and the vesical mucous membrane completely removed. It is best to