569 RENAL CALCULUS which tears across the renal vein or even tears it away from the vena cava. Occasionally, it may be clue to division of these structures by the knife or scissors, while sometimes the hgature on the pedicle may slip or may not be tight enough, and the wound at once fills with blood so that it is impossible to see its source. As the hemorrhage comes from the pedicle or its neighbourhood, the hand should be thrust into the wound immediately in all cases, and the pedicle of the kidney seized firmly, whilst the fingers may also compress the aorta and vena cava. This allows the blood to be sponged away, when the bleeding vessels can be seen and secured. The most dangerous haemorrhage, however, comes from a lateral slit in the vena cava, most commonly produced by detaching the renal vein from it. If the orifice is small, it may be seized in forceps and a lateral ligature applied. Should that fail to hold, the best plan is to have the vein compressed above and below by an assistant's fingers or some flat instrument, and then to suture the slit with a fine continuous catgut stitch. Failing this, the only thing is temporary plugging of the wound or leaving a pair of pressure-forceps on the vessel for forty-eight hours. Opinions differ as to the best method of dealing with the divided end of the ureter. Unless there is reason to suspect sepsis in the wound, it is unnecessary to do anything to it. When suppuration is present and there is therefore every prospect of sepsis, this plan is unsatisfactory, as the ligature may give rise to a sinus, and it is therefore better to bring the end of the ureter into the lower angle of the wound and stitch it there with silkworm-gut, which can be removed in four days, by which time the ureter will have become adherent. It may be impossible to tie off the pedicle in the manner described above, and then the best plan is to apply a temporary ligature close to the kidney and remove the latter, leaving a portion of renal tissue attached to the pedicle. It may then be possible to apply a second ligature sufficiently far back to allow this portion of the pelvis of the kidney to be removed ; but if this cannot be done, the stump should be swabbed with undiluted carbolic acid and the hgature left long, with its ends hanging out of the wound, in case suppuration and separation of the ligature should occur. Should no suppuration occur, the ligature may be cut short, as deep down in the wound as possible, and the tissues allowed to close over it. This plan will obviate those troublesome sinuses, some- times lasting for years, which so frequently follow the removal of a suppurating kidney when the ends of the ligature on the stump of the kidney are cut short. Occasionally, the adhesions are so dense and the pedicle of the kidney is so short that it is impossible to free the organ sufficiently to remove it in the ordinary fashion, and a modified operation, sometimes called a snb-capsulav nephrectomv. has to be performed. In order to do this, the proper capsule of the kidney is freely divided and the organ is