3o6 AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS which the testicle is freed from the dartos, and it and the hernia are reduced, and the incision in the scrotum is sewn up. A small drainage tube should be put into the lower part of the wound for forty-eight hours in case the mass has not been rendered aseptic. Anti-syphilitic treatment should be continued. If the hernia is so large that it cannot be reduced in this manner, the surface should be shaved off and, after the bleeding has stopped, dusted with the calomel and starch powder. NEW GROWTHS. Tumours of the testis are rare, and are generally either carcinomata— which originate in connection with the tubuli seminiferi—or sarcomata of the round-celled or, more rarely, the spindle-celled variety. Sarcoma of the testicle is apt to undergo cystic degeneration, and the term ' cysto-sarcoma ' has been applied to some of these tumours. Malignant tumours of the testicle are very virulent. Sarcomata occur principally in young children, whilst carcinomata are most often met with between thirty and fifty years of age. As a rule the tumours, with the exception of the spindle-celled sarcomata, grow rapidly. At first they distend the tunica albuginea, and the form of the testis is retained; but this is soon destroyed, and irregular bosses of unequal consistence, and often fluctuating in parts, are formed. The disease spreads up along the cord, which becomes thickened, usually at a later stage than in inflammatory affections, and the lumbar glands are early affected both by carcinoma and sarcoma. The chances of cure by operation are slight. In the early stages the diagnosis from a syphilitic testicle may be difficult, but the rapid growth of the tumour, its irregular outline and general characters, and the absence of marked hydrocele, soon settle the question. The tunica vaginalis becomes adherent to the testis, and the tissues outside it are then invaded. In untreated cases, death usually occurs within a year of the time when the tumour was first noticed. Simple tumours of the testis are comparatively rare. The testis is one of the situations in which deposits of cartilage occur independently of bone-formation, and in some cases it is possible that these nodules of cartilage are true non-malignant chondromata, but in many cases they appear to be sarcomatous in nature, although, perhaps, not so malignant as the other forms of sarcoma. They grow somewhat slowly and are hard and nodular. In fibro-cystic disease of the testis there is considerable enlargement of the organ. The tumour is usually noticed for the first time in early adult life, it is smooth or slightly nodular, painless, and not tender, and varies in its rate of growth within fairly wide limits. When the organ is removed, it is found to consist of a number of small cysts scattered in