CALCULUS 475 upper part of the bladder does not project downwards as it does if the patient is lying flat, and if the prostatic pouch is very large, an assistant should push the base of the bladder forwards by means of a finger in the rectum. In some cases the calculus is too large to extract through the ordinary incision, and then the latter must be extended or the stone must be broken up. Obviously, there are objections against enlarging the opening into the bladder beyond reasonable limits, and it is better to split up a very large stone. This may be done either by a powerful lithotrite, or by a hammer and chisel, the fragments being removed separately afterwards. Aftey-treatment.—If the urine is aseptic, the incision in the bladder may be sutured completely, as after rupture of that viscus (see p. 437), and the after-treatment is similar. If the urine is septic, the wound is treated as in tuberculous disease (see p. 455) and the bladder drained for about ten days. If there is any delay in the closure of the supra-pubic wound, a catheter should be tied in per unihram. The removal of an encysted stone may be very difficult, even when the supra-pubic opening is large. When the communication between the pouch and the bladder is comparatively wide, it may be possible to dilate the opening and insinuate a scoop around the stone, and shell it out. If this cannot be done, the stone may first be fractured in siiu, the stone being supported by an assistant's finger in the rectum. After all the fragments have been removed from the pouch, the bladder should be forcibly flushed out with boric lotion so as to ensure that no grit is left behind, otherwise a fresh stone may form. When the prostate is much enlarged, it may be removed at the time of the operation for stone (see Chap. XXXIX.). If, however, the urine is foul and the patient not m a condition to stand the severe operation, supra- pubic drainage should be employed until the urine is healthy and the patient's strength is re-established, when the wound may be enlarged and the prostate enucleated. Unless the enlarged prostate is removed, a permanent supra-pubic fistula is very likely to remain, whilst fresh phosphatic stones will form in the prostatic pouch. Perineal lithotomy.—This is a very rare operation nowadays, although formerly it was the only one employed. Almost the only cases in which perineal lithotomy is now used are those in which there is a stricture of the urethra, when a Syme's external urethrotomy may be combined with a median lithoiomy. The operation may also be useful for calculi impacted in the urethra and for prostatic stone ; it is simple, there is little bleeding, and little damage need be done to the soft parts if the stone is small. The patient is fully anfesthetised, the parts are shaved and disinfected, and a suitable staff with a median groove is passed into the bladder, any stricture being, if necessary, dilated beforehand. The patient is then secured in the lithotomy position and the staff is held by an assistant, who pulls^its concavity well up against the arch of the