AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER 502 The normal ureter takes a great variety of appearances, which can only be learned by constant practice in cystoscopy. On watching the ureter, the ridge to its outer side is seen to thicken, and then the part of the ridge on each side of the ureter becomes drawn up and rigid. The ureteric orifice gapes, and emits a jet of fluid. In the normal state, this is clear and is only seen as a swirl of fluid at the orifice and across the trigone. The number of ureteric contractions varies. Usually, a con- traction occurs once in about eight or ten seconds, but, under the influence of the light, or for other reasons, it may occur only at intervals of one or two minutes, or even longer in quite healthy individuals. When there is polyuria or some cause for irritation in the ureter, the contraction may be rapidly repeated with increased vigour. The posterior or postero-superior wall, the lateral walls, and the anterior wall of the bladder, are then examined in turn. The mucous membrane has a yellowish sandy colour, and in the normal state is light-reflecting. In the fully distended bladder, a slight ridging may be observed from the prominence of muscular bands, but this is never marked in the normal bladder. In a partly distended bladder, the mucous membrane is thrown into folds and appears darker in colour. Occasionally, a peculiar honeycomb appearance is presented by the mucosa of the partly distended bladder. The blood-vessels are few in number, and appear at irregular intervals through the mucous membrane and split up into fine twigs. Larger vessels in the deeper layer of the mucous membrane are frequently seen as ill-defined blue tracks. At the highest part of the bladder, an air-bubble, introduced by the catheter, is invariably seen. It serves to mark the apex of the bladder. In order to see the upper part of the bladder clearly, the instrument is pushed in and the eyepiece depressed. The parts of the bladder which are most difficult to examine are the posterior wall near the apex and the anterior wall, the latter appearing somewhat in perspective, as it rises almost vertically from the urethral orifice. Pulsation may be observed in the lateral walls or base, and is especially evident when a tumour is present in the interior of the bladder. It is due to the close proximity of the internal iliac artery. Vermicular waves ma}^ be seen sweeping across the postero-superior wall, and are due to peristaltic movements of intestine in the recto-vesical pouch in the male or above the uterus in the female. After examining the bladder, the cystoscope is withdrawn a little, so that the window is partly in the urethra. The mucous membrane at the internal meatus is thus examined ; it forms a dufl-red curtain occupying part of the field, and becomes more translucent as the edge is approached. The urethral margin is slightly concave, except when the window of the cystoscope looks directly backwards ; it then has a slight convexity.