512 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER indigo-carmine is dissolved in water, and injected hypodermically. The urine becomes tinged in ten or twelve minutes, and rapidly becomes green and then blue, the highest point of excretion being reached half or three-quarters of an hour after injection. Excretion continues in small quantities for about twelve hours. About 25 per cent, of the drug is excreted by the kidneys. The quantity is usually roughly estimated by the eye, but the percentage may be obtained by means of a colorimeter. Delay in the appearance, and a feeble staining of the urine, are signs of disease. EXAMINATION OF THE URINE OF THE SECOND KIDNEY. The urine is collected for two or two and a half hours, and sufficient quantity is usually obtained during this time. Should the flow from the catheter cease, the lumen may be gently syringed with about half a dram of warm boric lotion, by means of a ureteric catheter syringe (see Fig. 137). A cup of hot tea or other diuretic maj' also be given. If there is pain from the presence of the catheter, it will be relieved by a hot fomentation applied to the abdomen. When sufficient urine has collected, the catheters are withdrawn, and the patient given a dose of uro- tropin and a tumbler of hot Contrexeville water. The patient should remain in bed for twenty-four or thirty- six hours after the examination. The specimen is examined as follows :— The quantity, specific gravity, and a quantitative estimation of the urea are made, and a microscopical examination of the centrifugalised deposit. The total quantity of sugar is estimated if the phloridzin test is used, and the percentage of phenol- sulphone phthalein, or of indigo-carmine, if these tests have been employed. Finally, a bacteriological test is made, and the urine is examined for tubercle bacilli, guinea-pigs being injected if necessary. Fig. 137.—Syringe for use with a Ureteric Catheter. PYELOGRAPHY. This consists in the introduction into the renal pelvis of a fluid opaque to the X-rays, and obtaining a radiogram. By this means the size and outline of the renal pelvis and calyces are demonstrated. The method is of use in detecting hydronephrosis in the early stage before the kidney has been destroyed, and thus enabling the surgeon to