500 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER tested. The patient either lies on a couch with a sand-pillow beneath the pelvis or sits in a special chair with the knees and hips flexed and the thighs widely apart, or may be placed in the lithotomy position. A general anaesthetic is very rarely required ; it may be necessary when the bladder and urethra are intensely sensitive; or the patient is highly nervous, or in young unmarried women. Local anaesthesia should be produced in males, but it is unnecessary in the short female urethra. The urethra is anaesthetised by instilling 15 or 20 minims of a 4 per cent, novocaine solution or i per cent, cocaine solution, or by a combination of alypin and suprarenin (tablets of alypin, |grain; suprarenin boric, 2 minims of a I in 1,000 solution). The fluid is introduced into the prostatic urethra by means of a Guyon catheter and syringe, or it is placed in the anterior urethra with a glass pipette and rubber teat and massaged back into the prostatic portion. When the bladder is very irritable, washing with a solution of antipyrin (5 per cent.) may soothe it. After allowing time for the anaesthetic to take effect; the catheter portion of the irrigating cystoscope, well lubricated with glycerine, is passed, and the bladder emptied by inserting the hollow plug which opens the valve at the end of the tube. If the urine is clear, 8 or 10 ounces of warm boric lotion are intro- duced by means of a bladder syringe or from an irrigator. I prefer a bladder syringe, as with it the exact amount that has been introduced into the bladder may be readily measured and the amount of intra- vesical pressure can be gauged. The best syringes are made of glass, with an asbestos or a metal plunger, and hold from 4 to 8 ounces of fluid. The fluid should be slightly above bod}' temperature, and is introduced slowly. Spasm of the bladder may be caused by rapid introduction or too cold fluid. In cystitis, the capacity of the bladder is reduced and, if the cystitis is acute, the viscus may not hold more than one or two ounces. Sometimes a general anaesthetic may be required on account of the extreme sensitiveness of the bladder. A little more fluid can be introduced, but the bladder reflex is not abolished under general anaesthesia; and there is a quickening and deepening of respiration when a sensitive inflamed bladder is distended to its fuU capacity, which may amount only to a few ounces. If the urine is cloudy with pus and debris or blood, the bladder must be washed by repeated syringefuls of fluid, and the surgeon is not content until the fluid is absolutely clear when examined in a glass vessel against the light. If there is difficulty in obtaining a clear medium, a double-way metal catheter, which is supplied with the cystoscope, should be used—one of the arms being connected with an irrigator, while the other allows the fluid to escape into a vessel. Care should be taken, when the patient is unconscious, that the intake of fluid into the bladder does not exceed