CANCER OF THE LARYNX 157 membrane than is absolutely necessary, as it is often difficult to close the opening without stenosis of the pharynx. The question now arises as to the best way of dealing with the large gap left after removal of the larynx. Two methods may be adopted : one being to close the pharynx completely and the other to leave a portion open for the subsequent reception of a speaking-apparatus. When it is decided to close the opening into the pharynx this is best done by approximating the mucous membrane of the anterior wall of the pharynx to the base of the tongue, thus making the deep line of sutures transverse. In the first instance the mucous membrane is brought together by a continuous catgut suture, the edges being turned in so as to apply the raw surfaces to each other. Over this the muscular and fascial structures are brought together vertically by a continuous catgut stitch, and finally the skin is sutured vertically. It is well to insert a small drainage tube through a separate button-hole opening on each side, the tubes running transversely beneath the skin on a lower level than that of the transverse suture in the pharynx, so that, should the opening in the pharynx give way, the discharge may not accumulate beneath the skin-flaps and give rise to suppuration. If pus forms beneath the flaps it is very diflicult to prevent it from running into the trachea. Gauze dressings are applied so as to exercise a certain amount of pressure on the skin-flaps above the opening of the trachea and thus keep them in contact with the deeper parts. After-treatment.—It is well to employ rectal feeding for the first two or three days, and then the patient may be fed by a tube passed through the nose and—pi-eferably—left in for two or three days, or passed on each occasion. If the union holds, the patient may try to swallow in about a week ; if not, feeding by a tube must be continued until the wound has healed. If an opening persists, the patient can close it by packing, or by some apparatus, when he wants to swallow. No tracheotomy tube is necessary. The result of this operation is very satisfactory in many respects and the mortality is slight. When the opening has completely closed, the patient can swallow comfortably and breathe freely through the trachea, and with a little practice he can learn to whisper sufficiently to make himself understood. Some patients, however, become very depressed on account of the loss of voice ; but if this is the case, it is possible to establish an opening into the pharynx after the wound has healed and fit a speaking-apparatus between it and the trachea. If, however, that is done, the patient may be worried with dribbling of saliva through the opening, and with difficult.y in swallowing, and it is a question whether this condition or the absence of a satisfactory voice is the more disagreeable. In the other operation the opening in the pharynx is only partially closed, space being left for the adjustment of a speaking-apparatus. Here it is best to leave the rest of the wound open, pack it with gauze