AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST drainage-tube opening after the tube has been removed is especially to be condemned. The stitches of relaxation are removed in about a week, but the continuous skin suture may be left a few days longer, as there is generally a good deal of tension on it. It is a mistake to remove the stitches simply because they are cutting through the skin, and their premature removal may lead to extensive separation of the edges of the wound. Slight necrosis may occur at the point of insertion of the deep stitches, but this is not of any moment provided that the principles of wound treatment laid down in Vol. I. are rigidly adhered to. While the wound is healing, the arm must be kept at right angles to the thorax, and even when the patient is allowed to leave her bed it should be supported in this position by pillows and cushions. If this is not done, the arm is apt to become bound to the side by the cicatrix. When healing is complete the patient should be encouraged to use the arm so as to prevent stiffness and to regain muscular power. The complete removal of the lymphatic vessels from the axilla may lead to swelling of the arm, which must not be confounded with that produced by blockage of these vessels by extensive malignant disease. This swelling usually comes on a few weeks after the operation as the deeper part of the cicatrix becomes dense. At first the swelling is due to a fluid oedema which can be massaged away, but later on there is frequently a certain amount of true hyperplasia. The swelling can be kept under control to a certain extent by massage and elastic bandages, but a permanent enlargement of the arm will often remain, which does not, however, materially affect the utility of the limb. For this condition, Sampson Handley's operation of lymphangioplasty may be employed (see Vol. II. p. 33). Although the permanent value of this plan seems doubtful, it is worth a trial in the early stage of a swollen arm after these operations ; when, however, the condition has lasted for some time and true hyperplasia has taken place, the result is not likely to be satisfactory. For a good many years, we have advised repeated coui'ses of X-ray treatment over the part operated on, the first course beginning about six weeks after the operation, the applications being made about every third day for three weeks ; four courses a year are given for the first two years. It is very difficult to decide what value is to be attached to this plan, because we very seldom have local recurrences after the operation described above, even when X-rays are not employed, but we have had several advanced cases in which recurrences seemed very likely to take place, in which these X-ray courses have been employed and in which there has been no recurrence. It seems probable that small groups of cancer-cells which may have been left behind might be destroyed by the application of X-rays soon after a complete operation, and therefore it seems a reasonable precaution to take. Of late, the suggestion has been made that a tube of radium should