AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER 584 When the valve has been divided in this way, the mucous membrane of the pelvis and the ureter are closely united by fine interrupted absorbable catgut sutures, and it is well to put one or two Lembert sutures outside, at the lower angle of the incision, so as to make sure that no leakage occurs. The opening in the pelvis of the kidney is closed by Lembert's sutures, and it is always well to fix the kidney to the loin in the usual manner (see p. 521) so as to prevent subsequent kinking of the ureter. If the cause of the hydronephrosis is an abnormal branch of the renal artery, the vessel should be divided between two ligatures and the effect upon the renal circulation noted. If a large portion of the kidney is thus deprived of its blood-supply, nephrectomy will be called for. If these methods fail, nephrectomy will have to be considered. If the condition is unilateral, and if the patient insists on it, there is no objection to nephrectomj^ provided the other kidney is healthy and active. The only alternatives are either to drain the hydronephrosis through the loin or to attempt to dilate the ureter with bougies ; the latter method is very difficult and uncertain. When there is an obstruction loiei doivn in the ureter this portion of the tube may be exposed (see p. 572) and an attempt made—by means of anastomosis after excision of the stricture—to restore its lumen, or the ureter may be divided above the stricture, its lower end closed, and its upper one implanted into the large intestine. When the obstruction is quite low down, the upper end of the divided ureter may be implanted into the fundus of the bladder. If these methods fail, nephrectomy will be necessary. INTERMITTENT HYDRONEPHROSIS. This is an important condition, in which there is intermittent dilatation of the pelvis and calyces of the kidney as the result of some temporary obstruction, which is relieved from time to time. The patient may have intervals during which he is quite well and the kidney appears normal, and then, apparently without any cause, there is violent pain in the loin, sometimes accompanied by vomiting and gradually increasing distress, and a distinct swelling can be made out in the renal region. This swelling is often tender, and may go on increasing for two or three days, when it may gradually or even suddenly disappear. Accompanying the formation of the swelling, there is a diminution in the amount of urine secreted, and there may be increased frequency of micturition and sometimes hsematuria. When the distension passes off, especially if it does so suddenly, there is an increased flow of urine of low specific gravity ; the intervals between the attacks vary. Patients suffering from this condition are usually the subjects of a movable kidney, sometimes to a very marked degree.