138 AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK to excite coughing occasionally by tickling the interior of the trachea with a feather introduced through the tube. These feathers should be boiled first so as to disinfect them, as otherwise they may introduce septic material, and they should be kept in boric lotion, which is squeezed out before the feather is introduced into the trachea. Unless an obstruc- tion occurs which cannot be remedied by removal of the inner tube, the outer tube should be left in position for the first twenty-four or thirty-six hours, after which it should be removed once or twice a day and cleaned. A fresh tube should always be at hand and introduced immediately on the removal of the old one ; the latter should then be thoroughly cleaned in cold water, boiled, and kept in boric lotion until required. A pair of dilators should always be at hand in case the tube is accidentally coughed out and cannot be easily replaced. The insertion of the dilators will keep the passage open until a fresh tube is inserted. The subsequent management of the tube varies according to the condition for which the opera- tion has been done. The point of chief importance is the time at which it can be left out alto- gether. It is obvious that this should be done as soon as it is safe, as it causes a considerable f -i amount of irritation. When the •^CZ?* tracheotomy is done for laryngeal stenosis, or for cancer in which no radical operation can be per- formed, the tube must be retained permanently, but in other cases it is merely a temporary expedient. When the tracheotomy has been done for the removal of a foreign body which has been successfully extracted, the tube should only be kept in for a few hours. It should not be removed at once, otherwise emphysema is likely to occur as the result of the falling together of the edges of the wound and the imperfect escape of air ; after a few hours the tissue spaces become sufficiently glazed to render that improbable. In diphtheria, especially in children, the tube should not be kept in longer than is absolutely necessary, otherwise there may be great difficulty in leaving it out, for children rapidly lose the habit of breathing through the larynx; moreover, granulations may form in the upper part of the trachea and cause more or less complete blockage. The factor that will mainly influence the question of the removal of the tube in these cases is the amount and character of the discharge coughed up. As long as membrane and thick mucus are being expelled, the silver instrument must be Fig. 34.—MoRRANT Baker's Rubber Tracheotomy Tube. There is neither introducer nor inner tube to this.