28o AFFECTIONS OF THE SCROTUM from vessels which have been left unsecured in operations upon the scrotum ; it may also be found in newly born infants after a bad breech- presentation, and these cases are particularly important, as in them the soft parts are liable to slough. The only difficulty in the diagnosis is to make sure that there is no haematocele of the tunica vaginalis. In scrotal hsematocele the testicle, if it can be felt, moves independently of the swelling. TREATMENT.—The patient should be put to bed with the scrotum supported on a small firm pillow or on the apparatus recommended for acute epididymitis (see Fig. 71). Lead and opium lotion should be applied, but an ice-bag should not be used unless bleeding is actively going on, as sloughing of the delicate scrotal tissues is liable to occur as a result of the cold. Should it be necessary to use cold, a double fold of lint should be interposed between the scrotum and the ice-bag. When the effusion has become stationary, the scrotum may be en- veloped in wool, outside which an elastic suspensory bandage is applied. The swelling often takes several weeks to disappear entirely, especiallj'' if the blood is actually within the tunica vaginalis ; should absorption be slow, recovery may be hastened by opening the collection of blood, turning out the clots, and inserting a drainage tube. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. ECZEMA SCROTI. This may be merely part of a general eczema or may be set up by some direct irritation, for example, by parasites or by dribbling of urine, such as occurs in children with phimosis or stone, or in adults with stricture or enlarged prostate. The condition is common in gouty and diabetic subjects. TREATMENT.—Any local cause must be remedied if present. When the parts are very irritable and weep freely, the patient should be kept in bed with the scrotum supported (see Fig. 71) and cold lotio plumbi continuously applied until the acute symptoms have subsided. The lotion may be iced if necessary, but opium should not be added lest dangerous absorption should occur from the raw surface. After the acute symptoms have subsided, the use of diachylon or 20 per cent, ichthyol ointment or Lassar's paste is indicated, or dusting- powders composed of equal parts of oxide of zinc and starch, or of two parts of oxide of zinc, one of boric acid, and two of starch may be used. The insomnia, which is often troublesome in these cases, may be met by the administration of a draught containing syrap of chloral (3j), Hq- morph. hydrochlor. (n\x), and bromide of potassium (gr. xx). Should this fail, recourse may be had to a suppository containing half a grain of morphine with a quarter of a grain of extract of belladonna. When