CHANCROID OR SOFT SORE 267 explain the rapidly spreading ulceration that so often occurs after these abscesses have burst or have been opened. TREATMENT.—When we bear in mind the serious results that may follow chancroids, and the length of time that the patient may be laid up and unable to follow his occupation, it is evidently important to endeavour to cut short the disease at as early a stage as possible. (a) Local.—As soon as the diagnosis is made (and the chief point is to distinguish chancroid from herpes prseputialis on the one hand, and from syphilis on the other), an attempt should be made to destroy the sore by caustics, of which the best is probably nitric acid. Care must be taken at the same time to prevent fresh infection of the surface, and for this reason it is necessary that the whole area should be completely exposed. When there is no phimosis.—When the prepuce is not oedematous and can be readily retracted, it should be pulled back and the whole exposed surface washed with i in 20 carbolic lotion and subsequently with I in 2000 sublimate solution, especial attention being paid to the cleansing of the sulcus behind the corona glandis. The sores are then dried and a 10 per cent, solution of cocaine is applied to their surfaces. After a few minutes this is wiped off, and then the nitric acid is lightly applied by means of a glass rod or brush, or, failing that, a small piece of wood—such as a match. Great care must be taken not to let the acid run over the neighbouring mucous membrane. After allowing the acid to soak into the tissues for two or three minutes, it is neutralised by plunging the end of the penis into a saturated solution of carbonate of soda until effervescence ceases. The area should then be washed with warm sub- limate solution, and moist boric lint laid over the glans ; the prepuce is pulled forward over the lint so as to keep it in position, and the penis placed in a bag of boric lint. The prepuce should be retracted three or four times daily, the parts bathed with warm i in 2000 sublimate solution, the boric lint removed, and a fresh piece applied. As the sores heal, the lint need not be changed so often. When gi^anulation is complete, the lint naay be used dry until healing has occurred. The same treatment should be adopted when the sores are situated on the glans penis. When there is phimosis.—When the prepuce is oedematous and cannot be retracted, there should be no hesitation in slitting it up so as to get free access to the sores. An anaesthetic is administered, and the parts beneath the prepuce are syringed out with warm i in 2000 sublimate solution. The prepuce is then slit up along the middle line upon its dorsal surface by introducing one blade of a pair of blunt-pointed scissors between it and the glans. The exposed parts are washed and cauterised in the manner just described. Gangrenous sores should be treated in the same manner, and if portions of the sore show signs of fresh infection as the slough separates, they should again be destroyed. If the gangrene is extensive and spreading rapidly, the actual cautery is better