AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 352 The first symptom complained of is irritation or itching about the meatus, the hps of which become stuck together by a glairy discharge. This is quickly followed by scalding pain on micturition and a profuse discharge of thick yellowish pus ; the lips of the meatus become intensely red and swollen, and painful nocturnal erections are often present. Micturition is unduly frequent, at first probably from reflex irritation rather than extension of the inflammation to the bladder. The acute symptoms subside in from ten days to three weeks, the discharge becoming thinner and more watery in character until it either disappears entirely or remains as a mucoid discharge known as gleet (see p. 358). When posterior urethritis sets in acutely during the early stage, there is usually a diminution in the amount of discharge and a feeling of distension and burning in the perineum with markedly increased frequency of micturition ; there may be also a few drops of blood with the last drops of urine, caused by spasmodic contraction of the compressor urethrae upon the inflamed membranous urethra. Erections now occur frequently and may last for some time ; they are more or less painful according to the condition of the corpus spongiosum. If the urine is passed into two glasses, both portions will be cloudy and will contain shreds of mucus and pus ; this is most marked in the first portion. During the chronic period, the discharge is most noticeable in the morning on separating the lips of the meatus and squeezing the urethra, when a drop of viscid or even purulent discharge wiU be expelled. In the intervals between micturition the discharge dries up over the meatus so that the lips stick together, and this is especially the case in the morning when a considerable time has elapsed since the last act of micturition. TREATMENT.—This must be considered in reference to the various stages, and will be divided into : the treatment at the com- mencement of the attack ; during the acute stage ; during the stage of decline ; and the treatment of gleet. Treatment at the commencement of the attack.—Here the question of abortive treatment presents itself, and many plans have been adopted with a varying amount of success. It is obvious that any attempt at true abortive treatment—that is to say, the destruction of the bacteria—must be carried out before they have had time to penetrate the mucous membrane ; once they are growing in the substance of the mucous membrane, no antiseptic will reach them. Attempts are some- times made to abort the disease by injections of strong solutions of nitrate of silver (i in 1000 to i in 500, or less) or of protargol. While these methods may sometimes succeed, they often fail, and the disease is then aggravated. We have given up the use of local antiseptics at this stage, but the early administration of copaiba often diminishes the severity of the subsequent inflammation. Treatment during the acute stage.—The treatment must be