546 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER The diagnosis is often difficult in the early stages, and the affection may be mistaken for hip disease, lumbago, spinal disease, empyema, or pneumonia. If, however, the possibility of peri-nephric suppuration is borne in mind, a careful examination of the symptoms given above will generally enable a correct diagnosis to be arrived at. It is more difficult to say whether the abscess has arisen primarily outside the kidney or whether it is secondary to renal disease. The points in favour of a diagnosis of primary peri-nephric suppuration will be chiefly negative, such as the absence of changes in the urine or other signs of renal mischief, while the diagnosis is greatly strengthened by a history of injury or exposure, or a previous history of appendicitis. TREATMENT.—^This will vary with the period at which the case is seen. For the first few days after the commencement of symptoms the case must be treated as for the early stages of inflammation. The patient should be kept at rest on his back with the knee on the affected side flexed over a pillow. Sahne aperients and, if necessary, enemata, should be given every day in order to empty the colon. Morphine may be administered if the pain is severe ; tincture of aconite and vinum antimoniale may also be given. In the early stages, an ice-bag or Leiter's tubes may be used, but frequently hot fomentations give more relief than the application of cold. Should the acute symptoms persist for five or six days, it may be assumed that suppuration has taken place, and an exploratory incision should be made without delay. Some surgeons puncture the loin in the first instance in order to ascertain if pus is present, but we cannot recommend this, as the needle may do damage or may fail to find pus that is actually present, and so may delay the necessary incision. The incision should be made about half an inch below the lower border of the twelfth rib, commencing close to the edge of the erector spinse, and running outwards and downwards for three inches. This incision, which is similar to that for nephro-Hthotomy, should always be adopted, as the surgeon can never be sure that he may not have to deal with a stone in the kidney. It need not be so free as the ordinary nephro-lithotomy incision in the first instance, as it can be enlarged sulssequently if necessary. The soft parts are divided until the transversalis fascia has been opened, when the finger is introduced and the peri-nephric tissues are palpated in order to locate the chief sweUing, and the finger or a pair of sinus forceps may then be pushed into it and the abscess cavity opened up. When the pus begins to flow, a drainage tube is inserted and the patient is turned over almost on to the back so as to allow the pus to escape. After most of the pus has been evacuated, the linger is passed into the abscess cavity to detect and open up any loculi which may be present, and to ascertcdn if there is a communication between the abscess cavity and the interior of the kidney. The latter object is best attained by