FOREIGN BODIES IN THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA 129 can be extracted. As soon as the foreign body has been removed, the laryngotomy tube may be taken out and the wound aUowed to heal. No stitches should be inserted, otherwise emphysema will very probably occur. FOREIGN BODIES IN THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA Foreign bodies may enter the laiynx as the result of sudden inspira- tion during swallowing, such as is caused by laughing or talking whilst eating. In other cases the material may come from the stomach, as for example during vomiting when a patient is drunk or under an anaesthetic. Artificial teeth are the most common foreign bodies in adults ; buttons, sweets, fruit-stones, and small toys in children. A large foreign body may completely obstruct respiration and give rise to such urgent dyspnoea as to call for immediate tracheotomy, the removal of the foreign body being carried out subsequently. In less complete cases its impaction in the larynx excites sudden pain, violent cough and fits of choking, accompanied by intense terror. A fatal result may ensue not only when the body is large enough to block the larynx completely, but even when it is small ; in the latter case it is the result of the acute spasm to which it gives rise. Should the spasm not be immediately fatal, it subsides after a time, although the body may remain in the air-passages ; it may then produce very few symptoms, of which the chief are slight cough and a sense of discomfort. As long, however, as the foreign body remains in the air-passages there is constant danger of spasm of the glottis should it alter its position. A smooth, rounded body lodged in the ventricle of the larynx may give rise to no symptoms after the initial convulsive attack has passed off, but a sudden suffocative attack should always excite the suspicion of the presence of a foreign body, especially in children, even when no definite history can be obtained. If the body is sharp, it may cause hfemorrhagc, and the blood in the air-passages may then set up severe dyspnoea. In other cases inllammatory swelling of the mucous membrane occurs after a few days and is accompanied by increasing dyspnoea. In other cases again, a small body—such as a button or a fruit-stone— may pass into the trachea and remain freely movable there, or it may be drawn down and impacted in one of the bronchi—usually the right, the opening of which is larger and in a more direct line with the trachea than is that of the left. When a movable body is present in the trachea, the patient can breathe fairly freely after the first spasm has passed off, as long as he remains quiet, although respiration is usually noisy and rattling. As soon, however, as he exerts himself or coughs, the foreign body is driven up against the glottis and sets up fresh spasm. The condition is not common, however, because if the body is small enough to V. K