326 AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA the whole thickness of the prepuce so as to form a sort of button-hole, the edges of which are then stitched (see Fig. 77) in much the same way as a tailor finishes off a button-hole in a coat ; this incision is made about the centre of the prepuce and close to its reflection from the penis. The object is to divide the dorsal vessels of the prepuce and lead to the formation of a number of smaller vessels which will vascularise the prepuce from the sides. The wound thus made is allowed to heal and the resulting cicatrix to soften before the second stage is commenced ; about three months should be allowed to elapse between these two stages. Second stage.—An incision is made from the middle of the button-hole to the free border of the prepuce (see Fig. 78, A) dividing the whole thick- ness of the prepuce and form- ing two irregular flaps (see Fig. 78, B). A second incision is then made along each side of the urethral groove, beginning behind on each side of the orifice of the urethra, and these are joined in front by another in the glans around the point where the meatus would normally be situated, the whole forming a long inverted U-shaped cut around the urethral groove (see Fig. 78). The opening of the urethra is often constricted or bounded by a thin fold of mucous membrane, and should also be divided by a short vertical incision. The incisions along the urethral groove are now deepened so as to dissect up this structure completely ; this is best done by a series of short cuts, made obliquely as shown in Fig. 78, B. When this has been carried out the penis will be straight, and there will be a broad raw surface on its under aspect, at the scrotal end of which is the detached urethral groove with the opening of the urethra at its lower part ; this groove does not remain as an elongated flap, but contracts into a very small mass (see Fig. 79). An incision is now made on each side of the inner surface of the preputial flaps, starting from the anterior portion of the raw area and passing round the corona and about a millimetre distant from this structure, until the middle of the preputial flap is reached ; the direction of the incision is then altered, and it is carried along the long axis of Fig. 79.—Urethroplasty for Hypospadias. Forma- on of the roof of the new urethra. This figure shows how the skin is undercut in order to get the edges together. The penis is held straight by means of the suture, a, and the sutures, 4", b', b, are inserted through the skin edges and the raw surface on the ventral mesial aspect of the penis. The preputial flaps, c, c', have been split. [Edmunds.)