AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER Sir W. Watson Cheyne, Lancet, 1909, vol. i. p. 1155. accurately from behind, and especially of fixing its upper end, the follow- ing operation has been devised and has proved very satisfactory :— ^ The patient Hes on the back with a small pillow under the loin on the affected side, projecting it sHghtly forward. An incision is then made parallel to the costal margin and about an inch below it (see Fig. 141). This incision commences at the outer edge of the rectus muscle, and is carried outwards parallel to the costal margin to the edge of the latissimus dorsi, or to a point where—looking down on the patient—the anterior surface of the abdomen ends. The skin, fascia, and external obhque muscle are divided; the fibres of the internal oblique and trans- versalis muscles are partly sep- arated and partly cut across where necessary, and any nerves crossing the area can, as a rule, be pulled out of the way. The transversalis fascia is then seen, but should not be divided ; it is separated from the posterior wall of the abdomen and pushed for- ward along with the kidney and the peritoneum. The edges of the wound being well retracted, and the fascia and peritoneum being held well forward, the kidney can then be readily felt in the anterior wall of the wound, and is fixed by the assistant's hand placed on the front of the abdomen. An incision is then made in the peri-renal fascia over the posterior part of the kidney, and the renal fat at once protrudes. This incision is enlarged, and the peri-renal fat and fascia are stripped outwards and the fat in part removed. The posterior surface of the kidney is now exposed (see Fig. 142) and the organ shelled out of the fascial capsule and brought out of the wound. The posterior wall of the abdomen is cleared of its fat until the diaphragm, the psoas, and the quadratus lumborum muscles are fully exposed. The kidney is then turned forwards, and incisions are made through the capsule on the posterior surface in the manner shown in Fig. 143—namely, a vertical incision running upwards near the inner side of the posterior surface to the upper edge of the kidney, curving forwards at its upper end, and a transverse incision curved somewhat downwards Fig. 141.—^The Incision for Anterior Nephro- pexy. The continuous line is that required for operating on the kidney alone; the dotted part the extension required for exploration of the abdomen. ■ See ' Movable Kidney, with details of an Operation for fixing the Kidney, by