AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST 170 hard masses may be fe]t throughout the breast. The glands in the axilla may become enlarged. The onset of the disease is often very insidious. One or more irregular swellings appear and increase fairly rapidly ; they soften in the centre, and ultimately chronic abscesses and sinuses form. These sinuses have no tendency to heal, and the skin around becomes under- mined in the manner characteristic of a tuberculous ulcer. The condition is serious because it may lead to destruction of the breast, and if the patient has a child, the milk may convey the tubercle bacilli to the infant. Before the formation of sinuses has occurred, it is not always easy to diagnose a tuberculous mass from scirrhus or from a patch of simple mastitis. It is therefore advisable in these cases to have a rapid section of the mass made at the time of the operation before proceeding to amputate the breast. TREATMENT.—If the condition occurs during the child-bearing period, the best plan is to excise the entire breast when it is widely affected, as it must always be a source of danger to the children, and any- thing short of excision at this period of life rarely suffices to effect a cure. In older patients and when the disease is limited to a comparatively small area of the gland, it may be justifiable either to excise that segment of the organ or, if the patient objects strongly to such a procedure, to open up the sinuses thoroughly, scrape them freely and pack them with gauze for a time. SYPHILIS. Syphihs may be met with in the breast in all stages of the disease. A chancre on the nipple is not uncommon as the result of nursing a syphilitic child. It is a point of interest that, with rare exceptions, a syphilitic infant does not infect its own mother, although the latter may never at any time have displayed signs of syphilis, whilst a healthy wet-nurse will at once become infected. Chancres of the nipple are usually readily recognised by the size of the sore and the induration of the base, together with the early enlargement of the axillary glands. Condylomata are not uncommon on the breast in secondary syphilis and occur either about the nipple or the areola or, when the breast is very pendulous, in the fold of skin below it. Gummata have also been found in the tertiary stage, but they are rare. TREATMENT. — The treatment of syphihs in the breast is similar to that for the disease elsewhere (see Vol. I. Chap. XL).