CYSTIC HYGROMA 89 denseness of the former ; but the diffuse lipoma possesses no capsule and it is very difficult to make sure that all has been taken away. The encapsuled variety of lipoma is shelled out as in other situations, and recurrence should not take place. Other tumours, such as fibroma, myxoma and sarcoma, occur in the neck. Cysts are also met with, and the most common, the branchiogenic cyst, is described on p. 6g ; enlarged bursse about the hyoid bone are referred to on p. 125. Cysts of the thyroid or an accessory thyroid are described in Chap. IX. Cysts containing air are sometimes found; they are usually diverticula from the pharynx, in which the opening is too small to admit food but allows the entry of air, so that the pharyngeal pouch becomes distended and forms a tympanitic swelling in the neck which is easily emptied on pressure. The treatment is the same as for a pharyngeal diverticulum (see Vol. IV. p. 120). Dermoid cysts sometimes occur in the middle line in connection with imperfect fusion of the two sides of the neck. CYSTIC HYGROMA. This is a lymphangioma undergoing cystic dilatation and is always congenital. The tumour is a lobulated multilocular mass, often of great size and fluctuating in parts ; there are frequently a number of cysts which are shut off from ea.ch other. It is situated beneath the deep cervical fascia, most frequently in the submaxillary region or the lower part of the posterior triangle. The lymphatic vessels in the vicinity are usually dilated. TREATMENT.—The treatment formerly recommended—namely, injection of iodine into the cysts, is of little use when the tumour is multi- locular, as it generally is. On the other hand, incision into the lymphangio- matous mass often leads to an acute attack of inflammation which, if septic, may be fatal. Even with the greatest care, bacteria may get into the wound and, although they would do no harm in the ordinary tissues, they may develop in the lymphatic spaces and cause serious inflammation. Therefore, unless the tumour is increasing rapidly or is causing serious symptoms, it is well not to interfere, especiaUy in young children in whom restlessness renders it difficult to keep on efficient dressings. If possible, the tumour should be left alone until the patient has grown up. In operating for the removal of the tumour, care should be taken to carry the dissection well beyond it in all directions, so as not to leave any of the dilated lymphatics behind. No special rules can be given for these operations. They are often exceedingly tedious and difficult, as the mass spreads between various important structures in the neck and adheres to them. A drainage tube should be inserted after the operation and left in for some days, as there is always a quantity of lymph and serum exuded into the wound.