348 AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA the corpus spongiosum and the urethra in the middle line ; the edges of the incision are retracted and the foreign body is removed. Should the body be a long one, such as a piece of slate pencil, the best plan is to cut down upon one end, which is then seized and the body withdrawn. In connection with objects such as these, the urethroscope may afford valuable information, especially in demonstrating which end is impacted ; the impacted end should always be cut down upon in preference to the other. The urethra is then closed by fine absorbable catgut stitches, and the skin incision should be sutured, except at one point, which is left open for a few days in case leakage of urine should occur. The patient may be allowed to micturate spontaneously. Occasionally large-headed pins are introduced into the urethra, and these can often be removed without a cutting operation. These bodies are always introduced into the urethra head foremost, and the head of the pin can generally be felt in the penile urethra. This is seized and fixed with the fingers, whilst the penis is stretched and then firmly dorsi-flexed so as to thrust the point of the pin through the urethral wall and skin Fig. 93.—Straight, grooved staff for Perineal Section. on the under-surface of the penis (see Fig. 92, II). The point is now seized and the pin is drawn out as far as it will come, leaving only the head inside the urethra. The direction of the pin is now reversed by rotating the point downwards towards the anus, so as to make the pin lie with its head directed towards the meatus when, by taking hold of the point of the instrument, the head can be pushed along the urethia towards the meatus, through which it is protruded and withdrawn (see Fig. 92, III—V). 2. Of foreign bodies in the deep urethra.—In this group of cases the treatment is identical whether the foreign body is impacted or not. The surgeon has to decide whether he will attempt to push the object into the bladder with a large sound and subsequently crush it with a lithotrite, or whether he will perform perineal section at once. Perineal section is to be recommended in most cases as it insures removal without any damage to the delicate prostatic urethra ; this is almost certain to occur if an attempt is made to push the body into the bladder. The latter method is most uncertain even with a small smooth object, and, if attempted, the greatest care should be exercised, and the surgeon must be ready to cut down at once if the attempt fails. The cutting operation is very simple, and takes the form of a median perineal section. A blunt-ended straight staff with a median groove (see Fig. 93) is passed down until it rests in contact with the foreign body, and is then made prominent in the perineum by carrying the handle somewhat