CARCINOMA 177 even though the tumour is actually situated in the centre of the breast. On the other hand, retraction of the nipple may be met with in chronic inflammatory conditions, more especially in tuberculosis, and also as a congenital malformation. Once the ' suspensory ligaments ' are involved, the cancer-cells are apt to spread in the lymphatic vessels running with them to the skin, and may thus enter the plexus of lymphatic vessels in the deeper part of the dermis and spread rapidly over a wide area. In that case the skin becomes red and cedematous, and this may be followed by a diffuse development of cancerous nodules in the skin which run together and produce a hard, brawny, red patch—^the condition known as cancer ' en cuirasse ' ; this is usually met with in the more rapidly growing forms. In other cases the growth itself spreads to and involves the skin, which presently becomes ulcerated, and a typical cancerous ulcer is formed which after a time usually presents a deep crater-like appearance. A striking evidence of the great contraction that occurs in cancerous tumours of the breast is that the organ may actually appear smaller than its fellow, although it may contain a tumour of considerable size. Indeed, in atrophic cancer the breast tissue may disappear almost entirely, being drawn into the growth and gradually destroyed. Even at a comparatively early period it will be found that the affected breast, whether smaller or not, is less pendulous than its fellow, and the nipple on the affected side is at a higher level than on the other. Before long, the tumour becomes adherent to the pectoral fascia, and subsequently to the pectoralis major. Adhesion of the tumour to the pectoral fascia occurs early in some cases—at any rate, when the tumour is situated towards the deeper part of the breast—and is usually detected by instructing the patient to grasp one hand iirmly in the other and try to separate the arms. This renders the pectoral muscle tense, and then by attempting to move the breast and tumour in the direction of the muscular fibres the presence or absence of adhesion may be ascertained. This question is of great importance because if the growth is adherent to the pectoral fascia it implies that the whole of that fascia must be looked upon as possibly infected, and it is still more important when the muscle itself is actually involved, because the arrangement of the lymphatics in the muscle is such that the disease may be quickly disseminated throughout it as the result of the natural movements. The axillary glands become enlarged at a fairly early period of the disease, but it must be borne in mind that they are probably infected long before they can be felt. The glands first enlarged are usually those along the outer edge of the pectoral muscles ; the infection extends from this point upwards along the axillary glands and thence into those at the root of the neck. Cancer of the breast is often associated with a characteristic stabbing V. N