AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS 292 will in all probability be hopelessly injured. Moreover, sepsis will probably be avoided by proceeding at once to castration. The contused edges of the wound in the soft parts should be excised at the same time. TORSION OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. A number of cases have now been operated upon in which the cord has been twisted to such an extent that the blood-supply to the testis is cut off and gangrene occurs ; this is especially likely to occur in an imperfectly descended testis when the organ hangs into the tunica vaginalis in a horizontal position and when therefore it is easily rotated around its transverse axis. The accident usually follows a blow or strain, and gives rise to much shock, accompanied by vomiting, tenderness, local pain, and rapid swelling in the region affected. The condition may be mistaken for strangulated hernia. TREATMENT.—The best plan is to remove the testis. Cases have been published in which the condition has not been very severe and the twist has been undone. The occurrence of the twist may be I'ecognised from the position of tlie epididymis, which comes to the front or the outer side, instead of lying behind and to the inner side. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. The epididymis, or the body of the testicle, may be the seat of the inflammation, or both may be affected simultaneously. The inflammation may be acute or chronic, the latter form being especially associated with tubercle or syphilis. ACUTE EPIDIDYMITIS. This affection usually originates in connection with some inflammation in the deep urethra, and although it is sometimes met with apart from a gonococcal infection, this disease accounts for the vast majority of the cases. When due to the gonococcus, it generally sets in during the third or fourth week of the gonorrhoea ; before the attack occurs, there are signs that the inflammation has reached the deep urethra (see p. 352). Any other acute urethral inflammation may also set up an acute epididymitis. It is not uncommon in patients with enlarged prostate who lead a catheter-life. It may also occur in connection with inflammation behind a stricture, with prostatic or impacted urethral calculi, and after operations such as prostatectomy, urethrotomy, lithotomy, or the passage of urethral instrimients. It is rarely of non-urethral origin, but it may occasionally follow an injury.