HYDATIDS 29 the fibrous envelope surrounding it ; this is usually comparatively easy, as the connection between it and the external envelope is somewhat loose and the finger or a blunt dissector will separate the two. This leaves a cavity which closes quickly. When the contents of the cyst have been evacuated, a sponge is thrust into the cavity, the gauze packing around is removed, and the opening in the cyst is united by a continuous catgut suture to the cut edges of the peritoneum ; the sponge is then withdrawn, large drainage tubes are introduced into the cavity, and an antiseptic dressing applied. If the ' endo-cyst ' has been removed, the cavity closes quickly, the drainage tubes being shortened as it contracts. If, however, a portion of the wall or some of the daughter cysts have been left behind, the cavity must be flushed out from time to time with sterilised salt solution in order to get rid of these structures. If other cysts are present in the immediate neighbourhood of the primary one they may sometimes be drained through the original opening by burrowing through the liver substance until they are reached. Should the cyst be multilocular, all the septa must be broken down ; should it be suppurating, a similar procedure must be adopted, but extra care must be taken to prevent infection of the abdominal cavity ; in fact, the case must be looked upon as one of abdominal abscess. As a rule, however, adhesions have already formed between the cyst and the abdominal wall in these cases, and the treatment is comparatively simple. It is unnecessary in these cases to pack the cyst afterwards. Complete removal of the cyst with its investing capsule is seldom feasible, and is unnecessary if the ' endo-cyst ' is removed. An attempt to remove the librous capsule from the liver substance means an extensive operation, accompanied by bleeding which is difficult to arrest, and also by the escape of bile. When the hydatid cyst grows from the upper and posterior surface of the liver it may project in the subphrenic region and cannot be reached by a laparotomy. The latter method, however, is the best whenever it can be carried out and, even if it should involve the removal of the ends of two or three of the floating ribs, it should be attempted if it appears probable that the cyst can thus be reached through the abdomen. When it is necessary to reach it by the thoracic route, the best plan is to remove a portion of the eighth or ninth rib in the anterior axillary line, to suture the parietal to the diaphragmatic pleura if the pleural cavity has been opened and then to incise the diaphragm in the same way as for an hepatic abscess (see p. 25). If adhesions have formed between the cyst and the under-surface of the diaphragm there wiU be no further difficulty and the cyst can be laid open freely, its contents evacuated, and large drainage tubes inserted. If, however, adhesions are absent, the steps of the opera- tion will be identical with those for the treatment of the cyst through a laparotomy wound, the edges of the cyst wall being pulled up