AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 156 at the same time as the laryngectomy is performed, but when it is clear before the operation is undertaken that laryngectomy will be required, it is well to divide the operation into two stages, removing the glands in the first instance and carrying out the laryngectomy a week or so later. In these cases the whole triangle should be cleared out down to the clavicle. The method of removing glands in this situation is described in Vol. IV. p. loi. The operation of complete laryngectomy is performed as follows : A vertical incision is made in the middle line of the neck commencing above the upper border of the hyoid bone and extending down to about an inch below the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. Transverse incisions are carried outwards for about two inches on each side from the upper and lower ends of this incision, and the two flaps thus formed are turned aside. The laryngeal muscles and fascia are then turned aside, care being taken to leave the perichondrium with the larynx. After the front and sides of the larynx have been cleared and the attachment of the pharynx defined, attention is directed to the trachea. An incision (vertical or transverse) is made just above the supra-sternal notch and deepened between the muscles down to the trachea, and the bridge of skin, muscles, and fascia is lifted up from the front of the trachea with the finger. The trachea is now cut across just below the cricoid cartilage, seized with forceps and pulled out through this opening ; in order to enable the trachea to come forward easily and without any kinking, it may be necessary to divide the isthmus of the thyroid gland. The open end of the trachea is cut obliquely if necessary so as to make it lie flush with the surface of the skin, to which it is attached by interrupted sutures of silkworm-gut. The trachea should be divided as near the cricoid as possible and brought out through a skin-opening made as low down as possible so as to compensate for the downward pull of the lungs when the support of the larynx is lost. The lower end of the cricoid cartilage is now seized with forceps and the pharynx peeled from the back of the cartilage with a blunt dissector, great care being taken not to tear a hole in the pharynx in so doing. When there is no reason to believe that the disease has attacked the posterior part of the cricoid cartilage, this accident may be avoided by peeling up a little of the perichondrium to which the lower constrictors of the pharynx are attached. The detachment of the pharynx is carried up to the upper part of the cricoid cartilage (unless it is found that the disease has after all spread outside the larynx) and the pharynx is then opened by dividing it transversely. The thyro-hyoid membrane is now divided from the front, and the epiglottis is cut across at the same level, unless it has become affected, when it is completely removed. The aryteno-epiglottidean folds are divided, and the larynx is removed with a few snips of the scissors. Care should be taken at this stage not to remove more mucous