448 AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER fluid allowed to escape. As a rule the organ is so sensitive that it will not bear much distension, and only an ounce or two can be run in at a time. Strong antiseptics should be avoided, as proper disinfection by their means is out of the question. The tube may occasionally become blocked with shreds of membrane, which may be puUed out with a pair of forceps. Perineal is better than supra-pubic drainage, partly because the evacuation is more complete, and partly because it avoids the danger of infiltration of the pre-vesical cellular tissue with the putrid urine. The tube and tubing should be changed once or twice daily, and the fresh tubes employed should be boiled before use. The patient's general condition is so bad that stimulants are required. When the pulse is soft and rapid, and there is great restlessness and muttering delirium, an ounce of brandy or whisky should be given every three or four hours, together with two or three grains of hydrochloride of quinine every three hours, either in milk or in combination with dilute sulphuric acid. Opium must be very cautiously given, and bromide of potassium (gr. xxx), with ten grains of hydrate of chloral, should be employed in preference ; if these fail, however, opium must be resorted to. Vaccines are not of much use in these acute cases. CHRONIC CYSTITIS. Chronic cystitis is usually due to some local cause, such as a stricture, enlarged prostate, or stone. Occasionally, however, the acute attack may pass into a chronic condition, and alternating attacks of acute and chronic cystitis are not uncommon. Chronic cystitis is a chronic catarrh of the mucous membrane, which becomes thickened ; the sub-mucous cellular tissue may also be affected. Erosion of the surface of the mucous membrane may occur, and there may be hypertrophy of the muscular bundles and the forma- tion of a fasciculated or, later, a sacculated bladder. In some of these cases the bladder becomes enlarged and thinned, while in others its capacity diminishes and its walls are much thickened. The symptoms only differ in degree from those of the acute form. There is frequent painful micturition, with pus and mucus in the urine ; the frequency as a rule is only slightly marked at night. 'The pain rarely amounts to more than a sHght scalding on micturition and smarting at the tip of the penis. There may be some tenderness on pressure above the pubes or in the perineum, but as a rule there is merely an uneasy feeling, especially when the bladder becomes slightly distended. The urine contains most pus at the beginning and end of micturition, showing that the affection is chiefly confined to the trigone and neck of the bladder, and this is well seen if the patient is made to pass urine into three glasses ; pus will be found in the first and last, but will be almost entirely absent from the intermediate specimen.