CALCULUS 473 1. The supra-pubic operation is the ideal method for large hard stones that a lithotrite cannot crush, and also for multiple calculi. The incision into the bladder can be made of any shape or size that is desired, and the stone can be extracted without bruising the vesical walls, whereas attempts to draw a large or rough stone through an inadequate incision by the perineal route, lead to severe and serious sepsis. Further, supra- pubic cystotomy is valuable for multiple calculi, because the interior of the bladder is open to inspection and a calculus cannot possibly be overlooked. 2. When there is enlargement of the prostate, the supra-pubic opera- tion is valuable because it enables the stone to be removed without damage to the gland. Moreover, operative procedures for the enlargement of the prostate may be carried out at the same time (see Chap. XXXIX.) without increasing the severity of the latter operation. 3. The supra-pubic method is essential for an encysted stone ; by no other means can the aperture of communication between the cyst and the rest of the bladder be properly seen, or suitable measures taken for removal of the stone. 4. When there is advanced renal disease, or cystitis with foul urine, the supra-pubic operation is most valuable because there is no risk of septic absorption from injury to the prostatic plexus, whilst at the same time free drainage is provided. 5. In children with stones too large for lithotrity the supra-pubic operation should be done, although some surgeons still prefer lateral lithotomy. With the former operation there is no danger of making too large an incision into the neck of the bladder and causing permanent incontinence of urine ; the bladder is largely an abdominal organ in children, and is therefore even more easily exposed than in the adult. 6. In women, the supra-pul)ic operation is best, if a cutting operation is desirable, as not only can the interior of the bladder be thoroughly inspected, but there is no risk of a subsequent vesico-vaginal fistula. Supra-pubic lithotomy.—The pubes is shaved and disinfected in the usual manner, and the patient lies upon his back with the pelvis well raised, so that he is almost in the Trendelenburg position. This is useful, as the intestines gravitate towards the diaphragm, and the peritoneal pouch is carried as much as possible out of harm's way. In order to expose the organ with the least damage to other structures, it is always well to render it as prominent as possible, and we are accus- tomed to do this by distending it with as much warm boric lotion as it will conveniently hold. The bladder is first washed out thoroughly (see p. 446), and the patient should be fully under the anaesthetic. The amount employed for distending the bladder will vary ; a healthy organ will easily hold from eight to ten ounces, but a contracted one holds much less, and the distension should not be pushed beyond the point at which the bladder commences to make expulsive efforts. The catheter