URETERAL CALCULUS 571 ureteral calculus is the sole lesion, there is no necessity for cutting down upon the kidney. The diagnosis of a calculus impacted in the ureter, as distinguished from a calculus in the kidney, is of great practical importance, as it is obviously of advantage not to do more in the way of operative interference than is absolutely necessary. An important point in the diagnosis is that the escape of urine from the affected side is interfered with by the calculus impacted in the ureter, and it is easy to determine this fact by the aid of the cystoscope after injection of indigo-carmine (see p. 511). The coloured urine will be seen issuing from the sound ureter, while none comes from the affected one. This, however, does not tell the surgeon more than that the ureter on that side is occluded, and of course this may be due to a stone impacted in any part of its course. If the other kidney is healthy and there is no reflex anuria, dilatation of the ureter and pelvis of the kidney will occur above the obstruction, and there will be a tumour in the loin. Should the stone act as a sort of ball-valve at the commencement of the ureter, a condition of intermittent hydronephrosis will be established. When hydronephrosis is present, the blockage is incomplete ; when the obstruction is sudden and complete, the kidney may undergo atrophy without hydronephrosis occurring. Most of these calculi are opaque to the X-rays, and can be diagnosed and localised with some certainly by means of a radiogram. Further, if a catheter which is opaque to the X-rays is passed up the affected ureter, it will be arrested at the seat of impaction and can be radiographed in situ. Occasionally, especially in spare subjects, the calculus may be felt through the abdominal wall, the rectum, the vagina, or the bladder. When a stone is impacted in the lower end of the ureter, in the female, it is fairly easy to feel it per vaginam. When it is impacted in or near the ureteral orifice, the protrusion of the mucous membrane of the ureter may be recognised by the cystoscope. The most common seats of impaction are the points at which the diameter of the ureter is smallest —namel}^ about two inches from the hilum of the kidney and at the vesical end of the ureter ; there is another narrow part where the ureter crosses the brim of the pelvis. The ureter above the obstruction becomes thickened and dilated, but it may undergo ulceration or sloughing later on, and when the impaction is in the wall of the bladder the stone may escape into that viscus by ulceration. TREATMENT.—When it is certain that the stone will not pass down the ureter-—and this can be ascertained by taking a series of radio- grams at suitable intervals—it should be removed, if possible, by an extra-peritoneal operation. The exact steps of the operation will depend both upon the seat of impaction and also upon whether the stone in the ureter is the sole lesion. When a sionc is found in /he ureter in the course of an operation for stone