INJURIES OF THE URETER 539 within outwards, one-sixteenth to one-eighth of an inch apart, through the upper end of the ureter and about an eighth of an inch from the cut edge (see Fig. 146). The loop of catgut thus grasps the end of the ureter firmly. The needles are now passed through the slit in the lower end of the ureter and down the tube for half an inch, and are then pushed obliquely through its wall side by side. When the two ends are pulled upon, the upper end of the ureter is drawn into the lower, and the loop is tied. A continuous Lembert suture is then applied around the line of union of the two portions. To strengthen the union, the line of junction is enveloped by peritoneum, or a fold of omentum is sewn over it ; the former plan is the better. Care must be taken to avoid soihng the wound and the peritoneal cavity. The parts should be packed off and the ends of the ureter covered until the surgeon is ready to unite them ; before proceeding with the union, the ureter should always be probed to see that it is patent. As the injury nearly always occurs in the pelvis the Trendelenburg position is advisable. A drainage tube should be inserted down to the ureter, but not actually touching it; if no leakage or sepsis occurs, it can be dispensed with in four days. A catheter should be retained in the bladder for two days in order to prevent the bladder becoming distended and causing strain upon the sutures. Ureteral grafting. — Ureteral anastomosis is not always possible ; even in recent cases, it is very difficult to carry out when the ureter is wounded low down in the pelvis : the alternatives are to graft the ureter into the bladder (see p. 540), the intestine (see p. 543), or the vagina (see p. 541), or to attach it to an opening in the skin. The ideal operation is to graft the ureter into the bladder, and this should be done when the site of injury is close to that organ. Grafting it into the bowel is a much more serious procedure, partly on account of the risk of stenosis of the ureteral orifice, and partly because of the danger of ascending septic infection. If the ureter is to be grafted into the bowel, it is better to implant it into the colon than into the rectum, as in the former case there is more room for accumulation of the urine, and therefore there is not the same necessity for repeated evacuations, while at the same time the contents of the bowel pass on more quickly, and are not so long in contact with the ureteral orifice. Bringing the end of the ureter out on to the skin no doubt also entails a certain risk of ascending septic infection, but this may be minimised by careful attention. The escape of urine on to the skin, however, is most objectionable, and in most cases, when the other kidney is sound and it is impossible to restore the lumen of the ureter, the patient will insist on a nephrectomy. Grafting the proximal end of the ureter into the vagina is perhaps preferable to creating a cutaneous urinary fisula, since an attempt may be made to perform uretero-vesical grafting subsequently. It is only when the damage to the ureter is too high up for this that the ends should be brought