AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS 286 could no doubt be brought down satisfactorily, but some vessels and nerves must be left, otherwise the testicle would not develop and might die. The funicular process of the peritoneum must also be most carefully separated from the structures of the cord as low down as the epididymis, and this is often a difficult matter as the process is very thin and the elements of the cord are closely adherent to it. The usual incision for the radical cure of an inguinal hernia is employed (see Vol IV. p. 489), and the external abdominal ring is exposed. The external spermatic fascia is divided, the aponeurosis of the external oblique is slit up, and the testis with the hernial sac and the structures of the cord are lifted out of the inguinal canal and cleared as far as the internal ring. The vas is then isolated and the hernial sac identified, carefully peeled off the structures of the cord, and cut across im- mediately above the epididymis ; the upper end is cleared well up to the internal abdominal ring and clamped pending the treatment of the testis. In clearing the sac it must be borne in mind that the vas often runs down below the testicle, and is very apt to be injured or divided unless special care be taken. The testis is now pulled downwards to- wai^ds the scrotum so as to put the tissues of the cord on the stretch, and to ascertain which of them prevent the testicle from coming into the scrotum. The bands of fibrous tissue and the cremaster mu.scle must be divided, together with any other structures that wiU not stretch sufficiently to allow the testis to be brought into the scrotum. As many of the blood-vessels should be saved as possible, but as a rule the vessels and nerves which accompany the vas are sufficient to prevent necrosis or atrophy of the testis. When these structures have been divided, the parts will usually be sufficiently elongated to enable the testis to be brought down to the bottom of the scrotum without undue tension on the cord. If there is any difficulty in getting the testis quite to the bottom of the scrotum, additional length will be obtained by separating the vas deferens, the globus minor, and the body of the epididymis from the body of the testicle, and then pulhng the latter down. When the cord has been sufficiently elongated, the finger is pushed down into the corresponding half of the scrotum and a pouch is made for the reception of the testis. A silk ligature of medium thickness is then threaded on a nsevus-needle and passed through the tissues and the tunica albuginea at the bottom of the testis, well free of the globus minor, and the needle is unthreaded. Both ends of the stitch are now threaded through the eye of the needle, which is then passed down through the bottom of the pouch made in the scrotum, under the guidance of the finger. The needle is then unthreaded and the two ends of the stitch are left pro- truding from the bottom of the scrotum. Traction upon the ends of this thread will puU the testis well down into the bottom of the scrotum and put all the structures upon the stretch. When this is being done, care must be taken to see that the testis is not twisted upon the vas. The