458 AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER TREATMENT.—(a) Of true nocturnal enuresis.—There are three indications for treatment : firstly, to divert the patient's attention from the affection from wliich he suffers ; secondly, to insure light sleep, so that the child may awake immediately the bladder becomes distended ; and thirdly, to strengthen the sphincter muscles. The child should be, consequently, encouraged to think that he will speedily grow out of this repulsive affection, and should not be punished for what is not his fault. He should sleep on a hard mattress, and be lightly covered, and a night-light should burn in the room. He should be taught to lie on one side, and, if there is any difficulty about this, some hard object may be strapped over the spine to prevent his sleeping on the back. Any obstruction to the air-passages—such as adenoids or enlarged tonsils—should be removed, and sources of irritation—such as a long prepuce or worms—should be treated. In all cases the urine should be examined, and any abnormality corrected ; if the bacillus coli is present, an autogenous vaccine may be used. The child should be encouraged to drink bland fluids—such as barley water—during the day, so as to dilute the urine and render it less irritating, but nothing should be given to drink after five o'clock in the evening. He should go to bed early, the bladder being emptied the last thing before going to sleep, and he should always be instructed to get up and pass water whenever he wakes. A good plan is to wake young children up three or four hours after they go to bed, in order to establish the habit of passing water. In the case of adults, an alarm clock may be used—set to go off about three or four hours after the patient has retired. If he should find that he wets the bed again in spite of this, the clock should be set again so as to wake him up a second time. In severe cases, benefit is sometimes obtained 'by counter-irritation to the spine by means of a mustard plaster or a blister. Amongst the methods of local treatment the galvanic current is useful. The negative pole is placed over the lower part of the spine, whilst the positive is applied to the perineum immediately behind the scrotum. A current of 5 milliamperes is applied for about three-quarters of an hour daily. The faradaic current may be alternated with this, one pole being introduced into the rectum whilst the other is applied in turn on the perineum and the supra-pubic region. The child may resent the introduction of the pole into the rectum, in which case the galvanic current alone should be employed. The diet should be plain ; highly nitrogenous food and any article of diet which increases the incontinence should be avoided. The general health should receive attention, and it may be of use to send the child to the country or the seaside for a long hohday. Drugs, such as cod- liver oil or iron, are of value ; other drugs supposed to have a specific action are also given, of which those commonly employed are belladonna or atropine: or of a grain of atropine may be given to