AFFECTIONS OF THE PENIS 268 than the nitric acid. In these cases the destruction of the affected parts must be carried out boldly ; the best plan is to put the patient under an anaesthetic, clip away all sloughs and undermined skin, and then cauterise the whole area thoroughly, going wide of the disease both in its superficial area and in depth. (b) General.—The patient must have nutritious diet, and should rest as much as possible, so as to avoid irritation of the inguinal glands. Violent exercise, or prolonged standing, should be prohibited. In the severer cases, rigid confinement to bed is necessary and quinine and iron may be given. The bowels should be kept open. (c) Of inflamed glands.—As soon as signs of inflammation of the inguinal glands become evident, the patient should be put to bed and warm fomentations applied to the groins ; if the primary sores are doing well, it not uncommonly happens that the glandular inflamma- tion subsides. We do not advise the peri- and intra-glandular injection of carbolic acid and other substances advocated by some surgeons, as they are painful and generally inefficient. If it becomes evident, however, that suppuration is occurring, excision of the mass of glands, and the abscess^ in them, along with the surrounding fat, should be resorted to. It is not sufficient to shell out the enlarged glands alone, because the peri-glandular tissue may have become infected already. Care should be taken to cut wide of any abscess that may have already formed. By doing this, much time may be saved, and a long illness avoided, for if these abscesses are once allowed to open spontaneously, the surface may become chancroid, and healing is then slow, and is often further delayed by the formation of fresh abscesses in neighbouring glands. After the skin has been shaved and disinfected, a free incision is made over the mass, the knife is carried through the healthy fat at some distance from the glands, and, after a little dissection, the whole mass is lifted out ; should the skin be adherent, the infiltrated area of skin is enclosed in an oval incision and removed with the glands. After an operation of this kind it is well to insert a drainage tube at the outer angle of the wound and keep it in for a few days in case infection of the operation-wound should have occurred. Sometimes, however, the case is not seen until a large abscess is present, and then the surgeon must content himself with making a small opening into it, inserting through this a small sharp spoon, scraping the wall of the cavity thoroughly, and washing it out. Some iodoform emulsion should be injected, and a small strand of horsehair or a shred of gauze laid between the edges of the wound, so as to allow of the escape of the discharge ; outside the first layers of the dressing, pressure is made, either by sponges or a pad of gauze, kept in place by an elastic spica bandage ; this brings the walls of the abscess cavity into contact, and helps to obliterate it. This plan is important, since the organism being aerobic, it is thus deprived of its due supply of air much more