CARCINOMA i8i muscles, and ascribes the frequent occurrence of secondary nodules in the liver to infection by this route. In the axilla the chief lymphatic chain runs upwards along the lower aspect of and in close connection with the axillary vein and behind the costo-coracoid membrane, where the vein passes into the neck, and, if infection spreads past this point, enlai"gement of the glands in the neck appears behind the lower end of the sterno-mastoid. The infection may also spread up in front of the vessels and nerves into the pos- terior triangle about the centre of the clavicle, and a chain of enlarged glands may also be found extending upwards behind the axillary vessels along the course of the nerve of Bell, communicating eventually with glands in the back part of the posterior triangle of the neck. In performing the operation the patient lies on her back, with the arm on the affected side at right angles to the body, the hand being fastened by a bandage to the head of the table ; the arm should not be higher than a right angle, otherwise the head of the humerus may press unduly on the axillary plexus and lead to temporary paralysis. The exact details of the operation will of course vary with the individual case, but there are certain general principles which underlie all opera- tions for cancer of the breast. The first point to be considered is the removal of the skin In carcinoma of the breast the skin is often widely infected with the disease, and this riG. 49. — Incision for kumoval of a is especially likely to be the case cancfrous tumour occupying the centre 1 OF THF, Breast. where the skm is tacked down or actually adherent to the growth. It is therefore always necessary to remove a large amount of skin in the neighbourhood of the tumour, and inasmuch as the lymphatics of the breast converge towards the nipple, and there is always therefore the possibility of infection of the wide-meshed sub-areolar plexus, the skin over the whole prominent part of the breast must be taken away. If the growth is centrally situated, removal of the skin over the whole breast will in most cases also remove a wide area around the tumour, but if the growth is situated towards the periphery of the breast, a wider area of skin must be taken away. The extent to which the skin is affected must be estimated by observing the points at which puckering occurs when the tumour is moved under the skin, and a zone is then marked out by a series of short incisions around the tumour, leaving a margin of at least two inches of apparently normal skin on every side of the obviously adherent portion. The skin which