479 BENIGN TUMOURS by the usual vertical incision in the great majority of cases ; occasion- ally, however, the cystoscope may reveal a growth in such a position that it will be dealt with more easily through a transverse than through a vertical opening {vide infra). The 'caisson' speculum (see p. 456) is useful for these cases, as by it the growth can be isolated, dried, and inspected in a good light, and its exact relations ascertained. The retrac- tors illustrated in Fig. 123 are especially valuable in these cases, as they retract the walls of the bladder to a greater extent than the edges of the abdominal incision. The tumour is seized with forceps and cut away, together with the whole thickness of the mucous membrane beneath, and in the immediate vicinity of its base. The bleeding is stopped by temporary pressure with forceps, or by an electric cautery. Unless the elhptical wound thus made is very small, it is well to insert a stitch or two across its centre, and for this purpose the finest absorbable catgut should be employed in a fully curved intestinal needle, and the ends cut quite short. After the growth has been removed, the whole surface of the mucous membrane is gone over carefully with the help of the speculum in order to see whether any other growths are present ; if found, they should be removed in a similar manner. If the urine is aseptic, the bladder is then closed in the ordinary way (see p. 437), a drainage tube being inserted from the abdominal incision into the pre- vesical space. The after-treatment is described on p. 475. Recovery is rapid, and the patient may be up in three weeks. Should there be free oozing, it is well to leave a tube in the bladder, otherwise blood-clots may cause distension of the bladder and leakage through the stitches. This tube is then fixed by a glass connection to another rubber tube, which dips under the surface of a bowl of carbohc lotion; the tube may be left out in two or three days. A separate drainage tube should be inserted in the pre-vesical space. If the bladder cannot be closed tightly enough around the drainage tube, and urine escapes, an Irving's supra-pubic drainage apparatus may be employed (see p. 419), but it is more difhcult to keep the urine aseptic with that arrangement. When the tumour is very extensive, it may be difficult to work properly through the ordinary vertical incision, and a transverse incision through the abdominal wall from a point just above and internal to each internal abdominal ring will be more satisfactory. The recti are cut through transversely just above their insertion into the pubes, and the front of the bladder is thus freely exposed, and can be opened by a transverse incision also. The result of these operations may be very satisfactory; in some cases, however, fresh villous tumours form after a time, and the bladder may have to be opened repeatedly. It will often be found that the recurrence has not taken place on the site of the old growth if the latter has been effectually removed, but that fresh tumours have