GONOCOCCAL URETHRITIS 353 largely general; if local treatment is employed it must be unirritating, as its object is not to destroy the bacteria, for that is impossible, but to relieve the inflammatory symptoms ; therefore it must never go beyond attempts to wash the pus out of the urethra. The patient should be kept quiet; it is even advisable for him to stay in bed for a few days, as complications are then less likely to occur. In any case; active exercise should be avoided, as well as anything that tends to sexual excitement. A suspensory bandage should be worn from the first, but the edge of the bag must not press upon the urethra; otherwise it might lead to retention of pus and increase of irritation. The bowels should be freely evacuated by means of salines, and the urine kept dilute and unirritating by mild diuretics, such as citrate of potash (gr. x to gr. xx, three or four times a day) or spirits of nitrous ether (n\xx) with an alkali, such as carbonate of potash (gr. xx) ; in addition, large quantities of diluent drinks, such as barley water, toast and water, or infusion of linseed, should be taken. In the very acute stage some sedative, such as tincture of hyoscyamus (I1\x to I1\xx) or tincture of belladonna (ll\v) may be added to the alkaline mixture. Alcohol must be entirely prohibited ; it is remarkable how the inflammatory symptoms immediately increase if alcohol is taken. A light diet should be prescribed; and red meat, coffee and tea should be avoided. The question of the administration of sandal-wood oil or balsam of copaiba during the early stages has been much discussed. It is probably better to avoid these drugs during the very acute stage, as they may upset the digestion, and it is even possible that they may render the urine more irritating. These drugs are of great value, however, as soon as the inflammatory symptoms are beginning to subside (see p. 352). Some sirrgeons strongly advocate the use of salol during the acute stage as having a direct antiseptic action upon the urethra, and they give it in 5- to 30-grain closes three or four times a day ; urotropine in doses of 5 to 10 grains three times a day may also be given with the same object. If there is much scalding on micturition and the patient dreads the act, a good plan is to make him pass urine into hot water either by micturating while ,in a hip-bath or by immersing the penis in a vessel of hot water. Cystopurin—a double salt of sodium acetate and hexamethylenetetra- mine—has been well spoken of in this affection. It is given in doses of ten grains three times daily. Chordee is best treated by the administration of bromide of potassium. This drug does not produce its effect for some hours after it has been administered, and it is therefore well to give it during the day as well as at bedtime. In any case a dose of 20 grains should be given about six o'clock in the evening and another about ten, and to the latter dose it is well to add tincture of belladonna (n\v to r\xv). If this fails to prevent the erections, a half-grain suppository of morphine may be given at bedtime. Minor degrees of chordee are generally relieved by a hot sitz bath or even a cold douche ; when it is very troublesome, leeches may V. A A