AFFECTIONS OF THE PANCREAS 8 The fluid in a true pancreatic cyst is nearly always slightly blood- stained and contains albumen, urea, and cholesterin ; it very rarely con- sists of pure pancreatic fluid. It is almost always alkaline, is generally somewhat tenacious and slimy, and its specific gravity varies from loio to 1020 ; sugar may be present. These cysts may occur anywhere in the gland, but are said to be more frequent in the neighbourhood of its tail. They are retro-peritoneal, and, as they increase in size, they push forward the lesser sac of the peritoneum until the anterior wall of the cyst comes into close proximity with the anterior abdominal parietes. The exact relation of the cyst to the stomach and intestines varies in different cases (see Fig. i). The commonest condition is for the cyst to find its way for- wards between the stomach and transverse colon, the former being pressed up against the liver, and the cyst wall being covered by the anterior layer of the gastro-colic omentum. In other cases, the cyst may find its way forwards below the transverse meso-colon, and in others again above the stomach. A large cyst may cause serious pressure upon the duodenum, the common bile-duct, the aorta, the vena cava, the portal vein, or the solar plexus. The cyst is not mobile; in any case, only the projecting portion moves with respiration. Transmitted pulsation from the aorta may be marked. The cyst is usually median, but it may lie to the left or, more rarely, to the right of the middle line. The symptoms are usually indefinite ; the patient generally complains of dyspepsia and pain. Symptoms due to interference with the functions of the pancreas may also be present, especially if the cyst is large, e.g. wasting, glycosuria, undigested fat in the stools or diarrhoea. The cyst is usually globular, smooth, and very tense and maybe mistaken for a solid tumour. It may vary in size, apparently emptying and then re-filling ; whether it empties by rupture or by absorption of the fluid is not clear. If left alone, it will ultimately rupture either into the alimentary canal or into the peritoneal cavity, and recovery may take place. Death, however, may occur from obstruction, haemorrhage, peritonitis, profound jaundice, diabetes, or wasting ; cysts of pancreatic origin are accom- panied by much more marked emaciation and loss of strength than is the case with other cysts, such as hydatids, found in the same region. The cyst has to be distinguished from one of ovarian or hepatic origin, from an enlarged gall-bladder or spleen, from hydro-nephrosis, from hydatid or hgemorrhagic cysts of the kidney, from aneurysm, and from mesenteric cysts. Any attempt to make the diagnosis by puncture is to be condemned, as the needle may traverse either the stomach or the colon. Puncture should only be carried out, if at all, after exposure of the cyst by opening the abdomen. TREATMENT.—The methods of treatment at present in vogue are repeated tappings, incision and drainage, or extirpation of the cyst. The first method is, in our opinion, bad, for the reasons mentioned above ;