PERI- AND PARA-NEPHRIC TUMOURS 593 increase in the degeneration on the other side. If the disease is certainly unilateral, the affected kidney may be excised. The disease is often only discovered during hfe after an exploratory operation, and then the only question that arises is the advisability of opening some of the cysts so as to cause diminution of the tumour ; in some cases this may give temporary relief. PERI-NEPHRIC CYSTS. These are extremely rare and are usually only diagnosed after operation. They may result from htemorrhage outside the kidney. PERI- AND PARA-NEPHRIC TUMOURS. Tumours of the supra-renal capsule are not very uncommon, and are generally malignant adenomata presenting the characters of supra- renal tissue. It is often impossible to diagnose them from primary tumours of the kidney, although a suspicion of their true nature may be raised by rapid loss of flesh, bronzing of the skin, marked gastro-intestinal symptoms, pain referred to the tip of the shoulder, rapidity of growth, the position of the swelling, and the absence of hasmaturia. TREATMENT.—^This is similar to that for malignant disease of the kidney. In most cases the kidney must be excised as well as the tumour, because when the growth is of any size it will almost certainly have affected the kidney, and recurrence will take place speedily if the latter is left behind. In some rare cases, a partial nephrectomy—i.e. excision of the upper part of the organ with the adherent supra-renal capsule— may suffice. This point can only be determined during the operation. Many varieties of peri-nepJiric tumours may be met with in the cellular tissue around the kidney, of which fibroma, lipoma, and sarcoma are the most common. These tumours are not necessarily always peri-renal in origin, as sarcomata may grow from the kidney capsule, and probably do so in the majority of instances. The diagnosis is very difficult, and the case will generally be considered to be one of renal tumour ; the absence of haematuria is an important although not a pathognomonic sign. The exact diagnosis is only made by a lumbar or a lateral abdominal incision. TREATMENT.—This will depend upon whether the kidney is invaded or not. If the tumour is benign, it should be shelled out. In the case of a sarcomatous tumour, excision of the kidney as well may be necessary, especially if it is adherent to the growth. If there is only slight adhesion to one part of the kidney, the portion of the organ involved may be excised along with the tumour. V.