CALCULUS 471 and felt striking the end of the evacuator, which are too large to pass through it. If this is the case, the evacuator is withdrawn, the lithotrite reintroduced, and the whole procedure gone through again. If there is any difficulty in withdrawing the evacuator, this may be caused by a fragment becoming impacted in the eye of the instrument, and the obstruction must be removed by passing down the stylet before a further attempt is made to withdraw the tube. It is well to empty the bladder before withdrawing the evacuator, and to fill it up again with fresh lotion should a second crushing be necessary. Some surgeons employ on the second occasion a lithotrite with little or no fenestration of the female blade, so as to make sure of crushing the fragments to powder, but the disadvantage of this is that fragments of stone may stick between the blades and prevent their proper closure, in which case it may not be possible to withdraw the instrument. Before concluding the operation, the surgeon should introduce a sound, and search carefully in all directions for any fragment of stone that may have been overlooked, as the recurrence of stone after litholopaxy is often due to a fragment being left behind. The length of time that the operation occupies varies according to the size of the stone and the skill of the surgeon. Removal of all the fragments at one sitting, and the carrying out of the necessary manipulations so delicately that the bladder wall is not injured, are the secrets of successful litholopaxy, and the surgeon should never be tempted to make only a cursory examination of the bladder for fragments of stone by a desire to finish the operation quickly. After-treatment.—Any shock is met by the application of heat and the administration of stimulants. It may be necessary to draw off the urine for the first few days ; frequently, however, the patient micturates comfortably from the first. Irrigation is not necessary unless the urine has been foul before the operation ; irrigation twice daily with a few ounces of warm boric lotion will then suffice. The diet should be light, with plenty of diluent drinks ; urinary antiseptics (see p. 446) should be administered internally. Most adults are convalescent at the end of a week, whilst children may be up two or three days after the operation. Complications oeeurring' during" litholopaxy.—Accidents to the lithotrite, —There is no operation in which the surgeon is so entirely dependent upon his instrument-maker. Unless the lithotrite be of the finest make, it is liable to fracture or bend under the strain put upon it, and either of these accidents is most serious. Fracture of the blade of the instrument has occurred more than once. Should it happen, a supra- pubic cystotomy will be necessary for the removal of the fragments of the lithotrite and the stone. A far more serious accident is bending of the jaws of a badly tempered lithotrite ; this renders it impossible to approximate the blades, so