251 NEW GROWTHS enchondromatous and sarcomatous tumours of the chest wall have been successfully removed, but it is a question whether it is ever worth while to attempt the removal of carcinomatous masses from this situation, as they are generally secondary to scirrhus of the breast, and the condition is most unfavourable. In some cases of small cancerous nodules in a rib, a portion of the bone may be removed, but when the disease has spread to this extent, the chances of eradicating it are very slight. Sarcomata are somewhat more favourable, and, when the growth is limited, a good result may follow a free operation, in which the pleura beneath the tumour must also be removed. When, however, the sarcoma involves the skin to such an extent that the opening cannot be satisfactorily closed, operation is contra-indicated. These operations must be done under differential pressure ; if that is not available, only small tumours, in which the opening in the thorax can be satisfactorily closed, should be operated upon. The operation consists in turning aside a suitable flap so as to expose the whole of the tumour, and denuding the ribs at the point where they are to be divided. The periosteum is peeled off at that part, the ribs are resected, and for convenience in working, it is well to take out about half an inch of the ribs all round the tumour, so that, before there is any risk of opening the pleura, the tumour is isolated from the chest wall and is merely attached by the pleura and intercostal muscles ; it now only remains to divide these structures. When differential pressure is not available, the pleura should be first opened by a small puncture, and a sponge wrung out of salt solution placed over the opening, and air gradually allowed to enter the thorax. The chief risk in inducing a pneumo-thorax is the sudden entry of air. If, however, this occurs very gradually and the operation is suspended until a condition of equilibrium has been restored, the risks are slight. When the air has filled up the thoracic cavity, the surgeon can safely proceed to clip away the tumour with its attached portion of thoracic wall and pleura, the assistant meanwhile clamping each intercostal vessel as it is divided. Cloths wrung out of hot salt solution are thrown over the opening should it be found that the operation will have to be prolonged owing to adhesion of the tumour to the diaphragm or to any other structure ; of course, should the surgeon have reason to believe before operation that such adhesions exist, he would not attempt the operation. When the tumour has been removed and the bleeding arrested, the skin-flaps are closely sutured, the air in the pleura soon becomes absorbed, and the lung resumes its functions. When possible, drainage of the pleura should be avoided. If any fluid should collect in the ca\'ity, it may be evacuated by an aspirating-needle. Appropriate remedies may be needed to meet the severe shock that such an extensive operation entails. Nothing need be said concerning tumours of the lung itself. Portions