AFFECTIONS OF THE PANCREAS 2 severe internal bleeding and the source of haemorrhage be difficult to determine, the pancreas must be examined, and any bleeding points secured ; the best mode of gaining access to the pancreas is to tear through the omentum between the stomach and the transverse colon. Punctured or incised wounds may be closed by a suture inserted fairly deeply into the substance of the gland, which will also serve to stop bleeding. In the case of lacerated wounds it may be necessary to under-run the bleeding area with catgut and then suture the edges of the wound. If this is not possible, the bleeding point should be clamped with forceps, which are left on for forty-eight hours. When the duct of Wirsung is injured, an attempt should be made to stitch up the wound in it or, at any rate, to bring the tissues together over it so as to prevent leakage. Any blood in or around the pancreas should be mopped up so as to avoid the subsequent formation of a blood-cyst. In all these ca?es it is well to piovide free drainage by means of tubes; which should be packed around with gauze, so as to cause adhesions and shut off the general peritoneal cavity from the track through which the discharge escapes. This is also advisable when the organ is much contused because gangrene may follow such an injury. A traumatic hernia or prolapse of the organ may occur when there is an open wound leading down to the pancreas. Under such circumstances the prolapsed portion should be cleansed and reduced, and a drainage tube and gauze packing inserted down to the bottom of the wound. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. Various forms of acute pancreatitis—such as simple acute pancreatitis, hsemorrhagic, gangrenous, and suppurative pancreatitis—■ may be met with ; chronic pancreatitis may also occur. ACUTE PANCREATITIS. The cause of this very fatal disease is undoubtedly bacterial infection, but the exact manner in which the infection is brought about varies in different cases. The extrinsic causes most frequently at work are hepatic or pancreatic lithiasis or gastro-duodenal catarrh. The infection com- mences in the ampulla of Vater and spreads upwards to the duct of Wirsung; the organism most often isolated is the Bacillus colt commtinis, but other organisms may also set up the disease. The acute form of the affection may be divided into three groups—namely, the hasmorrhagic, the gangrenous, and the suppurative varieties; it is also usual to speak of a sub-acute form. The symptoms of the disease are frequently mistaken for those of acute