163 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS being streptococci and tlie coccus of erysipelas—easily find entrance through these cracks. The fissures are generally multiple, and radiate from the centre of the nipple ; they may be limited to the nipple, but more commonly they extend on to the areola. They give rise to intense pain, which is set up by the slightest touch ; they bleed readily and soon become infected, and the child in suckling may swallow not only blood but pus. TREATMENT.—The prophylaxis is most important. If the skin is tender or the nipple deformed, the patient should either avoid suckling altogether or should not suckle the child too frequently, and the parts should always be thoroughly washed with boric lotion afterwards and then carefully dried and dusted with boric powder, which must be wiped away before the child again takes the breast. When fissures are actually present, suckling should be abandoned, but, if the mother refuses to do this, the next best thing is to employ a suitable shield to fit the nipple, through which the child may suck without much risk. In the intervals between suckling, the fissures should be bathed with antiseptic lotions—such as boric acid or boro-glyceride ; or a paint composed of sulphurous acid glycerine of tannic acid (5ii), and water may be applied. If the fissures do not heal under this treatment, lotions of sulphate of zinc or copper (gr. ij ad 5]), may be employed, or the fissures may be touched with solid nitrate of silver ; under these circumstances, suckling must be abandoned. Should septic infection occur, the fissure becomes more tender, red lines spread from it towards the axilla, and the axillary glands become enlarged ; small abscesses not uncommonly form along the course of the lymphatics, especially beneath the areola, and the general symptoms of lymphangitis are present. The treatment is that for lymphangitis (see Vol. II.). ACUTE MASTITIS. This ai^ection may make its appearance in infants almost immedi- ately after birth, especially when the breast is squeezed vigorously as is frequently done by ignorant persons ; under such circumstances inflam- mation and suppuration may take place. In other cases suppuration may not occur, but the inflammation interferes with the proper development of the organ, especially of the nipple. Acute mastitis may also occur at puberty, but is then usually non-suppurative. Suppuration is most common, however, during lactation, especially in primiparae ; it may also occur at the end of lactation. In a large number of cases sore nipples have preceded the formation of the mammary abscess and the infection has originated from them, the organisms having entered either along the lymphatics or, perhaps more commonly, along the lactiferous ducts ; in other cases a general septicaemic condition is present and the organisms may be deposited from the blood. M 2