AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE 4i6 the bladder should be opened above the pubes, the clots removed, and the cavity irrigated with sterilised salt solution at a temperature of iio° to II5°F. Spinal anaesthesia should be employed in these cases in preference to a general anaesthetic, and removal of the prostate should be proceeded with at once, if the patient's condition permits ; if not, as soon as possible afterwards. Another important complication is the presence of phosphatic calculi in the post-prostatic pouch. These are usually associated with cystitis, and cause a great deal of trouble to the patient. Litholopaxy is not suitable for these cases, and supra-pubic cystotomy should therefore be performed. Not only are the stones immediately and completely removed by this operation, but the septic condition of the urine will rapidly improve with the drainage of the bladder, and, further, there is no longer any residual urine, and therefore no likelihood of fresh deposit of phosphates. The prostate may be enucleated at the same time, or, still better, later on, when the septic condition of the urine has diminished. Radical.—Prostatectomy.—This operation is now performed quite early in the course of the disease, and especially when it becomes necessary to resort to the use of catheters. Its advantages are that the risk of complications is prevented, the cause of the obstruction is removed, the patient is able to micturate naturally, and, instead of having to pass a catheter frequently or to empty his bladder constantly, can retain his urine for several hours. His general health improves greatly after the operation. The mortality after prostatectomy is remarkably low when it is borne in mind that the majority of the patients are old and feeble. Anatomy of the prostate.—The prostate consists of two lateral lobes, which are enveloped in a common capsule formed from the peripheral portions of the gland. The lateral lobes are united to one another in front of and behind the urethra by the anterior and posterior commissures of the gland. The term middle lobe, in the strict anatomical sense, is applied to that portion of the gland which lies between the common ejaculatory ducts and the urethra. The upper surface or base of the gland is directed towards the bladder ; the posterior surface is in front of the anterior wall of the rectum, from which it is separated by a thin layer of pelvic fascia ; the apex is directed downwards and is in relation with the compressor urethrae ; the lateral surfaces lie in contact with the fascia covering the upper surface of the levator ani muscles. The urethra passes through the gland in a curved direction and somewhat nearer the posterior than the anterior surface. The common ejaculatory ducts run downwards, inwards, and forwards through the substance of the gland to enter the prostatic urethra, one on each side of the sinus pocularis. The whole gland is enclosed in a layer of fibrous tissue derived from the pelvic fascia, and in this sheath the prostatic