212 AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX chief danger arises from the fact that foreign bodies—such as pieces of clothing—may have been carried into the wound as well. In mihtary practice the wounds are due to a high-velocity bullet which inflicts little damage on the lung itself and does not remain in the chest, but usually passes through the body or is diverted to other parts ; it rarely carries foreign materials in with it. A certain amount of shock, some haemoptysis and cough, with the occurrence of haemo-thorax and pneumo-thorax, are the usual signs of these injuries. It is an important point that in warfare the extent of the haemo-thorax is greatly influenced by the subsequent transport of the patient. The greater the distance the patient has to be moved, and the rougher the means of transport, the more likely is a hasmo-thorax to follow. The haemoptysis may persist for some time. Empyema rarely follows the hsemo-thorax caused by small bullets, and spontaneous absorption of the blood is not infrequent. The haemo-thorax is often accompanied by a rise in temperature which may continue for several days. TREATMENT.—This is essentially conservative, rest and the usual treatment to combat shock and arrest htemorrhage being employed in the first instance. High-velocity bullets lodged in the lung or spine may be left alone if they cause no trouble ; if they do, the position of the bullet should be determined by a stereoscopic radiogram, and, if in an accessible position, it should be removed at once, if circumstances permit, especially if there is any doubt as to the presence of other foreign bodies. In the absence of symptoms, there is no need for immediate operation ; but if the bullet is embedded in the lung and the operation can be done under differential pressure, it is advisable to remove it before extensive changes are set up. It is possible to remove such a foreign body successfully without the aid of differential pressure, but there is considerable risk of pneumo-thorax occurring to such a degree as to embarrass the respiration and also of subsequent pyo-pneumo- thorax.