550 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER often die of suppurative pyelonephritis owing to the difficulty of preventing the occurrence of sepsis in the urine. In prophylaxis it is essential to ensure asepsis in connection with any instrumental or operative inter- ference ; if the urine is undergoing decomposition, measures must be taken to render it aseptic. The precautions requisite in operating on the lower urinary tract, and the best methods of diminishing the septic condition of the urine are referred to in connection with diseases of the bladder and the prostate. When inflammation of the renal pelvis or of the kidney has set in, the first essential is absolute rest in bed; the diet should be light and restricted—in bad cases entirely liquid-—and the urine rendered dilute. The bowels should be kept open by salines ; the slightly diuretic mineral waters, such as those of Contrexeville and Vichy, may be useful. Lumbar pain is best relieved by hot baths or fomentations; in bad cases dry-cupping over the loin, or the application of leeches (see Vol. I. p. 5) may be useful. Internal antiseptics, such as salol, benzoate of ammonia, cystopurin, or boric acid in ten-grain doses, seem to do good in some cases and may be tried, but their effects must be watched, as they may not only upset the stomach, but irritate the kidney and aggravate the pain ; boric acid is apt to irritate the stomach, and if it does, it may be administered in capsules. Quinine, in doses of five grains, three times a day, either in a pill or floating on milk, is valuable. The more chronic cases benefit from residence in a warm climate, where chills and congestion of the kidney are comparatively easily avoided. The bladder must be washed out if there is decomposition of the urine. Vaccines—preferably, autogenous ones—are much used at the present time. These measures often lead to marked improvement and may entirely cure a pyelitis. They are practically the only ones that can be adopted in a case of 'surgical kidney,' seeing that both organs are practically always affected, and that nephrectomy is therefore not advisable. A circumscribed abscess of the kidney is occasionally met with, but rarely diagnosed. In such a case, the obvious treatment is incision and drainage. It may happen that an abscess of this kind is found in connection with calculi in the substance of the kidney, or when the organ is cut down upon under the impression that a renal stone is present. PYONEPHROSIS. In this condition there is suppuration in the renal pelvis and calyces accompanied by dilatation of these structures. It may arise under three different sets of circumstances : an existing hydronephrosis may become infected and suppuration may occur in it; suppuration and dilatation may commence simultaneously in a case of obstruction low down in the unnary passages accompanied by infection of the urine ; or the pyelitis