474 AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER is now withdrawn, and the urethra is occluded either by tying an india- rubber band around it or by an assistant's fingers. ^Vhen the bladder is not very distensible, it is well to introduce a bulbous-ended metal sound into the bladder ; by depressing the handle, its point can be made to project beneath the abdominal wall just above the pubes, and the bladder wall can thus be easily defined during the operation. A vertical incision, 2| inches long, is now made from the centre of the symphysis pubis upwards. If this is strictly in the middle line it opens up the interval between the pyramidales muscles, and the loose pre- vesical cellular tissue is seen. The abdominal muscles are retracted, and inspection of the pre-vesical tissues will show the line of the peritoneal reflection. The pre-vesical fat is then torn through just above the symphysis and pushed up into the upper angle of the wound, carrying with it the reflection of the peritoneum. Special care should be taken not to open up the pre-vesical cellular tissue behind the symphysis, as this will leave a ragged cavity in which dangerous cellulitis may occur. The bladder wall is now exposed, and is recognised by its muscular coat and by the presence of large veins in it. A third retractor is used to hold up the fat and the peritoneum, and a couple of sharp hooks or, preferably, two stout silk threads are made to penetrate the whole thickness of the vesical wall, one on each side of the proposed line of incision. The advantage of the silk threads over the hooks is that in the later stages of the operation they are useful in pulling up and steadying the edges of the incision when it is desired to suture the bladder, and are not so likely to tear through as the hooks are. The bladder is then incised vertically in the middle line between the two guides, the knife being inserted at the proposed lower limit of the incision and cutting upwards. When the stone is lai'ge and a good deal of space is required, a transverse incision in the bladder wall will give more room than a longitudinal one and the attachment of the recti to the pubic bones may be divided. Directly the bladder is opened, the wound becomes flooded with fluid and the bladder tends to collapse, but its retraction is prevented by the guiding-stitches or hooks already inserted. The incision should be large enough to admit two fingers in the first instance, and may be increased later on if necessary. As soon as the incision has been made into the bladder wall, a finger is introduced, and the stone felt for and extracted with suitable litho- tomy forceps which are slipped in alongside the finger. When the stones have been removed, the edges of the opening into the bladder should be held well up by an assistant, any blood and clots flushed out with warm boric lotion, and its interior examined by the finger or a powerful light; the post-prostatic region especially must be carefully investigated both by touch and by sight ; if necessary, a ' caisson' speculum (see p. 456) should be passed down, in order to make sure that no other stone is present. If the patient is placed in the Trendelenburg position, the