456 AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER treated. In order to work through this, long-handled forceps, scissors and knives are necessary. Small ulcers may be picked up and snipped out bodily with a portion of the surrounding mucous membrane, any oozing point being stopped by temporary pressure or touched with the electric cautery. Larger ulcers cannot be dealt with in this way, but they may be scraped, or cauterised with an electric cautery or the dia- thermic electrode. When each ulcer has been treated in turn, powdered iodoform is rubbed in, and, in addition, its surface may be painted over with a saturated ethereal solution of the drug ; this should not be used, however; if the ulcerated area is extensive, as sloughing might be caused. ' It now only remains to drain the bladder by a large tube projecting into its cavity, but not reaching the trigone, and furnished with lateral holes where it is in the bladder. It should reach down to, but not touch, the internal meatus. The remainder of the incision into the bladder is then stitched up, and it is a good plan to insert one or two sutures between the edges of the portion of the bladder wall through which the tube passes and the abdominal muscles, so as to prevent the two structures being separated. A second small drainage tube is inserted into the pre-vesical space, and the skin-wound is closed by interrupted silkworm-gut sutures taking up the muscles as well as the skin. Afier-ireatmeni.—The foot of the bed is raised so as to take the pressure of the intestines off the bladder, whilst a continuous drainage apparatus (see Fig. 112) is put on over the wound and is left undisturbed for four or five days in order that a definite track may be established around the tube, which is then taken out and a fresh one introduced, and changed daily. The tube draining the pre-vesical space may be left out in three days if no suppuration occurs. The bladder should be washed out twice daily with boric lotion through the supra-pubic tube, and a dram of iodoform and glycerine emulsion (10 per cent.) intro- duced after the irrigation. Drainage should be kept up until the pus has disappeared and there are no other signs of inflammation-^ this will take at least six weeks. The greatest care must be observed in the aseptic manageinent of the case, and the skin should be carefully cleansed at each change of dressing. The pubes should be shaved and disinfected from time to time, and the drainage tube boiled each time before it is introduced into the bladder. This plan of draining the bladder continuously after the local treatment of the ulcers answers fairly well, and is a great improvement upon the method of closing the organ completely. Fig. 124.—' Caisson ' Speculum.