TUBERCULOSIS OF THE CERVICAL GLANDS 95 it ajjpears to cause abscess formation and therefore its effects must be closely watched, and, if pus forms, operative measures must be adopted. Local applications are of little value, and friction is deleterious. Good results may follow X-ray treatment. The patient must be carefully watched, as medical treatment alone should not be persisted in when it becomes evident that suppuration is taking place. When that is the case, the sooner the glands are excised the better, because delay only increases the difficulty of the operation owing to the matting of the tissues from the inflammation around. Patients should never be sent off into the country to come back in six or eight months' time ; they should ])e seen at fairly frequent intervals such as once a month, and operative measures should be adopted on the earliest sign of the gland breaking down. When the glands remain small and hard, do not produce much deformity, and betray no marked tendency to softening, the patient may be watched for a time under appropriate medical treatment [vide supra), and there is no pressing necessity for operative interference, unless the disease becomes active. As long as the glands remain quiescent, there is probably no great danger of dissemination of the disease. The following are the chief indications for operation :— 1. When there is an enlargement of the glands causing a noticeable swelling, or when the affected glands are numerous and the disease is extending, operation is generally required. When the disease has reached this stage, absorption seldom occurs, and not only does the unsightly deformity remain, but the disease tends to spread to other glands, and the ordinary medical measures seem to be of little value. Here the only possible operative procedure is excision ; scraping would be futile as numerous glands are affected, and besides it is impossible to remove the disease effectually with a spoon. Scraping can only remove the softened areas of disease and, unless the gland has completely broken down, large areas of infected gland tissue will be left and recurrence will at once take place. Not only must the enlarged glands be taken away, but also all the fat and small glands in the infected area. Should the glands beyond the area of the first operation enlarge subsequently, they also must be removed. When both sides of the neck are affected, removal of the glands on one side is sometimes followed by considerable improvement in those on the other side, and it may be unnecessary to operate on the latter if efficient medical measures are subsequently employed. 2. When the glandular trouble is very acute and leads rapidly to adhesion to the surrounding structures and to the skin, it is very import- ant that operative measures should be employed before a definite abscess has formed. While in these cases the glands sometimes subside under careful treatment, they rapidly break down, as a rule, and fairly extensive suppuration occurs ; hence they should be closely watched for this