125 INJURIES OF THE LARYNX is not at all easy to remove the upper part of the tract. In these cases the skin incision should be prolonged up towards the chin and the tongae-muscles separated until the fistulous canal is exposed above the bone ; the separation is then continued and the entire tract removed. It may be necessary to divide the hyoid bone, and if so, it is best to cut it across on each side of the middle line and turn the central portion up; this piece of bone is replaced and stitched into position after the operation is completed. A drainage tube should be placed above the hyoid bone for a few days. 0£ a cyst.—-The treatment of a cyst is likewise very troublesome. It should be removed, as it tends to increase in size and may not only cause deformity, but may interfere with the patient's comfort. Tapping is of no use whatever, while complete extirpation is even more difficult than the removal of the upper part of the fistulous tract described above, on account of the lateral extent of the cyst. Nevertheless, if the cyst is a cause of serious annoyance to the patient an attempt must be made to remove it in a manner similar to that recommended for removal of the duct. , ENLARGEMENT OF THE THYRO-HYOID BURSA. The diagnosis between this condition and a thyroglossal cyst is sometimes a matter of considerable difficulty. The distinct limitation of a bursal sac, its central situation, and the fact that it bulges below the hyoid bone rather than above it, are points in favour of a bursal swelhng. TREATMENT.—The simplest plan is to dissect out the bursa. A transverse curved incision, with its convexity downwards is made across the lower border of the cyst, and exposes its anterior wall, which is then defined laterally by pushing the tissues aside, and the bursa is slielled out. INJURIES OF THE LARYNX. FRACTURES OF THE HYOID BONE. These extremely rare injuries generally result from direct violence, such as suicide by hanging or attempts at throttling. In death from hanging, the body of the bone is often broken; whereas in attempts at throttling the fractuie usually occurs at the junction of the body with one of the cornua. The injury is generally accompanied by great pain, and, if the fracture is compound into the throat, as it frequently is, there may be severe haemorrhage from the mouth ; difficulty in swallowing and speaking may be also very marked. Severe dyspnoea with constant cough and expectoration are very