AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS 3i6 of secretion occurring from its surface afterwards, it is well to brush it over lightly with undiluted carbolic acid and then wash away any excess of the acid with sublimate solution. Great care must be taken to stop all bleeding, because a considerable haematoma may form if oozing continues after the wound is closed, and this would delay healing ; it is impossible to apply direct pressure to stop this oozing. The wound is closed with a fine continuous button-hole suture, the incison being put slightly on the stretch by blunt hooks introduced at the upper and lower angles, and care must be taken in doing this to see that the edges of the skin do not curl in. A drainage tube should be introduced into the lower angle of the wound for twenty-four hours ; this will not delay the progress of the case. Dressings similar to those for the radical cure of hernia (see Vol. IV. p. 490) are applied, and the sutures may be removed on the fifth day. The patient may be allowed to get up at the end of the first week, and the scrotum should be well supported by a suspensory bandage or by a mass of wool in the perineum, kept in position by a bandage in the form of a St. Andrew's cross. Eversion of the sac.—This method is a useful alternative to the above. It has the advantage over excision that it is easier to make sure of complete haemostasis, and therefore there is less risk of a troublesome hsematoma afterwards. The operation is commenced as before (see Fig. 74), but after the tunica vaginalis has been turned out of the scrotum, and has been incised, it is not chpped away, but turned back over the epididymis and cord, in two flaps, which are united with catgut sutures (see Fig. 75). The operation is completed as before. CONGBISriTAL HYDROCELE.—Here the funicular process is open from the peritoneal cavity down to the bottom of the scrotum, and the hydrocele fluid is in direct communication with the peritoneal cavity. The aperture into the abdomen varies much in size; it may be large enough to allow the descent of a hernia or it may be a mere pin-hole. There is a distinct impulse on coughing if the communication is at all free, and in any case the fluid will return into the abdomen by gravity when the patient lies down ; the rate at which this disappears may give some indication as to the size of the communication. Treatment.—These hydroceles are generally noticed soon after birth, Fig. 75.—Eversion of a Hy- drocele Sac. The figure shows the tunica vaginalis everted and the sutures inserted.