OPERATIONS FOR PULMONARY FISTULA 245 The after-treatment is similar to that for the other forms of abscess of the lung (see p. 243), but, although the immediate results may be satis- factory; the constitutional symptoms may rapidly disappear, and the discharge lose its purulent character, the final results are by no means always good, as a sinus discharging thin muco-pus may remain practically indefinitely. We have had one very interesting case in which a boot-button was extracted through the chest-wall after incision of an empyema which communicated directly with an abscess of the lung ; through this track the foreign body was felt with a probe and with- drawn. The abscess cavity rapidly contracted, but a bronchial sinus has persisted up to the present time, and has now existed for over twelve years in spite of plastic operations and various other measures designed to obtain closure. The patient has, however, not suffered in any way from the persistence of the sinus, beyond the inconvenience of having to have it dressed repeatedly. He has no signs of lardaceous disease, and the only trouble is a small sinus which communicates directly with the left bronchus, and discharges a thin mucoid fluid, but practically no pus (see King's College Hospital Reports, vol. ii. p. 97). Mr. *kutherford Morison, in the Med. Soc. Trans, vol. xxxii. 1909, pp. 6-10, publishes a case of pulmonectomy for a foreign body which had been in the lung for two years ; the patient died twenty-six days after the operation. Mr. Kellock, in the Lancet of January 11, 1913. publishes a case of removal of a foreign body from the lung by direct incision. PULMONARY FISTULA. These may occur after various operations on the lungs and after the opening of pulriionary abscesses, bronchiectases, or the removal of foreign bodies [vide supra). Two conditions may be met with: in the one the fistula is narrow, lined throughout with epithelium, causes little or no inconvenience to the patient, and may be left alone. In other cases the fistulae are large, and so much air may pass out as seriously to interfere with the aeration of the rest of the lung, or a suppurating cavity may intervene between the bronchus and the external opening. In such cases it may be necessary to make an attempt to close the fistula. This may be done by destroying the epithelial lining—if such exists—■ closing the opening in the lung, and resecting small portions of the ribs around, so as to let the soft parts fall in. The closure of the opening may be done by stitches inserted deeply in the thickened tissues around, the external parts also being brought closely together over it. When one of the larger bronchi is involved, it may be isolated, the wall crushed and ligatured, the end inverted into the bronchus, and closed in by stitches in the healthy tissues over it, as in invagination of a divided portion of intestine.