AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE 414 Catheter fever.—^Attacks of so-called ' catheter fever ' may occur in any patient who has to use catheters. The attack is ushered in by shivering, accompanied by high temperature, which in ordinary cases lasts only a few hours and then passes off. This attack may, however, be followed by suppression of urine or septic troubles in the kidney. The exact pathology of catheter fever is uncertain. By some it is held to be always due to a septic infection, but this can hardly be the case, as the rigor may follow the passage of a catheter within a few moments, and on this hypothesis it must be due to a toxin absorbed through some scratch in the prostatic urethra, since there would not be time for any bacterial development in the body before the onset of the symptoms. It is very unlikely, however, that a sufficient amount of toxin can be taken in on a catheter which has undergone even moderate cleansing. It would seem that true catheter fever is a reflex nervous phenomenon, and the suppression of urine occurring in connection with it must also be reflex. Should the catheter fever be complicated by sepsis, the original mischief goes on to a more serious septic condition. In order to avoid the occurrence of this complication, the instrument should be passed only in the patient's own house in the first instance, and if he be elderly, he should be kept in bed for some hours before the catheterisation. The treatment of an attack of catheter fever is to administer stimulants and apply hot bottles until the attack has passed off. When there is a history of these attacks after passing instruments, it is well to give a dose of 5 to 10 grains of quinine an hour or two before the catheter has to be passed, and to take special precautions to guard the patient from exposure during the proceeding. As a rule, the tendency becomes less as time goes on, and the patient may ultimately pass the catheter without any trouble. Of complications.—The treatment of cystitis must follow the lines laid down for that affection in Chap. XLIII. When it occurs in the early stages of the disease, local measures should be avoided as far as possible, and the various general treatment recommended on p. 445 should be employed. Should the cystitis continue and become chronic, however, local treatment will be necessary. In the first instance irrigation of the bladder (see p. 447) is important ; instillations (see p. 449) may also be called for, provided that they do not set up irritation. In worse cases, continuous drainage (see p. 447) may be necessary. In very bad cases, it may be necessary to open and drain the bladder—preferably above the pubes—should the patient be unable to stand a radical operation or should he refuse it. In all these cases, a culture may be made of the organisms present in the urine, and a suitable vaccine prepared and administered. The colon bacillus, or an organism belonging to that group, is very frequently found. Retention of urine should be treated on the lines detailed in Chap. XXXVI.; but there are certain special points to be attended to in