EPITHELIOMA 277 with the knife. When the crura have been detached, the entire penis is removed by a few touches of the knife. We are not inchned to per- form castration simultaneously with the amputation, as some surgeons recommend, because of the sei'ious psychical effects that may follow the operation. After the bleeding has been arrested, a drainage tube is inserted at the anterior angle and the two halves of the scrotum are united by inter- rupted sutures of silkworm-gut, an interval being left at the posterior end of the perineal incision, to the sides of which the ui'ethra is sutured. In order to prevent a stricture at the outlet, the urethra should be slit laterally on each side so as to make a small anterior and posterior flap which can be attached to the edges of the skin. Gauze dressings are applied, and are kept in position by a T-bandage. The patient micturates spontaneously, the dressings being removed and renewed every time he does so. The functional result of this operation is often much better than that of the other method. The patient does not wet himself, whereas in cases of amputation just in front of the scrotum the urine is very apt to spray out and set i:p eczema scroti. This operation may also be performed without division of the scrotum. The patient is placed in the lithotomy position and an incision made from the root of the scrotum to the central point of the perineum. This is then deepened and the posterior part of the urethra exposed and divided about an inch in front of the triangular ligament. This portion of the urethra is turned back and the corpora cavernosa are exposed by dissecting towards the sides of the incision. The branches of the internal pudic arteries going to the bulb and to the corpora cavernosa should be secured if possible before dividing them, and if this can be satisfactorily accomplished there will be very little hcemorrhage. The bulb and the crura are then freed from their attachments to the triangular ligament and pubic arch, so that the penis is attached merely by skin and by the fibrous tissue between the organ and the pubic symphysis. A circular incision is then made round the root of the penis, and, by putting a little traction on the organ, it can be removed with a few touches of the knife and without any further haemorrhage. The posterior incision is then closed after attaching the urethra in the manner already described. The anterior incision can also be sutured, a small hole being left for the insertion of a drainage tube. In all of these operations the glands in the groin should be removed either at the same time as the amputation—a proceeding which is to be preferred from the point of view of recurrence—or, subsequently, if it is feared that immediate removal would entail too severe an operation. All the inguinal glands, and also those along the femoral vein, should be taken away, together with the fat and fascia in the neighbourhood. When infected glands extend into the ihac fossa, amputation of the penis is contra-indicated, except possibly when the local trouble is very