261 PHIMOSIS clean and free from adhesion. It is important to caution her not to keep the prepuce back for any length of time, otherwise it may become swollen and there may be difficulty in pulling it forward again ; in other words, paraphimosis may occur. In the course of a week or two the cure is complete and there is no likelihood of the adhesions recurring. If, however, a considerable raw surface is left when the prepuce is retracted, it is best to proceed to circumcision, because balanitis must otherwise result and the treatment will be painful and probably imperfect. Some surgeons object to circumcision and prefer to dilate the narrowed preputial orifice repeatedly with a special instrument like a glove-stretcher until the tendency to contraction has been completely overcome. This method, however, is unsatisfactory and if employed, must be done gently, so as to avoid any cracking of the mucous membrane, which would give rise to inflammation and cicatricial contraction. There is no valid objection to circumcision, and indeed it possesses great advantages, especially as a precautionary measure against masturbation. Circumcision.—This operation may be performed in various ways ; the method that we prefer is as follows. The preputial orifice is seized on each side of the middle line with catch-forceps, pulled well forward, and put upon the stretch. One blade of a pair of blunt-pointed scissors is insinuated between the prepuce and the glans and the whole thickness of the prepuce is slit up in the middle line of the dorsum as far as the corona glandis (see Fig. 64, A). Care must be taken that the blade of the scissors does not injure the glans or pass into the meatus; it is sufficient to mention the risk of such an occurrence, which should not happen with the exercise of ordinary care. As soon as the first incision has been made, the glans is seen, and can be freed from the adherent prepuce right back beyond the corona. A third pair of forceps is placed upon the frenum and the redundant prepuce is cut away on each side (see Fig. 64, B) with scissors. Enough mucous membrane must be left to overlap the corona comfortably and, if the parts are divided as shown in the figure, the frenum will not be touched, and therefore the unsightly oedematous swelling, which takes a long time to disappear and which is so often seen after this operation, will be avoided. The incision usually runs about a quarter of an inch from the corona, and this leaves sufficient prepuce to cover the latter easily. Any bleeding points are twisted ; it is very important to stop all haemorrhage before proceeding to suture the cutaneous to the mucous surface, otherwise bleeding may occur into the substance of the prepuce and lead to an unsightly and troublesome hcematoma. Fine catgut sutures are now made to approximate the cutaneous and mucous surfaces, so as to secure primary union everywhere. It is usually sufficient in the case of young children to place one suture on the dorsum, one at the frenum, and one about half an inch to each side of the frenum, hut in adults more sutures