AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER 466 and this may be of a severe septic character and may exiaaust the patient and eventually cause death from ' surgical kidney.' The straming in passing water due to stone in the bladder is a common cause of prolapse of the rectum or haemorrhoids. TREATMENT.—As the calculus is a foreign body, the only possible treatment is to remove it by surgical means. In former times, attempts have been, and even now still are, made to dissolve the stone either by drugs admmistered internally or by injections into the bladder. These attempts are quite futile. There is no doubt that a patient is often reheved by a course of treatment at mineral springs, such as those of Vichy, Carlsbad, or Contrexeville, but this is not due to the waters exerting any solvent action upon a stone which is already present. Symptoms similar to those of stone are frequently due to the passage of highly concentrated urine or small crystals, and this condition may be improved by drugs or by a cure at one of the foregoing health resorts. Even when a stone is present, a certain amount of relief is obtained—probably by the beneficial effect of the waters upon the cystitis present. Some authorities recommend the injection of solvents into the bladder in these cases, but the only condition in which this method might be at all useful would be when there is a large phosphatic incrustation which cannot otherwise be detached ; the frequently repeated injection of a weak solution of hydrochloric acid into the bladder may end by loosening the phosphatic deposits, which may afterwards be washed out with an evacuator. Prophylactic treatment.-—^This is identical with that of renal cal- culus (see Chap. LV.), as the stone is generally renal in origin. In order to prevent the formation of phosphatic concretions, when there is cystitis with the presence of mucus, the bladder should be washed out daily with warm saline solution or boric lotion ; this is especially advisable in cases of enlarged prostate. Operative treatment. — At the present day, the surgeon has the choice between removmg the stone by lithotomy or litholopaxy. Choice of method.—It may -be said generally that litholopaxy is the operation of choice in all cases, whether in an adult or a child, in which the urinary organs are healthy and the stone is not too large. It removes the stone satisfactorily and the patient's convalescence is rapid. Lithotomy, however, is advisable— 1. When the stone is large ; the exact dimensions varying in the practice of individual surgeons. 2. The composition of the stone is also of importance, for a large uric acid stone is easier to crush than a smaller oxalate one, and when there are two or three oxalate calcuh it is better to substitute supra- pubic Uthotomy for litholopaxy. 3. Another condition demanding lithotomy is an insufficiently dilat- able bladder, such as occurs in connection with a calculus that has been