INFLAMMATION OF THE PLEURA 221 If, however, the incision is to be made in the ninth space just external to the angle of the scapula—which is the most dependent point when drainage is likely to be wanted for some time, and is also the lowest point at which the pleural cavity is most certain to be opened witliout danger of the track becoming too oblique from the upward protrusion of the diaphragm—it will be necessary to turn the patient over on to the affected side. The patient should not be turned on to the sound side unless in exceptional cases, otherwise the respiration may be seriously hampered. The operation must be conducted aseptically because, although bacteria are present in the abscess cavity, it is essential not to introduce fresh ones from without. Those in the pleura have probably largely lost their virulence, and experience shows that with free drainage they quicklv die out. This is especially important in pneumococcal cases and in those due to the tubercle bacillus ; in tlie latter, the addition of sepsis greatly diminishes the chances of cure. Much discussion has taken place as to whether the opening should be made through the intercostal space or whether a portion of rib should be removed as well. In favour of opening up the intercostal space it is urged that in many cases there is quite enough room, especially when the chest is bulging, and that, although removal of a rib may be of temporary advantage, it does not really give rise to more perfect drainage, because new bone rapidly forms and the opening becomes small. This is quite true in many cases in children when the periosteum of the rib is not taken away also ; but by resecting a portion of the rib, a much better opening is obtained for the immediate purposes of the operation, because the surgeon can introduce his finger into the pleural cavity and explore it thoroughly, and, moreover, in many cases—especially those of pneumococcal origin—the period required for drainage is so short that the question of regeneration of the rib is of no importance. On the other hand, in cases due to streptococcal infection, or in those in which the drainage is likely to be prolonged, regeneration may be prevented by clipping away the periosteum after the rib has been removed. Ihe permanent loss of a portion of the rib seems to be of no consequence whatever to the patient, and inflammation and necrosis of the ends of the bones exposed to the action of the pus is rare. We advise therefore, that a portion of the rib should always be resected. The operation is generally done just as quickly—and in some cases more quickly, as there is less trouble with the bleeding—while the immediate investigation and clearing out of the cavity are much more satisfactorily accomplished. After the surgeon has settled which rib to resect, the skin is steadied and put upon the stretch by the forefinger and thumb placed above and below that portion of the rib, and the knife is carried right down to the outer surface of the bone along its centre and parallel to its long axis,