ORGANIC STRICTURE 365 may be single or multiple. In very bad cases a considerable length of the urethra may be affected, the tightness of the obstruction varying at different places and giving the impression of a number of independent strictures; as a rule the canal between these multiple strictures is also contracted. The prostatic urethra is never the seat of either a spasmodic or an organic stricture. When spasm occurs in its neighbourhood, it is in the neck of the bladder itself and not in the urethral canal. When it occurs in the bulbous urethra the stricture is usually exten- sive and consists of dense newly formed fibrous tissue, and is sometimes spoken of as a callous stricture. The chief formation of fibrous tissue occurs in the floor of the urethra, and the urethral canal is displaced upwards, the roof being scarcely if at all affected ; sometimes, however, the thickening is lateral, and the urethral canal is diverted to one side. Sometimes the material forming the stricture is extremely elastic, and to this form the term resilient stricture is applied. These strictures are usually quite narrow and are most frequently met with in the penile portion. They are important from the point of view of treatment as, although they dilate easily, they do not undergo absorption as does the callous form. A tliird form is sometimes termed a bridle stricture. In this the inflammation is practically limited to the floor of the canal and the mucous membrane becomes raised as a sort of valve or band across the lumen ; these strictures occur in the anterior part of the urethra. Organic stricture of the urethra is a most serious condition, as the interference with the outflow of urine causes marked changes in the whole of the urinary tract behind it. The urethra becomes dilated imme- diately behind the obstruction, and in bad cases a large pouch may be formed. In this situation, too, the urethra becomes thinned and inflamed and may be ulcerated, so that rupture may occur when the patient micturates ; this complication leads to extravasation of urine. Short of rupture, the inflammation may extend into the peri-urethral tissues and give rise to an abscess communicating with the urethra, into which urine will be forced every time the patient passes water. In this way a urinary abscess is formed, and extravasation of urine may occur if the wall of the abscess gives way, or the abscess may open in the perineum and a perineal urinary fistula may be established. Changes also occur in the bladder owing to the difficulty in evacuating its contents. In the early stages there is hypertrophy and diminution in capacity, whilst in later stages the organ becomes atrophied and dilated. Cystitis is a common complication and may be very severe ; it may occur independently of the use of instruments, but the latter are frequently the vehicles for the introduction of the organisms, and all the conditions most favourable to the spread of septic inflammation are met with behind the stricture.