CHOLANGITIS 33 which is vmdertaken on the assumption that gall-stones are present. Jaundice is rarely met with. TREATMENT.—Should the condition be diagnosed before opera- tive interference is undertaken, the treatment sliould be directed to careful regulation of the diet, prescribing proper exercise, and promoting peristaltic action by the administration of suitable laxatives. Occasionally small doses of morphine may be necessary for the attacks of colic. Should the affection persist in spite of this treatment and cause the patient trouble, the abdomen should be opened and the gall-bladder drained for a few weeks (see p. 48). This will generally cure the condition, the mucous membrane returning to its normal condition. If the cystic duct is blocked, cholecystectomy sliould be performed. CHOLANGITIS. This affection is usually divided into the suppurative and the non- suppurative forms. About the latter we need say nothing, as it is simply the ordinary catarrhal jaundice, which should be treated by medical means. Catarrhal jaundice may also follow a simple catarrhal cholecystitis which spreads from the gall-bladder down the cystic into the common duct. SUPPURATIVE CHOLANGITIS. This affection is generally divided into two groups. In the one, the suppuration affects the main ducts and is termed ' suppurative cholan- gitis' whilst in the other the primary branches of the bile-ducts are also affected and the disease is termed 'diffuse cholangitis.' Both affections are bacterial in origin, and the most frequent factor in their production is undoubtedly the presence of gall-stones. Occasionally foreign bodies, such as an intestinal worm or an hydatid in the bile-passages, may set up the affection, whilst it also occurs in connection with typhoid fever, appendicitis, pyaemia, or dysentery. When any of the latter group of causes is at work, the affection is apt to assume the diffuse form, whilst suppuration limited to the common duct is more frequent when the mischief is set up by a foreign body such as a gall-stone. Suppurative cholangitis is usually connected with the presence of gall-stones in the common duct, the organisms finding their way up from the bowel. The symptoms are similar to those of the diffuse form, but not so severe. There is high fever with deep and persistent jaundice, which however is variable in degree. The liver is not enlarged and the gall-bladder is not distended. The patient may remain in this condition for a considerable time, a certain amoixnt of the bile finding its way alongside the stone into the duodenum, exacerbations occurring when V. D