AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER 442 operation, the vagina is packed with gauze, and a catheter is kept in the bladder for a few days. The gauze plug may be taken out at the end of twenty-four hours, and the vagina frequently irrigated with a I in 4000 sublimate solution. The forms of plastic operation which have been devised for this condition are too various to be given here : for these a text book devoted to the special surgery of this region should be consulted. FOREIGN BODIES IN THE BLADDER. A great variety of objects—such as lead pencils, hairpins, or portions of a catheter—have been met with in the bladder, and, apart from their size or their liability to penetrate the bladder walls, their mere presence gives rise to irritation, and they soon become encrusted with phosphates and form the nuclei of vesical calculi. The symptoms to which they give rise are mainly those of cystitis (see Chap. XLIIL), and later on of stone (see Chap. XLVL). The diagnosis is easily made if the true history can be obtained ; failing that, inspection by the cystoscope will show the foreign body, and its nature can readily be recognised before it becomes encrusted. Should it have become the nucleus of a stone, its peculiar shape will often lead to a suspicion of its true nature. TRBATMBISTT.—The foreign body should be removed as soon as possible, and its removal is comparatively easy in the female, in whom it is perhaps more common than in the male, and in whom the urethra may be dilated, and the body removed by suitable forceps; it will hardly ever be large enough tc require a cutting operation. In the male, however, the case is different. In certain cases—e.g. when a piece of catheter is in the bladder—a lithotrite may be employed, and it may be necessary to break up the foreign body with it before it can be extracted safely; if the body is quite small it may be washed into the eye of a large evacuating-catheter. If the body is not suitable for this method of treatment it should be removed by supra-pubic cystotomy.