5o6 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER completely cut across, contractions—but no efflux—are observed at the ureteric orifice. In complete blockage of the ureter, high up, as in closed hydronephrosis; a feeble contraction may be observed at the ureteric orifice at long intervals. The efflux is more copious when polyuria is in progress; and in such cases the increased volume can be distinguished at the ureteric orifice ; ureteric contraction occurs also with greater frequency. Such polyuria may result from diuretics, or it is observed in such surgical diseases as early tuberculosis, advanced interstitial nephritis, from long-continued obstruction (stricture, enlarged prostate), and occasionally in calculus. The presence of an irritant such as calculus in the ureter, or of acute or subacute inflammation of the renal pelvis or ureter (as in bacillus coli, or other infections), causes an increased frequency of contraction of the ureter, and each contraction is more vigorous. In some cases of acute ureteritis, each contraction seen at the ureteric orifice amounts to a spasm. The observation of a purulent efflux depends upon the quantity of pus present in the urine. A trace of pus in the urine, sufficient to produce a slightly cloudy urine in a test-tube, cannot be distinguished at the ureteric orifice unless there are solid flakes in the urine. A decidedly cloudy urine, containing pus and debris, momentarily clouds the cystoscopic view as it shoots from the ureter, and then the medium clears again as the cloud diffuses. A urine which shows a distinct murky jet at the ureteric meatus will appear much more opaque when collected in a glass jar. In advanced suppurative disease of the kidney, when only a small quantity of urine is secreted, a worm of semi-solid, waxy-looking pus is seen to issue from the ureter, roll down the side of the ureteric ridge, and break off, to be succeeded after an interval by another pipe of pus. Blood in the urine can be detected at the ureteric orifice when the urine is tinged with colour, and is very evident when severe renal hsematuria is in progress. In severe haemorrhage, a clot may be observed projecting from the ureter as a dark, brownish-black, irregular mass, which may project and recede at each ureteric contraction and allow a trickle of light-red blood to pass alongside. Changes at the ureteric orifice form an important indication of renal disease. The absence of the ureteric orifice indicates that the kidney is absent on that side. A ureteric orifice and a ureter patent for several inches may, however, be present when the corresponding kidney is absent or completely atrophic. A double ureteric orifice indicates the presence of a double ureter. The orifices are usually situated close alongside each other on a broad ureteric ridge.