AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER 536 enlarging the wound sufficiently to secure disinfection of the soft parts. When the injury is more severe and is accompanied by brisk haematuria and signs of accumulation of fluid in the loin or in the peritoneum, it is desirable either to enlarge the opening sufficiently to expose the kidney, or else to make a fresh incision in the lumbar region. The treatment of the damaged organ itself will be carried out on the lines already laid down for subcutaneous lacerations. Hernia of the kidney. — The kidney is sometimes protruded partially or entirely through the wound in the loin, and the treatment will then depend upon the condition of the viscus. If it is seriously damaged and there is little chance of its recovery, it will of course require removal. Slighter forms of injury must receive treatment on the lines already laid down (vide supra). Among the rare results of injury to the kidney, the formation of an aneurysm of one of the branches of the renal artery may be mentioned. It is unnecessary to go into the treatment of this condition because the diagnosis is seldom made during life, most of the recorded cases having been looked upon as malignant tumours of the kidney. Should such a case be diagnosed during life, the only treatment is nephrectomy, and the feasability of this depends largely upon whether the renal artery itself is involved or not, and whether it is possible to apply a ligature between it and the aorta. INJURIES OF THE URETER. Injuries of the ureter may occur independently of injury of the kidney, and are most common as the result of some abdominal operation. Subcutaneous rupture of the ureter is known, but the accident is extremely rare. The symptoms are collapse, haematuria, pain and tenderness, vomiting, and the formation of a swelling in the iliac region. Should the condition be diagnosed, the treatment will be to expose and attempt to repair the torn ureter or, failing that, to implant it into the bladder or the bowel [vide infra), or to bring it out in the loin. When this is impossible nephrectomy will be necessary. The most important cases are those in which the injury occurs during some abdominal operation, such as hysterectomy or ovariotomy. They may be divided into four groups :— [a) Complete division of the ureter. [h) Complete division with removal of a portion of the ureter. (c) Partial division of the ureter. [d) Inclusion of a portion of the ureter in a ligature followed by sloughing. Sloughing of the ureter may also occur after child-birth from prolonged pressure. The injury may be recognised immediately it occurs, or it may not