RUPTURE 435 be sewn up with a double row of sutures, if possible. When it is due to a bullet, there will probably be two openings in the bladder, and the edges will be contused ; it may therefore be necessary to pare the edges before stitching up the openings, so as to have clean-cut wounds which will unite by first intention. The next point is to prevent urinary infiltration. When the wound is clean cut and involves a portion of the bladder covered by peritoneum, the urine collects in the peritoneal cavity ; after this has been sponged out and the rent in the bladder sutured, there is no need for drainage, and the abdominal wall can be closed in the usual manner. When, however, the wound mvolves the cellular tissue and a part of the bladder uncovered by peritoneum, it is well to insert large drainage tubes so as to allow the freest possible escape for the discharges. Urine must already have infiltrated the cellular tissue to some extent in these cases; and although the small amount that has entered the tissues will not do any great harm if the urine is aseptic and the wound kept free from further infection, there is nevertheless a risk of serious septic complications ; moreover, the wound may not unite satisfactorily and leakage may occur subsequently. A point in the aftey-treatuient which requires consideration is whether or not a catheter should be left in the bladder. The great objection to this procedure is the risk of introducing sepsis, and when the wound is clean cut and the opening in the bladder has been satisfactorily closed, it is best to leave the patient to pass water naturally. On the other hand, when there is an extensive rupture of the bladder—and especially if the wound is contused—it is hardly safe to allow the bladder to become distended, and, besides, every time the patient passes water the stitches are pulled upon and the union may give way. In these cases, therefore, it is well to tie in a catheter for a few days, especially when the wound has involved the portion of the viscus uncovered by peritoneum. RUPTURE. The bladder may be ruptured without there being any wound in tlie skin. This accident is a common complication of fracture of the pelvis, and the bladder may be lacerated by a shaip fragment of the pelvis, or the urethra may be injured and the laceration may extend into the neck of the bladder. In some cases, the wall of the bladder may be ruptured without any perforation from without. This can only occur when the bladder is distended, and usually takes place in elderly subjects with large prostates as a result of a blow upon the anterior surface of the abdomen. It may also occur from violent compression of the abdomen without fracture of the pelvis, and it is said to occur during severe straining in passing water m people who