179 CARCINOMA affected breast—may be done after an interval of a week or ten days, and the operation performed on both sides should be the one described below. By some authors atrophic cancer is looked upon as a form of the disease for which operation is undesirable. From this view, however, we would dissent. Not only is the operation desirable, but the results are extremely favourable, and, although a patient with atrophic scirrhus may not necessarily die for some years if unoperated upon, she is very apt to have much suffering in connection with the spread of the disease, and at any time the tumour may take on active growth. There seems no reason whatever why the patient should not be freed of the disease simply because it is slow-growing, and although formerly, when partial operations were performed, rapid recurrence often took place, we have never had any such experience in these cases when a suitable extensive operation has been performed. Radical treatment. — However small the tumour may be, the operation in all cases should aim at removing the entire breast and its corresponding lymphatic area as high as the apex of the axilla. The latter step is necessary because the disease extends into the lymphatic system at a very early period and is carried to the neighbouring lymphatic glands ; from these it soon passes on to succeeding groups. Thus it affects first the lower group of glands in the axilla, then the upper, then the glands in the posterior triangle, from which it extends to those at the root of the neck and in the mediastinum. If there is marked infection of the glands at the apex of the axilla, the root of the neck should also be opened up and the glands removed, but in a considerable number of cases this is not necessary. Tlie lymphatic distribution in connection icith the breast, according to Sappey, commences in the form of small plexuses around the acini whence vessels run along the ducts, joining with others from the adjacent acini and forming plexuses around the ducts. These plexuses increase in size until they reach the nipple, and thus lymph from all parts of the gland is carried to the nipple in the first instance. Here they form a plexus beneath the areola (the ' sub-areolar plexus ' of Sappey) and from this three or four large lymphatic trunks carry the lymph from the breast and the skin in its vicinity to the axillary glands. These lymphatic vessels run in the fat between the breast and the axilla in the neighbourhood of the lower border of the pectoralis minor. Since the publication of Sappey's description, it has been found by pathological and clinical investigation that there are other paths b}' which the lymph may be conveyed from the breast. Thus, lymphatics run from the plexuses around the lobules of the breast along the suspensory ligaments of Astley Cooper to join the plexuses in the deeper parts of the skin, and plugs of cancer-cells have been found in the vessels in these hgaments. Another very important distribution is by vessels N 2