ENLARGEMENT 67 If the patient's condition is good and there is no particular hurry, the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum should be divided separately between forceps. When the gastro-splenic omentum has been thus divided the lieno-renal ligament comes at once into view and the in- dividual branches of the splenic vessels may be isolated,tied in two places, and divided between the ligatures. It is important to tie the ligatures before the spleen is actually removed, otherwise the forceps controlling the vessels are pulled high up under the dome of the diaphragm and the ligatures are very difficult to tie. The number of ligatures will vary according to the breadth of the pedicle. In cases of great enlargement the vessels are of enormous size, but if they are methodically seized in two pairs of clamp-forceps, as directed above, there is no difficulty in securing a bloodless operation and no need to employ massive ligatures. The ends of the ligatures should be left long until the pedicle has been completely divided and carefully examined to see that there is no bleeding ; they may then be cut short and the pedicle dropped into the abdomen. When the patient is feeble and time is of importance, the best plan is to clamp the pedicle and the other attachments of the spleen at once with long pressure-forceps and to cut the organ away rapidly. When this has been done, attention is turned to the vessels behind the clamps, which should be tied by a series of interlocking ligatures applied sufficiently far back to obviate any risk of slipping. There must be no traction upon the pedicle as the hgature is tightened. If there is time, the more important vessels may also be picked up and tied separately upon the face of the pedicle. Should oozing continue, although all obvious bleeding points have been tied, it may be necessary to pack the cavity with gauze, in which case it will be imperative to leave a portion of the abdominal incision open. This, however, should rarely be necessary because the operation should not be undertaken if the adhesions are bad enough to cause much oozing. The aftci'-tyeatment is that for laparotomy in general, the abdominal waU being sutured in three layers as usual (see Vol. IV. p. 214). It may be necessary to employ intravenous saline infusion when the shock has been considerable or, in cases of splenectomy performed for injury, when the combined shock and loss of blood have rendered the patient very collapsed.