8o AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK skin of the neck, bind down the chin, or pull the head to one side and produce a condition closely resembling torticollis. TREATMENT.—This does not differ from that of cicatrices after burns elsewhere. Division and removal of the cicatrices and fibrous bands, followed by skin-grafting or, if necessary, plastic operations, should be adopted, and these have been fully described (see Vol. I. p. 157, and Vol. III. pp. 488-503). It is possible that good results may also be obtained by cataphoresis with chlorides in these cases (see B.M.J., 1912, vol. ii. p. 488) ; zinc ionisation has also been spoken well of, but care must be taken lest it produces ulceration. INJURIES. CUT-THROAT. These may be either suicidal or homicidal; in the latter case the structures are generally more extensively damaged than in the former, and it is in them especially that wounds of the important vessels and nerves of the neck most frequently occur. In suicidal cases the chief damage is as a rule inflicted on the left side, but the sterno-mastoid by contracting frequently protects the large vessels from injury. The extent and situation of the wound varies considerably. Usually the incision runs across the thjnro-hyoid membrane or just above the hyoid bone. In suicidal cases it is rare for the trachea itself to be opened ; the thyroid cartilage may, however, be cut through. It is rare for the carotid artery or the internal jugular vein to be injured ; the bleeding usually comes from veins—such as the facial, superior thyroid, and lingual. It is most convenient to divide cases of cut throat into those in which the air-passages are not implicated and those in which they are involved. Wounds not involving the air-passages.—Wounds through the thyro-hyoid membrane or above the hyoid bone do not necessarily implicate the air-passages although, when carried deeply, they may do so. When the incision passes through the thyro-hyoid space, the base of the epiglottis may be cut across, the glottis injured and obstruction to respiration produced, either at once or later on from oedema. In this case also there may be free bleeding from the lingual or superior thyroid vessels. The superior laryngeal nerve may also be divided, and in this, as well as in the next group of cases, the blood may pass down into the trachea and actually choke the patient. When the wound is above the hyoid bone, part of the epiglottis may be severed and the pharynx opened, but in that case there is not necessarily any communication with the larynx or trachea. If there is a deep wound above the hyoid bone there may be very free bleeding from the lingual or facial vessels, and the tongue muscles may be cut through