405 TUMOURS TUMOURS. CYSTS. Cysts due to dilatation of the glandular follicles are not uncommon. They are present in many cases of enlarged prostate, but as a rule they give rise to no symptoms. When they are so large as to project into the bladder, they are generally mistaken for an enlarged prostate or an adenoma of the gland. Echinococcus cysts are sometimes met with in the prostate, but the majority of the hydatid cysts in this region arise in the cellular tissue between the prostate and the rectum. TREATMENT.—If a cyst gives rise to symptoms and can be diagnosed, it should be opened and enucleated either through a perineal incision when it is situated on the lower aspect of the organ, or through a supra-pubic cystotomy when it projects into the bladder cavity. When an echinococcus cyst is low down and comparatively small, an attempt should be made to reach it from the perineum by a transverse curved incision in front of the anus. Free drainage must be provided through the perineal wound, because septic infection can hardly be avoided. When the cyst is larger and projects upwards towards the anterior abdominal wall, it will be better to perform laparotomy, and then, after fixing the cyst to the abdominal wall, to open and drain it. These cysts should never be opened from the rectunr. CANCER. Cancer of the prostate is not uncommon, and is usually of the columnar- celled type. It is characterised by enlargement and fixation of the gland, which feels hard and nodular on rectal examination ; excessive pain is a very common symptom even in the early stages, and much bleeding may occur when the tumour ulcerates. If a prostate is hard, fixed, and very painful—even if only slightly enlarged—malignant disease should always be suspected. Micturition is often extremely painful and generally difficult. It should be noted, however, that a patient may empty his bladder completely even when there is a large mass of new growth. Microscopic examination of prostates which have been enucleated for simple enlargement not infrequently shows the presence of malig- nant disease. Hence a guarded prognosis should always be given in cases of enlarged prostate until such examination has been made. Malignant prostates are more adherent and do not shell out so easily as the ordinary enlarged glands do.