AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK no finger until it can be swept well around the upper pole where the superior thyroid vessels can often be felt pulsating, or can be seen as a whitish band by hooking the forefinger around the upper part of the lobe, pulling it forcibly forward and at the same time retracting the sterno-mastoid. The vessels are seized, and divided between two pairs of forceps. Another method, which is especially suited for very large tumours, is to divide the deep fascia in the line of the skin incision, and then dissect up a flap of all the tissues superficial to the infra-hyoid muscles, sufficiently high to give free access to the upper pole of the tumour. A similar separation may be made below the incision to enable the lower pole of the tumour to be exposed. The muscles on the side to be removed are then divided as high up in the neck as possible, separated from those of the opposite side, turned downwards and held out of the way with a retractor ; the upper ends of the muscles are also retracted. Great care must be taken not to cut into the veins in the capsule of the tumour in dividing the muscles. The upper pole of the lobe to be removed is then cleared as before until the superior thyroid vessels are exposed. The division of the superior thyroid vessels and the accompanying ' dislocation ' of the enlarged lobe marks the most critical period of the operation. Up to this point there should have been no violent disturbance of the relation of parts, as the separation of the structures superficial to the gland can be easily carried out by a single finger swept around, and this does not add to the patient's difficulty in respiration. The next stage, however, does so, and the anaesthetist should be warned at this point so that he may either administer less anaesthetic or stop it entirely if he thinks fit, resuming it after the danger is over. The dislocation of the enlarged lobe now commences, and should be carried out as rapidly as possible. With the head bent somewhat forward in order to relax the muscles, the finger is passed behind the lateral lobe and is swept all over it, freeing first its upper part which is pulled forwards and inwards by the forceps attached to the lower portion of the band containing the superior thyroid vessels. As the finger frees the posterior parts of the lobe, the latter is pulled more and more inwards until, in a very short time, the enlarged gland slips out of the wound and the further procedures are carried out in the open. As soon as the gland has been dislocated, all lateral pressure is taken off the trachea and the remainder of the operation can be carried out without any risk from anaesthetic accidents (see Fig. 27). When the gland has been extruded through the wound, the next step is to proceed with the separation of the fascia from its posterior surface. This is steadUy stripped down until the lower end of the tumour is reached, near which the inferior thyroid arteries are met with. These