9 CYSTS apart from the risk, the cyst will fill up again almost immediately. The first step in all cases ought to be to open the abdomen over the most prominent part of the swelling and expose the cyst wall. As the relation of the cyst to the stomach and the colon varies in different cases, these structures must be identified before proceeding further. In the ordinary form, in which the tumour makes its way forwards between these two structures, a small opening is carefully made in the gastro-colic omentum and the stomach and colon are separated until the thin bluish cyst wall is exposed, any vessels wounded in the process being tied. The abdominal cavity must then be packed off with gauze, and a fine trochar and canula is introduced into the cyst and the bulk of the fluid drawn off so as to avoid flooding the abdominal cavity. The cyst is now opened by a small incision, the edges of which are caught in forceps and pulled well up into the wound ; when the fluid has escaped, these edges may be sutured to the abdominal incision after the gauze packing has been removed. A drainage tube is introduced into the opening in the cyst wall and fixed by means of a purse-string suture as is done in cholecystostomy (see p. 47) and an antiseptic dressing is applied. The skin may become irritated by the secretion from a true pancreatic cyst, and this is best avoided by connecting the drainage tube with tubing which passes through the dressing into a vessel containing an antiseptic ; in this way contact of the secretion with the skin may be preventedѥ for a time, at any rate. When the suture cuts its way out, the largest size drainage tube that can be got into the opening in the cyst should be used and the skin around should be smeared with boric ointment. When the cyst wall cannot be brought up to the skin, a drainage tube is tied in as in cholecystostomy (see p. 47) and packed round with gauze so as to prevent the escape of fluid into the abdominal cavity ; the pack- ing is removed in three or four days. In some cases the finger may be passed downwards to the left through the incision; and a counter-opening made beneath the costal margin ; through this a drainage tube is introduced into the cyst, and the opening in the anterior wall of the cyst is sewn up. A little gauze packing should be left in the anterior wound for a few days in case leakage should occur. Healing usually takes from one to four months ; the mortality is small. The patient generahy recovers his health quickly after the operation ; the stomach troubles disappear and improvement in nutrition takes place, even while thin pancreatic juice is still running out of the drainage opening. In a few cases extirpation of the cyst may be attempted, but this is not possible in retention cysts. Apart from the difficulty of getting proper access to the cyst, serious bleeding is apt to occur, and damage may be done to important structures, so that it is better not to attempt it unless the cyst is almost pedunculated ; adhesions between the cyst and neighbouring structures contra-indicate the operation.