HYDROCELE 315 followed by some swelling, unaccompanied by pain or signs of inflamma- tion. A certain amount of fluid is effused, but this soon becomes absorbed and the swelling disappears. If possible, the patient should be kept in bed until the swelling has almost gone, but recovery will proceed even if he goes about with the testicles supported by a suspensory bandage. We are strongly of opinion that excision or eversion is the best treatment for any patient who desires a radical cure and can give up about a fortnight to the treatment, especially if he is ad- vanced in years or feeble in health. They are simple opera- tions which, if carried out asepti- cally, are not dangerous, and absolutely prevent recurrence. Moreover, they will succeed where injection would certainly fail—for example, when the sac is multi- locular or contains loose bodies. Excision of the wall of the sac, —The strictest asepsis is necessary ; the scrotum and pubes are shaved, and special care must be taken to see that the parts are thoroughly disinfected. The tumour is grasped slightly behind its centre, the skin is made tense over it, and a vertical incision is carried from the upper to the lower limits of the swelling and steadily deepened until the thin tunica vaginalis is evident. The cord and its coverings are now separated from the tunica vaginahs with a blunt dissector or the finger, care being taken not to puncture the hydrocele until the whole of the tumour can be turned out of the wound with the testicle and epididymis forming the base of the swelling. When the hydrocele has thus been isolated, the tunica vaginalis is opened with scissors, the fluid allowed to escape, and the parietal portion of the tunica vaginalis clipped away as close to the testis and epididymis as possible. The portion of the tunica vaginalis covering the testis cannot be removed, but, in order to avoid any possibility Fig. 74.—The Incision through the wall OF A Hydrocele in the operation for Eversion of the Sac.