NEW GROWTHS 307 a fibrous stroma, the testis proper and the epididymis being stretched out and flattened over one side of it. The exact pathology of these tumours is a matter of controversy. Some pathologists classify them as endotheliomata; others include them in a special class of blastomata, assuming that they are derived from undifferentiated embryonic cells. Dermoid cysts are extremely rare in the testis ; they correspond to the dermoids of the ovary and, like them, are probably teratomata. TREATMENT.—There is only one treatment for all these tumours of the testis—namely, castration. As a rule, the earlier the operation is performed the better will be the patient's chance, but unfortunately the diagnosis is often extremely difficult in the early stages when alone there is reasonable prospect of cure by radical measures. Malignant tumours of the testis occur at periods of life when syphilitic affections are also most common, and when the enlargement is still slight it is very difficult to exclude syphilis with certainty. Under these circumstances the presence or absence of the Wassermann reaction should be ascertained, and if the result is positive it is legitimate to try the effect of salvarsan or of large doses of iodide of potassium, combined with mercury and mercurial inunctions, for a week or ten days; if no improvement follows, further time should not be lost. The only way of setting the matter at rest is to cut into the testicle, and have a rapid section made ; to the naked eye the soft, malignant tumour substance contrasts sharply with the dense, fibrous, syphi- litic induration or the caseating gummata. The danger of infection of the surrounding parts, when cutting into malignant tumours, must always be borne in mind, and therefore the exploratory incision should not be made until the surgeon is prepared to complete the operation by castration, if necessary. If the tumour turns out to be malignant, the incision in the skin should be stitched up tightly so as to prevent the escape of any of the cells, and, after fresh disinfection of the skin, the area in which the incision has been made nmst be completely excised witli fresh instruments. Castration.—Removal of the testis may be performed eitlier from below upw ards—when it commences with enucleation of the testis—or from above downwards, when the cord is freed first. In most cases it is best to commence from above downwards, and in the case of malignant tumours—especially when there is an ulcer of the scrotum or when an exploratory incision has been made into it—the whole of the scrotum can be covered up with aseptic cloths while the cord is dealt with first. The same may be said of castration for tuberculous disease with or without ulceration ; by dealing with the cord first, infection of the upper part of the wound by sepsis, malignant disease, or tuberculosis is avoided. An incision about three inches long is made so as to expose the inguinal canal and the external ring on the affected side, the cord is identified as