402 AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE CHRONIC PROSTATITIS. This condition usually follows an acute attack or is a sequel of gonorrhoea, the gonococcus finding its way into the glandular folHcles. It may also be due to the use of unduly strong urethral injections or to excessive coitus. There is considerable enlargement of the prostrate from interstitial inflammatory exudation, and this may lead to permanent enlargement of the organ if it lasts for any time. The symptoms are a sense of weight and discomfort in the perineum, with frequent and sometimes painful micturition, whilst the urine contains filamentous threads formed by the secretion from the prostate. There may be a gleety discharge—especially noticeable in the morning—and occasional spasm of the perineal muscles, followed by the escape of a slightly opalescent fluid. Per rectum, the prostate is enlarged and tender on firm pressure, and there is usually some pain on defcccation. An examination of the urine and of the secretion expressed by massage of the prostate should always be made in order to determine the nature of the micro-organism present. The affection is very rebellious to treatment, and frequently produces much mental depression. TREATMENT.—In the early stages, entire abstinence from alcohol and sexual e.xcitement must be enforced. The patient need not be confined to bed, but bicycling or riding—or indeed anything which entails perineal pressure—should be forbidden, and the patient should lie down as much as possible. A light non-stimulating diet should be prescribed ; the bowels must be kept freely open by saline aperients, and, if there is frequency of micturition, a mixture containing an alkali in combination with tincture of hyoscyamus and infusion of buchu, wiU be useful. Sedatives are rarely called for. In the more chronic cases, if they are not gonorrhoea! in origin, sexual intercourse need not be forbidden. In the local treatment, hot sitz baths are valuable. In obstinate cases, counter-irritation by the application of iodine or blisters to the perineum is useful. In all cases, any exciting cause must be sought for, and if possible removed. If the condition follows gonorrhoea, topical applications—such as solutions of nitrate of silver (five grains to the ounce)—to the prostatic urethra should be made through a urethroscope, and repeated at intervals of three to seven days, the strength of the solution being gradually increased. If too strong applications are used in the early stage, an acute inflammation may be set up. The urethra should also be irrigated with large quantities of permanganate of potash. This subject is dealt with more fully in connection with the treatment of gonorrhoea and gleet (see Chap. XXXV.). Massage of the prostate from the rectum is very useful ; its object is to empty the follicles. The patient should be placed in the knee-elbow position, the forefinger introduced into the rectum, and gentle pressure