375 ORGANIC STRICTURE is now largely employed for the disinfection of catheters, and a convenient plan is to expose the catheter to the action of tri-oxy-methylene. Formalin is a 40 per cent, solution of formic aldehyde in water, and is used in strengths of 2 to 10 per cent, in water. When tri-oxy-methylene is used, the drug is dusted over the bottom of an air-tight box or glass jar, and the catheters are laid upon shelves or trays of gauze or perforated metal ; formic aldehyde is given off slowly wlien the drug is exposed to the air, and has a powerful germicidal action. The lid of the receptacle must be air-tight. The precautions necessary to avoid infection do not stop at the cleansing of the catheter, as a perfectly aseptic instrument may never- theless introduce organisms into the bladder from the lubricant employed or from the urethra or skin of the penis, or the hands of the operator. The usual lubricant has for its base either some oily substance or glycerine. Of these, glycerine may be used either as pure glycerine or boro-glyceride, both of which are aseptic. The objection to glycerine is that it is an imperfect lubricant. Sterilised oil may be poured from a bottle over the catheter, so that there is no necessity for touching the latter with the finger ; under no circumstances should the instrument be introduced either into an oil-bottle or an ointment-jar. Capsules, containing sufficient sterilised oil for one instrument, can now be obtained and are very convenient, as they ensure that the lubricant is only used once. The surgeon's or the patient's hands must be disinfected before passing the catheter, and the glans and the orifice of the urethra must also be cleansed. The patient should always be strictly enjoined to wash the hands and disinfect them with carbolic solution, and the glans penis should also be washed, and the meatus mopped out with a twist of cotton-wool dipped in i in 2000 sublimate solution. The strictest precautions with regard to the fingers must be enforced in the case of patients who pass soft rubber catheters for themselves. In passing these instruments they have to be seized first close to the eye, and the fingers must then be shifted farther and farther along the instrument as it passes down the urethra, and therefore it may be infected by dirty fingers throughout its length. A patient who has to pass catheters for himself should therefore be provided with an outfit, consisting of a Jaques' catheter in a test-tube, a spirit-lamp, a bottle of carbolic acid for the fingers, and another of sterilised oil (or with sterilised oil in capsules) for the instrument. These can be packed in a case, which the patient should always carry with him. All instruments should be warmed and oiled, and in tight strictures it is a good plan to inject some sterilised oil into the urethra, so that there may be sufficient lubricant in the neighbourhood of the stricture ; if the instru- ment is lubricated in the ordinary way, the urethral mucous membrane may have rubbed off the lubricant by the time the stricture is reached.