AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE 424 AFFECTIONS OF THE VESICUL^ SEMINALES. The only conditions requiring notice are inflammation and tuber- culous disease of these organs. VESICULITIS OR INFLAMMATION OF THE VESICULiE SEMINALES. This may be acute or chronic, and usually follows gonorrhoea. The acute form rarely goes on to suppuration, and usually accompanies prostatitis or other gonorrhoeal complications. It gives rise to irritability of the bladder and pain in the region of the prostate and perineum ; the finger in the rectum may detect the enlarged and tender vesiculae. Chronic vesiculitis is more serious on account of the extreme mental depression which it almost invariably excites in patients suffering from it. This condition is frequently present in connection with prostatorrhoea, the vesiculae, which are hard, swollen and tender, containing a consider- able quantity of turbid material which escapes into the urethra. TREATMENT.—^The treatment of the acute affection is general^ simple, as the mischief usually subsides when the acute condition which it accompanies passes off. The patient should rest in bed, plenty of fluid being given to drink ; warm rectal injections are beneficial. For chronic vesiculitis, general hygienic treatment and the ad- ministration of tonics should be adopted, but the main reliance must be placed on local treatment. One of the chief obstacles to recovery is the retention of the discharge in the vesicles, owing to the narrow exit and the difficulty in escape. A method of treatment, which he terms ' stripping the seminal vesicles,' has been introduced by Fuller, of New York. With the view of emptying the vesiculge, the finger is introduced into the rectum—preferably with the bladder full—the bladder is pressed down from above the pubes, and pressure is applied to the vesiculae seminales from behind forwards, so as to expel their contents into the urethra. This is done several times, until the vesiculse are empty. Considerable irritation may follow the early attempts, and Fuller recommends that it should not be repeated oftener than once a week, or once a fortnight ; but he says that, if this method is steadily carried out, the obscure local troubles of which the patient complains, gradually disappear, and with them the severe mental depression. TUBERCULOSIS OF THE SEMINAL VESICLES. This is rare as a primary condition, but is quite common as a secon- dary affection. It is nearly always present in tuberculous epididymitis, and frequently follows tuberculosis of the bladder and prostate. It is very chronic, and rarely results in suppuration. When an abscess does occur, it may burst into the rectum or the bladder, or it may make its way down behind the prostate and burst in the perineum. Tuberculous