AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX 244 part of the lung or indeed to one lung. Unless, therefore, the symptoms point to the presence of one large cavity, simple drainage is of little value, as it will generally be found that, although the patient improves for a time and the foetid expectoration is much relieved, fresh collections form subsequently and the symptoms recur. Various other suggestions have been made for dealing with these cases. Extensive costal resection combined with free drainage of such cavities as are accessible, has been tried, but in most cases without success ; the part of the lung involved, and even the whole lobe have also been removed, but in the cases in which this has been done the results have not been promising. Sauerbruch has lately suggested ligature of the branches of the puimonary artery going to the affected lobe so as to lead to collapse of the lung. The successes in these cases have been few, chiefly owing to the fact that the process is often diffused throughout the lung and not infrequently both lungs are affected (see ' The Surgery of the Lung,' by Garre and Quincke). CAVITIES DUE TO FOREIGN BODIES LODGED IN THE SMALLER BRONCHI. As a rule, the foreign body becomes impacted near the bifurcation of the trachea, and may be reached by a low tracheotomy wound with or without the aid of Briining's bronchoscope (see p. 143). A foreign body impacted in the lung may give rise to pneumonia, dilatation of the bronchi behind it, breaking down of the lung, and the formation of an abscess in the lung tissue, or a localised empyema. Hence it is important if possible to remove the foreign body as soon as it is evident that it is going to cause trouble. When the nature of the foreign body is such that it casts a shadow with the X-rays, a radiogram will greatly facilitate its localisation. Should it turn out that the body is embedded in the lung substance, the surgeon may be called upon to explore that organ, which he will do in the manner already described for an abscess of the lung. Should he have to open an empyema, due to the presence of a foreign body in the lung, he will probably find on introducing the finger that, instead of feehng the smooth external surface of the lung covered by the thickened pleura, his finger passes into a ragged cavity, which is obviously broken- down lung tissue ; careful probing may reveal a sinus leading to a bronchus, and may even detect the foreign body. If the latter can be locaUsed, the opening in the chest wall must be enlarged, and the body extracted by suitable forceps. If it is not detected and extracted in this way, it may possibly escape along the track left for drainage subse- quently; and this should therefore always be of the largest possible dimensions.