523 NEPHROPTOSIS OR MOVABLE KIDNEY risk of the stitches pulhng out or the capsule tearing through. The kidney is now returned into the loin and pushed into place by an assistant, when it will be seen at what spot the catgut stitches must be carried through the lumbar wall in order to anchor the kidney in its proper situation. It is most important to put the kidney back in place before passing the sutures through the lumbar wall, otherwise there is a risk of fixing it too low down. The sutures on the outer pair of flaps, corresponding to the convex border of the kidney, are passed first. When they are in position, their ends should be clamped in forceps, but not tied ; it is then easy to see where the inner pair of sutures should go. As in the operation above described, the lumbar wall is repaired before A B Fig. 140.—Nephrope.xy with Decapsulation. The various stages arc shown ; first the crucial incision through the capsule on the posterior surface of the kidney, then the four flaps raised, and finally the four stages, a, b, c, and d, of securing the apices of the triangular flaps with catgut sutures which are afterwards passed through the lumbar wall. The suture is first passed through the flap as shown in a, and tied as in b, then it is brought round again as in c, and finally tied as in d. The suture thus cannot slip or pull out. the stitches in the kidney are tied, and, while this is being done, the assistant keeps the organ in its place in the loin by pressure through the anterior abdominal wall in the usual way. We have never found any necessity to use more than the four sutures here described, although some surgeons employ a large number. A drainage tube is not necessary. In this method, the whole posterior surface of the kidney is denuded of its capsule, and presents a broad area for adhesion to the lumbar parietes. The bleeding is never troublesome, and soon stops when the organ is iixed in position. The chief point of importance is to fix the kidney high enough up on the lumbar wall; its lower pole should not be lower than the middle of the lumbar region. In order to do this it will generally be necessary to pass the upper pair of sutures through the last intercostal space. Anterior nephropexy.—Owing to the difiiculty of fixing the kidney