281 ELEPHANTIASIS the affection is part of a general eczema, a stomachic tonic, such as rhubarb or gentian, should be administered in combination with a saline. Gout or diabetes must be appropriately treated. ECZEMA INTERTRIGO. This condition occurs on the scrotum in stout persons and young children as the result of chafing of the opposed surfaces of the scrotum and the thigh. It is treated by using a dusting-powder (see p. 280) and interposing a fold of boric lint between the opposed surfaces ; in adults a suspensory bandage should also be worn. ERYSIPELAS. Scrotal eczema if neglected is apt to be complicated by septic infection, and the case may then become one of erysipelas or cellulitis or both. This condition may also occur in venereal disease or phimosis, in balanitis or in cases in which there is constant dribbling of urine. Grave and extensive cellulitis of the scrotum may result from extravasation of urine or from injection into the scrotum of irritants destined for the interior of a hydrocele sac. The gravest form of the affection occurs in the subjects of Bright's disease or diabetes. The scrotum swells enormously, becomes red, tense, and shiny, and pits deeply on pressure. There is a special tendency for widespread sloughing to occur. The redness passes into a dusky lividity which rapidly goes on to gangrene. TREATMENT.—This is similar to that for the affection elsewhere (see Vol. I. p. 197). Should it be necessary to make incisions into the tissues owing to sloughing or imminent suppuration, they should be very free ; even should they expose the testes, no apprehension need be caused, as, when cicatrisation occurs, it is rapid and complete, and the testicles soon become covered in. ELEPHANTIASIS SCROTI. This disease is rare in this country, and we can say little of it from personal experience. If the reader has occasion to deal with a case of this kind he should refer to the writings of those who have had special experience. Elephantiasis scroti is characterised by marked and per- sistent hypertrophy and oedema of the skin and cellular tissue ; and is due to repeated attacks of congestion associated with obstruction of the scrotal lymphatics. In true elephantiasis this obstruction is due to the filaria sanguinis hominis, but in a few rare cases it appears to be due to inflammatory blocking of the lymphatic vessels ; this may occur, for example, in tuberculous disease.