NEW GROWTHS 309 tumour of the testis, the tunica vaginalis should always be removed as well as the testicle. After the skin and dartos have been divided, traction on the organ by means of the cord will usually enable the entire mass to be detached after a few touches with the knife. After removal of the testis, every bleeding point should be tied. Oozing into the scrotum gives rise to much trouble on account of the laxity of the tissues and the long time it takes for the clot to become absorbed; moreover, the wound is near sources of infection. When the wound is sewn up, special care must be taken to see that the edges do not become inverted, as they often tend to do. The wound should be put on the stretch, with a blunt hook at each end of the incision, and either a running or a button-hole suture will close the cavity. It is well to insert a drainage tube for two or three days. Castration should be employed in most cases of malignant disease of the testicle, even though the operation may not be curative—unless definite secondary tumours are present—as it saves the patient the great trouble and discomfort that the ulceration and sloughing of the growth must inevitably cause. Of the value of removal of the lumbar glands it is impossible to speak definitely as it has only been performed a few times. It is a severe and difficult procedure, and it must be seen whether it yields a percentage of recoveries commensurate with its severity ; so far, apparently, it has not prevented recurrence. Recurrence in the glands in this region does not necessarily take place after castration in early cases even though this elaborate operation has not been performed. It seems reasonable that all cases in which it is suggested that this operation should be performed should be examined carefully by X-rays, in order to ascertain as far as possible whether the lungs are free from metastases or not. It would not be worth while performing an operation of this magnitude when there are deposits in the lungs.