192 AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST tumour diminishing in size, and in parts entirely disappearing, whilst the patient has improved in health and the local disease has remained quiescent. In our experience, however, a time comes—from six months onwards— when the effect of the operation seems to pass off and recrudescence of the disease occurs, and we know of no instance in which the patient can truly be said to have been cured by the operation. The best results that we have seen have been in cases in which the local disease has been eradicated as freely as possible simultaneously with the oophorectomy ; but even here we have seen striking instances of the futility of the procedure. Thyroid extract.—Sir George Beatson, who first introduced oopho- rectomy, advocated the long-continued administration of thyroid extract in increasing doses in combination with the operation. Other observers have claimed improvement from the use of thyroid extract alone. We cannot, however, say that we have ever seen any advantage in using this drug which seems to us to have value only as a placebo, the patient being happier while she is taking it and being under the impression that good may result. In the case of recurrences, X-rays and radium are sometimes of value, especially when the recurrence is superficial. We have seen a few good results in such cases, but when the growth has been at all deeply seated these methods do not seem to be of any material value. In limited deep- seated recurrences the best plan is to cut down on the swelling and apply the radium in immediate contact with it. In inoperable cases also the free application of radium externally seems to be of value in some instances, the growth of the tumour being at any rate retarded and sometimes apparently checked for a time. paget's disease of the nipple. A peculiar ulcerative disease of the nipple was first described by Sir James Paget, and is commonly spoken of as Paget's eczema. This condi- tion affects the nipple and extends to the areola, the affected surface becoming raw, finely granular, and discharging a copious, clear, yellowish viscid fluid. This condition is not a true eczema, but is in reahty a cancerous change in the papillary layers of the skin. In some cases it is associated with cancer of the breast, and so constant is the association between the two conditions that most surgeons advise complete removal of the breast in cases of Paget's disease, even though no tumour can be discovered in it. TREATMENT.—In any case the affected nipple and a considerable area of the structures around should be freely removed, and it seems much safer from clinical experience to remove the breast and the glands as well. This should be done thoroughly, but, unless an actual tumour be felt