INJURIES TO THE VESSELS AND NERVES strychnine. The patient should be propped up in the sitting position, and large jacket-poultices applied to the affected side of the chest. Oxygen inhalations will be required if there is much embarrassment of respiration. Cellulitis of the neck.—Free incisions must be made where necessary, but in planning them and in arranging the dressing, care should be taken to minimise the risk of entrance of septic material into the air-passages. INJURIES TO THE VESSELS AND NERVES. Wounds of the large veins of the neck are of importance, partly on account of the haemorrhage, but mainly of the risk of the entrance of air into the vein. This subject is dealt with in Vol. II. p. 144. Wounds of the large arterial trunks are of course followed by immediate death if the vessel is completely or extensively divided. A false aneurysm, an aneurysmal varix, or a varicose aneurysm may follow when the vessel is punctured and the skin wound closed, or a true aneurysm may result when the wall of the vessel is simply contused. The occurrence of aneurysmal varix and true aneurysm following bruising of the vessel wall has been noticed in a number of cases in which the wounds have been caused by high velocity bullets. Injuries of the nerves of the neck may follow wounds or violent blows. The most important of these nerves is the vagus ; if this is wounded accidentally, the injury is generally accompanied by fatal damage to the vessels. The matter is different however when the vagus is injured in the course of an operation, and it is remarkable that the removal of a large portion of the vagus on one side does not necessarily prove fatal, nor indeed does it seriously inconvenience the patient. Should both pneumogastrics be divided, however, the patient usually dies of pneumonia. The division of one vagus is followed by paralysis of the vocal cord on that side as the result of the paralysis of the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Among other nerves which may be injured is the branch of the spinal accessory which runs from the sterno-mastoid to the trapezius. After piercing the former muscle a little above its centre it runs obliquely downwards and backwards to the under-surface of the trapezius, which it reaches at about the junction of the middle and lower third of the muscle. This nerve is apt to be injured in the removal of glands from the posterior triangle. The patient then suffers from dropping of the shoulder and difficulty in shrugging it, and there is often a good deal of pain and aching about that shoulder and the side of the neck. Hence an attempt should always be made to find and bring the ends into apposition, though this is a delicate and ditficult proceeding on account of the small size of the nerve.