AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX 230 If, however, the pressure symptoms are severe, the chest should be aspirated from time to time. Should this fail to produce amelioration, Godlee suggests the employment of syphoning, and describes the following plan :— The patient is placed on his back with his side projecting sUghtly beyond the edge of the bed, and two needles (see Fig. 56) are introduced into the chest about the eight or ninth interspace—one towards the anterior and the other towards the posterior part of the chest. It should be ascertained that the lung is not adherent at the points selected for the introduction of the needles. An india-rubber tube is attached to each needle ; that in connection with the anterior one is fiUed with boric lotion and passes to the bottom of a large bottle containing warm boric lotion, while an aspirator is connected with the other, or the tube attached to it is simply allowed to fall into a basin which is placed on the floor and which contains enough boric lotion to cover the end of the tube. The fluid is then allowed to drain from the chest, and its place is taken by the boric acid lotion. When the lotion comes through quite clear, the anterior tube is removed, as much as possible of the boric lotion evacuated by an aspirator attached to the posterior tube, and the wound closed. This procedui-e may be repeated if necessary. SEPTIC MEDIASTINITIS. When a penetrating wound of the mediastinum does not lead to immediate death from haemorrhage, it may be followed by septic inflammation and diffuse cehulitis or the formation of an abscess in the mediastinum. Septic mediastinitis may also follow septic inflammation in the neck—such as Ludwig's angina, or tracheotomy, or operations upon the thyroid or cervical glands in which sepsis has occurred ; it is not infrequent in connection with the impaction of foreign bodies in the oesophagus if perforation takes place, and it may occur occasionally as a primary disease in cases of general sepsis. Chronic abscess in the anterior mediastinum is not uncommon in connection with tuberculous disease of the sternum or costal cartilages, and occasionally with a similar affection of the mediastinal glands; chronic abscess in the posterior mediastinum is also common in disease of the dorsal vertebrae. In acute cases there is great pain, severe cough, high fever, dyspnoea, and all the other symptoms of septic inflammation. In chronic cases the symptoms are less severe and are difficult to distinguish from those of tumour of the mediastinum ; there may be dysphagia, dyspnoea, occasional asthmatic attacks, lividity, and irregularity of the cardiac rhythm. If the patient survives—and this is especially the case in chronic abscess—the pus may find its way outwards at the side of the