AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER 570 enucleated from within it ; while this is being done, the renal pedicle is compressed by an assistant, so as to check the bleeding. As much of the kidney as possible is shelled out piecemeal from the capsule, and finally the pedicle is tied up en masse and the kidney capsule cut away, after which it may be possible to isolate and tie the individual vessels. This form of operation should only be done when nothing else is possible, and is inadmissible if the kidney is tuberculous. After the kidney has been removed, a large drainage tube is introduced through the posterior angle of the wound, the rest of which is brought together by interrupted silkworm-gut sutures, taking up the whole thickness of the lumbar wall; buried sutures must not be used, as suppuration is likely to occur. The patient is put back to bed with the arm on the affected side bound to the trunk, and the knees flexed over a pillow and fastened together. There is generally a good deal of shock, with considerable pain and abdominal tenderness, and to meet this, subcutaneous saline infusions may be required ; there is no objection to giving injections of morphine if the other kidney is fairly healthy. The intense thirst so often complained of is best relieved by allowing the patient to suck ice or to take soda-water in small quantities by the mouth, and by continuous saline protoclysis (see Vol. I. p. 115). There will probably be free oozing, and the wound will require dressing frequently in the first forty-eight hours. Treatment o£ renal colic.—The first indication is to alleviate the pain and spasm, and thus to facilitate the passage of the stone along the ureter. Injections of morphine and atropine should be given every three or four hours, if necessary, if there is only enough albumen present in the urine to be accounted for by the pyuria. A hot bath should be administered, and the patient left in it until he feels faint; he should then be put back to bed. The shoulders and thighs should be raised so as to relax the abdominal muscles. If the pain is so severe that these methods do not allay it, inhalation of chloroform may be resorted to, but this is very rarely necessary. As a rule, the stone passes in a few hours, or goes back into the renal pelvis. Should it become impacted, it must be removed (see p. 571). URETERAL CALCULUS. The surgeon may be called upon to deal with a calculus impacted in the ureter under two different sets of circumstances. On the one hand he may find that in the course of an operation for renal stone the ureter is blocked by a second calculus, which of course will require removal either at the time of the operation—if the patient's condition allows it—or at a subsequent period when the effects of the kidney operation have been somewhat recovered from. When, on the other hand, the