203 INJURIES OF THE THORACIC WALL The wounded vessel must be tied above and below the point of injury, and in the first instance an attempt should be made to secure it through the wound; as, however, the intercostal space is narrow, it may be necessary to remove the costal cartilage above and below the seat of injury. The best plan is to plug the wound temporarily and then to carry incisions upwards and downwards so as to expose the costal cartilages above and below the seat of injury. About an inch of the upper costal cartilage is removed after detaching the perichondrium, and after dividing the peri- chondrium and fascia behind the cartilage, the two ends of the vessel may be secured. If the lower end has retracted behind the costal cartilage below the seat of injury, as it not infrequently does, a portion of that cartilage must also be taken away. The wound should then be disinfected and drained. Any complication, such as haemo-thorax, h£emo-pericardium, or pyo-thorax, which may arise later, must be appropriately treated. The obvious treatment of a wound of an intercostal artery is to open up the wound, find the source of the bleeding, and tic the vessel; but this is usually difficult, unless a portion of the rib above the wound is resected or the periosteum separated from the lower border of the rib. Time will be saved by cutting down on the rib above the wound, detacliing the periosteum rapidly and fully, and then removing about an inch and a half of the bone. This exposes the intercostal vessel, and the two ends may be picked up in forceps and tied. If there is any difficulty in doing this, the vessel may be underrun with catgut on a fully curved needle. Excision of a portion of the rib leaves no weakness of the thoracic wall, and there is no reason why the surgeon should be content with such clumsy expedients as passing an aneurysm needle around the rib and tying a ligature over that structure so as to press the vessel against its lower border, or employing a tampon which is very liable to be followed by sepsis and is also not efficient. PENETRATING WOUNDS.—These are much more serious on account of the numerous comphcations that may accompany them ; in addition to wounds of the vessels already mentioned there may be injury to the lung, pleura, pericardium, heart, great vessels, diaphragm, oesophagus, trachea, or thoracic duct. As a sequel to these injuries, hernia of the lung may be met with, or comphcations such as haemo- thorax, pneumo-thorax, pyo-thorax, suppurative mediastinitis, or pericarditis. All these conditions are dealt with separately. Penetrating wounds of the chest maybe due to stabs, gunshot wounds, or extensive contusions. The prognosis depends on the cause of the injury and on the occurrence of bleeding or sepsis. Treatment.—The wound must be disinfected, care being taken to see that no strong antiseptics run into the pleural cavity. In mihtary surgery the possibility of the presence of a foreign body in the wound— such as a piece of the clothing—must be borne in mind, and if present