436 AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER have atrophied and distended bladders. The rapture may be either extra- or intra-peritoneal, or both, and the gravity of the injury is increased if the urine is septic. When the rupture of the bladder is only a complication of a severe injury, such as fracture of the pelvis, the symptoms will be due partly to the fracture and partly to the injury of the bladder itself; when rupture of the bladder is the only lesion, the symptoms are due to that alone. There is great shock and frequent desire to micturate, little or no water being passed. If the patient can pass water, as may be the case when the rent is small and extra-peritoneal, the urine will be blood-stained; when, however, there is an extensive intra-peritoneal rupture, all the urine will escape through it, and none through the urethra. When the urethra is ruptured and the rent extends into the bladder, the symptoms will be mainly those of ruptured urethra (see Chap. XXXIII.), and the laceration of the bladder may be overlooked ; the latter, however, is the most important, as the bladder injury requires immediate treatment. The diagnosis of rupture of the bladder will be confirmed by signs of urinary extravasation into the pre-vesical cellular tissue in cases of extra-peritoneal rupture, or into the peritoneal cavity when the rupture is intra-peritoneal. In extra-peritoneal cases, there will be a tender boggy swelling, dull on percussion, extending up behind the pubes, and accompanied in a short time by all the signs of extravasation of urine (see p. 394). When the rupture is intra-peritoneal, sjonptoms of serious peritoneal irritation will set in along with the signs of a collection of fluid at the most dependent parts of the peritoneal cavity, followed very quickly by those of peritonitis. The diagnosis is finally made by examining the interior of the bladder with an instrument. In doing this there is always a risk of introducing septic material, and therefore it should not be undertaken until the surgeon is prepared to proceed to any operative measures that may be necessary if rupture of the bladder is found. It is best to use a sterile metal instrument—preferably, a short-beaked catheter (No. 10 English), and care must be taken to avoid the introduction of septic material (see p. 374). If the rupture of the bladder is associated with laceration of the urethra, the passage of an instrument may be difficult or impossible, and the treatment of the case should then be conducted on lines similar to those for ruptured urethra (see Chap. XXXIII.). When the catheter has reached the interior of the bladder, the rent may be made out, the point of the catheter passing through it, either into the peritoneal cavity—whence it may draw off blood-stained urine from the recto-vesical pouch—or into the cellular tissue behind the anterior abdominal wall. The freedom with which the point of the instrument can be moved and the distance to which it can be passed wiU also indicate whether the laceration is extra- or intra- peritoneal. In intra-peritoneal rupture, the point can be made to move