285 RETAINED TESTIS When torsion of the testis takes place and gangrene occurs, peritonitis is apt to follow. Any attack of inflammation of the testis in this region is serious, and not only is there great pain and constitutional disturb- ance, but the affection is frequently mistaken for astrangulated hernia. Hydrocele and ha;matocele are not uncommon complications, and it is also said that a retained testis is more liable to become the seat of malignant disease than a normally placed one. TREATMENT.—The foregoing facts indicate that when the testicle lies in the inguinal canal it is always advisable to remove the organ from its abnormal position. Palliative treatment is of little avail. The old plan of applying a truss with a horseshoe-shaped pad so as to occlude the inguinal canal after the testis had been pulled down beyond the external ring and so prevent it going back, has little to recommend it. The hernia practically never becomes cured, neither does the testis descend into its normal position in the scrotum. Indeed, the presence of a hernia is rather an advantage than otherwise—as far as the descent of the testis is concerned. The only rational treatment is by operation, and this may have one of three aims : (i) to bring the testis into the scrotum ; (2) to replace it in tlie abdominal cavity ; or (3) to remove it altogether. The points in- fluencing the decision as to which of these methods should be employed are mainly the condition of the testis, its situation, and the length of the structures forming the coid. When the patient is seen soon after birth, it is perhaps best to delay the operation until the child is about four years old—that is to say, until he is intelligent enough to avoid wetting the dressings ; there is no urgency about these cases. Should a congenital hernia be present and sliould the child be under constant medical super- vision, it is best not to employ a truss, as the hernia can always be cured at the time the operation on the testis is undertaken, and the protrusion of the hernia not only helps to stretch the cord, but also pushes down the testicle in front of it, and may lead to the development of a cavity in the scrotum into which the testis is afterwards placed ; it thus materially helps the success of the subsequent operation. If the child is under observation, any sign of strangulation will be noticed at once, and the necessary measures can be taken. Orchidopexy, or bringing the testis into the scrotum.—One difficulty in connection with bringing the testicle into the scrotum is the imperfect development of the latter. This is most marked when both testicles are imperfectly descended, for when the testes are brought down to the bottom of the scrotum, the elasticity of the dartos tends to squeeze them out again. Another difificulty is the shortness of the tissues forming the cord ; in this connection it is important to remember that when the testis has descended to the neighbourhood of the external ring, the vas deferens itself is always long enough. The tissues that are unduly short are the vessels and the hbrous structures. If these were all divided, the organ