AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER 530 severe, and the blood, besides escaping by the ureter, finds its way into the tissues around the kidney, and, along with the urine which is simultaneously extravasated, forms a swelling in the loin, spreading upwards under the ribs and downwards towards the ihac fossa. When there is extensive damage to the kidney the patient's condition is very serious. When the periioneum over the ruptured kidney is torn and there is extravasation of blood and urine into the peritoneal cavity, the shock is profound, and in addition to the haematuria, there is rapidly increasing pain and tenderness over the abdomen, spreading dullness, and, possibly, a swelling on the affected side. The pulse is quick, thready, and easily compressible; the vomiting is intractable, and tympanites rapidly sets in. The chief dangers in connection with an injury to the kidney are continuous and excessive bleeding, inflammation and suppuration m the kidney itself or in the peri-nephric tissues, which may go on to septicaemia or pyeemia, thrombosis of the renal vein followed by emboli elsewhere, and peritonitis ; when the renal artery or one of its large branches is torn, gangrene of the kidney may ensue. Later results may be hydronephrosis, pyoneplurosis, or traumatic aneurism of the renal artery. Death is usually due to collapse, haemorrhage, peritonitis, pyaemia, cystitis, hectic fever, or suppression of urine. TREATMENT.—This may be operative or non-operative. The chief difficulty in regard to treatment is to gauge the extent of the injury to the kidney. If the injury is slight, the patient may recover without operation, but if it is severe, his life will depend on early operation. In the majority of cases non-operative treatment may be employed—for a few hours, at any rate—unless there be signs of serious haemorrhage; in a good many cases it will not be necessary to operate. Non-operative treatment.—The first indication is to combat the shock (see Vol. I. p. 117). It is well to avoid alcohol, as it may increase the haemorrhage and irritate the kidney. The second indication is to provide for complete rest of the injured part. The patient should be placed upon his back in bed, with the knees tied together and flexed over a bolster, which is prevented from slipping by a bandage passing from each end of it to the head of the bed. Should the dorsal position be intolerable, the patient may lie on the sound side. If the floating ribs have been fractured, the affected side should be fixed either by strapping or a firm binder. The strips of strapping should be about two and a half inches wide, and long enough to extend from just beyond the spinal column behind to beyond the middle fine in front. They should be put on from below upwards, beginning just below the crest of the ihiun and extending up well over the lower ribs, each piece overlapping its predecessor by at least two-thirds of its width. If the pain is severe, small doses of morphine may be given ; this allays irritation