219 INFLAMMATION OF THE PLEURA there should be persistent cough or haemoptysis. It is also well to desist ■—for a time, at any rate—if the fluid becomes blood-stained. When it is unnecessary to withdraw the whole of the fluid, the aspiration need only be carried to the point at which the flow becomes scanty and intermittent and the pressure sjTnptoms are relieved. After enough fluid has been withdrawn, the aspirator is detached from the canula, the thumb is placed over the end of the latter, the tissues are pinched up around its shaft, and the canula is withdrawn. The small puncture is sealed by collodion dressing. SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION OR EMPYEMA. This is a common affection ; its precise characters depend largely upon the nature of the bacteria causing the suppuration. A variety of these organisms have been found in suppurative pleural effusions. In children, the most common is the pneumococcus, in adults, the strepto- coccus, but combinations of the two are also met with. Occasionally, the infection is staphylococcic; sometimes putrefactive organisms are present, especially when the condition is associated with gangrene of the lung. The tubercle bacillus is found in a considerable number of instances. The latter cases are chronic, and are considered separately. The sytnptoiiis and diagnosis of purulent pleural eft'usions lie essentially within the province of the physician. The sjTnptoms at the onset may be severe and characterised by rigors, sweats, emaciation, increasing ana;mia, hectic temperature, and the typical physical signs of fluid in the chest. The symptoms will continue unless the pus is evacuated, and may be accompanied by signs of severe pressure. Ihe inflammation of the pleura will also persist and give rise to increasing thickening, so that before long the lung becomes so bound down to the thoracic wall, especi- ally in the vertebral groove, that even after removal of the fluid there is no likehhood of its expansion. From this point of view alone it is essential that the pus should be evacuated as soon as possible, because if the lung fails to expand, the only way in which healing of the cavity can take place is by falHng-in of the chest wall, and this is a very slow and imperfect process. Acute purulent effusions are rarely absorbed spontaneously, although it is said that this occasionally occurs in those due to the pneumococcus. If the condition is allowed to persist unrelieved and the patient lives, the pus finds its way through the thoracic wall; it may point anywhere, but the most common place is in the fifth interspace in front, just external to the margin of the pectoralis major. Occasionally, it finds its way into the bronchi; and is discharged through the air-passages. The pus is not usually diffused throughout the whole pleural cavity. This may occur, however, when septic material has been introduced into a healthy pleura and in cases in which rapid inflammation and