FRACTURE OF THE RIBS 197 In old people, especially in bronchitic subjects, it is questionable whether any restrictive apparatus should be employed at all. At most, two or three pieces of strapping may be applied, as above directed, and the patient should be propped up into the semi-recumbent position as early as possible. The use of strapping should be avoided altogether when there is any suspicion of the ribs being pressed inwards, as it will only increase the damage done by their fractured ends. When many ribs are fractured, strapping should be dispensed with ; the patient should be kept in bed in the semi-recumbent or the most comfortable posture, and, as a rule, the pain involved in breathing will cause the affected side of the chest to be fixed involuntarily and sufficiently to prevent undue movement. When the patient is able to get up, strapping the whole of the lower half of the affected side in the classical manner from below upwards, will give considerable relief provided no bronchitis is present, and will enable the patient to get about. The administration of opium or morphine is very useful in cases of fractured ribs ; it eases the pain and diminishes cough, and hence it should be given from the first if there is no contra-indication, such as the presence of renal chsease. After-treatment.—When there is a simple fracture of one or two ribs, without displacement, the patient need not be con- fined to bed for more than two or three days; but vigorous exercise must be pro- hibited for two or three weeks, and the ,1 rr , 1 • T 1 1 T 1 ■ T Fig. ss.—Strapping applied for arm on the affected side should be carried " fractured ribs. in a sling. It is most important that old persons should be allowed to sit up as soon as possible, as this is the best preventive of lung complications. When the fracture is compound it must be treated on the ordinary lines for compound fracture (see Vol. II.). The injury is rare ; but when it occurs, the pleura is generally torn, and some of the complications referred to above are present and will require to be treated on appropriate lines. During the disinfection of the wound, care must be taken not to allow strong antiseptics to pass into the pleural cavity, and also not to open up the rent in the pleura unnecessarily. Should the inj ury have occurred some time before the surgeon sees the patient, and should septic infection of the pleura have already taken place, it is well to excise the ends of the fractured ribs and establish proper drainage of the pleural