AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER 444 of cocci which decompose urea and give rise to ammoniacal urine ; the ordinary pyogenic organisms may also be present, and specific bacteria, such as the gonococcus or the typhoid bacillus. ACUTE CYSTITIS. The inflammation may be superficial and affect the mucous membrane alone, or it may involve the submucous coat. In the acute catarrhal form, the mucous membrane is injected, and there are numerous ecchy- mosed spots on it. Superficial ulceration may also occur if the disease lasts for any length of time. When the inflanunation has extended beyond the mucous membrane, the submucous and muscular coats become thickened and lose their elasticity, and in rare cases abscesses may form and burst into the bladder. In these cases, the bladder shrinks and is no longer easily dilatable, and may even become adherent to other structures. A more severe and less common form is that known as ' membranous ' or ' diphtheritic cystitis ' in which there is violent inflammation of the bladder wall followed by necrosis of the mucous membrane with extensive membranous deposits on the surface which peel off and are discharged as more or less complete casts of the bladder. In acute cystitis the first symptoms are increeised frequency and urgency of micturition. The pain is sometimes very great and is most marked at the end of micturition as the bladder contracts to expel the last few drops of urine. There may be much vesical tenesmus, and the patient suffers from a condition closely resembling incontinence. There is generally a sensation of weight in the perinermi and tenderness in the hypogastric region. The urine is turbid from the presence of pus and may be ammoniacal; if it is alkaline, the pus becomes thick, ropy, and tenacious. Blood may be present in the urine, but usually in such small quantities as only to be demonstrable by the microscope. There is loss of appetite, sleeplessness, and a moderate degree of fever. In sub-acute cases the symptoms are less marked. The typical forms are those due to gonorrhoea, stone, or stricture of the urethra. Here the frequency of micturition is less, there is pain in the glans penis during and at the end of micturition, some tenderness or imeasiness above the pubes or in the perineum, and pus and much mucus in the urine. In membranous or diphtheritic cystitis, the symptoms may be extremely severe. The pain is generally widespread and radiates into the loins, thighs, and abdomen, whilst the urine contains large quantities of muco- pus and is strongly ammoniacal and sometimes very foul; in bad cases much blood is present. When gangrene of the bladder wall occurs, the urine is putrid or fsecal in odour, brown in colour, and contains shreds of necrosed mucous membrane. The temperature in these cases may range from 102° to 104° F., and there is anorexia, sleeplessness, and low