ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY FOR MYOMATA 6oi that the tear involves it. In these cases, the rent must be closed by sutures. More rarely, it has been necessary to perform partial hysterec- tomy to control the bleeding. In other cases there may be a ruptured extra-uterine foetation, and the bleeding may be occurring slowly or be insufficient in amount to produce immediately urgent symptoms. Under these circumstances, operation may not be undertaken until some time has elapsed. On opening the abdomen, clot in varying stages of organisation will be found ; some of it will be closely adherent to the peritoneum, and the parts may be matted together. As much of the blood as possible should be removed, the adhesions carefully separated, and the affected tube excised. The abdomen may be completely closed, but in some cases it may be necessary to insert a small drainage tube through the lower end of the wound. When the pregnancy has advanced up to the third or fourth month, operation may be required for secondary intra-peritoneal rupture with haemorrhage. In these cases, the operation can usually be performed without difficulty and the placenta and foetus removed. In the later months, the separation of the placenta may be accompanied by severe haemorrhage—especially if the fretus is living. The bleeding points must be seized and tied as the placenta is separated, but gauze packing may be required afterwards to control the hfemorrhage. In some cases it ma}^ be advisable to stitch the sac wall to the parietes and drain. The placenta should not be left behind and allowed to separate by sloughing, as the dangers of septic complications are very great, and secondary hccmorrhage may occur. When the foetus is dead, the separation of the placenta is not accompanied by much haemorrhage. ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY FOR MYOMATA. In the course of an abdominal operation, the surgeon may find that large myomata of the uterus are present which ought to be removed. Abdominal hysterectomy may be either (i) sub-total or supra-vaginal, or (2) total or pan-hysterectomy. In the former, the body of the uterus and part of the cervix are removed ; in the latter, the body and the whole of the cervix are taken away. If the ovaries and tubes are diseased, they should also be removed, but when they are healthy, one at least of the ovaries should be left behind on account of the importance of the internal secretion. Unless the patient is thin, and the whole tumour can be easily brought out of the wound on to the surface of the abdomen, the Trendelenburg position should be employed. Sub-total hysterectomy.—The abdomen is opened below the umbilicus, but it may be necessary to prolong the incision upwards for some distance above the umbilicus, when the tumour is large. The intestines are displaced so as to expose the tumour, which is then examined