AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX 226 passed into the cavity goes down to a lower spot where pus can collect, a counter-opening should be made in that situation. The original opening should be dilated, and a drainage tube perforated laterally in a number of places should be passed from one opening to the other. This may be stitched to the skin at both openings, but after about five days, the sutures should be cut and the tube withdrawn, cleaned, and inserted. When the tube is withdrawn for cleaning, it is well to attach a long piece of silk to one end of it and then to withdraw it by the other end ; the silk thread is drawn through the sinus; and serves to pull the tube back in position after it has been cleansed. The tube may be shortened in about a week or ten days, the upper end being cut so that it no longer projects through the upper aperture. If this treatment is unsuccessful, a vaccine prepared from the organism present may be tried, but is seldom of much value. A better plan is to inject the sinus from time to time with bismuth made into a thick paste with paraffin and vaseline in such proportions that it is soUd at the body temperature (see Vol. II. p. ^58). Occasionally, one injection may cause the sinus to heal; more often several injections at intervals of about a week will be required. The position, size; and ramifications of the sinus may be determined, and the progress of the cases ascertained from time to time, by means of radiograms. This method is not, however^ always successful. The cases in which there is imperfect expansion of the lung are much more troublesome. Here a cavity is left and, after the diaphragm and other soft structures have yielded as far as possible, the only possible mode of closure of the cavity is by the falling-in of the thoracic wall. This is an extremely slow and generally an imperfect process, and in the mean- time the patient gradually goes downhill from the continued sepsis. If, therefore, closure has not occurred in six months in spite of perfect drainage and good hygienic conditions, some operative interference must be undertaken. There are two operations at the disposal of the surgeon: namely, thoracoplasty, or Estlander's operation, in which the portions of the ribs forming the outer wall of the cavity are removed, and decortication, in which the thickened pleura—or at any rate, the dense fibrous outer layer of it—is peeled off the lung so as to allow the latter to expand. The operation in common use at present is that of thoracoplasty; this is often severe and difficult and does not always succeed, but it is absolutely necessary when a prolonged trial of other methods has failed; it is also required when the case is due to tuberculosis. Thoracoplasty.—^This operation should be done under intra-tracheal anaesthesia or differential pressure (see p. 232), and with the aid of a radio- gram taken after injection of bismuth cream (see Vol. II. p. 458). The first step is to open up the sinus, insert the finger, and ascertain exactly the limits of the cavity left. These are marked out on the chest wall, and