534 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER After the rent has been stitched up, two or three sutures should be passed between the capsule of the kidney and the lumbar muscles so as to anchor the kidney in place, and drainage tubes are inserted into the peri-renal space so as to carry off urine or blood ; these may be removed in three or four days if there is no further accumulation and if the wound remains aseptic. The abdominal wall should be repaired by silkworm- gut sutures passing through the skin and the whole thickness of the loin muscles ; buried stitches should not be employed, as suppuration may occur in the wound, and in that case the stitches will be extruded. These stitches are removed after ten to fourteen days. When a portion of the kidney is almost detached, the question will arise whether the surgeon should merely remove this portion or should take away the whole kidney. The decision depends upon the possibility of arresting the haemorrhage ; if this is only moderate in amount after the lacerated portion has been removed, it may be arrested by stitching the kidney to the abdominal wall and applying a firm tampon of gauze. When the kidney is much torn and it is impossible to arrest the hcemorrhage by ligatures or sutures, the only plan short of nephrectomy is to plug the lacerations with strips of gauze. The organ must first be sutured to the loin, and then the torn portion is tightly plugged with gauze. The results are not, however, very satisfactory, because it is difficult to exert sufficient pressure on the kidney to arrest the hsemorrhage. When gauze-plugging is employed, no drainage tube is necessary because the gauze itself acts as a drain, so long as the discharge is not purulent. The greater part of the wound should be left open, but silkworm-gut sutures may be carried through the whole thickness of the loin, and the loops tied and left ready to be tightened up as the gauze is removed. Should no suppuration occur, it will be several days before the deepest portion of the gauze will come away easily. The patient must lie on his back, or with a pillow beneath the injured side, while the arm on that side is fixed to the trunk by a binder, and the legs are flexed over a pillow and the knees tied together. When the peritoneum is lacerated and there is extravasation of blood and urine into the peritoneal cavity, immediate operation is imperative. The operation should be trans-peritoneal, the incision being made just inside the linea semilunaris on the affected side (see p. 590). When the abdomen has been opened, the peritoneum outside the colon is divided, the latter drawn towards the middle line, and the kidney exposed. In the majority of cases, the best plan is to perform nephrectomy at once, unless there be reason to suspect serious disease of the other kidney. In a few cases the rent in the kidney may be small and can be closed by mattress sutures {vide supra) ; in that case a counter-opening for drainage is made in the loin, and the rent in the peritoneum is sewn up. As a rule, however, nephrectomy is advisable, not only on account of the severe lesions in the kidney, but in order to prevent further