AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 358 GONOCOCCAL URETHRITIS IN THE FEMALE. The usual affection in the female is inflammation of the cervix, the urethra being comparatively rarely affected. Zeissl states that in only about 5 per cent, of the cases is there any urethritis It is more difficult to eradicate the disease in the female than in the male as it may remain latent in the cervix uteri for a long time. The inflammation has a tendency to spread to the body of the uterus and to the Fallopian tubes, giving rise to salpingitis; it may also extend to the peritoneum, and cause a pelvic peritonitis. The glands of Bartholin are frequently affected, and it is very difficult to get rid of the affection from this situation. TREATMBISTT.—This is similar to that for the male, except that internal remedies have no value unless the urethra is affected. The value of copaiba and sandal-wood oil in the male is that they are excreted in the urine and apparently exert a local antiseptic action when the patient passes water, and consequently in the female these drugs are practically useless. In the acute stage the treatment takes the form of local applications, such as hip-baths and hot vaginal douches, whilst in the more chronic stages the various astringent injections already referred to (see p. 356), particularly nitrate of silver, may be used as vaginal douches. The local application of strong solutions of nitrate of silver to the cervix uteri may be called for. GLEET. While in favourable cases the discharge becomes steadily less pumlent until it ceases in two or three weeks after the subsidence of the acute stage, it sometimes persists for a long time, and the condition is then called ' gleet.' The persistence of a gleety discharge is not uncommonly due to the localisation of the gonorrhoeal mischief in the deeper layers of the mucous membrane or submucous tissue in some very limited area ; in most cases this area is situated either in the penile urethra from three and a half to four inches from the meatus—that is to say, at the junction of the penile and scrotal portion of the urethra—or about the junction of the prostatic with the membranous portion. The local lesions met with at this stage are very various. The commonest is the so-called ' granular patch ' which is seen through the urethroscope as a livid purplish area, somewhat raised from the surrounding mucous membrane, bleeding readily on being touched and closely resembling granulation tissue. Next in frequency to the granular patch, a condition of simple hyperaemia of a particular area of the urethral mucous membrane is met with. This is most common in the neighbourhood of the bulb ; the vessels are dilated and unduly numerous, and the mucous membrane is bright red instead of being of its normal pink colour. Another, but less common, lesion is ulceration of the