317 HYDROCELE and the question of treatment will arise quite early. It is obviously unadvisable to inject irritants lest they should find their way into the peritoneal cavity ; on the other hand, it is not an uncommon experience to find that, after evacuating the fiuid with a fine trochar and applying evaporating lotions, followed in a few days by a pad and bandage, the fluid does not re-accumulate, the walls of the sac become adherent, and the communication with the peritoneal cavity becomes obliterated. If necessary, the puncture may be repeated more than once, and is best done with the exploring-needle of an ordinary hypodermic syringe. If this treatment is ineffectual, the surgeon should wait until the child is at least three months old, and then excise the sac. Excision is advis- able for several reasons. In the first place, injection is out of the question because of the communication with the abdomen, and, in the second, the aperture of communication may enlarge and a congenital hernia may result, and this is greatly facilitated by the distension of the inguinal canal from the presence of the hydrocele. Excision.—The incision is similar to that for the radical cure of hernia (see Vol. IV. p. 489) ; the cord is raised, the testicle drawn from the scrotum, and the hydrocele sac identified, clipped off on a level with the epididymis below, and stripped up from the other structures of the cord—like a hernial sac—as far as the internal abdominal ring. The rest of the operation is exactly similar to that for the radical cure of congenital hernia (see Vol. IV. p. 403)- INFANTILE HYDROCELE.—-Here the funicular process is open from the internal abdominal ring down to the bottom of the scrotum, but there is no communication with the abdomen. There is often an imperfect impulse on coughing, as the upper end of the hydrocele extends into the inguinal canal, but this form of hydrocele differs from the congenital form in that the fluid does not return into the abdomen. Treatment.—-Injection is not advisable on account of the anatomical situation of the hydrocele. If the swelling is large and does not disappear after a few months, it may be punctured, and evaporating lotions applied ; if this fails to cure it, the child should be left until he is a little older, when the sac should be excised. The treatment is practically the same as that for congenital hydrocele {vide supra). ENCYSTED HYDROCELE OF THE CORD.—Here there is an ovoid swelling somewhere in the course of the cord, usually extending downwards from the external ring and due to effusion of fluid into an unobliterated portion of the funicular process of the peritoneum. The hydrocele varies in size from a small marble to a large brazil-nut, and in the former case is rounded, whilst in the latter it is elongated or ovoid. When the swelling extends up through the external abdominal ring it may be pushed down on coughing, but there is no expansile effect, and