486 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER vein, artery, and ureter. The vein runs almost horizontally, and is a little lower and shorter on the right side than on the left. On the left side it passes in front of the aorta, below the superior mesenteric artery and above the third part of the duodenum. The left renal vein is joined by the left spermatic vein. The renal artery is large, and arises from the side of the aorta a little below the superior mesenteric artery. It divides into three chief branches before it reaches the hilum, and this must be borne in mind when the pedicle of the kidney is ligatured close to the organ itself. One of these branches runs behind the pelvis of the kidney. The kidney is embedded in a mass of fat, called the tunica adiposa, which is thick and plentiful posteriorly and on the convex border of the kidney, but very thin in front ; it is also thick below the lower end of the kidney. This fat is delicate, of a canary-yellow colour, and only loosely connected with the fibrous capsule of the gland, unless inflammation has occurred. The kidney, with the tunica adiposa, is surrounded by a fascia—the peri-nephric fascia—which is sometimes mis- taken for the peritoneum. This fascia is deficient along the inner and lower borders of the kid- ney ; hence the mobility of the kidney in the inward and down- ward direction. The right supra-renal body rests upon the upper pole of the right kidney ; the left is in relation with the upper part of the inner border and slightly with the anterior surface and the upper pole. It is separated by areolar tissue from the kidney, but on the left side the supra-renal vein joins the renal vein, and the relation is more intimate than on the right, where the supra-renal vein goes direct to the vena cava. Relations oi the anterior surface of the kidney.—On the right side, above, the peritoneum is in contact with the kidney, and in front of it is the under-surface of the right lobe of the liver. About the middle, the second part of the duodenum overlaps the kidney, and lower down and to the right, the hepatic flexure of the colon lies in front of it. Fig. 128.—^The Surface-marking or the Kidney FROM THE FRONT. (Mom'S.)