517 NEPHROPTOSIS OR MOVABLE KIDNEY elapsing between the attacks. In other cases the renal pedicle may become twisted sufficiently to interfere with the arterial supply and the venous return ; these circulatory troubles damage the kidney, and haematuria may occur when the venous return is interfered with. Symptoms are often absent in movable kidney, and the condition may only be discovered by the surgeon while examining the patient for some- thing else. When, however, this condition is once realised by the patient, it is remarkable how frequently symptoms arise ; such cases are often associated with neurasthenia. So long as the patient does not know that the kidney is movable—and the surgeon should never inform her, if he discovers it accidentally—there may be no trouble ; when once the patient knows, she is apt to become very morbid and neurasthenic. In many cases, however, a movable kidney gives rise to very distinct symptoms. Those associated with mobility of the kidney alone are pain of an aching character and a feehng of weight and dragging in the loin ; this may be accompanied by attacks of sharp pain referred definitely to the renal region. Nausea or vomiting, constipation, flatulence, and a general dyspeptic condition are also common. The patient is often thin, sallow, and ill-nourished. In some cases the so-called Dietl's crises are met with, and these are supposed to be due to the kidney falling over and compressing the duodenum ; they consist of violent attacks of colic associated with nausea and vomiting and often accompanied by abdominal distension and tenderness, and sometimes by a rise of temperature and signs of collapse. Occasional attacks of jaundice may also occur, probably from pressure of the kidney on the bile-duct. When the kidney is very movable it is not uncommon to find tenderness and pain at McBurney's point, and it is by no means easy to say, in some cases, whether chronic appendicitis is present or not ; in a good many cases this pain still perists after the appendix has been removed. In addition to these general symptoms, there are others especially associated with the kidney itself, such as intermittent hydronephrosis, renal colic, the appearance of a tumour in the loin, hasmaturia or polyuria ; the symptoms may sometimes suggest renal calculus. Most patients with movable kidneys are highly neurasthenic. It is probable that a good many of the cases of so-called Dietl's crises are really cases of incipient hydronephrosis. The early stage of hydro- nephrosis may be made out by injecting a solution of collargol into the renal pelvis and then taking a radiogram (see p. 513). TREIATMEINT.—In considering the question of treatment, it is important to take into account the association of the kidney trouble with enteroptosis or neurasthenia, the presence of comphcations—such as intermittent hydronephrosis or haematuria—and the condition of the kidney itself. Palliative.—When the symptoms are not severe or when the condition is part of a general enteroptosis, it is always well to see what