GOlTRE 117 may be detected in the superior mediastinum. Dullness on percussion may be present, and a fullness in the region of the supra-sternal notch, and, when the patient coughs or swallows, the tumour may become much more evident at the root of the neck as it rises up. Sometimes X-ray examination will reveal the presence of a definite shadow in the upper part of the chest. Dyspnoea, which may be permanent or intermittent and brought on by the slightest exertion, is the most frequent symptom, and we would strongly emphasise the importance of bearing this condition in mind in examining a case in which dyspnoea is a prominent symptom. TREATMENT.—As soon as the condition is diagnosed, operation should be performed. No other treatment can possibly do any good and, as the pressure-effects may at any time suddenly increase, removal should be undertaken without delay. The tumour is generally an adenoma and can be enucleated through a transverse incision at the lower part of the neck. The steps of the operation are the same as those on p. 115. The close proximity of the great vessels, especially the veins, must be borne in mind and care taken not to tear them. When the tumour is cystic or partly cystic, its size may be reduced by puncturing the cyst. It will always be advisable to insert a drainage tube into the cavity left after the removal of the tumour. Treatment of Goitre by Tracheotomy.—Except for the purpose of giving relief to the dyspnoea in malignant disease and in that rare affection called primary chronic inflammation of the thyroid, tracheotomy has no place in the treatment of goitre. At the present day, no patient with a non- malignant goitre ought to be allowed to pass into such a condition as to suggest the necessity for tracheotomy. Even when the dyspnoea is severe, it should be relieved by the removal of one lobe of the gland or of the tumour causing it, and not by tracheotomy. It is true that under these circumstances, such an operation is one of great risk ; but so also is tracheotomy, as the trachea is flattened-—usually laterally—until it is no thicker than an ordinary rib, and it may be extremely difficult to find and open it. The haemorrhage from the engorged veins may be most profuse, and the time spent in trying to find the trachea, under these circum- stances, could be better utilised in relieving the pressure on the trachea by raising and removing the tumour, and then carrying out artificial respiration if necessary. MALIGNANT GOITRE. The usual form of malignant disease of the thyroid is carcinoma, which follows the same course as carcinoma elsewhere, destroying the organ in which it is growing, infecting the neighbouring glands and spreading to other parts of the body. The disease is generally rapidly fatal, six months being about the average duration of life from the time