GALL-STONES 39 no tumour can be felt and no tenderness can be elicited by palpation with the patient in the recumbent position, he should be made to sit up, the surgeon's hand should be pressed deeply inwards below the normal situation of the gall-bladder, and the patient told to take several deep breaths. On deep inspiration the gall-bladder is pushed down against the surgeon's hand, and pain is often elicited towards the end of the inspiration. The relation between gall-stones and jaundice.—Jaundice produced by gall-stones may be due to two distinct causes. On the one hand it may be caused by an inflammatory swelling of the mucous mem- brane of the common duct, set up by the passage of the gall-stones. This form is usually mild and transitory. The other form is tlie deep and persistent variety, which occurs when the common duct is blocked. Blockage of this kind is usually due to the impaction of a biliary calculus, but may also arise from the pressure exerted by tumours or from inflammatory affections in the neighbourhood. At the same time it must be remembered that impaction of a gall-stone in the common duct is not necessarily accompanied by persistent or profound jaundice, as the duct may dilate above the stone and the latter may then merely exert a sort of ball-valve action and allow bile to pass through the duct into the duodenum from time to time. When the stone is faceted, bile may pass in small quantities by the side of the stone even if it is impacted. It is probable that complete occlusion is produced by the inflammatory swelling of the mucous membrane around the stone. Jaundice due to an impacted biliary calculus thus differs is some respects from that due to malignant disease, and it is important to bear this in mind in consider- ing the indications for operation. Jaundice due to malignant disease is intense and persistent, and does not vary in intensity except to become deeper. In bad cases of obstructive jaundice the presence of bile in the blood gives rise to defective coagulating power, and this is a point of great practical importance as it forms a distinct contra-indication to haphazard exploratory operations in cases of obstructive jaundice due to malignant disease, especially of the pancreas. If the cause of the obstruction can be relieved by operation, this want of coagulability of the blood soon passes off; but when this has been impossible, patients have bled to death, and therefore no exploratory operation should be undertaken in cases with profound jaundice, unless there is a fair chance of relieving the obstruction. The prognosis is always doubtful, even in those who suffer from occasional attacks of mild colic, and there is no possibility of pre- dicting the course that any given case will rim, as a series of mild attacks may be followed by severe complications, while, on the other hand, severe attacks may end in permanent cure as the result of the stone giving rise to a communication between the alimentafy canal