AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER 446 blankets. In the intervals, hot fomentations should be applied above the pubes and to the perineum, and in bad cases the rectum may be frequently irrigated with hot water. The distressing tenesmus is best relieved by opium if the state of the kidneys permits ; if the pain is very severe, subcutaneous injections of morphine may be required, but in most cases half-grain morphine suppositories or an enema containing thirty drops of laudanum in two ounces of starch are more valuable. When the tenesmus is excessive, a catheter may be passed into the prostatic urethra, and fifteen drops of a 4 per cent, solution of novocaine introduced. In order to render the urine unirritating, large quantities of diluent drinks should be given, so as to dilute the urine freely. Infusion of linseed, decoction of triticum repens, barley water or toast and water, may be given. The only food in the early stage should be milk; sub- sequently, fish, milk puddings, and white meats may be allowed, but spiced dishes and red meat should be avoided. When the urine is strongly acid, as is often the case in the early stages of acute cystitis, alkalies, such as bicarbonate of soda (gr. xx), liquor potassse (n\ x), or citrate or acetate of potash (gr. xx) may be given frequently. Urinary antiseptics, such as boric acid, salol, cystopurin, or urotropine, in ten-grain doses, are of value when the urine is foul, and particularly when the more acute condition is beginning to pass off. Quinine hydrochloride may be given internally in doses of three grains three times a day. Irrigation of the bladder is not required or desirable in the ordinary cases of acute cystitis, but it may become necessary when the urine is very foul, and drainage through a catheter tied into the bladder may be called for if the latter is not too sensitive. If irrigation is necessary, the best plan is to employ a double-way catheter, occasionally closing the outflow so that the bladder may be gently distended and the pus dislodged from its folds. Irrigation performed in this manner often arrests the decomposition. The fluid used should be normal saline solution or boric lotion at the body temperatvure. Strong antiseptics or astringents should be avoided in the acute stages. When the disease becomes sub-acute and the inflammation has almost subsided, but there is still a considerable amount of mucus in the urine, drugs which exert powerful control over the secretion from the bladder may be employed, such as turpentine (ITtx), terebene (Tllx), oil of sandal-wood (Tl\xv), or tincture of cantharides (n\v), and, unless there is distinct alkahnity of the urine, alkaUes are generally valuable. Should the inflammation not clear up entirely, some form of intra- vesical medication will be indicated. In the first instance, warm boric lotion may be used, but, as the disease becomes more chronic, it may be replaced by resorcin (5 to 10 per cent, solution) every alternate day. One of the best injections is nitrate of silver {h per cent, solution), half