AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 88 centre of the muscle, which has all the characters of a hsematoma and which is probably due to damage during delivery, especially in cases of breech presentations. The condition is mainly of importance because it is very apt to be followed by wryneck (see p. 73). The swelling usually subsides in about five or six weeks without any treatment. It will be necessary to take appropriate measures to treat wryneck should that condition (see p. 75) occur. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. Boils and carbuncles (see Vol. II. p. 4) are not infrequently met with on the back of the neck, particularly about the level of the collar where the neck is being constantly rubbed. Deeper seated suppurations also occur, and the very severe form known as Ludwig's angina (see Vol. IV. p. 115) is not at aU uncommon. Suppuration in the cervical glands is dealt with on p. gi. Chronic abscesses in the neck are practically always associated with tuberculous enlargement of the lymphatic glands or with spinal disease. These are referred to on p. 94. Retro-pharyngeal abscesses, both acute and chronic, are fully described in Vol. IV. p. 143. • TUMOURS. New growths may occur in connection with various structures in the neck, such as the skin, muscles, glands, fascise, or bones. LIPOMA. The neck is one of the commonest seats of lipoma and in this situation it is met with either as a definite encapsuled tumour or as a diffuse lipoma. The diffuse lipoma is frequently met with, and forms large fatty masses on each side of the nape of the neck, beneath the chin, or just above the clavicles ; sometimes the entire neck may become affected. The condition steadily increases, but rarely causes any trouble beyond the deformity, although in some cases there may be a good deal of neuralgic pain. TRBATMEISTT.—It may be advisable to remove portions of the diffuse tumours, either on account of pain or to improve the patient's personal appearance ; but the operation is not very satisfactory, as it is exceedingly difficult to dissect awaj^ all the newly formed fat, and unless this can be done there is a great tendency to recurrence. It is fairly easy to distinguish between the newly formed and the normal fat by the greater