139 TRACHEOTOMY retained and the inner tube frequently changed ; as soon, however, as the discharge becomes thin and watery, but is present in sufficient quantity to render it impossible to dispense with the tube entirely, the rubber tube introduced by Morrant Baker (see Fig. 34) should be substituted. This is soft and flexible, and is therefore not nearly so irritating or so likely to produce ulceration of the trachea. The pi-olonged retention of a silver tube, especially if it does not fit perfectly, is a frequent cause of severe ulceration of the wall of the trachea and necrosis of the cartilages ; in some cases a peri-oesophageal abscess or a direct communication with the oesophagus may form. The india-rubber tube should never be used at first, as, having no inner tube, it can only be cleaned by removing it, and further, owing to its softness, it may become occluded by the lateral pressure of the muscles of the neck ; it should therefore only be employed after the discharge has become thin and the opening fairly rigid. The rubber tube must be properly made, as it has happened that the shield has become detached and the tube has slipped into the trachea. Should this occur, it is usually fairly easy to withdraw it by introducing forceps into the trachea, and grasping the tube. When the india-rubber tube is used, a large hole should be cut in its upper convex surface, so that a certain amount of air passes through the larynx as well as through the tracheotomy opening, and frequent attempts should be made by closing the latter to accustom the child to breathe normally through the larynx. Silver tubes can also be obtained with a hole in the convexity corresponding to the aperture of the larynx. Tubes may be provided with a valve, which opens on inspiration and closes on expiration, thus forcing the air through the larynx. When the child can breathe freely after the external aperture has been plugged, attempts should be made to leave out the tube. In the first instance this must only be done when the surgeon is present, as spasm is very likely to occur in nervous children from the mere thought that they are without the tube ; this may necessitate its immediate re-introduction. In any case the tube should not be left out for more than half an hour or so on the first occasion. Each succeeding period may be gradually lengthened until the tube may often be given up altogether in the course of about a week. Should spasm always occur after the tube is removed, although it is obvious that there is a free passage through the larynx, confidence may be restored by shorten- ing the tube so much that the child wears little more than a shield, behind which cicatrisation of the wound can take place. Another method of encouraging the use of laryngeal breathing is to make the child blow out a light, blow a whistle, or play a musical instrument. The general treatment of the patient will depend upon the condition for which the tracheotomy is performed.