FRACTURE OF THE STERNUM 199 INJURIES TO THE COSTAL CARTILAGES. These may take the form of fracture of the cartilages, or separation between them and the ends of the ribs. Fracture is most common at an advanced age when extensive calcification of the cartilage has occurred, whilst separation of the cartilages from the ribs is more frequent in adult life. These accidents are generally due to severe direct injury, and fracture usually occurs towards the costal end of the cartilage, those most frequently injured being the lower ones—the eighth more often than the others. The treatment is similar to that for fracture of the ribs (see p. ig6). DISLOCATION OF THE COSTAL CARTILAGES FROM THE STERNUM. When this rare injury occurs, the end of the cartilage usually projects forwards in front of the sternum ; occasionally, however, it may be situated behind that bone. TREATMENT.—An attempt should be made to get the end of the cartilage into position by making the patient lie upon the back with a firm narrow pillow or sand-bag between the scapulae, and take a deep inspiration. When the cartilage is dislocated behind the sternum, re-position is not easy without exposing the seat of injury by operation, when the cartilage can either be pulled back into place or, failing that, a portion may be excised. It is always advisable to operate when the end of the cartilage is driven backwards, otherwise injurious pressure may be caused. When re-position has been effected, the treatment is similar to that for fractures of the ribs (see p. 196). FRACTURE OF THE STERNUM. This injury is usually part of a severe crush of the thorax, and the fracture may occur at any part of the bone, but is most common at the junction of the manubrium with the gladiolus. It is generally a fracture- dislocation, although it may occasionally be a true separation at the joint ; there is usually httle displacement ; if there is, the lower fragment occupies a plane somewhat anterior to the upper. TREATMENT.—If the depression is slight and does not cause symptoms, nothing need be done ; otherwise the displacement may some- times be reduced by hyper-extenchng the upper dorsal spine over a large sand-bag, when the two fragments are disentangled and come into position. Should this fail, the seat of injury may be exposed by turning up a flap and elevating the depressed fragment, and if necessary fixing it by a plate and screws.