TUBERCULOUS EPIDIDYMITIS AND ORCHITIS 303 and therefore the removal of the epididymis and vas in no way affects the patient's generative power, while the early performance of the operation gives him a much greater chance of recovery. The chief objection urged against this operation is that it is often only partial, because the disease may be present in the body of the testis itself; this no doubt is true in a good many cases unless the operation is performed at quite an early stage. There is, however, no reason why the operation should not be successful even then, provided that the tubercles left behind are fairly isolated and not in large masses. Moreover, the operation cuts off the communication between the testis and the rest of the genito-urinary system, and any recurrence that takes place in the testis can be treated locally by scraping out sinuses, etc. It is also urged that the testis may be found seriously diseased, and that castration may be necessary after all. This may certainly be the case, but the surgeon is then, at any rate, sure that he has not needlessly sacrificed an important organ. Epididymectomy is especially important in the case of the testicle first affected, because the disease is often more acute in the second testicle and may then necessitate castration. Among the most serious objections to this operation is the risk of interference with the blood-supply to the testis and consequent necrosis of that organ. This has certainly happened, and great care must be taken not to carry out the operation when the disease is so exten- sive that it is necessary to interfere with the blood-supply, and also to preserve the vascular supply intact when the case is suitable for epididymectomy. It is evident that the operation is well worthy of consideration, but it must be employed with judgment and is not applicable to every case. It is distinctly contra-indicated when the entire body of the testis is diseased, when there is a deposit in the centre of the testicle, when there are advanced lesions of the vesiculae and prostate—especially .with sup- puration—when the urinary system is invaded, and when the patient suffers from advanced phthisis. In the last two cases castration or scraping should be employed if operation is necessary, but, as a rule, expectant treatment will be most suitable.