137 TRACHEOTOMY axis does not coincide with that of the trachea. The bivalve tube (see Fig. 33) is bad for permanent use as its sharp edges may cause ulceration of the posterior wall of the trachea, but it is a very valuable emergency tube as it occupies a small compass and can be readily introduced. The introduction of the tube in the high operation is perfectly easy if the sharp hooks have been employed as described above to steady the trachea, or if a dilator has been introduced and the blades are held open. The handle of the knife introduced into the incision in the trachea and turned transversely is also a convenient means of facilitating the intro- duction of the tube, or the tube itself may be used to depress one side of the tracheal incision, whilst it is being slipped in. When the tube has been inserted into the wound, care must be taken to see that air passes freely through it, as in fat patients in whom the trachea is deeply seated, it is easy to force the tube down in front or to one side of the trachea. It is in these cases that a Durham's tube is particularly valuable, as the thickness of the soft parts over the trachea may be allowed for by altering the position of the shield. Before introcUrction, the tube should be threaded with tapes, which are passed round the neck and tied together at some little distance from the edge of the wound so that the knot does not interfere with the wound or press upon the vessels. Care must l)e also taken to see that Fig. 33. — Bivalve Tracheotomy Tube and Inner Tube. There is no introducer to this tube. It is inserted by squeezing together the two wings the tape is not tied sufficiently °*t.'Xc?"' " "''^ '"'^ *° tightly to embarrass the venous circulation. After the tube has been inserted, silkworm-gut stitches are introduced into the wound above and below the opening so as to close the greater part of the incision. The best dressing is a piece of boric lint spread with eucalyptus oint- ment and slit vertically through half its depth so that it can be drawn up on each side of the tube beneath the flange. Layers of gauze wrung out of hot water, and sprinkled with a little terebene, should be laid over the orifice of the tube ; this should be changed every half-hour or so. The inner tube should be removed two or three times a day, washed and boiled ; should obstruction arise, the tube must be removed immediately and thoroughly cleaned out. Special nurses must be on duty night and day to see that the tube works satisfactorily, and it is important that all material coughed up through the tube should be wiped away immediately with a fresh piece of gauze, so that it does not become sucked back into the trachea. Should the trachea not be completely emptied, it is well