513 PYELOGRAPHY perform a conservative operation. It is also invaluable in showing the relation of the kidney to obscure abdominal tumours, and to radiographic shadows supposed to be urinary calculi. It has also been applied to other diseases of the kidney, but the practical use in these is less striking. Collargol is the drug best suited for the purpose. It is used in a 10 per cent, or even a 20 per cent, solution. The method is as follows :— The collargol solution is heated to a little above the body temperature. The barrel of a glass syringe of 40 c.c. capacity is used, and the needle fits into the ureteric catheter. A ureteric catheter opaque to the X-rays is used. No general anaesthetic is used, and no morphine should be adminis- tered before the operation. The ureteric catheter is passed up to the pelvis of the kidney in the manner already described, and the contents allowed to run oft'. The barrel of the syringe is filled Avith warm collargol solution, and the needle is inserted into the end of the catheter and raised to the full extent, which the free end of the catheter permits (usually about 6 inches). The collargol solution slowly settles down in the syringe and fills the renal pelvis. At the first sign of discomfort in the kidney, the instillation is stopped, the catheter plugged, and a radiogram taken. The plug is then removed and the collargol solution allowed to run off, the pelvis being washed out with boric lotion. By this method, very beautiful pictures of the renal pelvis and calyces are obtained. Early hydronephrosis is indicated by clubbing of the calyces and by reduction of the angle between the lowest calyx and the upper end of the ureter. The position of the ob- struction can also be shown, and the author has been able by this method to make an accurate diagnosis of an abnormal renal vessel causing hydronephrosis when the kidney could not be felt on palpation. The position of the kidney in obscure abdominal tumours has also been shown in cases of hydatid cyst, peri-renal sarcoma, and displaced and adherent liver, as well as the relation of the renal pelvis and calyces to a shadow which was found to be thrown by a gall-stone. For further details of the method and its use, the reader is referred to the following articles by the author: Lancet, igii, June 17; 'Medical Society's Transactions,' vol. xxxv., 1912 ; ' Annals of Surgery,' 1913. The use of this method is attended with some degree of risk in unskilful and unpractised hands. Rupture of the renal pelvis and injection of the tubules of the kidney have been recorded when the fluid has been injected under considerable force. The utmost gentleness and delicacy of manipulation are imperative, and no an;esthetic should be administered.