CATHETERISATION OF THE URETERS The cystoscope is withdrawn, leaving the catheter in position. A urethral catheter is passed, and the bladder emptied and the catheter tied in. The ureteric catheter is fixed to the thigh of the side to which it belongs by means of a strip of adhesive plaster. Between the thigh, a sterilised bottle, labelled right and another labelled left, are placed, the neck of each being covered with several layers of sterilised gauze, and through these the catheters are inserted into the bottles. The knees may be held together by pinning a broadly folded towel round them. The patient is made as comfortable as possible. One of the following tests for the renal function is now used:—■ 1. Phloridzin test.—A subcutaneous injection of 5 milligrammes of phloridzin is given. Sugar is detected in the urine in a normal kidney in from fifteen to twenty minutes, and continues for two to two and a half hours. An injection of 5 milligrammes of phloridzin will normall}' produce from i to 2 grammes of glucose. In healthy individuals, the elimination of glucose by the two kidneys is equal and parallel. When disease of the kidney is present, the appearance of glucose is delayed, and the amount produced by this organ is diminished. Glucose is completely absent if there is advanced disease of the kidney. For this test, the catTieter is retained for two or two and a half hours ; the urine is tested for sugar several times during the first three-quarters of an hour to ascertain when the elimination commences, and at the end of two hours to see if the elimination has ceased. The total quantity of glucose present in the urine is estimated. The functional power of the kidney is judged by the presence or absence of delay in commencement of elimination and the total quantity of sugar eliminated. 3. The Phenol-sulphone phthalein test.—This consists in injecting a solution of phenol-sulphone phthalein hypodermicallv, and observing the time of appearance and the percentage eliminated during the first three hours. A diuretic is given half an hour before commencing the test. One cubic centimetre of phenol-sulphone phthalein solution (6 mgr.) is injected hvpodermically. A few drops of sodium hydrate solution (25 per cent.) are placed in two test-tubes, and the urine from the catheter allowed to drop into these. When the drug commences to pass, a definite pink colour appears, and, as the quantity increases, this darkens to a well-marked magenta. The quantity of the drug eliminated is estimated by the use of a colorimeter (' The Universal Colorimeter,' Lancet, 1912, vol. i. p. 438). In normal cases, the colouring material is said to appear in from five to ten minutes ; 40 to 60 per cent, of the drug is excreted in the first hour, 20 to 25 per cent, in the second hour, and 60 to 85 per cent, in the whole of the first two hours. 3. The Indigo-carmine test.—A tablet containing o-i6 gramme of