PERSISTENT HYDRONEPHROSIS 581 atrophy of the kidney substance is apt to take place before any large swelling has formed. The affection is more common in women than in men. The pelvis and calyces of the kidney become greatly dilated, and the cortex is compressed and atrophied. The kidney is frequently compara- tively small, but occasionally it forms a large tumour, which may fill a large part of the abdomen, and then adhesions may occur between the capsule and the peritoneum or the intestine. The fluid in long-standing cases consists of water, with a little chloride of sodium, and an almost entire absence of albumen, uric acid, or urea. The symptoms may extend over a number of years and vary much in intensity; in some cases, the condition may not give rise to any symptoms. When present, they consist mainly of pain in the back, frequent micturition, and a feeling of weight and dragging. When the affection is bilateral, nausea, sickness, a dry sallow skin, and some degree of uraemia may be present. The hydronephrotic tumour is irregular in outline and lobulated, situated in the flank, easily pressed backwards into the loin, and displacing the colon forwards. The situation and shape of the tumour, the history, the presence of the colon in front and to its inner side, accompanied by dullness in the flank and loin, together with the fact that the patient at times passes too little urine, whilst at others there is an unduly large quantity—these periods, corresponding with the variation in size of the tumour—should enable a diagnosis to be made. Puncture of the swelling from the loin, and examination of its contents, will still further clear up the matter. This must be done with great care, otherwise the colon may be injured. The best point for puncture is midway between the last rib and the crest of the iHum, about two and a half inches behind the level of the anterior superior spine. A needle passed horizontally in at this point would puncture the colon in a healthy subject, but hydronephrotic tumours, which are large enough to require tapping, will displace the colon sufficiently far forwards for it to escape damage. A moderately fine aspirating-needle is employed without an evacuating-bottle, as the fluid is thin, and the pressure within the cyst is sufficient to make it flow readily. The prognosis depends on the cause of the distension, and on whether one or both kidneys are involved. In the latter case, the patient may gradually die of urtemic poisoning or from pressure on the neighbouring organs, or from rupture of the sac into the peritoneal cavity. In a few cases, the tumour has disappeared spontaneously. TREATMENT.—The first point is to look for any condition in the lower urinary tract which may account for the affection, and if there is one, to remove it. Strictures of the urethra, enlarged prostate, or any bladder mischief, should be suitably treated if found. Pelvic tumours must be removed if possible ; if not, the question of dividing the ureter