227 INFLAMMATION OF THE PLEURA the portions of the ribs lying in the space thus marked out must be removed. If the cavity is small, only two or three ribs need be taken away, but with large cavities portions of several ribs must be removed. The method of exposing the ribs will depend upon circumstances, but as a rule it is best done by a flap which is so marked out as to expose the whole extent of the cavity. No precise rules can be given for the formation of this flap as it must depend on the conditions present. Probably the flap that will least interfere with the muscles will be one with its convexity forwards and downwards. The flap must be larger than the cavity beneath it so as to give plent}' of room, and it should take everything off the thoracic wall except the intercostal muscles. When the flap is raised, the bleeding points should be secured before going further. The finger is now introduced into the cavity, and the exact extent of each rib that requires removal is ascertained ; the amount of each rib requiring resection depends upon the size of the cavit}' beneath. The periosteum over each is then incised and separated from the rib, and the desired portion taken away (see p. 221). In bad cases the upper ribs must be resected, but it is never advisable to remove any portion of the first rib, and it is doubtful whether removal of the second is necessary ; the required amount of all the other ribs should be excised without hesitation. The patient's condition may be so bad that it may not be safe to remove all the necessary ribs at one operation, and in this case it will be better to attempt to obtain closure of one part of the cavity and to leave the remainder for a second operation. After the necessary portions of rib have been removed sub-periosteally, the whole of the periosteum and thickened pleura forming the outer wall of the cavity should be cut away with scissors in one piece. The incision should commence posteriorly, and the intercostal vessels are caught as they are divided ; there is generally very little haemorrhage, as the intercostal vessels are largely obliterated by the great thickening, present. In any case, there is no difficulty in arresting the bleeding as there is plenty of room to seize the vessels, provided that the ribs be excised sub-periosteally and separately before the pleura is removed. The removal of the pleura and periosteum leaves a cavity, the floor of which is formed by the thickened pleura covering the collapsed lung. This cavity is now cleaned as thoroughly as possible and, if thought desirable, the granulation tissue lining it is scraped away with a sharp spoon, although this is not essential. Decortication of the lung (see p. 228) may now be carried out if desired; but this is not an essential part of Estlander's operation, the object of which is to allow the soft parts to fall in and come into contact with the collapsed lung rather than to promote the expansion of that organ. The flap of soft parts is now laid back in position, and if a sufficient amount of the thoracic parietes has been taken away, the flap will come y