SIMPLE ENLARGEMENT 415 these cases. In the first place, the bladder should not be suddenly emptied of all the urine. The urine should be withdrawn slowly while the patient is in bed in the recumbent position. If there is great distension of the bladder, it is advisable to tie in a No. 5 or 6 catheter and allow the water to dribble away. Sudden emptying of the bladder may not only cause faintness, but may also lead to haemorrhage into its cavity; and some- times after a rapid evacuation, the kidneys cease to excrete urine, and the patient passes into a uraemic state and dies. Special care must also be exercised to prevent infection, as, owing to the obstruction to the outflow of the urine, the bladder is not easily emptied by the natural expulsive act. Further, the mucous membrane of the bladder is not healthy, and therefore bacteria may establish themselves in it more easily than in a normal organ. Epididymitis is not uncommon, and, with the view of avoiding it, patients who are the subjects of prostatic enlargement should wear a suspensory bandage, and the greatest possible care should be taken in securing asepsis of the instruments. The treatment is similar to that of epididymitis from other causes, and is described on p. 293. It has been suggested that, when there are frequently recurring attacks of epididy- mitis, vasectomy should be performed—not only on account of its effect upon the prostate, but also in order to cut ol^ direct communication between the testis and the urethra. In these cases, however, the question of prostatectomy should be considered, and if it is unadvisable, owing to the general state of the patient, it may be necessary to establish supra-pubic drainage, which may also be necessary when the urethra has become so irritable that catheters cannot be used, when the obstruc- tion is so great that no instrument can be passed, or when severe cystitis is present, provided always that prostatectomy cannot be performed. The operation is the same as that for supra-pubic cystotomy ; the mucous membrane of the bladder is stitched to the skin and, when healing is complete, a permanent drainage tube is arranged. Witzel has suggested that the opening should be made into the bladder on the principle of his operation for gastrostomy, the catheter being introduced when required, and removed in the interval; the valvular opening will then prevent leakage. For free hcFiiiaiima, the best procedure is to introduce a large catheter in the first instance and tie it in, in the hope that its pressure will arrest the bleeding. When, however, there is much clot in the bladder, the eye of the catheter will get blocked, and the clots must be removed as soon as possible, as not only will they lead to acute retention, but decomposition, followed by very serious cystitis, will occur. As a rule, this may be done by attaching an evacuating apparatus (Fig. 126) to the catheter and sucking the clots up through the tube. Drugs given internally—except possibly ergotinine citrate (gr. j-^^) administered hypodermically—seem to have no effect on the bleeding. When the haemorrhage is severe.