CHAPTER XXXIV. 345 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE URETHRA : URETHRAL CALCULUS. Foreign bodies in the urethra may be either introduced through the meatus or come down from the bladder or prostate. Of those introduced through the meatus the most common are portions of catheter broken off from a faulty instmment, pencils, bonnet-pins, or pieces of wood. A broken-off portion of catheter generally lodges in the deep urethra, but the other foreign bodies of this type are usually met with in the front half of the penile portion. Those which come from above are calculi of various kinds. They may lodge in the fossa navicularis, in the penile portion, or at the junction of the membranous with the prostatic urethra. The stones usually come from the kidney, and are small rounded or ovoid bodies. In other cases they may consist of small portions detached from a larger stone in the bladder, and they are then sharp and irregular, and may cause much trouble from impaction. Prostatic calculi may also escape into the urethra. Impaction of a calculus in the urethra is of common occurrence in children ; sudden retention of urine in a little boy is almost invariably due to this cause. The presence of a foreign body in the urethra leads to partial or complete interference with the passage of urine, and if present for some time it causes urethritis, especially if impaction has occurred. The history is usually sufficient to lead to a correct diagnosis. The patient is generally seized with a sudden sharp pain on micturition accompanied by stoppage of the flow and followed by partial or compilete retention ; if the urine can pass alongside the stone, the urinary stream is feeble and broken up. Profuse urethritis vsith blood-stained pus often occurs after impaction has lasted for some time. When the calculus is sharp and is impacted in the urethral mucous membrane, there may be oozing of blood from the meatus independent of micturition ; when this occurs without a history of injury and without the presence of gonorrhoea, it is very characteristic of an impacted stone. When the stone is situated in the fossa navicularis it can be felt and may be seen through the meatus. When it is in the penile portion it can be grasped between the