AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST 174 TREATMENT.—Isolated cysts can generally be readily cured by withdrawing the fluid and injecting a few drops of undiluted carbolic acid into the sac. As a result, the cyst wall becomes inflamed and the cyst fills up, but the fluid becomes absorbed in a few days and a cure results. Any fresh cysts can be treated similarly as they arise, and thus an operation is avoided. If, however, the cyst forms part of a fibro-adenoma, or if a solid mass is left after removal of the fluid the quadrant of the breast containing the cyst should be excised and a rapid section made to ascertain if it is malignant. If it is not malignant this will suffice, and in some cases a radical cure will follow this procedure; unfortunately, however, it is not uncommon on cutting into the breast to find that smaller cysts are scattered throughout its substance, and if a radical cure is desired there is no alternative but to remove the rest of the breast. It is for this reason that we advise a trial of tapping and injection, as this procedure is painless and avoids an operation, whereas on the other hand the only true alternative may be complete removal of the breast; excision of the affected area of the breast often ends in disappointment. If malignant disease is found on making a section, the operation described on p. i8i must be performed. GALACTOCELE. By the term ' galactocele ' is understood a cyst containing milk which is more or less altered in character. The swelling occurs during lactation and is due to dilatation of one of the larger ducts as the result of partial obstruction to the passage of the milk. That the obstruction is only partial is proved by the fact that pressure on a galactocele as a rule leads to a discharge of milk from the nipple and partial emptying of the sac. Sometimes these cysts follow injury and are then supposed to be due to rupture of the duct. They are innocent tumours, and fluctuation can generally be made out in them. TREATMENT.—The best plan is to excise the galactocele through an incision radiating from the nipple. It is sufficient to remove the cyst itself and a radical cure results. After the cyst has been removed, the adjacent parts of the breast should be brought together with catgut sutuies and a drainage tube inserted for two or three days. If excision is objected to, tapping and injection with carbolic acid may be employed, but the contents are thick and difficult to remove and the result is not nearly so certain as in the ordinary simple serous cyst. CARCINOMA. There are two principal forms of cancer of the breast—namely, those in which the disease commences in connection with the acini—the ordinary