451 BACTERIURIA also arise secondarily to inflammation of the seminal vesicles, the ureters, the pelvic bones, or the Fallopian tubes. The most common seat of peri-vesical inflammation is the space of Retzius, which is bounded in front by the pubes and the anterior layer of the transversalis fascia; behind, by the anterior wall of the bladder with its covering derived from the posterior layer of the transversalis fascia; below, by the capsule of the prostate and the pelvic fascia; and above, by the approximation of the two layers of transversalis fascia. Purulent inflammation in this region may burrow up under the recti or may pass backwards to the rectum or to the iliac fossa on either side, and the prognosis is extremely grave. The diagnosis is comparatively easy ; there are symptoms of in- flammation, accompanied by a brawny, painful induration immediately above the pubes, and fluctuation may be detected at some part of the swelling. The treatment should be free incision and drainage ; should it be found that rupture or perforation of the bladder has also occurred, suitable treatment must be adopted for that (see p. 437). BACTERIURIA. Micro-organisms are frequently found in the urine in cases of general infection, especially typhoid fever. These usually disappear as the patient recovers, although in the case of typhoid fever they may persist for a long time. There are other cases of ' true bacteriuria ' in which organisms—the commonest by far being the bacillus coli communis— are present in large numbers without any inflammatory reaction in the mucous membrane of the urinary passages, which seems to tolerate the organism much in the same way as the mucous membrane of the alimentary tract does. In addition to the bacillus coli, staphylococcus albus and various forms of proteus may be found. This condition may last for a long time and may lead to a true cystitis. Cases also occur, intermediate between a pure bacteriuria and a cystitis, in which a few pus-cells and a small amount of mucus are present in the urine. It is probable that in most cases the disease is produced by the passage of organisms from the alimentary tract to the bladder via the blood-stream. The affection occiurs most commonly in men at or past middle age, and is often associated with enlarged prostate. The most constant symptom is frequency of micturition. Symptoms of absorption of bacterial toxins are as a rule absent, and the onset of severe symptoms indicates that cystitis is present. The urine is often slightly turbid, pale, and acid in reaction. The diagnosis is made on the bacteriological examination, the organisms being in such numbers that they can be detected readily on microscopic examination. G G 2