5i8 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER can be done by non-operative means in the first instance. These have for their object : to improve the patient's general condition and increase the fat; to strengthen the muscles so that they support the abdominal organs—if necessary, to assist them by a suitable abdominal support; to treat anaemia or neurasthenia if present, and to regulate the bowels. In the first place, a modified Weir Mitchell course may be of benefit. The patient is confined to bed for three to six weeks, and has daily massage —with special attention to the lumbar and abdominal muscles—much as in an ordinary case of neurasthenia. A certain amount of overfeeding should be practised, and large quantities of milk may be ordered with advantage. Cod-liver oil is useful, and should be combined with iron if the patient is anaemic. The bowels should be regulated. When the patient gets up, an abdominal support (see Vol. IV. p. 512) should be worn ; it should be shaped so as to lift and support the lower part of the abdomen and to give uniform support all over. A pad placed beneath the aft'ected kidney, without any general support (as is sometimes ordered), is useless, because it is difficult to employ sufficient pressure below the kidney to keep it up, but in some cases a special pad in the right iliac region, under an abdominal belt, may be of value. Tight lacing must be interdicted, as well as violent strains, or any exertion that will produce sudden deep descent of the diaphragm. Change of scene and avoidance of worry should be secured if possible. If treatment of this kind, carried out for a considerable time, improves the condition, operative interference is unnecessary, more especially as the improvement indicates that the symptoms are due rather to enteroptosis than to the movable kidney. The patient will sometimes give a hint as to whether support will be successful by volunteering the statement that tightening the corsets relieves the dragging pain. Operative.—Operative interference will be called for : («) when the measures above suggested fail to relieve the patient, and the symptoms are definitely associated with the kidney alone and not combined with those of marked enteroptosis; {b) when the patient suffers from repeated attacks of renal colic; (c) when there are signs of intermittent hydro- nephrosis or interference with the circulation through the hilum. These two conditions may occur separately or together, and the latter is generally indicated by hasmaturia. As to the efficacy and desirability of operation in cases of movable kidney associated with renal colic or intermittent hydronephrosis, there are no two opinions, but with regard to the value of the operation in the other conditions to which we have referred very diverse views are held ; the general trend is against operation, but a few surgeons strongly advocate it. When the kidney is healthy, when the symptoms are definitely con- fined to the kidney, and when the patient is not markedly neurotic, nephropexy is a satisfactory operation in the majority of cases;