AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 330 fastened in position, a raw surface is left, which is closed by sliding in a rounded flap (see Fig. 82, C), and suturing it in position. This flap Fig. 85.—Urethroplasty for Hypospadias. Forming the new urethra. ^, shows the penis applied to the surface of the scrotum, the t*o lateral flaps bent upon one another, and their opposed surfaces fastened by sutures passing over a rubber rod. B, is a diagrammatic cross-section to show how the sutures are inserted. The large continuous circle represents the catheter; the wall of the urethra above it is formed by the skin lining the original urethral groove; the wall of the urethra below it by the skin of the scrotum. The four small black circles represent the rubber rods or catheters over which the sutures are tied as shown in the diagram. [Modified from Bucknall.) will usually be composed of the redundant tissue on one side of the glans. In the case of fistuls in front of the scrotum, double flaps are cut as before, but the second flap is derived from scrotal tissue. Fine chromicised catgut is best for the sutures, except for the skin, for which horsehair is preferable. The parts are extremely delicate, and it is therefore necessary to use fine needles — preferably, ordinary sewing or curved intestinal needles. Accuracy in suturing is indispen- sable, and it is important to get a good hold on the skin-flaps so that the stitches will not cut out when the parts are moistened with urine. Strips of moist boric lint wrapped round the organ, and changed as often as they become soiled with urine, are probably the most satis- factory dressings. There is no par- ticular advantage in keeping a catheter tied in, and it may set up urethritis and exert tension on the stitches, while it does not always succeed in keeping the wound dry, as urine may escape beside it. Fig. 86.—Urethroplasty for Hypospadias. Straightening the penis. The adherent penis is raised from the scrotum by raising it with the large flap shown in the figure. The sutures are inserted to show how all the raw surface may be covered in.