568 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER be given daily. Tlie patient should be kept in bed as long as there is any suppuration, but when the wound has contracted to a small size and only emits urine, he may be allowed to go about wearing a suitable apparatus to catch it. Convalescence may last from a fortnight up to several months. Nephrectomy.—The cases for which this operation may be required have been indicated on p. 565. The lumbar incision should be employed (see p. 565), as the ureter may have to be followed down for a considerable distance ; if more room is required, it may be obtained by removing the last rib sub-periosteally. The abdominal route is not as a rule advisable in nephrectomy for a stone, as pus is practically always present in these cases ; in the great majority of cases of renal stone, the organ can be removed perfectly easily through a lumbar incision, combined if necessary with the extension upwards described on p. 565. The peri-nephric adhesions are usually numerous ; in clearing the kidney it may be ruptured, and pus will escape into the wound. The pedicle is exposed, and the kidney is drawn out of the wound if possible ; this must be done very cautiously lest the pedicle be shrunken and unable to bear traction (see p. 553). If the kidney cannot be brought out on the loin it must be cleared in situ, and when this has been effected the ureter should be sought for, isolated, and clamped. An aneurysm- needle, carrying a long stout silk hgature, is next insinuated through the middle of the pedicle as near the spine as possible, so as to leave sufficient length of pedicle on the renal side of the ligature, and divided into two. Each half of the hgature is tied separately and firmly, and finally one of them is carried round so as to enclose the whole pedicle, and its ends are left long so as to enable the pedicle to be examined for bleeding afterwards. A point of importance is to put the pedicle on the stretch while passing the aneurysm-needle, but to push the kidney back and relax the pedicle completely, as the ligature is tightened; unless this is done, the vessels may shp out of the hgature. After the vessels have been tied, they are divided close to the kidney, and then the latter is brought out on the loin and the ureter examined and dealt with according to circumstances. The first essential is to ascertain whether a stone is impacted in the ureter, and this can be done by making a puncture into it below a clamp placed upon its upper end and passing down a ureteral sound ; it may generally be assumed that there is no obstruction if the ureter is not dilated below the kidney, and in that case it is ligatured about an inch below the pelvis, the kidney cut away, and the end of the ureter invaginated and sutured much in the way that a divided portion of intestine is treated. Finally, the pedicle is examined to make sure that all the vessels are secured ; any oozing points are tied separately. Furious haemorrhage is occasionally met with in the course of nephrectomy. Sometimes it is due to too severe traction upon the pedicle,