GOlTRE 107 furious and even fatal hfemorrhage was common, and it was owing to the fear of this that such a ver}^ imperfect operation as simple division of the thyroid isthmus was introduced. Thyroidectomy.—The ancEstheiic question is important, and if a general antesthetic is employed the administrator should be a skilled anaesthetist. Many deaths have occurred from the anaesthetic, and cases are constantly met with tha.t give rise to grave anxiety. Many surgeons, especially abroad, have abandoned the use of general anaesthesia, and perform the operation under local anaesthesia by the infiltration method (see Vol. I. p. 484). These operations performed under local anaesthesia are not accompanied by any great amount of pain ; the patient often complains of the dragging and choking sensations caused by the manipu- lations, but very little pain occurs at any stage, except at the moment of ' dislocating ' the enlarged gland. It is also urged as a great advantage of local anaesthesia that the safety of the recurrent laryngeal nerve can be ascertained from time to time by making the patient talk. When a general anaesthetic is employed, the patient need never be deeply under its influence. If possible, he should be placed in the semi-recumbent position, with a sand-bag beneath the neck so as to throw the head well back and render the tumour prominent. If, however, this position should cause eml^arrassment to respiration, the anaesthetic must l)e administered in the position of greatest ease, and in this the patient must remain—at any rate, during the earlier stages of the operation. The anassthetic should be administered with extreme care and very slowly, and should be either chloroform or ether given by the open method. Ether administered by a Clover's inhaler causes marked venous engorgement and unduly free bleeding. In large goitres the intra-tracheal insufflation method gives very satisfactory results. The operation must be performed with the most scrupulous antiseptic precautions, as, if suppuration takes place in the wound left by the removal of the goitre, the most serious consequences are likely to ensue ; the pus burrows into the mediastinum, and septic thrombosis followed by fatal py;iemia is very liable to occur. If sufficient care be taken to keep the wound aseptic, all danger should be at an end when the operation is complete. The head should be wrapped in an aseptic towel to keep the hair out of the way, and the skin of the neck should be thoroughly disinfected. Various incisions have l)een recommended, but the best and the only one which we recommend is the transverse incision introduced by Kocher. This incision (see Fig. 25) has a slight convexity downwards, and com- mences over the sterno-mastoid muscle on one side and terminates at a corresponding point on the opposite side. Tlie incision should be placed as low down in the neck as possible, and its exact length will depend on the size of the tumour. It should be sufficiently long in all cases to ensure full exposure of the gland. At each end, the incision is carried