206 AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX INJURIES TO THE THORACIC CONTENTS. These form a much larger group of cases, and may result from com- pression of the chest, from fractures of the ribs, or even from muscular action. INJURY OF THE DIAPHRAGM. This usually occurs as a part of a very severe injury, but it is sometimes due to bayonet or gunshot wounds; rupture has also been known to occur from violent straining. The opening in the diaphragm may be large or small and the left side is most often affected. Various abdominal viscera may find their way through the opening into the pleural cavity, giving rise to the so-called ' diaphragmatic hernia,' which, however, is not a true hernia as it possesses no hernial sac. The symptoms vary according to the nature of the injury and also according to the particular structure that has passed through the rent in the muscle. Diaphragmatic respiration is much reduced or altogether aboHshed ; there is great pain, which is increased on deep respiration or coughing ; there is also considerable difficulty in breathing, and, before long, vomiting and various other symptoms may set in as the result of strangulation of the herniated parts. Symptoms of pleurisy develop after a short time. The percussion note is markedly altered according to the nature of the organ that has passed through the opening, and variations in the extent and situation of the note occur as more and more of the abdominal viscera enter the thorax. The heart may be displaced. A radiogram may be of much help in the diagnosis. The prognosis is not good, but a certain number of cases have been operated on with satisfactory results. TREATMENT.—Operative interference takes the form of a laparotomy through an incision parallel to and about an inch below the border of the ribs ; the diaphragm is exposed at once, the exact condition of affairs ascertained, the prolapsed organs restored to the abdomen, and the rent in the diaphragm stitched up. Although the hernia has been generally approached from the abdominal cavity, it might be easier to reach it through the pleural cavity after resecting two or more ribs or turning back a flap containing the soft parts and the under- lying ribs; the operation should be done under differential pressure (see Chap. XIX.). Diaphragmatic hernia.—True hernia, caused by protrusion of some of the abdominal contents through an abnormal opening in the diaphragm, is very rare. In the majority of cases, the condition has either been found post mortem or in the course of a laparotomy for acute intestinal obstruction. An attempt should be made to reduce the hernia after laparotomy and to suture the aperture in the diaphragm through which it has found its way.