AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER 50 according to the necessities of the case. The tube is removed when the amount of bile is getting less and the rest of the wound has healed. If gauze has been packed in it may be removed at the end of three days, after which the drainage tube alone will suffice. When the tube is left out the fistula is allowed to heal. Strict asepsis must be maintained not only at the operation, but throughout the after-treatment, as a sup- purating gall-bladder is a troublesome complication. Should the fistula not heal in two or three months the case becomes one of biliary fistula, the treatment of which is discussed on p. 58. Cholecystectomy.—Excision of the gall-bladder, together with the stones contained in it, may be called for in some of these cases, but care must be taken to remove any obstruction in the common duct in the first instance, whether from gall-stones or adhesions. Any ad- hesions between the gall-bladder and the surrounding structures are divided and then the gall-bladder is separated from the liver ; this separation may be begun either at the neck or at the fundus. It will generally be best to commence at the fundus and proceed from before backwards, stripping the gall-bladder up with the finger or a blunt dissector ; but if there are many adhesions binding down the fundus, the cystic duct may be isolated first, clamped and divided between two pairs of forceps, and the gall-bladder then raised from the liver from behind forwards. In either method the cystic duct should be clamped in the first instance in order to prevent stones being pushed into it during the manipulations necessary to separate the gall-bladder from the liver. As much of the peritoneum as possible should be dissected off the sides of the gall-bladder and left behind in order that it may be laid down afterwards over the raw surface, so as to minimise the adhesion of the intestines or omentum to the under-surface of the liver. If this is done carefully it is often possible to cover all the raw area with peritoneum. The chief sources of bleeding are the raw surface of tlie liver and the cystic artery. The first is only a slight oozing, if the gall-bladder has been carefully separated from the liver. The cystic artery lies between the liver and the cystic duct, and it is usually possible to separate it from the duct and secure it separately before ligaturing the latter. If this can be done the ligature is less likely to slip. If the open end of the divided cystic duct is sufficiently large and the parts are accessible, it may be treated in the same way as the stump of an appendix (see Vol. IV. p. 417), or it may be covered by a flap of peritoneum from the neighbourhood ; in any case it is well to cauterise the cut end with undiluted carbolic acid. It is always well to insert a small drainage tube for two or three days in order to allow the escape of any bile which may come from the I'aw surface of the liver, and in case septic infection should occur. Choice of operation.—In the majority of cases the choice lies between