AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST 178 pain from a very early period, and it is generally this pain that leads the patient to examine the breast and discover the tumour. In a considerable number of cases, however, there is no pain at all, and the tumour is only discovered accidentally. In the early stages the patient remains in good health, but after the disease has lasted for some time there is definite weakness and loss of flesh, and a pale, earthy, cachetic look makes its appearance ; this does not, however, necessarily imply infection of internal organs and may disappear after a complete operation. As a rule the cancer remains limited to the breast first involved, but a cancerous tumour may form in the opposite breast in a certain number of cases. It is probable that in such instances the cancer-cells have been carried across the middle line in the lymphatic vessels and that the tumour in the second breast is secondary to the original one and not an independent development. In such cases, the primary tumour is usually situated on the sternal side of the nipple. Sometimes the lymphatic vessels may carry the disease to the glands in the opposite axilla without the second breast becoming infected. TREATMENT.—Carcinoma of the breast is a form of malignant disease in which the results of treatment are on the whole extremely satisfactory, more than half the unselected cases operated on by the methods described below remaining free from recurrence—at any rate, for several years. For this reason all suitable cases should be operated on as early and completely as possible, and it is also important that no swelling in the breast should be treated by palliative measures when there is the slightest doubt as to its innocence. The cases unsuitable for complete extirpation are those in which there is extensive infection of the glands above the clavicle, or disease in internal organs, bad cases of cancer ' en cuirasse,' and cases in which the tumour has become adherent to the chest wall. In the absence of these local conditions, we advise extirpation provided that the general state of the patient permits it, even though the local disease be very extensive, and in a certain number of cases so treated, a long period has elapsed without recurrence, although the condition was apparently very unfavourable. Age does not form an important bar to the operation ; we have operated on patients up to eighty years of age, who have done extremely well. Extreme feebleness or very advanced age, especially if the growth is a typical atrophic cancer, would however cause the surgeon to hesitate before operating. It is a very debatable point whether coexisting disease in both mammae contra-indicates operation. If it is very extensive on both sides, it is of course useless to expect a radical cure ; but if the disease in the second breast is clearly secondary to that in the first, and is not far advanced, we should advise removal of both breasts. It would, however, be hardly possible to subject the patient to two operations of this magnitude on the same day; but the second operation—which should be on the less widely