GALL-STONES 37 strictured at its neck and may be dilated witli pus without giving rise to any marked symptoms. Symptoms of stones in the gall-hladdei'.—The mere presence of stones in the galLbladder does not necessarily give rise to noticeable symptoms. In other cases they may interfere with the outflow of bile from the gall- bladder and give rise to hydrops or empyema of the gall-bladder or they may cause cholecystitis (see p. 31). Symptoms of stones passing along the bile-passages.—The characteristic symptoms to which the passage of gall-stones along the bile-ducts gives rise are grouped under the term ' hepatic colic.' The chief symptom is pain, which may vary from slight vague discomfort, usually ascribed to dyspepsia, to excruciating colicky pain requiring morphine for its relief. The pain usually comes on suddenly after a meal or after some exertion and is paroxysmal in nature, but in the intermissions of the severe pain a dull aching remains. The pain is usually referred to the right hypochon- drium, but often shoots up into the right shoulder, and in bad cases is referred to the whole of the right half of the abdomen. Vomiting frequently occurs. There may be no jaundice unless the stone has passed into the common duct, in which case jaimdice generally appears after a few hours. Symptoms of stones impacted in the bile-ducts.—When the stone lies in the cystic duct, jaundice is exceptional ; the only constant symptoms are dilatation of the gall-bladder (which, however, cannot always be felt), uneasiness referred to the right hypochondrium, and dyspepsia. If, however, cholecystitis is present, as is frequently the case, there may be pain and tenderness, accompanied by fever and the presence of a definite tumour in the gall-bladder region. Jaundice may also occur under these conditions owing to the spread of the inflammation from the cystic to the common duct. When the stone lies in the common duct, the pain and tenderness are more marked and there is always jaundice, which is often profound, but which varies in intensity from time to time and only passes off completely when the stone escapes from the duct. There is usually anorexia, ac- companied by constipation, and vomiting may occur at first. If the impaction lasts for any length of time, there will be marked cachexia and choljemia. Even a large stone impacted in the common duct, however, may not always give rise to severe symptoms ; there may be only a little occasional colic and some slight jaundice, as the duct may dilate rapidly and the bile may be able to pass by the obstruction in considerable quantities. Symptoms accompanying complications.—The chief-complications of gall-stones are cholecystitis, cholangitis, the formation of adhesions in the neighbourhood of the gall-bladder or bile-ducts, and the occurrence of intestinal obstruction either from the presence of these adhesions or from the impaction of a gall-stone in the bowel. Cholecystitis and cholangitis