TUBERCULOUS EPIDIDYMITIS AND ORCHITIS the corpus Highmoriani ; isolated nodules may also be present at a later period. The disease is generally unilateral at first. As a rule, however, the other side is ultimately attacked, but usually only after an interval of some months and often of some years. The disease in the second testicle is often more acute than in the first, and therefore it is most important to try to save the body of the testicle first affected, because very serious psychical results may follow the loss of both testicles. From the point of view of treatment the cases may be divided into three groups : acute tuberculosis of the testicle and epididymis ; the ordinary sub-acute or chronic tuberculous epididymitis ; and tuberculous epididymitis accompanied by suppuration or sinus formation. The choice of the method of treatment will also depend on whether the disease is unilateral or bilateral. In very acute cases the disease begins without any apparent cause, or it may follow a gonococcal or other form of epididymitis. In the latter cases, the pain and swelling increase, instead of subsiding as in an uncomplicated gonococcal infection, abscess occurs rapidly—often within six weeks—and the vesiculse seminales and cord soon become enlarged. Occasionally, the body of the testis alone is affected primarily, the epididymis being free ; the pain is then very acute. The ordinaiy sub-acute or cJironic tiibercitlous epididymitis varies much in the rapidity of its course and the severity of the symptoms. There is usually some pain at the commencement of the disease, but it is seldom severe and is generally intermittent and of a dragging character, the chief complaint being of a feeling of weight and fullness in the testis. The gland is tender on pressure and the vas is generally, although not invariably, thickened. The enlargement of the epididymis generally reaches its full extent in a few weeks, and then remains stationary for a considerable period unless an abscess forms. The swollen epididyniis forms a characteristic horseshoe-shaped enlargement, partially embracing the testicle, and is largest at the globus major. Abscess formation is common, and its occurrence is marked by an increase in the subjective symptoms, especially the pain ; eventually, sinuses form, leading clown to the epididymis. TREATMBNT.--(a) Of acute tuberculosis.—The only treatment that offers any prospect of success is immediate castration. Unless, however, this is done quite early, the disease is almost certain to spread to the rest of the genito-urinary system, and in performing the operation it is most important to divide the vas deferens as high up as possible (see p. 301). (b) Of sub-acute and chronic tuberculosis.—The treatment of these cases, like that of most other tuberculous lesions, may be con- sidered under the headings of non-operative and operative measures. A considerable number of cases of tuberculous epididymitis become