GALL-STONES 45 the hepatic duct. When, however, there are numerous adhesions they may obscure tlie position of tlie duct ; the best plan then is to hook the forefinger into the foramen of Winslow, as the common duct Hes in its anterior wall. Finally, the pylorus, the duodenum, and the pancreas should all be examined to see whether there are adhesions between them and the bile-duc<s or whether chronic pancreatitis is present. When the gall-bladder is adherent to the abdominal wall the incision'through the peritoneum will run on the inner side of the adherent organ, and the condition of the ducts is then ascertained by palpation. If a careful examination shows the presence of a stone in the common duct this is removed first (see p. 52) and the gall-blad- der attended to afterwards. Should none be found, the peri- toneum is accurately sutured so as to prevent the possibility of infection, and the gall-blad- der is then laid open if neces- sary, after withdrawing the bulk of its contents with a small trochar and canula, and any stones in its interior arc removed {vide infra). Finally, the adherent gall-bladder is drained as in cholecystostomy (see p. 47). When there is hydrops or empyema of the gall- bladder the condition points to complete occlusion of the cystic duct, and the only cer- tain method of cure is removal of the gall-bladder, as drainage alone may give rise to a permanent fistula. In some cases a stone may be found blocking the duct and should be removed through an incision in the fundus, the gall-bladder being drained so as to allow the fistula to close spontaneously. In many cases, however, it does not heal because stricture of the duct may follow impaction of a stone in it even after the latter has been removed. Hence cholecystectomy (see p. 50) is the best operation in these cases if it can be performed. When there are stones in the gall-bladder but none in the ducts. There are four methods by which the condition of affairs may be dealt with—namely : cholecystotomy, cholecystostomy, chole- cystectomy, and cholecystenterostomy.