591 CYSTS OF THE KIDNEY Embryoma and Hypernephroma are tumours which, apparently, arise in connection witli embryonic rests—the former from germinal epithelium, and the latter from rests of the cortical portion of the adrenal glands. They are not uncommon, occur towards the upper pole of the kidney, and are indistinguishable from other malignant tumours. They form independent tumours in the kidney which push aside the renal substance and often attain a large size in a short time. After a time they penetrate into the renal pelvis, and then give rise to hematuria and anaemia. In children they may attain a large size, and may have reached an inoperable condition before they attract notice. The only treatment is nephrectomy. NEW GROWTHS OF THE RENAL PELVIS. Papilloma of the renal i)elvis is sometimes found on incising the kidney for persistent htemorrhage. The tumour may be a simple papilloma, or it may be developed on a malignant base. Even if it is simple, recurrence is apt to occur, and papillomatous masses may spring up along the ureter or in the bladder. If there is any suspicion of malignant disease, the proper treatment is either to excise the base of the tumour freely—if there is sufficient room to do so—suturing the renal pelvis subsequently, or, if this is impossible, to perform nephrectomy. If, however, the growth is obviously benign, it may suffice in the hrst in- stance to remove the tumour freely without taking away the surrounding tissues ; should the symptoms recur, nephrectomy will be called for. It is fairly common for malignant tumours to begin in the renal pelvis, and the treatment is similar to that described above for malignant disease of the kidney itself. CYSTS OF THE KIDNEY. The principal cysts found in the kichiey are simple serous cysts, hydatid cysts, cystic degeneration of the kidney, and polycystic disease. Dermoids have been met with, but are extremely rare. SEROUS CYSTS. This condition is not a localised dilatation of one of the calyces of the kidney, such as is the case in hydronephrosis, but is an independent cyst in the renal substance originating as a retention cyst in a tubule or in the Malpighian capsules. The cysts are usually single, may reach a large size, and may be situated anywhere in the organ ; their contents vary much in character, the fluid being, however, generally clear and straw-coloured, and containing a little albumen and salts with no urea,