445 ACUTE CYSTITIS muttering delirium, and the case ultimately terminates in suppression of urine, coma, and death. The prognosis depends largely upon the cause. When the disease is secondary to some obstruction to the outflow of urine, it usually subsides readily when the obstruction is removed, provided that the mischief has not lasted long enough to cause serious changes in the kidney. Cystitis occurring in connection with puerperal or typhoid fever is however a very grave disease. Various complications may arise during the progress of the case. Amongst the most common is ulceration of the mucous membrane, which may be due to direct injury to the bladder wall from the use of instruments, but most commonly to sloughing of the mucous membrane from the severity of the inflammation, as in typhoid or puerperal fever. The ulcers rarely go on to actual perforation of the bladder wall, but they may lead to considerable peri-vesical inflammation indicated by pyrexia, often with rigors, and a gradually increasing area of dullness above the pubes in which suppuration ultimately takes place. When gangrene of the mucous membrane occurs, the case generally ends fatally. x\nother serious compHcation that is met with more often in the chronic forms of the disease, is ascending pyelonephritis from direct extension of the inflammatory mischief to the ureters and the pelves of the kidneys ; when this condition becomes established, the outlook is unfavourable, as it is very rebellious to treatment. TREATMENT.—When the affection is secondary, the removal of the cause is of the first importance. When, however, there is no definite primary cause the treatment must be directed to the relief of the inflammation itself. Prophylaxis.—The disease is frequently set up by the introduction of septic material into the bladder through the urethra, and therefore any case requiring instruments, either for examination or treatment, must be handled with great care. These precautions are referred to on p. 374. When acute cystitis is established.—The objects of the treatment are to give rest to the bladder, to render the urine bland and unirritating, and to make the bladder and its contents as unfavourable a soil for the growth of bacteria as possible. In all except the gravest forms of acute cystitis the treatment is mainly medicinal and general. In order to give rest to the Madder, the patient should be kept in bed with the pelvis raised and the knees drawn up so as to relax the abdominal muscles and diminish the pressure on the bladder. Raising the pelvis causes the intestines to gravitate upwards, and so further relieves pressure. The bowels must be freely opened so as to diminish congestion, and the patient will experience great relief from hot applications, the best of which are hip-baths, as hot as can be borne, several times a day ; immediately after the bath the patient should be put back to bed between