OPERATION FOR PULMONARY EMBOLISM 255 of the third and the upper border of the sixth rib, together with the fourth and fifth costal cartilages on the left side, are carefully removed and the pericardium exposed. The flap is then replaced and sutured in position. TRENDELENBURG'S OPERATION FOR EMBOLISM OF THE PULMONARY ARTERIES. Embolism of the pulmonary arteries may arise from various causes, but, from the nature and suddenness of the affection, operation for the removal of the embolus will only be possible in very few cases. When, however, the signs and symptoms last for a short time—say, half an liour —and the patient is under conditions suitable for an operation, an attempt may be made to remove the embolus from the pulmonary artery. Lip to the present time, the operation has been done only a few times, and in no case has a permanently successful result been obtained. One patient, however, lived five and a quarter days, but succumbed to purulent pleurisy. The orifice of the pulmonary artery is situated behind the sternal end of the left third costal cartilage, and the artery bifurcates at the upper margin of the second left costal cartilage. The artery and the aorta are enclosed by the pericardium, and the visceral layer of that sac envelops the two vessels. Behind them is a space, the sinus pericardii, formed by the pericardium passing from the vessels to the auricles. The anterior margins of the left lung and the pleura overlap the artery, and the left phrenic nerve passes in front of the pericardium as it surrounds the vessel. Behind it is the origin of the aorta, and the left auricle ; to its right is the ascending aorta. The sinus pericardii in an adult will admit the finger, and this space makes it possible to penetrate on tlie left side close to the pulmonary artery and to come out on the right side again near the aorta (Garre and Quincke) Trendelenburg's operation is performed under differential pressure in the following manner: A transverse incision on the left side, four and a half to five inches long, is carried outwards from the sternum along the second rib, and a vertical one along the inner ends of the costal cartilages of the first, second, and third ribs. The flaps, containing all the tissues down to the second rib, are dissected up, and that cartilage and rib are resected for the full length of the transverse incision. If necessary, a shorter piece of the third rib may also be removed. The pleura is now opened for the whole length of the incision and kept widely open by retractors. The lung is allowed to collapse to a certain extent, and the pericardium, which now becomes visible, is lifted up by two pairs of forceps and incised vertically, care being taken not to damage the phrenic nerve. The incision in the pericardium is held open with forceps, and a special hook-shaped probe can be introduced and passed