529 INJURIES OF THE KIDNEY 6. Laceration of the pelvis or the ureter alone. The syinpto>ns vary according to the nature and degree of the injury ; unless this be limited to the peri-nephric tissues, various symptoms common to abdominal injuries in general will be present, and also others special to the injury of the kidney. The symptoms common to abdominal injuries are mainly those of collapse, varying according to the extent of the injury, but generally profound ; its severity is often added to by the free haemorrhage. Vomiting often occurs, and in bad cases may be almost uncontrollable ; there is pain localised in the renal region or diffused over the abdomen. The special symptoms are due to the escape of blood along the ureter, or of blood and urine into the tissues around the kidney or into the peritoneal cavity ; the bleeding may be profuse, and there may be all the signs of internal haemorrhage. The amount and situation of the bleeding are important indications of the nature and degree of the injury. When the kidney itself has escaped serious bruising there will be tenderness in the loin, without either swelling or ha;maturia. In all other cases haematuria is present, and in addition there will be a swelling in the loin if there is extensive peri-nephric bleeding, or increasing dullness in the peritoneal cavity if the peritoneum is also torn. H;ematuria without a lumbar swelling or signs of fluid in the peritoneum indicates that the capsule of the kidney has not been ruptured, and that the injury is limited to the substance of the organ itself ; this is a comparatively slight form of injury, in which the amount and duration of the ha;maturia vary considerably. In the less severe cases the urine— which at first appears to consist of almost pure blood—becomes clear in the course of two or three days ; the condition of the patient at the same time steadily improves, and he may be well in a week or ten days. There may, however, be profuse and persistent ha;matuiia, and this is generally indicative of rupture of some considerable vessel ; indeed, the bleeding may be so free that immediate operation is called for. In these cases the blood may coagulate in the bladder and retention of urine may occur, or it may clot in the ureter, when the patient will have attacks of renal colic and pass blood-casts of the ureter ; during these attacks the urine may be quite clear for a few hours at a time. Frequency of micturition is generally associated with the haematuria. In the course of ten days or so, the urine may be free from visible blood although it generally remains albuminous for a time. Nephritis may, however, occur, and there may be suppuration in the substance of the kidney or in its pelvis, the organisms gaining access from the blood- stream, the large bowel, or the bladder. In other cases, suppression of urine may occur—due either to injury of both kidneys or to injury of one alone ; in the latter case, the suppression is reflex and is most likely to occur if the other kidney is diseased. When the capsule of the kidney is ruptured, the shock is usually very V. MM