ORGANIC STRICTURE 393 touching the defect with a hot wire or a cautery point, or a second plastic operation may be needed, in which case the edges should be pared and brought together by sutures. When the fistula is situated in the perineum and is connected with a stricture in front of the bulb, there is no chance of healing until the stricture has been cured. When it follows a peri-urethral abscess, dilatation of the stricture will often suffice, and therefore the treatment should be directed first to this point. As the stricture becomes fully dilated, less and less urine passes through the fistula until finally it heals. Sometimes, however, dilatation may fail even though carried to its full extent, as the tissues may be very rigid or the direction of the fistulous opening may be such that the urine continues to escape easily through it. Here the best plan is to perform a Syme's urethrotomy, dividing the stricture completely, and enlarging and scraping the fistula. The fistulse will generally be got to heal by one of these means, except when they have followed extensive sloughing due to extravasation of urine. Here some form of plastic operation on lines similar to those for hypospadias (see Chap. XXXII.) may be called for, and in addition it will generally be necessary to drain the bladder so as to prevent urine passing over the wound. Under these circumstances supra-pubic drainage (see p. 473) should be established and the perineal condition treated by an external urethrotomy, dividing the stricture freely, paring raw surfaces or turning in flaps according to the circumstances of the case ; if a catheter were simply tied in, urine would almost certainly escape beside it and lead to failure of the operation. Cases in which there is a communication betu'een the rectum and the urethra, with or without a perineal opening, are very difficult to treat. As a iTile the communication with the rectum is just above the sphincter, and liquid faeces find their way into the urethra, while urine escapes into the rectum ; if there is a perineal opening, both urine and faeces may come through it. The wall of the fistula soon becomes lined with epithelium and there is no possibility of spontaneous healing, so that a comparatively elaborate operation, separating the urethra from the rectum and then suturing each canal separately after paring the edges of the opening into it, must be undertaken for its cure. This is best done through a crescentic incision in front of the anus which is deepened so as to reach tlie interval between the urethra and the rectum, the former structure being defined by a sound passed into the bladder. The rectum should be pulled well backwards. The fistulous tract must be divided as it is defined, leaving as much of the mucous membrane as possible on the urethral side, as the latter is most likely to be narrowed by a plastic operation, whereas shght narrowing of the rectum is not of much im- portance. The opening into the rectum is inverted and closed by sutures inserted on Lembert's plan, and that in the urethra is similarly treated. The greatest care must be taken to prevent urine passing into the wound.