582 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER above the tumour and implanting it into the bladder higher up or into the bowel must be considered ; if a stone is impacted in the ureter, it must be removed (see p. 571). In a certain number of cases, however, there is nothing wrong in the lower urinary tract, and the cause is in or close to the kidney. Under these circumstances, the surgeon has to make up his mind whether he will simply leave the case alone (possibly tapping the cyst from time to time) until it causes unbearable discomfort, or whether he will remove the kidney entirely, or endeavour by some form of plastic operation either to restore the continuity of the urinary canal or divert the urine into the bowel. In arriving at a decision upon this point, it is often of the first importance to ascertain—by repeated attempts, if necessary—whether the obstruction is valvular or complete, and also where it is situated. It is also of importance to ascertain the functional value of the other kidney (see Chap. L.) ; occasionalh', a hydronephrotic kidney has no fellow. Catheterisation with a ureteral catheter opaque to the X-rays, and the injec- tion of coUargol (see p. 513), may throw much valuable light upon these points. If the obstruction is valvular and at or close to the junc- tion of the ureter with the renal pelvis, some form of plastic operation should be undertaken as soon as possible, while the distension of the pelvis is still slight and the renal tissue healthy. If the block is complete and situated fairly low down the ureter, excision of the stricture and lateral anastomosis of the two ends of the ureter should be considered, and also the question of implanting the upper end of the ureter into the bowel. When the hydronephrosis is large and causes much discomfort, or when the cause is irremovable and the functional activity of the other kidney is good, the best plan will be to remove the sac. It would only be advisable to do nothing—beyond possibly an occasional tapping— when the condition is known to have lasted a long time or to have reached a large size, and the patient is very averse to operation, or the kidney on the opposite side is defective. The operation of tapping is described in connection with the diagnosis of the affection. Plastic operations upon the pelvis of the kidney.—The kidney should be exposed by an incision similar to that for nephro-lithotomy (see A B Fig. 149.—^Treatment of a Stricture of THE Ureter just below the Renal Pelvis. The stricture is completely excised by two oblique incisions, as shown in A, and re-attached to the pelvis of the kidney so that there is a suitable opening, as seen in B. This is better than attempting a plastic operation for in- creasing the lumen of the ureter.