583 PERSISTENT HYDRONEPHROSIS p. 565), and brought out on to the loin in the usual manner, so that it can be examined both by sight and by touch. The subsequent procedure will vary according to the condition of affairs that is found. When an abnovniality is present in the tipper part of the ureter .or its attachment to the pelvis, it may be possible to produce a good result by a plastic operation, similar to that described below for intermittent hydronephrosis. If an annular stricture is found in the ureter below the pelvis, this may be treated by an operation similar to pyloroplasty (see Vol. IV. p. 288) ; this operation, however, is not always successful, and it may be better either to resect the affected portion of the ureter and perform a ureteral anastomosis (see p. 538) or to resect the stricture and attach the lower part of the ureter to the renal pelvis, according Fig. 150.—Method of Treating a Valvular connection' between the Ureter AND the Renal Pelvis. This is the operation described in the text, and is done through a separate incision in the renal pelvis, which is aftenvards closed by suture. By its means a valvular opening is converted into one situated at a losvcrlevel on the wall of the renal pelvis, and the valve-action is done away with. to the situation of the obstruction (see Fig. 149). In resecting the stricture, it is well to cut the ureter obliquelv or, if transversely, to slit it down for a centimetre or so, and round off its angles so as to make a large opening. The union is made by a double row of stitches, the mucous membrane of the pelvis and the ureter being united by fine catgut, with a row of Lembert's sutures outside. A drainage tube should be introduced down to the neighbourhood of the new union, but not actually reaching it, and kept in for some days so as to provide against leakage of urine. Either of these operations is preferable to nephrectomy or the establishment of a urinary fistula. When there is a valvular obstruction at iJie junction of the ureter iinth the pelvis, a useful method is to open the pelvis of the kidney, and after introducing a probe through the ureteral orifice, to divide the adjacent ureteral and pelvic wall in front of it for nearly an inch, taking care, however, not to go too low down, otherwise the cellular tissue outside will be opened up and there may be leakage of urine (see Fig. 150).