CICATRICIAL DEFORMITIES 79 set up whenever the nerve is touched. When the nerve is found, it is hooked up into the wound, and as long a portion as possible is removed. The wound is closed without a drainage tube, and the head is fixed in a moulded collar of gutta-percha. Resection of the cervical nerves.—In order to paralyse the deep rotators of the head the posterior branches of the first, second and third cervical nerves should be divided. For this purpose Keen advises the following operation :— A transverse incision is made about half an inch below the level of the lobule of the ear, commencing at the middle line posteriorly and extending forwards for about three inches. We prefer to raise a flap as shown in Fig. 20, ter is followed downwards vmtil its origin from the posterior division of the second cervical is reached. A portion of the posterior division of this nerve is then removed. The obliquus inferior muscle is next identified, and the sub-occipital nerve—which is seen immediately above the muscle—is followed back towards the spine. The nerve leaves the spinal canal between the occipital bone and the posterior arch of the atlas, and lies beneath the vertebral artery; it then enters the sub-occipital triangle, which is bounded by the obliquus superior and inferior and the rectus capitis posticus major. About an inch lower than the sub-occipital nerve, and beneath the complexus, the external branch of the posterior division of the third cervical nerve which supplies the splenius will be found. Portions of both these nerves are removed. as this gives more room. The trapezius muscle is divided transversely and turned up. The surgeon then looks for the great occipital nerve as it leaves the complexus and enters the trapezius; the nerve emerges from the former muscle about half an inch below the incision. The complexus is then divided transversely on a level with the nerve, and by careful dissection the lat- FiG. 20.—Incision for Resection of the Posterior BRANCHES OF THE CERVICAL Plexus. The thick line ab is Keen's incision ; abed shows the flap recommended in the text. CICATRICIAL DEFORMITIES. Severe deformity is frequently met with as the result of cicatricial contraction after extensive burns ; these cicatrices may draw down the