225 INFLAMMATION OF THE PLEURA and next day one side may be opened, the other side being dealt with later. Of an empyema that has ruptured into a bronchus.— In these cases it is probably best to wait and see if the cavity is effectually evacuated through the bronchial tubes or not. Should the evacuation not be satisfactory, the empyema must be opened from the outside and drained, but under these circumstances closure of the wound is often very long delayed, and sometimes a bronchial fistula remains. The patient is, however, saved from the dangers associated with the continuous discharge of pus through the bronchi, and usually only a small sinus is left. Of an empyema that has failed to heal.—The length of time that an empyema takes to close after incision and drainage varies greatly, the chief determining point being the expansion of the lung. When this is incomplete, a cavity is left which takes a long time to close, but closure eventually does occur in most cases, falling-in of the chest wall and displacement of the various intra-thoracic structures taking place as the result of the contraction of the granulation tissue lining the cavity. In some cases, however, the lung is so bound down that a large cavity or a long sinus remains, and the surgeon is confronted with a serious state of affairs. This condition is most likely to occur when the empyema had existed for some time before the pleura was incised and drained. Another cause of a sinus after an empyema is the presence of tuberculosis, which interferes with healing, especially if it is complicated with sepsis. Among the minor causes of failure are imperfect drainage, such as occurs when the opening is too high up in the chest. Again, if a portion of the rib has undergone necrosis, a discharging sinus will remain, but here the pleural cavity may close and the sinus may be merely an external one. Another cause of the persistence of the sinus^—and not a very infrequent one—is that the tube has been allowed to fall into the cavity and is retained there. A radiogram will generally reveal its whereabouts if this is the case. The chief factors in the non-closure of an empyema are therefore imperfect expansion of the lung, imperfect drainage, or a tuberculous condition of the pleura. When an empyema has lasted for a long time, amyloid degeneration of the viscera may take place as the result of the continued septic absorption, and the patients gradually go downhill and ultimately die from exhaustion ; hence, when it is evident that closure of the cavity is not likely to occur, it is highly important to take steps to promote it. In any case of empyema which has lasted for more than six or eight weeks and in which a cavity remains, the surgeon should first make sure that the delay is not due to imperfect drainage. If the opening has been originally made in the mid-axillary line, and if it is found that a probe V- Q