5o8 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER along the upper surface of the shaft. The tunnel opens at the ocular end in a tube provided with a small hole, through which the catheter passes, and there is a stopcock to permit the escape of fluid when the catheter is not in position. At the distal end of the cystoscope, the tunnel opens just short of the prism window, and there is a small elevator, raised by a screw, at the ocular end. A double or a single tunnel may be provided. The double tunnel makes a larger instrument, which is rather more difficult to pass. The patient is prepared as for simple cystoscopy. The catheterising cystoscope is introduced, and the telescope placed in position. The ureteric catheter, carefully rendered aseptic, is placed on a sterilised towel. It is lubricated with glycerine, and passed along the tunnel of the cystoscope. It is necessary that the telescope should be in place Fig. 135.—^Thomson Walker's Urethral Catheterising Cystoscope. The lower figure is the two-way irrigating tube. when the catheter is passed through the cystoscope, as it forms the floor of the tunnel. The window of the cystoscope is now turned downwards and the inter-ureteric bar comes into view. Following this outwards, by turning the cystoscope on its axis, the opening of the ureter comes into view. The ocular end of the cystoscope is now raised and drawn towards the side opposite to the ureter which is to be catheterised. By this manoeuvre, the window of the instrument approaches close to the ureteric orifice. The catheter is now pushed in until its point is well in view of the window. Its axis is still, however; too near that of the shaft of the cysto- scope to permit of its engaging in the ureteric orifice. A touch of the screw at the base of the cystoscope raises the little elevator at the distal end of the tunnel, and the point of the catheter rises away from the cystoscope and is easily slipped into the ureteric orifice. Care should be taken not to raise the elevator too far. as the catheter does nqt run so easily when it is erect. The use of the elevator is reserved for the final stage, the preliminary manoeuvring being done with the whole cystoscope. When the point of the catheter has entered the ureteric orifice, it is