AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX 220 suppuration take place, for example after puncture of purulent lung-cavities or rupture of a sub-diaphragmatic abscess through the pleura. Generally, however; the lung becomes adherent to the parietal pleura over con- siderable areas, and in the miajority of cases the pus accumulates over the lower lobe of the lung, and the surfaces of the pleura become adherent above the purulent collection, so that the upper part of the pleural cavity remains healthy and unadherent, and in that situation the lung expands satisfactorily. Most empyemata are circumscribed, but frequently the whole of the lower part of the thorax is converted into a suppurating cavity. In other cases the collection may be much smaller in extent, and may take the form of a typical localised empyema. According to Godlee, there are three forms of localised empyema: (i) that in which the pus is contained in a cavity between the outer surface of the lung and the costal pleura ; (2) that in which the pus lies between the diaphragm and the base of the lung; and (3) that in which it is situated in the fissure between two contiguous lobes, or between the lung and the mediastinum. The exact locality of the pus is determined partly by physical signs and partly by puncturing with an exploring-needle, and in some cases it may be a matter of chance whether the pus is hit or not ; it is especially difficult to localise the abscess when it lies between the lung and the mediastinum. A radiogram may be of considerable assistance. TREATMENT.—There is no question that in acute cases the sooner the fluid is evacuated the better, and this must be done by free incision and not by paracentesis ; the case in fact should be looked upon as an abscess, and treated accordingly. Of non-localised empyema.—In operating upon an empyema, the first question is as to the anaesthetic. Chloroform should be given in preference to ether, as the latter may cause violent coughing, and great accumulation of mucus in the tubes which diminishes the already in- sufficient breathing capacity. The pressure s5Tnptoms may be so severe that it is inadvisable to administer a general anaesthetic at all, and under these circumstances local anaesthesia by Schleich's infiltration method (see Vol I. p. 485) should be employed, A simpler solution of the difficulty in bad cases, however, is to have recourse to simple paracentesis thoracis first, in order to relieve the severe pressure symptoms, and then to incise and drain the pleural cavity a day or two later when the patient has recovered from the embarrassment to the breathing. The position of the patient is determined to a large extent by the spot at which the incision is to be made, which must be where the exploring- needle showed the pus to be situated. When the incision is to be in the sixth or seventh space in the mid-axillary line—which is the point chosen when there is a large collection in the lower part of the chest—the patient should lie flat upon the table or bed, being drawn well to the edge ; the surgeon can then work sitting down and facing that side of the thorax.