468 AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER for a few days. The patient should be kept in bed, and any cj^stitis present should receive treatment (see p. 445) ; although the cystitis may not be cured, it may be much improved. Just before the operation, the perineum and pubes, and especially the glans and the meatus, should be disinfected; the instruments and the operator's hands should also be carefully disinfected. One great danger of litholopaxy is the introduction of septic material into the bladder, and every precaution must therefore be taken, notwithstanding the fact that there is to be no cutting operation. The patient, who should have had the bowels thoroughly cleared out overnight, is placed upon the table with the pelvis raised upon a suitable sand-bag, and the legs encased in long warm stockings and hanging over the end of the table ; the external genitals should be surrounded with aseptic towels. An excellent plan is to cut a small hole in the centre of a sterilised towel and bring the penis out through this ; there is then less likelihood of the towel becoming dis- placed during the manipulations. The muscular relaxation must be thorough, at any rate in the early stages, and for this reason spinal anaesthesia is valuable in these cases. The urine is first drawn off. and the bladder washed out with warm boric lotion until the fluid returns perfectly clear, and then six ounces of the lotion are injected and left in the bladder. The urethra should next be dilated with Lister's bougies (see p. 372) up to a No. 16 or 18 English in order to facilitate the passage of the lithotrite, and the external meatus must be incised down- wards, if necessary, so as to allow the lithotrite to pass easily. The object of this preliminary dilatation is to avoid the risk of damage to the urethra in the neighbourhood of the triangular ligament, especially when the evacuating catheters are introduced. The beak of the lithotrite (which is generally No. 16 to 18 English size) is now lubricated and introduced into the urethra, the shaft of the instrument being held almost horizontal and parallel to Poupart's ligament, and the penis is drawn up over it until the beak has reached the bulbous portion and cannot be pushed farther down. The shaft of the instrument is now gradually rotated into the middle line, keeping the shaft horizontal and the urethra fully on the stretch, and when it reaches this position the handle is gently raised, so that the instrument becomes vertical and slides on into the bladder by its own weight. No force whatever should be used ; any difficulty will generally be due to the beak not having been pushed far enough down into the bulb. As soon as the point passes the triangular Hgament there is no further difficulty, and, as it enters the bladder, the instrument suddenly slides in easily and can be rotated freely. The stone is now felt for at the base of the bladder with the jaws of the instrument closed. The movements of the lithotrite must be extremely gentle so as not to displace the stone, and the beak should not be allowed to jar against the sensitive vesical neck. When the stone