SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE KIDNEY 547 gently washing away the pus with warm saline solution, and retracting the parts in a good light. Should a communication be found with the kidney or its pelvis, appropriate treatment must be adopted. If no communication is found, large drainage tubes are introduced in any direction in which there is a prolongation of the cavity ; usuaUy two or three large tubes (No. 24) will be required at first. No sutures should be inserted in the loin, but the tubes should be fastened to the skin with silkworm-gut stitches. The subsequent treatment is that of an ordinary abscess ; the drainage tubes should not be removed too soon, otherwise fistulous openings are likely to occur from imperfect drainage. The lumbar muscles contract, and thus close the skin-wound rapidly, but this must be prevented until the abscess cavity has become obliterated. Should there be any extensive prolongation of the abscess cavity, counter-openings may be required ; in the first instance, it is well to introduce a long drainage tube from the loin incision to the counter opening—this tube being subsequently cut in half and shortened from each end. The wound is watched to see whether urine comes through ; should it do so, and the case be one in which no stone has been found in the kidney, some considerable time should be allowed to elapse under proper drainage before anything further is done, in the hope that, as the cavity contracts, the opening in the pelvis of the kidney will close. The patient must be kept in bed until the wound has healed ; this occurs fairly quickly as a rule. It may occasionally happen that the incision fails to reveal pus ; even if this is the case, operation will do good, as it diminishes congestion, and, should pus subsequently form, it will find its way through the opening. A large drainage tube should be inserted into the perinephric tissues, and the lumbar wound may be sutured round it. SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE KIDNEY. Four chief conditions may be met with :— Suppurative pyelitis, without suppuration in the kidney substance. This condition often precedes the more extensive inflammatory affections of the organ, and seldom comes under treatment as a distinct affection. It may be primary, but much more frequently it is secondary to disease of the urinary organs lower down ; inflammation spreads from the bladder along the ureter and reaches the pelvis of the kidney, to which it remains limited for a time. Suppurative pyelonephritis is much more common in surgical practice. Here the suppuration in the pelvis of the kidney is combined with sup- puration in the renal tissue. Although this condition may be primary, it is more commonly secondary, and it is the aff ection which was formerly referred to as ' surgical kidney.' N N 2