OPERATIONS FOR PULMONARY EMPHYSEMA 247 introduced under a pressure of 4 mm. to 6 mm. of mercury, and on the first occasion from I litre to i litre is sufficient. The dyspncea, which at first arises, quickly passes away as the result of increase in the respiratory movements on the other side. Nitrogen is preferred to air or oxygen because it is not so quickly absorbed. After an interval of two days, a second injection of 300 c.cm. to 1000 c.cm. of nitrogen should be made, the interval varying with the rapidity of absorption and the capacity of the chest. Subsequent injections should be made at intervals, which can be gradually lengthened, and the treatment must be kept up for one to two years. The result, in suitable cases, is that the amount of sputum diminishes, the condition of the patient improves, and the tuberculous foci become encapsuled or destroyed ; when the injections are discontinued, the healthy parts of the lung again expand, and respiration is restored. The method is only applicable when the other lung is healthy or only slightly affected, and is contra-indicated when both sides are extensively diseased, when there are extensive pleural adhesions, or when there is serious tuberculous disease elsewhere. For the details of this method and of the apparatus employed, we must refer our readers to special works—such as the ' Surgery of the Lung,' by Garre and Quincke (Bale, Sons, & Daniclsson, London, 1912). PULMONARY EMPHYSEMA. Freund has pointed out that, apart from the alterations in the lung tissue which occur in pulmonary emphysema, a not very uncommon cause of the enlargement and barrel shape of the chest and the consequent impediment to respiration, is calcification and elongation of the costal cartilages—especially the first and second. He has therefore suggested that in cases in which the rigidity of the thorax is due to this condition, portions of several costal cartilages should be removed. The existence of these changes may be ascertained by radiograms or by thrusting a needle into the cartilage. Normal cartilage offers an elastic resistance to the needle, but when degenerative changes have occurred, it either becomes arrested by the calcareous material or slips readily in cavities in the cartilage due to the degenerative changes. The chest is no longer elastic on compression, and it is barrel-shaped. The improvement in the condition of a considerable number of the patients operated on has been remarkable. The operation is simple, and consists in taking out wedge-shaped pieces, about one inch in length, of the second, thii'd, fourth, and fifth costal cartilages, in practically the same manner as in resection of the ribs. The pleura is detached, but the whole of the perichondrium must be taken away, otherwise fresh bars of cartilage may form. By interposing a piece of muscle or fascia between the divided ends, the formation of a