AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX 202 chest is to place the patient in the horizontal position \vith the head dependent; if necessary, artificial respiration is carried out until the power of normal breathing returns. Brandy or ether may be injected subcutaneously, and friction appHed to the surface of the body. Stimulants should be given by the mouth when the patient can swallow, or injected subcutaneously when he cannot. WOUNDS OF THE THORAX. These are generally divided into penetrating and non-penetrating wounds, according as the pleural cavity is opened or not, and the gravity of the injury depends mainly on this point. NON-PENETRATING WOUNDS.—The only point of special importance in connection with non-penetrating wounds of the thoracic wall is the occurrence of haemorrhage, which may proceed from the intercostal or the internal mammary arteries. These vessels may also be wounded in the course of operations without penetration of the thoracic cavity, but in accidental wounds haemorrhage from them is practically always associated with penetration. Wounds of the internal mammary artery are very rare and are generally due to stabs or bayonet wounds. The bleeding is very free and may take place either externally or into the pleura, the pericardium, or the anterior mediastinum. The artery may be wounded in any part of its course and the diagnosis is easy when the bleeding occurs externally, but is difficult when the blood only escapes into the thoracic cavity; it must then be arrived at by the position of the wound, the increasing anaemia, the signs of loss of blood, and the indications of intra-thoracic pressiue. The artery arises from the subclavian at a point nearly opposite the vertebral artery, and passes forward to the anterior thoracic wall, behind which it runs almost vertically downwards about half an inch outside the border of the sternum and superficial to the parietal pleura and the thoracic fascia. At the level of the fifth intercostal space the artery divides into its musculo-phrenic and superior epigastric branches. Wounds of the intercostal artery are rarely met with, and are commonly the result of stabs and gunshot wounds. The bleeding may occur into the thorax or outwards through the wound, or in both directions, simul- taneously ; there is also extravasation into the cellular tissue of the thoracic wall. There are two intercostal arteries in each space from the level of the angle of the scapula forwards: the one, a small vessel running along the upper border of one rib, and the other, much larger and accompanied by the intercostal nerve, beneath the lower border of the rib above. Treatment.—A bleeding internal mammary artery must be secured as soon as possible ; unless this is done, the patient may die of haemorrhage.