77 SPASMODIC TORTICOLLIS of the muscles on both sides, and also of preventing contraction of the scar at the seat of the operation and consequent recurrence of the deformity ; this can usually be done by massage and manipulations. The massage should be applied to all the muscles of the neck. The manipulations should be gradual but forcible, the head being steadily brought into the over-corrected position and held there for a time. A good home-exercise consists in the patient swinging in an extension head-gear, the cord of which is not attached to the centre of the bar, but to the bar towards the contracted side. The head may be fixed at night in a Minerva collar of poroplastic material for some months. FUNCTIONAL TORTICOLLIS. After an acute attack has passed off, it sometimes happens that the wryneck remains, although there is no organic contraction of the affected muscles, and under an auccsthetic the spasm passes off and the head can be placed in a normal position. If the condition docs not improve under the administration of antispasmodics—such as bromide or valerian—and the employment of massage and the other methods useful in these neurotic cases, it may be advisable to administer an anaesthetic and apply a plaster of Paris casing, fixing the head and neck in the normal position. This casing must get a good purchase on the thorax and on the lower part of the head.. It should be worn for a month and massage of the affected muscles should be carried out when it is left off. SPASMODIC TORTICOLLIS. In this condition there are clonic spasms of the sterno-mastoid and other muscles of the neck—especially those in the sub-occipital triangle— the spasms occurring at varying intervals; when the affection has lasted for some time there may be permanent contracture of the muscle. The actual form and character of the movements vary. In some cases the spasm is regular and occurs comparatively slowly, and lasts for a long time ; in others there is a frequent and rapid twitching of the muscles. The spasms are not painful as a rule, but in the intervals between them there may be painful tonic contraction. In bad cases there may be constant spasm whenever the head is unsupported, but this often ceases when the patient lies with the head on a piUow, or sometimes when he stands with the head resting against a wall. The spasms are set up or increased by any sudden noise or mental trouble. TREATMENT.—This may be divided into medicinal and operative measures:— (a) Non-operative.—^When the condition is slight, palliative measures may be adopted. Any source of mental anxiety must be removed if