SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE KIDNEY 551 may precede the dilatation, and in this case the distension of the pelvis is due not so much to mechanical obstruction in the bladder or urethra as to blocking of the ureter by pus and clot or calcuh. The most frequent cause of pyonephrosis is renal calculus. The condition may also arise from the pressure of tumours on the ureter, from vesical affections, such as stone, papilloma and mahgnant thsease, or from urethral or prostatic obstructions. It is very common in tuberculous renal disease (see Chap. LI v.). The septic infection may be due to an ascending infection secondary to the dilatation, or it may be derived from the blood or the lymph stream. The kidney is frequently enlarged and lobulated owing to the distension of its calyces. The loculi communicate with one another and with the distended renal pelvis, whilst the renal cortex undergoes sclerosis and atrophy ; the septa between the various loculi may be dense and fibrous or may be destroyed. The interior of the renal pelvis is frequently lined with a phosphatic deposit, which may give rise to a diagnosis of stone when a radiogram is taken. The condition is often unilateral when it is due to renal calculus, but it may be bilateral when it is due to obstruction to the outflow of urine from the bladder. After a time, peri-nephritis occurs, and the kidney becomes bound down to the structures in its neighbourhood. A peri-nephric abscess may occur from the spread of infective organisms through the wall of the renal pelvis into the fatty capsule without any fistulous communication, or may arise from a direct communication between the pelvis of the kidney and the surrounding structures. When the affection is due to a calculus, the distension of the pelvis may be intermittent; when the distension is greatest there may be no pus in the urine, but this will be followed by profuse pyuria as the distension subsides. In addition to the symptoms of pyelitis there is a tumour in the loin, and frequently profuse intermittent pyuria; the tumour is nodular and may be elastic. The condition of the urine varies according as the communication between the kidney and the bladder is free or not. In most cases there is a certain amount of pus in the urine ; in some, the amount is large, in others the pyuria is of an intermittent type, and in them the cause is probably a stone acting as a ball-valve in the pelvis. The reaction of the urine is usually alkaline, and there is much mucus ; the urine may, however, be strongly acid and in that case the bacillus coli may be present in large numbers. There is often a history of previous attacks of renal colic. This condition cannot well be mistaken for hydronephrosis, in which there is no pyrexia or pyuria. It may, however, be difficult to distin- guish it from a peri-nephric abscess accompanied by pyelitis, but the most difficult point is to diagnose a calculous pyonephrosis from a tuber- culous kidney ; a radiogram may possibly clear up the matter, but