489 ANATOMY OF THE URETER over the pelvic brim, and the tliird is at its termination in the bladder wall. Relations oJ the ureter.—The abdominal portion lies on the psoas muscle and crosses the genito-crural nerve about half-way between the commencement of the ureter and the brim of the pelvis. Anteriorly, its upper part is in direct contact and intimately connected with the peritoneum. The spermatic or ovarian arteries pass between the lower part of the ureter and the peri- 0 toneum, and are closely con- nected with both. On the right side the upper part is covered by the third part of the duo- denum, while, lower down, the right colic and ileo-colic arteries, the terminal part of the ileum, and the vermiform appendix pass in front of it. On the left side the ureter is crossed an- teriorly by the left colic and sigmoid branches of the inferior mesenteric artery and by the jejunum, while the inner border of the colon, if distended, may overlap it. Lower down, the ureter is crossed by the com- mencement of the rectum. The pelvic relations are im- portant, owing to the depth at which the ureter is situated and the difficulty in getting at it. In the male, the hrst part of the ureter, after crossing the pelvic brim, passes downwards and backwards along the side Fig. 130.—The Surface-marking of the Abdominal PORTION OF THE Ureter. A, commencemeut of the ureter. B, ureter at the pelvic brim. C, line of abdo- minal portion of the ureter. D, bifurcation of the aorta, E, midpoint between the symphysis pubis and the anterioi superior iliac spine. The horizontal dotted line is the level of the tips of the twelfth ribs ; the vertical one is drawn upwards from the iunction of the inner with the middle third of Poupart's ligament. {Morris.) of the pelvis to a point about an inch in front of the spine of the ischium. It lies immediately in front of the internal ihac artery, and externally is in contact with the pelvic fascia covering the obturator internus; it crosses the obliterated hypogastric artery and the obturator vessels and nerve. Internally, it is covered by peritoneum which separates it from the sigmoid colon on the left side, and from the terminal portion of the ileum on the right. In the second part of its course in the pelvis, it runs forwards and inwards, beneath the peri- toneum upon the upper surface of the levator ani; it lies against the side