CONTUSIONS AND RUPTURES 337 the skin should be sutured separately, room being left for the introduction of a drainage tube, so as to allow any urine to escape. The catheter should be retained for twenty-four hours, after which time the patient is allowed to micturate naturally ; if the wound has been accurately sutured there is little risk of its being burst open during micturition. It is well to administer bromide of potassium (gr. xxv) and chloral (gr. x) every evening, three hours before bedtime, in order to prevent erections, which might interfere with union. The cicatrix is small if the urethra has been accurately sutured, and there is little tendency to subsequent stricture. It is well, however, to pass a bougie—at any rate for the first two years—at intervals, gradually increasing from three days up to three months or more, so as to make sure that no stricture occurs. If it does, the case should be treated as one of stricture of the urethra (see Chap. XXXVII.). CONTUSIONS AND RUPTURES. Contusions of the urethra most commonly follow falls astride of an object, such as a rail or a beam ; they may also be due to kicks or direct blows upon the perineum, and very often complicate fractures of the pelvis. More rarely they are the result of slight violence—for example, after erections in a patient suffering from chordee ; in the latter cases the injury occurs only in the penile portion, and is referred to in connection with gonorrhoea (see Chap. XXXV.) The injury to the urethra in these accidents usually occurs near the junction of the membranous with the bulbous portion. When the rupture complicates a fracture of the pelvis, the membranous or, more rarely, the prostatic urethra is lacerated. In falls astride, the injury is produced by the urethra being crushed against the edge of the pubic arch, in the majority of cases, the patient striking the obstacle somewhat sideways ; in others, however, the membranous urethra may be torn across without any actual pressure against the bone. The extent and nature of the injury vary in different cases. In some the spongy tissue outside the mucous and submucous coats is the chief structure damaged, and a large diffuse hsematoma may occur in this region. In the more severe injuries, however, the submucous tissue and the mucous membrane are torn. In the most severe forms the urethra is torn completely across, and this is most likety to happen when the injury occurs in the membranous portion. The chief dangers in these cases are retention and extravasation of urine. When the urethral mucous membrane is intact, the main symptoms are a hcematoma in the perineum, accompanied by a certain amount of pain. If the haematoma is large, its pressure upon the urethra may interfere with micturition. In the majority of cases, however, the mucous membrane is lacerated, and blood escapes from the meatus, varying in V. z