320 AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS swelling, and need not be followed up into the inguinal region. It is well, also, to excise an elliptical portion of the scrotum, so as not to leave a large pouch in the scrotum in which blood may accumulate. VARICOCELE. This is the name given to a varicose dilatation of the pampiniform plexus, which is a common affection about the age of puberty. It is probably predisposed to by the great length of, and slow circulation through, the spermatic vein, by the constriction exerted on the veins at the external abdominal ring, and by hereditary tendency. The fact that it is more common on the left side than on the right is supposed to be accounted for by the fact that the left spermatic vein lies behind the sigmoid flexure, and so has pressure exerted upon it when the loop of bowel is full of fsces, and also by the fact that the vein opens into the left renal vein at right angles instead of obliquely. Some patients have large varicoceles without any symptoms, whilst others suffer much from a slight degree of the affection, and it is probable that the neurotic element enters largelj^ into these cases. The complaint made is generally of aching pain in the back and groin, especially in the region of the genito-crural nerve, and the patient is often alarmed lest the generative function of the testis should be impaired. Real atrophy of the testis rarely occurs, however, as the result of a varicocele. Some discussion has arisen as to the effects of operation on the testicle, and there seems to be no doubt that in a considerable number of cases the testicle becomes somewhat indurated from the development of fibrous tissue in it, and grave doubt has been expressed as to the advisability of performing the operation as frequently as was done up till recently. The chief reason for performing the operation has been to allow the patient to obtain admission to various public services—especially those involving residence in hot climates—partly because the varicocele is apt to become very large and painful in a hot climate, and partly because a man who wishes to shirk his work can always say that he suffers pain from the varicocele. Lately, the objections to the operation have been recognised, and it is only now insisted on—as regards the public services— in really bad cases. Apart from the question of admission to the services, the operation should only be done in patients who are not markedly neurotic and who have large varicoceles which are causing pain or discomfort. In highly neurotic patients—especially in those whose mind is concentrated on their genital organs and who are very often masturbators—the' operation should not be done, as the mental relief is not so great as might be expected, and they often come complaining subsequently of neuralgia in the testicle and cord, and their last condition may be worse than their first.