384 AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA be fulfilled ; when it is impossible to get an instrument through the stricture, or when the latter cannot be dilated up sufficiently to admit Syme's instrument, Wheelhouse's operation is called for. It is evident, therefore, that the latter operation has only a limited range. Syme's perineal section.—^The stricture is first dilated up to the size of a No. 4 English by the intermittent method if time permits ; if the case is urgent, how- ever, the patient is anaesthetised and the stricture rapidly dilated with Lister's bougies until a Syme's staff (see Fig. 108) can be introduced. This staff consists of two portions : a terminal part about the calibre of a No. 4 English, and a shaft which has a No. 12 gauge; at the junction of these two parts there is a well- marked shoulder. On the convexity of the curve of the narrower portion there is a groove which is prolonged a short distance into the shaft. The staff is passed through the stricture until the shoulder hitches against the face of the stricture. The handle is then entrusted to an assistant, and the patient is brought down to the end of the table and placed in the lithotomy position. The assistant should hold the staff exactly vertical and pull the scrotum out of the way. The surgeon shaves and disinfects the perineum, and makes a median incision through the skin and fascia from the root of the scrotum to about an inch in front of the anus. After the superficial structures have been divided, a few touches of the knife expose the urethra, and then the groove in the narrow portion is felt for with the left forefinger, and 'the point of the knife is slipped over the nail of the finger until it perforates the urethra and engages in the groove. The knife is now made to cut upwards, dividing the stricture as it goes, and is carried to the full extent of the groove—that is to say, past the shoulder of the staff. If care is taken to enter the urethra behind the stricture, the entire strictured area must be divided if the knife is made to travel forwards as far as the groove extends, because the shoulder of the staff lies upon the face of the stricture. The handle of the staff may now be depressed and the point of the instrument pushed on into the bladder. If the stricture has been com- pletely divided, there will be no difficulty in doing this ; if there is, some fibres of the stricture have escaped and must be divided. All bleeding is arrested, the perineal wound is swabbed out with chloride of zinc Fig. 108.—Syme's Staff for External Urethrotomy.