AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER 482 the wall of the bladder around the growth ; occasionally, however, the tumour is small and superficial, and the prospects of recovery are better. In any case, it is advisable to perform a supra-pubic cystotomy when a malignant tumour has been diagnosed ; if it is found impossible to remove it with any chance of success, supra-pubic drainage will afford relief to the patient's sufferings. The condition of a patient left to die of this affection is miserable in the extreme. When supra-pubic cystotomy is performed as a palliative measure, the operation is done as described on p. 473. An india-rubber tube is tied in until the rest of the wound has healed, when a suitable gum-elastic or silver tube attached to tubing which passes into a portable urinal is substituted for it, and the patient can get about in comparative comfort and keep himself dry. As a rule, the bladder should be washed out by the patient himself daily with a little warm boric lotion, and both the tube in the bladder and that to the urinal should be in duplicate and should be boiled each time before it is used. When the operation is done as part of a radical operation, the wider transverse incision into the bladder recommended on p. 479 will probably be required ; all three incisions—namely, those through the skin, the abdominal wall, and the bladder—may be transverse, and excellent access is thus obtained. Radical extirpation of malignant tumours of the bladder may involve removal of the whole or part of the organ. The excision of the actual tumour does not involve any severe operative difficulties, provided that the growth is still limited to the bladder ; the great problem which presents itself is how to deal with the ureters. I. When the growth is limited to the anterior wall or fundus of the bladder, there is no difficulty as regards the ureters, inasmuch as they are not involved, and the bladder can be readily repaired, and, although its capacity is diminished, it still serves as a reservoir for the urine. When the growth is on the anterior wall, it is sufficient to excise the mass with a wide area—at least an inch—of bladder around it. The greater part of the wound in the bladder can then be closed by sutures, but it is well to put in a small tube in the centre of the incision to prevent tension on the stitches. When the tumour is on the fundus of the bladder—that is to say, when it develops in that part of the bladder which is in relation with the peritoneum, the peritoneum should be freely opened and the intestines packed off so as to expose the field of operation thoroughly ; the growth is then cut away as before, and the bladder repaired by inserting two rows of sutures, one picking up the muscular coat of the organ, and the other inverting the peritoneum by Lembert's method. It is well to drain the bladder by a drainage tube introduced through a separate incision in its wall just above the pubes, and also to introduce a tube into the peritoneal cavity down to the bladder in case leakage should