60 CHAPTER VI. THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPLEEN. INJURIES. Injuries of this organ may be divided into penetrating wounds, and contusions or ruptures. Penetrating wounds are comparatively seldom met with, owing to the sheltered position of the organ beneath the ribs, and are generally caused by firearms. Contusions and ruptures of the spleen are more common, and, in a healthy spleen, are caused by severe blows, such as a kick from a horse or a run-over accident, and are therefore generally accompanied by other injuries ; when the spleen is enlarged, however; a comparatively slight injury may produce rupture. In some cases there ma}'^ be merely extravasation of blood within the capsule of the organ, but in more severe cases the spleen is ruptured to a varying degree and may even be completely pulped up. When the serous envelope of the spleen is torn, death from haemorrhage is liable to follow, either immediately or in a comparatively short time. The symptoms of mpture of the spleen are profound shock and signs of intra-abdominal htemorrhage. That the spleen is the organ injured may be suspected if there has been an injury in the splenic region and if the signs of hemorrhage are severe ; if the patient has an enlarged spleen the probability that that organ has been injured is much greater. There is often tenderness and an increase of dullness in the splenic area. TREATMENT.—Should the patient live long enough, the abdomen must be opened at once. If it is evident before commencing the operation that the spleen is the organ ruptured, the best incision is one parallel to and an inch below the left costal margin. When the diagnosis is uncertain, however, the incision should be an inch to the left of the middle line and, if large enough, this gives good access to the spleen unless the patient is stout; in that case a transverse incision outwards to the left, just above the level of the umbilicus, may be added. When the abdomen has been opened, the clot is rapidly turned out, the hand slipped in, the