CARCINOMA 175 ' acinous carcinomata '■—and those in wliich it originates in the ducts— ' duct carcinomata ' ; the latter are referred to separately (see p. 192). The ordinary acinous carcinoma commences in a lobule of the breast, by proliferation of the epithelial cells in the acini. The cancer cells are larger than the normal epithelium and do not simply line the wall of the acini, but quickly push their way into the surrounding tissues, passing into tlie lymph spaces and lymphatic vessels at an early period and growing along them. In some cases also blood-vessels become involved, and the cancer-cells penetrate their walls and form thrombi in their interior ; it is by the detachment of these thrombi that the dissemination of the disease to distant parts of the body takes place. The local spread of cancer of the breast along the lymph spaces and vessels is a very important point, because it gives the surgeon a definite indication as to the parts to be taken away in attempting to eradicate the disease. Since the researches of Heidenhaiu and Stiles have shown the true extent of the normal breast tissue and the mode of distribution of the disease, and since extensive and methodical operations have been carried out on the lines indicated by these pathological researches, recurrence after operation has greatly diminished in frequency, and in a large number of cases none has taken place—at any rate, for a long period of time. Cancer of the breast varies much in malignancy. The most common form grows with moderate rapidity, generally running its course in two to three years. It is very hard and is commonly spoken of as ' sciirlius,' and in it a large amount of fibrous tissue is formed between the alveolar spaces ; this fibrous tissue contracts and presses on the alveoli and leads to atrophy of the epithelial cells. Hence the centre of these growths becomes almost entirely converted into a mass of fibrous tissue, whilst at the periphery or growing part, there are large alveolar spaces containing epithelial cells with only a comparatively small amount of connective tissue between them. Sometimes the tumour grows extremely slowly and atrophies almost as fast as it grows. These are the typical cases of ' atrophic cancer,' and the patient may live for many years before the tumour idtimately kills her ; some indeed have lived as long as twenty years after the cancer has been discovered. Sometimes the growth extends with great rapidity—' encephaloid cancer '—and the patient dies a few months after the first discovery of the tumour. Every intermediate degree of malignancy is met with between these extremes. In some cases the cancer-cells, or the tissues around, undergo marked colloid degeneration—' colloid cancer '—and this is most commonly met with in young women ; this form of the disease is generally less malignant than the ordinary one. The tumour is single at first, and it is only at a later period that multiple growths are met with in the breast. From quite an early period, however, the lymphatic vessels in and leading from the breast are found to contain cancer-cells, and in a short time the nearest axillary lymphatic