504 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER and the blood-vessels cannot be seen. In old-standing cases, it may be slaty grey. Ulceration may be superficial, and a whitish layer of muco-pus frequently adheres to the surface. Ulceration frequently takes place along the most prominent part of the folds and ridges, into which the mucous membrane is thrown by contraction of the bladder muscle. Deeper ulceration is rare, and takes the form of an irregular ulcer or a solitary ulcer, or multiple rounded ulcers with thick heaped-up edges. Phosphatic deposit may powder the ulcerated siirface with white or form large phosphatic masses. Bullous cystitis is present when there are groups or widespread development of closely set vesicles like bullse. The condition may develop in any case of acute cystitis, and is frequently evanescent. In hasmorrhagic cystitis, there are numerous haemorrhages into the mucosa. Glandular cystitis consists of scattered yellowish vesicles, said to be due to occluded glands. The amount of vascular reaction around these vesicles may be very slight. In villous cystitis, numerous small villi develop and resemble a sessile papilloma. In tuberculous cystitis, the lesions may not differ from those of the early stage of cystitis due to other causes. Typical lesions may, however, develop. Small yellow tubercles are found rarely in a miliary form; more frequently they occur in groups, which may be scattered over the bladder, or may lie in the immediate neighbourhood of a ureter, or surround a deep tuberculous ulcer. Occasionally, a large yellow caseous mass is found in very chronic cases. These tubercles may break down, leaving a small ulcer, which extends by further breaking down of surrounding tubercles, so that a group of small ulcers coalesces into a large tuberculous ulcer. In this, the edges are thin, irregular, and overhanging. There is frequently evidence of healing at one part and spreading at another. The tuberculous lesions are usually grouped around a ureter, but may be widespread and affect the whole bladder. Bilharzia occurs in the bladder in the form of groups of yellow nodules, closely resembling tubercles, but usually of larger size, and sometimes set on ridges of inflamed mucous membrane. In another form, there is the development of irregular masses of granulation tissue, and, eventually, a form of villous tumour develops. Foreign bodies and calcuH are readily seen by means of the cystoscope. A calculus of very large size may be difficult to see, as the movements of the instrument are hampered by it. Calculi in saccuh, and behind an enlarged prostate, are readily recognised. A large calculus may, however, occupy a diverticulum and show no evidence of its presence on inspection of the small round opening by the cystoscope. Papilloma, or villous tumour, forms a very beautiful cystoscopic picture. These tumours may be single or multiple, and are most frequently