OPERATIONS UPON THE FEMALE GENITALS 602 to determine the presence or absence of adhesions, and to see whether the tumour is impacted in the pelvis or not. Any adhesions are separated and the tumour is delivered into the wound, the intestines being packed away with abdominal cloths or towels. The delivery of the tumour may be facilitated by the use of special corkscrew-hke instruments designed for the purpose. The broad ligament and Fallopian tube are then clamped between the ovary and uterus on each side. A second clamp is placed close to the uterus on each side, and the tube and Hgament are divided between them. The round ligament of each side should be isolated, ligatured, and divided. Instead of clamping the broad ligaments, the surgeon may transfix them by means of a pedicle needle between the uterus and ovary, and, after tying the ligatures, divide the broad ligament between them and the uterus, a second ligature or a clamp being applied close to that organ. The two layers of peritoneum forming the broad ligament are now easily stripped downwards until the uterine vessels are exposed at the lateral aspect of the uterus ; these are isolated and secured by passing a ligature round them at the level of the internal os. The peritoneum is then divided on the anterior wall of the uterus just above the level of the internal os and stripped downwards ; in doing this, care must be taken not to injure the bladder. The peritoneum of the posterior aspect of the uterus is similarly divided from one side to the other ; here it is more firmly adherent and does not readily separate. The cervix is then cut across either transversely so as to leave a flat surface, or in a wedge-shaped manner with the apex downwards ; the latter procedure is better. Probably, two or three vessels on the cut surface will require ligature. The cervical canal is examined to see if it is healthy ; if not, the whole cervix must be removed {vide infra). If it is, the cut surface of the cervical canal is disinfected with pure carbolic acid and closed with two or three catgut stitches. The cut edges of the peritoneum are now brought together by a continuous suture, care being taken that the wall of the bladder is not included. In this way, both layers of peritoneum of the broad ligaments and of the cervix are united throughout, and no raw area is left; the line of union forms a straight line across the floor of the pelvis. The pelvic cavity is mopped free of blood, the abdominal cloths are removed, and the parietal incision closed in the usual way Total hysterectomy.—-The steps of this operation are the same as those of the former up to the stage of ligature of the uterine vessels. The bladder is carefully detached from the upper part of the vagina and the anterior fornix is defined and opened transversely in front of the cervix. As the vagina is detached, it is held in volsella forceps, and the vaginal arteries are seized and ligatured ; the posterior fornix is opened in a similar way. In order to avoid injury to the ureters, care must be taken to keep close to the cervix. When all the htemorrhage has