152 AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK mucous membrane, there is severe dysphagia. Spasm and dyspnoea are common when one or both cords are imphcated, and free hemorrhage is not infrequent. The death of the patient is generally due to septic pneu- monia, but may occur from weakness, from asphyxia due to blocking of the air-passages by the growth, or from haemorrhage. TREATMENT.—Of intrinsic laryngeal cancer.—If the case seems otherwise suitable for operation, a piece of the growth should be removed with laiyngeal cutting-forceps, aided by the laryngeal mirror, for microscopical examination so as to verify the diagnosis ; this should never be done, however, unless the surgeon intends to follow it up by extirpation, as it usually excites increased activity of growth. In carcinoma all intra-laryngeal methods of removal may be at once condemned as inefficient ; the choice must lie between thyrotomy and complete extirpation of the larynx. When the growth involves both sides of the larynx extensively and the patient seems a suitable subject for a major operation, extirpation of the larynx may be undertaken. If the growth is small, and especially if it is limited to one side of the larynx, thyrotomy may be performed. It is better to prepare the patient for the major operation and then to open the larynx arid proceed according to what is found. The most important complications of thyrotomy and laryngectomy are those due to sepsis—^namely, cellulitis, septic pneumonia, or acute septiccemia ; there is also the risk of blood getting into the trachea during the operation, and either causing asphyxia or setting up pneumonia subse- quently. The danger of local sepsis, although it cannot be entirely avoided, may be minimised by adopting the preliminary precautions already recommended for all operations of this kind (see Vol. IV. p. 79). The dangers arising from the passage of blood into the trachea are avoided by the means described on p. 153. Thyrotomy.-—This operation is followed by extremely good results in suitable cases, both with regard to the question of non-recurrence and also with regard to that of articulation, the patient retaining a perfectly satisfactory though somewhat hoarse voice. In most cases of intrinsic cancer of the larynx, the operation should commence with a thyrotomy. This allows adequate inspection of the interior of the larynx and the surgeon is able to determine the best course to pursue. Before it is undertaken, however, the position of affairs must be explained to the patient, and the surgeon should have leave to do whatever is necessary. We have in several cases been agreeably disappointed in finding after thyrotomy that the disease was more local than the symptoms and appearances had indicated. As regards the aucesthetic, chloroform is the one most generally suitable. When the Trendelenburg's or Hahn's tube has been introduced, the anaesthetic can be administered through a tube attached to the canula, and thus the anaesthetic does not get into the way of the