AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 120 most important. Dilatation of the heart may become extreme, and should be always carefully looked for and the degree estimated if surgical treatment is being considered. Degeneration of the cardiac muscle also constantly occurs to a greater or less extent and is combined with the dilatation ; this is the cause of the irregular pulse and of the sudden death which is not infrequent in this affection. Changes in the blood are frequently present, and consist of diminution in the total number of white cells, increase in the lymphocytes and decrease of the polynuclears ; such alterations are, however, not pathognomonic. The stage of the disease should be estimated from the severity of the signs and symptoms and not from the length of time that they have been present. Pathology.—The disease is now generally considered to be a primary hyperplastic affection of the thyroid gland, which presents character- istic changes—the chief of which are absence of the colloid and of the enlarged vesicles, so that the gland appears to the naked eye as a firm, solid mass. A cut section has often a granular surface owing to the occurrence of these changes in patches. When the affection is secondary to some other enlargement of the thyroid it is often possible to recognise the areas where the hyperplastic changes are taking place. Microscopically, there is a great increase in the epithelial elements which tend to become columnar, an absence of colloid, and increased vascularity. The thymus gland is also constantly enlarged, but the exact relationship of this change to the disease is not known. Changes in the central nervous system and in the cervical sympathetic have been described : they are probably secondary to those in the thyroid gland. TRBATMEISTT.—(a) Medical.—Medical treatment cannot be relied on to cure the disease, but it may however alleviate the symptoms for a time, and should always be employed as a preliminary to surgical measures, except when the affection is secondary to an ordinary goitre. The physician should carefully estimate the degree of toxaemia so that surgical measures may be undertaken before the time arrives when they would be attended with too grave risks, and when the chance of benefit from them would be slight. Complete rest in bed should be ordered, freedom from work, worry, and anxiety should be secured if possible, and any uterine or ovarian disorder should be corrected. The patient should be placed among as cheerful surroundings as possible, and change of air is useful. Many drugs have been employed in the treatment of this affection. If the patient is markedly anaemic, arsenic is especially indicated, whilst bromide of potassium is valuable for sleeplessness or excitement. Digitalis and other cardiac tonics may be necessary when the heart symptoms are marked. Kocher recommends the administration of sodium phosphate. Thyroid extract and the iodine compounds should not be given. Rodagen and the administration of serum from