5 58 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER the disease, because pus and urine still escape into the bladder in spite of drainage of the renal pelvis. In some cases, however, shrinking of the organ and quiescence of the disease may ensue, but the best that can be hoped for is diminution of the hectic fever and the other symptoms due to the retention of decomposing pus. Partial nephrectomy.—When the kidney has been cut down upon and the tuberculous lesion is found to be hmited to one part of the kidney, the affected portion may be excised by removing a wedge-shaped portion containing the diseased area; the cut surfaces of the remaining portion of the organ are approximated by deep sutures (see p. 533). In some instances benefit has followed, although in several it has been found necessary to remove the rest of the kidney subsequently. The possibihty of this procedure must be kept in mind when a tuberculous kidney is exposed, for, if it is practicable to remove the disease and at the same time leave a sufficient amount of useful kidney tissue behind, one great objection to nephrectomy is removed. Complete nephrectomy.—This is the ideal operation, but the other kidney must be sound before its employment is justified ; the bladder and the peri-renal tissues must also be free from disease, and the patient in a fair condition to stand the operation. The most important point is the condition of the opposite kidney, and to determine this the ureters must be catheterised and the urine from each kidney collected separately and tested for tubercle bacilli, and the renal function must be carefully estimated. These matters are discussed in Chap. L. Nephrectomy for tuberculosis is best done through a lumbar incision which gives plenty of room for the removal of any tuberculous kidney requiring it; by extending the incision downwards and forwards the greater part of the ureter can be removed at the same time if necessary. The kidney is exposed and brought out on the loin in the usual manner (see p. 565), and the ureter is traced down until a healthy portion is reached—even if the wound has to be extended for the purpose—and is ligatured in two places and divided between the ligatures. Before division of the ureter, gauze should be packed around it so as to prevent infection by any pus which may be present between the ligatures. If the divided distal end of the ureter is apparently healthy, it should be touched with undiluted carbohc acid and the end turned in and closed by catgut stitches. The pedicle of the kidney is now hgatured in the usual manner, the ureter not being included, and the organ is removed along with the ureter ; in this way no pus should escape into the wound. The wound is closed in the usual manner, a drainage tube being inserted for a few days. Should there be evidence of tuberculous mischief lower down the ureter, the remainder of that tube must be dissected out, either immediately or at a subsequent operation, according to the patient's condition. If the patient is suffering from severe shock, the ends of