71 SUPERNUMERARY OR CERVICAL RiBS practically always fail, and, even should they succeed in bringing about closure of the external orifice, this will be followed by the formation of a cystic swelling in the neck. Cysts should be completely removed ; a partial operation will be followed by reproduction of the cyst, and will render subsequent removal of the cyst wall much more difficult. A transverse incision should be made over the tumour and the dissection should be very carefully carried out, bearing in mind that the cyst is often closely connected with the vessels and other important structures in the neck. Sometimes the cyst can be easily shelled out ; in other cases a portion is so adherent to important structures in the neck that it cannot be entirely taken away. Should this be the case, an attempt should be made to denude the portion left behind of its epithelium by cutting, scraping, and cauterisation ; but the result is uncertain. Congenital listulas may also, though very rarely, occur in connection with the cervical sinus, the deep groove which is produced by the tele- scoping of the lower part of the neck into the upper during the process of development. They are generally situated higher up. SUPERNUMERARY OR CERVICAL RIBS. Supernumerary or cervical ribs are connected with the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and may be well formed, extending down to the first rib, or only partial, their lower end being free. The degree of development may differ on the two sides of the neck. Their lower end may be anchylosed by bone to the first rib ; sometimes the spinal end alone is anchylosed. The rib may be developed separately from the seventh cervical transverse process, but sometimes the supernumerary rib appears to be a true enlargement of this latter process ; this may be called a ' false ' cervical rib in contrast to the other or 'true ' form. Both varieties may occur in the same patient and may be bilateral or unilateral. Radiograms show that cervical ribs are not infrequent in children, but for many years the patient may have no trouble and may not recognise that any deformity exists ; they occur, or, at any rate are most often noticed, in women. It is commonly the visible deformity that calls attention to the condition, but sometimes there is tenderness in the posterior triangle, with pain down the arm or in the brachial plexus or even anaesthesia or paresis in the hand. In some cases the swelling is mistaken for an aneurysm of the subclavian artery owing to the projection forwards of the vessel. When pain or paresis is present it is always advisable to exclude lesions of the spinal cord before deciding that the symptoms are due to the supernumerary rib. TREATMENT.—Operative interference should only be undertaken when severe symptoms are present ; for the mere deformity, which is often slight, it is hardly justifiable to submit the patient to a tedious