ORGANIC STRICTURE 387 tenotome or canaliculus knife is passed into its groove and the stricture is slit downwards throughout its length and the canal stretched until it admits a full-sized bougie. It a probe has been used, it is almost equally easy to insinuate a tenotome or a fine canaliculus knife alongside it and slit up the stricture in a similar manner. When all the bleeding has been arrested, a full-sized catheter is passed into the bladder from the external meatus and tied in position. The edges of the perineal wound are allowed to fall together and the dressings and after-treatment are the same as for Syme's operation (see p. 384). If any stitches are inserted, they should be merely one or two fine absorbable catgut sutures in the urethra and peri-uretloral tissues. The skin-wound and superficial parts should be left open. It may be impossible, in spite of every effort, to find a track along which the probe may be passed, or so much time may be consumed in searching for it unsuccessfully that something must be done to terminate the operation more speedily. Under these circumstances the best plan is to expose and open the membranous urethra behind the stricture ; the point of a curved probe may then be passed through the stricture from behind forwards and the latter divided as above. Some surgeons prefer to perform a Cock's perineal section (see p. 390) under these circumstances, whilst others open and drain the bladder above the pubes ; in both cases the treatment of the stricture is left to a subsequent period. Treatment of strictures accompanied by complications. —(a) Of strictures complicated by false passages.—When the surgeon has made a false passage, instmmental treatment should be abandoned for two or three weeks, the patient kept in bed for a few days, allowed to micturate spontaneously, and a urinary antiseptic (see p. 446) administered by the mouth. Extravasation of urine rarely follows the formation of a false passage unless the latter is behind a stricture or between two strictures (see p. 373). The false passage will generaUy close in about three weeks and then treatment can be begun again. Metal instruments nmst be used when instrumental treatment is resumed ; the urethra should be put fuUy on the stretch, the instrument passed very gently, and its point kept well under control. When the false passage is of some standing, and especially when there is more than one, the surgeon may have the greatest difficulty in passing an instrument ; it enters one false passage after another and it seems impossible to avoid them. The best plan then is to pass a number of fine bougies in succession and, when the first passes into a false passage, to leave it there and pass a second, which will probably either enter the same passage if it is large, or another, and to continue this until aU the false passages are occupied. Finally, another instrument may find its way through the stricture. If this one succeeds, it is held in position c c 2