96 AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK complication. It is very seldom that one gland alone is affected, and as scraping only deals with the particular gland penetrated by the instru- ment, it is of no use in these cases. Hence, under these circumstances, we advise complete removal of the infected area by excision. 3. When suppuration is occurring in the glands, the cases may be arbitrarily divided into three groups : {a) The abscess, after bursting through the fascia, may form a comparatively limited swelling beneath the skin. In these cases complete excision of the gland and the abscess may be performed, in the manner to be described immediately, an oval piece of the skin being removed with the abscess, [b) The abscess in the gland may have burst through the fascia and have formed a large swelling beneath the skin, which is thinned over it Here the operation advised above—namely, complete removal of the abscess, the glands, and the portion of skin affected—would entaU a gap that it would be difficult to close and the scar of which would be very unsightly. It is therefore probably best merely to open the abscess in the first instance, and three or four weeks later, when the skin has recovered and merely a sinus is left, to treat the case as one falling under the next heading, namely, that of tuberculous glands accompanied by a sinus. In some cases in which the suppuration is limited to one gland, it may suffice for a cure to open the abscess and scrape out the gland. When, however, the wound does not heal and fresh glandular swelling appears, the case must be treated as above, (c) An abscess may be present which has not yet perforated the deep fascia. When the affection appears to be limited to one gland, and when this is apparently totally destroyed and a mere bag of pus is present—as indicated by fluctuation throughout the whole of the swelling—it may be worth whUe to make a small incision into the abscess, evacuate the pus, scrape away all caseous material, inject iodoform and glycerine emulsion, and stitch up the wound. When it can be done, a small transverse incision behind the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid will suffice, and the resulting scar is practically invisible. This method is however only available in a very few cases, and is useless when a large mass of infected glands is present. Under these circumstances, other glands wiQ generally enlarge very rapidly, and a sinus will form and ultimately the glandular area will have to be excised. 4. When the enlarged glands are accompanied by sinuses, excision is undoubtedly the best method whenever it can be adopted, and it should always be carried out when there are not more than two or three sinuses along the line of the incision necessary for the operation upon the glands. When, however, there are numerous sinuses in different directions, this would involve a number of incisions and the removal of a consider- able cutaneous area in order to extirpate the disease completely, and therefore thorough scraping of the sinuses and the glands at the bottom of them, followed by the application of undiluted carbolic acid to the