AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS 312 is also not uncommon to find disease of the body of the testis or epididymis when the hydrocele fluid is drawn off. Treatment.—In children, active treatment is rarely called for. Lotio plumbi may be apphed, and the fluid will usually become completely absorbed in the course of a few months. In adults it is advisable to get rid of the hydrocele, as, although when small it does not trouble the patient materially, it becomes steadily larger if left alone, until it may be a source of great discomfort from its size and weight. When the hydrocele is due to gummatous disease of the testis, the cure of that affection will generally lead to the disappearance of the hydrocele. This also holds good when the diagnosis has not been made until the hydrocele has been tapped; no further treatment of the hydrocele need be carried out until the effect of anti-syphihtic treatment is apparent. Many methods have been introduced for the treatment of hydrocele, of which we may mention the following : Simple tapping, tapping followed by the injection of irritants into the sac, irrigation of the cavity with irritants, incision and drainage, stuffing the cavity, and excision or eversion of the tunica vaginalis. Of these, the only ones that require any detailed description are tapping followed by injection, and excision or eversion of the hydrocele sac. Simple tapping (see p. 313) does not lead to a cure. It may be em- ployed when the patient objects to more radical treatment, or when he cannot afford to he up for so long a period as a week or ten days. Simple tapping without injection is not curative, and only reheves the patient of his discomfort for a time. The objections to repeated tapping, apart from its inefficiency as a curative method, are the risks of sepsis— which, however, should not be great—and the risk of bleeding into the sac, leading to the formation of a hsematocele. The points to be borne in mind in tapping a hydrocele are that the disinfection of the instruments and the skin should be perfect, and that any visible vessel should be avoided. Drainage was at one time much employed, but it necessitates the patient lying up for from ten to fourteen days and possesses no advantage over the more radical methods. The same remark apphes to opening and stuffing the hydrocele with gauze, which is a very objectionable method on account of the danger of sepsis and the slow recovery. It is not even justified by the desue to obtain a radical cure, as this can be more certainly obtained by other methods. Tapping, followed by injection, no doubt often leads to a cure, and is in some ways a less severe procedure than excision. There is no necessity for a general anaesthetic, and possibly the patient is able to get about sooner. At the same time it is inferior to excision or eversion, as it is uncertain in its results and is accompanied by a certain amount of risk, especially in old subjects who are in bad health, for the injection may