319 HEMATOCELE of a hydrocele and bleeding goes on into the hydrocele sac. In these cases the tunica vaginahs becomes rapidly distended with blood, there is generally a good deal of pain, and the diagnosis is comparatively easy. IDIOPATHIC HiEMATOCELE. This condition is more common than the preceding one, and generally results from the giving way of delicate vessels in the thickened walls of an old hydrocele, so that haemorrhage occurs into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. The blood-clots on the surface of the tunica vaginalis become partially organised, and the sac wall therefore becomes increasingly thick—the visceral as well as the parietal layer being affected. After a time, calcareous salts are deposited in the imperfectly organised clots, so that ultimately a dense, calcareous cyst wall may be formed, which may exert injurious pressure on the testicle and lead to its atrophy. The swelling closely resembles a hydrocele in shape and situation, but differs from it in the density of its walls, in the difticulty of making out fluctuation, in its greater weight, and in the absence of transluccncy. TREATMENT. Of acute traumatic haematocele. — The patient should be put to bed, the testicle supported, and cold applied to the parts by means of an ice-bag or Leiter's tubes. Unless it be evident in the course of a few days that absorption of the clot is taking place, the best plan is to make a small incision, evacuate the clot, and drain the sac for a few days. Of chronic idiopathic hccmatocele.—The only treatment of any avail is excision, and this may either take the form of excision •of the parietal portion of the tunica vaginahs, or removal of the whole of the tunica vaginalis combined with castration. Tapping, followed by injection, is useless. Laying open and draining the sac seems to possess no advantages over excision—except, possibly, that there is less risk of injuring the structures of the cord, which are often intimately adherent to the sac wall—whilst the risks of sepsis are much greater than after excision, and the results are not so satisfactory because the wall of the haematocele will not collapse properly if it is very rigid. The difficulty of identifying the vas may be overcome by tracing it down from above. In excising a Jui'matocelc the vas and cord must first be separated from the sac wall right down to the testis, after which the haematocele is isolated from its various coverings, its wall laid open, the clots turned out, and the parietal portion of the tunica vaginalis clipped away. Castration may be necessitated by the presence of a very dense calcareous sac wall, which cannot be clipped away, and it may be done all the more unhesitatingly because the pressure exerted by the calcareous sac wall will probably have damaged the testis irretrievably. The operation is easy, as the cord can be divided an inch or so above the