449 CHRONIC CYSTITIS The affection has to be distinguished from tuberculosis of the bladder, and from neuralgia of nervous origin, such as occurs in locomotor ataxia, also from suppurative pyeUtis and pyelonephritis. In pyelitis, the fre- quency of micturition is as marked during the night as during the day, and the pus is intimately mixed with the urine. There may be no scalding on micturition, and there is no tenderness on pressure over the neck of the bladder or when the organ becomes distended, whilst there is generally some tenderness or swelhng in the region of the affected kidney together with some elevation of temperature, and the cystoscope will usually show pus issuing from the ureter on the affected side. The diagnosis of tuberculosis of the bladder is dealt with in Chap. XLIV. When the case is of nervous origin, the existence of the primary disease will make the diagnosis clear. TREATMENT.—The important point is the treatment of the primary condition ; that of the cystitis itself is essentially local. The general treatment for acute cystitis (see p. 445) should be employed, and the administration of drugs acting directly upon the bladder, such as sandal-wood oil, turpentine, or cantharides, is of advantage. If the urine is ammoniacal, urinary antiseptics (see p. 446) are required ; if it is alkaline, but not ammoniacal, benzoate of soda is useful. Local treatment.—When the symptoms are very slight, irrigation of the bladder (see p. 447) with warm boric lotion, night and morning, will usually suffice if the primary trouble has been removed. The urine is first withdrawn, and as much lotion as the bladder will tolerate is injected with a syringe as rapidly as possible in order to distend the vesical mucous membrane. The washing-out should be repeated until the urine becomes quite clear, and it is well to leave about half an ounce of the lotion in the bladder at the end of the sitting. If the case does not yield to irrigation with boric acid, perchloride of mercury may be substituted. Wlien a strong solution is employed, it is well not to leave any behind in the bladder, as it might cause irritation. When the neck of the bladder and the prostatic urethra are the areas most affected, as in gonorrhoeal cystitis, the prostatic urethra should be washed out by a catheter with a backward flow, after the irrigation of the bladder has been completed. Among the solutions employed for washing out the bladder may be mentioned permanganate of potash (i in 5000), perchloride of mercury (i in 20,000 to i in 5000), neutral solution of quinine (gr. ij ad 3]), protargol (j per cent.), and argyrol (5 per cent.). In rebellious cases, in which the inflammation is mainly confined to the neck of the bladder, a useful plair is to instil five to ten minims of a i to 2 per cent, solution of nitrate of silver into the prostatic portion of the urethra by means of a suitable graduated syringe (see Fig. 122), a few minutes before washing out the bladder. Another plan is to wash out the bladder with plain boiled water, then instil