ENLARGEMENT 65 TUMOURS. These rare affections are generally sarcomatous, and spring from the capsule of the organ. Adhesions to neighbouring structures soon occur, and complete removal is thus rendered difficult. TREATMENT.—Splenectomy is called for, but before proceeding to excision the condition of matters as regards adhesions to the stomach and colon must be made out ; if extensive adhesions are present, the operation had better be abandoned. ENLARGEMENT. The commonest cause of splenic enlargement is malaria, in which the spleen may attain an enormous size and cause great discomfort. A similar enlargement may accompany leucocythcemia—a condition in which there are profound changes in the blood and lymplratic glands. Enlargement also occurs as a result of cirrhosis of the liver, or cardiac disease. Simple or idiopathic enlargemeni or priiiiarv splenic ancEuvia, dire to an increase in the glandular tissue, is also met with, but its cause is unknown. This affection (sometimes termed ' primary splenomegaly ') is cha- racterised by diminution in the number of red corpuscles, lowering of the percentage of haemoglobin, leucopenia, and enlargement of the spleen not connected with any known cause. It is almost always fatal unless splenectomy is done. Enlargement of the spleen may cause much discomfort and ill-health apart from any actual blood changes. Splenectomy has been done in a large number of cases with results varying to a great extent with the nature of the primary cause. Thus the great majority of patients suffering from leucocythaemia die after splenectomy, and the result of a large number of operations seems to show that the operation is un- justifiable for this condition. The mortality of splenectomy for malarial enlargement is also considerable, and the operation should not be done unless the patient be suffering severely from the pressure effects of a very large spleen. This leaves only the so-called primary splenic anaemia or idiopathic enlargement of the spleen as a legitimate object of splenectomy. A considerable number of cases have been done for this condition with success, and operation is called for provided that the symptoms are not arrested by medical means. It should always be done before adhesions of the spleen have taken place. Splenectomy.—The greatest care must be taken to arrest all haemorrhage. Every oozing point in the abdominal incision should be clamped as soon as it is met with and subsequently ligatured, otherwise it is apt to ooze afterwards. V. F