INJURIES 15 so as to relax the abdominal muscles, and a large ice-bag or Leiter's tubes (see Vol. I. p. 8) is applied over the right hypocliondrium. Should there be vomiting, which tends to keep up the bleeding, it must be checked if possible by giving a mixture containing i minim of dilute hydrocyanic acid, 20 grs. of carbonate of bismuth, 15 grs. of bicar- bonate of soda, and 2 ounces of hot water every three hours. A strict watch must be kept for symptoms of severe loss of blood, but it is not advisable to inject saline solution unless it is urgently called for, because the hemorrhage is apt to recur when the blood pressure is raised by the injection, and the coagulating power of blood, when largely diluted with salt solution and mixed with bile, is very defective. These injuries should be looked upon as extremely serious, and the patient must be carefully watched to see that no fresh haemorrhage occurs after recovery from the primary shock ; should this happen, the only chance of recover lies in immediate laparotomy. Laparotomy is also necessary if the symptoms point to severe hjemorrhage when the case is first seen, and should be carried out whether there is a wound of the abdominal wall or not. Operative.—It is sometimes said that it is advisable to wait for the patient to recover from the shock before operating for ruptured liver. If. however, there is severe haemorrhage the patient will never recover from the shock, and, therefore, should the surgeon have reason to believe that active haemorrhage is proceeding, the patient's only chance is im- mediate operation irrespective of the amount of shock present. Every precaution for the prevention of shock should be employed (see Vol. I. p. 118), and rapidity of operation is of primary importance, so as to reach and control the bleeding area as quickly as possible. The abdomen should be opened by a free vertical incision an inch to the right of the linea alba. Further room may be gained if desired by a lateral incision about a finger's breadth below the right costal margin or transversely outwards to the right through the rectus, just above the umbilicus. The surgeon must have plenty of room, and the incision should be made as rapidly as possible. The edges of the incision should be widely retracted immediately the abdomen has been opened, and the blood rapidly swabbed away so as to ascertain its source. Directly the bleeding area is found, the oozing is stopped by thrusting gauze firmly into the gap so as to give time for the surgeon to investigate the extent and character of the lesion and to arrest the heemorrhage. It must, however, be admitted that it is often exces- sively difficult to do this, even after free exposure of the liver, and the surgeon may see the patient steadily losing blood to an alarming or even fatal degree. This must not, however, deter him from operating upon these cases, as operation does not increase the haemorrhage, whereas it gives the patient the only chance of life. Whoi there is a clean-ciit laceration of the anterior edge of the liver,