344 AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA For this purpose Lister's bougies (see Fig. 103) should be used. In the first instance they should be passed every third day for several weeks ; the interval is then gradually increased if no contraction seems to be taking place. First a week, then two, three, or four weeks may be allowed to elapse between each sitting, but the patient must be cautioned that for the rest of his life he is liable to contraction of the stricture and that, should this once become well developed, it is very difficult to treat; he must therefore always be under observation and may require to have an instrument passed at least once in three months for the rest of his life. The external dressings should be changed every twelve hours or oftener if they become soiled ; the gauze packing put in at the time should be removed at the end of two or three days and need not be renewed. The perineal drainage tube should be left undisturbed for four days, when it may be dispensed with. The perineal wound should then be left alone, merely external dressings being applied over it. The bowels should be kept confined for four or five days by laudanum, and salines should then be administered so as to obtain liquid motions without straining. The external dressing should be removed just before each act of defaecation and a piece of gauze wet with i in 2000 sublimate solution kept over the perineal wound during the act ; when the act is completed, the parts should be washed with i in 20 carbolic solution, followed by i in 2000 sublimate lotion, and the external dressing renewed. The wound should follow an aseptic course and heal in three or four weeks. (b) Of cases seen at a later period—^When some days have elapsed before the patient comes under the surgeon's notice, or when operative procedures have not been undertaken in the first instance but are called for after the lapse of some time on account of the occurrence of sepsis, the procedure is practically the same, i.e. perineal section is performed and a catheter introduced into the bladder from the meatus ; there is, however, no possibility of suturing the rent in the urethra. After the catheter has been tied in position, a drainage tube should be introduced down to the seat of injury, and the wound packed for two or three days, the after-treatment being carried out as above described. The treatment of extravasation of urine, whether immediate or of some standing, is discussed in Chap. XXXVI.