GALL-STONES 53 squeeze it up into the first part and cut down upon it there {vide supra). Should this be impossible, the duct must be incised as near to the stone as the surgeon can reach without damaging either the duodenum or the pancreas, these structures being turned forwards as far as possible. A suitable pair of forceps or a scoop is passed into the incision and the stone extracted whole if possible, or, if not, in fragments. Incision of the common duct is followed by the escape of bile, some- times in large quantities. When the duct is much dilated, it is well to make a small incision into it in the first instance, so as to avoid having the wound flooded with a large quantity of bile, and a red rubber catheter may be slipped into the opening in the duct in order to carry off the bulk of the bile, any that escapes alongside the tube being rapidly mopped up with sterilised pads, which should be at hand in large numbers and should not be used a second time ; they should be fixed in forceps so that they cannot be left behind. When the pressure of the bile has diminished, the incision may be enlarged and the stone removed as mentioned above ; the whole length of the duct should then be palpated and a suitable probe introduced so as to explore the duct both upwards and downwards. As in these cases the bile-duct is infected and more or less cholangitis is present, and as it is not always certain that the orifice of the bile-duct is sufficiently wide to permit of satisfactory drainage of the bile-ducts if the opening made in the common duct is closed, it is always well to drain the common duct for a few days ; this is essential when acute cholangitis is present. Drainage is effected by using a red rubber drainage tube of suitable size with a lateral opening near its end which is brought opposite the entrance of the left hepatic duct into the common duct. This tube should fit the incision in the duct, and is fixed in place by a fine absorbable catgut stitch passed through the two cut edges and the drainage tube ; if the opening in the duct is very large it may be surrounded by a purse-string suture which will obviate all danger of leakage of the bile. The tube is connected with a bottle as in cholecystostomy (see p. 49) and may usually be left out in a week. As the tube fits the opening in the duct no packing is necessary, but it is well to introduce a separate large drainage tube down to the bottom of the wound for a few days. These tubes may emerge at the upper end of the incision or, if more convenient, through separate stab-openings, the main incision in the latter case being closed by through-and-through sutures. Some surgeons also perform cholecystostomy in these cases, so as to drain the gall-bladder and cure any cholecystitis and thus minimise the chance of fresh formation of stones. On this point the surgeon will be guided largely by the condition which he finds ; if there are stones in the gall-bladder or if it is inflamed, it is well to drain it ■ if however it is shrunken and contains no stones it may not be possible to do this. If it is shrunken and contains stones, cholecystectomy should be performed if the patient's condition admits.