2l6 AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX rib and the abscess will be opened at this point. If this is the case, the pus is rapidly flushed out of the wound, the external portion of the abscess wall is clipped away, and then the affected portion of the rib can be lifted out so as to expose the periosteum on its inner surface. This is not infrequently covered with tuberculous granulations which should be scraped away, taking care not to perforate the pleura, and finally the surface left may be rubbed with undiluted carbolic acid so as to destroy any bacilli that may have been left behind. A clean wound, probably without any tuberculous material in it, is thus left and is now stitched up; if, however, undiluted carbolic acid has been applied to the surface it is well to put in a small drainage tube at one angle of the wound for two or three days. Healing usually occurs by first intention, and the patient is well in about ten days. Of tuberculosis of the costal cartilages and sternum.—Here the principles of treatment are the same, but the operation is more difficult. The abscess is dissected away and the costal cartilage is divided outside its limits and also disarticulated from the sternum. If the latter bone is affected, a rugine is introduced behind it, the soft parts are gently pushed back, and as much of the side and posterior surface of the bone as is affected is clipped away with cutting-forceps until the whole of the diseased area has apparently been removed. The deeper structures are then carefully scraped, and sponged over with pure carbolic acid, and it is generally well to leave the wound open and pack it with iodoformed gauze until the surface is covered with healthy granulations, when the packing should be discontinued. When the sternum itself is the seat of disease, the treatment is similar. The abscess is isolated as far as possible, the whole of its anterior wall is clipped away, and the carious surface of the sternum is exposed and gouged or chiselled away well wide of the disease. If the whole thickness of the bone is diseased, the sternum should be gradually bored through and enough bone cut away to get beyond the disease. The wound is packed and allowed to granulate from the bottom. When the patient comes under notice with a tuberculous sinus, due to any of these causes, the treatment is similar. The sinus is thoroughly opened up, dissected out if possible, and the diseased rib or portion of the sternum is removed. After the soft tissues have been scraped and undiluted carbolic acid has been applied to them, the wound is left open and packed with iodoformed gauze. INFLAMMATION OF THE PLEURA. Two forms of inflammation occur in the pleural cavity—namely, non- suppurative inflammation of the pleura, or pleurisy, and the suppurative form, commonly known as empyema.