CHAPTER XLIV. TUBERCULOSIS OF THE BLADDER. The bladder is not infrequently affected with tuberculosis, which is generally secondary to tuberculosis of the kidney, prostate, or testicle, though in rare cases it may be primary. It may occur at any age, but it chiefly attacks young male adults, and any cause of cystitis, especially gonorrhoea, may predispose to it. Its greater frequency in men is probably accounted for by the fact that the male genital organs are more closely associated with the urinary apparatus than are those of the female. The tubercles are deposited in the superficial layers of the mucous membrane, and ulcers, varying in size from a pin's head to a sixpence or larger, occur early. The disease generally commences in the trigone, especially near the oriiice of one or other ureter, and is in any case most advanced there, but there may be numerous tuberculous ulcers scattered over a large extent of the vesical mucous membrane, and the bladder wall then becomes inflamed and thickened, and its capacity much diminished. The ulcers seldom extend deeper than the mucous and sub-mucous tissues ; they may spread into the prostatic urethra and thence to the prostate itself. The first and most important symptom is an apparently causeless and painless frequency of micturition. At first the patient empties the bladder every two or three hours, but the intervals gradually become shorter, iTntil in bad cases the patient may be passing water every five or ten minutes, and a kind of false incontinence is established. The frequency is as marked at night as during the day, and the patient gets no rest. Micturition soon becomes painful and is often unbearable ; the pain is worst at the commencement and end of the act. Hiemorrhage is a common and early symptom, and generally occurs towards the end of the act of micturition, and is not influenced by rest ; occasionally, large quantities of blood are passed, and the bladder may become filled with clots. As a rule the amount of pus is small, and it is mixed with mucus : when a large amount is present it probably comes from the