455 TUBERCULOSIS much used, but is disappointing in its results ; if employed it should be diluted three or four times with water before being injected. Operative treatment.—This may be directed against the primary focus if the tuberculosis of the bladder is secondary, or it may be limited to the bladder when the disease is primary, when the condition of the bladder does not improve after removal of the primary focus, or when the latter cannot be taken away. In the early stage, the tubercles in the bladder may be few in number and limited to the neighbourhood of one ureter, the primary focus being in the corresponding kidney. If that is the case and the disease is limited to one kidney, as it generally is at first, excision of the kidney should be performed. Even in more ad- vanced cases, in which the kidney is much diseased and a large quantity of tuberculous pus is being poured into the bladder, it should be removed, provided the other kidney can do the work. Primary disease in the prostate must also be dealt with (see p. 407). Fig. 123.—Thomson Walker's Retractor for Supra-pubic Cystotomy. The special shape of this retractor ensures wider separation of the bladder walls than of the abdominal wound. Operative treatment, so far as the bladder itself is concerned, aims at giving it complete rest by opening the organ above the pubes. Even if this fails to cure, it may relieve the patient considerably, as the repeated painful contractions of the bladder soon cease. Perineal drainage is objectionable, because the tube lies in contact with the ulcerated portion of the bladder in a very sensitive area, while it is very difficult to prevent sepsis with an opening in that situation. The supra-pubic operation has the further advantage that the interior of the bladder may be in- spected and suitable local treatment applied to the ulcers. The details of supra-pubic cystotomy are given on p. 474. The bladder is opened, and the edges of the incision through its walls are held well apart by two or three large retractors (see Fig. 123), and the interior of the organ mopped out and examined with the aid of a powerful head- light. Each ulcer should be dealt with in the manner described below, and the mucous membrane must therefore be gone over most thoroughly. The great difficulty in doing this is the constant entrance of urine through the ureters, so that the wound becomes rapidly moist even after the most careful sponging. A very useful aid is the ' caisson ' speculum (see Fig. 124)', by which areas of the bladder can be isolated, dried, and appropriately