385 ORGANIC STRICTURE solution (gr. 40 to the ounce), the staff is withdrawn, and a full-sized gum-elastic catheter bent to the proper urethral curve on a stylet is passed into the bladder and tied in, the point of the instrument being kept close along the urethral roof as it is passed. It is sometimes difficult to pass the catheter into the bladder in this manner as, unless the point be kept closely in contact with the urethral roof, it is very apt to emerge in the perineal wound ; this is always likely to occur if a soft instrument is used. It is usually possible, however, to pass the instrument into the bladder with a little manipulation. The bladder should never be drained through the perineal wound, and the latter should be left unsutured ; its edges fall together as the patient lies in bed and it heals rapidly. If sutures are used, only a few should be inserted in the anterior part, and enough of the wound should always be left open to insure the free escape of any urine that may find its way alongside the catheter, otherwise extravasation may occur into the cellular tissue. The dressings are kept in position by a T-bandage. The catheter is tied in by one of the methods described on p. 342. The catheter should remain unchanged for three days, when it may be left out. If the stricture has been extensive, there is no objection to tying in a second catheter for two days, so as to make sure that the passage remains more or less rigid after the withdrawal of the instrument. After the catheter is finally withdrawn the patient is allowed to micturate naturally ; at first the urine will pass almost entirely by the perineal wound, but the amount passing by the urethra will steadily increase, until finally it all passes in the normal direction and the perineal wound heals, as a rule, in about six weeks. A week after the operation the surgeon should pass a full-sized metal instrument into the bladder, and this should be repeated every third day until the wound has healed. The instrument must be passed very gently, the point being kept in close contact with the roof, otherwise it will pass out through the perineal wound and open it up ; a soft instrument should not be passed until the wound has healed. Instruments should be passed at regular intervals after healing is complete ; in the first place they should be passed weekly, but the interval may be gradually increased to a fortnight, three weeks, and so on, until, after about a year, the patient need only have an instrument passed once in six months unless the stricture shows signs of contracting. The results of this operation are very satisfactory ; any tendency to relapse is easily guarded against by the occasional passage of an instrument. Whcdhoit.se's operation.—When the surgeon fails to pass an instrument through the stricture or when the necessary time cannot be devoted to prehminary dilatation of the stricture, Wheelhouse's operation must be employed. The perineum is shaved and disinfected and a Wheelhouse's staff (see Fig. 109) is passed down to the face of the stricture with its