70 AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK the hypoglossal and glossopharyngeal nerves. It has usually only an external orifice, and does not communicate directly with the pharynx, though it generally comes into close connection with it in the neigh- bourhood of the tonsil; if there is an internal opening it is in that situation. When the branchial cleft is closed at both ends, but not throughout its whole length, the intervening portion may become dilated and give rise to a cyst, or a chain of cysts, which may only become evident compara- tively late in life. Two kinds of cysts are formed according to the part of the cleft which is patent and the character of the epithelium lining it. In the most common form the epithelium is squamous and the contents are of the regular dermoid tj'pe. More rarely, the cyst contains a thin mucoid fluid, and the epithelium lining it is cylindrical or ciliated. These branchiogenic tumours usually occur in the upper part of the anterior triangle of the neck about the level of the hyoid bone and beneath the deep cervical fascia. The dermoids form oval unilocular tumours which feel lax and fluctuate ; the mucous form may be multilocular and translucent. The skin is normal and not attached to the tumour which has no outlying nodules or enlarged glands. When large, the swelling may lift up the sterno-mastoid and project into the posterior triangle. As a rule the mucous form is noticed at or immediately after birth, whereas the dermoid is not discovered until after puberty. These cysts gradually increase in size, and in some cases epithelioma may develop in connection with them in later life. TREATMENT.—^The removal of a long, narrow, fistulous track of this kind is always a matter of extreme difficulty, and, if it is not com- pletely taken away, the fistula will recur or a cyst will form in connection with the part left. It is not uncommon to find that the patient's condition is made worse by the operation, and therefore in most cases the fistula is better left alone, unless it is a source of real annoyance; when, however, there is a communication with the pharynx or a troublesome discharge of mucus, an attempt may be made to dissect out the fistula. The first step is to pass a fine probe along the whole length of the canal, which is then exposed by an incision running along the anterior border of the sterno- mastoid. Great care is necessary to avoid cutting across the fistulous track, otherwise it may be lost. Very delicate dissection is needed to isolate it throughout, and the probe should be maintained in position until the whole track has been satisfactorily defined. It is then detached above at its connection with the pharynx, and if a communication results, the small aperture is inverted and closed by fine catgut sutures inserted after Lembert's method. When a communication has been made with the pharynx, it is well to insert a small drainage tube for two or three days lest sepsis should occur. Attempts to destroy the lining membrane of the canal with caustics, the sharp spoon, or the actual cautery in place of dissecting out the tube