CHAPTER XLVI. 462 VESICAL CALCULUS. The stones most often met with in the bladder are composed of uric acid or urate of soda ; calcuU of phosphate of lime or triple phosphates are probably the next in order of frequency, whilst oxalate of lime stones are less common, and those of cystine and xanthic oxide are quite rare. The calculus may be composed of one of these substances alone, but, except in the case of the two last-named forms, it generally contains more than one. A stone that has remained for some time in a bladder that is inflamed generally becomes coated with a phosphatic deposit ; as the inflammation subsides, fresh deposits of the original substance may occur and this alternation may be frequently repeated. Vesical calculi may be single or multiple, and vary much in shape; single stones are usually round or oval, multiple stones are often faceted. Phosphatic stones are usually smooth, whilst an oxalate calculus is so rough that it has received the name of 'mulberry calculus.' Uric acid calculi are brownish-red in colour ; uratic stones are of a duller sandy colour ; phosphatic stones are white ; mulberry calculi are of a dark claret colour. Vesical calculi may either form in situ or, more commonly, they descend from the kidney and increase considerably in-size while in the bladder from deposit of fresh salts upon them. Stones which form primarily in the bladder generally occur in connection with some obstruction to the outflow of urine—for example, in enlarged prostate— and there is usually a foreign body, such as blood-clot, a piece of mucus, or a portion of catheter, which acts as a nucleus upon which the salts are deposited. The affection is more common in men than in women ; in the latter^ small stones are much more easily passed and therefore escape notice. The causes are similar to those of renal calculus (see Chap. LV.). A stone in the bladder usually lies well down behind the prostate and near the internal meatus, and alters its position according to the movements of the patient. If the bladder is sacculated, it is not uncommon for the