274 AFFECTIONS OF THE PENIS Phimosis apparently plays an important part in the etiology of the affection, probably owing to the continued irritation of retained secretion. As a rule the growth is warty in character, and in the early stages is frequently confounded with a simple papilloma, whilst in the later stages it may be mistaken for a gumma ; in other cases the tumour takes the form of a deep ulcerated crack with dense indurated margins. Any warty growth upon the penis in an old person should be looked upon with the gravest suspicion, and careful examination will usually reveal an induration of its base. In doubtful cases no time should be wasted in keeping the patient under observation, but a portion of the edge of the growth should be removed for microscopical examination. The tumour is rapid in its growth and penetrates deeply into the glans ; when once it implicates the corpora cavernosa it spreads rapidly through that structure. It may also spread into the corpus spongiosum and lead to difficult and painful micturition and ultimately to the formation of urinary fistulse. The glands in the groin are affected early, very frequently on both sides. TRBATMEiN'T.—The only treatment is amputation of the penis, and no time should be lost, as epithelioma in this situation frequently spreads rapidly. The amputation may consist in the removal of part or the whole of the organ. Partial amputation is suitable for those cases in which the disease is in its earhest stages, when the growth has not infil- trated the corpora cavernosa, and when it is possible to leave a projecting stump of the organ in front of the scrotum. If the amputation involves removal of the whole of the pendulous portion of the organ, the patient will be more comfortable if the whole organ is removed, and the urethra brought out in the perineum. Partial amputation of the penis.—The parts are shaved and dis- infected, and the penis is encircled by india-rubber tubing or by some suitable clamp applied immediately in front of the scrotum so as to arrest the circulation (see Fig. 68). The organ is then held in the vertical position and a full-sized straight bougie is passed down the urethra as far as the tourniquet. The best form of amputation is that by a long flap, fashioned from the skin of the under-surface of the penis, which must be long enough to cover the end of the organ comfortably, and should be slightly rounded, its length being rather more than half the circumference of the penis at the point of amputation. The flap consists of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, and can be readily raised by a few touches of the knife. The penis should not be put upon the stretch as the flap is cut. After the flap has been raised and turned back, the two ends of the incision marking it out are joined across the dorsum by an incision slightly convex forwards, and then the knife, with its blade horizontal, is thrust between the corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongiosum, - its cutting-edge is turned upwards and it is made to divide the corpora