INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 167 being diffuse and tlie swelling itself firm and elastic ; this enlarges slowly as long as the original cause is in action. The thickened part moves with the rest of the breast and there is no adhesion to the skin unless suppuration occurs. The axillary glands may be unaffected, but they may be enlarged and tender. Suppuration occasionally occurs, and in that case the pain and tenderness become more acute and the skin may become adherent to the inflamed breast. These cases are sometimes difficult to diagnose, and are often confounded with cancer of the breast or vice versa. In cancer, however, the skin becomes pulled upon at a comparatively early period, without any of the signs of inflammation, and puckers when an attempt is made to push it gently up from the tumour, or an actual dimple is found due to the pull upon the suspensory ligaments of the breast which are involved in the cancerous growth. Carcinoma is also more defined and harder, and usually forms a prominent mass under the hand when the palm presses the breast flat against the ribs, whereas in chronic mastitis no definite hard mass is felt on doing this, even when a tumour may be apparent to the fingers. Chronic mastitis usually occurs in younger subjects than those liable to cancer, and the pain is comparatively slight and is not stabbing in character. There is some ground for believing that this condition, though innocent at first, may lead to the development of cancer. Treatment.^—The breast should be supported by a handkerchief or, still better, by a breast-support (see Fig. 43), and all causes of pressure or friction should be removed. The arm on the affected side should be kept in a sling, and in bad cases even fastened to the side at first. If there is much pain, belladonna ointment or glycerinum bella- donnae may be smeared over the breast, but the best treatment is probably a succession of hot fomentations or poultices. The induration takes a considerable time to disappear; as soon as it begins to improve, pressure—best applied by strapping the breast—will promote its absorption. The organ should be supported, and strips of strapping about two inches wide are firmly applied from below upwards, beginning over the sternum in front and extending well behind the posterior axillary line. If there is the least doubt as to the nature of the swelling, or if it does not yield to treatment, the best plan is to cut down upon and remove the thickened mass ; for, after all, this is the most effectual way of getting rid of the inflammatory area, while, if the mass proves to be cancerous, the diagnosis is made at a comparatively early period. We prefer to excise the swelling rather than cut into it, because if a simple incision is employed and if the tumour turns out to be mahgnant, there is a risk of diffusing the cancer-cells over the wound. It is always desirable, in these doubtful cases, to have a skilled pathologist present at the operation who can make a rapid section of the tissue removed and at once determine whether there is any malignant disease ; if so, the operation