AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER 472 that a full-sized instrument cannot be withdrawn from the bladder. In such cases, the only procedure is to perform supra-pubic cystotomy and file off the male blade in the bladder. This accident is more likely to occur in children with large stones, as, owing to the size of the urethra, a small lithotrite must be used. It is an argument against lithotrity in children when the stone is large. The commonest accident to the lithotrite, however, is clogging of the jaws with debris, and the fenestrated female blade (see Fig. 127) has been adopted to avoid this. If the male blade becomes clogged, and it is difficult to screw the instrument home, the best plan is to release the button and convert the instrument into a sliding one, and then to drive the male down into the female blade sharply and repeatedly. Under no circumstances should an attempt be made to withdraw the instrument until the blades are completely closed. It is better to perform supra- FiG. 127.—^the Beak OF A LiTHRoiRiTE WITH FENESTRATED Jaws. deep anjEsthesia and this may not only lead to ejection of the lotion and so to hampering of the working of the instrument, but fragments of stone may become impacted in the urethra and serious trouble may arise. The anaesthesia must therefore be carefully deepened, and in these cases it is advisable to administer scopolamine and morphine prior to the operation, or to employ spinal ansesthesia. Hcemorvhage.—In a carefully performed operation, no bleeding of any moment should occur. Severe haemorrhage is chiefly met with in cases of enlarged prostate or when there is a hard oxalate stone in a contracted and inflamed bladder, and the sharp-pointed fragments injure the mucous membrane. These cases are better treated by supra-pubic cystotomy. Haemorrhage due to damage of the bladder wall by the lithotrite, or to laceration of the urethra in dilating it or in introducing large instruments, should never occur. Lithotomy.—There are three forms of lithotomy: namely—supra-pubic, and median and lateral perineal lithotomy. Of these, the perineal opera- tions—which were at one time universally used—have now fallen almost entirely into disuse, owing chiefly to the greater safety of the supra-pubic operation. The following points in favour of this operation may be mentioned :— pubic cystotomy at once than to try to drag out an imperfectly closed lithotrite through the urethra. Irritability of the blad- der.—In some patients, the bladder is constantly contracting, even under