CANCER OF THE LARYNX 153 operator. Some surgeons use the intravenous administration of hedonal or etlier in these cases, but there is always a great risk of septic dis- charges finding their way into tire lungs during the prolonged recovery period and causing septic pneumonia. Before opening the larynx, tracheotomy should be performed and the trachea blocked by the insertion of a Trendelenburg's or Hahn's canula (see Fig. 21). Hahn's tube is prepared as follows : The tube is hrst boiled, and then a piece of firm flat sponge, which has lain for some days in i in 20 carbolic lotion, is squeezed dry, soaked in a 10 per cent, ethereal solution of iodo- form, and wrapped firmly around the tubing. The opposed surfaces are stitched together and a piece of sterilised tape is finally wound tightly round the sponge so as to compress it. The whole is then dried. The tape is removed before the tube is introduced into the trachea ; it must not be moistened before introduction. Time must be allowed for the sponge to swell after the canula has been introduced into the trachea before proceeding with the operation on the larynx ; five to ten minutes will suffice. , Some surgeons advocate that the tracheotomy should be done some days before the thyrotomy, so that the patient may be relieved of any laryngeal obstruction present, and thus be in a better condition to stand the operation. It is further urged that the trachea becomes accustomed to the tube and that there is thus less coughing and bronchitis, whilst the length of time occupied by the main operation is diminished and the shock is consequently less. We have adopted both plans, and we are in favour of performing the tracheotomy immediately before proceeding to the removal of the disease by thyrotomy. We generally open the trachea at the level of the isthmus of the thyroid gland, which is divided and held apart, an operation intermediate between a high and a low tracheotomv. This leaves sufficient room above for the necessary opei^ation upon the larynx, whilst the trachea is not so deeply situated as in the low operation and the tube is more easily managed. When the operation is divided into two stages, an ordinary tracheotomy tube is introduced at the time, but the opening in the trachea should be made large enough to admit of the insertion of a Hahn's or Trendelenburg's canula at the second operation, as it is not advisable to perform any further cutting operation on the trachea at that time. A median vertical incision is now made, commencing at the upper border of the hyoid bone and ending at the lower border of the cricoid cartilage ; this incision is carried right down to the cartilages. The tissues are dissected off the thyroid cartilage for about half an inch on each side of the middle line and the flaps held aside. A small superficial transverse incision is made in the thyroid cartilage about its centre.