26 AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER drainage tube is inserted, the pressure of the latter causing the arrest of haemorrhage. The cases usually do quite well. Puncture and drainage.—This is the method practised by Sir Patrick Manson and others in cases of true tropical abscess, but it is obviously not suited for multiple or multilocular cases. Its object is to drain the abscess with the least possible disturbance or risk of pus escaping alongside it. The skin is incised, and a large trochar and canula is thrust into the liver, in the same way as the aspirating needle is used (see p. 23). When the pus is struck, the trochar is withdrawn and a piece of drainage tube stretched on a probe, so that it will just pass inside the canula, is pushed into the abscess cavity and the canula withdrawn leaving the stretched tube in situ. As the tube in its stretched state just fits the interior of the canula it also fits the aperture in the liver, and consequently, when the probe is withdrawn and the stretching force relaxed, the liver substance grips the tube tightly and nothing can escape alongside it. Another way of draining these cases is to leave the canula in situ to act as a drainage tube, or to fit it with an inner tube with a rounded end that cannot do any damage (see Fig. 3). If the canula is to be used as a drain, it should be fitted with a sliding collar that can be adjusted so as to shorten the tube as the abscess contracts. Aspiration and injection. — Major Leonard Rogers, I.M.S. {B.M.J., 1902, vol. ii. p. 844), has shown that the amoeba is always present in the abscess wall in the true tropical abscess and that the parasite is quickly killed by strong solutions of quinine. He therefore recommends simple aspiration of the abscess followed by the injection of 20 to 30 grains of sulphate of quinine dissolved—with the aid of dilute sulphuric acid—in from 2 to 5 ounces of water; according to the size of the abscess. Simple aspiration has proved successful in many cases, but is not to be relied upon, presumably because of the presence of active amoebae in the abscess wall; the in- jection of the quinine solution is meant to destroy these ; the method is, of course, useless in the non-amoebic cases. The same surgeon strongly advocates the administrations of large doses of ipecacuanha in the early stages of dysenteric hepatitis, before it is certain that abscess is present. More recently (see B.M.J., Oct. 24, igo8), the same surgeon has advocated a system of continuous siphon drainage combined with daily aspiration and injection of quinine. Fig. 3.— McGavin's wide-bore Canula for Drainage of Liver Ab- scesses. A is the canula into which fits the inner tube, B, with a blunt fenestrated end, E, and two small studs, F, so arranged that the studs fit into the small slots, G, in the outer tube and thus keep the openings, E, opposite the long vertical gaps, C, in the latter. D is a movable collar to allow the length of the drainage tube to be regulated.