154 AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK so as to indicate the proper position for reuniting the two halves at the end of the operation, and the cartilage is then split vertically in the middle line. Should this structure be partially ossified, the crico-thyroid membrane is opened, and the cartilage is split vertically by introducing one blade of a pair of special shears beneath it. in the middle line. The two halves of the cartilage are then retracted and the interior of the larynx is exposed ; should the exposure be insufficient, short transverse incisions may be made in the crico-thyroid and thyro-hyoid membranes. A small piece of sponge fastened to a stout thread, may now be packed into the upper end of the trachea above the Hahn's tube, so as to make still more certain that blood does not get into the trachea, and the further operative procedure is decided on. The decision will depend on the size and situation of the growth, and if this is limited to the larynx and not firmly adherent to the cartilages, an internal operation will suffice. A 10 per cent, solution of cocaine is applied to the mucous membrane and the surface of the growth in order to lessen the haemorrhage and abolish the sensibility of the larynx. An incision is then made through the mucous membrane around the growth and half an inch away from it and carried down to the cartilage. The perichondrium is raised with an elevator and the diseased area removed. Wlren the disease is limited to the vocal cords and has not penetrated to the cartilages, it is not absolutely necessary to strip off the perichon- drium ; but this does no particular harm and makes the result more certain. The bleeding is usually slight and stops on pressure. After it has been arrested, the sponge is removed from above the Hahn's canula, which by this time will have swelled sufficiently to block the trachea, and it is well to leave the canula in position for a few hours until the oozing has stopped. The two halves of the thyroid cartilage must be united accurately by catgut stitches. This is generally easy and there is little tendency to displacement afterwards. The infra-hyoid muscles are next brought together by sutures, the skin incision completely closed, and the patient put back to bed. The Hahn's canula is replaced by an ordinary trache- otomy tube in six or eight hours, and this may be left out after twenty-four hours and the wound allowed to close. Unless the incision involves the arjrtenoids or the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, the patient can swallow well and may be fed by the mouth. It is advisable not to give nourishment by mouth till the day following the operation, and the power of swallowing should be first tested by asking the patient to drink water with the head bent forwards. If none escapes by the tracheotomy wound, liquids may be given. There is often considerable coughing during heahng, but this passes off, and the result is usually satisfactory. The patient may sit up at the end of a week. If any granulations appear in the wound or in the anterior commissure, they should be removed and examined microscopically to determine if there is any recurrence.