AFFECTIONS OF THE PANCREAS 4 around the pancreas. In these cases, too, the diagnosis is extremely difficult. The symptoms may be very acute at the onset, and then subside to some extent, leaving only localised pain and tenderness in the epigastrium ; later on a swelling forms in the region of the pancreas, frequently accompanied by symptoms referable to organs, such as the stomach or the liver, in the immediate neighbourhood; jaundice not being infrequent. The progress of the affection is not so rapid as in either of the preceding varieties and the prognosis is more favourable. TRBATMBilSrT.—This practically always takes the form of an ex- ploratory laparotomy followed by free drainage. In the acuie hcBmorrhagic cases the patient may be so profoundly collapsed when he is seen that an immediate laparotomy would certainly prove fatal. Under these circumstances, it will be well to wait for a short time, employing meanwhile suitable remedies for the shock (see Vol. I. p. Ii8). If the patient rallies, a vertical incision is made through the upper part of the right rectus and the true nature of the case is ascertained. The area of the pancreas is opened up by tearing through the gastro-colic omentum, and a free exit is provided for the inflammatory products by means of large drainage tubes passed down to the pancreas, packed round with gauze, and emerging from the abdominal opening. If the case turns out to be one of gangrenous -pancreatitis, very free exit must be provided for the escape of the sloughs, and it is therefore well to make a counter-opening at the most dependent point, generally in the loin {vide infra). Few patients recover who are the subjects of either the haemorrhagic or gangrenous form of the disease. In a few instances abscesses of the pancreas have been successfully treated by drainage. When the abscess has been reached in the manner described above, it is opened by a small incision after carefull}' packing off the surrounding peritoneal cavity and the pus is mopped up as fast as it escapes. Retro-peritoneal opening of the abscess has been practised through a lumbar incision, but it is very difficult to cut down from the loin directly on to an abscess in the pancreas, more particularly when the diagnosis is as uncertain as it generally is, and the best plan appears to be to open it first from the front, and then ascertain by means of a long probe, or the finger passed into the abscess cavity, whether it projects into the loin, and whether, therefore, it is possible to reach it by a lumbar incision. If this is the case, more satisfactory drainage can be secured by making a counter-opening at the most dependent point ; the end of the probe is cut down upon from behind, and large drainage tubes are inserted, while a single large tube, packed round with gauze, is placed in the anterior opening and emerges through the abdominal incision. When adhesions have formed in front and shut off the general abdominal cavity, the anterior tube and the packing are withdrawn and the wound allowed to heal, while drainage is continued through the posterior opening.