PARAPHIMOSIS 265 Fig. 65.—Reduction of a Paraphimosis. This shows the position oi the fingers behind the oedematous prepuce and also the way in which the thumbs are used to linead the glans back through the constriction. The whole procedure is very more or less deeply ulcerated surface corresponding to the length of time that the paraphimosis has lasted. TREATMENT.—-The prepuce must be drawn forwards, and this can be done fairly easily at an early stage before much oedema has been produced. The patient lies upon his back on a couch, and the surgeon places the fore- and middle fingers of each hand on either side of the organ behind the constriction (see Fig. 66). The thumbs are placed over the glans and gradually press it back through the preputial opening, which is pulled for- ward by the fingers behind it. If there is much oedema, a few punctures may be made with a fine tenotomy-knife in the oedematous fold in front of the con- striction and the fluid allowed to escape, painful, and may require an anaesthetic. The following manoeuvre may be useful in these cases. The penis is encircled from the apex of the glans to the root with a bandage of tape or narrow elastic webbing. This is applied especially firmly around the glans and the oedematous fold and is designed to drive out the fluid from the swollen end of the organ. It is kept on for two or three minutes, when it is quickly removed and the procedure recom- mended above for the reduction of the para- phimosis is carried out as rapidly as possible. The compression diminishes the size of the parts, and in this way the glans may be rapidly thrust back through the preputial ring. When the swelling is very great, and especially when ulceration has occurred, this plan will not succeed, and the constricting band must be divided. The preputial ring is exposed by flexing the glans downwards (see Fig. 67) ; a sharp-pointed, curved bistoury is introduced beneath the ring on each Fig. 67.—How to divide the constriction in Para- phimosis. The glans is well bent down so as to expose the constricting band, which is then nicked in two places, as shown in the figure.