176 AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST glands become infected; it is said that this takes place within six months from the commencement of the growth in the breast. As the disease progresses, the infection spreads along the axillary glands into those in the posterior triangle of the neck and thence down into the mediastinum; it also spreads along the lymphatic vessels over the lower part of the thorax and so into the liver. As the cancer-cells spread towards the axillary glands, they are apt to be arrested in the lymphatics, and this is a very important point to remember because it explains why it is not sufficient to remove the breast and the axillary glands ; the lymphatic channels between the two must also be removed. The cells may be carried along the anterior lymphatic vessels which run towards the exit of the branches of the internal mammary artery and thus pass directly into the thorax and into the sternum itself. They may also pass through the intercostal spaces and infect the pleura directly. Cancer-cells may be carried to distant parts by the blood-stream, and secondary tumours may arise in regions with which there is no direct Ijonphatic connection. It has been estimated that, after a cancer has lasted in the breast for about two years, there will be metastatic deposits in other parts of the body, but much depends upon the malignancy of the particular form of the disease, and probably dissemination takes place much earlier than this in most cases. Symptoms.—A tumour is present in the breast, generally towards the centre, but sometimes near the periphery ; it is seldom larger than a hen's egg—and generally a good deal smaller—of stony hardness and ill-defined outline. In the atrophic form, however, it may be very difficult to find a distinct hard lump, the breast tissue being drawn in from all directions and masking the small growth. In this case the diagnosis must be made by the puckering of the skin, which is generally visible, and by the pursing up of the breast tissue. The skin over the tumour is freely movable in the earliest stages and there is no retraction of the nipple, but, as time goes on, the bands of fibrous tissue which connect the breast with the skin—the ' suspensory ligaments ' of Astley Cooper—become involved in the growth and are pulled upon by the contraction of the fibrous tissue in the tumour, so that before long the latter does not move so freely, and on pushing it to one side, the skin tends to be drawn in or puckered, although it may not be actually infected. As contraction of the growth increases, the skin becomes permanently dimpled. If the tumour is situated near the centre of the gland, the lactiferous ducts also become involved and pulled upon, causing retrac- tion of the nipple ; this is as a rule greater on the side of the nipple on which the tumour is situated. Retraction of the nipple, however, must not be looked upon as a very important sign ; should the tumour be situated at the periphery of the gland, it may not occur for a long time, if at all, whereas, if the tumour is growing very rapidly and very little contraction is taking place, no retraction of the nipple may be met with.