97 TUBERCULOSIS OF THE CERVICAL GLANDS raw surface, is the best treatment. In some of tliese cases, treatment by tubercuHn and vaccines made from the organisms present in the sinuses may be beneficial if used previous to the operation. (b) Operative.—-Two operative procedures are employed—namely, excision and scraping. The aim of excision is to remove not only all the glands enlarged, but also all those in the vicinity of the enlarged mass; to be effectual the operation must be extensive, even in com- paratively limited cases. Scraping, on the other hand, only affects the individual gland or glands that are breaking down; whilst others, that may also be affected, are left untouched. It is no doubt true that the latter may subside when the original suppurating gland has been got rid of, and that the disease may thus be cured ; on the other hand, it is far more likely that they will enlarge rapidly and necessitate a further operation. This method has its uses, but it ranks far below excision in value, and is only to be recommended in rare instances. The method ol excising tuberculous glands in the neck.—The incision will vary according to the extent and situation of the disease and to other circumstances, but it is well to avoid vertical incisions. The great objection to any scar in the neck that is vertical or almost vertical is that it tends to become broad and unsightly as time goes on, and therefore we generally employ curved incisions, which fall into the natural folds of the neck. In the case of the upper part of the anterior triangle the incision com- mences near the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid on a level with the angle of the jaw, and curves downwards and forwards until it ends close to the larynx, about the level of the hyoid bone (see Fig. 23). The line of the incision should follow the normal folds of the skin. The elasticity of the skin allows of enough retraction to get good access to the glands. Should an abscess be present, the incision must be so planned as to include the thinned skin over it in an oval incision. When the glandular area requiring removal is very extensive, and both anterior and posterior triangles are involved, the two curved incisions shown in Fig. 23 are very useful, and give scars that are hardly noticeable. The upper one commences behind the sterno-mastoid nearly on a level with the lobule of the ear, and runs obliquely downwards and forwards along the natural crease of the neck to a point about the level of the top V. H Fig. 23.—Incisions for removal of Tuberculous Glands from the Neck. The upper curved incision is for the clearance of tlie upper part of the anterior triangle ; the lower one for the posterior triangle. The two incisions may be used in conjunction in bad cases.