CARCINOMA be left in the wound at the time of the operation and taken out after twenty-four hours, but the difficulty is to know at what part of the wound to insert it. In several cases, however, in which we have opened up the posterior triangle of the neck, we have done this, but whether with advantage or not we cannot say. If the surgeon feels that the disease has not been satisfactorily removed, it is a proper thing to do, but when a wide margin of healthy tissue has been taken away it seems to be superfluous. After an operation for cancer of the breast, the patient should be advised to report herself to the surgeon at intervals of three months for at least three years, in order that any recurrence may be promptly recognised and treated. The situations which should be specially watched are the posterior triangle of the neck, the area of the operation, the lungs, and the liver. It is important to remember the presence of the omo-hyoid muscle in the posterior triangle, as this structure is apt to become unduly palpable when the fat of the posterior triangle has been removed, and may resemble a recurrent gland. Careful examination will usually make the diagnosis clear, but in any case in which there is any doubt on the matter, it is better to operate and not to wait for the course of events to clear up the diagnosis. In our experience local recurrence is quite rare after the operation described above, and usually if it does take place a second operation is hardly possible. If the recurrent growth is extensively adherent to the ribs it is better to leave it alone, but if only one rib is affected, it is sometimes possible to excise the nodule with the piece of rib involved. This is more easily done when the recurrence is near the sternum, because the pleura is separated from the ribs by the triangularis sterni in this situation. Palliative treatment.—When the case is obviously unsuited for complete removal, the question arises whether anything can be done to relieve the patient, and one important point is whether the breast should be removed even though there is no hope of eradicating the disease. Rapidly growing cancers of the breast left to themselves usually cause intense pain and trouble from the local spread of the disease in the breast and axilla, and if the disease can be taken away completely from this region, the patient will be saved much pain and discomfort, and death from the disease elsewhere may be much easier. In cases of rapidly growing disease, therefore—especially in young women —it may be right to remove the breast and axillary glands freely, even though there may be disease elsewhere. It is questionable, however, whether this is worth while if the skin is actually affected ; in any case, very free removal of the skin should be adopted. Oophorectomy.—Much has been written concerning the value of oophorectomy for inoperable cancer, and, according to the published cases, the immediate effect of the operation has been striking in some cases, the