389 ORGANIC STRICTURE may be due to many other causes besides stricture of the urethra. We shall here only describe the treatment of retention due to organic stricture ; for that caused by congestive and spasmodic stricture, see pp. 395 et seq. The retention of urine in organic stricture is not entirely due to the narrowness of the stricture ; even an extremely tight one will allow some urine to pass. In bad cases, however, inflammation of the urethral mucous membrane in the vicinity is very commonly present, more especially if instruments have been roughly employed, and the result of the inflammatory swelling is to cause complete, though temporary, blocking of the urethral canal. Hence the retention is usually associated with a congestive inflammatory condition in the neighbourhood of the stricture, and frequently also with spasm of the urethral muscles. Unless the distension of the bladder is very ui-gent, the iirst measures should be directed towards the relief of the spasm and congestion ; suppositories containing half a grain of morphine and a quarter of a grain of extract of belladonna should be given, and the patient placed in a hot hip-bath. This will frequently result in spontaneous evacuation of the bladder. If, however, the distension of the bladder is so great that it is obviously necessary to relieve the patient without delay, the surgeon must take more speedy measures to relieve it, and in the first instance must try to pass an instrument through the stricture. The first instrument employed should be a bougie, either soft or firm according to the predilection of the surgeon ; it should not be a catheter. A fine catheter is unduly flexible; and the difficulties of getting it through a tight stricture are almost insuperable ; moreover, the passage of a very fine catheter is of little use for the purpose of evacuating the bladder, as the flow through it is so slow that it may not even keep pace with the secretion of urine and no relief is obtained. The best plan is to dilate the urethra in the first place by means of bougies passed while the patient is under an anaesthetic. For this purpose either Lister's or some form of tapering whip bougie should be used. If a bougie can be passed, the stricture may be quickly dilated up to a No. 4 or 6, and then a catheter of this size should be passed and tied into the bladder for twenty-four hours. This not only evacuates the bladder but produces continuous dilatation and, bv the time the instrument is withdrawn, the patient can micturate naturally and the stricture becomes amenable to intermittent dilatation. When, however, instruments cannot be introduced—and this is especially likely to be the case when false passages are present—some other procedure must be adopted. The surgeon has at his disposal supra-pubic aspiration of the bladder or Cock's perineal section which opens the urethra behind the stricture. Aspiration.—This plan is the simpler, especially if the surgeon is summoned in a hurry at night, as is frequently the case, and has not