SIMPLE ENLARGEMENT 409 organs secondary to this affection ; their nature and degree depend on the amount of obstruction and the length of time that it has lasted. The enlargement of the prostate causes difficulty in evacuating the bladder, and the muscular wall of the organ becomes hypertrophied in order to overcome this. The cavity of the bladder may remain of normal size or becomes larger than usual, whilst the muscular bundles are much hypertrophied, and the condition known as ' fasciculated bladder ' occurs. In this form the hypertrophied muscular bundles stand out promi- nently on the surface of tlie bladder, and between them the mucous membrane is markedly depressed. If the obstruction continues, the mucous membrane in these depressions tends to be forced outwards, and form sacculi, which project from the outer surface of the bladder and communicate with its interior by comparatively small orifices between the muscular bundles—' sacculated bladder.' These are of importance because they may be large and a stone may form in them ; they are lined with mucous membrane, and the submucous tissue is generally considerably thickened. If the obstruction continues unrelieved, the hypertrophy of the bladder ultimately gives way to atrophy and dilatation, so that the organ becomes much distended and thinned, and its surface is smooth and without many fasciculi, although sacculi that have already formed may remain. In advanced cases there may be ulceration of the mucous membrane. If the backward pressure persists, its effects rarely remain limited to the bladder. The ureters dilate, their valvular openings become insufficient, and there is consequent dilatation of the pelvis of the kidney, and a certain amount of hydronephrosis. This may lead to polyuria and nephritis. The pressure also tends to obliterate or flatten the ejaculatory ducts. Sexual desire is more or less lost in the advanced stages, although it may be exaggerated at an early period. The symptoms vary with the degree and nature of the enlargement. Sometimes a prostate which is felt per rectum to be very large may give rise to no appreciable symptoms, whilst, on the other hand, there maybe very severe trouble, even though the organ hardly seems to be enlarged at all. One of the earliest symptoms is increased frequency of micturition ; but this often passes unnoticed, unless it happens to disturb the patient at night, and even then there may be no frequency during the day. It will, however, usually be found on inquiry that the daily frequency is as great as or even more marked than that during the night. A more prominent symptom is an urgent desire to pass water, which cannot be resisted by an effort of the will; moreover, the stream cannot be stopped during the act of micturition. The patient generally notices that urine does not flow immediately he attempts to pass water, and that there is a diminution in the power of projection ; after a time, the stream drops vertically downwards. Micturition takes unduly long, and urine is apt to escape after the patient thinks the act has been^completed.