AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER 36 nearly always formed in the gall-bladder, but occasionally arise in the bile-ducts themselves. Gall-stones are so often met with in the course of other abdominal operations or at post-mortem exajiiinations, without having ever given rise to any symptoms or to any pathological changes in the gall-bladder, that we must conclude that they only cause trouble when they pass into the cystic or common ducts, when they interfere with the escape of bile from the gall-bladder, or when they are associated with cholecystitis (see p. 31). When a stone passes out of the gall-bladder, biliary colic is set up (see p. 37). When a stone is impacted in one of the ducts, it may give rise to very severe symptoms quite apart from any cholecystitis that it may cause. If it is impacted in the cystic duct, the gall-bladder behind it will dilate and may contain pus, bile, or a thin mucoid fluid ; the block usually occurs at the neck of the organ and jaundice is absent. When the stone is impacted in the common duct there is well-marked jaundice, the depth and severity of which will vary with the amount of occlusion that the stone produces. The gall-bladder in these cases is usually not distended, and may even shrink up and almost disappear. The occlusion of the bile-ducts is rarely brought about by the stone entirely filling the duct in which it lies, the final complete blockage being produced by inflam- matory swelling of the muCous membrane. When the stone is impacted in the cystic duct occlusion may be complete. A stone in either of the ducts may pass on into the bowel if small enough ; i^ it is too large to do this, it may eventually ulcerate through the wall of the duct, which becomes adherent to the bowel, and find its way either into the duodenum or the colon, thus giving rise to a fistulous communication between them. The symptoms of biliary colic subside when the gall-stone escapes into the bowel, unless of course other stones are also present; Various complications may occur in connection with gall-stones. Cholecystitis and cholangitis have been already referred to (see Chap. IV.). Adhesion of the gall-bladder or the bile-ducts to surrounding structures is not uncommon, and is often accompanied by stricture or kinking of the pylorus, or intestinal obstruction from kinking of the colon or the duodenum. A rare complication is intestinal obstruction from blockage by a stone that has found its way into the bowel (see Vol. IV. p. 335) ; the arrest of the stone usually occurs at the ileo-caecal valve. Suppura- tion outside the gall-bladder may occur in connection with suppurative cholecystitis or cholangitis ; the abscess forms most commonly in the subphrenic region and a fistula about the umbilicus or in the right hypochondrium may result, or the abscess may burst into the peritoneal cavity. Fistulse may also occur between the gall-bladder or bile-ducts, and the pelvis of the kidney, the bladder, or the vagina. Occasionally the gall-bladder becomes almost obliterated ; at other times it may be