441 VESICAL FISTULA examination of the faecal material in the urine may throw some hght upon the portion of the bowel involved in the fistula; - the contents of the small intestine are fluid, partially digested and contain much bile pigment, while material from the large intestine is fully digested, and the reaction for bile pigment is negative. TREATMENT.—This will be largely determined by the situation of the iistula and the nature of the aifection to which it is due. Of vesico-intestinal fistula.—The conmiunication between the bowel and the bladder should be cut off if possible, otherwise fatal ascending pyelitis and pyelonephritis are very apt to set in. When the iistula is due to extensive mahgnant disease, colostomy with complete division of the bowel is indicated, and will reheve the symptoms considerably, although, since the communication is due to growth, a certain amount of septic discharge will still find its way into the bladder. When the fistula is due to a communication between the appendix or aji appendix abscess and the bladder, it wiU be advisable to open the abdomen, detach and remove the appendix, and then invert and suture the opening into the bladder. If the fistula is non-malignant in origm, and is situated in the small intestine, the ideal operation is to excise the affected loop of bowel and unite the ends, and then detach the excised portion from the bladder and invert and sew up the opening in that organ. Of vesico-vaginal fistula.—In these cases the communication may be either low down on the anterior wall of the vagma or high up and almost in the cervical region. The patient should be placed in the knee- elbow position, which allows the anterior vaginal wall to f aU down and come readily into view when the posterior wall is pulled well up. A good hght and efhcient sponging are essential. In the case of a smaU fistulous openmg on the anterior waU, the principle of the operation is to pare the edges of the orifice as for a cleft palate, and then, separating the mucous membrane of the vagina for some little distance all round, close the aperture in the bladder by interrupted catgut sutures which take up the waU of the bladder just external to the mucous membrane ; outside this, a second row of silkworm-gut stitches should be inserted, uniting the cut edges of the vaginal mucous membrane. There may be considerable difticulty in the operation owing to the presence of much cicatricial tissue, especially when the fistula has followed sloughing after parturition, and it may be necessary, before undertaking the plastic operation, to dilate the vagina by the introduction of large bougies until the parts are sufhciently stretched to enable the fistula to be got at easily. A point of great importance is to avoid injury to the ureters which may he close to the field of operation. Their position should therefore be carefully ascertained, and if there is much cicatrisation it may be necessary to use a Kelly's tube (see p. 496) or a cystoscope, and introduce a m-eteral sound into each ureter in order to render them evident. After the