AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER 576 no marked restlessness, and little or no delirium. Whether the condition follows an operation or not, it maybe eight or ten days before symptoms of uraemia set in ; indeed, twenty-five days have elapsed after the onset of anuria before death took place. Death may occur without any characteristic symptoms of uraemic poisoning, but when they appear, death follows very rapidly. The condition is very different from th^ non-obstructive form of anuria—the ordinary suppression of urine—and is readily diagnosed from it. There the headache, nausea, vomiting, slow pulse, dry tongue, early onset of uraemic convulsions, and the drowsy and semi-delirious condition of the patient sufficientty indicate what has happened. The diagnosis of calculous anuria from other obstructive conditions may be made by the sudden onset, the pain in the kidney, a previous history of renal calculus, and the absence of any other obstructing cause •—such as a tumour in the pelvis. X-ray examination will often show the presence of a stone. TREATMENT. — Of obstructive anuria. —When calculous anuria occurs, the surgeon must either perform nephrotomy, so as to allow the urine to escape from the pelvis of the kidney, or remove the stone from the pelvis of the kidney or the ureter. Hence, the first point is to determine the side affected, and the second to ascertain the seat of the calculus. When nephrectomy has already been performed on one side, it only remains to ascertain where the impaction on the other side has taken place (see p. 571); when the position of the stone has been ascertained, it is removed in the manner already laid down (see p. 572). Frequently, the patient is not in a condition to stand a prolonged operation, and then the only alternative is to perform lumbar nephrotomy and establish a temporary renal fistula. The sooner this is done the better, as otherwise the kidney may not secrete again, and the patient may die in spite of the operation. When the anuria does not follow nephrectomy, the nephrotomy should be done on the side last affected— that is to say, that on which there were symptoms of renal calculus last, for the kidney that has been longest affected may be entirely destroyed. When the patient has recovered from the anuria, the calculus should be removed. When the calculus is situated in the vesical end of the ureter, the stone may perhaps be removed at once, instead of performing nephrotomy ; but, when the patient is in a serious condition, the operation would probably increase the shock so much that the kidney would not secrete again in spite of removal of the stone. Of non-obstructive anuria.—The treatment of this condition is essentially medical; among the. best measures is the hot-air bath. The bed-clothes are arranged over a long cradle, and tucked in every- where, and hot air or steam is conducted beneath them by means