493 METHODS OF EXAMINATION extensively diseased. The method has now fallen into complete disuse, more especially since other methods of ascertaining the activity of the renal function have been so perfected of recent years as to render it unnecessary, even if it were safe. For the methods of emplo5nng the cystoscope, practising pyelo- graphy, and estimating the renal function, see Chap. L., for which we are indebted to the kindness of Mr. Thomson Walker. Examination of the urine often gives much information both as to whether the seat of disease is the kidney or the bladder, and as to which kidney is affected. Hceinaturia.—When of renal origin, the blood is usually intiuiately mixed with the urine, and varies in colour from a smoky tint to a deep porter-like brown. In rupture of the kidne}', however, and in cases of growth in which blood is poured out in large quantities, the tint may be much brighter, but in these cases, the presence of clots in the urine, which may take the form of the calices or pelvis of the kidney, or of the ureter, indicates that the blood comes from those parts ; the expulsion of these clots is frequently accompanied by renal colic. Free renal haematuria of spontaneous origin is most likely to be due to a growth. When it only occurs after exertion, and is moderate in quantity, it may be due to a calculus. In renal tuberculosis, the haema- turia is generally slight, does not depend on exertion, and is generally accompanied by a considerable amount of pus. The diagnosis between hcemorrhage from the bladder and that from the kidney is nowadays generallj' made by means of the cystoscope, by the aid of which the blood is seen issuing in a reddish stream from the ureteral orifice, when it comes from the kidney. When the cystoscope is not available, the diagnosis is facilitated by washing out the bladder; when the blood comes from the kidney, the last washing will be clear and the urine in the bladder will remain so until fresh blood comes down the ureter. When, however, the hfemorrhage comes from the bladder, it will be practically impossible to render the fluid free from the admixture of blood, however frequently the washing is repeated. In free hfematuria of bladder origin, it niav be difficult to render the fluid in the bladder clear enough to enable a distinct view to be obtained with the cystoscope. Further information will be obtained by microscopical examination showing the presence of pieces of tumour or renal casts, parasites—such as distoma haematobium, booklets, etc. Pyuria.—When pus is present in the urine, it is difficult to be sure that it is of renal origin, unless the pus is seen coming from the ureter in a thick muddy stream, or unless clinical symptoms point to the kidney as its source. The presence of renal epithelium will aid the diagnosis ; catheterisation of the ureters will render it certain. Determination ol the side affected.—In most cases, there is no difficulty in coming to a correct conclusion as to the particular kidney