354 AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA be applied to the perineum and the patient confined to bed, the foot of which is elevated. It is very important to warn the patient as to the contagious nature of the discharges, and to urge scrupulous personal cleanliness. The hands should not only be thoroughly washed in water after handling the penis, but they should also be disinfected with i in 20 carbolic solution. Lint, wool, or dressings should be burned immediately they are removed, and care should be taken to prevent the discharges from coming into contact with the clothes or linen ; a gonorrhoea bag should always be worn and should be changed frequently, the old one being burned directly it is removed. These bags may be bought ready made, and should consist of some medicated dressing ; they should have a little salicylic wool placed at the bottom so as to absorb the discharge more readily, and they are best fastened to a band around the waist. From time to time the glans penis should be washed, the prepuce being fully retracted. Local treatment.—Some advocate frequent irrigation of the urethra with warm normal salt solution during the very acute stage, whilst others inject various antiseptics. In our opinion it is better to leave the urethra wholly undisturbed during the few days of the very acute stage. The likelihood of antiseptics doing any good in the way of destroying bacteria is extremely slight at this period and they may cause much irritation. Even the possibility of effectually washing away the dis- charge by unirritating solutions is open to doubt, seeing that the mucous membrane is thrown into somewhat rigid folds during the acute stage and considerable pressure would be required to undo these folds. It is most undesirable at this period to dilate the urethra sufficiently to obliterate these folds, otherwise the discharge will almost certainly be carried down into the posterior urethra. Treatment during the stage of decline.—From the practical pomt of view this is the most important stage, as during it the future of the case is probably decided, and if it is improperly handled, the condition may go on to the chronic form known as gleet, which is very troublesome to cure. It is during this stage that the more vigorous local treatment should be adopted. The general treatment, with regard to hygiene and diet, should be the same as before ; but during this period drugs—such as cubebs, copaiba, and sandal-wood—are of value ; of these, sandal-wood oil is probably the most useful as it causes less gastric irritation than the others. It should be commenced in small doses and should be rapidly increased. During the first day one capsule containing five minims should be given three times a day, and on the following day the dose is doubled ; on the third or fourth day the patient may take 15 to 20 minims, three times a day, if there are no symptoms of gastric disturbance. Salol (see p. 353) is also valuable at this period, and cystopurin and urotropine have been recommended.