TUBERCULOSIS OF THE CERVICAL GLANDS H 2 the mass, exposure and preservation of the spinal accessory nerve, hgature of the jugular vein above and below the mass, if necessary, and complete removal of all fat and glands above the spinal accessory nerve and beneath the upper part of the sterno-mastoid. As much as possible of the fat and glands beneath the muscle lower down should also be removed in one mass ; individual glands should not be dissected out. As is remarked in reference to removal of malignant glands in the neck (see Vol. IV. p. 107), division of the upper end of the sterno-mastoid exposes the region much more thoroughly. This is rarely necessary for tuberculous glands, but when they are very adherent it may liel}) considerably. It is well to bear in mhid that the lowest branch of the facial nerve which runs under the jaw and curves upwards to the angle of the mouth is apt to be adherent to the upper part of the glandular mass, and if this is injured, tliere is paralysis of the depressors of the lower lip. This can hardly be avoided in some cases, but in our experience the paralysis disappears in the course of two or three months. When the mass has been removed, a clean dissection of the anterior triangle and the parts underneath the sterno-mastoid muscle should be seen. In some cases, however, glands are present beneath the vessels, and must also be removed. By proceeding in this methodical manner, the chances of recurrence in the anterior triangle are extremely slight, as all the glands are removed. Recurrence may however take place in the posterior triangle lower down, or anteriorly hi the submaxillary triangle. After the operation has been completed and the vessels tied, the divided platysma and deep fascia should be united by fine catgut sutures and the incision is then stitched up with a fine continuous horsehair suture or with a subcuticular horsehair stitch. If the platysma has been sutured, the skin stitch may be removed at the end of five days, but when a subcuticular stitch has been used it may be left for a week. A drainage tube is unnecessary in man}/ cases, but it is advisable to insert one for twenty-four hours when there is a large cavity left. When simises are present.—These cases are usually septic, and therefore it is well to scrape out the sinuses before beginning the dissection, and then pass down each a piece of sponge soaked hi pure carbolic acid. The incisions should be so planned that the openings of the sinuses are included in elliptical incisions, and care is taken not to cut across the sinus in the course of the operation ; the best way of avoiding this is to pass a probe along the sinus and keep it m position until the entire track has been defined. We have seldom seen infection of the wound occur in these operations; at the same time it is always well to put in a drainage tube for a few days in case infection should have occurred. When a drainage tube is employed, the skin should be perforated behind the sterno-mastoid muscle and the end of the tube brought out there ; this allows the