122 AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK interval between the upper border of the thyroid cartilage and the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. The anterior borders of the sterno-mastoid and the omo-hyoid muscles are exposed, the artery being found in the interval between them ; the upper pole of the gland is a good guide to the artery. The vessel should be ligatured in two places and divided between the ligatures. The ligature should include the large branch distributed to the posterior part of the lateral lobe. Ligature of the Inferior Thyroid Artery.—An incision is made along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid extending upwards from the clavicle. The muscle and the carotid sheath are displaced inwards. The tendon of the omo-hyoid is sought for—this being a good guide to the position of the artery—and the vessel will be found lying on the inner edge of the scalenus anticus. It will be necessary to displace the goitre considerably in order to reach the main branch of the vessel. Thyroidectomy may be preferable when the gland is markedly enlarged, one lobe—^the larger—being removed. The removal of one lobe and partial extirpation of the other should never be done at the same operation. If necessary a second operation may be carried out on the opposite lobe at a later date, and it is hardly necessary to point out that the gland should never be completely removed. The details of the operation are described on p. 107 ; it may be a much more difficult procedure than in the case of a simple goitre, as it is not always easy to displace the firm solid gland, and troublesome bleeding is not unlikely to occur as the veins are often very large. Hence great pains must be taken to reduce the amount of blood lost to a minimum by careful hasmostasis and to complete the operation as quickly as possible. It greatly facilitates the operation if the main vessels are ligatured at an early stage. The question of aucesthesia is a most important one. Whenever possible local anaesthesia by means of a i per cent, solution of novocain should be employed. The chief reason for using local anaesthesia is the hability to sudden death in these patients. If for any reason a general anaesthetic is desirable, ether by the open method is the most suitable. After-treatment.—Plenty of normal saline solution should be administered by the rectum, subcutaneously, or intravenously. Restless- ness must be combated by sedatives and stimulants given as required. A rapid rise in pulse-rate and temperature, sweating and oppression are quite common after the operation and are often very alarming. Sudden attacks of cardiac failure may occur even when the patient is apparently doing well. The operation should be followed by a prolonged period of rest, freedom from mental worry and excitement, and a change to the seaside, or, if preferred, to mountain air.