CHAPTER XXXIX. 408 SIMPLE ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. Simple enlargement of the prostate is common in patients over fifty-five ; it is seldom seen before fifty, and comparatively rarely commences after seventy. Apparently, a considerable number of men over fifty-five are the subjects of the affection, although a comparatively small proportion have symptoms. Simple enlargement of the organ does not necessarily give rise to any symptoms beyond some increase in frequency of micturition, unless the enlargement is irregular in shape, very marked, or in some way interferes with the proper emptying of the bladder. The weight of the prostate may be increased from the normal (about half an ounce) to several ounces. The natui"e of the enlargement varies; in some cases, there is general overgrowth of the fibrous elements and of the glandular tissue. In other cases, the enlargement is local and gives i-ise to definite tumours of the gland; this condition may involve a part or the whole of one lobe, and is frequently spoken of as adenoma of the prostate. The term adenoma is hardly correct, as the enlargements are rarely as completely encapsuled as a true adenoma is ; they are more in the nature of lobular outgrowths from the main body of the prostate to which they are connected by a pedicle. This particular form is the common cause of the so-called enlargement of the middle lobe. The prostatic enlargement is as a rule irregular and may lead to great distortion of the urethra. There is always increase in length of the prostatic urethra, and it is flattened from side to side ; as the prostate enlarges, it pushes its way upwards towards the bladder cavity inside the sphincter vesicae. In some cases, the prostate is only slightly increased in size, and is firm, smooth, and rounded, forming a ring or collar around the neck of the bladder ; to this form, the name ' fibrous enlargement' is applied. It is not very common, but it is a very important condition, as the eftects are severe, and the operation for its removal is often very difficult, and the organ has to be removed piecemeal. Practically nothing is known concerning the etiology of simple enlargement of the prostate. Various important structural changes may occur in the urinary