305 HERNIA TESTIS called for ; the testis should be supported, and the scrotum may be smeared with unguentum hydrarg. or 5 per cent, oleate of mercury. When the gummata are large and extensive they often do not clear up entirely even under prolonged anti-syphilitic treatment. HERNIA TESTIS. By a hernia testis is meant a protrusion of the substance of the organ through an opening in the scrotum after perforation of the tunica albuginea. The term is sometimes applied to a protrusion of the entire testis through an opening in the scrotimi, but it ought strictlj^ to be limited to cases in which the tunica albuginea has given way and allowed the tubular structure of the body of the testis to protrude, and should not be applied to the cases in which the scrotum has sloughed sufficiently to allow the entire testis to be herniated. Hernia testis should not be confounded with the so-called fungus haematodes, which is a fungating malignant testicular growth. A hernia testis may arise from the destruction of the tunica albuginea and the scrotal walls, as a result of the softening of a gumma of the testicle, or from the spread of a gummatous ulcer of the scrotum, which extends in depth until the testicle becomes adherent to its base, and finally the tunica albuginea becomes destroyed and the tubular structure protrudes. More rarely hernia testis may occur in extensive tuberculous disease of the body of the organ. The herniated mass consists of seminal tubules with a large quantity of granulation tissue. It fonns a vascular mass, varj/ing in size from a large pea to a plover's egg, which projects from the scrotum and is some- what constricted at its base, where the aperture in the skin embraces it. It is covered with granulations, and discharges a thin sanious fluid ; occasionally it is in a sloughing condition. TUB ATM EI NT.—In syphilitic cases the treatment is that appro- priate for syphihs (see Vol. I. Chap XI.). In addition, it is well to dust the surface thickly with one part of calomel to three of starch, or equal parts of calomel, oxide of zinc, and starch. This treatment will sometimes bring about cicatrisation of the hernia, and nothing further is needed. In other cases the projection only becomes reduced in size, and in them the remaining mass may be returned into the scrotum when the septic condition has been got rid of. If this is to be done, the best plan is to sponge the surface of the hernia with undiluted carbolic acid, two or three days before the operation, and to disinfect the skin around with i in 20 carbolic solution, and then apply compresses of i in 2000 corrosive sublimate, for twenty-four hours, over the hernia. The patient is anaesthetised and an elliptical incision is made to embrace the cicatricial opening, which is dissected out right down to the herniated mass, after V. X