540 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER out on the skin. The steps of the method are described in connection with ureteral fistula [vide infra). In practice it has to be borne in mind that, if the ureter is injured in the course of a severe abdominal operation, such as hysterectomy, the patient may not be able to stand any elaborate procedure, such as uretero-ureteral anastomosis or uretero-vesical grafting, and it may be necessary to bring out the proximal end of the ureter either into the wound or into the vagina, after applying a ligature to the distal end. The patient is thus left with a fistula, until she is well enough to undergo a more elaborate plastic operation. Nephrectomy.—Nephrectomy is a last resource, and should only be employed as a secondary procedure when the kidney has become dis- organised by ascending septic infection or by hydronephrosis or when the surgeon fails to cure the fistula and the patient insists on having something done to get rid of it. When the ureter is only partially divided, either longitudinally or obliquely, it should be closed by Lembert sutures, and a drainage tube inserted down to the incision, in case extravasation should occur. If the wound be intra-peritoneal, the line of suture should be covered by a fold of peritoneum or by an omental graft ; if it is retro-peritoneal, it may suffice to introduce a tube down to the vicinity of the opening without attempting suture. In the rarer cases in which a portion is cut out of the side of the ureter, an attempt may be made to close the opening by increasing the transverse diameter of the ureter, as is done in pyloroplasty (see Vol. IV.). (b) Of ureteral fistula.—These fistulae may open on to the skin or into the vagina, and may give rise to so much annoyance that operative measures must be undertaken for their cure. There are three forms of operation to choose from—namely, implantation of the divided end of the ureter into the bladder or bowel, or nephrectomy. These operations may also be required for stricture at the lower end of the ureter, when resection of portions of the bladder involves the ureteral orifice, for certain cases of calculus impacted at or near the lower end of the ureter, or for cases of cancer of the uterus or other pelvic organs involving the ureter. Uretero-vesical anastomosis.—This has been done successfully on several occasions. The ureter may be reached either behind or through the peritoneum, or through the vagina. The trans-abdominal extra-peritoneal method.-—This operation may be done in the following manner : The patient is placed in the Trendelen- burg position, a median laparotomy performed, the peritoneum opened, and the intestines retracted. The ureter is then traced down, and its lower end freed and split up for about one centimetre. The bladder is projected in the neighbourhood of the ureteral orifice by means of a sound introduced into it and an incision made about two fingers' breadth above the normal ureteral opening; into this opening the end of the