AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE 400 ani. Hot perineal fomentations or a sitz bath as hot as the patient can bear it, should be used as frequently as possible. If a bath is employed, the patient should sit in it for from half an hour to an hour at a time, the water being renewed as often as may be necessary in order to keep it up to the proper temperature. If these measures do not give relief, half a dozen leeches may be apphed to the perineum, followed by hot boric fomentations and large enemata of hot water (ioo°-io5° F.). The diet should consist of milk, and large quantities of diluent drinks may be given. Alcohol should be avoided, and urethral medication should be stopped. The following mixture may be given :— E Vini antim. .... D\x. Potass, bromidi . . . . gr. xxv. Tinct. hyoscyami .... ^ss. Infus. buchu . . . . adgj. Every three hours. A catheter should not be used unless absolutely necessary; if required, a 4 per cent, solution of novocaine should first be injected into the urethra, and a flexible instrument should be used. Digital examination of the prostate must be avoided as much as possible during the acute stage, but it may be necessary from time to time in order to ascertain if an abscess is forming. If this treatment fails to relieve the symptoms, it wiU probably mean that suppuration is occurring ; this may also be indicated by softening in the prostate when examined per rectum, or, in cases of peri-prostatitis, by swelling in the perineum. As soon as there is definite evidence of suppuration, the abscess should be opened from the perineum ; if left alone, it may burst into the urethra—-which is usually the case with follicular abscesses—or into the rectum, or it may spread towards the perineum or the ischio-rectal fossa. Early operation is necessary in order to prevent the abscess from bursting into the rectum, as serious and protracted suppuration may result if it does so. The abscess should not be opened from the rectum. Operation.—Before opening a prostatic abscess from the perineum, the latter should be shaved and disinfected, and the patient anaesthetised and placed in the lithotomy position. The forefinger of the left hand is introduced into the rectum with the pabnar surface upwards and its tip resting upon the apex of the prostate, or upon any fluctuating spot previously detected. A sharp double-edged knife, such as Cock's (see Fig. no), is then thrust into the median raphe of the perineum about an inch in front of the anus, and pushed steadily onwards towards the tip of the finger in the rectum. The patient should he with the S3miphysis pubis, the umbilicus, and the point of the cliin in the same straight hne, and the long axis of the knife should be kept in this Hne. As soon as its point is felt to enter the capsule of the prostate, the knife is withdrawn.