TUBERCULOUS EPIDIDYMITIS AND ORCHITIS 301 The vessels are now carefully separated by a blunt dissector from the deeper surface of the globus major, and an examination must be made to see whether the body of the testis is healthy ; if it is, the attachment of the globus major to it is divided. If the disease extends into the testicle, wedge-shaped portions of the testicular structure should be excised until all the disease has been removed. The epididymis and the vas deferens are now freed from the other structures of the cord, and the vas is isolated and divided as far up as the internal ring, or still higher if the cord is thickened there. Bleeding points are tied and the incision in the testis is closed by a few fine catgut sutures through the tunica albuginea ; the tunica vaginalis need not be closed. A drainage tube should be inserted at the lower part of the wound for the first forty-eight hours if there is much oozing. The majority of these cases heal without trouble ; occasionally in advanced cases a fistula forms, and this may have to be scraped and treated on ordinary lines. In some cases the sexual functions improve. Casivaiion.-—-This operation is similar to that described for malignant disease (see p. 307). The cord should be divided as high up as possible, and it is well to slit up the external oblique aponeurosis and isolate the vas well up in the abdominal cavity before dividing it. Scraping.—A partial operation of this kind should be limited to cases in which the disease has reached a very advanced stage, or has become generalised, and in wliicli no other operation is thought advisable. It cannot remove all the disease, but it may do good by removing the breaking-down deposit that is giving rise to the abscess or the sinus. Selection of cases.—Until fairly recently, the only question as regards treatment was between non-operative measures and castration, and the view generally held was that castration might be performed quite early in the acute form of the disease, but that in the ordinary chronic cases it should only be done as a last resort. At the present time, however, many of the objections to castration are removed by the operation of epididymectomy, and the patient will probably allow this operation to be performed at a much earher stage than if castration were proposed, and the surgeon should advise it early rather than persist with non-operative measures, seeing that success depends upon the stage at which it is done. Castration is the more effectual operation, when combined with section of the vas high up, and, were it not for certain objections, would be advocated in preference to any other. The objections are chiefly that it is impossible to be sure that the removal of the affected organ will arrest the disease, for, even at an early period, the tuberculosis may have affected the cord and the vesicula seminalis on the same side, and sooner or later the opposite epididymis becomes attacked in most cases. The proportion of cases in which both sides are affected is large. If, therefore, a patient cannot be oftered a reasonable hope that the