AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 366 The back-pressure also leads to dilatation of the ureters and the renal pelvis, and sepsis is very common when the case is of long standing, with the result that pyelitis and suppurative pyelonephritis occur. Death may take place from cystitis, extravasation of urine, pyelitis, or the so-called surgical kidney. Sympioms.—There is steadily increasing difficulty in micturition ; the act takes abnormally long and is often unduly frequent and the patient feels that he does not empty the bladder completely. Urine is apt to collect in the dilated urethra behind the stricture and to trickle through after the act of micturition is complete, so that the clothes are constantly wet and have a strong urinous odour. The forked and twisted stream usually described is not characteristic of stricture, but when it is met with it is usually due to a stricture near the meatus ; when the stricture is situated far back, the urethra in front of the stricture becomes uniformly filled with urine and the stream, though smaller in calibre and less forcible than it should be, is not necessarily forked. When the stricture is tight, there is frequently purulent urethritis or a gleety discharge, particularly in gouty or rheumatic subjects. The diagnosis is made by examining the urethra with instruments; this is also the first step in the treatment. TREATMENT.—This varies in different circumstances. We may divide the cases met with in practice into two great groups, namely: uncomplicated strictures and strictures accompanied by complica- tions. The latter class must be considered according to the various complications present, and we shall divide them into strictures complicated (fl) with false passages ; (6) with cystitis ; (c) with epididymitis ; {d) with retention of urine ; {e) with peri-urethral abscess ; (/) with perineal fistula ; {g) with extravasation of urine. Treatment of uncomplicated, strictures.—These strictures are often divided into two groups, which are termed ' permeable ' and ' impermeable,' according as the surgeon is able to pass an instrument through them or not. Obviously there is no such thing as a complete occlusion of the lumen in uncomplicated cases, because there must be a channel as long as the patient can pass urine. The urethra may be temporarily occluded, however, and, even if not, it may happen—although rarely in skilled hands—that the surgeon is unable, even after many attempts, to pass an instrument through the stricture ; as a rule he will succeed, with patience and care, in the great majority of cases. The only strictures which may be impermeable in the strict sense of the word are those in which perineal fistulee are present and in which urine has not passed through the urethra for a considerable time owing to the greater freedom with which it escapes through the fistulee. The surgeon should always approach a case of uncomplicated stricture with the idea that it is possible to pass an instrument through it. The treatment of simple uncomplicated organic stricture varies