112 AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK this to be necessary, as there is a distinct line of demarcation by fibrous septa between the isthmus and the lobes. The vessels in the isthmus itself are comparatively small, and two or three forceps will suffice to pick up bleeding points. We have contented ourselves, as a rule, with either tearing through the isthmus or the tissues on one side of it. If the operation is done strictly in this manner it is a safe procedure, and, provided that the capsule is not opened until the gland has been cleared and the thin-walled veins ramifying on the surface of the gland are not injured, the profuse bleeding, formerly so common in these operations, is avoided. An additional point of importance is that time is saved. We may recapitulate the keys to the operation in the following order : The separation of the fascia, leaving the front of the capsule of the thyroid clean, clamping and division of the superior thyroid vessels, clamping and division of the inferior thyroid vessels and of the veins close to the lower border of the lobe, separation of the lobe leaving a portion at the lower and back part, and, finally, tearing through the isthmus. As soon as the tumour has been removed, sponges are packed into the large cavity left, the various vessels clafnped are tied with catgut, and the wound is inspected for bleeding points, all of which are seized and tied. It is well at this stage to ask the anaesthetist to make the patient strain ; the act of straining opens up collapsed veins which, if not ligatured, might give rise to serious bleeding after the wound has been closed. The muscles must be replaced, or if they have been divided must be carefully sutured, so that no hollow in the neck is left. We are always in the habit of introducing a drainage tube for one or two days. Although at the time of the operation the bleeding may be absolutely arrested, there is always considerable oozing afterwards into the large cavity in the neck which it is impossible to obliterate by pressure, and the blood-clot may interfere with union, or even cause pressure upon the trachea. The superficial structures detached below the wound are held up, and a small transverse button-hole is made through them just above the sternal notch, of sufficient size to introduce a drainage tube of moderate size (No. 14) A tube is passed in through this opening, and its end should lie beneath the muscles in the lower part of the cavity from which the lobe of the thyroid has been removed. The tube may, if preferred, be brought out through the centre of the incision. It is left in for twenty-four or forty-eight hours. The platj^sma and deep fascia are next united by fine interrupted stitches, and the skin is sutured accurately with a very fine continuous suture or a horse-hair subcuticular one. A suture is passed through the edges of the small drainage tube incision and its ends left long and knotted, so that it can be tied when the tube is removed. The skin sutures are removed on the fourth or fifth day.