AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER 574 vas deferens is pulled downwards and inwards, and the spermatic vessels upwards and outwards. The peritoneum is separated until the external iUac artery is exposed, and this is cleared upwards until the ureter is seen crossing it. The ureter is then raised for two or three inches, brought forward, and steadied on blunt hooks. Two stitches of fine catgut are inserted in the wall of the ureter parallel to each other, and a small incision is made into its lumen between them, a probe is passed down the ureter and the position of the stone ascertained. Special forceps are now substituted for the probe, and the stone seized and extracted partly by them and partly by manipulation. The incision in the ureter is closed by stitches, a small drain inserted for two or three days, the split fibres of the muscles united, and the wound closed. This part of the ureter has also been reached by the sacral and the vaginal routes. The sacral route has now been abandoned and need not be described, but in some cases the vaginal route may be employed with advantage. A vertical incision is made in the anterior cul-de-sac of the vagina, the cervix uteri being dragged forcibly downwards and backwards with a tenaculum so as to make the vaginal roof tense. The bladder is then separated with the finger as far up as the vesico-uterine cul-de-sac, when the ureter containing the stone is exposed. A longi- tudinal incision is made for the removal of the stone, and, after extraction, it is usually unnecessary to suture the ureter ; a few stitches in the vagina, leaving between them space for any leakage of urine, wiU be sufficient. When the stone is impacted in the ureter, where it lies in the it<all of the bladder, it may be removed through the bladder, and this operation may be combined, if necessary, with exposure of the ureter from outside, where it enters its wall. The central incision should be employed, and the anterior wall of the bladder is opened, and, if necessary, the peri- toneum is separated from the bladder until the point of entrance of the ureter into its wall is reached. The stone can be steadied with the finger applied over this point and pushed towards the ureteral orifice. Bougies, or fine forceps, may be introduced into the ureteral orifice, which is gently dilated, and then, with one finger in the bladder and one in the wound, an attempt is made to squeeze the stone out into the bladder, or, at any rate, to protrude it sufficiently to allow it to be seized with forceps and extracted. Should this fail, the orifice of the ureter may be slit up with a probe-pointed bistoury, and a small scoop or curette used to get out the stone. The enlargement of the ureteral orifice must be done carefully, as it is important not to cut completely through the muscular wall of the bladder, and thus allow urine to percolate into the cellular tissue. The obliquity and dilatibility of the canal in the wall of the bladder will usually allow the stone to be extracted through a comparatively small incision. In the female, the urethra is dilated, a Kelly's urethral speculum