AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX 254 After the cartilage has been removed, the pleura, which overlaps the pericardium externally, should be looked for and pushed aside. The pericardium is identified and seized close to the left border of the sternum, and an incision is made through it obhquely downwards and outwards from the edge of that bone. After the pus has escaped, a drainage tube is inserted, care being taken that it does not project into the pericardium further than is necessary to secure drainage, lest injurious pressure be exerted upon the heart. Another method, first suggested by the late Herbert Allingham, is to approach the pericardium from the lowest point between the xiphoid cartilage and the costal cartilages. A vertical incision, some four and a half inches long, is made parallel to, and one inch to the left of, the border of the stermmi with its centre at the lower border of the seventh costal cartilage. The skin and fascia are reflected inwards and outwards, and the abdominal muscles detached from the seventh costal cartilage. The ' costo-xiphoid space,' containing the superior epigastric artery, is then opened up, some of the muscular fibres of the diaphragm being torn through; as the pericardium is distended, it is brought into view quite easily. In order to obtain sufficient room to insert the fingers, two inches of the seventh costal cartilage may be removed. The superior epigastric artery is exposed and held aside, or divided and ligatured, and a portion of the sLxth costal cartilage may be taken away so as to give the surgeon room to introduce his finger into the cavity. A large drainage tube is then inserted so that its end lies just in the pericardial sac. By operating by this method, the pericardiimi is drained at its lowest point and a complete exploration of the cavity can be made. The after-treatment is conducted on general medical and surgical lines, the patient being placed in a sitting posture. CARDIOLYSIS. In cases of aortic disease accompanied by enormous enlargement of the heart [cor bovinitm), and when the parietal and visceral layers of the pericardium are adherent with adhesions between the outer surface of the parietal layer and the adjacent structures, the heart's action may be much interfered with. To relieve the strain on the heart, the operation of cardiolysis has been suggested, and is performed in the following manner ; A large flap is raised, including all the tissues down to the ribs and sternum, the base of the flap being at the right border of the sternum, the upper margin being at the lower border of the third left costal cartilage, and the lower margin along the sixth costal cartilage. The outer extremity of the flap should be over the junction of the fourth and fifth left costal cartilages with their corre- sponding ribs. The portion of the sternum between the lower border