CUT-THROAT 8i to such an extent that the organ may fall back over the aperture of the larynx and lead to death from asphyxia. Wounds involving the air-passages.—Wounds of this kind are much more serious on account of the immediate and remote complica- tions which may follow them. These chiefly arise from haemorrhage, but also from division of important nerves. When the wound of the air-passages runs through or below the thyroid cartilage the oozing is generally free, and there is great risk of rapid asphyxia from the entrance of blood into the air-passages. Should the trachea be completely divided, the risk of asphyxia will be still greater, as the interference with respiration is then due not merely to the entrance of blood, but to actual displacement of the two halves of the trachea. The oesophagus and the recurrent laryngeal nerve are also frequently injured in these cases, and the carotid artery may be divided. Amongst the later cuniplicaiions may be mentioned septic infection of the wound, leading to diffuse cellulitis of the neck extending into the mediastinum, and bronchitis and broncho-pneumonia, the latter being especially apt to occur, as the patient is often in a low state of health at the time of the self-inflicted wound. Among the less frequent sequelce are emphysema of the neck, an aerial fistula, laryngeal stenosis, or paralysis of one vocal cord following division of the recurrent laryngeal nerve. TREATMENT.—^When the air-passages are not implicated.—^The main essentials are to arrest the bleeding, and disinfect and suture the wound. The bleeding is usually slight when the air-passages are not opened, because the incision does not extend deeply. When, however, the wound has been made with a sharp-pointed knife thrust deeply into the neck, there may be serious hemorrhage ; under such circumstances, firm digital pressure must be applied to the bleeding point. The best way to do this is to make an assistant thrast his thumb firmly into the wound over the source of the bleeding, placing the fingers and palm of the hand over the back of the neck, and press strongly backwards. While the pressure is maintained the wound is enlarged or its edges retracted, and aU blood-clot removed. When the bleeding has thus been temporarily checked, the wound is disinfected, and any bleeding from the smaller vessels can be arrested ; if one of the larger trunks is injured, it will be necessary to extend the incision over its course, and the assistant then compresses the vessel above and below the bleeding point, so that a ligattue can be applied on each side of it. In many cases it will be necessary to infuse the patient with saline solution, as the amoimt of blood lost may be very great. This should be carried out immediately the surgeon is satisfied that the compression of the bleeding spot is effectual. The salt solution should be introduced into one of the veins of the arm (see Vol. I. p. 112), and as soon as the canula has been tied into the vein and the infusion started, its adminis- tration should be taken over by an assistant or a nurse, whilst the surgeon