INJURIES 17 It is well to put in enough sutures to bring the ruptured surfaces accurately in contact everywhere, and the repair of the damage is completed by uniting the capsule throughout by a fine continuous catgut stitch. After this the blood is sponged out of the abdomen and a drainage tube is inserted at the most dependent angle of the wound to enable blood and bile to escape ; the rest of the abdominal wall is then sutured, a loose stitch being inserted where the drainage tube passes through it. It will be advisable to complete the last stages of the operation as rapidly as possible owing to the exhausted condition of the patient, and probably careful suture of the abdominal wall in layers will have to be abandoned in favour of a few mattress sutures taking up the peritoneum and muscles together, the skin being united by a continuous stitch. When there is a large lacerated area with extensions in various directions, the bleeding cannot be controlled in this manner, and it will be necessary to have recourse to firm packing of the wound. Attempts may be made to under-run and tie any particularly large bleeding vessels, but this is very difficult owing to the friable nature of the liver tissue, and as a rule the haemorrhage must be controlled by packing strips of gauze as fii mly as possible into every recess of the oozing surface ; the end of the packing is brought out through the abdominal incision. The packing must be firmly applied, and further pressure must be exerted by a large pad of dressing externally. Packing is by no means efficient as there is no firm point to press against, but under these circumstances it is the only thing that can be done. Lacerations of the iinder-siirfacc and posterior border of the liver are very serious, because large vessels in the hilum of the organ are usually torn and the patient often dies before aid can be summoned. Should he live long enough for a laparotomy to be done, and should a large bleeding vessel be foimd, all that is possible as a rule is to clamp the bleeding point and leave the forceps on. as the patient will have lost too much blood to justify any attempt at sewing up the rent in the vessel. The wound nuist be carefully packed with gauze as described above. In cases of penetrating lejounds of the liver by stabs and gunshot wounds the external wound should be disinfected, the abdomen opened, and an attempt made to arrest the haemorrhage. When there is only a small punctured wound in the liver, it may suffice to close it by one or two mattress sutures ; in all cases the abdomen must be opened sufficiently freely to enable the wound of exit to be looked for and treated in a similar manner. In more extensive injuries the arrest of the h;emorrhage is effected on the lines already described {vide supra). Should the patient recover from the eftects of the loss of blood, the prognosis is good. Bile in the abdominal cavity rarely gives rise to peritonitis, provided that it does not proceed from a laceration of the gall-bladder or bile-ducts ; when it does so, it may be contaminated with pathogenic organisms.