CYSTS 173 SARCOMA. From 2 to 8 per cent, of breast tumours belong to the class of sarcomata ; they are most usually of the round-celled or spindle-celled varieties. In the true sarcoma there is no growth of glandular tissue, but occasionally small portions may be found from accidental inclusion. The tumour possesses a spurious capsule and pushes aside and leads to atrophy of the surrounding breast tissue. A good many cases which are diagnosed as sarcomata turn out on examination to belong to the endotheliomata. These growths generally occur in young women, and are seldom met with after the age of thirty. They form rounded tumours which grow rapidly, and may lead to ulceration of the skin over them, and they then fungate through the opening. In the early stages the affection is not easily distinguishable from fibro-adenoma, but the greater rapidity of growth, the rounded form of the tumour, and the tendency to fungate through the skin soon renders the diagnosis certain. In the round- celled variety especially, and in the endotheliomata, the axillary glands may become the seat of secondary deposits. TREATMENT.—The treatment of sarcoma of the breast is early removal of the whole organ. Attempts to save any portion of the gland by removing the tumour and its capsule alone are very likely to be followed by recurrence. The pectoral fascia should be taken away in every case. Even if the tumour is small, the whole breast and the lower set of axillary glands should be excised. When the tumour is large, the operation should be done on the lines laid down for removal of carcinomata (see p. 181). CYSTS. Cystic disease of the breast and cysts in connection with hbro- adenomata have already been described. SIMPLE CYSTS. Occasionally, a cyst is met with in the breast without any tumour being found in connection with it and without any intra-cystic growth ; this is the so-called ' simple serous cyst.' Cysts of this kind are supposed to arise after a localised mastitis which has led to active overgrowth of the epithelium and blocking of the ducts. These cysts generally occur in the substance of the breast and form rounded, tense tumours in which it is seldom easy to get fluctuation on account of the tension of the fluid. They are painless and generally single, but occasionally two or three large cysts may be present as well as a number of small ones. On moving the cysts, the nipple becomes pulled upon owing to the intimate connection of the cyst with the milk-ducts. Sometimes, though very rarely, there may be a little clear discharge from the nipple.