311 HYDROCELE has become completely absorbed, lest a chronic hydrocele should result. Suppwaiion may sometimes occur in acute hydrocele, and is recognised by an increase in the pain and the local symptoms, accompanied by pyrexia ; the tunica vaginalis must be laid open freely as soon as the condition is recognised. The skin is disinfected in the usual manner, a vertical incision is made over the outer and front part of the swelling or over any situation in which the abscess is pointing, and the pus is let out ; a drainage tube is inserted at the most dependent point, and antiseptic dressings are applied, the scrotum being supported as for acute epididymitis (see Fig. 71). Healing is generally complete in about a fortnight. CHRONIC HYDROCELE. The following forms of hydrocele are described, according to the situation of the fluid : liydvocelc of tJie iuiiica vaginalis—the commonest variety ; congenital hydrocele—in which the funicular process is patent from the abdominal cavity to the bottom of the scrotum ; iiifaiitile hydrocele—in which the lower part of the funicular process is unob- literated and communicates with the tunica vaginalis ; and hydrocele of the cord—in which the funicular process is obliterated at the internal ring above and in the neighbourhood of the epididymis below, but open in the middle of its course. There may also be a spermatocele or encysted hvdrocele of the epididymis ; encysted hydrocele of the testis itself—which is generally a collection of fluid beneath the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis ; and cliylous or fatty hydrocele—in which there is a coiumunication with the lymphatic vessels. Occasionally, diffuse hydrocele of the cord is met with ; in this form, the fluid is more or less evenly distributed through the structures of the cord. HYDROCELE OF THE TUNICA VAGHSTALIS.—The tunica vaginalis is distended with a clear, highly albuminous fluid, coagu- lating readily on the addition of red blood corpuscles. It is common in infants ; in adults it is probably associated with some inflammatory affection of the epididymis. It is not uncommon as a complication of gummatous disease of the testis, and is met with in connection with long-standing herni;^. The tunica vaginalis may remain normal in appearance and in thick- ness for a long time, but eventually—especially when attacks of acute inflammation supervene^—it may become thickened and the hydrocele may develop into a haematocele. Adhesions may form between the opposed surfaces of the tunica vaginalis and divide the hydrocele cavity into a number of compartments. The diagnosis of hydrocele is easy, but it nnist be borne in mind that the affection is not infrequently complicated with a hernia, and it