AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE 412 from pain, restlessness, and sleeplessness, and when ordinary palliative measures have failed, the question of radical treatment becomes urgent. While there is no difificulty in deciding in favour of operation in these extreme cases, it is better not to delay it until the condition of the patient has become so unfavourable. When the difficulties in micturition are in- creasing, and when the time is approaching when catheterisation becomes necessary, operation should be advised while the patient's general condition is good. It should also be urged if there have been attacks of retention, if catheterisation is painful or difficult, or if cystitis has occurred. The urine should, however, always be carefully examined before advising operation—especially as regards the question of renal inadequacy ; the specific gravity, the percentage of urea, and the quantity of urine passed in twenty-four hours should be ascertained. Palliative.—In the earliest stage, the enlarged prostate is generally congested, and anything that may increase this condition should be avoided. The diet should be light and non-stimulating, the meals should be regular, and alcohol should be avoided—at most, some light wine may be permitted ; the quantity of fluid taken should be diminished as much as possible without causing concentration of the urine and consequent irritation. No food should be taken for two or three hours before bedtime, and the bowels should be regulated. Exposure to cold and excessive bodily exercise must be avoided. The bladder must not be allowed to become distended, and the patient should not attempt to hold his water, as the troublesome symptoms frequently date from some occasion upon which retention has occurred from want of opportunity of emptying the bladder when it was necessary. The bladder should be emptied regularly at short intervals, and the act should always be performed in the standing position, as the bladder is thus more completely evacuated. Drugs are of little value in reducing the size of the prostate, although ergot is sometimes given. When there is irritability of the bladder, the ordinary vesical sedatives—such as tincture of hyoscyamus in half-dram doses—may be used. If there is decomposition of the urine, urinary antiseptics (see p.' 446) should be employed ; when it is due to the bacillus coli, vaccines may lead to improvement. Many patients derive benefit from a visit to a health-resort—such as Wildbad, Marienbad, or Vichy. Other methods—such as the application of nitrate of silver to the prostatic urethra, injections into the gland, massage, electricity, and mechanical pressure exerted by passing large instruments—have been recommended, but are of little value. Possibly, some good may be derived from the use of X-rays and high-frequency currents. In the second stage—the period marked by definite ' residual urine,' but without cystitis—the bladder should be periodically emptied by a catheter, as the presence of residual urine tends to increase the congestion and is a constant source of danger. The regular withdrawal of residual