CONTUSIONS AND RUPTURES 341 the sloughing which will probably have occurred in the tissues by that time and which renders the repair of the urethra impossible, there is the further difficulty that the ends of the urethra will be firmly imbedded in lymph and cannot be approximated and sutured as they can in a recent case. Moreover, the ends of the urethra themselves are beginning to granulate and will be too soft to hold sutures. For these reasons, we strongly advise that, whenever there is evidence of injury to the urethral wall, and a fortiori when the symptoms point to the latter being torn partially or completely across, an immediate external urethrotomy should be performed and means taken to suture the rent in the urethra. The procedure is carried out as follows :ѥ The patient is ansesthetised, placed in the lithotomy position, and the perineum shaved and disinfected. It is advisable not to empty the bladder immediately before the operation, as the presence of urine in the organ may assist in identifying the proximal end of the torn urethra {vide infra). A median incision is made from the root of the scrotum to within half an inch of the anal orifice and is deepened in the middle line through the contused structures. A full-sized metal bougie is passed down the urethra to the seat of rupture, and its point is then exposed in the perineal wound. The incisions in the soft parts must be free, and the various layers should be divided to the same extent as the skin, so that the state of matters may be seen clearly ; a powerful electric light may be required. The end of the instmment protruding through the torn urethra will lead to the identification of the distal end of the urethra, but if the latter is completely torn across, the recognition of the proximal end is not always easy, as the parts are frequently much obscured by the infiltra- tion of blood. The best plan is to flush out the wound with warm normal saline solution. If the stream of fluid is projected fairly forcibly into the wound, the clots are washed out and the torn proximal end of the urethra may be seen projecting somewhat from the surrounding parts and floating in the fluid. If this manceuvre fails to identify the torn end, no time should be wasted in searching with a probe, but the assistant should make pressure over the bladder above the pubes whilst the surgeon with a probe in his hand watches for the escape of urine from the wound. As the urine escapes, its point of exit can be seen and a probe introduced into the proximal end of the urethra. The next step is to pass a full-sized sterilised red-rubber catheter down through the meatus, and, when the end emerges from the distal end of the urethra, the margins of the proximal end aroimd the probe are seized and steadied in forceps and the point of the catheter is insinuated along the probe into the bladder. When this has been effected, the torn ends are approxi- mated and sutured. When the laceration is irregular, accurate suturing may be impossible ; but even if only two or three stitches can be inserted, the subsequent stricture may be considerably diminished. The