271 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS its way between the glans and the prepuce. The surface of the glans when exposed is congested, and has lost its superficial epithelium in places, and sometimes is ulcerated. When the prepuce cannot be drawn back, the retention of discharge beneath it may give rise to extensive ulceration, ending in gangrene of the prepuce, or in lymphangitis and a general septic infection ; this is most likely to occur when the affection is due to venereal sores. TREATMENT.—When it is possible to draw the prepuce back, all that is necessary is to bathe the parts several times a day with warm boric or i in 6000 sublimate lotion, after which boric lint is tucked between the glans and the prepuce so as to prevent the opposed surfaces from coming into contact, and the prepuce is drawn forwards again. Under this treatment the inflammation will subside in a few days. When, however, the prepuce cannot be retracted, the secretion beneath it must be removed by frequent copious syringing with warm boric lotion. If the prepuce is swollen and lymphangitis is present, the entire organ should also be wrapped up in lint saturated with lead lotion. Under this treatment the swelling and inflammation will generally sul5side, and then circumcision should be performed, especially when the prepuce is tight or long and the attacks of balanitis are of frequent occurrence. When the inflammation persists or increases, the glans must be ex- posed freely, so that the parts may be thoroughly cleansed. The prepuce should be slit up by an incision on the dorsum, but it is better not to perform circumcision at this stage as the wound is septic and an obstinate circular ulcer may occur around the base of the glans. After the prepuce has been slit up, the glans is thoroughly cleansed and boric lint is inserted between the two ; finally the wliole organ is wrapped up in a large boric fomentation which must be frequently renewed. HERPES PROGENITALIS. Herpetic eruptions on the penis and prepuce are not uncommon ; they are often associated with gout and also occasionally with stricture or with granular patches in the urethra. They may cause much distress, as the patient is likely to mistake them for venereal sores. The condition begins with itching beneath the prepuce, on retracting which a typical herpetic patch is found on the glans or the inner surface of the prepuce. The vesicles run together and form a pustule which bursts and leaves a small ulcer sometimes difficult to distinguish from a soft chancre ; the condition may not be noticed until it has lasted for some time, when balanitis may be present and the ulceration consideraVjle. TREATMENT.—The condition readily clears up under the treatment for balanitis [vide supra).