266 AFFECTIONS OF THE PENIS side of the middle line so as to avoid the dorsal vein of the penis, and the constriction is freely divided. The incision should go through the skin and subcutaneous tissues, and the prepuce can then be drawn forward with a little manipulation. After reduction, the question of circumcision will arise, and in most cases this should be done at once, as the condition is very apt to recur, especially in children. When the constriction has been so tight that ulceration has occurred, circumcision is certainly called for, because contraction will follow the healing of the ulceration and the preputial ring will be tighter than before. At the same time it is not always advisable to perform circumcision immediately after the reduction of a paraphimosis. In adults the accident frequently happens as a result of pulhng back the prepuce in a case of balanitis in order to cleanse the glans; if circumcision were done before the balanitis is cured, serious septic mischief might result. In these cases, therefore, it will be best to wait for a few days until the balanitis has disappeared, and then to perform circumcision. CHANCROID OR SOFT SORE. Chancroid is an infective ulceration due to a specific bacillus, and generally occurs on the prepuce or glans penis. The affection is locally infective, and frequently leads to inflammation of the inguinal glands. The result of infection is a local sore, which begins as a pimple a few hours after inoculation ; this rapidly enlarges and ulcerates, and gives rise to other sores in its vicinity which extend rapidly, and may cause considerable loss of substance ; when on the frenum, they may perforate or destroy it; when beneath the prepuce they may give rise to a good deal of oedema and phimosis or parapliimosis, and if no attention is paid to cleanliness, some sloughing of the surface of the wound may occur. The condition is quite distinct from syphilis, but the two diseases may be acquired simultaneously, and the soft sore may ultimately become indurated and secondary symptoms of syphilis develop. This possibility should always be borne in mind. The inguinal glands quickly become infected, and those nearest the genitals enlarge and often suppurate; the suppuration is sub-acute, and is not accompanied by swelling of the surrounding parts—at any rate, in the first instance. Suppuration may occur in one gland after another, so that the illness may be a long and tedious one. When these abscesses are opened or burst spontaneously, the skin is frequently found to be undermined for a considerable distance ; extensive chancroid ulceration may then occur in the groin and takes a long time to heal, and may cause widespread destruction of tissue. The organism causing the chancroid ulceration is said to be purely aerobic—a fact that may