22 AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER deep in the substance of the liver and extends towards the surface. When of any size it generally projects on the convex surface of the right lobe; but it may spread backwards to the area of the liver uncovered by peritoneum, or downwards towards the peritoneal cavity in the neighbour- hood of the stomach. When the pus reaches the convex surface of the liver, as it most commonly does, that organ and the diaphragm become adherent, and there may be pleural effusion ; in progressive cases the pus finds its way through the diaphragm, causing the under-surface of the lung to become adherent to the upper-surface of the former, and in this way the pus may make its way into the lung and be evacuated through the bronchi. Occasionally, the lung does not become adherent, and the abscess bursts into the pleural cavity and an empyema occurs. When the pus finds its way to the surface of the liver where it is uncoverd by peritoneum, the abscess may spread into the abdominal wall. When it points at the lower and front part of the liver, the stomach (in abscess of the left lobe), the duodenum or the colon may become adherent to it and the pus may discharge into the alimentary canal. The symptoms of hepatic abscess are often very obscure. In many cases the abscess occurs in connection with some well-recognised disease, such as dysentery, and its presence may be obscured by this disease and may remain unsuspected for a long time. On the other hand, the liver affection may begin suddenly, and be easily recognised at an early period. The typical symptoms are fever, persistent pain in the right side associated with chilliness or rigors, bulging of the parieties, and progressive loss of weight. In some cases of tropical abscess, however, there may not be sufficient symptoms in the early stages to lead to a correct diagnosis, and cases have occurred in which the abscess has only been found post mortem, although it must have existed for a long time. There are one or two points, however, which, quite apart from the acute inflammatory symptoms, point to the occurrence of a liver abscess. There is a peculiar yellowish, earthy coloration of the conjunctivae, and also of the skin, without true jaundice. The position of the patient is often characteristic ; the tendency is to bend towards the right side, to draw up the right thigh, and to contract the right rectus and other muscles on the right side of the abdomen firmly and permanently. Some authors assert that this position is typical of an abscess situated in the concavity of the liver, whereas when it is on the convexity the tendency is said to be to bend towards the left. Alterations in the shape of the hver are also observed. The organ is in any case somewhat larger than normal, and occasionally irregularity in outline may be made out by percussion or by the X-rays. When there is a large abscess on the convexity of the organ there maybe diffuse bulging in the lower intercostal spaces, and peritoneal crepitations may be heard over it. Tenderness on pressure may be made out, but fluctuation is seldom elicited unless the abscess has become subcutaneous or penetrates the thoracic cavity, when fluctuation may