AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 38o of the point of the instrument than is the passage through the stricture ; moreover, the orifice of the false passage is swollen and gapes. The surgeon can generally tell that the instrument is in a false passage by the fact that it passes well beyond the region of the stricture and yet meets with an obstruction and—if it is a metal instrument—cannot be rotated as it could be were it in the bladder ; the finger in the rectum will feel the tip of the instrument close beneath the rectal wall. If a catheter is used instead of a bougie, the failure to draw off urine also indicates that the instrument is in a false passage. A false passage bleeds freely immediately it is made, but instruments passed very gently along a false passage of some standing do not necessarily excite any bleeding. For the treatment of this complication, see p. 387. Catheter fever is described on p. 414. It has been supposed by some that it is not the actual passage of the instrument through the stricture that gives rise to this condition but its contact with the prostatic urethra, and some surgeons have asserted that in patients who were subject to this complication they have avoided it by not introducing the instru- ments farther than just beyond the stricture. The best prophylactic is to keep the patient in bed for twenty-four hours before instrumentation, and to administer two five-grain doses of quinine shortly before it. After passing an instrument, the patient should be kept in bed, well covered up, and given a large warm drink—such as a pint of weak tea. Epididymitis is a rarer complication of catheterisation, and generally results from direct infection from the urethra when the stricture has been fairly tight and has been split by dilatation. Its treatment is described in Chap. XXVIII. Cases suitable for treatment by dilatation.—The majority of strictures can be treated by dilatation—at any rate, for a time—for, even if the treatment is not curative, it may be required as a preliminary to other operations, such as internal and some forms of external urethrotomy. Ordinary strictures in the vicinity of the bulbous urethra are very suitable for treatment by intermittent dilatation. Those in the penile portion are usually of a more resilient character and should be submitted to operation. A stricture may be said not to be suitable for this method when it is either so rigid as not to become absorbed after prolonged attempts by intermittent dilatation or is so resilient as to relapse each time ; there is then no alternative but to operate. Similarly, cases complicated by numerous false passages, by abscesses or fistulae behind the stricture or by attacks of epididymitis and catheter fever are better submitted to operation. Finally, of course, the so-called impassable forms of stricture are not amenable to dilatation. Urethrotomy.—This is the alternative to treatment by dilatation, and by it is meant division of a stricture either from within (internal urethrotomy), or from without (external urethrotomy).