395 SPASMODIC STRICTURE required, together with incisions along either side of the dorsum of the penis, and free incisions into the abdominal wall. If this is done quite early after the extravasation, the tissues will not be very severely damaged and recovery may occur with very little sloughing. If, however, several hours have elapsed, the sloughing will be extensive. A free exit for the urine from the bladder must also be established, and an immediate external urethrotomy should be done if the patient's condition is at all good. If however the patient is very ill, the opening in the urethra behind the stricture should be identified, if possible, and should be enlarged to allow of the free passage of urine. In these gangrenous cases a catheter should not be tied into the bladder, as cystitis luay be set up and may lead to the death of the patient, whereas by increasing the opening in the urethra the patient will micturate readily through the perineal wound. Even when an external urethro- tomy has been done, an instrument should not be tied in, but the wound left open until the sloughs have separated. In these cases some surgeons prefer to perform Cock's perineal section (see p. 390). This need only be done, however, when it is impossible to identify the opening through which the extravasation has taken place. The wounds should be left open, powdered with iodoform, and stuffed with cyanide gauze. Large boric fomentations should be applied outside and must be changed frequently. When the sloughing is extensive it is an excellent plan to keep the patient in a warm bath until the sloughs have separated, changing the water frequently and maintaining its temperature. SPASMODIC STRICTURE. Complete retention of urine may occur without any organic change in the coats of the urethra and may be caused by reflex spasm of the extrinsic muscles of the urethra from irritation elsewhere ; the mem- branous urethra is practically always the part affected. The condition is frequent after various operations, such 'as those about the anus, perineum, or genital organs. It may also occur after operations elsewhere, especially in hysterical subjects, and spasmodic retention of urine may occur in women without any apparent cause. TREATMENT.—Whatever be the cause of this condition, the treatment is directed on the one hand to the relief of the retention and on the other to allaying the spasm. The best way of allaying spasm is to apply hot fomentations to the pubes and perineum, or to place the patient in a hot bath and give him a morphine suppository. In many cases, however, it is neither possible nor advisable to place the patient in a hot bath, nor is it desirable to wait for the effects of morphine, and there is no objection to relieving the retention at once by means of a catheter. When, however, the cause is hysteria, it is well to employ the