FRACTURE OF THE RIBS 195 is subjected to a crushing force. Fracture of the ribs may also occur from muscular action alone—for example, during parturition. The ribs most frequently fractured are the middle six ; the first three are protected by the clavicle and the thick layers of muscle over them, whilst the last three are so mobile that they readily yield before the pressure. Occasionally, the rib is incompletely fractured, the outer surface alone being broken through ; this is generally a result of indirect violence, and in such cases there is practically no displacement, the fractured ends being held together either by the periosteum or by a few osseous fibres on the inner surface of the bone. When only one rib is fractured, the displacement is slight, unless the bone is broken in more than one place ; in the latter case one fragment may lie inside the other. The symptoms are severe stabbing pain on breathing or coughing, and extreme tenderness on pressure ; in many cases no crepitus can be made out nor can any displacement be found. When crepitus cannot be felt, a fracture may be suspected if pain occurs on compressing the chest from before backwards; if a fracture is present, sharp pain will be felt at the spot at which the bone is broken. Crepitus is often obtained by placing the hand flat upon the suspected area and making the patient breathe deeply or cough. It is never advisable, however, to make serious attempts to obtain crepitus if a fracture of the ribs is suspected ; such cases should be treated as if the diagnosis were certain. Should the ribs be merely bruised, the rest and support afforded by the treat- ment will relieve the pain. An X-ray photo will be of use in doubtful cases. The chief importance of these injuries lies in the complications which may accompany them, and foremost among these are the injuries to the intra-thoracic organs. For example, the pleura may be punctured and the intercostal artery may be torn, and haemorrhage may occur both into the subcutaneous tissues and into the pleural cavity, leading to a hcemo- thorax, or the lung may be punctured and air may escape from it into the pleural cavity—pneumo-thorax; when the latter occurs, it is not un- common for the air to escape through the wound in the parietal pleura also and become diffused in the subcutaneous tissues, giving rise to surgical emphysema. When the fractured ends perforate the lung, there will also be hamoptysis ; this may, however, occur as the result of severe compres- sion of the chest, causing actual contusion of the lung without any direct injury to it by the fractured ends. Other viscera—such as the Iddney, the liver, the spleen, or even the stomach—may be wounded when the lower ribs are the seat of fracture. Among the more remote comphcations are pleurisy, which is not at all uncommon at the seat of the fracture ; pleuro-pneumonia, when the lung has been damaged ; oedema of the lung, which is commonest in old people ; bronchitis, also frequent in old people, especially when they have been previously subject to that affection. It may happen that bronchitis is actually present at the time of o 2