510 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER The introduction of instruments into the ureter has many apphcations in diagnosis. I. Sounding the ureter.—In obstruction of the ureter, it is possible to ascertain the exact position of the obstruction. When a stone is impacted in the ureter, the catheter will be felt to hesitate, and may either pass on or be arrested. On withdrawing the catheter, when it has passed the calculus, it may be felt to drag or even grate. Kelly has introduced wax-tipped bougies, which show scratch-marks caused by rough calcuh. The X-rays have, however, simplified the diagnosis. The passage of a bougie opaque to the X-rays is an important adjunct to the radiography of ureteric calculus. When a doubtful radiographic shadow lies in, or near, the line of the ureter, an opaque bougie is passed up the ureter and another plate obtained. The bougie may be arrested at the calculus, or it may pass alongside it, and the relation of the bougie to the shadow will be seen. 2- Examination of the urines of the two kidneys.—This is one of the greatest advances of the modern surgery of the kidneys. It has two chief applications. When disease of the kidney is known to be present, and there are no symptoms pointing to one kidney, and inspection of the ureteric orifices does not give definite information, catheterisation of the ureters is performed, and each urine examined microscopically, chemically, and bacteriologically. Early tuberculosis of the kidney may be taken as an example when there is a trace of pus, tubercle bacilli, and, perhaps, a history of haematuria, and both ureteric orifices appear normal. Catheterisation of the ureters allows of the necessary examination of the separate urines. The second chief use of ureteral catheterisation is the examination of the second kidney when nephrectomy is proposed. Examination of the unblended urine of the second kidney gives information in regard to the presence of a second kidney, of the presence or absence of disease in the kidney, and of the functional power of the organ. Tuberculosis of the kidney may again be taken as an example. The kidney is known to be tuberculous from symptoms, the presence of tubercle bacilli in the urine, and the discovery of signs of tuberculous disease at the ureteric orifice. Nephrectomy is the recognised treatment if the second kidney is healthy. This information is obtained by examining the urine of the second kidney drawn by the ureteric catheter. The procedure is as follows :— Half an hour before the examination, a large draught of Contrexe- ville water is given. A general anaesthetic is not necessary, unless the patient is nervous or the bladder intensely sensitive. The bladder is very carefully washed, and catheterisation of the ureter of the apparently healthy kidney is performed. The catheter is passed into the renal pelvis, a blunt-nosed catheter being used if it will pass.