REMOVAL OF THE TUBES AND OVARIES 599 taken that it is not injured. Any large vessel which bleeds must be ligatured, and there is not inhequently a good deal of oozing, which may be arrested by packing the cavity temporarily with gauze. After the bleeding has ceased, the gauze is removed, and the layers of peritoneum are sutured so as to close the cavity completely. If oozing is still going on, drainage is provided by placing a tube in the cavity, and the walls of the latter are stitched to the parietal peritoneum at the lower end of the incision before closing the wound. REMOVAL OF THE TUBES AND OVARIES. These operations are undertaken for a number of conditions. It is not uncommon to find a pyosalpinx without any pus outside the tubes ; this condition is usually bilateral, and both tubes must be taken away ; not uncommonly, the symptoms are those of ' acute abdomen,' and are found to be due to an acute inflammation of the tubes and ovaries, or to a pyosalpinx, which had been undiagnosed, and has ruptured and set up an acute peritonitis. The surgeon may also be called upon to operate for a ruptured tubal gestation, and, in operations for tuber- culous peritonitis, the tubes and ovaries may have to be removed. Primary cancer of the Fallopian tubes may also be met with. Whenever possible, one ovary at least should be preserved, or as much of it as possible. In some cases it is possible to remove the tubes and leave the ovaries. The chief difficulty in these operations arises from the presence of septic material in cases of acute ovaritis and salpingitis, and from the presence of adhesions. The parts should be exposed by means of a free incision in the parietes, and the intestines carefully packed away by pads into the upper part of the abdomen before any adhesions are separated. A careful inspection of the state of affairs is then made, and a point selected at which to begin the detachment of the tube and ovary. By means of the fingers and the cautious use of a blunt dissector, the distended tube is gradually separated from the broad ligament, uterus, and rectum, and the floor of the pelvis. Especial care should be taken not to injure the rectum, or to rupture the tube. If the latter accident should happen, the pus must be quickly mopped up as it escapes ; any injury to the rectum is repaired later in the operation. There will be a good deal of oozing during the removal of the inflamed parts, and, in order to see what is being done, the operation area must be kept as dry as possible. The oozing soon ceases after the separation of the tube and ovary, and, when these have been brought out of the wound, the pelvic cavity may be temporarily packed with a long and broad piece of gauze. The pedicle is clamped, and an absorbable hgature of fairly stout catgut is tied around it. It may be necessary to use one or two ligatures, and to secure the pedicle by transfixing it. Any vessels