AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST 172 but they may be multiple, and they vary in size from a hazel-nut to an orange. When they are large they are often lobulated in outline from the presence of cysts. The axillary glands are not enlarged. Fibro- adenomata usually occur towards the periphery of the gland and form small, elastic tumours which are not tender. They often increase somewhat during the menstrual period, and the tumour remains stationary as a rule after reaching a certain size—and indeed in some cases may apparently disappear. TREATMENT.—The only method of treatment is by removal, and it is well in aU cases to recommend that this should be done not because the tumour itself is dan- gerous, but because it may produce deformity if it in- creases in size, whilst its presence is always a source of anxiety to the patient ; further, if seen in the early stage when there is no reli- able history as to its rate of growth, a small sarcoma may easily be mistaken for a fibro-adenoma. The operation is per- fectly simple ; a free incision is made over the growth until the capsule of the tumour is seen, and the tumour can then be readily removed. It is best to remove the capsule as well as the tumour, so as to be absolutely certain that no recurrence will take place, for a fresh tumour may occur in the situation of the old one if it has been shelled out of its capsule. As a rule, the incision should be^ made in a line radiating from the nipple; but, if the tumour is situated in the upper part of the gland —in which situation it is important to avoid scarring—^the growth may be removed by making a crescentic incision along the lower and outer border of the breast, pulling the latter upwards and forwards and enucleating the tumour from behind. When the growth is deeply embedded in the breast, it is well to insert a small drainage tube for a few days after the operation, otherwise blood is apt to collect in the cavity left after its removal and to give rise to a troublesome haematoma. Fig. 44.—Incision for removal of Adenomata in the UPPER HALF OF THE BREAST. This incision leaves an almost imperceptible scar, and any area of the breast can be reached from it.