459 SPASM children from six to ten years old about tea-time, and repeated at eight o'clock at night. If the pupils become dilated after the .first dose, the evening dose should be omitted. (b) When there is incontinence both during the day and the night, any cause of irritation must be removed in the first instance. The further treatment will be very similar to that recommended above, but the bladder must be examined to see whether it has become contracted and if so, the organ should be gradually distended by increasing quantities of warm saline solution. At first a small quantity only can be introduced, but the amount can be gradually increased and, as the bladder becomes dilated, the incontinence will diminish. A good deal of the incontinence during the day is due to excitement, and the child should therefore be guarded against this as much as possible. (c) When the incontinence is due to paralysis ot the bladder it is best treated by administering strychnine, or other suitable spinal tonics, combined with the application of electricity locally {vide supra). The following prescription may be used :— R Liq. atropinae sulphatis . . . . . . HI ss. Liq. strych. hydrochlor. . . . . . . Syrupi . . . . . . . . . 11] xv. Aquam . . . . . . . . . ad 5i- To be given before bed-time, and the dose increased imtil 5ij are being taken. Rhus aromatica (I1\v-xv of the fluid extract) is also useful. SPASM OF THE BLADDER. SPASMODIC MICTURITION. An uncontrollable impulse to pass urine is not uncommon in connection with extreme fright. It may also occur as the result of aftections of the prostatic urethra following masturbation or gonorrhoea ; abnormally acid or concentrated urine may also cause it. As a rule, the spasm only occurs during the day, and this is a very characteristic symptom ; the frequency of micturition varies much. If a sound is passed, the prostatic urethra, and sometimes the urethra and the bladder, will be foimd to be unduly sensitive, TREATMENT.—Mental excitement must be avoided in cases due to a central origin. In other cases the abandonment of sexual excess, combined with a sea voyage or a long holiday in an interesting locality with plenty of physical exercise, will cause the condition to disappear. The cure may be hastened by the administration of bromide of potassium and, later, of quinine and arsenic. The frequent passage of a sound or the irrigation of the prostatic urethra with hot boric lotion may be useful if the case proves obstinate.