MALIGNANT TUMOURS V. II The finger is then suddenly removed from the end of the catheter and the fluid is allowed to escape rapidly, whilst the eye of the catheter is directed towards the trigone, which is the usual seat of these growths. A portion of the tumour may be washed into the eye of the catheter and may be pulled off as the instrument is removed; this can then be examined microscopically. When the introduction of a catheter or sound provokes free bleeding, the presence of a tumour is almost certain. TREATMENT.—This is not very satisfactory, and very often resolves itself into attempts to keep the urine unirritating, combined with the administration of sedatives locally and generally. The haemorrhage may sometimes be kept under control by the use of gallic acid (gr. x), turpentine (nixx), pil. plumbi cum opio (gr. x) or liquid extract of ergot (3]) internally. The last drug, however, must be used with extreme caution, and it is best to reserve it for cases in which the haemorrhage is severe enough to threaten the patient's life, as, owing to the advanced age and exhausted condition of the subjects of malignant tumours of the bladder, serious physiological effects may be produced. The bladder mav also be in-igated with a solution of adrenalin chloride (i in 10,000), which may be injected into the bladder, and left there for a quarter of an hour. Should the haemorrhage persist, or should there be severe cystitis which is beyond control, permanent drainage may be established above the pubes. An opening in this situation also enables the surgeon to investigate the condition of the bladder, and there is less risk of sepsis. Should the tumour be situated on the anterior surface of the bladder, however, the perineal route is the better. Sometimes, however, the patient's condition is so bad that any of the foregoing operations are out of the question, and in that case supra-pubic drainage may be practised. The patient is placed under an anjesthetic, the bladder is distended with three or four ounces of fluid, a small median incision is made just above the symphysis pubis through the skin and superficial fascia, and then a suitably curved large trochar and canula is thrust through the anterior vesical wall backwards and somewhat downwards, just above the symphysis pubis. When the canula has entered the bladder, the trochar is withdrawn, and the canula is fixed in position by tapes and worn for about a week, so that the opening may become estabhshed ; after that time it is removed, and a suitable india-rubber tube, provided with a shield and tube leading into a urinal, is sub- stituted. This small operation is seldom accompanied by bad results, and may be performed with little or no shock to the patient, while it secures permanent and thorough drainage. Operative treatment.—Operations for the removal of malignant growths of the bladder are very disappointing, although temporary freedom from symptoms is sometimes attained ; this does not, however, usually last longer than a few months, and this is only what is to be expected from the difficulty of taking away a sufficient portion of