AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST 164 TREATMEISTT.—In adults, prophylaxis is very important ; the breast should be washed with boric lotion each time after suckhng the child. Attention must be paid to the cleanliness of the linen and to the condition of the mouth and eyes of the infant, and special precau- tions must be taken should any crack or excoriation of the nipple exist (see p. 163). Before suppuration is evident, the breast should be well supported by a breast-bandage in which the turns pass alternately over the opposite shoulder, and around the thorax (see Fig. 42) ; or, if it be very tender, it may be slung up by a large bandana handkerchief, or the special arrange- ment shown in Fig. 43 may be employed. The arm should be fixed to the side, and, in mothers, suckling should be entirely discontinued. Fomentations and the local measures for the relief of acute inflammation Fig. 42.—Breast-bandage. The breast is pulled firmly upwards while a bandage is applied with turns going alternately over the opposite shoulder and round the trunk. should be employed (see Vol. I. p. 4). In children and babies, the breast should be protected by a thick layer of cotton-wool kept in position by means of a breast-bandage, or a large collodion dressing may be applied. When pus has formed-—as will be evident from the oedema and redness of the skin, from the length of time that the inflammation has lasted, or from the presence of fluctuation—the abscess should be opened. It is important that all the recesses of the abscess cavity should be drained, and the patient should be placed under a general anaesthetic for the purpose. A free incision should be made in a line radiating from the nipple, and the finger introduced so as to break down any septa that may cross the abscess cavity ; these are particularly numerous in the breast, as the pus burrows among the ducts and lobules. A large drainage tube should be inserted. It is useless merely to make an incision through the skin at the spot where the abscess is pointing without opening up the