136 AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK method of fixing tlie tracliea is to introduce a sharp hook into it just below the cricoid cartilage and hold up the trachea with it, but the two lateral hooks are better as they not only fix the trachea but also retract the edges of the opening. The knife with its cutting edge upwards is now inserted just below the second ring of the trachea in the middle line and cuts as far upwards as the cricoid cartilage ; immediately the opening is made, its edges are pulled apart by means of the sharp hooks or separated by a tracheotomy dilator. When there is no urgency about the operation—for example, when a preliminary tracheotomy is required in connection with certain operations on the mouth and throat—it is well to arrest all bleeding before the trachea is opened. When, however, it is done for urgent dyspnoea, no attention need be paid to the bleeding until the trachea has been opened and a tube introduced. In these cases the venous oozing is often extremely Fig. 32.—Durham's ' Lobster-tail ' Tracheotomy Tube and Introducer. The lower figure is the inner tube. free and practically uncontrollable owing to the great congestion of the parts, but it will stop almost immediately the trachea has been opened and free respiration has become established. If it does not, the methods mentioned on p. 140 should be adopted. It is important to remember that the trachea may be displaced by various causes, and therefore its exact position must be determined before making the incision in the neck, because the incision must be made over it, otherwise the surgeon may fail to find the trachea at first. Tracheotomy tubes.—Various forms of tracheotomy tubes are employed, of which the best are Parker's (see Fig. 31) and Durham's lobster- tailed tubes (see Fig. 32). Parker's is more suitable for children, while Durham's is best for adults, especially when the low operation is employed, as here Parker's may not be long enough to reach comfortably into the trachea. The older tubes made in the form of a segment of a circle are bad, because the lower end of the tube is apt to press upon the posterior wall of the trachea and cause ulceration, while at the same time its long