AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER 566 eleventh when the twelfth is rudimentary. Excision of the last rib may be necessary in some cases, and greatly facilitates removal of the kidney ; the outer edge of an unduly broad quadratus lumborum may require partial division. The last dorsal and the ilio-hypogastric nerves should be avoided if possible, but, if they must be divided, a portion should be excised in order to prevent the ends being caught in the cicatrix. The fatty capsule of the kidney is exposed in the same manner as in nephropexy (see p. 519). The assistant makes firm pressure from the front, and the kidney is freed from the surrounding structures, so that it can be extruded from the wound. The organ should first be cleared below, and the separation carried forwards until the ureter is reached, when a strand of gauze should be passed behind the ureter and pulled forward so as to kink it and prevent the escape of a small stone downwards during the manipulations. If possible, the kidney should always be brought out of the wound, as it enables it to be much more thoroughly examined, and the removal of the stone is greatly facilitated. This, however, may be impossible, owing to extensive peri-nephritis, and the structure in the hilum may have undergone so much shrinkage as to render traction upon the pedicle dangerous. The pelvis and substance of the kidney must be palpated, and if a stone of any size is present in the pelvis it will be detected and can be cut down upon directly through the wall of the pelvis. If, however, no stone is detected on palpation, the kidney must be incised in order to examine the interior of the organ ; needling is not only of little value but wastes time, because the kidney must always be incised before the operation is completed. While the kidney is being incised, the pedicle should be compressed in order to control the bleeding and prevent any calculus falling into the ureter. The incision should be long enough to admit the finger, and is made a finger's breadth behind the convex border of the kidney, where the anterior branches of the renal artery meet the posterior ones and the vessels are smallest. The incision is deepened into the pelvis of the kidney, the interior of which is examined by the finger introduced through the opening. If the finger fails to detect a stone, the incision in the renal parenchyma is enlarged upwards and downwards so as to lay the pelvis of the kidney freely open, when it will be quite easy to detect any stone or stones present either by sight or by touch. When this is being done the bleeding is very free, but may be controlled by grasping the pedicle firmly; a thorough examination of the various calyces should be made seriatim. Finally, the ureter is examined, first by palpation as far as it can be reached, and subsequently by passing a ureteral sotmd down through the opening in the renal pelvis or the cortex. When there is no obstruction, the sound can generally be introduced readily until the brim of the pelvis is reached, but some manipulation may be required to make it pass this