14 AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER INJURIES OF THE LIVER. CONTUSIONS AND RUPTURES. These injuries are not uncommon ; in fact the liver is the viscus most commonly damaged in crushes or run-over injuries about the upper part of the abdomen. The peritoneal coat of the organ gives way and there is extravasation of blood and bile into the abdominal cavity. This extravasated material tends to collect between the colon and the liver and to pass down towards the right side ; if the extravasation is small in amount and occurs gradually, it may remain limited to that region. The seriousness of the case depends upon the extent and the situation of the injury. When the larger branches of the hepatic vein are torn, the divided vessels remain patent, and free haemorrhage results ; indeed, in many cases the patient is already moribund when first seen. In any case the bleeding is apt to be persistent, probably because the admixture of bile with the blood hinders proper coagulation. The amount of bile which escapes will depend upon whether the large bile-ducts are injured or not. The gall-bladder or the bile-passages are not infrequently lacerated. In severe fractures of the ribs the broken ends of the bone occasionally penetrate the liver substance. Penetrating wounds of this kind are not common, the more usual injuries in connection with a fractured rib being either a simple fissure on the surface of the organ near the anterior margin, a large stellate contusion, or a pulping-up or actual detachment of a portion of the organ. In bad cases death occurs rapidly from a combination of shock and haemorrhage. In all patients that survive long enough to come under the notice of the surgeon there is the intense shock so frequently met with in bad abdominal contusions (see Vol. IV.) and in most cases there will also be the signs of haemorrhage. The symptoms special to the injury of the liver are persistent pain over the organ—also referred to the umbilicus, the xiphoid cartilage, or the right shoulder—and extreme tenderness on palpation over the damaged area ; the liver dullness is generally increased, especially on the right side. There may be bilious vomiting followed by jaundice. As a rule the extravasation of a small amount of bile into the peritoneum is not fatal; but, should this occur in large quantity—as from rupture of the gall-bladder or bile-ducts—it is a serious matter and fatal peritonitis may result ; this is probably due to con- tamination of the bile by the colon bacillus. Should the bleeding stop spontaneously and the patient recover, absorption of the extravasated material may occur or a blood-cyst may form. TRBATMBISTT.—This will be influenced largely by the presence or absence of signs of active htemorrhage. Palliative.—If the bleeding is not marked, palliative measures may suffice. The patient is put to bed with the knees flexed over a pillow