126 AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK likely to occur later on as a result of the inflammatory disturbance about the fracture. THEATMENT.—^The displacement is best reduced by manipulation. The throat is painted with a lo per cent, solution of cocaine, and the fore- finger of one hand is introduced into the pharynx, whilst the other hand, placed outside, manipulates the fragments into position. Should cocaine be insufficient, a general anaesthetic must be given. Although reduction of the deformity is easy, there is great difficulty in keeping the fragments in position. An attempt may be made, by the application of a properly moulded pasteboard or poroplastic collar, to prevent all lateral movements as well as flexion and extension of the neck, and swallowing should be restricted for the first three or four days, food being given entirely per rectum. In addition to this the patient should be kept as much as possible in the upright position. The results thus obtained are very disappointing, and a better method would seem to be to expose the fragments and stitch the ends together through a transverse incision over the seat of the fracture, care being taken not to deepen the incision too far outwards or too low down, as this would endanger the superior laryngeal nerve. This method gives the patient immediate relief from pain and avoids the possibility of subsequent interference with the movements of the larynx as a result of mal-union of the fragments. In a compound fracture, an external opening—such as would be necessary in the above operation—will be beneficial by providing suitable drainage and preventing any oedematous inflammatory swelling. FRACTURES OF THE CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. These fractures are rare, and are produced by causes similar to those which give rise to fracture of the hyoid bone. The injury is very serious, a large proportion of the cases terminating fatally owing to obstruction to respiration consequent on the displacement of the cartilaginous walls of the larynx. If the case is left untreated. Fig. 29.—Butlin's Laryngotomy Canula and Introducer. this obstrUCtion rapidly increases owing to the inflammatory reaction around the part, whilst in any case it may come on later, even when there has been no difficulty in breathing immediately after the accident. TREATMENT.—If there is obstruction to the breathing, it is advis- able to perform laryngotomy at once. A small transverse incision is made