AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS 302 other side will not become affected it may not be easy to persuade him to have castration performed at a sufficiently early period to give a fair prospect of complete recovery, while he may, nevertheless, consent to epididymectomy. In some cases, however, castration is advisable in spite of the objections urged above. It is, for example, the only possible way of checking the disease in acute tuberculosis of the body of the testis, and must then be done as early as possible. It must also be done when there is great pain, especially when the body of the testis is extensively affected. It is also called for in advanced cases in which there is profuse suppuration which is telling upon the patient's health, and it may be required in these cases even though there be disease in the vesiculae seminales and prostate. These remarks apply to unilateral castration ; bilateral castration is a very serious matter. In young patients little effect may be produced by removing both testes, but patients who are getting on in years frequently lose interest in their affairs, become less acute business men, and are lazy, irritable, morose, and in some cases actually become demented or maniacal after double castration. A considerable proportion of these patients ultimately commit suicide. The mental disturbance is attributed by some entirely to the psychical effect of the loss of the testis and the fear of subsequent sterility, and surgeons have tried to deceive patients by introducing artificial substitutes, such as balls of celluloid or silk. Quite apart from the fact that healing does not always occur over these materials and that they may ultimately require removal, these attempts have not met with much success, and practically have been given up. It is generally admitted that the testes, in addition to their generative function, play a very important part in the well-being of the patient —probably, by means of their internal secretion—and it is to the loss of this that the mental effects of double castration are mainly due. There is ample evidence to show that, when the vasa are blocked by inflamma- tion, or divided by operation, and the generative functions are thus abolished, the testes do not waste, nor are the mental effects described above noticed. Further, experiments on dogs seem to show that after the removal of both testes the animal is more susceptible to the tubercle bacillus. Dogs previously injected with testicular fluid resist inoculation with tubercle bacilli, whilst others, not so prepared, succumb. Epididymectomy meets to some extent the objections to the operation of castration. The testis is left, and its internal secretion is therefore not interfered with, so that there is no objection to operation at the earliest possible period, and a similar operation wiU more readily be assented to should the disease reappear on the opposite side. Moreover, there is no need to urge palliative measures in opposition to operative means, such as epididymectomy, because the generative function of the affected testis is destroyed quite early in the disease by the blocking of the vas,