572 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER in the kidney, it should be removed at the time, if it lies above the brim of the pelvis. To do so, means very Httle addition to the time occupied, and the ureter is more easily reached than if the wound were allowed to heal and an attempt made to remove it at a subsequent operation. A comparatively slight extension of the oblique lumbar incision will enable the surgeon to deal with this portion of the ureter satisfactorily. In the first place, an attempt may be made to press the stone upwards into the renal pelvis, and remove it through the opening made for the extraction of the renal calculus. Such attempts should, however, be made very gently so as not to bruise the ureter, and if it is found impossible to push up the stone into the pelvis of the kidney, an opening should be made into the ureter. This incision is made in the long axis and posterior wall of the ureter, just above the stone, and extends down to its upper margin : it should not be made over the stone, as that part of the ureter may be thinned and distended and the stitches might not hold afterwards. The incision in the ureter should be shghtly longer than the stone. The calculus is then squeezed upwards and extracted through the opening, which is then closed by two or three interrupted sutures of fine catgut, taking up the outer coats only, care being taken not to invert the edges of the ureter too much lest stenosis should occur; to prevent this, some surgeons prefer not to insert any stitches in the ureter. As a matter of practice, it is found that when the peritoneum and the abdominal contents fall back into place, the incision in the ureter lies against the posterior wall of the abdomen, and little or no leakage occurs. In any case, a drainage tube should be introduced down to, but not in actual contact with, the ureter, so that any urine which may escape can pass out freely. A probe should always be passed down through the opening in the ureter to see if a second stone is present. If one is found close to the other, it may be got out through the same opening ; if not, its position is located and it may be removed subsequently through a separate incision, unless indeed calculous anuria is present, when it may be advisable to take it away at once (see p. 576). The operation for removal of a stone from the ureter below the brim of the pelvis will vary according to its position, and may be considered under three headings : [a) When the stone lies in the portion of the ureter extending from the brim of the pelvis to about two inches from the bladder ; {b) when it lies in the last two inches of the ureter outside the wall of the bladder ; and (c) when it hes in the portion of the ureter situated in the wall of the bladder. When the stone lies in the portion of the ureter extending from the brim of the pelvis to about iti>o inches from the bladder, a separate incision should be made. There are two routes by which the pelvic part of the ureter can be got at and a stone removed from its interior. The one most generally