407 TUBERCULOUS DISEASE perineum and lead to sinuses, which usually end in urinary fistulse. The condition is very serious and very dilftcult to treat. TREATMENT.—In the early stages, the treatment may be palli- ative. Rest, good hygiene, and the avoidance of sexual excitement, combined with a general tonic treatment, are the main points. The use of instruments should be avoided, as they only irritate the prostatic urethra. When there is an obvious source of infection, as in the epididymis or in the kidney, these tuberculous foci should be removed if possible. This may lead to the cure of the affection, or at least may give relief. When it is obvious that palliative treatment is not succeeding and that suppuration is occurring, the serious risks of allowing the abscess to burst into the rectum must be avoided by evacuating the pus through a perineal incision. In these cases, the median incision already described for acute abscesses will not suffice, as there may be considerable difficulty in reaching the small scattered foci, and a curved incision with its convexity forwards just in front of the anus is the best. A sound is passed into the bladder so as to deline the urethra, and the latter is pulled forwards and the rectum backwards as the wound is deepened, until the levator ani is divided. If the abscess is of any size, it is usually detected at this stage, and the finger passes into a ragged cavity containing pus, which should be scraped out as thoroughly as possible—great care, however, being taken not to scrape through the wall of the urethra or the bladder ; after this has been done, the cavity is packed with iodoformed gauze. A catheter should be tied into the bladder for a week or ten days, and the packing renewed at the end of the second day and subsequently daily for the same length of time. Afterwards, a soft catheter should be passed each time the patient desires to micturate until the wound has healed. Even if all the cheesy material has been scraped out, a sinus may remain for some time, and it may be necessary to open up the wound again and scrape it out. In very obstinate cases of perineal urinary fistula due to this cause, a supra-pubic cystotomy may be performed with advantage so as to stop the flow of urine over the cavity. Excision of the prostate would only be justifiable if the affection could be attacked sufficiently early to enable the whole focus of disease to be removed, and if there were no tuberculous disease elsewhere. Theoretically, of course, this measure is the proper procedure, and it can be fairly easily done tlirough a curved perineal incision. In practice, however, the surgeon will seldom be sufficiently sure that the disease is primary in the prostate to justify operative procedures that would be of little avail if the disease were secondary to genito-urinary tuberculosis elsewhere. When the abscess has burst into the rectum, a perineal incision should be avoided, because a rectal fistula would be almost certain to result. It is better to dilate the anus, enlarge the opening of the abscess into the rectum, and scrape out the cheesy material.