AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 396 other remedies first, and to refrain as long as possible from using a catheter ; should it be necessary to resort to it, a red-rubber Jaques's catheter, sterilised by boiling and passed with all the precautions recommended on p. 374 should be used. The instrument should be a No 8-10 English. As gentle pressure may be necessary to overcome the spasm, a black olivary catheter may have to be employed ; with patience, however, Jaques's instrument can generally be passed. As a rule there is no difficulty in passing the catheter as far as the membranous urethra, but when it reaches the opening in the triangular ligament it becomes arrested by the spasm, which is probably increased for the moment by the contact of the point of the instrument. Steady pressure should be kept up against the obstruction without moving the catheter, and in the majority of cases the spasm will relax and the instrument pass on into the bladder. Occasionally the catheter becomes arrested again in the prostatic portion from spasm at the neck of the the bladder ; in some cases the spasm appears to be entirely in this situation. Steady pressure will usually succeed, whereas twisting or pushing the catheter is apt to increase the spasm. A suppository containing morphine and belladonna should be admin- istered after the bladder has been evacuated, hot fomentations applied over the pubes and perineum, and the patient given hot drinks and kept in bed ; he is usually able to pass water the following morning. If this is not the case, the bladder should be evacuated with a catheter three times a day until the spasmodic condition has passed off; with few exceptions the spasm does not last longer than the second or third day after an operation. Some patients, however, are very nervous and cannot pass water after an operation until they are allowed to stand up or, at any rate, to micturate when upon the hands and knees. The period at which this will be allowed is determined by the nature of the operation. CONGESTIVE STRICTURE. The typical example of this condition is acute retention of urine occurring during the course of gonorrhoea ; it is essentially a combination of congestion of the mucous membrane with spasm of the extrinsic muscles of the urethra. The swollen mucous membrane offers a certain amount of impediment to the passage of urine, and the obstruction is completed by the spasm which is due to the irritation of the inflamma- tory condition. As a rule the spasm subsides easily if the congestive condition can be got rid of. TREATMENT.—In these cases, the passage of an instrument along the urethra is a serious matter and should be avoided if possible, because it increases the irritation and, owing to the congested condition of the mucous membrane, may cause hatmorrhage. The pain and spasm