6oo OPERATIONS UPON THE FEMALE GENITALS which escape this hgature must be separately tied. The tube should be removed close up to its uterine end, and it is often possible to bury the stump after disinfecting it with pure carbolic acid, or cover it with an adjacent portion of peritoneum. If the ovary is healthy it should not be removed. It is generally advisable in these cases to put a drainage tube down to the bottom of the pelvis for forty-eight hours or longer, according to the amount of discharge. The operation for removal of a tuberculous or cancerous Fallopian tube is conducted on similar lines, but in these cases it is not necessary to insert a drain. OPERATION FOR EXTRA-UTERINE FCETATION. When the operation is done before rupture has occurred, it is con- ducted on lines similar to those for the removal of an inflamed tube. More frequently, the surgeon is called upon to deal with the condition when rupture has taken place, and the patient is in a serious condition from loss of blood. Under these circumstances, all the precautions to mitigate the shock must be taken (see Vol. I. p. ii8). The abdomen is rapidly opened below the umbilicus, and the presence of the blood is generally demonstrated by the dark colour seen through the peritoneum. The liquid blood is allowed to escape, and any clots are quickly removed by the hand, which is passed into the pelvic cavity, and the tubes and ovaries examined. The one found to be enlarged is compressed, freed, brought up to the surface, and a clamp placed on the uterine side of the rupture, a second clamp being also placed if necessary on the outer end of the broad ligament, so as to control the haemorrhage temporarily. The broad ligament is then transfixed by a pedicle needle carrying a silk thread, the loop of which is divided, so as to form two ligatures, which are tied so as to secure the vessels in the broad ligament. The Fallopian tube is then removed; and the stump seized in a pair of forceps, which are left on temporarily. The bleeding is thus controlled, and the peri- toneal cavity is then cleared of all fluid blood and clots, especial attention being paid to the lateral regions where the blood is liable to gravitate. Flushing with hot sterilised salt solution is often useful. When the surgeon is satisfied that the peritoneal cavity is clean, the pedicle is again examined to see if there is any oozing. If there is, the bleeding points must be secured ; if not, the forceps are removed, the peritoneal edges of the divided tube stitched together, the pedicle dropped back into the pelvic cavity, and the abdominal incision closed without drainage. It may be advantageous to leave one or two pints of sterilised nonjial salt solution (temp. ioo° F.) in the peritoneal cavity. The opposite tube and ovary should always be examined to see if they are healthy. If not, they should be removed. In some cases the rupture of the tube occurs so close to the uterus