AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST i88 After the bleeding has been satisfactorily dealt with, the wound should be closed. This is often a matter of some difficulty, and if a large amount of skin has been taken away, some form of relaxation suture is usually necessary. Silver wire (23 Birmingham wire gauge) is probably the best material to use, and should be threaded on a Lister's wire needle (see Fig. 54). The wire is flattened into the grooves in the needle and the ends are twisted together tightly so that they lie closely together, and are of the same thickness as the needle. The needle is passed through each flap at some distance from the edge of the wound, and the ends of the wire are grasped with forceps and tightened up until sufficient approximation of the edges of the wound has been obtained ; the wire is kept taut while the ends are bent over each other so as to form a loop and cut off. Several of these sutures are usually required, and it may be necessary to insert some of them temporarily so as to see how the wound will come together in one direction, removing them if it is found that another direction is better ; sometimes it may be found difficult to suture the wound as a line, and it may be better to bring the edges together so as to form a tri-radiate scar. When these sutures have been inserted, the edges of the wound are united with a continuous suture of silk or silkworm-gut. Where the parts are very tight, button sutures are of great service (see Vol. L p. 140). With a little ingenuity and further undermining of the skin it is usually possible to get the edges of the wound together, but in cases in which a large amount of skin has been taken away, especially if the patient is thin, this may not be possible without undue tension. In that case it is well to perform a plastic operation if the condition of the patient permits, turning in flaps preferably from the lower part. The exact form of these flaps will depend on circumstances, but generally they can be obtained from the abdomen. In any case, it is well to close the axillary part of the wound so as to avoid interference with the movements of the arm. It is also of importance to cover in any portion of costal cartilage which has been denuded in the course of the operation, as this form of tissue granulates very slowly, and the wound may remain open a very long time if a piece of cartilage is left exposed at the bottom of it. If, however, only a small area of the thorax cannot be covered, that can be left and skin grafted as soon as it is granulating. It is well to insert a drainage tube in all cases, and this is best done through a separate incision in the skin towards the outer and posterior part of the wound. At the conclusion of the operation, a large dressing should be applied, which should extend well round to the back of the patient and also well below the drainage-tube opening. This may be fastened on with a many-tailed bandage provided with shoulder straps. The arm should be kept at right angles to the body, and supported on a pillow, and may be either rotated upwards, with the hand fastened to the head of the bed, or