32 AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER the pylorus, the duodenum, the transverse colon or the omentum, and there is an increase in the general symptoms, with marked pyrexia and great tenderness on pressure, immobihty of that part of the abdomen and symptoms of localised peritonitis. When the pus finds its way through the wall of the gall-bladder, the abscess may point in the abdominal wall, either below the costal margin or more commonly in the neigh- bourhood of the umbilicus. In other cases the abscess may perforate the bowel or may find its way into the subphrenic region. Hepatic abscess may result from acute cholecystitis. The pus then probably makes its way through the wall of the gall-bladder between it and the liver, and the liver abscess starts from this spot (see Chap. III.). Acute perforation of the gall-bladder may follow acute suppurative cholecystitis, especially when gall-stones are present. The symptoms are much the same as in the preceding condition, and are mainly those of localised peritonitis, followed suddenly by symptoms of perforation and acute general peritonitis. Acute gangrenous cholecystitis is not so common, and is seldom diagnosed before operation. It may complicate gall-stones or follow some specific fever. The symptoms are very severe ; the entire thick- ness of the gall-bladder is affected, its walls become gangrenous, and there is intense peritonitis. The proximity of the bowel to the gall-bladder accounts for the fact that some intestinal obstruction usually occurs in these cases which are not infrequently mistaken for cases of acute obstruction or perforative peritonitis. TREATMElsTT.—The treatment of suppurative cholecystitis is operative, but the exact condition is frequently not diagnosed before operation, which may be undertaken for the removal of gall-stones. The treatment for empyema of the gall-bladder is dealt with in connection with gall-stones (see Chap. V.). The treatment of abscess of the liver is described on p. 23. The treatment of perforation of the gall-bladder or acute gangrenous cholecystitis is immediate laparotomy in the right hypochondriac region, removal of any extravasated bile, excision of the gall-bladder if possible, or if not, free incision into it, followed in either case by efficient drainage (see Chap. V.). NON-SUPPURATIVE CHOLECYSTITIS. This affection usually occurs as a chronic catarrh of the gall-bladder, and may give rise to symptoms closely simulating those of gall-stones ; indeed, it is usually associated with the presence of the latter. It may also occur after typhoid fever or in connection with appendicitis. The gall-bladder contains thick mucus which, in its passage along the cystic duct, gives rise to attacks of colic, often of considerable severity, and it is probable that this condition generally precedes the formation of true gall-stones. As a rule the affection is only diagnosed after operation.