223 INFLAMMATION OF THE PLEURA employed—and it should only be done when the masses of lymph cannot be otherwise removed—sahne solution should be used at a low pressure, and care taken to ensure a free exit for the liquid and the masses of lymph. Digital investigation of the interior of the pleura may also give important information as to the condition of the lungs. The rapidity of escape of the pus is regulated by the linger in the open- ing into the chest, and it is essential to try to get as much expansion of the lung as possible at the time of the operation. This is done by allowing the patient to awake partially from the antesthetic, and then exciting coughing by rubbing the parietal pleura with the finger in the cavity. Every time coughing occurs, air is forced into the lung and leads to its expansion. At the moment the child coughs, the finger is slightly withdrawn from the opening, and a little pus is allowed to escape, and then the finger is pushed in again and plugs the opening during inspiration. This prevents air getting back into the pleural cavity, and the lung may often be made to expand completely in this way.^ If the lung expands fully at the time of the operation and the case is pneumococcal in origin, a short drainage tube just projecting into the pleural cavity will be sufficient. A simple way of ascertaining the correct length of the drainage tube is to bend the tip of a probe at right angles, pass it into the pleural cavity, and draw it back until the point catches against the inner surface of the thoracic wall. The thickness of the thoracic wall from the skin to the parietal pleura is thus ascertained, and a drainage tube a quarter of an inch longer than this will suffice. No lateral holes should be made in the tube, but it is important to cut a semicircle out of one side of its inner end so as to prevent it being blocked when the lung comes against it in expanding. Many special drainage tubes have been introduced, and some form provided with a shield to prevent the tube from slipping into the chest is advisable when prolonged drainage is necessary ; in the first instance, however, all that is required is to cut the tube flush with the skin and secure it to the latter by silkworm-gut stitches, or to pass a safety-pin through the outer end of the tube to prevent if from slipping into the chest. After-treatment.—The discharge is usually free for a few days, and the dressings will require changing twice daily. As the discharge diminishes, the dressings will be changed less frequently ; the case is in fact treated like an ordinary abscess. The stitches fastening in the drainage tube may be removed about the third day, and if further drainage is necessary a tube, provided either with a flange or with a safety-pin run across it to prevent it slipping into the thorax, should be substituted ; the pressure of the dressings outside will prevent the tube slipping out. Irrigation should not be employed, as it is not only useless for the reasons ' If the operation is performed under differential pressure, these manipulations are not required.