589 NEW GROWTHS OF THE KIDNPZY the vena cava ; it may also spread through the capsule and become adherent to the tissues around. The diagnosis of renal tumours is often very difficult, and they have been mistaken even by the most experienced surgeons for tumours of a very different nature—such as retro-nephric sarcomata, enlargements of the liver or the spleen, tumours of the supra-renal body, ovarian tumours, enlargements of the lymphatic glands, faecal accumulations, appendicitic thickenings, malignant tumours of the large intestine, the mesentery, or the omentum, or enlargements of the gall-bladder. The main diagnostic point is that the large intestine is in front of the tumour, which is dull on percussion right back to the spine, and that there is no space behind a renal tumour into which the fingers can be pushed. The enlargement of the kidney, moreover, may be due not to a tumour, but to some other condition—such as stone, tuberculosis, polycystic disease, hydatid cyst, or hydronephrosis. All these points must be inquired into when making the diagnosis. TREATMENT.—When a mahgnant growth of the kidney is sus- pected, an explovatorv incision is justifiable, because malignant disease spreads rapidly, and the chance of successful extirpation soon disappears ; if the enlargement turns out to be due to calculus, movable kidney, or tuberculosis, the discovery of the nature of the case is the best thing for the patient, while if it is due to early malignant disease the earlier it is diagnosed and removed the better. In these cases, either the lumbar or the anterior incision (see p. 590) may be employed. If it is necessary to incise the kidney in order to complete the diagnosis, the organ must be brought out on to the loin before this is done and carefully packed off with gauze. It is essential that no soiling of the wound with material from the kidney should occur, for to cut into malignant disease and allow the cells and juices of the growth to spread over the wound would almost certainly cause dissemination of the disease ; moreover, should there be pas in the kidney it is important to avoid infection of the wound. If the kidney is found to be the seat of malignant disease, the wound in it must be closely stitched up, and fresh instruments and gloves obtained, before proceeding to nephrectomy. The treatment in these cases must be total extirpation of the kidney, and this should be done when the organ is comparatively small and movable. When, however, there is advanced cachexia, and swelling of the lower extremities from pressure on the vena cava, or when the tumour is rapidly growing, as is often the case in young children, it is not worth while performing nephrectomy, because all chance of removing the disease successfully has disappeared. Nephrectomy.—The lumbar operation is not suitable unless the tumour is small, because it gives insufficient room ; when the kidney is large, it is better to use a trans-peritoneal operation through the linea semilunaris or even through the linea alba. This not only allows of