CHAPTER XXIX. 298 TUBERCULOUS EPIDIDYMITIS AND ORCHITIS. Tuberculous disease of the epididymis and testicle is a comparatively common form of genito-urinary tuberculosis. The disease may be primary in the epididymis, but it is often associated with tuberculous disease in other parts of the genito-urinary system. The vesiculae seminales on the affected side become enlarged at an early period, and distinct thickening of the vas deferens may also be present. The early enlargement of the vesiculae seminales is an important diagnostic point, and when this is absent in chronic cases the great probability is that the disease in the epididymis is not of a tuberculous nature. Tuberculous disease of the epididjmiis and testicle may be general or local. The general form occurs in the course of an acute general tuberculosis, and it is not necessary to refer to it. There are two forms of the local disease: the one, an acute form, which may begin in the testicle, and the other, a more chronic form, which commences in the epididjonis and only affects the testicle secondarily. The acute form is quite rare and generally begins with a deposit of tubercles in the inter-tubular tissue of the testicle, which subsequently spreads to the epididymis ; the process rapidly leads to destruction of the testicle. Usually the disease begins in the epididymis ; sometimes its course is quite acute, but more frequently it is chronic from the first. The affection is only limited to the epididymis in the early stages ; the vas soon becomes thickened and the vesiculae seminales enlarged. The prostate also is not infrequently involved, and the disease may spread upwards as an ascending genito-urinary tuberculosis. It is still a matter of dispute as to which portion of the epididymis is first affected ; probably the affection commences most often in the globus minor. The tubercle bacilli may be deposited either in the interior of the spermatic duct or in connection with the vessels around it, and the disease quickly involves the whole epididymis, and extends not only up along the vas, but also into the body of the testis itself. In the testicle the tubercles are first found in the intertubular tissue in