GOlTRE 119 leads to the formation of a dense, hard tumour, which is painless and steadily increases in size. It infiltrates all the surrounding structures if left alone, and may cause severe dyspnoea. TREATMENT.—In the early stages removal of the affected lobe should be undertaken. In the later stages tracheotomy may be necessary to relieve the dyspnoea. It is possible that thyroid extract may be bene- ficial. We have had two cases, probably of this nature, which certainly showed a great improvement after being treated with the extract. EXOPHTHALMIC GOITRE. During the last few years, the surgical treatment of this affection has been undertaken with increasing frequency, and therefore it is necessary to discuss it in some detail. The affection is most common in women between the ages of twenty and forty ; it often comes on after overwork, worry or severe mental shock, and may be associated with uterine or ovarian irregularity. Clinically, the disease may be divided into (a) cases in which the gland was previously healthy and the well-known symptoms develop primarily, and {b) cases in which symptoms of exophthalmic goitre develop secondarily in a gland that has been for some time the seat of parenchymatous changes or of adenomata or cysts. A large number of patients with an ordinary parenchymatous or adenomatous goitre suffer from increased frequency of pulse, palpitation, and even dilatation of the heart, but these are not true cases of exophthalmic goitre and do not follow the course of that disease. Moreover, the gland does not show the changes chai"acteristic of exophthalmic goitre, and therefore great care should be taken not to confuse the two conditions. Exophthalmic goitre has a very definite train of symptoms consisting essentially of palpitations, tachycardia, irregular heart-rhythm, anaemia, fibrillary tremors of the muscles (most marked in the upper extremity and the tongue), protrusion of the eye-balls accompanied by the symptom known as Von Graefe's sign (namely, a lagging behind of the upper eyelid when the patient looks down, so that the sclerotic is visible between the lid and the cornea), and more or less marked enlargement of the thyroid gland accompanied by pulsation, thrills, and bruits about the root of the neck. The enlarged gland is smoother and more doughy than an ordinary goitre. The progress of the disease varies in different patients and is subject to exacerbations and remissions. In a small number of cases the disease becomes arrested either spontaneously or under medical treatment. In the majority it steadily progresses, toxjemia and degenerative changes being the most pronounced features, as indicated by mental excitability, extreme nervousness, low blood-pressure, diarrhoea, albu- minui-ia, and dilatation of the heart. The last sign is one of the