562 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER collapse. The urine is diminished in quantity and may be blood-stained and loaded with urates, and there is often a feeling of scalding in the urethra. The bladder is irritable, and the urine is passed frequently. In some cases, there i* a high temperature and great mental prostration, whilst the kidney and ureter are tender on palpation. Suppression of urine may occur either from blockage of both ureters by stones, or from reflex action caused by the presence of a stone on one side. When the stone reaches the bladder, the attack frequently passes off quite suddenly ; if the calculus becomes impacted in the ureter, the acute pain ceases, and a dull aching in the region of the kidney or the ureter is left behind. Sometimes the stone shps back again into the renal pelvis. HcBmaturia is frequently, but by no means constantly, present. It is comparatively slight in amount, and the blood is usually intimately mixed with the urine, but occasionally clots are passed which have the shape of the ureter or the renal pelvis. The bleeding is aggravated by movement, and diminished by rest. Pus is generally found in the urine on microscopic examination and may be considerable in quantity when there is suppuration in the renal pelvis. The urine as a rule is acid and not offensive, except when there is severe pyelitis. Albuminuria is nearly always met with, but is usually accounted for by the pus present. There is enlargement of the kidney, ascertainable by palpation in a certain number of cases, especially in the later stages when there is suppuration in the renal pelvis. The diagnosis of stone in the kidney is not always easy. The pain may be confounded with that due to lumbar neuralgia, but in the latter case there is usually an entire absence of tenderness over the kidney. Neuralgia of the kidney is often present when the organ is movable ; in this case the absence of any haematuria, and the mobility of the organ will usually clear up the diagnosis. Renal neuralgia, accompanied by hcematuria, may be due to malarial poisoning, and is a source of great difficulty in diagnosis ; examination of the blood, and a considera- tion of the temperature and the history of the patient should, however, lead to a correct diagnosis. Intermittent hydronephrosis may be mistaken for renal cohc, and so may appendicitis, especially the type known as appendicular colic. It is sometimes difficult to diagnose a renal calculus from renal tuberculosis (see p. 556), more especially as deposit of phosphates takes place upon the caseous material in some of the latter cases, so that a sort of stone is actually present. Bihary calcuh may coexist with renal stones. A renal growth is distinguished from renal calculus by the absence of a history of cohc and of pus in the urine, and by the fact that the haematuria is not only profuse but apparently causeless, and is not improved by rest, while the increasing size of the kidney will soon clear up the diagnosis. Renal emboUsm from heart disease has also given rise to difficulty in diagnosis. Paroxysmal renal pain of unknown origin