AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 92 the enlarged gland, while in more advanced cases it may be outside the capsule, and other smaller foci may be present in other parts of the gland which will keep up the inflammation and prevent healing. The best plan is either to apply fomentations, in the first instance, until suppuration has occurred practically throughout the affected gland, as evidenced by free fluctuation, and then to open it, or else to remove the suppurating gland altogether. If an incision is made into a gland supposed to be the seat of suppurative adenitis and if only very little or no pus is found, the best plan is to proceed at once to enucleate the gland and leave a drainage tube in the wound. When opening abscesses in the neck care must be taken not to damage important structures, and it is here that Hilton's method (see Vol. I. p. 28) is particularly applicable ; the parts are always so matted by inflammation that important structures may be injured if the knife is employed to open up the deeper parts. The incision should be small and transverse in direction. Persistent enlargement of glands after an inflammatory attack is not uncommon ; in many cases long continuance of the enlargement indicates a tuberculous infection. TUBERCULOSIS. This is the commonest affection of the cervical glands, and is most frequent in those in the anterior triangle ; the tubercle bacilli probably enter in most cases from the mouth or throat. Although it is probable that the bacilli frequently come from a local source about the tonsil or throat, this does not seem to be the invariable sequence of events. In some cases, at all events, the adenitis which follows a local infection in the mouth or throat is a simple one, and it is probable that the subsequent invasion of tubercle bacilli comes from the blood. For example, an acute inflammation about the throat or mouth may lead to a cervical adenitis, which, not being infected with pyogenic organisms, does not go on to suppuration ; as the primary irritation ceases, the gland becomes smaller. But in a susceptible patient with tubercle bacilli present elsewhere in the body, the bacilli may be deposited in this inflamed and weakened gland, which may again enlarge and become tuberculous. This is also probably the mode of infection of those glands which enlarge after sores on the head. The primary lesions which give rise to enlargement of the glands are very various. Perhaps one of the most frequent is carious teeth, and it has been presumed that the bacilli enter the tissues above the root of the tooth and subsequently reach the glands. Nevertheless, when the tooth is removed the cavity generally heals completely without any tuberculous development—a point in favour of the view just enun-