204 AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX this should be found and removed. The patient should then be kept absolutely at rest in bed, lying on the injured side, and it is important not to employ too vigorous measures to counteract the shock from which the patient always suffers, because the faintness produced by the severity of the injury is valuable in stopping haemorrhage, especially when the lung has been injured ; free haemorrhage from the lung, which might well prove fatal, may recur if stimulants are employed. Leiter's tubes or an ice-bag should be apphed to the affected side of the chest utside the dressing. Ice should be given to suck, and morphine may Oe administered hypodermically. The further steps in the treatment. will be largely influenced by the presence or absence of blood or air in the thoracic cavity. Of wounds of the pleura.—When the hcsmo-thorax or pneumo-thorax is only slight and does not incommode the breathing, the best plan is to close the wound leading into the pleural cavity by fine sutures, and then, after disinfection of the superficial wound, to introduce a small drainage tube into it for a few days, and either leave it open or partly close it by sutures. When there is a rapid formation of hcemo-thorax, it is well to enlarge the wound, clear out the blood, and search for the source of the bleeding. If it comes from an intercostal vessel, it is easy to secure it (see p. 203), but if the bleeding is due to injury of the lung, its arrest is a much more difficult matter (see p. 208). When pneumo-thorax occurs in connection with an external wound, however, it seldom gives rise to serious pressure symptoms, because the air finds its way out through the opening in the thoracic wall and passes into the cellular tissue. Of prolapse of the lung.—Prolapse of the lung through the wall of the thorax is rare, and may occur either at the time of the accident or subsequently. It is most commonly met with in extensive injuries, such as shell-wounds, and is probably due to the glottis being closed at the moment the injury is sustained. The prolapsed portion of the lung becomes caught between the ribs and fixed there, and undergoes considerable congestion from the pressure ; it may ultimately become gangrenous. If the case is seen immediately after the accident, it is only necessary to disinfect the surface of the lung, free it, and return it into the thorax, bringing the skin together over it. If, however, the case is not seen until some time has elapsed and firm adhesions have occurred between the opposed surfaces of the pleura, reduction may be inadvisable. If the prolapsed portion is inflamed or gangrenous, it should be left in situ and allowed to slough off. The process may be hastened by tying a hgature tightly around the base of the prolapsed portion and cutting off the necrotic area. Consecutive hernia—that is to say, a hernia occurring through the seat