561 RENAL CALCULUS A renal stone must be got rid of either by passing along the ureter into the bladder or by a surgical operation, as no attempt to dissolve a fully formed calculus seems to be successful. The stone causes damage to the kidney in several ways. It sets up a chronic nephritis which diminishes the secreting power of the organ, and the inflammation may extend to the capsule and give rise to peri-nephritis with adhesions, or to peri-nephric suppuration. When in the pelvis of the kidney, the stone may block the ureter and give rise to distension of the pelvis and calyces. Occasionally, true hydronephrosis results, but this is rare, as the blockage is usually temporary. A stone may pass into the ureter and block it, in which case it gives rise to distension of the pelvis, and in some cases to complete suppression of urine from reflex action. Sepsis generally occurs after a time, and suppurative pyelitis, pyelonephritis, or pyonephrosis then sets in. A kidney that has long been the seat of stone may be converted into a mere bag of pus containing one or more stones. When suppuration has taken place in the kidney, peri-nephric abscess may follow, and open in the loin and lead to a fistula, while occasionally the stone escapes into the peri-renal tissues and is found in the abscess cavity. The prognosis of renal calculus is therefore very serious and, as a rule, the sooner measures are taken to remove a stone the better it is for the patient. The classical syniploms of uncomplicated cases of renal calculus are pain and haematuria. The pain is fixed and persistent, and may be either a dull aching in the affected loin or a more severe pain, causing the patient to keep the affected side rigid on stooping or moving ; it is aggravated by exercise, and generally subsides on lying down. When there is much pain there is also, as a rule, tenderness on pressure over the affected kidney, with reflected pain down the ureter and into the thigh and testicle on the affected side. The pain may be occasionally referred to the bladder and there may be frequent and painful micturition which may lead to a mistaken diagnosis of vesical calculus. One of the commonest symptoms is an attack of renal colic. A small stone may pass along the ureter without causing much trouble, while a large one may remain in the kidney without giving rise to any marked symptoms. Stones of intermediate size, however, pass into the ureter and there give rise to a series of symptoms known as renal colic. Renal colic is nearly always due to the passage of a calculus, but it may arise from the passage of a clot along the ureter, or even from kinking of that structure in cases of movable kidney. The symptoms of typical renal colic are a sudden attack of violent pain shooting down the course of tlie ureter and felt in the bladder, the groin, and the testicle on the affected side. It is paroxysmal, and often so excruciating that the patient screams and is doubled up by it. In the male, the testicle may be retracted and tender. The attack may be ushered in by a rigor, and is generally accompanied by vomiting or retching, faintness, and V. 00