URETERAL CALCULUS 573 used is very similar to that formerly employed for the extra-peritoneal ligature of the external or common iliac arteries and known as Abernethy's incision. In this operation, the incision commences just outside the internal abdominal ring, and ^runs upwards and outwards parallel to Poupart's ligament for about an inch and a half, and then turns upwards to end an inch or more above and internal to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The three abdominal muscles are divided separately, the transversalis fascia is slit up throughout the length of the wound, and the peritoneum and its subjacent fat are stripped upwards and inwards towards the umbilicus. This exposes the external iliac and part of the common iliac arteries, and the ureter can be identified as it crosses the bifurcation of the latter. Care is required to avoid stripping up the ureter with the peritoneum. When the ureter has been identified, it can be traced upwards or downwards ; it is then steadied by a loop of gauzx' introduced behind it, and the stone extracted in the manner described above (see p. 572). Another method which is specially useful when the stone is low down in the pelvis is to expose the anterior surface of the bladder as for supra-pubic cystotomy, but through an incision more to the affected side than the ordinary central one. The bladder is exposed in the usual manner, and then the peritoneum is stripped backwards from the wall of the abdomen until the brim of the pelvis is reached, when the ureter is seen crossing the ihac vessels, and can be defined and traced upwards or downwards as desired. Either of these incisions will allow the ureter to be exposed from above the brim of the pelvis almost to its insertion in the bladder. In the female, the broad ligament interferes with free manipulation, and the uterine artery and vein will have to be divided between two ligatures. When the calculus is impacted in the lower two or three inches, it may be got at in several ways. The last method described above will often prove quite satisfactory, but some surgeons prefer to make the incision in the middle line or only slightly to one side of it, as in supra-pubic cystotomy, and to open the peritoneum just above the top of the bladder sufficiently to admit the finger, so that the lower portions of the ureters may be palpated, and the position of the stone or stones ascertained ; the opening in the peritoneum is then sewn up, and the operation proceeded with in the manner described above. In the Lancet (1913, vol. i. p. 1578), Mr. Frank Kidd describes an operation by which this portion of the ureter may be reached by a lateral muscle-spHtting operation. The incision is about three inches long, and is situated two fingers' breadth above and parallel to Poupart's ligament, one inch of the incision overlapping the rectus muscle and two inches being situated outside it. The various muscles are split in the direction of their fibres, which run nearly parallel in this situation, the rectus is pulled inwards and the transversalis fascia divided. The