CALCULUS 469 is felt, the instrument is passed on until its beak touches the upper surface of the stone, and then the iithotrite is held firm-ly in the left hand and rotated with the right, so that the beak is turned away from the stone when the jaws are separated, the amount of separation of the blades necessary for grasping the stone being known by the previously ascertained measurements of the calculus. The instrument is then rotated back again so that the open jaws lie over and grasp the stone. The stone now lies in the jaws of the instrument which look directly down on to the base of the bladder. The Iithotrite is then rotated through 180°, so that the beak looks upwards. If the stone has been carefully seized, there will be no resistance in doing this, whereas, if a fold of mucous membrane has been caught between the jaws and the stone, the latter will not move and must be released and caught again. The greatest gentleness must be used in practising this manoeuvre in order to avoid damaging the mucous membrane ; moderate distension of the bladder obliterates the folds of mucous membrane and minimises the risk of this. The jaws of the Iithotrite are now pressed firmly on the stone and locked, and the surgeon commences to crush the stone by a series of quarter-turns of the handle until it is felt to give way. In very hard stones this may require great force, and there may come a time when the operator feels that if more force is used the Iithotrite may give way before the stone. Under these circumstances it is well to screw down the instrument as firmly as possible, and then to wait for a minute or two without attempting to increase the pressure, as it is found that the stone will sometimes fracture spontaneously under a steady strain. As the stone cracks, some fragments fall away from the jaws of the instrument, and the remainder are crushed into small pieces. The fragments fall into the base of the bladder, and in that direction they are felt for by the closed instrument, and the larger portions picked up in the manner described above. The whole operation must be clone methodically, and each fragment must be located separately and grasped with the Iithotrite. By pro- ceeding in this manner, the stone will be reduced to fragments small enough to pass through the evacuating catheter. Just before removing the Iithotrite, it is well to rotate the instrument so that the beak looks up into the cavity of the bladder, and then to separate the blades for half an inch or so, and, raising the handle of the instrument, to press the convexity of the jaws well into the base of the bladder ; this may cause a number of small fragments to fall into the jaws of the instrument, and they can be crushed up still farther. Evacuation should be practised as soon as a considerable proportion of the stone has been reduced to fragments. It is useless to attempt to crush up a large stone into minute fragments before evacuating any portion of it, as the debris gets in the way of the jaws of the instrument