GALL-STONES 49 first few days. The bottle should contain some antiseptic solution, and the end of the tube should be immersed in this so as to prevent sepsis spreading backwards along the tube. The drainage tube should have specially thick walls so that the suture can be tied tightly around it and thus prevent leakage of bile alongside it. The material for suture should be ordinary absorbable catgut. This tiabe will often prevent leakage for at least ten days. Unless there is some permanent obstruction in the bile-passages, the fistula readily closes after the drainage tube has been left out. The method of effecting temporary drainage of the gall-bladder without risk of infecting the peritoneum or soiling the dressings shown in Fig. 12 is an adaptation of Kader's method of perform- ing gastrostomy, and has the additional advantage that the flow of bile ceases as soon as the tube is removed ; another method that requires a special apparatus, but is very effectual in preventing the soiling of the dressings with bile, which is often such an annoyance in these cases, is shown in Fig. 13. After the drainage of the gall-bladder has been arranged for, the remainder of the wound is stitched up by a series of through-and-through stitches taking up the whole thickness of the abdominal wall ; the skin may be united by a con- tinuous suture. Buried sutures should not be employed, as the bile in these cases is seldom aseptic, and they may become infected ; in that case the wound will not heal until they are extruded. The aftev-treatment is simple. Any shock is treated, and the general treatment for abdominal cases is employed (see Vol. IV. p. 209). The drainage of the gall-bladder is maintained for ten days or more, Fig. I—Cholecvstostomv. Drainage n'ithout suturing in a tube. The apparatus figured above is made for us by Mr. C. A. Hoefftcke, and is an adapta- tion of Collier's intestinal drainage apparatus (see Vol. IV. p. 383). The metal tube, A, is provided with a crown of hooks, which engage in the mucous membrane of the gall-bladder. The cuff, C, of the rubber tube, B, is turned down over it when it is in position and grips its lower edge firmly, making a water-tight drain through the tube D. The entire apparatus comes away in a week or ten days. The figures i, 3, 3 denote the stages of the introduction of the tube.