5i6 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER kidney are completely surrounded by peritoneum, so that there is a distinct mesonephron ; in the great majority of cases, however, there is no true mesonephron, although the pedicle becomes elongated and the peritoneum invests the kidney more completely than usual. The affection is at least six times as common in women as in men. The right kidney is more frequently affected than the left, and this has been explained by the fact that the lower edge of the liver helps to retain the right kidney in position, and that when the latter is pressed downwards as a result of tight lacing or a sudden strain, it is, so to speak, dislocated from under the edge of the liver and does not return to its proper position. Movable kidney is often found in patients who are very thin and have recently lost flesh, and those who hold that the fatty capsule is one of the chief agents in keeping the kidney in position look upon the absorption of the fat in the capsule of the kidney which occurs in connection with general emaciation as one of the chief causes of undue mobility. Mobility of the kidney may follow pregnancy, partly as the result of the distension of the abdomen and the subsequent laxity of its walls, and possibly partly from violent contractions of the abdominal wall during delivery. In many instances, no doubt, the immediate cause of the mobility—or, at any rate, of the patient noticing it—is some injury, such as a blow or some sudden violent exertion, and in these cases it is generally assumed that some dislocation of the kidney has occurred. The mobility of the kidney may occur alone or may be associated with other troubles, especially that known as enieropiosis (see Vol. IV. Chap. XXXII). Enteroptosis is often present to a marked degree, and in these cases the abnormal descent of the kidney appears to be only a part of the general laxity of the abdominal viscera. The association of movable kid- ney with enteroptosis is of great importance in connection with treatment, because many of the symptoms may be due to the condition of the general abdominal contents rather than to the mobility of the kidney, and an operation which merely fixes the latter may in no way relieve them. The frequency with which these conditions are associated is variously estimated by different writers. Glenard, who first described enteroptosis, holds that practically all cases of mobility of the kidney are associated with it. Other authors, on the contrary, while admitting the frequent conjunction of the two conditions, do not look upon them as being in 'any way necessarily combined, and we not infrequently meet with cases of movable kidney in which there is no noticeable enteroptosis. Important changes may occur in the kidney as a result of the undue mobihty, although in many cases a movable kidney is quite healthy. Perhaps the most frequent condition is intermittent hydronephrosis. In consequence of the undue mobility, the ureter becomes bent or kinked, so that obstruction to the escape of urine and consequent distension of the pelvis and calyces of the kidney may occur from time to time ; this distension is intermittent, considerable intervals often