AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER 532 4. When there is haemorrhage and extravasation of urine in the loin. 5. When there is laceration of the peritoneum and extravasation of blood and urine into the abdominal cavity. 6. When peri-renal suppuration occurs. In recent cases.—It is important not to persevere too long with expectant treatment or to be deceived by the small amount of blood escaping from the bladder, and thus overlook an accumulation of blood and urine in the loin or in the peritoneal cavity. Exposure of the kidney, in order to ascertain the nature of the trouble and remedy it, is not a very serious operation ; if intervention is delayed until the patient is almost moribund from loss of blood, from peritonitis, or from peri-renal cellulitis, a good result cannot be looked for. Hence, whenever the surgeon has reason to believe that extravasation of urine is occurring or that active haemorrhage is going on in spite of treatment, the kidney should be exposed without delay. Except in the cases in which there is reason to believe that extravasa- tion is taking place into the general peritoneal cavity, the exploration of the kidney should be made through the loin by an oblique incision (see p. 565) ; as it is necessary in these cases to explore and clear out the whole region around the kidney, the deeper muscles should be separated to the same extent as the skin-wound, so as to expose the whole field of operation. When this region has been exposed, the further steps will depend upon what is found. In most cases the capsule will be torn and blood and urine will be extravasated into the loin, and therefore blood-clot and, possibly, urine will be found around the kidney as soon as the peri-renal fat has been opened up. This must be cleared out and, if free bleeding is going on, the pedicle of the kidney should be grasped between the fingers of the left hand, and its vessels compressed ; this compression should be entrusted to an assistant, so that the surgeon has both hands free, and then the clearing out of clots and the examination of the kidney can be proceeded with. Any vessel bleeding outside the kidney is clamped, and the organ is isolated and brought out into the wound if it is not too much torn ; this must be done very carefully otherwise the laceration of the kidney may be increased. The subsequent treatment will depend upon the nature of the lesion found, and the main question will be whether the kidney can be saved or whether nephrectomy is necessary. Nephrectomy is indicated when the kidney has been so damaged that the patient, apart from the risk of haemorrhage and suppuration, wiU be left with a kidney that is useless to him if he recovers ; this is very likely to be the case when the damage is great and extends into the pelvis or the upper part of the ureter. Nephrectomy may also be necessary when the bleeding comes from one of the main arteries, ligature of which would probably mean sloughing of a portion of the kidney, and it will also be called for in the great majority of cases in which