595 Q 2 2 APPENDIX. OPERATIONS ON THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS WHICH MAY BE FOUND NECESSARY IN THE COURSE OF AN ORDINARY LAPAROTOMY. It frequently happens that a surgeon has to perform laparotomy when the exact diagnosis has not been made, or when more is found than was expected; in women, some affection of tlie genital organs may be found in addition to tlie other troubles, and this ought to be dealt with at once. For example, an operation for an acute abdominal condition may be undertaken, and, when the peritoneal cavity has been opened, the source of the trouble may be found in the Fallopian tubes. Again, in operating for chronic appendicitis, it is not uncommon to find that there is coexisting trouble in the ovary or tube, and that it is necessary to remove these structures. Surgeons may also have to deal with a ruptured ectopic gestation or ovarian cyst, and, in the course of other operations, fibroids of the uterus may be found, which ought to be dealt with at the same time. We shall therefore describe in this chapter the essential points in the operative treatment of those diseases peculiar to women which are most often met with in abdominal work and must be dealt with at the same operation. The preliminary treatment of the patient, the preparations for a laparotomy, and the method of opening and closing the abdomen, have been fully described in Vol. IV. pp. 208-226. The remarks made there are applicable to these operations, but certain special points must be noted. When trouble in the female pelvis is suspected, the incision should be made to one side of the median fine, so as to open the sheath of the rectus muscle, which is then split in the direction of its fibres. The incision is made below the umbilicus, and can be enlarged upwards to any desired extent. In dividing the peritoneum, at the lower end of the incision, care must be taken that the bladder is not damaged; it should always have been emptied just before the operation, and, as it may be displaced considerably upwards, it is always advisable to open