CONTUSIONS AND RUPTURES 343 distance is to pass the catheter on until the urine flows freely and then to withdraw it slowly until the flow of urine just ceases ; the instrument is then pushed back a quarter of an inch and tied in position. This will leave the eye just within the neck of the bladder. In all cases it is best to leave the perineal wound open ; a small drainage tube should be introduced through it down to the rupture in the urethra, and the wound lightly packed with iodoform gauze for two or three days. The sides of the wound fall together when the legs are placed in the horizontal position and tied together, and there is no necessity for stitches ; indeed, the insertion of sutures in this situation might lead to septic infiltration. A large antiseptic dressing is applied over the perineum, and the catheter, which is tied into the bladder (see p. 342), Fig. 91.—A method of tying a Catheter into the Bladder. The figure shows how the tapes are arranged around the abdomen and thighs, and the threads are attached to them. is fitted with india-rubber tubing, and the end of this is carried into a basin of boric or carbolic lotion ; in this way continuous drainage is insured. The practice of plugging the catheter and occasionally re- moving the plug for the purpose of emptying the bladder is not good, as urine is apt to escape alongside the instrument as the bladder fills up. Afier-ii-eaimeni.—The catheter is left undisturbed for about four days, when it is removed and a fresh, carefully sterilised instrument is sub- stituted. This should be of a somewhat smaller size ; if a No. 12 instru- ment has been employed in the first instance, the next size introduced should be a No. 10, and this should be kept in position for two days, when it is removed and another instrument of the same size substituted. For the first fortnight it is well to keep a catheter constantly in the bladder, but after that time the patient may be allowed to micturate naturally, and an instrument should be passed every three days to prevent contiaction.