ABSCESS 33 occasionally be detected in one of the intercostal spaces. The heart is generally displaced upwards and to the left. Some fever is almost always present in the early stages, but may be absent in the chronic cases ; in the very acute form it is high from the commencement. In the chronic cases it is often irregular, and not very high, while in malarial subjects it is of a more malarial type ; rigors may be present. There is generally a persistent and increasing leucocytosis. When the suppuration is in the left lobe or in the smaller lobes on the concavity, obstinate vomiting is frequently noticed. From a practical point of view the chief point of importance, after the diagnosis of the presence of an abscess has been made, is its situation. The following points may be mentioned. When the abscess is on the convexity there are symptoms affecting the thoracic organs, such as increased dullness upwards, difficulty or pain on respiration, pain in the right shoulder, projection of the lower ribs and possibly fluctuation. When the abscess is situated in the centre of the organ, there are, in addition to the ordinary inflammatory symptoms, only moderate swelling of the organ and a little jaundice if the abscess is very large. In abscesses situated on the under-surface of the liver there is marked projection of the organ downwards into the abdominal cavity, vomiting, pain in the right flank and hip rather than in the shoulder, and frequently jaundice from pressure on the bile-ducts. TREATMENT.—The usual surgical rule of evacuating the pus as soon as its presence is determined must be followed, and the question to be considered is how this shall be done. When the pus has found Us way into the abdominal wall, the swelling should be incised, the track traced up to the liver and sufficiently enlarged for free drainage. When the pus is still confined to the liver or has spread thence into the lung or the pleural cavity, the great difficulty is the protection of the serous cavity. In a large number of cases in which the abscess follows its usual course towards the convex surface, adhesions with the diaphragm will have formed before the surgeon sees the case, but in others there will be none, and this may be the case also when the abscess in situated on the under-surface, although surrounding structures, such as the omentum or the bowel, may be adherent to its surface; the condition is closely analogous to the deep-seated forms of appendicitic abscess. There are three methods of treating an hepatic abscess—namely, incison and drainage, puncture and drainage, and aspiration. Incision and drainage.—Before making an incision it is always well to ascertain that pus exists by puncturing the liver with a long aspirating needle of wide bore. The spot selected for puncture will depend upon circumstances. When there is distinct bulging below the ribs on the right side and there is reason to believe that the abscess is situated towards the under-surface, the puncture should be made below