492 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER one that is movable, but not enlarged, may thus be felt more easily. Moreover, by turning the patient over on one side, a kidney may be felt which otherwise would escape observation. When the kidney is very movable, and the patient is put in the genu-pectoral position, the kidney will fall on to the hand placed over the front of the abdomen. Some information may be gained by eliciting the presence of tender- ness, even though there be no enlargement, and sometimes the examina- tion may set up haematuria. Unless the result of the examination be thoroughl}' conclusive, a further investigation should be carried out under an anaesthetic ; the anaesthetic thoroughly relaxes the abdominal walls, and is especially valuable when the kidney is tender, the patient timid, or the abdominal walls rigid. Examination of the kidney under an anaesthetic is, however, only of value when the kidney is enlarged. A mobile kidney does not descend freely when the patient is under an anjesthetic, as he rarely breathes deeply enough. Percussion is of more value as indicating that any given swelling is situated in the renal region, than in determining the condition of the kidney itself. As the colon lies in front of the kidney, a renal enlarge- ment will always give rise to dullness in the flank with the colon resonance in front of it, whereas the dullness due to splenic and other enlargements is generally in front of the bowel. There should be no resonance between the kidney and the vertebral column. Radiography.—The X-rays have been employed extensively and with success in demonstrating the presence of stone in the kidney. All varieties of stone, however, are not equally opaque to the rays, and a stone consisting of pure uric acid—especially in a fat person—may escape notice, even with the most modern apparatus. In suitable subjects, and in skilled hands, radiograms may also give much information as to the size of the kidnej^ and variations in its position. Exploratory incision.—In some cases, this may be practised with advantage, but it should not be done unless there is reason to believe that beneht will ensue ; it is usually reserved for cases in which the presence of a stone in the renal pelvis is suspected, but cannot be demon- strated by the X-rays. Occasionally, no stone is found, and there is nothing abnormal to the naked eye, and yet the pain and neuralgia from which the patient suffers may disappear after the exploration. The question of an exploratory incision to determine the condition of the other kidney may arise in cases of tuberculous kidney when there is a question of removing the affected one. The method, however, is unreliable if the exploration is made through the abdomen, and the only certain way of gaining trustworthy information by exploration would be to cut down upon each kidney in siiccession from behind. This is a serious addition to the shock of the operation, and it has even happened that the operation has been followed by fatal suppression of urine when the kidney that has been so explored has turned out to be