EPISPADIAS 333 extensive cases, in which the penile urethra is affected but the neck of the bladder is intact, operations upon lines similar to those for hypospadias may be practised. The operation is done in stages, as in the case of hypospadias, the penis being straightened in the first instance, the urethral canal then restored, and finally united to the opening at the root of the penis. When extroversion of the bladder is also present, the treatment of the cleft urethra must be delayed until the ectopia has been remedied (see p. 426). The straightening of the re-curved penis is done exactly as for hypo- spadias (see p. 326), but in this case the organ must be fastened down during healing, and the best plan is probably to employ the wire frame recommended for retained testis (see p. 287), and to fasten the organ to it by means of a stitch through the frenum. This apparatus can be worn even when the patient gets about, and the movements of the limbs do not interfere with the wound. This is a better plan than stitching the organ to the skin of the thigh. Thiersch's method.—-The restoration of the penile urethra is best done by the method introduced by Thiersch, which differs somewhat from that described for hypospadias. The method will be evident from the diagrams (see Fig. 8g). A flap is fashioned on each side of the urethral groove, by means of vertical incisions parallel to its margins. On one side the incision, ef, is made parallel and close to the side of the urethral groove; and at each end transverse incisions are carried outwards; this flap is then dissected up and turned outwards. On the other side the vertical incision ab is made at a sufficient distance from the urethral groove, so that when the flap is turned in, it shall completely cover the groove, and from its ends transverse incisions are carried inwards to the groove ; this flap is then dissected up and turned inwards, so that its cutaneous surface forms the roof of the urethral canal, and its edge is fastened to the raw surface from which the other flap has been raised. The other flap, which should be considerably larger than the first, is then pulled in over the latter so that the two raw surfaces are in appo- sition ; its cutaneous surface therefore forms the cutaneous covering of the dorsum of the penis. The diagram (see Fig. 89, III) will serve to show how the sutures are inserted ; it is important not to bury any, as the asepticity of the wound cannot be guaranteed ; they are therefore so arranged that they are tied outside and can be removed easily. The urethra is formed over a rubber catheter of suitable size, as in hypospadias. At the same operation, the small triangular interval between the urethra in the glans and the newly formed penile one is closed by utilising the prepuce in a manner very similar to that described for hypospadias (see Fig. 87). The urethra in the glans penis may be restored at the preliminary operation of straightening the organ.