BRONCHOSCOPY 143 to employ a tracheal dilator, such as Golding-Bird's (see Fig. 31), in preference to a tracheotomy tube, for as long as twenty-four hours. When the membrane has extended below the tube, it is a good plan to spray a solution of bicarbonate of soda (10 to 15 grains to the ounce), or a saturated solution of bibdrate of soda, through it every hour in order to soften the tenacious mucus and allow the trachea to be more easily cleared. Since the introduction of antitoxin, however, not only is tracheotomy much less frequently called for in diphtheria, but there is not the same trouble in getting rid of the membrane. LARYNGOTOMY. When the air passages must be opened with the least possible delay for impending asphyxia not due to diphtheria, the most rapid plan is to perform a laryngotomy. The steps of this operation are described in Vol. IV. If circumstances demand it, the operation can be done in a few seconds by plunging a knife transversely through the skin over the crico-thyroid membrane and dividing everything down to and including the membrane. A pair of dressing-forceps is then introduced into the larynx before the knife is removed. The after-treatment of the case will depend on the cause of the obstruction. When it is necessary to employ a tube permanently it is better to perform a high tracheotomy and allow the laryngotomy wound to close. DIRECT VISION LARYNGOSCOPY, TRACHEOSCOPY, AND BRONCHOSCOPY. A few years ago Killian showed that it was possible to examine the larynx, trachea, and bronchi by direct vision by means of a rigid tube. The tube can be introduced through the mouth or through a tracheotomy wound. The former is called the ' upper direct method ' and the latter the ' lower direct method.' Instruments.—The instruments required are those known as Briining's (see Fig. 35). There is an outer and an inner tube, the outer tubes or spatuljE being made of different sizes and lengths and graduated in centi- meters, so that the distance that they are introduced can be read off. The inner tube has a watch-spring attached to its upper end, by means of which it can be protruded from the lower end of the outer tube for any desired distance. The spring is marked in centimeters so that the depth it has been passed may be known. This inner tube works in a slot on the interna] surface of the outer tube. The illumination is provided by means of a Briining's hand-lamp (see Fig. 36) or a Kirstein's head-lamp (see