CYSTOSCOPY 505 found in the neighbourhood of the ureteric orifices. They may, however, be found in any part of the bladder wall ; they most frequently resemble a well-formed bath-sponge. The villi of which they are composed may be long, and the tumour has the appearance of a mass of seaweed. On close inspection, the villi are flat and resemble closely massed leaves, or have rounded knob-like ends. Fine vessels can be traced in the villi. Papillomata may be pedunculated, or have a very short base, or may be sessile. The presence of a long pedicle can only be ascertained by noting marked changes in the position of the growth in subsequent examinations. A thick fleshy pedicle is sometimes observed, and is compatible with a simple type of papilloma. Mahgnant growths are found in a number of different forms. A rare type resembles a simple papilloma. Nodular growths are the most frequent form. They vary greatly in size. There may be a rounded or oval nodule the size of a hazel-nut, or a large mass the size of a tangerine orange, projecting into the bladder. These may be sessile, but the base is sometimes contracted, and there may even be a definite pedicle. The surface is smooth or finely nodular, and is sometimes powdered with phosphates or necrotic in parts. Other growths have a softer, fleshy appearance, and are more irregular in outline. Another type of malignant growth infiltrates the bladder wall without forming any prominent projection into the cavity. The mucous membrane is thick and raised in irregular nodules. This type may have a depressed ulcerated centre. The mucous membrane round a malignant growth may show ridges or puckers or thickening from infiltration, or there may be oedematous finger- like processes, all denoting infiltration of the deeper layers of the wall. Cystitis is present in a large proportion of malignant growths. It usually arises spontaneously, and is frequently the condition for which the patient seeks advice—the growth being discovered on cystoscopy. Examination of the ureteric orfices gives information in regard to disease of the kidney and ureter. The method of finding the orifice, its appearance in health, and the observation of the efflux, have already been described. The normal efflux is clear, and there is a ureteric contraction and a jet of urine every eight or ten seconds. The interval and quantity may be reduced in healthy individuals, so that an efflux is observed only at long intervals (half-minute to two minutes, or longer). This probably results from nervous influences due to the cystoscopy. There is no efflux and no contraction when the kidney is congenitally absent or has been removed, or when there is a ureteric fistula and the ureter has been completely severed, or when then is complete obstruction of the ureter. When there is a ureteric fistula, and the duct is not