4o6 AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE TREATMENT.—When the diagnosis is clear, radical treatment should not be recommended. When the disease is at all extensive, it is practically impossible to remove it, and attempts to do so only tear up the growth and leave a ragged, raw surface, which extends rapidly and soon causes obstruction to the passage of urine with more pain than before. When there is a doubt as to the nature of the prostatic enlarge- ment, it is better to wait and watch the progress of the case. If it should prove that the enlargement is innocent, no harm wiU have been done, and, considering the unsatisfactory results of operation of malignant disease, the patient will have been saved much distress and disappoint- ment. As a paUiative measure, the best plan is to establish supra-pubic drainage. Treatment by X-rays and radium, applied per rectum or through a perineal incision, may be tried. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. Tuberculosis of the prostate is rarely primary ; it is more often secondary to similar disease elsewhere in the genito-urinary tract, especi- ally in the epididymis. The disease leads to irregular enlargement of the lateral lobes of the organ, and the tuberculous masses undergo caseation, and either become encapsuled and calcareous or break down and form abscesses. When the urethral mucous membrane is implicated, the patient usually complains of dull aching in the perineum, increased by defaecation or exertion. Micturition is painful and frequent, and the last drops of urine are often blood-stained. The pain is referred to the tip of the penis or the neck of the bladder, and is most marked at the end of micturition. Retention may occur from swelling in and around the prostatic urethra. If the urethral mucous membrane is unaffected, there may be few symptoms beyond a sense of fullness or uneasiness in the perineum combined with slight discomfort on defsecation when the bowels are at all confined. On digital rectal examination, the prostate, instead of being smooth and elastic, is found to contain a number of nodules of varying size, and is often very tender. These nodules vary in consistency, and tend to soften, and fluctuation may be detected. When this is the case, there may be retention of urine and much pain on micturition. When an abscess forms in connection with a tuberculous prostate, it not infrequently bursts into the urethra, leaving a ragged ulcerating cavity into which urine makes its way. At other times, abscesses situated in the posterior part of the prostate may open into the rectum, and an opening may also form in the urethra, thus leading to the formation of a recto-urethral fistula. The abscess may also burrow down into the