382 AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA as the latter. Another important point is to render the urine as aseptic as possible, and this is done by the administration of urinary antiseptics (see p. 354) for a few days previously. The bladder should be washed out regularly with boric lotion (see p. 447), if there is any cystitis, and it should be emptied immediately before the operation. The patient is anaesthetised, and the exact limits of the stricture are ascertained by means of the stricture-finders which accompany Thompson's instrument ; these have a shaft graduated similarly to the shaft of the urethrotome and are furnished with a pyramidal head which is passed into the urethra until it rests upon the face of the stricture. The distance from the meatus is read off on the scale and the head of the instrument is then passed through the stricture and withdrawn until its shoulder is felt to hitch against its deep surface, when the distance from the meatus is again read off; by subtracting the former measure- ment from the latter, the length of the stricture is ascertained, as well as the distance of the anterior and posterior extremities from the meatus. The Fig. 107.—Urethral Syringe. This has a backward flow so that infective'material cannot be driven on into the deeper parts by it. urethra should now be well washed out with i in 4000 sublimate solution with a back-flow syringe (see Fig. 107), and the urethrotome—which should be previously examined to see that it is in perfect order-—is lubricated and passed through the stricture with its cutting-blade concealed and with the edge directed towards the floor of the urethra. The instrument is passed on until the surgeon knows by the measurements that its bulbous end lies behind the proximal extremity of the stricture. The button is then pressed, the knife is protruded, and the urethrotome is gradually and steadily withdrawn, firm pressure being made downwards on the floor of the urethra so as to divide the stricture fully. The forefinger of the left hand should make light pressure upon the perineum in the neighbourhood of the stricture in order to steady the soft parts and facilitate their division. When the stricture has been fully divided—as is known by reading the scale upon the shaft of the instmment and also by the relaxation of the pressure on the blade—the latter is sheathed and the instrament is withdrawn. A 7-10 Lister's bougie is now passed, and the urethra rapidly dilated by a series of these instruments up to No. 14 English. Finally, the urethra is again flushed out with i in 4000 sublimate solution