596 OPERATIONS UPON THE FEMALE GENITALS the peritoneum at the upper end of the incision and continue the division from above downwards. In all those cases of ' acute abdomen' in women, in which the pelvic viscera are suspected to be the cause of the symptoms, the vertical incision through the rectus should be utilised. If the abdomen has been opened elsewhere—for example, in the appendix region—and it is found to be impossible to deal with the condition from the lateral incision, a fresh one should be made just to one side of the median line. When, however, the original incision has been made through the outer edge of the rectus, it is often possible in thin patients with lax abdominal walls to retract the inner side of the incision sufficiently to get satisfactory access to the pelvis ; the right tube and ovary, at any rate, can be readily dealt with. Another important point is the employment of the Trendelenburg position. This position greatly facilitates the proceedings in most operations at the lower part of the abdomen, such as the removal of fibroids of the uterus or deep-seated broad ligament cysts, or the detachment of adhesions, especially to the rectum. It is not absolutely necessary to employ it when removing ovarian cysts, unless they are adherent to the pelvic floor, and we are of opinion that it should not be used in acute inflammatory conditions, when there is free fluid or pus in the general peritoneal cavity, or, at any rate, not until all such fluid has been carefully removed and the rest of the abdominal cavity packed off, otherwise there is great danger of spreading the infection to parts not yet affected. In any case, the Trendelenburg position should not be maintained for a longer time than is absolutely necessary, and the horizontal position should be resumed before the muscles are sutured ; it is easier to bring the muscles together when the patient is horizontal. The separation of adhesions demands great care. They may be thin and membranous or dense and firm, and they should be separated and divided as close to the parts to be removed as possible. Some of the adhesions may have to be divided between ligatures, so as to avoid haemorrhage, but often a raw area will be left, from which persistent oozing takes place. If the Trendelenburg position has been employed, this oozing diminishes or entirely ceases, in many cases, when the patient is placed horizontal. Sometimes the bowel is so closely adherent to the tumour that detachment is impossible without seriously damaging it. Under these circumstances it is better to leave the adherent portion attached to the bowel and cut through the peritoneum around the point of attachment. Occasionally, resection of the intestine may be necessary. When raw areas are left after the separation of the adhesions, care should be taken to arrest the bleeding as completely as possible, and to cover them over by adjacent portions of peritoneum, if any are available. To prevent the re-formation of adhesions, the methods recommended in Vol. IV. pp. 294 and 360 may be used. Injury to the intestine is a most serious complication, and is generally