SIMPLE ENLARGEMENT 413 urine diminishes the congestion of the prostate, but at the same time the employment of an instrument exposes the patient to a certain amount of risk. The following rules may be of use : If the residual urine amounts to about three ounces, the catheter should be passed once daily; if it reaches six ounces, the catheter should be passed twice a day, and once extra daily for every two ounces above this quantity. Should there be complete retention, the instrument should be used at regular intervals —every three or four hours. The catheter should in any case be passed immediately before the patient goes to bed, so as to empty the bladder and ensure some hours' sleep. When the urine is aseptic, there is no need to irrigate the bladder in addition to evacuating it; should cystitis occur, however, this will be necessary. The management of the case when cystitis is present is referred to below (see p. 414). Catheters.—The best catheter for the purpose— especially when the patient passes it himself—is Jaques' red-rubber catheter, which can generally be passed fairly easily, and with which it is impossible for the patient to injure himself ; it also has the great advantage that it is easily disinfected, and is not spoilt by boiling. A No. 8 Enghsh is the best size, as it is too large to get caught in the folds of the urethra, and too small to do any damage. When the urethra is so distorted that the red- rubber instrument fails to pass, the black coudee or bicoudee catheter (see Fig. iii) is very useful. Gum- elastic catheters are mttch employed in England ; they are moulded on a stylet to a proper curve, and may be bent to any shape after immersion in hot water, and they retain the curve imparted to them when allowed to cool. They are very easy for the surgeon to pass, but they are difficult for the patient himself to use. An excellent flexible catheter, both of the olivary and coudee type, is made by Porges of Paris, and can be boiled repeatedly with- out deterioration. It is supplied by Messrs. Alfred Cox & Sons, of New Bond Street. Metal instruments should rarely be used, and not at all by an unskilled person, as they may cause serious damage ; they should be an inch and a half to two inches longer than the usual instrument, and should have the bold prostatic curve. No. 8 or g is the best size. Fig. III. — Coudee AND Bicoudee Cathe- ters FOR USE IN CASES OF Enlargement of THE Prostate.