229 INFLAMMATION OF THE PLEURA is found that evacuation and drainage does not usually lead to healing ; the lung fails to expand, the chest takes a long time to fall in, and even with the greatest care, sepsis is prone to occur, and then, in addition to the tuberculous empyema, the patient will suffer from a septic cavity and will go downhill rapidly. Hence, if the empyema is tuberculous and not septic, it is better to avoid anything like a free incision ; indeed, in cases without marked pressure symptoms it may be inadvisable to interfere at all, and, if anything must be done, it should take the form of occasional partial aspiration rather than free opening. The greatest care must be taken with the aseptic management of the case, lest a simple tuberculous empyema be transformed into a septic one. PYO-PNEUMO-THORAX. Cases of simple pneunio-thorax are not uncommon after injury, and are dealt with separately (see p. 209) ; this condition may, how- ever, be followed by suppuration, when a septic pyo-pneumo-thorax occurs. Most cases of pyo-pneumo- thorax, however, are due to the perforation of a tuberculous cavity, with the free passage of air from the bronchus into the pleural cavity, followed by suppuration. Cases of tuberculous pyo-pneumo-thorax, in which the ordinary pyogenic bacteria are absent, may however occur, and they are then very chronic and do not cause severe symptoms. TREATMENT.-—When the condition is septic, the pleural cavity must be opened and the treatment conducted on the lines laid down for empyema. When, however; it is tuberculous without any septic complication, it is better not to operate, as the results of incision are bad and the improvement is only temporary. If these cases are drained it is very difficult to prevent the entrance of septic organisms; and if this occurs, the patient rapidly goes downhill. There is practically no chance of the lung expanding sufficiently to fiU the cavity, and the patient's condition is generahy so bad that any operation such as Estlander's is inadvisable. Fig. 56.—Godlee's Needle for siphon drainage of the pleural cavity.