CARCINOMA 187 vessels which have been clamped, and pick up and tie any other bleeding points. All the fat and glands will now have been cleared from around the upper part of the axillary vessels and nerves, and turned down so that they lie in the hollow of the scapula along with the fat and glands situated in that region which has not yet been disturbed. The rest of the wound is covered up with hot cloths, and the reinoval of this mass along with the breast is proceeded with. The sheath of the axillary vein is defined and opened, and the fascia and fat are turned down from it with a blunt dissector until the subscapularis muscle is seen l;)ehind it. In doing so, branches of the ax- illary vein will be encountered, and should be clamped and divided; and if the nerve of Wrisberg comes into view, as it generally does, it should be carefully preserved. The fascia is peeled down from the surface of the subscapularis, care being taken to preserve the sub- scapular vessels and nerves. At this stage the question will arise whether the intercosto- humeral nerve can be preserved or not. If there are many enlarged glands in the fat it is better not to make the at- tempt, as diseased lymphatic vessels may be torn across and infect the wound ; in that case the nerve should be divided close to the thorax. If, how- ever, this is not the case, it is a great addition to the comfort of the patient to leave the branches going to the arm. The operation is com- pleted by detaching the rest of the fat lying in the hollow of the scapula, taking special care to clean the long subscapular nerve and vessels, especially at their attachment to the latissimus dorsi. The breast and the pectoralis major muscle, with all the glands and lymphatic vessels included in the various fascial extensions, can now be detached with a few touches of the knife. If the operation is clone systematically, the larger blood-vessels will have been seen and secured before they are divided, and the loss of blood will have been comparatively slight ; but the wound must be carefully inspected before it is closed, as there are often a number of small points which require ligature. Fic.'i4-—Lister's Needle for the introduction of SILVER WIRE, AND THE METHOD OF THREADING IT. The wire is clamped into the groove in the eye with pressure- forceps, and the two ends are evenly twisted up, one round the other.