HYPOSPADIAS 331 .a Fig. 87.—Mrthod of utilising the prepuce in Urethroplastv FOR Hypospadias. The hood or flap of prepuce, a, is first put on the stretch and transfixed. Subsequently the glans penis is passed through the hole thus made, and the flap of prepuce occupies the situation shown in //. The method of straightening the penis, described in the second stage of the preceding operation will be found to be the most convenient and satisfactory in the majority of cases. When, liowever, the prepuce is deficient, or unsuccessful operations have been previously performed, it may be necessary to accomplish the straightening by a simple division of the tight bands, either subcutaneously or through an open operation, in which case the edges of the incision must be sutured in the long axis of the penis as shown in Fig. 83. The method de- scribed by Bucknall (see Figs. 84-86) is very useful in cases in which the urethra opens just in front of the scrotum and there is no extreme downward curvature of the penis. It is done as follows: Two parallel incisions are made, one on each side of the urethral groove, extending from the urethral orifice to the glans and a slightly farther distance back on to the scrotum (see Fig. 84, .4). At each end of these incisions a short cross-cut is made outwards so as to mark out two long narrow flaps, which are then dissected up and turned outwards, leaving a long strip of skin and mucous mem- brane, with the opening of the urethra above its centre (see Fig. 84, B). A rubber catheter is passed into the urethra, and the penis turned down on to the scrotum so that each lateral flap is folded upon itself at the level of the urethral orifice. Stitches are then passed so as to bring together the edges of the two halves of each strip, and so complete the new urethra; the same stitches also ap- proximate the raw surfaces external to the new urethra. These stitches are tied over a piece of fine rubber tubing laid along each side of the penis both on the dorsal and ventral aspect (see Fig. 85, A). The arrangement of the suture is seen in the diagrammatic cross-section, Fig. 85, B. When the wound has soundly healed, a U-shaped incision is made in the scrotum about half an inch away from the penis all round, and the latter is then dissected up, giving the appearance shown Fig. 88.—Restoration of theUrethra IN the Glans Penis in a case of Hypo- spadias. /, The upper pair of dotted lines indicates the incisions into the sub- stance of the glans. The lower pair are for rendering the edges raw, so that they may be approximated, as in //.