205 INJURIES OF THE THORACIC WALL of an injury some time after healing has taken place—is comparatively rare, and results either from adhesion of the lung to the seat of the injury or from emphysema developing later, or possibly from both causes com- bined. A properly fitting corset with a suitable pad, or an apparatus of the nature of a truss with shoulder- and chest-straps, should be applied. Sometimes a cure has been accomplished by such means ; if not, the protrusion may be returned and a radical operation performed under differential pressure (see Chap. XIX.). Of traumatic empyema.—This is not uncommon after a penetrating wound of the thorax, and, when it occurs, the sooner the thorax is opened and drained the better. The incision should be free, and is best combined with resection of a rib (see p. 221). When the affection follows a wound, it may suffice to enlarge the old wound and drain the pleura through it ; if, however, the primary opening is comparatively high up in the thoracic wall, it is well to pass a probe down to the lowest limit of the pleura about the posterior axillary line and make a counter-opening in that situation after excising a portion of the rib. A drainage tube can then be passed from one opening to the other, and the after-treatment will be similar to that for empyema (see p. 223). Of foreign bodies in the thorax.—Bullets or fragments of clothing may be met with in the pleural cavity or in the lung. If they remain aseptic, as bullets sometimes do, they may gravitate to the lowest part of the pleural cavity and become encapsuled. If sepsis occurs and the foreign body is not removed, an acute empyema or an abscess of the lung may form, according to its position, and the pus may be discharged either through the wound or into one of the bronchi ; in the latter case fatal septic pneumonia is likely to occur. Should the object be opaque to the X-rays, it can be locahsed by them and cut down upon and removed, if it is in an accessible position, and this proceeding is much simphfied by the use of differential pressure (see p. 232). If it can be reached from the wound, the simplest plan is to open up the latter and remove it by that route ; in other cases it may be some considerable distance away (as is often the case with bullets), and then it may be removed by a fresh incision close to the foreign body. When the foreign body is a fragment of clothing and cannot be locahsed by the X-rays, the wound should be opened up and the track of the sinus examined carefully until the foreign body is felt. If it can be removed through the wound this should be done ; if not, its exact situation should be ascertained and the thorax should be opened in the most suitable situation. Drainage must be employed subsequently. If the case is not seen until some time after the accident, either the foreign body will be quiescent, or symptoms of empyema or pneumonia will have developed ; the case then becomes either a pulmonary abscess or an empyema, and must be treated accordingly (see p. 241 and p. 220),