GOlTRE "3 Difficulties during the operation.—Tliese should be few if the pre- cautions indicated above are taken. It may however happen that, when the trachea is seriously compressed, the asphyxial symptoms become alarming during the operation ; if this is the case the anaesthetic should be stopped and the operation—at any rate, up to the dislocation of the gland—should be performed without any more anaesthetic, the patient being allowed to regain a proper colour and to breathe naturally before the operation is proceeded with. In some rare cases, however, the aspliyxia becomes so serious that it may be necessary to perform tracheotomy ; this however should be looked upon as one of the most serious com- plications that can happen in these operations, as not only is the tracheotomj' itself extremely difficult under those circumstances owing to the distortion and narrowing of the trachea, but it is also impossible to keep the wound in the neck aseptic. The surgeon and the anaesthetist must therefore be constantly on the watch to avoid this untoward acci- dent. In view of the fact that a tracheotomy may be necessary, the surgeon should always be provided with an extra long flexible tracheotomy tube (see Fig. 28), which may be bent to any required curve, and he should also have at hand several large catheters, which m.dcy be used to pass down through the tracheotomy opening so as to get beyond the constricted portion. The ordinary tracheotomy tube is hardly ever efficient if there is much lateral compression of the trachea, as it will not reach sufficiently far down. If a tracheotomy has been done, every pre- caution must be taken during the further progress of the operation to prevent blood passing down the trachea, and an assistant should be told off especially to look after this. We have, fortunately, not had any experience of this accident. Should there by any chance be serious bleeding from the raw surface left when the lobe and the isthmus are detached, and should it be im- possible to seize the vessel satisfactorily in forceps, the bleeding point should be underrun either with a fully curved intestinal needle or a naevus needle, threaded with catgut. After-treatment.—The ordinary gauze dressings are applied and fixed with bandages carried beneath the shoulders as well as around the neck and head to prevent shifting of the dressing, and the patient is put back to bed lying flat upon the back, with a small pillow beneath the head so as to tilt it slightly forward and relieve all tension upon the line of incision. The head should also be steadied by a sand-bag on either side. As soon as the anaesthesia has passed off, the patient's head and Fig. 28. — Konig's long flexible tra- CHEOTOMY Tube.