ECTOPIA TESTIS 289 is one of strangulated hernia. If tlris is the case, the best plan is to complete the operation by removing it. When torsion of the cord has occurred or gangrene has set in, the proper procedure is immediate castration. ECTOPIA TESTIS. Here the testis, instead of passing from the inguinal canal into the scrotum, finds its way elsewhere. The chief forms of this condition are perineal ectopia, in which the testis misses the entrance into the scrotum and passes into the perineum, and crural ectopia, in which the testis, instead of leaving the abdomen by the inguinal canal, passes through the crural ring and either lies in the crural canal or turns up on to the thigh over the lower part of Poupart's ligament after passing through the saphenous opening. Pubic ectopia is sometimes, but very rarely, met with ; in it the testis lies in front of the pubic spine near the root of the penis. Another form occurs when the external ring is completely closed and the testis, being prevented from reaching the scrotum, passes outwards and lies between the oblique muscles just below the anterior superior iliac spine. In all cases of ectopia testis the corresponding half of the scrotum is ill-developed. The testicles, however, are usually well developed and functionally active. Crural ectopia is the form most likely to be associated with hernia. TREATMENT.—As the testis is subject to injury in these abnormal positions, it should always be placed in the scrotum if possible, and this is generally comparatively easy except in the femoral form. In perineal ectopia an incision is made just over the external ring, the cord is exposed, and the testicle is pulled up from its bed in the perineum. If it is adherent, the remains of the gubernaculum testis may have to be divided. A passage is then made with the finger from the external ring to the bottom of the scrotum, and the testis is secured in place by the means described on p. 287. In femoral ectopia the treatment is more difficult. The testicle may be so well developed that it is impossible to get it back through the crural canal without enlarging the crural ring, and the question will arise as to whether castration should be performed. The decision will be influenced largely by the liability of the testicle to injury in its abnormal position, and also by the condition of the one on the opposite side. If the other testicle is normal and in the scrotum, and if there is a history of attacks of pain and inflammation in the ectopic testicle, castration should be performed, and a radical cure done if a femoral hernia is present. If, on the other hand, the other testicle is imperfect, the surgeon will hesitate to perform castration, and will not do so unless there is a history of repeated attacks of orchitis. V. u