57 GALL-STONES An occasional trouble, to which we have already referred (see p. 39), is persistent oozing of blood, and for this some surgeons are in the habit of draining the right kidney-pouch through a stab-wound in the loin just outside the kidney, whenever there is much oozing in a deeply jaundiced patient. The bleeding may be checked partly by the con- tinued administration of calcium lactate by the rectum, and partly by soaking the deeper layers of the gauze packing in a solution of adrenalin chloride (i in 1000). The administration of normal horse serum sub- cutaneously is recommended for this purpose; if that fails, opening the wound and applying firm pressure, or under-running bleeding vessels or applying the actual cautery may succeed. The wound may also have to be opened up after cholecystostomy in order to remove stitches, about which fresh biliary calculi are forming. This trouble can be avoided if the stitches are either composed of absorbable catgut with the ends cut short, or silkworm-gut with the ends cut long, so that they can be re- moved without opening up the wound. Another cause for which the wound occasionally wants re-opening, and a very serious and trouble- some complication, is the formation of dense adhesions between the seat of the operation and the duodenum, pylorus, or colon ; occasionally actual stricture of the bowel may thus be produced. When these adhesions have existed before the operation, and have been separated, it is well, before closing the abdomen, to interpose a piece of omentum between the raw surfaces. Further, an operation may be required later on for x'entral hernia or for persistent biliary fistula [vide infra). Cholecystenterostomy. ■— When the patient's condition does not allow of choledochotomy, the operation of cholecystenterostomy may be performed. This has for its object the establishment of a fistulous communication between the gall-bladder and the intestine, preferably the duodenum, or, failing that, the colon. The object of the operation is to avoid a biliary fistula, which of course will be permanent if it is impossible to remove the stone from the duct or if tlie obstruction happens to be malignant. In the latter case the operation is a good and a legitimate one. We should reserve cholecystenterostomy for cases in which the obstruction is irremovable, since a permanent connection with the bowel must always expose the bile-passages to the risk of septic infection. If the obstruction is removable, but removal cannot be undertaken because of the patient's feeble condition, we should prefer to drain the gall-bladder by means of cholecystostomy (see p. 48) and trust that an operation for removal of the obstruction might be successfully undertaken at a later period. Cholecystenterostomy is performed in nuich the same manner as gastro-jejunostomy (see Vol. IV. p. 265), the contents of the gall-bladder being first removed by a trochar and canula. Special clamp forceps, like those used for gastro-jejunostomy but smaller, have been introduced to facilitate the operation. The opening should be about an inch in