AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 114 shoulders are raised on pillows, the head being kept slightly flexed. The dressing should be changed at the end of twenty-four or forty-eight hours, when the drainage tube may be left out, as a rule, and the tem- porary stitch tied so as to close the opening in the skin. Recovery is usually extremely rapid and the relief from the removal of the enlarged gland is marked and immediate, so that the patient begins to breathe normally, even before the operation is completed. Cases sometimes occur which are marked by distinct and peculiar symptoms of so-called ' thyyoidism ' after this operation. These s3'mptoms consist mainly of high temperature, and a rapid pulse (about 120) which is sometimes irregrdar. There is also a feeling of suffocation and rest- lessness, and there may be slight delirium; in some cases death has occurred without any further symptoms. It is presumed that these symptoms are produced by the absorption of the thyroid secretion poured out into the cellular tissue from the raw surface made by detachment of the enlarged portion of the gland. We have operated on a large number of these cases, and have not met with this condition, and we are inclined to regard it as in the main a septic condition rather than one due to absorption of thyroid secretion. Should it occur, free drainage must be employed, and it has been suggested that the wound should be washed out. When septic infection of the wound occurs, the latter must be opened up and drained freely. It should be lightly packed at first with cyanide gauze wrung out of i in 2000 perchloride, and subsequently drained by tubes. A culture should be made from the discharge and an appropriate vaccine or serum given. Sepsis in the wound is a very serious complica- tion and it is very apt to spread in the connective tissue-planes of the neck and downwards to the mediastinum. The condition may be followed by the formation of very persistent sinuses. THYROID ADENOMATA AND CYSTS. In our experience these form the majority of th5n:oid enlargements with which the surgeon has to deal. The gland as a whole is unaffected, but small nodules of thyroid tissue take on independent growth forming tumours smrounded by a well-defined capsule. The adenomata may be single or multiple, and may grow to a large size, giving rise to much enlargement of the portion of the gland involved, which may cause serious inconvenience to the patient. An adenoma is generally globular or oval in shape and has a smooth surface. When it is large, there may be very little of the original th3^oid lobe left, and when one lobe alone is affected or the two lobes are affected unequally, the trachea is displaced to the side opposite to the one on which the chief enlargement is, and severe dyspnoea is often the result. In other cases the adenoma grows forward as it increases, and gives rise to only slight pressure effects ; in such