381 ORGANIC STRICTURE Internal urethrotomy.—Tlie cases suitable for internal urethrotomy are especially penile strictures of the resilient type. These may be dilated fully at one sitting, but at the next they are as narrow as ever, and no permanent progress is made by dilatation. Bridle or valvular strictures are also specially suited for treatment by internal urethrotomy as they do not yield to dilatation, and the same remark applies to irritable strictures. External urethrotomy is not a suitable operation for stricture in the penile portion of the urethra unless some complication, especially extravasation of urine, is present. Internal urethrotomy is only possible when the stricture can be dilated to at least the size of a 4 or 5 English, so as to allow the passage of the urethrotome. The operation itself may be performed in two ways. In one the =i=^ B Fig. 106.—Urethrotomes. A is Thompson's instrument, which cuts from behind forwards in the floor of the urethra. B is Berkeley Hill's, which cuts from before backwards in the roof of the urethra. stricture is divided from before backwards, in the other, from behind forwards, and in both cases the incision in the urethra may be made either in the floor or in the roof. We prefer to divide the stricture from behind forwards and to make the incision in the floor of the urethra, as there is then less likelihood of doing unnecessary damage to the deep urethra and it is more easy to make certain of dividing the whole stricture. Another reason for making the incision in the floor of the urethra is that the main portion of the stricture is usually situated at that part; were the division made in the roof, only healthy mucous membrane might be incised and the stricture itself left untouched. The patient should be prepared beforehand, and the stricture dilated sufficiently to admit the urethrotome. Thompson's instrument (see Fig. 106, A), which we prefer, corresponds to No. 5 English, and, therefore, the stricture must be dilated up to that size, either by the intermittent method or by tying in a catheter for a day or two previous to the operation; the former method is preferable as it is not so likel}^ to set up urethritis