SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE KIDNEY 549 The ureter, which may be much thickened, may be diminished in calibre, and not distended, unless tliere is an obstruction below. There are patches of inflammation and frequently small abscesses throughout the renal cortex. The affection may be either acute or chronic. In acute cases, death occurs rapidly from suppression of urine or from pyjemia or septica;mia. The chronic form may last for months or even years. Symptoms.—In the acute form, the onset of the disease is generally marked by severe rigors, with high temperature, and vomiting. The patient soon passes into a typhoid state and dies in the course of two or three weeks, unless the disease is arrested. Death is often preceded by coma, with ursemic convulsions. In the move chronic form—generally spoken of as ' surgical kidney '— the onset of the affection is often insidious ; the elevation of temperature is slight at first, and the patient only complains of digestive troubles. There may be pain or uneasiness in the loin, and sleeplessness, often accompanied by slight delirium. The temperature soon becomes irregular and intermittent. Examination of the urine-—which at first may be acid, but later on becomes alkaline—shows the presence of pus ; in the early stages there is often polyuria and increased frequency of micturition. Albumen is present, but is usually accounted for by the pus ; epithehal cells from the renal pelvis may also be found in the urine. Later on, renal casts may be present, and the kidney is tender, but not necessarily enlarged ; when it is enlarged, pyonephrosis is probably present. When the temperature is high at night and assumes a hectic type, and the patient loses flesh and has profuse perspirations, a quick pulse, nausea, and occasional rigors, the condition is sti^ongly presumptive of ' surgical kidney '—especially if the patient is suffering from prostatic disease, stricture of the urethra, or cystitis. It is sometimes difficult to diagnose this affection from renal tuberculosis, but in that disease there is nothing to account for the onset of the pyelonephritis, while^there may be tuberculosis elsewhere, occasional haematuria without any obvious cause, and perhaps tubercle bacilli in the urine. The distinction between pyelonephritis and simple pyeUtis is by no means easy to make, but in the former condition the symptoms are usually more severe. Many cases of pyelonephritis begin as a simple pyehtis, and the treatment is practically the same in the two conditions, unless operative treatment seems indicated. TREATMEISTT.—The possibiUty of the occurrence of these con- ditions must be borne in mind in all cases of inflammatory disease in the lower part of the urinary organs or when obstruction to the outflow of urine is present, and these conditions should, if possible, be corrected. The worst cases are those which occur in connection with enlarged prostate or paralysis of the bladder ; when these affections are present, patients