78 AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK possible, and if the patient is neurasthenic, the appropriate treatment for that condition must be employed. Various nerve sedatives—such as bromides, chloral, or, in bad cases, subcutaneous injections of morphine—-may be employed, and the patient should be placed amidst cheerful surroundings and under good hygienic conditions. In bad cases it may be necessary to put the patient in bed and fix the head between sand-bags for some time. It is noteworthy that the spasms often cease when slight support is given to the head. In the less severe cases a head-rest alone may be sufficient, and we have treated cases with success by providing a posterior head-rest attached to a poroplastic band around the chest, so that the patient could rest his head against it whenever he chose, the head not being fixed to the apparatus. Massage and the galvanic current are perhaps the most useful methods of local treatment. The current should be passed from above downwards along the course of the spinal accessory nerve and should also be applied directly to the affected muscles. The positive pole should be placed over the spinal accessory nerve high up, the negative lower down. A very weak current should be employed at first and gradually increased, and the application should be made daUy. (b) Operative.—In severe cases resection of a portion of the spinal accessory nerve and branches of the cervical plexus has been practised. In some cases this has been successful, but the result is frequently disap- pointing and no relief of the spasm may be obtained. Operation should therefore not be undertaken even in severe cases until a prolonged trial of other measures has been made. The course of the spinal accessory nerve after its exit from the jugular foramen may be represented by a line drawn at right angles from the centre of another line running from the tip of the mastoid process to the angle of the jaw. The nerve emerges from beneath the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, just superficial to the transverse process of the atlas, and runs downwards and backwards to pierce the sterno-mastoid muscle a little lower down. The following are the details of the operation :—• Neurectomy of the spinal accessory.—^The patient lies upon his back with the head turned towards the healthy side, and a transverse or slightly curved incision is made across the upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle extending on to the anterior triangle of the neck. The skin, super- ficial fascia, and platysma are divided and turned up ; the deep fascia of the neck is opened, the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid is defined, and the muscle drawn backwards with retractors. The digastric muscle is then defined with the finger or a dissector, and the spinal accessory nerve is seen commg from beneath it on its way to perforate the sterno- mastoid. If there is any difficulty in finding the nerve, the surgeon should feel for the transverse process of the atlas and the nerve will be found immediately over it. As a rule, when using the finger or a dissector in this region, twitching of the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles will be