63 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS TREATMENT.—In mild cases without marked pain the best plan is to employ a well-titting belt in the first instance. This generally suffices to make the patient comfortable ; but if not, the surgeon has the choice between splenopexy or fi.xation of the organ, and splenectomy. The latter will naturally cure the troubles, and the results are satisfactory unless the spleen is diseased. At the same time, the operation is a serious one, and should only be performed when the patient is gravely incapacitated and no other measures suffice, as, apart from the risks of the operation itself [vide infra), the mere loss of the spleen may affect the patient deleteriously. Splenopexy.—In performing splenopexy it is not sufficient simply to pass sutures between the capsule of the spleen and the under-surface of the diaphragm, as no satisfactory adhesions result and the spleen soon becomes loose again. The following plan introduced by Rydygier [Archiv f. klin. Chir., 1895), is perhaps the most likely to be successful. The abdomen is opened by a vertical incision just internal to the outer margin of the left rectus and the spleen is exposed. A pocket is then made beneath the parietal peritoneum covering the diaphagm and abdominal wall, into which the lower end of the organ is inserted and fixed. To do this, a transverse incision is made through the peritoneum covering the diaphragm on a level with the ninth intercostal space, and the peritoneum is separated from the abdominal wall downwards with the finger or the handle of the knife so as to form a pocket to receive the spleen. In order to limit the separation of the peritoneum from the wall of the abdomen below and to prevent the spleen increasing this separation by its weight and slipping too far down in the pocket, a few stitches may be passed through the parietal peritoneum and the subjacent muscle at the lower limit of the pocket. The lower part of the spleen is now placed in this pocket and the free border of the pocket is fastened to the gastro- splenic omentum by a few catgut sutures (see Fig. 16). This operation is only suitable for cases of wandering spleen that have not undergone any considerable enlargement. When the spleen is much enlarged, splenectomy is the better operation (see p. 65). INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. Inflammation and abscess of the spleen usually occur in connection with some general septic infection, and local surgical treatment will seldom be sufficient. ABSCESS. An abscess of the spleen occasionally occurs as an independent affection—for instance after typhoid fever—but its diagnosis is extremely