577 RENAL FISTULA of a tube; the patient is left in this atmosphere for half an hour, when profuse sweating generally occurs. If hot air is used, the outer end of the tube terminates in a funnel inverted over a lamp, while if steam is employed, an ordinary bi^onchitis-kettle may be used. Hot air is preferable. The greatest care must be taken that no portion of the apparatus touches the patient. A substitute apparatus may be improvised by surrounding the patient with blankets, outside which hot-water bottles are packed ; where the electric current is available, electric lights may be strung on a cradle and covered over with a blanket so as to form a radiant-heat bath. In all cases, signs of cardiac failure must be carefully watched for. Still more certain is the hot wet-pack, in which a thick blanket is saturated with water almost at boiling-point, and then rapidly wrung out to remove excess of moisture. The patient is quickly and entirely swathed in this, with the exception of the head and face, and several blankets are v/rapped outside it ; the patient is left in the pack for a couple of hours, at the end of which time he generally sweats profusely. He is then rubbed dry and well covered up with hot, dry blankets. During the time he is in the pack, he should drink freely of hot barley water or other diluent drinks. The action of the wet-pack or of the hot-air bath may be increased by the administration of a subcutaneous injection of pilocarpine (gr. to -J), but the effect of the latter must be carefully watched, as it may produce dangerous depression. Brandy and water should be given if the patient becomes collapsed. Dry cupping to the loin is valuable. RENAL FISTULA. Sinuses maybe present in the loin, either after the bursting or opening of abscesses or after operations, and may be due to a variety of causes— such as spinal disease, disease of the appendix, gall-bladder, duodenum, or colon, or contusions of the loin which fail to heal either because there is imperfect drainage or because the original cause is still active. Hence, we are concerned with sinuses which occur in connection with the kidney. These may be divided into two large groups : non-urinary and urinary listula;. NON-URINARY SINUSES. Important causes of non-urinary sinuses are operations on the kidney, followed by suppuration and the extrusion of stitches, or those which occur in connection with the upper end of the ureter after nephrectomy. They may also result from disease of the kidney itself—such as a peri-nephric abscess due to stone or tubercle—in which, although no communication exists with the pelvis of the kidney, the