AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER 478 before operation, partly by exclusion and partly because there were well-marked superficial nsevi on the left thigh and elsewhere on the left side of the body. Haematuria is often the only symptom, especially in the early stages. It is usually intermittent, lasting from a few hours up to some weeks, and is sometimes severe enough to produce profound anaemia. At other times there may be a mere discoloration of the urine with blood at intervals, lasting for a very short time. The haemorx-hage is generally most marked towards the close of the act of micturition, and is due to the contraction of the bladder wall upon the growth. The bleeding usually occurs without definite cause. Examination of the bladder with a sound or catheter, however carefully done, will generally give rise to a smart attack of haemorrhage. As a rule, there is no pain in the early stages, and pain is often absent throughout; the same may be said with regard to other bladder symptoms—such as frequency of micturition. In the later stages, however, when the growth fills up the bladder to a considerable extent, there may be pain, frequency of micturition, and interference with the outflow, due to portions of the growth blocking the neck of the bladder. When micturition is markedly painful, cystitis has usually supervened. TREATMENT.—When a benign growth of the bladder is diag- nosed, the possibility of removing it must be considered, and, as a rule, the sooner the bladder is opened and the tumour removed the better. If there is much bleeding, therej^may be serious anaemia, and further cystitis is apt to occur and complicate operation considerably. Palliative treatment.—While it is best to operate for simple tumours of the bladder, cases—especially of papiUomata—occur in which operation is unadvisable, either on account of the diffuseness of the growths or for other reasons, and palliative measures must be adopted ; where also several operations have already been performed, patients may refuse to submit to further operative procedures. In these cases, palliative measures must be adopted, and, in the case of papillomata. Herring has suggested that the bladder should be frequently irrigated with a solution of nitrate of silver not only to prevent bleeding, but to cause shrivelling of the growths. A ' standard solution' of nitrate of silver is made of the strength of one grain of the salt in a dram of distilled water slightly acidulated with nitric acid. Half a dram of the ' standard solution ' in four ounces of distilled water at the body temperature is injected into the bladder daily as long as the bleeding persists. The strength of the injection may be increased very cautiously until one or two drams of the ' standard solution ' are used. If cystitis is present, it must be treated on the ordinary lines. In some cases, the diathermic apparatus may be employed through a cystoscope. Operative treatment.—-For the removal of the tumour, the supra- pubic operation should be performed (see p. 474). The bladder is opened