SIMPLE ENLARGEMENT 421 Through these incisions, the lateral lobes are shelled out by the finger ; care must be taken to avoid injury to the urethra, but it is not always possible to do so. Young advises that ' the incision on each side of the median line should be about 1-5 cm. deep, and be carried up over almost the entire length of the posterior surface of the prostate. The two lines are divergent, being about i-8 cm. apart above and 15 cm. below. The bridge of tissue which lies between them contains the ejaculatory ducts, and its preservation is of importance if the integrity of these structures is to be maintained. It is for this purpose that the initial capsular incisions are made 1-5 cm. deep on each side, and these define at once and correctly the width of the ejaculatory bridge and prevent its being torn as might happen if blunt dissection alone were relied upon.' After the prostate has been removed, a large, soft catheter is passed into the bladder through the wound and fixed in position by a stitch. Fig. 113.—Probe-pointed Gorget. Young uses a double-way catheter for continuous irrigation of the bladder for the first twenty-four to forty-eight hours, after which the catheter is removed. The cavity left after removal of the prostate is lightly packed with gauze, which is removed in forty-eight hours, fresh packing being introduced. The skin wound is partially closed by sutures ; the cavity heals by granulation. At first the urine is passed by the perineal wound. Permanent incontinence may follow if the neck of the bladder or the compressor urethrge are damaged. A fajcal fistula will follow if the rectum is injured ; great care must therefore be taken to avoid damaging the rectum by having it well retracted and the parts fully exposed before the enucleation is begun. If the rectum is injured, the rent should be carefully closed by a double row of catgut stitches. Haemorrhage is often abundant. The operation is more difficult and takes longer than the supra-pubic method. Moreover, the after-results are probably not so good, so that we do not recommend it for the general run of cases. For fibrous enlargement of the prostate, Pardoe recommends the following operation. A median-grooved staff is passed into the bladder, and the patient is placed in the lithotomy position. A small median perineal incision is made into the urethra immediately behind the bulb, and a gorget (see Fig. 113) passed along the groove of the staff into the bladder,