AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX cavity. The treatment of these cases is similar to that for empyema (see Chap. XVII,). Of complications.—It is only necessary to refer here to the pulmo- nary complications, such as bronchitis or pneumonia, and to emphysema. Other affections, such as pneumo- and haemo-thorax, are considered elsewhere. Lung complications. such as bronchitis or pneumonia, must be care- fully watched for, and appropriate remedies—jacket-poultices and the use of a steam-kettle, combined with the administration of expec- torants and chffusible stimulants such as carbonate of ammonia, brandy, or vinum ipecac.—should be employed as soon as the first symptoms appear, and the patient should be propped up as nearly in the upright position as possible. If the breathing becomes increasingly difficult from the engorgement of the right side of the heart—as will be denoted by lividity of the extremities and a full bounding pulse—-venesection (see Vol. I. p. 4) from the arm to the extent of eight or ten ounces will do much good, and may be repeated if necessary in vigorous sub- jects ; in those who are less able to bear the loss of blood, the inhalation of oxygen is valuable if begun sufficiently early, and it may be maintained for a long time. Surgical emphysema.—-This seldom calls for any treatment, as the emphysema rarely does any harm—the air being sterile, and becoming rapidly absorbed as soon as its further escape into the tissues ceases. It rarely interferes with respiration, as it usually spreads from the seat of injury over the affected side of the thorax, and it only makes its appear- ance in the neck when it escapes in large quantities. When the injury to the pleura occurs very high up, the air may, however, extend into the cellular tissue of the neck and may then so seriously interfere with respira- tion that it becomes necessary to let it out. This can easily be done by puncturing the skin in several places with a tenotomy knife over the distended area. In doing this it is important not to withdraw the knife immediately the puncture has been made, but to turn it at right angles to the axis of the small incision so as to keep the aperture open and allow the air to escape. Small gauze and collodion dressings are apphed over the punctures afterwards. DISLOCATION OF THE RIBS. The vertebral ends of the ribs are sometimes dislocated, generally as part of a very severe crush, but the accident is usually only recognised post mortem. Even were it recognised during life, it would be impossible to reduce the dislocation, and no special treatment would be necessary apart from that of the other injuries which may be present.