AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 104 great interest from the point of view of diagnosis, but the treatment offers no points of special importance, except that tracheotomy may be necessary if there is much interference with breathing; otherwise it should be that of tertiary syphilis elsewhere (see Vol. I. Chap. XI.). GOlTRE. Under this term it is usual to include all enlargements of the thjToid gland which are not of an inflammatory nature. Hence goitre is divided into several classes, such as parenchymatous, adenomatous, cystic, exophthalmic, and malignant goitre. The pathological condition differs widely in the difierent cases. PARENCHYMATOUS GOITRE. There is here a general enlargement of the thyroid gland, involving both its secreting and fibrous structures. In the majority of cases the entire gland is affected, although the enlargement may be more marked on one side or in the isthmus. Sometimes one lobe only is affected, but it is very rare for the isthmus alone to be enlarged. When there is a great difference in size between the lobes, adenomata are usually present in addition to the parenchymatous enlargement : the goitre is then often called adeno-parenchymatous. Goitre is endemic in certain regions. In England it is commonest in Derbyshire, where it is known as ' Derbyshire neck.' It is also fre- quently met with in other parts of this country and is very common in Switzerland. It is not as a rule hereditary, and nothing definite is known as to its causes. At one time it was attributed to the presence of salts of magnesium, calcium, etc., in drinking water. It has also been attri- buted to the want of iodine in the water, whilst by others it has been thought to be due to a lack of sunshine, to a cold climate, to the drinking of snow-water. A bacterial origin of goitre has also been put forward, and an attempt has been made to uphold it by pointing out that drinking- water containing an excess of magnesium and other earthy salts, but free from bacterial contamination, has not affected those who consumed it; whilst the drinking of water in the neighbourhood, containing less saline constituents but highly contaminated with bacteria, has been followed by the development of goitre in large numbers of people. Recently, some work has been done which would appear to show that goitre is dependent on a bacterial infection derived from the intestinal tract. Animals supplied with water contaitiing faeces have developed goitre. The improvement which sometimes follows vaccine treatment against the colon group of bacilli would suggest also the possibility of a bacterial origin of this nature.