427 EXTROVERSION Unfortunately, owing to the deformity in tlie pelvis and urethra, it is almost impossible to get an apparatus that will effectually prevent the escape of the urine, and a certain amount of irritation always occurs. The operaiive measures may be divided into two main groups : in the one, attempts are made to restore the anterior wall of the bladder ; in the other, the urine is diverted by transplanting the ureters. The plastic operations on the bladder are accompanied by a distinctly lower mortality than transplantation of the ureters, but their results are not so satisfactory. Plastic operations upon the bladder. — These operations only give an imperfect result even when they are successful in covering the surface of the bladder, because it is impossible to provide a fresh sphincter vesicae which will enable the patient to retain his urine. Cases have been recorded in which as much as three or four ounces of urine could be retained in the cavity formed by the operation, but there is no control over it, Fig. 114.—Thiersch's Operation for Ectopia Vesica. In A the first flap, has been shaped and left attached at both ends, with gauze interposed between its deep surface and the subcutaneous tissues. In B, it has been divided above and turned into place, and the second flap, b, cut in a similar manner. In C, this flap has also been secured in place. and it is always liable to escape involuntarily. Nevertheless, a successful operation of this kind is of value because it protects the mucous membrane from irritation and relieves the patient's suffering very much, whilst it also enables a well-fitting urinal to be worn and thus increases his comfort. These operations should be done as early as possible—from two years of age upwards. The plastic operations are of two kinds : In one variety, flaps are made from the skin ; in the other, the bladder is reconstructed by suture of its own mucous membrane. Of the ' cutaneous ' operations the best is that introduced by Thiersch ; these operations are very rarely done at the present time, as the results are so very unsatisfactory. Thiersch's operation.—In this procedure the bladder is covered by flaps of skin and fascia turned in from the side of the abdomen ; the difficulty is the occurrence of sloughing in the flaps, which must necessarily be long. Thiersch has attempted to overcome this difficulty by cutting a flap of requisite size, undermining it, and leaving it attached at both ends for some days until complete granulation of the raw surface A B C