323 HYPOSPADIAS often is that the narrowing of the urethral orifice has not been recognised and attended to. An unduly small meatus may lead to injurious backward pressure ; moreover, the patient will suffer severely should he contract any form of urethritis. TREATMENT.—Of consiriction of the meatus.—A director should be passed into the meatus, with the groove towards the ventral aspect of the penis, and the urethra is slit up for an eighth to a quarter of an inch. In order to prevent recurrence of the constriction as the wound heals, the divided mucous membrane of the urethra may be sutured to that of the glans (see Fig. 76). The stitches are usually removed at the end of three days. In some cases a free incision has to be made, and when the wound is too extensive to be treated by stitching the mucous to the cutaneous surfaces, a small triangular flap may be raised from the frenum and interposed between the cut lips of the meatus. The apex of the flap should be situated at the point of attachment of the frenum to the penis, and is fastened to the distal end of the urethral mucous membrane with fine catgut ; the flap should be raised before the meatus is slit. Of congenital strictures above the meatus.—These are usually simple diaphragms, which can be divided through a urethroscope (see p. 362). Dilatation should be maintained as in cases of acquired stricture (see p. 383). HYPOSPADIAS. This condition is the result of incomplete fusion of the lips of the uro-genital sinus which forms the urethra, and varies in degree from an unduly large meatus to a completely cleft urethra. This deformity, unlike the somewhat similar condition of epispadias, never extends into the bladder, and incontinence of urine is therefore not one of its complications. In hypospadias affecting the glans penis the inconvenience to the patient may be so slight as to be almost unnoticeable, but it increases the farther back the cleft extends. There are two troubles in connection with hypospadias. In the first place the urethral opening is often unduly narrow and there is consequently some back pressure, from which serious results may follow. Hence in operating on these cases it is always essential to see that the orilice is made of full size. The second important point is that the penis is always curved downwards when the cleft in the urethra extends any distance backwards, and this incurvation is greater the further back the cleft extends. Attempts to straighten the organ are resisted by a fibrous band corresponding to the remains of the uro-genital groove and lying in the position of the normal urethral roof. This incurvation produces much inconvenience, as the urine is projected against the curved organ, the stream is broken up, and the scrotum y 2