MALIGNANT TUMOURS 483 occur. Partial excision of the bladder on these lines is sometimes a very satisfactory operation, and a permanent cure may be obtained, the patient merely suffering from slight frequency of micturition. 2. When the groivth involves the base of the bladder and the opening of the ureter, the problem is more difficult. The widest access possible should be obtained, and there need be no hesitation in opening the peritoneal cavity freely, provided that the intestines are carefully packed off and the abdomen drained afterwards. If only one ureter is affected, a partial excision may still be possible. The growth should be separated all round the papilla of the ureter, and the wall of the bladder divided until the tumour is attached merely by the ureter. With a little manipulation, it is possible to draw about two inches of the ureter into the wound ; the latter is then sewn up with a double layer of sutures, leaving room for the ureter to pass. The growth is now removed by cutting the ureter across inside the bladder, and the open end of the ureter is slit up and then allowed to slip back into its fascial tunnel (which consists of a tube of fibrous tissue and pelvic fascia) ; a uretero-vesical fistula forms, which conveys the urine satisfactorily. If this method is not feasible, the ureter can be grafted into the fundus of the bladder (see p. 540). In these operations not only should the bladder be drained by a tube inserted above the pubes, but a tube should be left in the peritoneal cavity leading down to the wound in the bladder and packed rovuid with gauze if leakage is likely to occur. 3. // the K'hole of the base of the bladder is affected and it is decided to attempt radical treatment, the bladder must be completely extirpated. This is an operation of considerable magnitude, and has been seldom performed, so that it is hardly possible as yet to say exactly what method will ultimately prove to be the best. The best results, on the whole, seem to have been obtained by a preliminary double nephrostomy or ureterostomy, the patient wearing some form of urinal on each loin, but the condition of the patient under such circumstances is very miserable, and it seems much better to leave him alone. The usual transverse incision is made above the pubes, and the abdomen is opened. The peritoneum is then divided around the fundus of the bladder, dissected up from the sides of the pelvis, and the edges sewn up so as to isolate the bladder from the general peritoneal cavity. The bladder is then freed, together with any fat, glands, and fascia in the neighbourhood ; in the male, the prostate and seminal vesicles are usually taken away also. Lastly, the urethra is divided and the bladder taken away, a large tube being inserted to carry off any discharge. If a preliminary nephrostomy is not desired, the ureters may be variously treated ; it has been suggested— I. To let them lie at the bottom of the wound and thus establish a supra-pubic fistula. 11 2