CATHETERISATION OF THE URETERS 509 seen raising up tiie mucous membrane of the intra-mural portion of the ureter. The cystoscope is held firmly in position, and the catheter pushed gently on. When the point is fairly in the ureter, the elevating- screw should be lowered and the catheter runs more easily. My catheters are marked in different colours each half-inch, and there is a single red ring at 6 inches, a double red ring at 12 inches, and three red rings at 18 inches. It is thus possible to tell exactly in what part of the ureter the point of the catheter lies and when it meets obstniction (see Fig. 136). The point lies a little above the brim of the pelvis when the 6-inch mark disappears; and has entered the pelvis when the 12-inch mark passes into the ureteric orifice. If it is intended to catheterise both ureters, a double catheterising cystoscope may be used, or the single catheter cystoscope may be with- drawn, leaving the catheter in position, reloaded and reintroduced. I use a single-barrel catheter cystoscope, as it is seldom necessary to catheterise both ureters simultaneously, and the single-barrel instrument is of smaller calibre, and, therefore, more easily introduced in the male. The difficulties of catheterising the ureters are, firstly, those of cysto- scopy, and none but a skilled cystoscopist should attempt this delicate procedure. An enlarged prostate may render catheterisation of the ureter impracticable, and a tuberculous prostate may cause difficulty by interfering with the freedom of movement of the cystoscope. When cystitis is present, the bladder may not tolerate sufficient distension ; but, to those practised in the operation, two or three ounces capacity will suffice. There may be difficulty in reaching a ureter which opens in the back of a ridge, or of finding the opening in an ulcerated area. The ureteric orifice may be too rigid, or it maybe naturally too small to admit even a fine-pointed catheter. The catheter may be arrested an inch, or one and a half inches, from the orifice in a healthy ureter. This may be due to contraction of the levator ani muscle, or to an over-distended or under-distended bladder. A B Fig. 136,—Thomsom Walker's Graduated Ureteral Catheters. A, shows the probe-ended ones ; B, the blunt-nosed ones.