237 DIFFERENTIAL PRESSURE OPERATIONS air-balloon, which makes the respiration more steady, and if the patient vomits the material passes into this balloon. Compressed oxygen is used in this plan, as well as in the chamber, because in these cases the ordinary air is not sufficient to aerate the blood. A water-valve is inserted in connection with the face-piece (see Fig. 61); which regulates the pressure and also allows the escape of the expired air. Arrangements must be made for the introduction of the anjesthetic, the usual apparatus employed being the Roth-Driiger apparatus. Among the disadvantages of this apparatus may be mentioned the difficulty of maintaining a constant pressure and the fact that if vomiting occurs it may be necessary to with- draw the mask, and consequently the pressure suddenly falls and the p,G. 61. TiEGEL's Mask. M is the mouth-piece from which the tube A leads to the water-valve. A' is the respiration-tube through which the mixture of anesthetic and oxygen under pressure passes to bo inhaled. The pressure can be altered by the valve D. The o.xygen enters the tube, H, under pressure, passes over the anaesthetic in the bag, B, and thence into the respiratory-tube us an anesthetic mixture, in the direction of the arrows, Z. (Gane and Quincke.) lung collapses. At the conclusion of the operation, cessation of respiration may occur and artificial means to restore it must be employed at once. Those who have done most work with differential pressure seem to have come to the conclusion that there is not very much to choose between the positive and negative methods, but that on the whole the negative pressure plan is superior to the other. Anotlier plan has been lately introduced, especially by Meltzer, in wliich the an;csthctic is administered by intra-tracheal insufflation ; this method is referred to in Vol. IV. p. 33. Apart from the adminis- tration of the anaesthetic, the aeration of the lungs is kept up by circulating a large quantity of air (or oxygen, if desired) through them, and to a certain extent it may be reckoned as a positive pressure method which may, in some cases, replace the more elaborate plans referred to above.