224 AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX mentioned in speaking of acute abscess, but sudden death and serious collapse have been known to occur from it. The length of time that the drainage tube should be continued depends largely upon the bacteriology of the case. In pneumococcal cases in children, in which there is no great fixation of the lung, the drainage tube can often be left out about the fourth day and in any case as soon as the discharge becomes serous ; even if distension of the pleura were to take place again, the discharge, being serous, might become absorbed. Godlee suggests that, under these circumstances, a grooved instrument should be introduced every two or three days to prevent granulations blocking the opening and allow the escape of any serum that has collected; if this is done, the closure of the cavity is facilitated. Should the fluid thus escaping be purulent, the tube should be reintroduced. The management of the tube is one of the most important points in the treatment of these cases ; it is essential to maintain strict asepsis. In streptococcal cases drainage must as a rule be carried on much longer than in those due to the pneumococcus. The patient should be kept in bed for a week at least, but if at the end of that time the temperature is normal and the local condition has improved, he may be allowed to sit up and get about; drainage will be more efficient when he is in the erect position. Means should be employed to aid the expansion of the lung, and therefore the patient should not lie always on the sound side, and breathing exercises should be practised. Children should have whistles and similar toys to blow into. Suitable general treatment must be employed, and the patient should go to the seaside or the country if healing is not pro- gressing rapidly enough, provided that he can obtain proper aseptic treatment. Of localised empyema.—The treatment in the localised cases should follow similar lines, but the great difficulty is to find the pus when the collection is small, as the physical signs may be so indefinite that the surgeon may only find the abscess after repeated punctures. When, however, the pus has been found, the needle is left in as a guide, and a portion of the rib above or below it is resected and the empyema evacuated. These cases are usually more favourable in their prognosis because the lung is not bound down to any great extent; indeed, it is frequently adherent to the parietes. Of double empyema.—This is a very serious condition, as the respiration on both sides is embarrassed, and it is not safe to open both pleural cavities simultaneously for fear of causing still further trouble by the production of a double penumo-thorax. The best plan is to open one side and aspirate the other for the time being, the opening of the second side being delayed until the patient has become accustomed to the new condition of affairs. If the respiration is very embarrassed, some of the pus may be drawn off from both sides by an aspirator,