355 GONOCOCCAL URETHRITIS The local treatment is of special value at this period, and takes the form of irrigation or of urethral injections, which may contain antiseptic or astringent substances, according as the object is to kill the bacteria or merely to diminish the congestion of the parts. Urethral irrigation is preferred by many surgeons, and some advocate its use from the first. We are, however, of opinion, for the reasons already given, that it is better to employ the treatment described above for the initial stage of the disease and to commence irrigation when the acuteness of the attack has passed off, although the discharge may be still copious. The apparatus required consists of a douche-can, holding about a couple of pints and capable of being raised or lowered by a pulley A B Fig. 94.—Urlthral Irrigator. A shows the detail of the irrigating tube, which can be protruded from or withdrawn into the glass shield fitting over the glans as may be desired. B shows the method of directing the fluid as it flows back into the glass shield into a drainage receptacle. or any other convenient means. This is connected by a length of rubber tubing to the special end-piece shown in Fig. 94. This consists of a glass bell-shaped shield provided with an opening which is closed by a rubber cork, through which a glass tube passes, which may be furnished with a tap. The end of this tube is fitted to a conical nozzle so arranged that its tip just projects beyond the bell. The irrigator is filled with a dilute sterile solution of permanganate of potash (one grain to the pint). Before use, the apparatus should be sterilised by boiling. The tube is filled with the fluid, the end of the nozzle is passed into the external meatus, and the lotion is allowed to flow into and distend the urethra. If the douche-can is not raised more than two feet above the nozzle there is no risk of the solution passing back into the bladder. As soon as the urethra is fully distended, the flow from the douche-can is cut