54^ INJURIES OF THE URETER ureter is sewn by sutures taking up tlie whole thickness of the walls. The incision in the pelvic peritoneum is then closed, the peritoneum detached from the pubes backwards to the region of the anastomosis, and a drain introduced so that any leakage that may occur shall be extra-peritoneal. The operation may also be done on the principle of Witzel's opera- tion for gastrostomy (see Fig. 147). The abdomen is opened and a small incision made in the peritoneum over the iliac vessels and the ureter isolated. By slight traction, the ureter is then defined in the broad ligament, an incision made through the peritonevmi over it, and the ureter divided between two ligatures by an oblique cut. The distal end is buried, while the pro.ximal end is pulled out through the incision over the iliac vessels; a pair of long forceps is then insinuated behind tlie peritoneum from the abdominal incision near the blad- der up to this point, and the ureter seized and drawn down to the bladder. All the incisions in the peritoneum are then closed, so that the remainder of the operation is done extra-peritone- ally. The bladder is distended with boric lotion and brought over to the affected side, so that the end of the ureter can readily lie upon its upper surface, and is then fastened by sutures to the transversalis fascia. A small opening is next made in the bladder, opposite the point where the lower end of the ureter lies, and the latter is attached to the bladder by two rows of sutures—the first uniting mucous membrane to mucous membrane, and the second joining the muscular coats only. A fold is now made in the bladder, parallel to the ureter, and the lips of this are united so as to form a complete canal, in every respect resembling Witzel's operation for gastrostomy. A catheter is left in the bladder, and a drain carried down through a separate opening in the abdominal wall. Intra-peritoneal methods.—In this group of cases, the ureter is dissected from its bed and di^awn across the peritoneal cavity and the pelvis to reach the bladder. This may be the only way available when much of the ureter has been lost. Vaginal operations.—These fall into two groups : those in whicli the