AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 340 bacteria may spread up the urethra when blood is constantly escaping from it, and, as infection may therefore occur quite apart from the passage of the catheter, it is most important that the urethra should be treated just as any other wound, and an antiseptic dressing applied over its orifice ; the penis should be kept wrapped up in a bag of antiseptic dressing and the meatus should be mopped out and disinfected (see p. 374) immediately before an instrument is passed. When, however, the wall of the urethra has been torn, the problem is a much more serious one. To tie in a catheter in these cases is un- advisable, as it is practically impossible to prevent sepsis spreading up the urethra alongside the instrument, however carefully the latter be disin- fected or however clean the orifice of the urethra be kept. It has been found as a matter of experience that, of the three methods of treatment indicated above, the cases treated by tying in a catheter have presented the greatest mortality, and this is only what might be expected, since the presence of the catheter, while it may prevent extravasation of urine, cannot prevent infection of the wound in the urethra and the tissues around. Moreover, it is very likely to set up irritability of the bladder and then, notwithstanding the continuous drainage, a few drops of urine are apt to pass down alongside the catheter and so reach the wound ; although the urine is not under any pressure and, if aseptic, may do no harm, it furnishes additional pabulum for bacteria, and is therefore apt to increase the septic condition. Hence, in our opinion, the surgeon has only two alternatives in the treatment of these injuries : on the one hand the passage of a catheter at intervals, and on the other external urethrotomy ; considering the great value of the latter method, we see no reason for looking upon it as a last resort. As a matter of fact, the mortality in cases treated in this way is less than in any other, whilst its advantages are numerous. In the first place, it opens up parts infiltrated with blood, so that free exit is given to the discharge and the chances of septic infiltration are lessened. It may, indeed, be urged as an objection to this operation that sepsis will probably occur in the wound, and this is no doubt true, as it is difficult to prevent infection in this situation; but it must be borne in mind that it is even more difficult to prevent infection of the tissues fer urethram when a catheter is tied in, and that a subcutaneous infection is much more serious than one in an open wound which is freely drained. A second great advantage of immediate urethrotomy is that the urethra can be repaired forthwith, so that more rapid and perfect healing is obtained, with a corresponding diminution in the extent and severity of the subsequent stricture ; indeed, the stricture may be quite slight if the urethra has been incompletely divided at the time of the accident and if the rent in it is accurately sutured. This advantage is lost if time is allowed to elapse and the wound has to be opened up at a later stage on account of septic infection or urinary infiltration, as, apart from