ORGANIC STRICTURE 377 quarter of an inch or so and then passed onwards, the penis being kept fully on the stretch. When the face of the stricture is reached, attempts are made to find the opening and insinuate the point of the bougie through it ; this is best done by withdrawing the instrument slightly and then pushing it on in different directions. When the point becomes engaged in the stricture the bougie, if a flexible one, can often be passed through it if a slight rotary movement is im- parted to it so as to screw it through the stricture. In the treatment of tight strictures the so- called ' urethral whips ' (see Fig. 105) may sometimes be used with success. These are long soft instruments tapering from a very fine point to a stout stem, the difference between the two ends being as much as eight or nine sizes. When the point of one of these instruments has passed through the stricture, the rest of it is pushed on until the stricture is well dilated, the fine flexible end curling up in the bladder. These instru- ments have the advantage that most of the dilatation is done at a single sitting. They have the disadvantage, however, that they are not so easy to manipulate as the smaller forms ; their length makes them somewhat unwieldy, and they cannot be twisted through a tight stricture in the same way. After the first sitting, the patient should be kept in bed for twenty-four hours at least, and an interval of three days allowed to elapse before a second is undertaken. At this sitting an instru- ment of the same size as was originally passed on the first occasion should be used first, and two or three more instruments may be passed in succes- sion. Three days are again allowed to elapse, and the third sitting commences with a size larger than that passed first at the second sitting and is carried a little farther. By pro- ceeding in this gradual manner a 9-12 can be , . , , . T ., Fig. 105.ѥ Urethral Whip passed m two or three weeks, and, as a rule, it bougie. is well not to go beyond this for one or two sittings. Over-dilatation may be practised with advantage, however, if it is found that dilatation is proceeding readily, and the stricture may ultimately be dilated up to a No. 15 English. When this stage