410 AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE These symptoms increase as time goes on, and the nocturnal frequency becomes so great as to interfere seriously with the patient's sleep. There is not only difficulty in passing water, but there is severe straining in the effort to overcome the obstruction, and this may lead to haemorrhoids, rectal tenesmus, or prolapse. As the bladder walls begin to atrophy, there is still more delay before micturition can be commenced, and after the act the patient constantly experiences a sensation that he has incompletely emptied his bladder ; this is probably due to the fact that there is a considerable amount of residual urine in the post-prostatic pouch. There is no constant or severe pain as long as there is no cystitis. The examination is made partly per rectum and partly by instruments passed fer urethram. The finger in the rectum will note the undue size of the organ and any irregularity in outline or consistence ; sometimes the prostate is so large that it may be felt bi-manually. By the use of a catheter, the length and direction of the prostatic urethra can be determined. The ordinary gum-elastic catheter moulded to the usual curve for the introduction of instruments into the bladder will not pass readily, because the urethal canal is distorted and elongated. The curve of the instrument should therefore be much increased, and the catheter should be an inch or an inch and a half longer than those in ordinary use, and should be furnished with a stylet to which the necessary bold curve can be imparted. The cystoscope may also be employed and by it the projection of the prostate into the bladder may be seen, and evidence obtained as to whether the whole or only part of the gland is affected, A very important point to make out in examining any case is the amount of residual urine present, as this largely influences the line of treatment to be adopted. The patient is made to empty his bladder as completely as possible, and a catheter is then passed immediately, and any urine left behind drawn off and measured. This is the ' residual urine,' which may vary from a dram or two up to several ounces. The character of the urine must also be taken into account, and the bladder should be sounded in order to ascertain whether a stone is present or not. Complications.—Retention of urine generally occurs in advanced cases, but it may also be met with at a comparatively early period, and indeed it may be the first symptom to attract the patient's attention to his trouble. In the early stage, it is probably due to congestion of the mucous membrane about the vesical orifice, and this may be caused by chills, over-feeding, or excess of alcohol ; in advanced cases, it occurs from the continuous growth of the enlarged prostate, and is especially likely to arise when the prostate projects upwards and back- wards into the bladder, forming the so-called enlargement of the middle lobe, which acts as a ball-valve over the urethral orifice. In these cases it often happens that after the patient has commenced to pass urine,