BRONCHOSCOPY 145 are required. Tracheotomy can be done in adults under local anaesthesia (i per cent, novocaine), and the high operation is better than the low one. The larynx may be cocainised with a 10 to 20 per cent, solution, which should be applied to the larynx, epiglottis, and base of the tongue. For the anajsthetisation of the trachea and bronchi, a 10 per cent, solution should be used. The application of the cocaine is made with small swabs held in suitable forceps. Position of the patient.—For short examinations, under local anaes- thesia, the patient may be in the sitting position ; under other conditions the recumbent position is essential, the head being turned to the right and extended or supported beyond the end of the table. The former position is preferable, as it allows the saliva and mucus to escape more easily from the angle of the mouth. Great care should be taken not to over-extend the head, as this position makes the passage of the tube more difficult. Introduction of the instrument.— Upper direct method.—The instrument Fig. 37.—Forceps for use with the Bronchoscope. These forcepi, like the bronchoscopic tubes, can be lengthened by means of the watch-spring. is sterilised, warmed, and lubricated with liquid paraffin or glycerine. The mouth is widely opened, and the base of the tongue depressed and pushed forwards partly by the instrument and partly by the index-finger of the left hand. The instrument may be passed in the middle line, but it is often easier to pass it from one corner of the mouth. The epiglottis is the first structure to be identified. The instrument is passed over its free border and is then tilted so that the entrance to the larynx becomes visible. By depressing and pressing forwards the distal end of the tube, it is made to enter the cavity of the larynx and is carefully passed down- wards into the trachea. The inner tube is placed in position at this stage and pushed downwards in order to examine the lower portions of the air passages. As the tube is passed onwards, the wall of the trachea and the bifurcation come into view. To investigate the bronchi, the handle of the instrument should be displaced to the side opposite to that which is being examined ; it is easier to see and examine the right bronchus than the left owing to its size and position. Lower direct method.—In this method, the examination of the trachea and bronchi is conducted by introducing the instrument through a tracheotomy wound. A general an;esthetic is often necessary and the epiglottis, larynx, and trachea should be cocainised by painting them with a 10 per cent, solution, in order to abolish the reflexes.