SIMPLE ENLARGEMENT 41.7 plexus of veins is situated. Fibrous bands pass between the sheath and the true capsule of the gland ; it is the separation of these two layers which allows the prostate to be enucleated. The prostate may be removed either from above, the bladder being opened above the pubes—supra-pubic prostatectomy—or from the perineum—perineal prostatectomy. In this country, the former method is the one most extensively employed, but on the Continent and in America, the perineal route is often used. The operation by the perineal route is perhaps more difficult than the other, but in skilled hands the mortaUty of the two operations is about the same, and the choice of the method must be determined on other grounds. When it is found on careful rectal examination that the prostate is markedly enlarged with a definite furrow in the median line between the two lobes, that the surface is smooth and the gland is movable, the case is one suitable for supra-pubic enucleation. Perineal prostatectomy is indicated when the enlargement is fibrous and the prostate is dense and hard. The size of the prostate and the amount of projection into the bladder may sometimes be estimated by a bi-manual examination with the bladder emptied. In thin subjects, and those in whom the abdominal muscles are easily relaxed, this method of examination is very useful, but in stout people and those with rigid muscles, it is difficult and uncertain. The degree of enlargement into the bladder does not necessarily correspond with the apparent size of the prostate as revealed by rectal examination alone. When the prostate is small—and quite a small amount of enlargement may cause severe obstructive symptoms — cystoscopic examination will reveal the amount of projection into the bladder. Supra-pubic enucleation.—A general anaesthetic, or spinal analgesia with stovaine, maybe employed. The latter is very suitable for feeble patients with bronchitis or renal complications, and for those who are corpulent and in whom perfect muscular relaxation is essential. A soft black catheter is first introduced per urethyani, and the bladder washed out with sterilised normal saline solution, and then filled with a fresh quantity of the same liquid. The amount left in the bladder will depend on the capacity of the organ, but it should be sufficient to make the distended bladder easily palpable above the pubes. The first step of the operation is to perform a supra-pubic cystotomy in the manner described on p. 474. The incision in the bladder wall may be made longitudinally or transversely, and must be long enough to allow the finger to be easily inserted. The edges of the wound in the bladder are held up by a stitch on each side, which is inserted before the incision into the viscus is made, so as to prevent the bladder dropping back into the pelvis as the urine escapes. A finger is then introduced into it in order to determine the presence or absence of calculi and the size and amount of projection of the prostate. If calculi are present, they are removed by suitable forceps, and the bladder washed out.