INJURIES OF THE KIDNEY 531 axid quiets the patient. The arm on tlie affected side should be fastened to the chest. A tliird indication is to adopt measures to arrest the hcemorrhage. It is well to clear out the colon by an enema. Nothing but ice should be given by the mouth lest vomitnig should be set up, winch might seriously increase the bleedmg from the kidney. If there is much blood in the urine, it is well to apply cold by Leiter's tubes over the kidney region, front and back. Subcutaneous injections of ergotinine citrate (gr. -^l^-^) should be employed in preference to hemostatics by the mouth ; these should not be given until twenty-four hours have elapsed on account of the risk of vomiting being set up. Among the haemostatics that may be employed internally are gallic acid (gr. x), pil plunabi c. opio (gr. ij-iv), turpentine (111.x) every three or four hours, and dilute sulphuric acid (ll\x-xvj, which may be given with lemon syrup and is comforting when the patient suffers from extreme thirst, as he commonly does. It IS well to empty the bladder both for diagnostic purposes and also because there is often retention from shock, and a distended bladder causes backward pressure, and may lead to increased extravasation of urine or congestion of the kidney. In doing this every possible precaution must be taken to disinfect the orifice of the urethra and the instruments, because infection is especially apt to occur in these cases (see p. 374). In a very short time—sometimes, indeed, from the first—the question of operation must be considered and decided ; the indications for opera- tion are given in full below. If no operation is deemed necessary, the application of cold should be continued, and also, if necessary, the in- jections of ergotinine ; when the stomach has quieted down, dilute mineral acids may be given by the mouth. The diet must be fluid, unirritating, and restricted in amount. About four ounces of milk should be given every two hours. It is desirable to limit the amount of fluid absorbed, so as to minimise the work that the kidney has to do. When obstinate vomiting is present, rectal feeding (see Vol. IV. p. 257) must be employed. The bowels should be cleared out in the first instance, but may then be left alone for a day or two ; after the second day, mild saline purgatives should be given. If the hajmaturia is profuse, the blood may clot either in the ureter or the bladder, and may cause much trouble. Clots in the ureter give rise to attacks of renal colic, and a persistence of this trouble is one of the indications for operative interference. In most cases there is a certain amount of clot in the bladder, but this does not usually give rise to trouble. Operative treatment.—Operation will be called for :— 1. When haemorrhage is profuse, and it is evident that delay may "-ead to immediate death of the patient from loss of blood. 2. When serious hicmaturia persists. 3. When clots in the ureter seriously interfere with the flow of the urine M M 2