ORGANIC STRICTURE 371 whether the instrument is merely arrested by spasm ; the latter usually occurs at the entrance of the membranous urethra. Before concluding that an organic stricture is present and withdrawing the instrument in order to try a smaller one, gentle pressure should be kept up against the obstruction for a short time to see whether the instrument will not pass into the bladder ; as a rule the spasm gives way suddenly. If in spite of this, the instrument will not pass through the triangidar ligament, an organic stricture in the bulbous or bulbo-membranous portion may be diagnosed. Obstruction to the passage of an instmment in the prostatic urethra is due either to enlargement of the prostate or spasm of the sphincter vesica;. After the existence of an organic stricture has been diagnosed, its distance from the meatus should be measured off on the bougie for future reference. The examination does not, however, cease here, as it is necessary to ascertain the length and tightness of the stricture and whether more than one is present. Hence smaller instruments must now be employed, both for examination and also for treatment. When the surgeon has failed to pass a full-sized instmment (No. 12) the next size chosen should be a No. 9-12 Lister's graduated metal bougie Fig. 102.—AcoRK-TippED urethral Bougie. (see Fig. 103) ; should that fail, a No. 7-10 should be tried, and so on downwards, substituting the soft black olivary or acorn-tipped bougies (see Fig. 102) for the metal instrument below a No. 6. It is important to ascertain the length of the stricture, especially when an internal urethrotomy is likely to be required, and this may be done by using bulbous-ended instruments or, better still, the acorn-tipped bougies (see Fig. 102), which not only meet with resistance when they enter the stricture but, owing to the shape of the shoulder, also meet with resistance when an attempt is made to withdraw them through the stricture. In this way the distance both of the anterior and the posterior edge of the stricture down the urethra—and therefore its length—may be ascertained. It is also important to decide whether more than one stricture is present. This is easy if the stricture that is situated nearest the bladder is tighter than those below it ; if the largest instrument that the distal stricture will admit is passed, it will then become arrested by the tighter stricture farther down. If, on the other hand, the distal stricture is the tighter of the two, the proximal one will probably escape recognition until the distal stricture has been dilated beyond the number that the proximal one wiU admit. A final point of some importance about which informa- tion may be obtained is the dilaiability of the stricture. By using graduated bougies, as recommended below, the resistance of the stricture B B 2