AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK ii6 thyroid tissue from the cavity left after removal of the first tumour. The finger is then swept round them and they are turned out; it is seldom necessary to make a fresh incision through the capsule, as the bleeding when boring through the gland is very slight. In this way a large number of adenomata may be shelled out without the necessity for removing any of the true gland-substance. It may, however, be advisable to remove the greater part of the affected lobe as described for thyroidec- tomy (see p. io8) in some cases. It is quite possible, and indeed not unlikely, that adenomata may be left behind if enucleation only is performed, and these may increase and require removal subsequently. While it is best to remove the tumours entire, the capsule is sometimes so thin that it tears. In the case of a cyst of large size, no harm will be done if it is ruptured. The diminution in size may indeed add to the ease of the separation. When, however, soft adenomata have to be removed piecemeal, portions may be left behind and grow again. Hence the capsule of the tumour must be very gently handled so as to avoid this accident. Difficulty may be met with in cases of long-standing cysts in which the walls are calcareous and firmly adherent to the gland in which they lie, and also in cases in which the cyst has been punctured or injected, and inflammation has been set up around it. Under these circum- stances, and also when nearly the whole gland has been replaced by the tumour, it is best to remove the greater part of the lobe in which the swelling lies, and the operation will then be a partial thyroidectomy (see p. io8). Special care must be taken to preserve the recurrent laryngeal from danger, as cysts which have been repeatedly tapped or injected may contract very firm and extensive adhesions. The after-treatment is the same as for th5n:oidectomy. A drainage tube should be introduced either from a separate opening or, if the tumour is small, directly through the wound over the seat of enucleation. INTRA-THORACIC GOITRE. When the thjToid is either generally enlarged or when adenomata are present, it is not uncommon for a part of the lower segment of the swelling to extend behind the sternum and clavicle into the upper part of the chest. Particular care should therefore be paid to this point in the case of any enlargement of the thyroid, because it is an important indication for operation. Moreover, it is always advisable in operating on goitres to pass the finger behind the sternum in order to make certain that there is no tumour in the chest, and this especially applies when there is some difficulty in enucleating an adenoma. In another class of cases, there is often only slight enlargement of the thyroid gland in the neck, and yet on careful examination the presence of a large tumour