AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 76 A transverse curved incision with its convexity downwards is made across the sterno-mastoid extending a httle beyond each border and situated just above the clavicle ; the incision should be below the proposed line of section through the muscle. The skin and subcu- taneous tissues should be dissected up as a flap, which should include all the tissues superficial to the sterno-mastoid ; any vessels which bleed should be ligatured. The deep fascia of the neck is incised along the anterior and posterior borders of the muscle, and the finger or a dissector is insinuated beneath the muscle, so as to raise it and its sheath from the deeper structures. The whole muscle and its sheath is then divided obliquely upwards and backwards from its anterior margin ; this prevents any wide separa- tion between the ends. As the parts are completely exposed, there is little danger of injuring the vessels. The head is now brought into a strongly over-corrected position by an assistant and the wound is ex- plored with the finger to ascertain if any contracted bands remain undivided ; these are very com- monly found. In bad cases the deep cervical fascia in the neigh- bourhood is strongly contracted and many bands require division, and it may be necessary to divide the common carotid sheath before the tension is relieved sufficiently. The contracted bands are best shown by rotating the head to the affected side. In order to effect this properly, the head of the patient should be brought clear over the operating table and moved firmly from side to side until it rotates freely. The head should then be bent over the opposite shoulder and any tense muscles should be carefully kneaded before the wound is stitched up. No drainage tube is used, the edges of the skin being approximated by a subcuticular stitch of horsehair. The maintenance of reduclion.—In cases that are not of long standing all that is necessary after the operation is to place the patient flat on the back, with the head fixed in sand-bags in the corrected position.until the wound has healed. The stitch may be taken out after a week ; mani- pulations, massage and voluntary movements of the muscles can then be commenced, and these often suffice without the use of any apparatus. In long-standing cases, however, great care must be taken in the after-treatment with the view of improving the nutrition and strength Fig. 19.—Division of the Sterno-mastoid by AN OPEN OPERATION. The thick line represents the sldn-incision; the dotted one the oblique division of the muscle.