AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 372 to the dilating force may be gauged to some extent and an idea may be gained as to whether the stricture is readily amenable to dilatation or not. There is considerable difference of opinion as to whether a rigid or a flexible instrument should be used when the smaller numbers (from No. 6 downwards) are required. The advocates of metal instruments argue that with them the surgeon is able to work with greater precision, as he can guide the point in the direction in which he desires it to go, whereas a small flexible instniment is apt to curl up in the urethra and does not take the direction that the hand desires to impart to it. On the other hand those who advocate flexible instruments hold that it is difficult to direct the point of a fine instrument intelligently among the numerous folds met with in the urethra, and further that it is often impossible, even in the most skilled hands, to avoid doing damage to a sensitive urethra. However this may be, it would seem that the wisest plan for those who are not specially skilled in passing bougies is to refrain from using metal instruments'of a smaller calibre than No. 5 English, except under special Fig. 103.—Lister's graduated metal Bougie. circumstances. With the fine flexible instruments they can at least do no harm, and repeated attempts will generally counterbalance early failures. On the other hand, there is a distinct advantage in using metal instm- ments of such a size that their points are not likely to become entangled in the folds of the mucous membrane and are not likely to penetrate the urethra if they do. Metal bougies from No. 6 upwards can be more easily guided and are under better control, while at the same time the resistance imparted to them by a stricture is more easily detected than with a soft instrument. These remarks apply to the passage of instruments whether for investigation or for dilatation. Dilatation.—^The object of this method of treatment is to place the patient in a position in which recurrence of the stricture may be prevented with a little care. Dilatation, moreover, is a necessary preliminary to other methods of treatment, such as most forms of urethrotomy, and it is therefore important for the surgeon to be an adept at it. The instruments used for dilatation may be either rigid or flexible; we have already given indications with regard to the choice of these {vide supra) The best metal bougies are Lister's (see Fig. 103), which