246 AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX PULMONARY TUBERCULOSIS. Of late years—and especially since the introduction of differential pressure—various operative procedures have been suggested, and some have been carried out, with the view of improving or curing tuberculous disease of the lungs. Unfortunately, from the nature of the case, the ^ success which has foUowed these attempts has been slight. Among the conditions which render these cases unfavourable for surgical interference may be mentioned the diffuseness of the lesions—not only in that they commonly affect both lungs, but that they are seldom limited to a small area in one lung—the constant movement of the lung, the frequent association of the tuberculous lesion with sepsis owing to its free communication with the bronchi, the low vitality of the patient, and the vital importance of the organ affected. The following are the chief suggestions which have been made and carried out; the production of artificial pneumo-thorax with the view of producing collapse of the lung, thereby placing the diseased organ at rest and favouring the encapsulation or destruction of the tuberculous foci by the growth of fibrous tissue around them ; resection of ribs with the view of permitting partial retraction of the lung and so favouring healing without throwing the lung completely out of action ; thoracotomy, combined with ligature of the pulmonary arteries ;. extirpation of the diseased lobe ; opening and draining cavities in the lung; and division of the costal cartilages. Of these the only procedures which seem to promise benefit are resection of the ribs and the production of artificial pneumo-thorax. Resection of the ribs has been carried out in various ways in these cases ; sometimes considerable portions of a number of ribs have been removed; sometimes only an amount sufficient to mobilise the chest wall; sometimes the lower ribs are first dealt with and the upper at a later period ; sometimes only the second and third ribs are removed almost entire. This procedure is a much more serious one than the production of pneumo-thorax, and it is only warranted in patients whose condition is good. When the ribs are extensively mobilised, the respira- tion and the heart's action may be seriously embarrassed; the movements of the lung may be much increased, coughing becomes more difficult, and it is necessary to support the parts by a firm bandage. It is doubtful whether this method constitutes any real advance in the treatment of these cases. The production of artificial pneumo-thorax, on the other hand, when employed in suitable cases, is apparently of great value, and is to a great extent free from the risks of the other operations. It consists in the introduction into the pleural cavity, on the affected side, of sufficient air —or, preferably, nitrogen gas—to lead to collapse of the lung. The gas is