AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX 250 and the patient may present himself not only with a hydatid of the pleura, but also with one of the liver. The cyst may rupture into a bronchus and lead to suffocation ; usually, however, the discharge of fluid takes place more slowly, and booklets or portions of the cyst wall may be found in the expectoration. If this has not yet occurred, the •diagnosis of the condition is difficult in the early stages, but much assistance as to the position of the cyst may be obtained by a stereoscopic radiogram—a dark shadow or ring being seen. The blood should be examined for eosinophilia and for fixation of complement. The latter test is made in a similar manner to the Wassermann reaction for syphihs (see Vol. I. p. 508). TREATMEISTT.—When the presence and situation of the hydatid have been made out, portions of two or three ribs should be removed and the lung explored; the further procedure will depend upon whether the hydatid cyst is adherent to the parietal pleura or not. If it is adherent, it is only necessary to incise the cyst and allow its contents to escape, after which efficient drainage is provided. If, however, there are no adhesions to the parietal pleura, the two layers of the pleura must be carefully stitched together before the cyst is opened. No attempt should be made to wash out the cyst. In some cases the cyst has been punctured, and a small quantity of a i per cent, solution of formol has been injected so as to kill the parasites ; five minutes later, the cyst may be opened and the endocyst detached. This usually comes away quite easily, but no attempt should be made to remove the ectocyst. When possible, differential pressure should be employed during the operation. If it is not possible to use this method, the occurrence of a pnemno-thorax is almost unavoidable, but little danger will arise if it is allowed to form slowly. When the cyst is small, the wall may be closed with stitches after the endocyst has been removed, and the opening in the chest is then closed, but in most cases it is advisable to introduce a drainage tube for a few days. NEW GROWTHS OF THE THORAX. Tumours outside the thorax are treated on lines similar to those for tumours of soft parts elsewhere. Tumours of the lung are practically not amenable to surgical treatment, and the only cases which we need consider here are those in which growths arise in connection with the thoracic wall—particularly the ribs—and dermoid cysts growing in the mediastinum. TUMOURS OF THE RIBS. These may be simple—such as exostoses or enchondromata—or malignant, the latter being either sarcomata or carcinomata. Extensive