TUBERCULOSIS 559 the ligature upon the distal portion of the ureter should be left long and brought out of the lower end of the wound, the upper portion of which should be closed. Some days later, when the patient has recovered from the shock, the remainder of the ureter may be dissected out ; the ends of the ligature will act as a guide to the tube. It is always well to remove a diseased ureter even though this may involve a second operation, otherwise a permanent lumbar fistula is almost certain to occur, and the disease may infect the bladder and so spread down the genito-urinary apparatus. In order to remove the ureter at the time the nephrectomy is done, the lumbar incision is carried downwards and forwards as far as may be necessary to enable the surgeon to reach the ureter in the pelvis. The peritoneum is then turned forwards and stripped oft the ureter, which is tied in two places as near the bladder as possible, the stump being treated in the manner described above and a drainage tube inserted down to the seat of its division. When the patient is not well enough to stand this prolongation of the kidney operation, the original wound in the loin need not be opened up again at the subsequent operation, but the lower part of the ureter is identified and divided as low down as possible, by one of the procedures described on pp. 572 et seq. After-treatment.—If suppuration does not occur in the wound, the drainage tubes may be left out in four or five days, but the patient should be kept in bed for three to four weeks so as to allow the incision in the lumbar wall to become firm. Paralysis of a portion of the rectus may follow extensive division of the abdominal wall, and if it does, the patient will have to wear a suitable abdominal belt. If the disease is early and limited to one kidney and ureter, there may be no further trouble in the majority of these cases, and the bladder and other kidney may remain sound. Even if there are a few tubercles in the bladder they may disappear when the infective discharge from the kidney ceases. A few doses of tuberculin, or of Mehnarto's contra- toxin, may be given after the operation. Tlie immediate mortality of the operation should be small.