RENAL CALCULUS 567 point ; with a gum-elastic instrument there is usually no difficulty, but it is desirable to use a metal probe so as to recognise whether a given obstruction is inflammatory or due to a calculus. A stone in the pelvis of the kidney can be removed by stone-forceps. Smaller calculi may be removed by a scoop, but very minute ones should be either flushed out or turned out with the finger. Branched calculi may cause much trouble, as their removal entire would involve extensive laceration of the renal substance, while, if broken up and removed piece- meal, fragments may be overlooked ; the latter procedure is, however, the better plan. The treatment of a calculus in the ureter is dealt with on p. 572. After the stone has been removed, the procedure depends upon whether the kidney is the seat of suppuration or not. When there is no pyelitis, the wound in the kidney or the pelvis is closed completely ; this is also advantageovTs in that it not only avoids a renal fistula but arrests the haemorrhage, but the latter point is not of great importance, as bleeding can be kept under control during the operation by compressing the pedicle of the kidney, and the oozing from the cut surface is generally trifling by the time the operation is concluded. Mattress sutures may be used to close the substance of the kidney as in the case of a laceration (see p. 533), and the capsule is subsequently stitched. A drainage tube is inserted through the incision in the lumbar wall down to the kidney, and the muscles are united by sutures. When pyelitis is present, the renal incision should be left open and a large drainage tube inserted into the pelvis, and a second one into the peri-renal area, and all the structures in the loin should be taken up by deep silkworm-gut sutures, no sutures being buried. If the wound remains aseptic, the tube may be removed on the third day; should leakage of urine take place, it should be retained until this has ceased. Should suppuration occur, drainage must be continued until suppuration has ceased, and then the tube is gradually shortened. When a drainage tube is employed, care must be taken to see that it passes well through the lumbar muscles, otherwise deep- seated suppuration may occur in the loin. The after-progress of the case depends upon whether pyelitis is present or not. After the operation, there may be free hfematuria, if the incision has been made through the kidney substance, and clots may pass along the ureter and give rise to renal cohc, but the bleeding usually ceases after about forty-eight hours. When the stone has been removed through an incision in the pelvis of the kidney there is little or no haematuria. There is often severe shock and pain associated with the operation, and morphine should be given for its rehef if the condition of the other kidney is satisfactory. At first the patient should be kept on a milk diet, but when the hsematuria has ceased, he may have plain, non-stimulating food, with a large quantity of fluid. Enemata should