AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX 2l8 needle. The left forefinger and thumb are used to steady the parts over the iritercostal space as the needle is introduced, and the latter is inserted by a single sharp thrust immediately above the upper border of the lower rib, the depth to which it is to go being fixed beforehand by placing the forefinger upon it at a suitable distance from the point. If care is taken to avoid striking the rib in doing this, the introduction of the needle causes only trifling pain. The exhausting- syringe is then attached and some fluid is withdrawn. Should it not be purulent or, if purulent, should the symptoms not be urgent, it is well to submit the fluid to bacteriological examination before doing anything more, as this may have an important bearing on treatment. Paracentesis thoracis.—When it is necessary to evacuate the fluid from the chest, this should be done by simple paracentesis if the fluid is serous ; if it is purulent, however, this is rarely sufficient. It is true that in the early stages of pneumococcal empyema, when the fluid is just becoming purulent, its removal by paracentesis may suffice for a cvure, but free evacuation and drainage are required in the majority of cases. Para- centesis may, however, be of use in affording temporary relief when, for any reason, the surgeon is not prepared to undertake incision and drainage mimediately, and it may also be useful when there is pus in both pleural cavities, and the surgeon decides to incise and drain one side at a time, the other being aspirated sufficiently to relieve the urgent pressure symptoms. The site of the operation is similar to that for exploratory puncture {vide supra), and the ordinary aspirator with an evacuating-bottle should be used. A canula of fairly large calibre is employed, and it is essential that the point of the trochar should be sharp ; it is usually well, in nervous patients, to inject novocaine before puncturing the skin. As soon as the canula is in, the trochar is withdrawn and the bottle is attached. It is important not to keep the vacuum in the bottle too high, otherwise the rush of fluid may dislodge masses of lymph which may block the needle, or the lung may be sucked against the point and either plug it or be punctured and bleed freely. The best plan is to keep the ex- haustion at such a point that the fluid runs steadily and fairly slowly, and this allows the intra-thoracic organs to accommodate themselves to the altered conditions. If the flow becomes arrested, it will probably be due to lymph blocking the orifice of the canula, and a plunger several sizes smaller than the canula should be passed down the latter so as to dislodge the lymph. The reason for using a small plunger is that it can not only be used to push the mass of lymph away but also may be left in situ, so as to keep the lymph from falling back over the orifice of the tube, as it would very probably do were a plunger used which fitted the canula closely, and which therefore must be removed before the flow could be re-estabUshed. Paracentesis must be discontinued if the patient should faint or if