592 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER or only a trace. They usually give rise to no symptoms until a definite tumour has formed, when they are easily detected, but may be mistaken for a hydronephrosis. TREATMENT.—Puncture has been recommended, but it is almost certain that the cyst will re-fill, and the proper line of treatment is either to excise the cyst or to incise and drain it. If the cyst is small and single, the simplest plan is to excise it, along with a thin layer of the renal parenchyma, through a lumbar incision. The bleeding is easily stopped by deep sutures passed through the renal tissue (see p. 533). When the cyst is very large, it may be better to lay it open and stitch the cut edges to the skin, after sponging the surface of the cyst wall over with undiluted carbolic acid. Heahng will take place after a time, but this method is inferior to excision when that is possible. Primary nephrectomy is not called for, but it may occasionally happen that a permanent urinary fistula is established in the loin, and for the cure of this the patient may insist on a secondary nephrectomy. HYDATID CYSTS. These cysts are comparatively rare, and follow the same course as hydatids elsewhere. The affection is usually not noticed until a tumour of considerable size has formed, unless the cyst bursts into the renal pelvis, when there will be attacks of renal colic and the passage of small ' daughter-cysts.' The diagnosis is often extremely difficult. If the cyst has burst into the renal pelvis, ' daughter-cysts ' will be passed; if the tumour is punctured after being exposed, examination of the fluid will reveal its nature. TREATMENT.—This consists in stitching the cyst wall to the skin, drawing off as much of the fluid contents with a trochar and canula as possible, and then laying the cyst freely open, washing out the cavity, and removing the endocyst; a drainage tube is inserted In some cases, however, the kidney is so completely destroyed that nephrectomy is the only possible treatment. CYSTIC DEGENERATION OF THE KIDNEY. This rare disease is also known as ' polycystic disease of the kidney,' and is seldom amenable to surgical treatment. It is bilateral in the great majority of cases, although the condition is usually more marked on one side than on the other. The liver and the spleen may also be similarly affected. The cysts are very numerous, and as the disease progresses, symptoms of degeneration of the kidney set in and the patient usually dies of uraemia. It has been suggested that the kidney in which the disease is most advanced should be removed, but this—at any rate, in some cases—has apparently been followed by a rapid