INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THYROID GLAND 103 most likely to occur when the inflammation follows an injury, an acute specific fever, or general septic disease. The gland enlarges rapidly and becomes tender, the skin over it becomes red and oedematous, and there may be dyspnoea and considerable interference with swallowing. The patient's general condition is grave, the constitutional symptoms being severe and out of all proportion to the extent of the inflammation. The probability is that this is due in some way to interference with the secretion of the gland. Thrombosis and pysemia are not uncommon sequekc of an acute suppurative thyi'oiditis, and this is not surprising when the extreme vascularity of the gland—• particularly its richness in large veins—^is considered. There is also a tendenc}^ for the pus to make its way into the cellular tissue of the neck or into the trachea or oesophagus. When the abscess is situated deeply in the gland, the difficulty of diagnosis is great, and the patient's condition may be very serious. TREATMENT.—In the first instance a purge, e.g. calomel gr. v, followed by a saline, should be given, and the source of the infection looked for. Where this is due to some local condition, appropriate treat- ment for its removal should be adopted. When the disease is associated with some general condition, the latter must be treated on ordinary lines. Thus, ui rheumatic patients the administration of salicylate of soda is called for ; in malarial cases, or those due to typhoid fever or occurring in connection with septic processes, the administration of quinine (in 5- to lo-grain doses every four hours) may be useful. Locally, four to eight leeches should be applied over the enlarged gland, and these should be followed by hot fomentations to promote bleeding. Large hot fomentations are the best means of relieving the pain and the difficulty in swallowing. When suppuraiioii occurs—as will be indicated by marked and increasing oedema of the skin, combined with a high temperature and an area of softening—early incision should be practised ; great care must be taken to avoid injury to the large venous trunks. The best plan is to open the abscess by Hilton's method (see Vol. I. p. 28), making the skin incision along one of the natural folds of the neck. As the abscess may be deeply placed, the incision must be large enough to enable the surgeon to see what he is doing, and efficient drainage must be provided by means of a large tube. If the pus has formed within an encapsuled tumour (cyst or adenoma) an attempt should be made to enucleate the tumour as well. The other inflammatory affections of the thyroid gland hardly require notice, as they are excessively rare. Tuberculosis, either as part of a general infection or as a localised deposit, may occur in the thyroid gland as elsewhere, and the treatment must be the same as for tuberculous disease in general. Syphilis of the thj^roid also occurs in the form of a gummatous infiltration of the gland in the tertiarj^ stage. This is of