CYSTOSCOPY 503 CYSTOSCOPIC APPEARANCES IN DISEASE OF THE BLADDER AND KIDNEYS.—Only a short note of the abnormal conditions found in the bladder can be given. In the hypertrophied bladder of urethral obstruction (enlarged pros- tate or stricture), the bladder is trabeculated. The mucous membrane is raised up in ridges, which are usually thick, fleshy, and interlaced. The trabeculation affects the whole bladder, and the trigone becomes involved, so that there may be difficulty in tracing the inter-ureteric bar and in finding the ureteric orifice. When sacculation of the bladder is present, depressions appear between the fleshy trabeculte, and pockets, varying in depth, are formed. These differ from congenital diverticula in being shallow and oval, round or irregular in shape, and in their number. In diseases of the spinal cord (especially tabes), a very pronounced trabeculation of the bladder is found. This is distinguished from hypertrophic trabeculation in the ridges, being thin and sharp, and sometimes very long, and the trigone is not affected. This condition is, I believe, an atrophy, not a hypertrophy. Congenital diverticula are single or multiple ; frequently there is a large single diverticulum. The most common situation is behind or outside the ureteric orifices. The orifice is round—rarely oval—and appears as a solitary opening. Around the orifice, the mucous membrane is frequently thrown into radiating folds, and there may be some trabeculation in the immediate neighbourhood. The rest of the bladder is usually normal. Cystitis is found in many grades, and may be general or localised to one part. General cystitis is much less frequent than might be supposed. The most frequent condition is cystitis which involves the trigone or the base of the bladder, and has followed upon some urethral inflammation. Or it may be more marked on one side of the base and surround the ureteric orifice. Patchy cystitis may be observed, when there are scattered areas of cystitis over the whole mucous membrane. In general acute cystitis, cystoscopy is rarely advisable. In cystitis, the light-reflecting power of the bladder is diminished, and the mucosa is dull and light-absorbing. In the earliest stage, the vessels are engorged, and appear greatly increased in size and in numbers, and anastomose freely. Later, the outline of the vessels becomes indistinct, and the mucous membrane presents a woolly, reddened appearance. Then the vessels entirely disappear, and in acute inflammation the mucous membrane is light red, and has lost all its fine texture and vessels. Flakes of muco-pus adhere to the surface, and shreds of partly detached epithelium are seen. When there are patches of cystitis, the different stages can be traced from the periphery towards the centre. In chronic cystitis, the mucous membrane is dull red and opaque,