AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 378 has been reached, the interval between the passage of the instniments may be increased. In the fii-st place the interval may be four or five days ; then a week may be allowed to elapse ; then ten days, and then a fortnight. After that, an instrument should be passed once every two or three weeks for several weeks, when the interval may be increased to a month or two, or even three. It is well, however, not to allow the patient to abandon instrumentation entirely, otherwise recur- rence is apt to take place as time goes on. The surgeon should pass an instrument at least once or twice a year, both because it is advisable that he should see whether there is recurrence and also because he can do it better than the patient himself. If, however, the patient is so situated that he cannot have instruments passed by a surgeon, he should use a soft black tapering bougie, the tip of which measures No. g and the shaft 12 or 13 ; this can be got through the stricture quite easily and without any risk of damage if it is well oiled and warmed. He should pass an instrument of this kind every three months, keeping it in position for ten or fifteen minutes, and the procedure should be repeated oftener if there is any difficulty. He should never be taught to pass metal instruments, otherwise he is very Likely to do damage. When a patient passes instruments for himself, the greatest stress must be laid upon the necessity for using absolutely sound instruments. Any instrument that shows cracks or any imperfection should be destroyed at once and a sound one substituted. Patients are very apt to use rough and cracked instruments, which easily damage the mucous membrane. They must also be specially instructed as to the antiseptic precautions. Continuous dilatation.—^This method is not to be recommended save under exceptional circumstances. When, for instance, a catheter has been introduced into the bladder with difficulty through a tight stricture in a patient suffering from retention, tying in the instrument insures evacuation of the bladder, while at the same time it leads to absorption of the stricture, and subsequent instrumentation will be facilitated. Again, in a stricture which is too rigid to yield to intermittent dilata- tion, continuous dilatation may be tried before resorting to a cutting operation. It should never be employed, however, when there is grave cystitis or renal disease ; in these cases dilatation of any kind should be avoided. The objections to the continuous method are chiefly those due to the presence of an instrument in the urethra ; this is apt to give rise to urethritis, which may spread into the bladder and be followed by cystitis. In continuous dilatation a catheter is introduced through the stricture, tied in position, and left for twenty-four hours. The instrument should lie comparatively loosely in the stricture, and there is no need to pass the largest size that the stricture will admit. At the end of twenty-four or forty-eight hours, some dilatation of the stricture will have taken place, and an instrument one or two sizes larger can then be easily introduced