374 AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA at some arbitrary number, say, No. 7. No hard and fast rule, however, should be applied to these cases, and the surgeon must be guided by circumstances. He should always err if possible on the side of going too slowly. If the stricture is tight and instruments are passed with difficulty, a certain amount of splitting will result if the dilatation is effected too rapidly, and much inflammation and swelling may foUow, accompanied by risks of septic absorption. Attempts to dilate the stricture up to No. 12 or 14 at the first sitting are likely to end in a considerable amount of damage. The cure of a stricture by dilatation is, however, not a purely mechanical one ; in some way that is not clearly understood, the passage of an instrument through a stricture leads to absorption of the inflammatory products, and this plays a far more important part in the cure than the mere stretching occasioned by its introduction. If the stricture is so rapidly stretched that it is actually torn, there is a risk of inflammation occurring, and this will be followed by the formation of new fibrous tissue, which contracts, and so defeats the object of the dilatation. If the stricture is very tight, the best plan is to try a second, after passing one instrument, and, if that passes, to be content, for the stricture will then be dilated four sizes. In strictures however that are easil}^ dilatable, the process may be safely carried beyond this point, and three or four instruments may be passed in succession. If the attempt to pass the second instrument does not succeed at once, it is better to desist rather than to irritate the urethra by prolonged attempts, and the surgeon may be satisfied on the first occasion with having succeeded in passing the stricture ; on the second there will not be the same difficulty. Disinfection of catheters.—When catheters are employed, the greatest care must be taken to avoid infection of the bladder, and the first question is the disinfection of the instrument. In the case of metal or red-rubber catheters this is readily done by boihng ; the patient may carry his rubber catheter about with him in a large test-tube provided with a metal case. Before use, the tube is filled with water above the level of the catheter, and is boiled for at least five minutes. After use, the catheter is thoroughly rinsed in warm water and placed in the test-tube again. The effectual disinfection of black and gum-elastic catheters is a matter of difficulty. They are ruined both by boiling and by strong antiseptics, and, although i in 1000 sublimate may be syringed through them and the catheter immersed in the solution for a short time, they must not be kept in it for any length of time, and they seldom last long even then. A flexible catheter that can be boiled repeatedly without deteriora- tion is made by Forges of Paris (see p. 413). A usual plan is to syringe the catheter after use with warm water, and place it in a long tube containing a solution of i in 1000 perchloride of mercury in glycerine until required again, when the sublimate is rinsed away with hot water. Formalin