40 AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER and the gaU-bladder or bile-duct. The tendency to spontaneous cure is, however, shght; as a rule the best that can be hoped for from palliative measures is a long period of quiescence. The prognosis is much im- proved by early operation, and there is then little danger accompanying operative interference; this cannot be said of the cases operated upon late in the disease, especially when cholangitis or cholecystitis is present. We may divide the cases met with in practice into six large groups :— 1. The gall-bladder contains gall-stones, but the cystic duct is patent. 2. The presence of stones in the gall-bladder is complicated by the passage of a gaU-stone along the cystic duct. 3. The cystic duct is occluded either by a stone impacted in it or by inflammatory adhesions resulting from the antecedent passage of a stone. This may lead to a hydrops of the gall-hladder, in which the organ contains a glairy, viscid, mucoid fluid ; or to an empyema of the gall-hladder in which the contents are purulent. 4. A stone is passing along the common duct on its way to the duodenum. 5. A stone is permanently impacted in the common duct. 6. Cases presenting many of the symptoms of gall-stones, in which, when the abdomen has been opened, no gall-stones are found either in the gall-bladder or the bile-ducts, but instead extensive adhesions external to these structures or cholecystitis or cholangitis may be present. TREATMENT.—The first point for decision is whether opera- tive interference is required. The following are our own views as to the indications for operation and the most suitable operative procedures : — Whilst palliative measures may suffice for mild cases, it is im- probable that they can ever produce more than a prolonged latent period ; they are therefore not curative, and a blind adherence to them may end in the surgeon missing the most favourable time for successful operative interference. It is so difficult to gauge the extent of the affec- tion without opening the abdomen that no reliable criteria are available as to which cases are likely to be benefited by palliative measures. In favour of operation is the fact that it removes all the stones and drains the gall-bladder, whereby any cholecystitis is cured. At the same time there is no certainty that fresh stones will not form after cholecystostomy; and even after cholecystectomy it is possible for stones to form in the hepatic duct ; both events, however, are exceptional. Another point of practical importance is that in early cases there is no risk of that serious bleeding which is met with so often in those who are the subject of persistent and profound jaundice.