OPERATIONS ON BRONCHIECTATIC CAVITIES intercostal muscle on the other, must be included in the stitches. Strips of gauze may now be laid along the line of suture to catch the pus, and the suppurating cavity is explored and opened in the manner just described. If the lung tissue is breaking down, a free opening should be made into the cavity, the contents sponged out, and the cavity thoroughly inspected—if necessary, by artificial illumination. All loose sloughs are removed, any cords crossing the cavity which generally contain blood- vessels are ligatured and divided, and, if oozing is still going on, the cavity is plugged with iodoformed gauze. Sloughs which have not yet separated should be left alone and will come away later. After-treatment.—The tube is left in situ for two or three days until its track is well established, when it may be removed, washed, and re- placed ; it should be prevented from slipping into the thorax by passing a safety-pin through its outer end. The abscess cavity should never be washed out; the tube should be retained until the discharge is mucoid in character and all expectoration has ceased. If the cavity has been plugged, the gauze should be removed on the second or third day, and if necessary it may be renewed; large drainage tubes should, however, be sub- stituted for the gauze packing as soon as possible. It is suggested that the expansion of the lung tissue should be aided by making the patient breathe air under increased pressure for ten minutes once or twice a day. If the patient is going to recover, the wound generally heals rapidly, but where larger bronchi are involved in the gangrenous process, a bronchial fistula may be left. ^ Among complications which may arise during the after- treatment may be mentioned secondary hjemorrhage, extension of the pneumonic process, pleurisy, and empyema. CHRONIC NON-TUBERCULOUS CAVITIES. These are the most suitable cases for surgical interference, but they are only very occasionally met with in practice. When they occur, they are usually due to abscesses that have formed elsewhere and have ruptured into the lung, the typical example being an abscess of the liver. It is obvious that if the abscess can be diagnosed and locahsed, and the surgeon is able to drain it, the chances of recovery are exceptionally good, as the rest of the lung is healthy, and drainage of the abscess may be carried out at its most dependent part. The piinciples of treatment and after-treatment are exactly similar to those for pneumonic abscess. BRONCHIECTATIC CAVITIES. The great diificulty here is that the condition is generaUy extensive, and the drainage of one cavity does not necessarily imply the free di^ainage of others ; moreover, the bronchiectasis is not necessarily limited to one R 2