27 HYDATIDS HYDATIDS. The liver is a common seat of hydatid cysts, nearly half of all the cases of echinococcus infection occurring in this viscus. This is explained by the fact that the embryos present in the intestine find their way through its wall, enter the portal vein; and are carried thence to the liver. They occur far more frequently in the right than in the left lobe. Usually there is only a single cyst and it may attain a large size. There may, however, be many cysts scattered through the liver, varying in size from a small pea to a large orange, or many cysts may be aggregated together and form a large lobulated mass. The cyst is siurounded by a capsule of connective tissue which forms a dense wall, and is developed from the organ or tissue in which the cyst lies. Internal to this con- nective-tissue capsule lies the true cyst wall, which is a laminated chitinous structure without any cellular or fibrous elements, but which is apparently penetrated by the juices of the body which thus nourish the parasite. The inner surface of the true cyst wall is lined by a delicate parenchymatous layer in which are developed the young heads or scolices, which may number many thousands and may remain for a long time or even permanently connected with this membrane ; more frequently; however, they become detached and float in the fluid in the parent cyst leading to the usual appearance of a large cyst full of numerous smaller or ' daughter ' cysts. The parent cyst often contains a large amount of fluid, mainly consisting of water with some 2 to 3 per cent, of salts in solution, chiefly chloride of sodium. There is no albumen, but succinate of soda seems to be constantly present in hydatid cysts of the liver, and a substance resembling sugar may also be found ; this does not occur in echinococcus cysts elsewhere, so that it may have a certain diagnostic value. Examination of the blood may show eosinophilia and the presence of some substance which fixes complement. As the cyst grows it destroys that portion of the liver in which it lies, and may ultimately become adherent to some other structure or it may rupture into the peritoneal cavity, the pleura; the intestine, or more rarely, the gall-bladder or the pelvis of the kidney. The larger vessels and the bile-ducts are rarely affected by the pressure, but ascites and jaundice may sometimes occur. Occasionally the cyst dies and shrivels up or remains stationary and becomes calcified ; on the other hand, suppuration and hepatic abscess may occur. In some cases, there are slight constitutional synip/oms, such as attacks of urticaria—probably from escape of some of the fluid either into a blood-vessel or into the peritoneal cavity. The liver becomes enlarged as the tumour grows, and may be tender. The enlargement may be uniform or irregular according as the cyst is situated deeply