463 CALCULUS stone to find, its way into one of the sacculi, where it increases in size to such an extent that it cannot escape from it. Occasionally, tlie stone becomes arrested at the vesical orifice of the ureter on its journey from the kidney, and may lie partly in the bladder and partly in the ureter.' In other cases, the calculus may be adherent to the mucous membrane of the bladder, especially when the latter is ulcerated. The surface of an ulcer or growth may also become encrusted with phosphates, and all the symptoms of stone may be produced. In the early stages, the bladder may be normal, but cystitis super- venes after a time, especially if instruments have been passed. Cystitis increases the sufferings of the patient very much, and phosphates become deposited in large quantities on the stone. The classical symptoms of stone in the bladder are pain, frequency of micturition, and hcematuria. The pain occurs towards the end of the act of micturition as the bladder contracts upon the calculus ; it is usually referred to the glans penis, and may persist untiJ sufficient urine has been secreted to separate the bladder wall from the stone. Exercise also brings on attacks of pain owing to the movement of the stone, and it is charac- teristic that the pain entirely disappears in certain positions and is generally absent at night. Hcematuria is an important symptom, and may occur quite early in the case; it is increased by movement. As a rule, a few drops of blood are expelled towards the end of the act of micturition ; the bleeding is due to injury of the bladder wall from contact with the stone. The amount of bleeding is slight as compared with that which occurs in connection with vesical tumours. Frequency of micturition varies very much ; it depends largely on movement and on the presence of cystitis. Sudden interruption of the flow of urine, accompanied by sharp pain in the glans penis, often occurs, and this is very characteristic of a small stone falling over the orifice of the urethra. A valuable point is a history of previous renal colic, and this should always be carefully inquired for. When the stone has formed primarily in the bladder there may be a history of previous disease of the bladder, such as cystitis. In the diagnosis of stone, palpation, sounding, cystoscopy, and radio- graphy may be employed. A large stone may be detected by bi-manual rectal or vaginal palpation, but this method is not of much value except in spare subjects and in young children and in females. It usually requires general anjesthesia, but when full relaxation has been obtained, the stone, if large, may be felt between the two hands. X-rays are of the greatest value in these cases, inasmuch as the size, shape, number, and density of the stone can be estimated. In children' moreover, it is not always easy to sound the bladder without producing a good deal of irritation, and an accurate diagnosis may be made on a