447 ACUTE CYSTITIS a dram of which may be introduced and left in the bladder. Iodoform and glycerine emulsion (lo per cent.) has also been used. " In cystitis due to lesions of the spinal cord, the affection is rarely acute. Frequent irrigation of the bladder should be employed, and this is done through a catheter possessing a backward flow. The irrigation should be begun directly the tube has been introduced into the external meatus, and the instrument should be passed slowly down into the bladder ; boric and various other weak antiseptic lotions may be used twice a day, and the irrigation is best done with a funnel {vide infra). After each irrigation, half an ounce of a solution composed of two ounces of glycerine, one ounce of biborate of soda, and two oimces of water, may be injected into and left in the bladder. When there is a lagre quantity of viscid muco-pus which the bladder cannot expel, the irrigation may be performed with a solution containing a quarter to half a grain of salicyHc acid with two or three grains of biborate of soda to the ounce. The administration of urinary antiseptics (see p. 446) by the mouth is of great value. Should there be retention with overflow, a catheter must be tied in for a few days (see p. 342) so as to provide for continuous drainage, and subsequently a catheter should be passed at intervals of six to eight hours and irrigation employed as above described. Scrvipulous care must always be taken with the aseptic management of the case. When there is true incontinence, no catheter is necessary, and the patient need only be provided with a suitable urinal, but the glans penis and the meatus should be frequently washed with i in 2000 subhmate solution, and the urinal should be frequently changed and disinfected. In membranous or gangrenous cystitis, the bladder is practically a foul abscess cavity into which urine flows, and nothing but perfect drainage will give the patient a chance. Catheterisation, or irrigation of the bladder, will not meet the requirements of the case ; the bladder must be opened either above the pubes or from the perineum. A median perineal section (see p. 348) is the best method. A large drainage tube is inserted into the bladder and connected with a longer tube by means of a small piece of glass tubing through which the flow of urine can be inspected ; the end of the tube is carried into a basin containing i in 2000 sublimate solution. lodoformed gauze is packed around the tube and an antiseptic dressing applied outside. If the patient can bear it, the bladder should be irrigated from time to time by attaching a funnel to the end of the tubing and running warm sahne solution or boric lotion in and out of the bladder. It is essential not to introduce air into the bladder, and therefore the tube and funnel should be filled with fluid and clamped before being attached to the glass tube. The funnel is then raised about a foot above the level of the pelvis, and the fluid run in very gradually. If the patient experiences discomfort, or a desire to evacuate the bladder, the funnel should be lowered and the