264 AFFECTIONS OF THE PENIS gauze around the line of union and lay a large layer of wet boric lint over this, so as to cover the whole penis and scrotum; this is covered with oiled silk or jaconet, and kept in position by the child's napkin. The mackintosh and the larger piece of lint are removed when the napkin is changed, and the glans is douched afterwards with warm boric lotion. Fresh outer dressings are then applied, and this is repeated for a few days until the parts have healed. If ribbon gauze has been employed it can be soaked off after two or three days ; boric lint will usually have fallen off after about twenty-four hours, and it will then suffice to lay a piece of wet boric lint over the part. The stitches may be removed on the fourth or fifth day if they have not become absorbed. The child should be kept in bed for the first three or four days, otherwise the friction of the clothes against the wound may cause pain. (b) Of acquired phimosis. — When operation is required for contraction after healing of a venereal sore or after balanitis, it may, if desired, be performed as above described ; in these cases comparatively little of the prepuce need be removed. When, however, the patient does not desire complete ckcumcision, a very useful method is to slit up the prepuce in the middle line of the dorsum to a sufficient extent to allow the glans to be thoroughly uncovered and then to unite the mucous to the cutaneous surfaces along the line of incision so as to convert it into a V-shaped opening which enlarges the preputial ring. As healing progresses, this V-shaped notch gradually becomes opened out, until finally it disappears entirely, and in place of it there is a preputial orifice of sufficient size. Ordinary circumcision, however, is preferable to this operation, especially if there are extensive adhesions between the glans and the prepuce. PARAPHIMOSIS. This term implies inabihty to draw the prepuce forward again after it has been retracted over the glans. It generally occurs when the preputial orifice is somewhat nan-ow, either congenitally or for some other reason. If a tight prepuce has been retracted and kept back for some time the constriction exerted by the preputial ring leads to oedema of the prepuce, and it is then difficult to puU the prepuce forward again. If this condition of affairs lasts for some time, the swelling increases and ulceration of the mucous membrane takes place at the point of constriction. The appearance of a typical case of paraphimosis is quite characteristic. Immediately behind the corona glandis there is a fold of oedematous mucous membrane, which is often so distended with fluid as to be quite translucent. Behind this is a deep groove, at the bottom of which is seen the constricting band formed by the preputial ring which will show a if