391 ORGANIC STRICTURE probe-pointed, broad director (see Fig. no) is passed through the incision to the apex of the prostate, where it enters the urethra and so reaches the bladder. Along this a No. 12 gum-elastic catheter is passed and tied in, so as to drain the bladder through the perineal opening. Haemorrhage is slight and can be controlled easily by pressure. The wound should be sponged with chloride of zinc solution (gr. 40 to the ounce) and a long india-rubber tube attached to the catheter so that the urine is drained off continuously ; no attempt is made to deal with the stricture for several days. At the end of a week or ten days, when the con- dition of the bladder has improved, the congestion about the stricture will probably have diminished sufficiently to allow catheterisation to be effected and then the stricture becomes amenable to the ordinary treatment. (e) Of strictures complicated by peri-urethral abscess.—When tlie urethra behind the stricture becomes dilated and inflamed, ulcer- ation may occur and infective material may spread, either through the ducts of the mucous glands or through some abrasion in the mucous membrane, into the peri-urethral tissues and there set up an abscess which in the first instance may be shut off from the urethra. As it increases in size, the abscess spreads towards the urethra on the one hand and the skin on the other, and generally ends by bursting first into the urethra and afterwards through the skin. The result of- this is a perineal urinary fistula. It is not uncommon for other abscesses to form, and in this way several external openings may be formed; as a rule there is only one orifice in the urethra to which they all lead. These peri-urethral abscesses often commence in Cowper's glands. When the abscess bursts into the urethra early, urine finds its way into the abscess cavity—the condition sometimes spoken of as a urinary abscess—and this results in rapid increase in the inflammatory condition. If only a small quantity of urine finds its way into the abscess cavity, a urinary fistula will form when the abscess makes its way through the skin ; sometimes, however, the opening into the abscess is wide and urine enters freely, and then, when'the patient micturates, the pressure in the abscess may be very great if the structure is tight, and the wall may give way and sudden extravasation of urine (see p. 394) may take place. Peri-urethral abscesses usually form in the perineum below or behind the urethra and cause much pain. Rigors generally occur and all the symptoms of acute inflammation are present. When the abscess bursts into the urethra pus flows from the meatus, sometimes independently of micturition, sometimes only when the patient urinates if the stricture is very tight. The earlier these abscesses are opened by the surgeon from the outside the better, and if this can be done, and the stricture dilated at the same time, no urinary fistula may form. In some cases, however, the abscess is situated'close to the urethra, and, even though the abscess is incised before it has burst into the urethra, the thinned mucous membrane will