AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 386 grooved surface towards the floor. The patient is then placed in the hthotomy position on a table immediately in front of a window in a good light. An assistant takes charge of the handle of the staff and makes the lower end prominent in the perineum by pushing it down, while the surgeon, sitting with his back to the light, cuts down on the end of the staff in the perineum. The exact position of the incision will depend upon the seat of the stricture, but it usually extends from the mid-point of the perineum forwards for about an inch to an inch and a half—that is to say, the strictures requiring Wheelhouse's operation are usually situated in the bulbous or the membranous portions. The tissues are incised until the urethra is exposed, when the lower end of the staff is felt and the urethra is opened upon the groove in it by a single clean cut extending downwards to its end. It will be noticed that the groove in the staff does not extend quite to the lower end of the instrument. It is important for the success of the operation that the incision in the urethra should not reach quite down to the edge of the stricture otherwise the guide formed by the floor of the urethra would be lost. Fig. 109.—Wheelhouse's Staff for External Urethrotomy. The edges of the slit in the urethra are now seized in fine catch-forceps or a thread is passed through them on each side, and the staff is turned round so that the hook projects through the opening ; it is then pulled up slightly so as to cause the hook to catch in the upper angle of the wound and put it on the stretch. When full retraction has been made, a triangular or somewhat lozenge-shaped wound appears in the urethra, at the bottom of which the surgeon looks down upon the face of the stricture. A good plan is to retract the cut edges of the urethra with threads fastened to the skin of the buttock on each side. All oozing is now carefully stopped, and the orifice through the stricture is sought for with a fine probe or a canaliculus director. Tliis is the most diflicult part of the operation, and it is often a matter of the greatest trouble to detect the passage. The best plan is to pass the probe along the roof of the urethra and, if tliis fails, a useful procedure is to press upon the bladder above the pubes, when the escape of urine through the stricture will give a clue to its orifice ; it is therefore well not to have the patient's bladder emptied before the operation. Immediately the orifice is detected, a probe is slipped in along it and kept in position. A powerful light is essential, as well as great patience and careful sponging. After a probe has been passed through the stricture, the rest is com- paratively easy. If a canalicxilus director is used, a fine probe-pointed