210 AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX injury results from fracture of the ribs, sternum, or costal cartilages, the parietal pericardium alone may be torn, but when it is due to a penetrating wound, the heart is generally also punctured. TREATMENT.—Injury to the parietal pericardium requires no treatment per se, but when it is associated with an external wound the parts must be disinfected, and if there is any likelihood of sepsis, a drainage tube should be introduced, which just projects into the pericardial sac. The external opening of the tube should be covered by a piece of protective, so as to prevent the entrance of air. A clean, punctured wound should be closed immediately, without drainage—careful watch being kept for sepsis ; if the wound becomes septic, suppurative pericarditis will occur, and the wound must then be opened up and the pericardium drained. Occasionally, a wound of the pericardium may be accompanied by severe haemorrhage into the pericardial sac without the heart being wounded, and under these circumstances the case may prove fatal from the pressure of the effused blood upon the heart. If there is any evidence of this, it is well to insert a drainage tube through which the blood may escape and so relieve the pressure upon the heart. Should the pressure continue in spite of this treatment, it will be necessary to open up the wound freely and attempt to secure the bleeding point. Injury to the great vessels requires no description, as it is necessarily immediately fatal. INJURIES TO THE HEART. These may take the form of rupture of the organ, severe compression, punctures caused by stabs or bullet wounds, or injuries from fractured ribs. Rupture of the heart generally occurs from severe run-over injuries, and is usually immediately fatal either from shock or haemorrhage; if death is not immediate, it soon follows from haemorrhage into the pericardium. Wounds of the heart are usually penetrating wounds ; nearly 90 per cent, of the cases belong to this class. The prognosis is extremely bad— particularly when the auricle is wounded ; the least fatal cases are those in which the apex of the organ is involved. It is said that about 10 per cent, of all cases of wounds of the heart have recovered from the immediate effects of the injury, but death may occur subsequently from yielding of the scar and the formation of an aneurysm, or from endocarditis, myocarditis, or pericarditis. Secondary rupture of the heart is also known as a result of giving way of the scar. TREATMENT.—In some cases in which the surgeon has been called to a patient suffering from a wound of the heart, in whom the haemorrhage has not been very great, the wound has been opened up and the incision in the heart has been sutured. The organ is best reached by an incision