AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS 3o8 it emerges from the ring, and the inter-columnar fascia and the aponeurosis of the external oblique are slit up as far as the internal ring. The cord is now followed up to the latter situation, and, if the vas is normal, an aneurysm-needle threaded with catgut is made to transfix the cord, which is tied in two halves, one end of the ligature being finally passed around the whole to prevent any chance of it slipping. The ligature should be tied as tightly as possible, so as to strangulate the nerves completely and avoid pain afterwards, and before dividing the cord it is well to clamp the lower end with a pair of forceps so as to prevent the escape of anything from the divided vas. Should the operation be done for tuberculous disease and the vas be found thickened at the proposed point of division, this structure should be separated from the other constituents of the cord and traced back as far into the abdomen as possible, the peritoneum being pushed aside in doing so, until an apparently healthy spot is reached, when it should be ligatured and divided. In this way the vas may be traced down a considerable way towards the bladder. The divided cord is now pulled well down out of the inguinal canal and, the latter is sutured closely throughout its whole length; in cases of tumour, however, in which it may be advisable to attempt removal of the lumbar glands, the wound may be covered up until the testicle has been removed. Within the last few years an attempt has been made to bring the operation for malignant disease of the testis into line with those performed for malignant disease elsewhere, and the so-called ' radical operation ' has been introduced. This consists in the removal of the organ, together with the glands and fascia of the posterior abdominal wall up to the level of the renal vein.^ In order to remove the glands, the inguinal incision is carried out- wards to a point about half an inch above the anterior superior iliac spine, whence it curves upwards to the costal margin, which it reaches at the tip of the tenth rib. This is done after the cord has been isolated, as mentioned above, and then the incision is deepened, dividing the muscles of the anterior abdominal wall and transversalis fascia, until the peritoneum is reached. The peritoneum is now turned aside until the large vessels are exposed and then the vas is traced down well into the pelvis and divided. Next, the fascia and glands surrounding the spermatic vessels are dissected out, special care being taken on the inner side of the wound where the aorta and vena cava are exposed. This dissection is carried on until the renal vessels are reached, when the tissues which have been lifted up are cut across. The cord, the tumour, the testis, and an elliptical portion of the scrotum are now removed together. Removal of the skin is imperative if the tumour is adherent to it, but in any case it is well to take away enough to prevent any cavity being left. Two semi-elliptical incisions should be carried from the lower end of the incision in the groin to the bottom of the scrotum and made to enclose a sufficient amount of skin. In cases of