TRACHEOTOMY 135 notch, and the notch of the sternum have been brought into the same straight Hne, a vertical incision about two inches long is commenced in the middle line over the cricoid cartilage and carried down well below the level of the thyroid isthmus. It is carried through skin and fascia until the interval between the muscles running from the larynx to the sternum is exposed. The handle of the knife, aided by a few touches of its point, will suffice to separate these muscles, which are then retracted to an equal extent on the two sides. In separating the muscles, care should be taken to avoid puncturing the anterior jugular veins in the upper part of the incision. These are often much dilated if there is much dyspnoea, and the transverse jugular branch joining them must generally be divided ; the best plan is to seize it in two pairs of forceps before it is divided and to tie it as soon as possible. When the muscles have been well retracted, the isthmus of the thyroid and the trachea, covered by the deep layer of cervical fascia, come into view. A transverse incision should now be made through the fascia along the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, curving somewhat downwards at each extremity, and the fascia running from that structure to the isthmus of the thyroid is detached, and the latter is then pushed well out of the way by stripping down the fascia with the handle of the knife. This is a better plan than that of making a median incision through the fascia, and should always be done when time allows, as it saves oozing of blood, which may be very troublesome. A double-hook retractor is now used to pull the isthmus of the thyroid firmly downwards and to steady the trachea, whilst a sharp hook is introduced through the trachea on each side of the middle line, its point passing through the membrane below one of the rings and emerging above the same ring ; these hooks are given to an assistant to hold and the trachea is thereby steadied. Another Fig. 31.—Parker's Tracheotomy Tube and Introducer.