293 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS and may possibly be due to gout. The affection seldom goes on to suppuration when it is gonococcal in origin, but suppuration is not uncommon when it is due to other causes. Tenderness and thickening generally occur along the vas deferens before the epididymis shows signs of inflammation, because the infective organisms pass along the vas or in the lymphatics in its wall, on their way to the epididymis. This is soon followed by swelhng of the epididymis, which surrounds the body of the testis like a horseshoe and is hard and extremely tender ; the body of the testis itself is unaffected. There is often an acute hydrocele, and the scrotum may be red and oedematous. The pain is very acute when the patient is standing with the testis unsupported, but is considerably less when he lies on his back with the scrotum elevated. The pain extends up into the groin along the course of the cord, and all the symptoms of acute inflammation are present. The ordinary gonococcal fc^rm of epididymitis generally reaches its height in four or live days and then subsides, and the patient is free from pain in two or three weeks, according to the severity of the attack. The inflammatory thickening of the epididymis passes off more slowly and a hard nodule may remain there for an indefinite period ; this induration is important, as the vas usually becomes occluded by it, and the patient may become sterile should both testes be affected. The testis, however does not undergo atrophy, nor do any of the general symptoms associated with castration (see p. 302) appear. After coitus, the epididymis may swell up from the accumulation of seminal fluid, and may cause pain, but otherwise no ill effects seem to follow. TREATMENT.—The objects of the treatment are to subdue the inflammation as quickly as possible and to get rid of the inflammatory exudation. The patient should be kept on his back with the scrotum raised and supported. One of the best methods of doing this is to take a piece of guttapercha, poroplastic material, or thick millboard, about eighteen by twelve inches, and to cut a semicircle on one side, large enough to embrace the root of the scrotum (see Fig. 71). Holes are bored at each end of the side from which the semicircle is cut, and through these tapes are threaded by which the apparatus can be fastened to a band round the waist, and so adjusted that the semicircle embraces the root of the scrotum, and the testicles rest upon its upper surface with a piece of lint or wool interposed between them and the splint. The knees are tied together, and the under-surface of the apparatus rests upon the thighs, which are slightly raised ; the shoulders should be kept low. In this way the testicles are elevated and immobilised, and the pain soon diminishes. The best local application in the first instance is cold, either by an ice-bag or by Leiter's tubes (see Vol. I.). Little pressure can be borne, and therefore the ice-bag should be suspended from a cradle, and a double