501 CYSTOSCOPY the outgoing stream, otherwise the bladder will ?jecome distended with fluid although apparently being emptied. When bleeding is going on in the bladder, great care should be taken not to over-distend the bladder, as the haemorrhage may be increased by this means. The most difficult type of hajmorrhage to control, for the purpose of cystoscopy, is a slight constant oozing from a tuberculous ulcer or a malignant growth. A very weak solution of silver nitrate (i in 8,000) is sometimes effective in stopping the bleeding, or half a dram of adrenalin (i in 1,000) may be run in through the catheter, retained in the bladder for two minutes, and then allowed to run out. In subsequently distending the bladder, great care must be taken to avoid over-distending it and thus restarting the bleeding. Having obtained a clear returning fluid, the bladder is carefully filled with 8 or 10 ounces of warm boric lotion, the hollow plug removed, and the telescope inserted. The electrical contact is then fixed into the cystoscope, the current switched on, and the cystoscop}^ commenced. OYSTOSOOPIO APPEARANCES OF THE NORMAL BLADDER.—The interior of the bladder should be systematically examined. The window is first turned directly downwards, and the direction will be seen by observing the position of the small knob on the rim of the ocular end of the telescope. The trigone comes into view. The mucous membrane of this part is darker in colour and coarser in texture than the rest of the bladder, and the blood-vessels, which are larger and more numerous than else- where, spread out from the urethra fanwise. The inter-ureteric ridge or bar of Mercier will be seen as a transverse ridge, but it may only be marked by the dilterence in colour between the darker trigone and the lighter surrounding mucous membrane. Following this ridge outwards, first on one side and then on the other, it will be found to rise and become more prominent, and is then lost in the bladder wall. On the prominent part of the ridge is a small red slit, the ureteric orifice, and this will come into view when the window is turned one-eighth of a circle to one or other side. From the ureteric orifice, or from its immediate neighbourhood, a comparatively large blood-vessel passes out and splits into two branches, or there are two vessels issuing from the ureter, which pass outwards and backwards. These vessels may serve as a guide to the orifice when it is difficult to find. A method of finding the ureteric orifice, which may be useful to the beginner, is chromo-cystoscopy. This is very rarely required by an experienced cystoscopist, and only when advanced disease of the bladder has caused distortion of the bladder base and obliterated the natural features of the trigone. Thirty minims of a solution (4 per cent.) of indigo-carmine are injected into the muscles of the thigh, and in about twenty minutes the urine issuing from the ureteric orifice is deeply coloured with the blue dye and has the appearance of puffs of dark smoke.