41 GALL-STONES Palliative.—Palliative measures may be employed ;— 1. When there are slight attacks of jaundice occurring at intervals and accompanied by the passage of small gall-stones, provided that the patient's health returns to the normal between the attacks and remains good until the next attack occurs. 2. Cases of impaction of a stone in the common or cystic duct seen immediately after its occurrence. In these cases it is well to ahow time to elapse in order to see whether the stone will pass into the duodenum or not. If the stone remains impacted in the duct after trial of medical measures for a fortnight or so, the case becomes one of chronic impaction and demands operation. Should, however, fever or local pain and tenderness occur in the course of an attack of this kind, operation should be undertaken without delay. 3. Very old and debihtated subjects with non-impacted gall-stones will probably live longer if treated by palhative measures, as operation may prove fatal. 4. When there is a doubt as to whether a case of profound and persistent jaundice is due to blockage of the common duct by a stone or to its occlusion by malignant disease, palhative measures should be tried for a few weeks in order to allow sufficient time to elapse for the diagnosis to be made certain. Should the case be one of gall-stones, there will be comparatively little change in the patient's condition in that time ; should the mischief be due to malignant disease, the patient will go rapidly downhill, a tumour will probably become evident, and possibly secondary deposits will be found elsewhere. On the other hand, if an attempt is made to clear up the diagnosis immediately by an exploratory laparotomy, the patient may no doubt be cured if there is a stone impacted in the common duct; but should the case turn out to be maUgnant disease, the patient's life will probably be materially shortened. When an intensely jaundiced patient has also subcutaneous hfemorrhages resembling purpura hasmorrhagica, it will be better not to operate, as fatal bleeding is almost certain to result. It is difficult to ascertain beforehand the danger of this complication, as tests of the coagulating power of the blood are unreliable. Palliative treatment mainly resolves itself into the treatment of an attack of biliary cohc, which is best met by giving a full dose of opium and applying hot fomentations or placing the patient in a hot bath if that is possible. After immersion in the bath for ten minutes or so the patient should be put to bed and hot fomentations applied all over the abdomen, especially to the hepatic region ; leeches to the right hypochondrium are said to give rehef when there is tenderness on pressure over that area. As a rule this treatment will suffice for the rehef of symptoms of moderate severity, but, when the attack is very acute, repeated full doses of morphine are called for, and the best plan is to administer it subcu- taneously, as the patient is often sick and cannot retain the drug by the