AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 392 give way subsequently and a urinary fistula will follow ; on the other hand, the abscess may burst into the urethra quite early. Any brawny tender swelling in the perineum in connection with a stricture should therefore be incised at once, and a drainage tube inserted ; nothing further need be done immediately, provided that the patient can pass water fairly freely. After a few days, however, a Syme's external urethrotomy (see p. 384) should be performed. If on the other hand the stricture is very narrow, it may be better to perform external urethrotomy when the abscess in the perineum is opened. (f) Of strictures complicated by perineal fistulse.—The mode of origin of perineal fistulas in connection with peri-urethral abscess has just been described. Urinary fistulae may also follow extra- vasation of urine (see p. 394) and are then much more serious, as they are associated with fairly extensive loss of tissue, so that, instead of a small fistulous orifice into the urethra, as is usually the case when a fistula follows a peri-urethral abscess, there may be a large defect in the urethral wall. Other causes of perineal urinary fistulae are external urethrotomy and injuries of various kinds. Tuberculous prostatic abscess occasionally gives rise to fistulse, and fistulfe may also occur in connection with carcinoma. These fistulae are generally situated in the perineum and may be divided into those in which the communication is between the urethra and the skin, and those in which there is a communication between the urethra and the rectum, with or without a perineal opening. The latter condition either follows an operation, such as lithotomy accom- panied by wound of the rectum, or may occur in connection with a prostatic abscess which has burst into the rectum. In penile fistulee, which are fortunately rare, there is often great difficulty in obtaining closure of the opening, as the mischief is generally accompanied by sloughing of the urethra. When the fistula is primarily due to stricture of the urethra, the stricture should be dilated first and then the fistula may close rapidly ; in many cases, however, it will not do so, as epithelium has spread from the urethra to the skin. It will then be necessary to pare and bring together the edges of the fistula and also to raise a flap to cover the opening, especially when the fistula has followed extensive extravasation of urine and when there is con- sequently considerable loss of the urethral wall. The operations for this purpose are mostly modelled upon the operations for hypospadias (see Chap. XXXII.). When the loss of tissue is not great, a flap may be turned in with its raw surface forming the new floor of the urethra, a catheter being tied in. In other cases two superimposed flaps may be necessary, the cutaneous surface of the deeper one forming the floor of the urethra. No particular rules can be laid down ; the surgeon will have to devise the operation for himself in most cases. If union fails at any point, a smaller fistula will be left and this may sometimes be made to unite by