6 AFFECTIONS OF THE PANCREAS CALCULI. These are usually composed of phosphate and carbonate of lime ; they lie in the duct of Wirsung, and cause marked alteration in the pancreatic tissues, which sometimes takes the form of fatty degeneration, at others of chronic pancreatitis. The duct may be dilated behind the calculus and a cystic swelling is thus formed. These concretions are probably due to some alteration in the consis- tency of the secretion or some interference with its escape. The diagnosis is almost impossible without exposure of the pancreas, although the calculi are opaque to the X-rays. The chief symptom is pain, which is either continuous or colicky, and is most frequently referred to other organs, such as the liver. There may be pyrexia, and glycosuria is not uncommon; the presence of colicky pains in the neighbourhood of the pancreas, together with the presence of sugar in the urine, may lead to the diagnosis. When the obstruction is complete, fatty stools occur, and sometimes jaundice is present when the calculus presses upon the common bile-duct. As a rule, however, it is only after laparotomy that the stone is diagnosed, and even then, it may lie in the head of the pancreas in the midst of a mass of cicatricial tissue, and a diagnosis of malignant disease may be made. TREATMENT.—Should the presence of a stone be recognised, an attempt should be made to remove it by making an incision directly over the stone, extracting it, and then stitching up the incision in the pancreas, free drainage being provided through the anterior abdominal wall by means of a large-sized drainage tube packed around with gauze. CYSTS. Cysts are met with in the pancreas at all ages, but are most frequent between twenty and forty years of age. The following varieties may be mentioned : retention cysts, proliferation cysts (cystic adenoma or epithelioma), hydatid cysts, congenital cystic disease, and blood-cysts. The pathology of these various kinds of cysts is fairly obvious. The retention cyst is caused by the impaction of a calculus in, or a stricture of or pressure upon, the duct of Wirsung. The proliferation cysts may be either innocent or malignant. Hydatid cysts are very rare, as is also congenital cystic disease. Blood-cysts may follow an injury which is not sufficiently severe to cause death ; after a varying interval, the presence of a cystic tumour in the situation of the pancreas is noticed. Pancreatic cysts containing blood-stained fluid must not, however, be looked upon as having necessarily originated from an injury, for it is common to find blood in cysts of non-traumatic origin. Pseudo-cysis.—Apart from true pancreatic cysts, other collections of fluid are met with in this region which are clinically indistinguishable