INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 5 CHRONIC PANCREATITIS. This affection may occur as a result of extension of inflammation from a gastro-duodenal catarrh or a duodenal ulcer, or it may arise in connection with calculi in the bile and pancreatic ducts, or possibly after an injury. The symptoms are very indefinite. The most marked are flatulent dyspepsia, loss of flesh and strength, pain in the epigastrium, and some- times jaundice when the head of the pancreas is affected and the common bile-duct is pressed upon. The pain is complained of in the mid-line in front and between the scapulie behind. There is often diarrhoea with offensive motions containing undigested food ; albuminuria and glycosuria may be present in advanced cases. The gall-bladder may be distended. The diagnosis of this affection is by no means easy. In the slighter cases chronic pancreatitis is very apt to be confounded with catarrhal jaundice or biliary lithiasis ; in the severe ones, with cancer of the head of the pancreas or the gall-bladder. Even after laparotomy, the diagnosis is by no means easy and it has happened that cholecystenterostomy has been done for the relief of persistent jaundice in cases which were regarded at the time as cancer of the pancreas, and recovery has followed, the probable explanation being that the case was one of chronic pancreatitis. The urinary tests seem to be most unsatisfactory. TREATMENT.—When this condition is suspected, the abdomen should be opened by a free vertical incision through the upper part of the right rectus and a full examination made. Care must be taken to make sure that there are no gall-stones in the common duct, as this is the commonest cause of this condition, and the surgeon should only assume the presence of a primary chronic pancreatitis when he is certain that no calculus is present. The induration of the pancreas, especially of its head, can be easily ascertained with the fingers. When it is quite certain that no calculus exists, the best plan is to drain the gall-bladder for some weeks until the obstruction to the flow of the bile into the intestine-—as shown by the nature of the stools—has quite subsided. For this purpose a cholecystostomy (see p. 47) is performed, and drainage of the gall-bladder kept up for at least three or four weeks ; if there is no jaundice at the end of that time, and the bile is normal and passes freely into the intestine, the tube is withdrawn and the opening allowed to close. An operation sometimes performed for this condition is cholecysten- terostomy (see p. 57). Apart from the risk of septic infection spreading from the bowel to the bile passages, it has been found that the operation has been more than once followed by recurrence of symptoms.