AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK ii8 that the trouble is discovered. This rapidity is partly due to the pressure on the trachea producing gradually increasing dyspnoea ; partly also to the great general weakness which follows the destruction of the gland and which is doubtless, to some extent, due to the loss of thyroid secretion. The symptoms of malignant goitre are pains of a lancinating character, accompanied by difficulty in swallowing and severe dyspnoea. The tumour is a densely hard, irregular growth which compresses the trachea and the oesophagus, and infiltrates the tissues around. The points serving to distinguish these tumours from simple enlargements are that, in the latter, the vessels are pushed outwards and may be found even as far out as the posterior triangle, while malignant tumours surround these structures and do not material!}' displace them, and that one or both vocal cords may be paralysed from cancerous infiltration of the recurrent laryngeal nerves. Sarcoma of the thyroid may also occur and is usually of the spindle- pr round-celled variety. There is not the same infiltration of the whole gland as in carcinoma, but a very rapidly growing tumour generally forms in one lobe. The diagnosis will probably not be made until after removal. The extreme rapidity of the growth will however arouse suspicion as to its true nature. TREATMENT.—Attempts have been made to remove carcinoma of the thyroid by operation, but these practically always end in failure. The gland soon becomes widely infiltrated with the disease, and the whole mass is firmly adherent to the surrounding structures, particu- larly the trachea and the oesophagus, and, in attempting to detach it either of these structures may be opened, or portions of the disease may be left behind and the trouble is rapidly reproduced. Hence no attempt at operative interference should be made unless the patient is seen at a very early stage, and the growth is limited to one lobe of the gland, and has not penetrated through the capsule. Palliative treatment will, however, be called for, as the difficulty in breathing must be relieved ; and tracheotomy should therefore be done and a long flexible tracheotomy tube (see Fig. 28) introduced before the operation becomes too difficult. Especial care should be taken to deter- mine the position of the trachea before making the skin incision, as this should lie over the trachea, which may be considerably displaced. PRIMARY CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE THYROID. This is a rare affection and is mentioned here because it closely simulates malignant disease. Its cause is unknown. Microscopical^, the appearances are those of chronic inflammation, and the structure shows dense fibrous tissue with spindle-cells and remains of the gland substance. It affects patients of middle age, and, beginning in one or both lobes.