AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 324 is constantly wetted ; in children this often gives rise to troublesome eczema, and in addition there is generally some dribbling into the clothes and consequent offensive ammoniacal decomposition. When the incurvation of the organ is not extreme, this trouble may be avoided by lifting up the glans when passing water, and holding it out of the way of the urinary stream, but in extreme cases this is not possible. When the urethral orifice is situated farther back than the glans, coitus is practically impossible, as proper erection is prevented by the incurvation. When the cleft extends still farther back and is associated with a cleft scrotum, the condition closely resembles hermaphrodism and the rudimentary organ is useless. From the point of view of treatment the cases may be divided into three groups: those in which the fissure is limited to the glans; those in which the cleft is in the penile portion, and the orifice of the urethra opens anteriorly to the scrotum ; and those in which the scrotum is cleft and the urine issues from an opening in the perineum. TREATMENT.—Treatment is only of avail when the urethral orifice is in front of the scrotum. When the latter is cleft and the urine passes through a perineal opening the chances of repairing the urethra are very slight, and, moreover, operative interference is not called for so urgently because the trouble in micturition is not marked. Therefore it would seem advisable not to interfere in cases of complete hypospadias. The sex of these cases is, however, sometimes a matter of doubt, and many cases of so-called hermaphrodism are really cases of cleft scrotum with a rudimentary penis. Careful examination will almost always reveal the true nature of the condition, but when any doubt exists, the child should be brought up as a male. When the hypospadias simply consists of an unduly large meatus it is often unnecessary to interfere at all. The main point of importance is to make sure that there is no constriction at the orifice of the urethra ; should constriction be present, the orifice must be slit up in the manner described on p. 322. When the condition is one either of complete hypospadias glandis or of that combined imih a cleft of the urethra in front of the scrotum, it is advisable to make an attempt to repair the urethral canal, and the first question is as to the age at which this should be done. The best age would seem to be from six to twelve years of age, but it can be performed as early as three; by that time the patient is amenable to discipline, there is plenty of time for the genital organs to develop after the operation, and, moreover, there is not so much likeHhood of trouble occurring from erection of the organ as there is when adult life has been reached. Erections are apt to be fatal to the success of any operation. Three points have to be attended to in treating a case of hypospadias. In the first place the curvature of the penis must be remedied ; in the ■second, the natural orifice of the urethra must be made of normal size ;