AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER 58 length. It is well not to insert an inner layer of stitches uniting the mucous membrane of the gall-bladder to that of the intestine, as in gastro-jejunostomy, as these stitches may become the nuclei of stones. A single continuous Lembert suture of ordinary absorbable catgut, reinforced by a few interrupted stitches outside, will suffice. In putting in the stitches care must be taken that they do not penetrate the wall of the gall-bladder. When the gall-bladder is extremely small and the common duct is widely dilated the common bile-duct has been united to the duodenum— choledocho-duodenostomy—but this is rarely feasible. It is done in a similar manner to the above, but it is much more difficult. BILIARY FISTULA. It not infrequently happens that a patient, either as a result of some operative interference or of a suppurating gall-bladder, suffers from a biliary fistula, which will be permanent unless surgical measures be undertaken for its cure. Biliary fistula may be due to one of the following causes:— 1. Gall-stones impacted in the cystic duct. 2. Kinking of the cystic duct from adhesions about the neck of the gall-bladder or the cystic duct. 3. Obliteration of the cystic duct by inflammation or new growth. 4. Non-closure of a cholecystostomy wound. 5. Gall-stones impacted in the common duct. 6. Occlusion of the common duct by new growths or cicatrices. A persistent biliary fistula is a most unpleasant condition. When the cause is in the cystic duct, the discharge from the fistula as a rule is a thin, mucoid fluid ; when, however, it is in the common duct, bile pours out of the fistula in large quantities. Although a fistula through which no bile escapes does not cause irritation of the skin, it is inconvenient and requires constant attention, whilst a true biliary fistula may give rise not only to much annoyance from staining of the linen by the bile, but to irritation of the skin around. Therefore surgical intervention will be called for in the majority of cases. TREATMEISTT.—When the fistula is due to a stone impacted in the cystic duct, attempts should first be made to localise the stone by a probe and then to extract it with suitable forceps. Should these fail, the surgeon must open the abdomen and perform cholecystectomy if the condition of affairs permits (see p. 50) ; if not, the stone should be extracted through an incision directly over it, and the entire mucous membrane removed from the gall-bladder and the cystic duct. Finally, drainage is provided until the cavity closes, as it will if the mucous membrane has been completely removed.