AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 132 screen is at hand, there may be no difficulty in extracting it with forceps, after painting the mucous membrane with cocaine. If it cannot be located by these methods, search should be made for it by means of Briining's tube introduced through the tracheotomy opening ; when found, it may be extracted through the tube or removed as the latter is withdrawn. Under no circumstances should the foreign body be allowed to remain in the trachea. (c) Of foreign bodies in the bronchus.—Should the foreign body be in the bronchus, it must be located by means of the bronchoscope or the X-ray screen (if it is opaque to X-rays). The bronchoscope may be introduced either directly through the larynx or through a tracheotomy opening. A careful search must be made both during the introduction of the tube and whilst it is being withdrawn, as the foreign body may be hidden in the folds of the swollen mucous membrane, or by a col- lection of mucus or pus. When it has been located, it is seized with suitable forceps (see Fig. 35) and extracted either through the tube or together with it as the latter is withdrawn. The operation may be very simple or may tax the surgeon's patience to the utmost. When once the body has been seized, great care should be taken not to allow it to slip out of the grasp of the forceps lest it should fall back deeper into the bronchus. If the X-rays are available, and the foreign body is opaque to them, its removal may present no great difficulty. The patient is anaesthetised upon the X-ray table with the tube in position beneath, and a low tracheo- tomy is then done in the usual manner (see p. 140). The edges of the opening in the trachea are held widely apart by an assistant, the X-rays are then turned on, and the fluorescent screen is placed upon the front of the thorax. A pair of long flexible tracheal forceps is now passed through the tracheotomy wound and guided direct to the foreign body ; the blades are opened and the body is seized and withdrawn. When, however, neither of these methods is available the case may prove of the iitmost difficulty. The situation of the body may often be detected by means of a long probe, and the blades of a long, fine pair of forceps may be gently insinuated between it and the wall of the bronchus. Sometimes a wire bent into a hook, or a ring insinuated past it, may succeed in dislodging it, and it may be then expelled through Fig. 30. Golding-Bird's Tracheal Dilator.