328 AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA have healed, it will be found that the penis is perfectly straight and considerably broader, especially in the region of the glans. Third stage.—At least another three months should be allowed to intervene before commencing this stage of the operation, which is carried out almost exactly as in Duplay's operation. A soft rubber catheter (about a No. 6 English) is passed into the urethra and stitched to the middle line of the glans ; this steadies the organ and facilitates the rest of the operation. An incision is made on each side of the urethral channel, extending into the connective tissue, and sufficiently distant from the sides of the catheter to allow the flaps to be brought together over it (generally about J inch), and the flaps so formed are then sutured around the catheter ; the skin on the outer side of these incisions is then pulled inwards until its cut edges meet in the middle line, when they are united over the flaps covering the catheter by another row of stitches (see Fig. 80, B). At the anterior part care should be taken to make the incisions run shghtly outwards, so as to make the floor of the urethra slightly longer than the roof in order to allow for shrinkage. The operation is now finished, and the appearance of the penis is that of an organ which has been circumcised, and has a rather redundant mass of tissue below the frenum (see Fig. 80, C). If everything heals satisfactorily the whole procedure is completed, except that there Fig. 81. — Urethro- plasty FOR Hypospa- dias. Fistula that may result from failure of union. (Edmunds.) Fig. 82—Urethroplasty for Hypospadias. Closing defects after operation. A, shows the flap raised from one side of the opening. B, shows the opening closed by reflecting this flap ; and C, shows the sltin-flap (shown by the dotted line in B) sutured over the raw area. [Edmunds.) will usually be a few rather unsightly tags of skin at the side of the glans, which can be clipped away if desired, but this should never be done until sound union has been obtained, as these tags will prove valuable if it should be found necessary to perform any further plastic operation for closing a fistulous opening. Fistulae not uncommonly occur, either at the junction of the body