507 CYSTOSCOPY In infections of the kidney and pelvis, the ureteric orifice shows evidence of the inflammation. This varies according to the severity and duration of the infection. In slighter cases, there may be only a little thickening and elongation of the lips, or there is a halo of cystitis around the ureteric orifice, and the lips are thickened and puffy in appearance. In severe cases, the area around the ureteric orftce is bright scarlet, and the ureteric ridge is raised, thick, and thrown into innumerable folds and ridges of bright red, somewhat oedematous, mucous membrane, while the orifice is buried among folds. In old-standing inflammation affecting the ureter, the orifice is open, round, and rigid, and contractions are absent or fail to close it completely. In tuberculosis of the kidney, great varieties of appearances may be observed. There may be slight thickening and elongation of the lips, deposit of yellow tubercles on the lips or around the orifice, and ulceration of the lips, later on, spreading round the orifice and concealing it. (Edema around the orifice, forming a mass of vesicles in which the orifice is buried, is sometimes present. In the late stage of chronic tuberculosis of the kidney and ureter, the orifice is displaced outwards and backwards, and appears as a tunnel-like opening, into which the muscular ridge of this branch of the trigone is seen to disappear. The ureter in such cases is thick, hard, and contracted. In stone in the ureter, the appearances may be those of infection, already described. After an attack of renal colic, a splash of ha:morrhage may be observed at the orifice. Large masses of oedematous mucous membrane may surround the orifice in some cases of ureteric calculus. A calculus may project from the orifice as a white or brown mass, or, when the surface is crystalline, it scintillates in the electric light. The urethral orifice is examined by withdrawing the cystoscope, so that the window is partly in the urethra. A red curtain appears to have been drawn partly over the field of vision. The free margin of this is straight or slightly concave, and is semi-translucent. In simple enlargement of the prostate, the prostatic substance is more opaque and projects into the bladder, so that the margin is convex. When a single lobe projects into the bladder, the rounded mass can be seen; when there are two intravesical lobes, the orifice appears to be V-shaped. On the surface of the intravesical portion, small translucent cysts and large tortuous veins are frequently seen. In malignant disease of the prostate, the margin is frequently irregular and the substance densely opaque. CATHETERISATION OF THE URETERS. This method has completely superseded intravesical separation of the urines. A special catheterising cystoscope (see Fig. 135) is required. This is similar to the irrigating cystoscope, with the addition of a tunnel