AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS 300 quiescent either without suppuration or after suppuration has occurred, and after a time the thickening may disappear almost entirely. It is, however, extremely difificult to say in any given case that this is likely to happen. In the acute, rapidly breaking-down forms—especially those affecting also the body of the testis itself—it is fairly certain that the disease will not become quiescent, but in the more chronic cases, in which a firm and painless swelling has been found accidentally in the first instance, one can never be quite certain ; some cases improve steadily under general treatment, whilst others, which at first looked equally promising, break down and suppurate. Non-operative.—If the case is quite chronic when first seen, expectant treatment may be employed, especially when there is tuberculosis else- where in the genito-urinary system and when the local lesion has apparently a tendency to recovery. This consists essentially in placing the patient under the best hygienic conditions, supporting the testis well, and guarding it from injury. The general treatment is that for tuberculosis in general (see Vol. I.). In the local treatment belladonna ointment may be em- ployed if there is much pain, while, if not, the testis should be supported by a suspensory bandage, and may be lightly strapped with simple strapping (see p. 295) or with mercurial ointment; it is, however, doubtful whether the latter exerts any beneficial effect. The injection of iodoform and glycerine or of chloride of zinc into the epididymis, which has been recommended, does not appear to be of any special value. Operative.—Formerly, this usually took the form of castration, but in more recent years less severe operations have been employed with success. This is particularly the case with the operation called epididy- mectomy, which aims at removing the disease by excision of the epididymis and cord, leaving the body of the organ intact. More partial operations than this—such as scraping—are also employed, but they can only be recommended in exceptional circimistances. Epididymectomy.—The operator grasps the testis, turns it inwards so that the epididymis faces him, and makes an incision over it extending from the external abdominal ring—or higher up if the cord is definitely thickened—down to the lower limit of the testis. If an unopened abscess or a sinus is present, the incision must enclose the affected area, so as to remove it with the epididymis. The tissues are divided until the cord, testicle, and epididymis are fully exposed, and the next step is to separate the two latter structures from one another. The separation is commenced at the body and globus minor, which is attached to the testis merely by fibrous tissue. Care must be taken in raising the epididymis to preserve the blood-supply to the testis, and this enters it chiefly on the inner side of the globus major, i.e. on the side away from the operator. The body of the epidid5Tnis is raised until the globus major is reached, and here there is close organic connection between the epididymis and the body of the testis.