AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK Removal of foreign bodies.—Extraction should be undertaken by suitable forceps as soon as possible ; if the foreign body is impacted, attempts should be made to remove it by rotatory movements of the instrument. If it cannot be withdrawn through the tube, it should be brought up as the latter is removed. A careful examination must be made for the foreign body both during the introduction and the with- drawal of the tube, and if not found in one bronchus or its secondary divisions, the other must be carefully investigated. The question of attempting to remove the foreign body by the upper or lower direct method, depends on several factors. If there is dyspnoea, or if the foreign substance is known to be one that can swell when moist, or that is large or has projecting processes such as a tooth-plate, tracheotomy should be done and the low direct method employed. This method should also be used if serious complications are likely to arise during the extraction. Naturally, a good deal depends on the skill of the operator and his ability to carry out the upper direct method. The great advantage of this method is that the patient is generally well in a short time—it may be only a few hours—and that there is no scar on the neck. Any inflammatory con- ditions which have resulted from the presence of a foreign body usually subside rapidly after it has been removed. INTUBATION. By intubation is meant the introduction of a metal tube into the larynx; it is an alternative to tracheotomy in diphtheria and cases in which adhesions are present about the glottis and vocal cords and require stretching. The instruments used are those designed by O'Dwyer (see Fig. 40). The tubes are of different sizes and lengths and are numbered according to the age of the child. Thus No. i is meant for a child under one year, No. 2 for a child from one to two years, No. 3 for a child of two to three years, and so on. Larger sizes are made for adults. An introducer and extractor are also supplied, and a piece of silk is fastened to the upper flange of each tube so as to enable the tube to be readily withdrawn if it becomes displaced. Before introducing the tube, the child is wrapped in a sheet or blanket, so as to fix the arms and legs, and a nurse holds the child upright against her body, while a second assistant is useful to support the head and hold the gag. The tube is sterilised, warmed, and lubricated before use. The surgeon then fits the introducer into the tube. With his left index- finger, the tongue is depressed and the tip of the epiglottis indentified, care being taken not to double it back over the glottis. The tube is now passed horizontally backwards to the larynx and then raised vertically, keeping strictly in the middle line. When the tube is over the opening of the larnyx, it is gently and firmly pushed downwards by the left