597 REMOVAL OF THE OVARY fatal if it is not detected before the abdomen is closed. When firm adhesions have been separated, a careful search should therefore always be made for such injury before closing the wounds, and, if it has occurred, the damage should be repaired in the manner described in Vol. IV. pp. 320 etseq. The rectum is, perhaps, the part most often injured, and also the most difficult to repair ; during the repair, the patient should be placed in the Trendelenburg position. Long-handled needles with different curves are very useful, and a double layer of sutures should be inserted, the outer layer passing through the sero-muscular coats only. If it is impossible to close the rent, the opening should be carefully packed round with gauze, which is brought out of the abdominal wound, and a drainage tube inserted just down to the tear, inside the gauze packing. The gauze may be removed by degrees after the lapse of four or five days, and the tube is gradually shortened. For a time, a faecal fistula will persist, but it generally closes in the course of a few weeks. After an injury to the rectum, it is of course impossible to give enemata or salines per reciuni—at least for a time. Many of these cases of injury to the bowel are due to the fact that the surgeon tries to separate firm and closely attached adhesions, and operates in a hurry. Drainage is required in some cases. When there is persistent oozing, or when pus or turbid serous fluid are present, it is advisable to leave in a tube. In the former case, the tube may be removed at the end of twenty-four to forty-eight hours ; in the latter, the time when the tube should be removed is determined by the amount and character of the discharge. A thick-walled india-rubber tube, half an inch to one inch in diameter, is the best. We are not in favour of using gauze as a drain; but in some cases the tube may be split vertically and a strip of gauze placed inside it, which may be pulled out in a day or two without disturbing the tube. REMOVAL OF THE OVARY. The operation of ovariotomy may be one of the simplest or, when there are numerous adhesions, one of the most difficult in surgery. The cyst is readily recognised by its bluish-white colour ; if it is large, the peritoneum should be cautiously opened at the upper part of the incision, in the first instance, and as soon as the cyst is exposed, the hand should be passed all round it in order to ascertain if any adhesions are present. The cyst may be adherent to the omentum, bowel, appendix, or bladder. These adhesions should not be separated in the dark, but the wound should be fully retracted and the cyst pulled out, so that the surgeon can see what he is doing. In the great majority of cases, the cyst should be removed without evacuating its contents, and this can be done by enlarging the incision as much as may be requisite, and by retracting the edges of the incision over the tumour as it is delivered into the