121 GOlTRE thyroidectomised goats may be tried, but are of doubtful value. The diet should be plain and simple—no restriction need be placed on it, provided the patient can digest it and puts on flesh. X-rays have been employed with occasional good results ; they should only be applied by a skilled operator, and great care must be taken to avoid burning the skin. Repeated applications are necessary and the treatment must extend over a long period. (b) Surgical.—The risks of operation in this disease are much greater than those in ordinary goitre, and therefore operation should only be undertaken by a surgeon who is accustomed to operating on the thyroid gland and has complete confidence in his operative technique. A careful examination of the patient as to the degree of toxjemia and the presence of secondary degenerations should always be undertaken before operation, because if these changes are advanced the risks may be out of proportion to the benefits likely to be obtained. The surgeon may be called in when there are evidences of advanced degenerative changes in the heart and other organs, and under such circumstances no operation should be performed ; he has been called in too late. The most successful cases are the early acute ones before there is any marked evidence of secondary degeneration in other organs, and also those in which the disease is secondary to some other form of goitre. There are periods in the course of the disease when it may be unadvisable to operate and yet, by waiting, a favourable opportunity may arise. Patients in whom the disease is steadily progressing should be operated on before cardiac dilatation occurs. Patients with a constantly irregular pulse and low blood-pressure, per- sistent albuminuria, and a high lymphocytosis are unsuited for operation ; unless and until these conditions disappear, operation is contra-indicated. The operative measures at our disposal are ligature of one or more of the thyroid arteries, and partial thyroidectomy. Division and removal of the cervical sympathetic, which was advocated and practised a few years ago, has now been generally abandoned. Ligature of one or both superior thyroid arteries is a comparatively easy operation and is less severe than partial thyroidectomy. Ligature of the inferior thyroid artery is a difficult operation and is not as a rule necessary ; it may be as difficult as a thyroidectomy itself. The superior thyroid artery should be tied as close as possible to the gland, or the ligature may be placed so as to include the upper pole of the gland ; if possible the vein should not be included in the ligature. In early cases ligature of one or both superior arteries will often bring about a cure. In severe cases it is advisable to tie first one and then the other, an interval of a few weeks being allowed to elapse between the two operations ; partial thyroidectomy may be subsequently performed if necessary. Ligature of the Superior Thyroid Artery.^—A transverse or slightly curved incision with its convexity downwards is made opposite to the