105 goItre The enlarged gland, gives rise to a characteristic swelling in the lower part of the neck which moves with the larynx and trachea on deglutition and takes the outline of the portion of the thyroid gland affected. If the enlargement is considerable and both lobes are affected, they may exert lateral compression upon the trachea, sometimes to such an extent as almost to occlude it. This lateral compression produces what is known as the ' scabbard trachea.' In other cases the enlargement may extend down behind the sternum, and the trachea may be compressed between the gland and the spine. As a result of pressure in either of these ways or both combined, the patient suffers from dyspnoea, which becomes aggravated on the slightest exertion. If one lobe only is affected, respiration may not be interfered with, although the weight of a very large tumour may incommode the patient when he lies on his back. In other cases again the enlargement may chiefly affect the posterior part of the lateral lobe and may extend in between the oesophagus and the trachea, causing much discomfort and dysphagia. In these cases the recurrent laryngeal nerve may be compressed and abductor laryngeal paralysis may occasionally result. Long-continued pressure upon the trachea causes atrophy of the tracheal rings, and this is a most important point to bear in mind during operation, as very slight force would then suffice to. tear the trachea—an accident of extreme gravity, partly be- cause blood may find its way into the air-passages in large quantity and partly because it is then impossible to keep the wound aseptic. The amount and nature of the dyspnoea produced in these cases varies considerably, and careful distinction should always be drawn between the dyspnoea due to pressure upon the recurrent laryngeal nerve— in which case there will be aphonia—and that due to compression of the trachea, when there will be stridor both on inspiration and exprration, but no aphonia. The larynx should always be examined with the laryngoscope before operation is undertaken, to see whether both cords move freely, and also whether there is any displacement inwards of the walls of the trachea obstructing respiration. Parenchymatous goitre is not very uncommon in children ; it often increases rapidly about the age of puberty and may cause severe pressure on the trachea leading to great dyspnoea and even sudden death. Hence a goitre in a child should always be carefully watched and treated b}^ medical measures, in the first instance, and operated on if the size of the tumour does not diminish or if it increases. TREATMENT.—This may be either non-operative or operative, and the choice between the two will depend largely upon the presence or absence of severe pressure symptoms and on the size of the tumour. (a) Medicinal.—The success of non-operative or medical treatment depends on a proper selection of cases. A tough fibrous parenchy- matous goitre of long-standing in an old patient is not likeh' to be cured, but may. to some extent, be improved by medicines. The most suitable