NEPHROPTOSIS OR MOVABLE KIDNEY 519 unfortunately, such cases are comparatively uncommon. When the nephroptosis is part of a general visceroptosis, the operation seldom affords any real relief; indeed the patient is frequently worse after it. When the mobility of the kidney is associated with marked neurasthenia, the operation frequently fails to afford any relief, and fresh symptoms are apt to arise in connection with the operation wound ; if the surgeon is tempted to perform nephropexy in these cases, it should be distinctly understood that it is only a preliminary to a prolonged course of treatment for the neurasthenic condition. It is thus evident that the cases in which nephropexy is performed must be very carefully selected. The recurrence of the symptoms after these operations was at one time attributed to the kidney becoming loose again, and this no doubt frequently happened in the early cases ; but by the more recent methods the kidney can be satisfactorily anchored in the loin. It is, however, difficult to lix the upper part of the kidney in its proper position—at any rate, by the posterior operation—and some of the recurrent symptoms may be due to the liver coming down on its upper end rather than in front of it. Indeed, it will be found in most cases that however skilfully the operation has been done the kidney is fixed at a lower level than normal, and the lower end is frequently palpable below the margin of the ribs and may become pressed on by the corsets and bands which support the clothing. In these respects, operation by the anterior route in the manner described on p. 524, presents a distinct advantage. Another cause of recurrence of the symptoms is that a small hydronephrosis may have been overlooked and not remedied. The most common reason for the recurrence of the symptoms is, however, that they are due to other causes than mere mobility of the kidney—such as enteroptosis —which have not been influenced by the operation. Nephropexy may be performed from the back or from the front. Until quite recently, the posterior operation was the only one employed. The disadvantages of this operation are the difficulty of fixing the kidney high enough and the fact that the condition of the intra-abdominal organs—such as the appendix or gall-bladder—cannot be readily made out and remedied if at fault, without a fresh incision. By the anterior operation performed in the manner described below, these disadvantages are lessened, the position of the kidney can be more accurately regulated, and the condition of the other organs—especially the appendi.x, gall- bladder, stomach, and duodenum—can be ascertained and, if necessary, dealt with. Posterior nephropexy.—The patient is turned over on the sound side, a bolster, an inflatable pillow, or a sand-bag being placed under the loin, so as to open out the interval between the crest of the ilium and the ribs upon the affected side. The kidney is best reached by an almost vertical incision, commencing above over the centre of the twelfth rib and running downwards and slightly forwards to a