498 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER (b) In the knee-chest position, the patient kneels, with the knees shghtly separated, close to the end of the table and allows the back to curve in, with the buttocks well raised. If an anaesthetic is required, the patient may be held by assistants, or a sHnging apparatus maybe used. The speculum is introduced, the obturator withdrawn, and lip;ht projected through it from a forehead mirror. After an examination, the bladder is emptied by introducing a catheter, and gently lowering the patient to the horizontal. Kelly's method is only apphcable to the female, and the position is an exhausting and embarrassing one. Lays has modified this method, and uses it in the male also. His instrument (see Fig. 133) consists in a metal tube of 10 cm. for the female, and 18 cm. for the male, on the floor of which is a fine tunnel leading to a small tube, which a rubber tube attaches to a vacuum bottle ; this prevents the accumulation of urine in the bladder. The plunger that closes the tube during introduction is straight in the instrument for the female, and angled in that for the male. The patient is placed in the Trendelenburg position, under local or general anaesthesia. It is not always possible to obtain complete distension of the bladder, and there may be folds and depressions. An area at the apex and the anterior wall are inaccessible to examination. As a method of examination, direct cystoscopy is inferior to indirect. With the tube, a small area of bladder wall is seen, and the instrument must approach it closely in order to get a good view. With the prismatic cystoscope, on the other hand, an extensive field is displa3/ed, and a broad bird's-eye view can be obtained. The advantage of the direct or open method is the facility it presents for topical applications in cystitis, for operation in small papillomata, and for the removal of foreign bodies from the bladder. INDIRECT CYSTOSCOPY. The indirect method is that most commonly in use, and the most widely applicable. The simplest form of cystoscope consists of a telescope and lighting apparatus combined. Before using this instrument, it is necessary to pass a catheter and distend the bladder with fluid. The cystoscope is then introduced, and, when the inspection is finished, it is removed and the catheter is again passed in order to empty the bladder. To obviate this, the modern irrigation cystoscope is designed. The irrigation cysto- scope consists of an outer tube, which acts as a catheter and carries the lighting apparatus—a small metal filament lamp set at an angle to the shaft of the tube. At the proximal end of the tube is a valve, which prevents the fluid escaping. In the Ringleb pattern of cystoscope, the valve is a trap-door, kept shut by springs in a compartment at the end of