98 AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK of the thyroid cartilage. By means of this incision practically the whole of the anterior triangle can be cleared out and, in addition, the upper part of the posterior triangle is rendered quite accessible. The lower incision runs parallel to the upper, and extends across the lower part of the posterior triangle from the anterior margin of the trapezius to the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid. The most scrupulous disinfection of the region must be carried out, as septic infection would be disastrous. The hair is shaved from the ear back to the occipital protuberance when the glands are enlarged at aU high up, and a sterilised towel is wrapped around the head so as to keep the hair out of the way of the operator. The neck is extended over a sand-bag, and the head turned well over to the opposite side, and the mouth shut off by covering the side of the face on the affected side with a sterilised towel suspended on a suitable screen. x\fter the skin, superficial fascia and platysma have been raised both above and below the incision, they are retracted upwards and downwards, the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle is defined, and the deep fascia is cleared. The next step is to incise the deep fascia at the lower part of the wound quite close to the edge of the sterno-mastoid, and to define the internal jugular vein. This is, in fact, the key to the operation, as the glands always lie close to the vein and are often adherent to its sheath, and if attempts be made to remove them without previously defining the vein, great trouble may be experienced. The vein is therefore first exposed below the area of glandular enlargement and the sheath divided so that a blunt instrument, and subsequently the finger, can be insinuated between the vessel and the mass of glands, which is peeled off it in the upward direction. Should the vein be very adherent—as may be the case when the glands are much matted together and are suppurating—this procedure may be very difficult, and rupture of the tuberculous mass may occur ; under these circumstances it is best to ligature the vein below in two places and di\'ide it between the ligatures. The upper end of the vessel can then be pulled upwards with the enlarged glands and separated easily from the artery and vagus nerve. The loss of the vein apparently makes no difference to the patient, whilst it facilitates the operation and minimises the risk of recurrence. After the tissues have been cleared for some distance, it is well to define the spinal accessory nerve and preserve it from injury. The nerve runs deep to or through the mass of glands, which can always be dissected off it. It should never be excised on the supposition that the disease has infected it. The steps of the operation are practicaUy identical with those described in connection with removal of malignant glands from the same situation (see Vol. IV. p. loi)—namely, exposure of the jugular vein as just described, separation of the tissues in front, ligature of the veins passing back to