ANATOMY OF THE KIDNEY 487 Below, in the angle of the hepatic flexure, is a coil of small intestine. On the left side above, the anterior surface of the kidney is separated from the fundus of the stomach by the splenic artery. It then comes in contact with the pancreas, and along its outer border it is in relation with the commencement of the descending colon, with a coil of small intestine to the inner side. The outer border of the kidney in its upper two- thirds is in contact with the spleen ; in the lower third, with the descend- ing colon. The peritoneum is intact with it at the upper and lower ends and along the upper part of its outer border. Relations of the posterior sur- face of the kidney.—Posteriorly, the upper part of the kidney rests upon the diaphragm, while below, it lies on the internal layer of the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, which sep- arates it from the quadratus lumborum. Internally and in- teriorly, it rests upon the psoas muscle. The upper edge of the kidney corresponds to the space between the eleventh and twelfth ribs, and the lower edge is nearly on a level with the middle of the third lumbar spine. The hga- mentum arcuatum externum is also in relation with the kidney just below the diaphragm, and this ligament may render the removal of the organ difhcult and may require division. A little below the middle of the kidney, the last dorsal nerve runs outwards and downwards, and lower still are the ilio-hypogastric and the ilio-inguinal nerves; the close relation of these nerves to the kidney probably explains some of the referred pains in cases of renal disease. From without inwards, the following structures lie between the kidney and the surface in the lumbar region, looked at from behind : skin, superficial fascia, deep fascia, the aponeurosis and fibres of the latis- simus dorsi, the serratus posticus inferior, the posterior layer of the aponeurosis of the transversahs muscle, and, farther out, the fleshy origins of the external and internal oblique muscles. Behind the kidney at the upper part are the whole of the twelfth rib, except its head, the external intercostal muscle between it and the eleventh rib, and about Fig. 129.- -The Surface-marking of the Kidney ON THE LOIN. (Morfis.)