AFFECTIONS OF THE PENIS 26o in micturition may also be present when the preputial orifice is very narrow or the urethral orifice too small, and this may lead to undue frequency which in bad cases may amount almost to incontinence. There may also be straining on micturition, which predisposes to hernia and may produce prolapse of the rectum. The reflex irritation due to the adhesions may be very marked and is a frequent cause of masturbation as the child gets older, whilst in adult life very serious results may follow the occurrence of venereal disease. When the preputial orifice is very narrow there may be severe backward pressure in the urinary passages from obstraction to micturition. Finally, the constant irritation from the retained secretion may be a predisposing cause of epithelioma. The amount of contraction may diminish in time. Hence, although circumcision is a valuable method of treatment, it is not essential in all cases, and, when the preputial orifice is not so tight as to interfere with micturition, and when there are no other symptoms present and the parents object to circumcision, the condition may be left, in the hope that it may improve as the child grows up. Acquired -phimosis.—^The most common cause of acquired phimosis is inflammation, such as frequently recurring balanitis beneath an unduly long prepuce ; this causes thickening of the prepuce and narrowing of its orifice. A similar condition may follow cicatrisation of multiple soft chancres about the preputial opening. Phimosis may also result from a faulty circumcision in which too small a portion of the prepuce has been taken away and the mucous membrane has not been slit up sufficiently. TREATMENT.—(a) Of congenital phimosis.—When the trouble is due to adhesion of the prepuce to the glans without excessive elongation of the former or narrowing of its orifice, it may suffice to separate the adhesions so as to allow the prepuce to be retracted. The best plan is to insinuate the flattened end of a probe between the prepuce and the glans, pass it as far back as possible, and then sweep it around the glans, so as to commence the separation of the adhesions. The prepuce is then retracted and, as the glans appears, it is steadied with one hand whilst the prepuce is peeled back with the thumb of the other. As the prepuce is fully withdrawn small masses of smegma are exposed, and should be removed. The glans must be completely exposed, and particular care taken to remove all the smegma in the neighbourhood of the frenum. There is no need for an aucesthetic, and there is no bleeding unless the adhesions are firm. The manipulations are a little painful while they last, but the pain ceases immediately the prepuce is drawn forward again. If the retraction of the prepuce has been effected without the occurrence of any bleeding, all that is necessary is to smear the glans over with vaseline and then to draw the prepuce forward. The nurse should be instructed to draw it back every morning and evening when the child is washed, and to see that the glans is kept