42.3 CHAPTER XL. PROSTATORRHCEA : AFFECTIONS OF THE SEMINAL VESICLES. PROSTATORRHCEA. In this condition there is a discliarge of prostatic fluid accompanied by marked neurasthenic symptoms. In addition to the discharge of fluid, there may be other nervous symptoms, such as spasm of the sphincter vesicae, with arrest of the flow of urine and some pain, great hyperaes- thesia of the prostate, and a variety of abnormal sensations. The fluid that escapes from the urethra may be copious, and resembles white of egg, and its presence gives rise to profound mental depression in the case of a neurotic patient. There is generally some increased frequency of micturition and sexual irritability, and there may be a certain amount of chronic inflammation of the prostatic urethra ; a history of antecedent gonorrhoea or masturbation is not uncommon. TREATMENT.—In the early stages, benefit may be obtained by passing the largest-sized bougies possible, which press out the secretion from the follicles, and empty them for the time being ; the same result may be obtained by pressure on the prostate from the rectum—' massage of the prostate.' The urethra should be washed out, and topical applications, such as a strong solution of nitrate of silver, may be made to the mucous membrane through a ui^ethroscopic tube. This subject is dealt with in connection with the treatment of gleet (see p. 359). Tonics should be administered, and the patient's attention diverted as much as possible from his condition, which he should be assured is in no way serious. Due regard must be paid to general hygiene, and the bowels must be regulated ; cold-water douches, shower-baths, and regular exercise are advisable. Sandal-wood oil in ten-minim doses three times a day after meals, belladonna, ergot, or strychnine, are valu- able in different cases. If the patient suffers from nocturnal emissions, 20-30 grains of bromide of potassium administered about three hours before he goes to bed may check them. In bad cases, it is well to insist upon a rest-cure in a nursing home or a hospital, male nurses being in attendance.