AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER 38 are discussed in Chap. IV. Adhesions in the neighbourhood of the gall- bladder do not necessarily give rise to trouble. Their presence, however, may be suspected when there is a history of attacks of biliary cohc, and when there are persistent symptoms—such as pain after food, flatulence, and constipation. It is not always possible to . distinguish between gall-stones and adhesions which compress the bile-duct, and cases are occasionally diagnosed and operated upon as gall-stones in which only adhesions are found. The symptoms of intestinal obstruction from gall-stones are described in Vol. IV. Clinical signs.—Palpation of the gall-bladder affords valuable infor- mation under certain circumstances ; in others, however, it may give no indication whatever. It is carried out as follows. The patient lies upon the back on a couch with the knees flexed and the pelvis and thorax slightly raised so as to relax the abdominal muscles, and the surgeon stands on the right side. The patient breathes regularly and deeply, and the surgeon places the left hand fiat upon the right lumbar region posteriorly, whilst the right hand is placed over the abdominal wall in front, immediately below the ninth and tenth right costal cartilages, and gently and slowly pressed inwards as the patient breathes ; the left hand meanwhile pushes up the liver from behind and makes it promi- nent. In this way the presence of tenderness on pressure may be elicited, the outline of a tumour ascertained, and the amount of its movement on respiration made out. An enlarged gall-bladder forms a somewhat pyriform swelling opposite the ninth costal cartilage just outside the edge of the right rectus, with its long axis directed obliquely downwards and inwards towards the umbilicus. It may be globular or elongated and sausage-shaped, it blends with the liver dullness above, and when there are no adhesions is freely movable from side to side, but always returns to its place, in which respect it differs from a movable right kidney with which it is not infrequently confounded. When the swelling moves downwards on deep inspiration it cannot be fixed in that position between the two hands during expiration as a movable kidney or a tumour of the bowel can ; it invariably slips upwards again. In rare cases gall-stones can be actually felt grating on one another. Physical examination of an enlarged gall-bladder should not go beyond palpation. Puncture should never be resorted to, as the wall of the organ is often extremely thin, and leakage of septic bile or pus from an infected gall-bladder may occur and lead to fatal peritonitis. When no tumour can be felt in the region of the gall-bladder and there is no typical biliary colic, the surgeon must always think of a renal or ahmentary origin for the pain of which the patient complains, and the past history must be carefully inquired into ; a history of past attacks of biliary colic followed by jaundice and the passage of gall-stones may throw valuable light upon the nature of the case.