GALL-STONES 47 the outside in order to see whether any stone has been pushed into the cystic duct; it is well also to try to pass a probe along the cystic duct so as to determine its patency, guiding the instrument by the finger outside. If the duct is found to be patent, the incision in the gall-bladder is closed by a row of Lembert's sutures and the organ dropped back into the abdomen, which is sewn up as after an ordinary laparotomy. In case leakage should occur it is well, however, to introduce a drainage tube through the abdominal wound down to the incision in the gall-bladder so that, should re-accumulation occur and the incision in the gall-bladder Fig. 9.—Mayo's Gall-bladder Tray. The gall-bladder is opened over the spoou-likc end of the instrument, and the bile and gall-stones are received into it. give way, the adhesions will prevent the bile from passing into the abdominal cavity and it will be conducted outwards through the abdominal wound. This drainage tube is dispensed with in about a week's time. This method is only suitable for a few cases, because some inflamma- tory complication which requires drainage, such as cholecystitis, is usually present. Moreover, suture is only possible when the walls of the gall- bladder are fairly thick ; when thin, as they often are, the sutures will penetrate its cavity. Apart from this also it is very difficult to be certain that the bile-passages are clear of stones. The tortuosity of the cystic Fig. 10.—Gall-stone Scoop. The instrument is made of soft metal, and one end is a probe-director. duct renders it easy for a stone to escape detection, especially if there are adhesions in the neighbourhood, and the surgeon may erroneously conclude that he has removed all the stones ; if then he closes the gall-bladder without drainage, fresh accumulation will occur, the stitches may give way, and there will be extravasation of bile into the abdominal cavity, and possibly fatal peritonitis. Cholecystostomy.—When the gall-bladder is not removed, it is well to drain it temporarily, especially when there is an inflammatory condition of the mucous membrane, for the cure of which drainage is necessary. There are several ways of establishing drainage, but perhaps the simplest is—after the stones have been removed—to insert a circular purse-string