l62 AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST the nipple when its edges are sewn together (see Fig. 41). When the nipple lies buried at the bottom of a deep pit, this operation does not usually suffice, and the treatment will depend on the age of the patient and the amount of trouble that the condition is causing. When the patient is in the childbearing period, it will be best to do nothing unless ulceration is present. Under the latter circumstances, and also if ulceration occurs at a later period of life, it may be advisable to excise the nipple and areola or to amputate the breast if there is any suspicion of malignancy. HYPERTROPHY. This condition is not at all uncommon, and one or both breasts may occasionally reach an enormous size ; it is said that sarcoma of the breast not infrequently follows it. Care must be taken not to confound the enlargement of the breast due to chronic mastitis or the presence of a tumour—such as a large fibro-adenoma—with a simple hypertrophy. TREjATMENT—When the breast has reached a size that makes it a source of great inconvenience to the patient, there is nothing for it but to amputate the organ, as no treatment will bring the hypertrophy to a standstill. INJURIES. These require treatment on ordinary principles. Contusions of the breast may set up chronic mastitis, and in some cases the history seems to indicate that malignant disease has followed directly upon injury; a hasmatoma may also suppurate. If the blood does not become absorbed soon, incision and drainage may be necessary. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. Inflammatory affections of the breast may be acute or chronic and may originate in the nipple or in the breast tissue itself. INFLAMMATION OF THE NIPPLE. Cracks and fissures and so-called ' chapped nipples ' are common during lactation, and are often associated with slight malformations of the nipple necessitating increased efforts on the part of the child in sucking. Imperfect attention to the toilet of the nipples after suckling the child is also probably an important cause, as cracked nipples are very liable to infection, especially when the infant suffers from an aphthous mouth or purulent ophthalmia. Various micro-organisms—the most frequent