208 AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX When there is hcBmo-thorax, cold should be applied to the affected side of the chest in order to check the bleeding. Internal styptics, such as calcium lactate (3j, per rectum), ergotinine citrate (gr. yi-g-, hypoder- mically), and gaUic acid (gr. xv), may be tried, and will probably arrest the haemorrhage, unless a large vessel has been wounded. Morphine should be given if there is restlessness. It was formerly an open question whether an attempt should be made to open the thorax and try to secure the bleeding point. Should the haemorrhage come from an intercostal artery or the internal mammary, it will be necessary to do so ; but when it is due, as it commonly is, to tearing of a lung and oozing from its surface, or when the bleeding comes from one of the larger pulmonary vessels, the chances of dealing success- fully with it after opening the thorax are not good. The introduction of differential pressure methods (see p. 232) have, however, made these operations much more feasible, as they prevent the collapse of the lung which otherwise occurs. The situation of the thoracotomy will be determined by the position of the wound if one is present; if there is no wound, the operation should be done from the side. The thorax is opened by removing several ribs or turning aside a large flap containing the ribs and soft parts. The important thing is to have enough room; so that the whole hand may be passed into the pleura and the lung pulled into the wound for examination. All clots are removed and the lung inspected. A small wound in it can be closed with mattress sutures ; if it is irregular and jagged, it may be necessary to resect the piece of the lung before bringing the raw surfaces together. Fine catgut is the best material for the sutures, and these should be passed close to the edges of the rent and not tied too tightly. The edges of the wound in the parietal pleura should be united by separate sutures. When the arrest of the haemorrhage is not satisfactory, the lung may be fixed to the opening in the thorax, and the thoracic wound partly closed, the differential pressure being maintained, until the operation has been completed so as to prevent the entrance of air into the pleural cavity. The surgical treatment of haemo-thorax after active bleeding has ceased will be mainly directed to the relief of pressure. If blood is poured out into the pleural cavity in large quantity, it will exert injurious pressure upon the lung and interfere with breathing to such an extent that some of it must be removed. At the same time, it is well not to be unduly hasty in removing the blood, as its pressure may act beneficially in stopping the haemorrhage; and as soon as the bleeding stops, the fluid is rapidly absorbed from the pleura and the pressure diminishes. If it is necessary to reheve the intra-thoracic pressure, this should be done by puncturing the fifth or sixth intercostal space in the mid- axillary hne with a large hollow needle. The patient should be placed in the recumbent position, a small incision made in the skin, and the