535 INJURIES OF THE KIDNEY escape of urine into the peritoneal cavity after the operation ; in all cases search must be made to see if the bowel has also sustained injury. The operation is terminated by the removal of the blood and urine from the peritoneal cavity—particularly from Douglas's pouch, to which it usually gravitates. If the operation is done early, sepsis may not have occurred, and will be avoided should subsequent escape of urine into the peritoneal cavity be prevented. In long-standing cases.—The surgeon may not operate until some considerable time has elapsed, or he may not see the patient until several days after the injury. In these cases an exploration may be necessary on account of secondary haemorrhage, but it is more probable that it will be called for on account of peri-nephric suppuration or the presence of a large collection of blood and urine, and the treatment will vary accordingly. The treatment of secondary hmnorrhage is difficult, as it is not easy to identify the bleeding point, or to secure it when found. The best plan is to turn out the clots as completely as possible, and then, having found the spot from which the bleeding is coming, to try to clamp the bleeding point, or, failing that, to plug the wound firmly with strips of cyanide gauze. Enough pressure can usually be brought to bear on the bleeding point, as by this time the kidney is firmly fixed by adherent clot. If it is possible to clamp the vessel, the forceps should be left on for forty-eight hours, and no attempt should be made to tie the vessel. When packing is employed; it should be removed as it gets loose, and renewed until all bleeding has stopped, when the incision in the loin may be brought together if there is no suppuration ; a drainage tube should, however, always be inserted. For the treatment of peri-nephric suppuration, see Chapter LIII. When suppuration occurs in the interior of the kidney, nephrotomy and drainage may suffice, unless foci of suppuration are scattered through the substance of the organ, when nephrectomy will give the patient a better chance. When suppurative peritonitis has resulted from a wound of the peritoneum, the treatment must be on the general principles laid down in Vol. IV. INCISED AND PUNCTURED WOUNDS. These are rare in civil practice, and are usually accompanied by injuries of other structures—such as the peritoneum, colon, or spleen ; they may or may not be accompanied by protrusion of the organ. All the conditions that occur after subcutaneous injuries may be met with in these wounds, with the addition that, if the external opening is sufficiently large, blood and urine escape through it. TREATMENT.—When the wound is a mere puncture, limited to the kidney and not accompanied by any serious hfemorrhage or escape of urine, nothing is necessary—in the first instance, at any rate—beyond