AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS 296 disappeared from the epididymis. The patient may then wear a suspen- sory bandage, or, stiU better, a pair of triangular bathing-drawers fitting quite tightly, with a pad of wool to keep the testicles in contact with the abdominal wall, and may be allowed to walk about. When a patient has had one attack of acute epididymitis, he is apt to get another should he again contract gonorrhoea, and special care must be taken under these circumstances to keep the testes supported and free from injury from the commencement of the attack. An important question is the treatment of the exciting cause in gonococcal epididymitis. It is found that the urethritis diminishes and the discharge may disappear during the height of an acute gonococcal epididymitis ; as the inflammation in the testicle subsides, the discharge returns. It is inadvisable to irritate the urethra during the acute stage of epididymitis, but, as soon as the acuter symptoms are subsiding, the gonorrhoea should be treated vigorously on the lines laid down on p. 353. Similarly, when the inflammation occurs in connection with a stricture or an enlarged prostate, steps should be taken to treat the cause as soon as the acute symptoms subside, otherwise recurrence may take place with serious results to the testis. ACUTE ORCHITIS. Inflammation of the body of the testis is less frequent than inflammation of the epididymis. It may foUow an injury when blood becomes effused beneath the tunica albuginea, and it may also occur in connection with gout or rheumatism; it is not infrequently met with during the course of specific fevers—such as mumps, typhoid fever, smallpox, scarlet fever, or influenza. In these circumstances it may be accompanied by suppuration ; this, however, is rare in mumps. The symptoms of acute orchitis are somewhat similar to those of epididymitis, except that on examination the body of the testis is enlarged and tender whilst the epididymis is hardly distinguishable. There is, moreover, not the same tendency to acute hydrocele. The prognosis of acute orchitis is more serious than that of epididy- mitis, as the acute inflammatory affection of the body of the testis is apt to be followed by atrophy of the organ. This is especially common after mumps; both the generative function of the testis and also its other functions may be destroyed, so that if the condition is bi-lateral, psychical symptoms, similar to those following double castration (see p. 302), may arise. TREATMENT.—The treatment of acute orchitis should be on lines similar to those for acute epididymitis, except that the testis need not be strapped. If the pain is severe, great relief can sometimes be afforded by incising the tunica albuginea. This is best done under a general anaesthetic, and nitrous oxide will usually be found sufficient. A tenotomy knife is