394 AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA and, when the orifice of communication is extensive, it may be advisable to carry out supra-pubic drainage for a time. The sphincter ani must be fully dilated so that there shall be no obstacle to the exit of faeces. If a stricture of the urethra exists it must be treated in the ordinary manner. (g) Of strictures complicated by extravasation of urine.— Extravasation of urine following a peri-urethral abscess is described on p. 391. Many cases, however, occur without any previous urinary abscess, the wall of the urethra becoming thinned and giving way either as the result of some local injury, such as a blow, or of excessive straining ; when the patient attempts to pass water, the urine passes into the peri-urethral tissues. In both these cases the opening in the urethra is usually in front of the triangular ligament, but when it is associated with urinary abscess it may be behind that structure. The urine, however, quickly finds its way to the front of the triangular ligament, where it forms a swelling limited by the attachments of the deep layer of the superficial fascia ; this is attached to the lower margin of the triangular ligament behind and to the rami of the pubes on either side, so that the urine does not extend backwards beyond the middle point of the perineum, but forwards into the scrotum, along the penis, and up on to the anterior abdominal wall, being prevented from passing down into the thighs by the attachment of the fascia to Poupart's ligament. Occasionally, extravasation occurring in connection with a urinary abscess deep to the triangular ligament may pass back- wards and form an ischio-rectal abscess. Sometimes it passes up between the bladder and the posterior surface of the symphysis and forms a brawny swelling in the hjrpogastric region. At the moment of extravasation of the urine there is often a feeling of great relief, as the patient gets rid of a certain quantity of urine from the distended bladder, although this passes into the tissues and not through the meatus. This feeling of relief is quickly followed by a burning pain in the perineum, and a swelling about the scrotum and penis is noticed almost immediately if much urine has been extravasated. The extravasated urine, which is generally very septic, sets up symptoms of acute cellulitis within an hour or two, the pain increases, the patient develops a high temperature—probably with rigors—the perineum, scrotum, and penis become much swollen and, unless immediate relief is afforded, sloughing occurs and death may result from septic absorption. Free incision and evacuation of the extravasated urine must be carried out as soon as the diagnosis is made. No palliative treat- ment is possible ; delay can only result in widespread sloughing of the wall of the urethra, the deep tissues and the skin, and usually in the death of the patient. Free incisions must be made into every infiltrated area. Usually a long, free median incision with a lateral incision on each side, extending from the front of the anus right up into the scrotum, is