MALIGNANT DISEASE OF THE CERVICAL GLANDS loi There are no special points about this operation ; the facial artery and vein may be cut, but are easily secured. SYPHILITIC DISEASE. Enlargement of the cervical glands occurs in primary syphilis when the chancre is situated about the mouth or throat, and it is also common in the secondary stage, the glandulae concatenatse being particularly prone to enlargement. Tertiary enlargements of the glands are some- times met with, forming large masses which are very difficult to diagnose. The treatment is that of syphilis in general (see Vol. I. Chap. XL). MALIGNANT DISEASE. This may be eitlier secondary to disease of the mucous membrane or skin, or primary in the glands themselves. Of the primary diseases lymphosarcoma is the common type, and is fully described in Vol. I. p. 264. Lymphadenoma may perhaps also be reckoned in this group, though its pathology is not yet determined. Among the secondary infections of glands may be mentioned those occurring in connection with malignant disease of the skin of the neck, the upper jaw, tlie mouth, the tongue, the pharynx, the larynx, and the oesophagus. TREATMENT.—The treatment of the secondary glandiihir affections of the neck is removal when the extent of the disease permits of it, and this question has been fully dealt with in connection with removal of glands secondary to malignant disease of the tongue (see Vol. IV. p. loi). Lymphosarcoma also can only be dealt with by free excision when this is possible. With regard to lymphadenoma, experience shows that operation is generally futile. Even when the glands affected are few and the removal is apparently complete, it will be found that fresh glands enlarge almost before the wound has healed. On the other hand, some of these cases improve so remarkably during the administration of arsenic that it is better to put the patient upon this drug, commencing with doses f)f I1\iij of Fowler's solution and gradually increasing it to 11\xv-xx, or more, intermitting it occasionally, and alwaj^s interrupting the adminis- tration if any gastric derangement occurs. The subject is fully referred to in Vol. II. p. 50.