AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 338 amount according to the site and extent of the injury ; when this escape of blood occurs independently of micturition it is pathognomonic of a ruptured urethra. When the urethra is torn, the perineal swelling is generally large, and attempts at micturition are accompanied by a sharp cutting pain in the perineum and an increase of the existing swelling owing to extravasation of urine. The act of micturition is always diffi- cult ; when the urethra is completely divided no urine is passed. The after-progress of the case varies with the seat and degree of the injury. When there is merely a contusion of the urethral mucous mem- brane, there is usually little trouble beyond a tendency to retention of urine. When, however, the urethral wall has been torn, there is always the risk of septic complications and when the extent of the laceration is considerable, these complications are practically certain to occur. The blood passing down the urethra furnishes a nidus whence bacteria spread rapidly up to the seat of injury and lead to septic complications. Septic infection may also occur as a result of the introduction of a catheter. When the mucous membrane has been torn, the most serious compU- cation is extravasation of urine. When the patient attempts to mic- turate, urine passes through the gap in the urethral mucous membrane into the tissues around and, as infection quickly occurs, symptoms of acute septic urinary infiltration arise. In other cases the urine may not penetrate into the tissues in the first instance, but when the latter have become softened as a result of the septic process, the urine finds its way into them at a later period. This constitutes the so-called ' late ' extravasation of urine. After recovery, a traumatic stricture is left which is more difficult to treat than the ordinary stricture resulting from disease. TIlBATMBNT.--(a) Of recent cases.—When a patient has rup- tured his urethra, he generally experiences a desire to micturate, and, should the surgeon see a case of pelvic injury immediately after its occur- rence, he should always caution the patient not on any account to attempt to pass water until the condition of the urethra has been ascertained. Frequently, however, the patient has akeady made the attempt, and actual extravasation of urine has occurred before the surgeon sees the patient. The diagnosis of the injury is generally easy, as the blood flowing from the meatus renders it quite evident that not only has the urethral mucous membrane been torn, but also that the submucous and spongy tissues have been damaged. It is important, howeverj to ascertain the precise condition of affairs in the urethra, and this should be done immediately ; even when the case is one of fracture of the pelvis the treatment of the rupture of the urethra must be carried out before that of the fracture of the pelvis. The condition of the urethra is ascertained by passing a sterihsed semi-rigid catheter, with all the precautions as to disinfection mentioned on p. 374. The blood should be squeezed out from the urethra as