RENAL CALCULUS 563 may closely simulate renal calculus, and the kidney has been exposed a number of times for this condition and nothing found. When a patient suffers from gravel—that is to say, the passage of groups of crystals down the ureter—all the symptoms of renal calculus may be met with. Here a course of treatment, with the view of diluting the urine and diminishing the formation of the particular crystals, will clear up the diagnosis, as the condition subsides entirely. At the present time much help may be afforded by the X-rays. Different forms of stone, however, vary in penetrability; for example, a uric acid stone gives a faint shadow, whilst the oxalate stones give a well-marked one. In stout patients the thickness of the tissues may interfere with a satisfactory result, and in any case a skilled radiographer must be consulted. There are many fallacies connected with the use of the X-rays. For instance, definite shadows, closely resembling those of stones, may be given by phosphatic concretions upon an inflamed renal pelvis or in old tuberculous cavities or masses. Calcified glands and inspissated tuberculous pus may also cast shadows that may be mistaken for stones. The bowel must always be emptied completely before the photograph is taken, and it is well to pass an opaque ureteral bougie up to the pelvis of the kidney if there is any doubt as to the significance of a shadow. In doubtful cases, radiograms should be taken on different occasions in order to see whether the result varies, as the shadows cast by the stones are frequently so faint as not to be characteristic, and imperfections in the plate may easily give rise to appearances which may be mistaken for a stone if only one photograph is taken. In all cases in which a stone is small, a radiogram should be taken immediately before the operation, as cases are known in which the stone has passed from the renal pelvis into the ureter or even the bladder in the interval between the examination of the patient and the operation. In cases of renal calculus, as in those of tuberculosis, an important point is the determination of the condition of the opposite kidney, and in renal calculus, moreover, it is obviously very important to know upon which side the stone lies. It is said that occasionally the pain due to a renal calculus is referred to the healthy kidney, and not to the side on which the stone is ; this must, however, be extremely rare, and in practice one is almost safe in deciding that the mischief is situated on the side to which the pain, tenderness, and attacks of renal colic are referred. The condition of the opposite kidney, although of importance, does not however, influence the question of operative interference for the removal of the stone ; indeed, the presence of disease rather adds to the urgency of the operation. The condition of the second kidney is, however, most important if, on performing nephro-lithotomy, the affected kidney is found to be disorganised, and to require removal. This point is discussed in Chap L. 002