AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER 30 through the opening in the diaphragm and attached to the edges of the wound. When an hydatid of the hver has burst into the abdominal cavity, the proper treatment is immediate laparotomy and flushing of the abdominal cavity with salt solution (see Vol. IV. p. 245), followed by removal of the ' endo-cyst' and drainage of the cavity left. TUMOURS. The majority of hepatic tumours are secondary carcinomata and therefore not amenable to surgical treatment. Certain simple tumours of the liver, such as adenomata and angiomata, and also primary malig- nant growths, particularly those of the gall-bladder and its neighbourhood, may however be removed ; Keen (' Annals of Surgery,' 1899, p. 267) has collected seventy-six cases of partial resection of the liver, with a mortality of I4'9 percent. In the majority of cases the diagnosis is made during a laparotomy performed in order to ascertain the nature of a localised enlargement. Should the physical characters point to an isolated solid tumour in the liver, it is advisable to perform an exploratory laparotomy to ascertain the exact condition of affairs and to excise the growth if possible. Operation is contra-indicated if jaundice is present. TREATMENT.—It may be possible to excise small tumours situated for instance on the anterior margin of the liver, and to control the hccmorrhage afterwards by bringing the cut surfaces accurately together by deep sutures, as already described for laceration of the organ (see p. 16). As a rule, however, the anatomical conditions negative this, and more elaborate means must be taken to control the haemorrhage, which is the serious part of the operation. Mayo Robson describes a case in which he brought an isolated growth out of the wound, keeping it in position by sutures and long transfixion-pins and then seared it through with a thermo-cautery after controlling the circulation in it by means of an elastic ligature behind the transfixion-pins. The pins were kept in situ for some days, and healing took place by granulation. This method might be followed in the rare event of a similar case presenting itself. In one case, Keen {loc. cit.) removed a carcinomatous left lobe of the liver with a Paquelin cautery, the only trouble met with being during the division of the large veins. 'He arrested the bleeding temporarily by digital pressure, and finally under-ran the main bleeding points and secured them satisfactorily. The wound was packed with iodoformed gauze, which was removed in the course of two or three days. For cases such as this a more effectual means of removing portions of the liver without risk of bleeding would probably be found in Nagel- schmidt's diathermic apparatus by which the electric discharge is made to penetrate to some distance beyond the cautery-electrode and produces effectual necrosis by actual heat-coagulation.