CHAPTER XIII. CANCER OF THE LARYNX. Epithelioma may commence primarily in the larynx or may spread to it from the surrounding parts, such as the pharynx or the base of the tongue ; when it is primary in the larynx, it usually commences about the base of the epiglottis or in the neighbourhood of the vocal cords. In the latter situation it is generally unilateral at frrst, but it soon spreads to the other side. It infiltrates the submucous tissue, attacks the cartilages, and, if situated near the posterior part, invades the arytenoids and affects the pharynx. When it reaches the pharynx, or penetrates the cartilages, glandular infection soon occurs, but as long as the disease remains limited to the larynx, the glands may be unaffected. Glandular carcinoma may also be met with and sometimes sarcoma ; the latter usually begins in the infra-glottic region. The most valuable classification of cancer of the larynx from the point of view of treatment is into intrinsic and extrinsic growths. Intrinsic growths are those in which the vocal cords and ventricular bands, or the parts beneath them, are involved. In this situation the growth increases slowly and has little tendency to spread beyond the limits of the larynx, while glandular involvement is rare and only occurs late in the disease ; secondary growths are almost unknown. Owing to the situation of the growth, hoarseness develops soon and is followed by dyspnoea, so that attention is drawn to the condition at an early stage and consequently early treatment becomes possible. Extrinsic growths of the larynx are those involving the epiglottis, the arytenoids, or the aryteno-epiglottic folds. They may commence in these parts or may spread from the neighbourhood, especially from the lateral or anterior wall of the pharynx. Glandular enlargement occurs early ; not uncommonly a large hard mass of malignant glands in the neck is the first thing that attracts the patient's attention, and the case often comes under observation too late to admit of radical treatment. The symptoms are often most distressing. There is at first much hoarse- ness and cough, and, later on, when the growth reaches the pharyngeal