AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 356 off either by closing the tap or by compressing the tube between the fingers, and the nozzle is withdrawn sufficiently to allow the urethra to empty itself, the bell-glass serving to catch the fluid and direct it into a suitable receptacle placed between the patient's legs. The manoeuvre is repeated over and over again until the lotion is used up. About a pint of the permanganate solution is employed at the first sitting, and this may be increased after three or four days to two pints. The strength of the solution can be increased up to five or six grains to the pint, but care must be taken not to make the solution so strong as to cause irritation. At first the irrigation should be performed night and morning, but after about a week, by which time the discharge should be appreciably diminished, once a day will suffice. Urethral injections.—It is advisable always to begin with mild solutions in order to see whether they cause irritation. If this occurs, it implies that the treatment has been begun too soon, and the injections must be omitted for a time. In the first instance mild astringents, such as sulpho-carbolate of zinc (gr. i-ij ad sulphate of zinc (gr. i-iij ad §]), chloride of zinc (gr. i-ij ad §j), protargol (o'25 per cent.), nitrate of silver (i in 6000 to i in 3000), or permanganate of potash (i in 4000) are the best. In practising urethral injections it is important to prevent the fluid finding its way into the bladder, and also to insure that it comes into contact with all the folds of the urethral mucous membrane. The most convenient plan of carrying this out, when the discharge is scanty and it is essential to distend the urethra to some extent so as to get the injection fully into contact with all its folds, is to compress the urethra in the perineum close to the bulb, thereby preventing the injection finding its way farther along the urethra than this point. The contents of a glass syringe, holding only about a dram to a dram and a half, and having a bulbous nozzle that will entirely fill the external meatus, are gradually injected down the urethra until the mucous membrane of the latter is put fully upon the stretch. The syringe is now with- drawn, the lips of the meatus are pressed together so as to keep the fluid in the urethra for about two minutes, and then the fluid is allowed to run away ; the process is repeated several times. The patient should always pass urine immediately before the injection is employed in order to wash away as much of the discharge as possible, and to avoid the necessity of having to micturate again for some considerable time ; the effect of the local application is thereby prolonged. The greatest gentleness must always be used in making the injection so as to avoid any injury to the urethral mucous membrane. The syringe should be boiled each time before use, and the fluid should be used at the body temperature. The test as to whether the patient is cured is the absence of urethral discharge and of shreds in the urine. It is not uncommon for patients