AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 376 The patient should be kept in bed for a day or two before the first instrumentation is carried out, if possible. A general anaesthetic is unnecessary, except under special circumstances. Should the urethra be irritable or the patient nervous, local antesthesia (20 drops of a 4 per cent, solution of novocaine injected down the urethra) will help considerably. Should the urethra be congested, the addition of adrenalin chloride (i in 1000) to the above will still further help by diminishing the vascularity of the parts. In the subsequent process of dilating a stricture, the surgeon begins with the largest-sized instrument that previous examination has shown him that the stricture will admit, passing it in the manner described on p. 368. When a metal instrument is' used, the chief error likely to be made in deep-seated strictures is to think that the opening in the triangular ligament has been reached before it really has. The handle of the instru- ment is thus raised prematurely and its point is forced through the roof of ifte canal running thence down alongside the urethra, behind which it passes until it lies between the prostate and the rectum (see Fig. 98). Hence, when the point of the instrument has arrived at the stricture, the greatest gentleness must be employed, and the surgeon should try to find the passage through it by using the instrument as a probe ; the handle should be lightly grasped between the thumb and forefinger, and no pressure should be exerted while the position of the tip of the instrument is altered in the attempt to find the way through the stricture. If this fails, the ' tour de maitre ' (see p. 370) will often succeed if a metal instrument is being used. No attempt should be made to force the instrument onwards until it is definitely engaged in the stricture. The grip of the stricture is quite characteristic, and when felt it is allowable to force the instrument gently onwards ; even here, however, no great amount of force should be used. In difficult cases the left forefinger may be introduced into the rectum and pressure made by it at the junction of the membranous with the prostatic urethra as the handle of the instrument is raised. The finger in the rectum will also help the surgeon to make sure that the instrument has not gone into a false passage. When a false passage has been made, the point of the instrument lies between the prostate and the rectum, and is felt clearly by the finger in the rectum ; if, however, the bougie is lying in the urethra, the substance of the prostate intervenes between the finger and the instrument. When small flexible instruments are employed, the black olivary bougies (see Fig. 104) are generally chosen ; catgut or whalebone instruments may be used for the very tight strictures. Much patience must be exercised, as there is little power of guiding the tip of the instrument. These fine instruments are easily passed down to the stricture ; if the point catches in the mucous membrane, the bougie is withdrawn for a