141 TRACHEOTOMY can be easily stopped by sponge pressure or by clamping bleeding points. Not infrequently the cJiild ceases breathing immediately the trachea is opened. In most cases this is due to the fact that the patient takes an abnormally deep breath and hlls the lungs directly the opening is made, so that there is no immediate need for breathing. If the child is left alone, natural respiration will commence in a few moments, and artificial respiration is hardly ever necessary. A point of great practical importance is that the introduction of a tube may not establish free respiration. This may be either because the tube is not in the trachea or, if it is, because it is blocked by membrane which it has pushed down in front of it. Another possible cause is that the curve of the tube is such that its lower end impinges against the wall of the trachea and is thus occluded. The best means of avoiding blocking of the tube by membrane is to hold the lips of the incision widely open for some little time, either by the sharp hooks mentioned above or by some form of dilator, such as Parker's (see Fig. 31), and to clear the trachea with a feather, which both mechanically removes membrane and pro- motes its expulsion by coughing. The introduction of the tube may sometimes be difficult. This is gener- ally due to the opening in the trachea being too small, or to the neck of the patient being short and fat, so that the trachea is situated very deeply. Clumsy attempts at introducing a tube through an insufficient opening may cause serious damage to the structures of the neck, especially if the tube is forced down in front or to one side of the trachea; this may be followed by most serious septic complications. Before opening the trachea, the surgeon should always bear in mind the size of the tube he is about to employ, and should make the incision free enough to enable it to be introduced without difficulty. The tubes are made in sizes according to different ages. The use of the sharp hooks above recommended (see p. 135) greatly facilitates the insertion of the tube, and with them it is almost impossible to go wrong. Should they not be at hand, the man- oeuvre of depressing one edge of the incision into the trachea with the tube as it is introduced will suffice. In inserting the tube it should first be held with its long axis at right angles to the long axis of the neck until the point is well within the trachea ; it is then rotated through a quarter of a circle until its long axis coincides with the long axis of the body and its introduction completed. Complications.—There are few complications following this opera- tion, most of the difficulties arising during the progress of the operation itself. Hcenwrrliage does not occur as a rule if care has been taken to ligature all bleeding vessels before the patient is put back to bed, but it may sometimes arise in the later stages from ulceration of the trachea due to a badly fitting tube, or from free oozing from the granulations about the