AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA 362 regards drugs and also irrigation of the urethra, if there is much discharge after the apphcation. The effect of the strong solution of nitrate of silver is to set up a fairly acute urethritis, which may even give rise to a blood-stained discharge for twenty-four hours or so ; this, however, only lasts for two to four days. No other complication should occur if the application is carefully made, and the patient should always be told to expect an increase in the amount of discharge. In the treatment of intva-urethral ulcerations, especially in the fossa navicularis, strong solutions of nitrate of silver (3j-iij ad §j of distilled water), or even the solid salt fused upon a probe, or equal parts of carbolic acid and glycerine should be used. Special care must be taken not to allow the application to come in contact with the healthy mucous membrane ; the surface must be dried after the application has been made, and a good plan is to fill up the urethroscope tube with sahne solution so as to dilute and wash away any surplus salt. A little aseptic Fig. 97.—Urethral Knives. These are introduced through the urethroscopic tube; the lower one is for dividing indurations, the upper for slitting up Littre's glands. wool is applied over the meatus, the prepuce is drawn forwards, and the penis is inserted into a gonorrhoea bag. Indurations of the submucous tissue may be treated in one of two ways. The minor varieties can be easily detected by an inflation apparatus —such as is shown in Fig. 96—and are satisfactorily overcome by the passage of full-sized Lister's bougies or an Otis's urethral dilator. The occasional success which followed the old plan of passing bougies as a routine treatment for gleet probably occurred in these particular cases. Marked indurations are best divided by suitable urethral knives (see Fig. 97) introduced through the urethroscopic tube and made to nick the constriction. A few drops of a 4 per cent, solution of novocaine with a little adrenalin chloride are injected down the urethroscope tube, and after five minutes the excess of fluid is mopped up, the knife is introduced down to the constriction, and the latter divided by cutting downwards towards the floor of the urethra. This can be done without pain and in a few seconds, and more than one constriction may be divided if present. Persistent inflammation or supfuration in Littre's glands calls for similar treatment. If any spot fails to heal after the application of a