491 CHAPTER XLIX. METHODS OF EXAMINATION OF THE KIDNEY. Inspection of the region of the kidney shows notliing unless tlie organ is enlarged or there is peri-nephric inflammation. When the patient lies on his back, a much enlarged kidney may give rise to a prominence in front, which becomes more evident during complete expiration, but the organ must be very large before this is noticeable. In peri-nephric inflammation, fixation of the muscles on the affected side during respiration may be evident, and when there is suppuration in this situation, there may be obvious bulging and oedema in the loin. Palpation.—It is diflicult to feel the normal kidney, and at m,ost only the lower end of it comes down between the fingers. When tlie kidney is being palpated, the patient should lie on his back with the legs drawn up and the shoulders sli.ghtly raised, and one hand should be placed beneath the loin just below the last rib, so that the patient rests upon it ; the kidney can be pushed forward by this hand. The other hand is placed Hat over the front of the renal region, and presses hrmly backwards and upwards under the lower ribs. 1 he manipulations must be gentle, and must be practised with the ffat hand, otherwise the muiscles will contract and nothing will be felt. During the examination, the patient should in the hrst instance breathe quietly and, subsequently, as deeply as possible. The kidney descends during inspiration, and if it is pushed forward by the hand behind, while at the same time the hand in front presses backwards, the organ will be felt if it is enlarged, and any abnormality about the lower end may be detected. Further, if the hand in front is pressed well inwards and upwards during deep inspiration, the entire kidney, if movable, may be caught and fixed below the ribs. This may not be possible at the first inspiration, but if the kidney is movable, it will ultimately come down if steady pressure is kept up throughout a series of deep respirations. Additional information may often be obtained by altering the position of the patient. An enlarged mobile kidney may descend and become more noticeable when the patient is in the erect position, and even