222 AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX dividing all the soft structures and periosteum in one cut for a distance of one and a half to two inches. The knife may then be carried along the incision a second time to make sure that the periosteum is completely divided throughout, and then the latter is rapidly peeled off the outer surface of the rib. A curved rugine is then insinuated around its upper border, taking great care not to puncture the pleural cavity. The instru- ment is made to work from the upper border to the lower, and when it emerges around this, it is pushed backwards and forwards along the rib, between the periosteum and the bone, and so bares the inner surface of the whole of the portion of the rib to be removed. The rugine is then pushed to one end of the incision and held in position so as to keep back and protect the pleura, whilst the rib is nipped across from the upper to the lower border with a pair of cutting-pliers. The rugine is then slipped up to the opposite end of the incision and the bone is divided there in a similar manner ; this procedure is facilitated by lifting up the end of the bone first divided and steadying it with a pair of sequestrum forceps. At least an inch and a quarter of bone should be removed. When the resected portion of the rib has been taken away, the periosteum with the parietal pleura covering it is exposed between the divided ends of the rib, and in the centre of this space a pair of sinus forceps is pushed in until the pus is reached. The blades of the forceps are expanded very slightly at first so as to allow the pus to escape quite slowly. It is not advisable to make a free incision at once, otherwise the pus gushes out and there may be syncope from the sudden relief of pressure. After the pressure has been thus gradually relieved, and the pus simply ebbs and flows with respiration, the periosteum and pleura may be clipped away to an extent corresponding to the space between the divided ends of the bones, so as to avoid subsequent bony formation, the intercostal vessels being clamped and tied as they are divided ; this gives an opening large enough for the finger to be introduced into the cavity. It is most important that the condition of the pleural cavity should be investigated with the finger, as it is not uncommon to find large fibrinous masses which plug the opening and prevent the escape of pus, and which therefore must be cleared out before the pus will flow freely ; if left in the thoracic cavity they will no doubt break down and escape in fragments, but they will probably delay the closure of the wound. As a rule, these masses can be brought to the surface with the finger, seized with forceps and pulled out, or they can be hooked out with a small spoon or curved blunt instrument. Some surgeons advocate washing out empyemata, but we do not recommend this. Immediate death has followed this practice, for reasons which are not clear, and we have found that washing out a cavity does not get rid of these masses any better than can be done with the fingers or forceps, aided by the expulsive action of the thorax when the child coughs. If irrigation is