239 DIFFERENTIAL PRESSURE OPERATIONS THE TECHNIQUE OF OPERATIONS UNDER DIFFERENTIAL PRESSURE. Either local or general anaesthesia may be employed during the operation. The latter should be used in exploratory operations, and when the lung has to be extensively handled. Morphine may be given in combination with a general anaesthetic, and is the best way of avoiding the 'pleural reflex,' which results in slowing of the pulse and respiration, and sometimes in sudden death. The temperature of the operating-room must be maintained at 70° to 75° F. In operations for abscesses or gangrene of the lung, the patient should not be turned over on the sound side, even during the adminis- tration of the anaesthetic ; he must be placed with the diseased side lowermost, and in many cases it is advanta- geous during the operation to have the patient lying with the side to be operated on well over the side of the table and to perform the operation from below. Great care must be taken to prevent the introduction of sepsis into the thoracic cavity. Patients who have been otherwise successfully operated on have died from septic infection of the media- stinum, lungs, and pleura. Drainage of the pleura should 63.—de quervain's rib-retractors. Great force , .,1 IT can be exerted by slowly screwing the blades apart. (Garrc be avoided it possible, and 11 and Quincke.) any accumulation occurs or septic infection follows, it may be treated by aspiration or by re-opening the pleural cavity. Drainage is necessary in septic cases or suspected cases of infection. The operation of Thoracotomy.—The site of the operation is determined by the situation of the lesion or affection to be dealt with. A free incision, either straight, curved, or in the form of a flap, should be made in the skin. The apex of the lung may be reached by removal of the second, or second and third, ribs in front. It is unadvisable and generally unnecessary to attempt the removal of the first rib. If it has to be done, the rib should be removed