CALCULUS 467 present for a long time in a bladder that is the seat of advanced cystitis ; here the bladder walls are thickened and the organ will barely hold more than the stone itself and cannot be dilated sufficiently to allow the lithotrite to be properly manipulated. 4. In stone complicating an enlarged prostate a supra-pubic litho- tomy is the more suitable operation as, although the stone may be successfully removed by htholopaxy, the enlarged prostate keeps up a chronic cystitis, and fresh calculi are formed soon after the patient has passed out of the surgeon's hands. By supra-pubic lithotomy, however, not only may the stone be removed but the enlargement of the prostate may also be treated (see Chap. XXXIX.) and the patient cured. Even should prostatectomy not be deemed advisable, the bladder may be satisfactorily drained and the cystitis kept under, and the deposition of fresh stones prevented. The use of a lithotrite in these cases might lead to serious septic troubles. 5. In advanced renal disease, supra-pubic lithotomy is preferable to htholopaxy as the free drainage afforded by the foraier improves the chance of recovery. At the same time, if the stone is small and the operation likely to be a short one, renal disease does not necessarily contra-indicate litholopaxy as long as the urine is not septic. 6. Stricture of the urethra may necessitate lithotomy in preference to litholopaxy under certain circumstances. A slight stricture may be dilated sufficiently to allow of the introduction of a full-sized lithotrite, and therefore need not influence the question. For dense and narrow strictures, however, a perineal lithotomy is probably the best procedure, the simplest plan being to divide the stricture by a Syme's external urethrotomy (see p. 384), and then to prolong the incision up into the bladder as a median lithotomy. The objection to supra-pubic lithotomy in these cases is the difficulty that may arise in the healing of the supra-pubic wound ; if supra-pubic lithotomy is performed, urethrotomy will be necessary in addition in order to remove the ob- struction to the outflow of urine. Therefore, if the stone is small enough for extraction by a median lithotomy there will be no necessity for doing a supra-pubic operation. 7. In stone in the female, the procedure adopted will depend upon the size of the calculus. When this is quite small, the urethra may be dilated and the stone removed through it ; for larger stones, the lithotrite is very suitable, while for very large ones a cutting operation may be demanded, and a supra-pubic lithotomy is better than any form of vesico-vaginal section, which might lead to a fistula subsequently. 8. Litholopaxy is an operation requiring considerable dexterity and constant practice. In districts in which stone is a rare disease and the surgeon is therefore only rarely called upon to treat it he will probably be wiser to perform lithotomy. Litholopaxy.—Before the operation, preliminary treatment is necessary H H 2