399 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS ACUTE PROSTATITIS. This is an infective condition often connected with gonorrhoea and then due to the gonococcus; it may also be due to bacillus coli infection. In other cases, the inflammation may result from injury to the prostatic urethra by dirty instruments or after a surgical operation ; it may follow the use of unduly strong urethral injections, while gout, alcohol, and dietetic excess seem to play some part in its production. The condition may also be set up by the presence of vesical or prostatic calculi, and it may occur in connection with stricture of the urethra ; excessive exercise—such as bicycling and horse-riding—and sexual excess, may also predispose to its occurrence. In the cases which are not due to sepsis, resolution generally occurs when the cause is removed. When of gonorrhceal origin, the acute form may pass on into the chronic, while in septic cases suppuration is common. Suppuration may commence in connection with the foUicles, in which case the abscess usually bursts into the urethra, or in the peri-prostatic tissues, when the pus finds its way into the rectum, the ischio-rectal fossa, or the perineum. In rare cases, a communication may form between the urethra and the rectum or the perineum, and a urinary fistula may result. The earliest symptom is usually a sensation of heat and weight in the rectum, with frequent micturition and painful defsecation. The patient cannot get comfortable in any position, and there may be marked pyrexia. On digital examination per rectiun, the prostate is found enlarged and very tender. When suppuration is occurring, the pyrexia becomes more marked and rigors may occur. Retention of urine is common, and the passage of a catheter causes great pain ; the tenderness of the prostate on rectal examination increases, and a soft spot may be felt when suppuration is established. When prostatitis occurs in patients who are suffering from urethritis, the urethral discharge usually diminishes in amount or ceases altogether. A bacteriological examination of the pus and of the urine should always be made. The condition is easily distinguished from gonorrhceal cystitis, in which there is marked vesical tenesmus, but no enlaigement of the prostate. TREATMENT.—The patient should be confined to bed so as to keep the parts at rest ; on account of the intimate connection of the prostate with the levator ani, any movement will affect the gland. The pelvis or the foot of the bed should be raised, the bowels should be kept freely open, fiist with a dose of calomel (gr. iii-v), and subsequently with sulphate of magnesia administered daily, while suppositories of belladonna and morphine should be introduced into the rectum once or twice daily to relieve pain and diminish the contractions of the levator