64 AFFECTIONS OF THE SPLEEN difficult. There is enlargement of the spleen with pain and tenderness on deep pressure, fever, and the usual symptoms indicating suppuration. TRBATMEINT.-—Theoretically, localised abscesses in the spleen admit of drainage, just as hepatic abscesses do, and this is the proper treatment if the diagnosis can be made. An incision should be made over the most prominent part of the tumour, if possible below the margin of the ribs ; sometimes it may have to be made through an intercostal space. The spleen should then be attached to the abdominal wall and the abscess opened by Hilton's method and efficiently drained. Any unduly free bleeding could be met by plugging. The spleen has been extirpated successfully for this condition, and splenectomy has also been suggested for cases in which there are numerous abscesses scattered through the organ, but these are usually cases of general pyaemia. SYPHILIS AND TUBERCULOSIS. Tuberculosis of the spleen is always a part of tuberculosis elsewhere and does not call for surgical treatment. Syphilis of the spleen is very rare and is more interesting from the point of view of diagnosis than of treatment. The latter is that for tertiary syphilis (see Vol. I. Chap. XL), in which stage the affection of this organ occurs. HYDATIDS. The spleen may be implicated alone, or, more usually, in conjunction with the liver or other organs. The cyst makes its way forward towards the abdominal wall and presents the typical characters (see Chap. III.), or it makes its way upwards and backwards, contracting adhesions to the diaphragm and eventually opening into the pleura or the lung. The diagnosis is made from data similar to those in connection with the liver. TRBATMEHSTT.—This consists in opening the cyst with suitable precautions against infection of the peritoneal cavity, evacuating its contents, and providing drainage (see Hydatid of the Liver). Splenectomy has been suggested, but incision and drainage seem more suitable ; in the case of a large cyst, there may be many adhesions, and an attempt at splenectomy would be accompanied by much shock and bleeding, while drainage is safer, simpler, and gives equally good results. If, however, there are a number of comparatively small cysts, it will be better to remove the spleen. The treatment of a hydatid of the spleen that has opened into the thorax, is identical with that of the similar condition in the liver.