i68 AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST for such disease may be undertaken forthwith. If the mass is not malignant, it will suffice to remove the thickened part of the breast and leave the rest ; the remaining portions of the breast may be brought together by catgut stitches, and in all cases a drainage tube should be inserted for three or four days, otherwise a hematoma is almost certain to form. (b) CHRONIC LOBULAR MASTITIS—This form of the affection may occur at any age and bears no definite relation either to lactation or to injury. It is perhaps more common in multiparEe who are approaching the climacteric period, but it may also occur at puberty, and the nodules always tend to increase in size during menstruation. It is usually bilateral, but is commonly more advanced in one breast than in the other, and as a rule is only noticed by accident. The breast is generally enlarged, and on palpation is found to have lost its soft, elastic character and to be unduly firm. If pressed against the thorax it feels granular, with numerous small nodules scattered throughout its substance ; the axillary glands may be somewhat enlarged though they do not form the hard masses found in carcinoma. Occasion- ally there is considerable pain, giving rise to the condition known as mastodynia, which is probably due to involvement of nerve-endings ; when this occurs, the patient suffers from neuralgic pains beginning in the breast and radiating towards the neck, shoulder, and back, often coming on in severe crises and generally worse before the menstrual period. The condition is usually readily diagnosed, the only difficulty being to distinguish it from multiple cystic disease of the breast, of which it is probably merely the early stage. Treatment. •— There is comparatively little to be done; as a rule, it is sufficient to protect the breast from injury, to support it, and to employ compression by applying strapping and a bandage firmly over a large mass of cotton-wool. For the relief of pain, a belladonna plaster or glycerinum balladonnae may be indicated, and sometimes the application of X-rays or the continuous current is beneficial. Some surgeons look upon this condition—especially when multiple cystic disease has developed—as a sort of epitheliomatous affection, or, at any rate, as a precursor of cancer, and advise total excision of the breast. This view is, however, purely theoretical, and it does not seem justifiable to remove the breast in all these cases. A free excision of the breast may, however, be advisable when severe mastodynia is present and the patient fails to derive benefit from local applications, provided that the condition of the pelvic organs reveals no cause for the pain. Even after removal of one breast, however, the neuralgic pain is apt to persist on that side or to appear in the opposite breast, and therefore a very cautious prognosis must be given. The breast may be removed in these cases subcutaneously by making an incision along the lower and outer border. It is separated from the