44 AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER and abdominal cloths must be counted before and after the operation, and any that have been used for absorbing bile should not be used when the abdominal wall is being i-epaired. Two incisions are employed : the most common being a vertical one passing downwards through the fibres of the right rectus about an inch to the right of the middle line (see Fig. 6). It should commence about the level of the junction of the seventh with the eighth costal cartilage, and its length will vary with the condition of affairs for which the operation is required. When the case is one of calculi in the gall-bladder, it need not be more than three inches long if the patient is not very fat, but if the stones are in the common duct, it will have to extend below the umbilicus and, in addition, the upper end may be prolonged towards the xiphoid cartilage ; in very fat subjects it may be necessary to carry it outwards at its lower end. Another incision which has some advantages, and which is frequently used, is an oblique one parallel to and about an inch below the lower border of the ribs, commencing over the middle of the rectus in front and extending outwards and backwards for four or five inches. The rectus is not divided in the first instance, but that may become necessary in the case of stones impacted in the common duct; in place of this a short vertical incision may be added to the oblique one. When there is jaundice, all bleeding points should be ligatured before the peritoneum is opened. If the gall-bladder is not adherent to the anterior abdominal wall, the free edge of the liver is pulled well upwards under the ribs, and is kept in position by an assistant who grasps it outside an abdominal cloth. The surgeon then examines for adhesions and notes the condition of the gall-bladder. The cystic duct is next examined, both for adhesions and for the presence of a stone. Finally, before deciding on the further steps of the operation, the common bile-duct should be examined, even when there is no jaundice ; the duct is generally easily found as it is only necessary to trace the cystic to its junction with Fig. 6.—Sevan's Incision for exposure of the Common Duct. The thick line is the incision that suffices in spare subjects or for gall-bladder operations. The dotted lines show the durection in which the incision is enlarged in order to expose the common duct. It is not often necessary to make use of the lower dotted incision. (Annals of Surgery.)