ABDOMINAL MYOMECTOMY 603 been arrested, the cut edges of the vagina should be approximated by catgut sutures, and the peritoneum sutured over the divided parts as in sub-total hysterectomy. ABDOMINAL MYOMECTOMY. The operation of myomectomy for fibroids is sometimes to be preferred to hysterectomy. The operation consists in enucleating the tumours in the wall of the uterus or removing pedunculated fibroids. It is indicated when the fibroids are few in number, and in patients in the child-bearing period of life when they are anxious for a child. It is sometimes required in pregnancy, when the tumour appears likely to obstruct labour, and it may be done when the patient is old, and the fibroids are pedunculated and few in number. The chief difficulty in the operation is to control the bleeding, and in some cases it may be impossible to do this without having recourse to hysterectomy ; the patient's consent to hysterectomy should always be obtained before undertaking the operation. The drawback to the operation is that the surgeon can never be certain that all the fibroids have been removed, or even that those removed are the ones which were causing the trouble ; those not removed may go on growing, the symptoms may continue, and a hysterectomy be required later on. Nevertheless, if the patient is young and in the child-bearing period, it is never desirable to deprive her of the chance of being a mother if it can possibly be avoided. Myomectom}' is theoretically the ideal operation, but practically it is not always possible, and it may be a more severe operation than hysterectomy. The patient is placed in the Trendelenburg position, and the intestines packed oft. The uterus is held up in the incision or brought out on to the abdominal wall. An incision is then made through the peritoneum over the fibroid and through its capsule, the latter being caught by two or three pairs of forceps. The fibroid is then enucleated with the finger or a blunt instrument. There may be a good deal of bleeding which is temporarily controlled by packing the cavity with gauze. The larger vessels are underrun with a catgut or silk thread, which is tied around the vessel. The cavity is obliterated by bringing the walls together with mattress-sutures, and the peritoneum is united by stitches passed close to the cut edges. If the fibroid has a narrow thin pedicle, the latter may be transfixed and ligatured before it is divided, and, in order not to leave a raw area, the peritoneum is first incised all round the pedicle and turned back ; this flap is subsequently replaced over the cut surface and sutured. Similarly, when the pedicle is broader and short, the peritoneum shculd be incised all round and reflected before the fibroid is enucleated. In these cases the pedicle should not be transfixed.