420 AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE it is not arrested by irrigation with hot saHne solution, the cavity from which the prostate was removed should be packed with gauze for thirty-six to forty-eight hours, and a large drainage tube re-inserted into the supra-pubic wound. Cyslitis.—The urine may become very foul from septic infection, and cystitis may set in. The bladder must be irrigated with a solution of boric acid or potassium permanganate, three or four times a day, and the usual internal remedies (see p. 446) given. Phosphatic calculi may form in the cavity from which the prostate has been removed ; they must be extracted by forceps through the supra-pubic wound. Epididymitis sometimes occurs. Usually, it undergoes resolution, but it may go on to suppuration, in which case the pus must be evacuated as soon as possible and the abscess cavity drained. Failure of the supra-puhic wound to close.—^This occurs in a certain proportion of cases. In others, there is considerable delay in the closure, or the wound may re-open after apparently healing. In these, a catheter may be passed into the bladder through the urethra and tied in for a few days ; occasionally, it has been necessary to drain the bladder through a perineal incision. One of the causes of this complication is adhesion of the bladder to the back of the symphysis pubis, and in that case the wound should be re-opened, the bladder freed, and the opening in it sewn up with a double row of catgut sutures. A stricture at the entrance of the urethra into the bladder may form and keep open the fistula, or a fold of mucous membrane may block the opening. It is advisable to pass a sound about the end of fourteen days to see that there is no such obstruction, and tie in a catheter through the urethra, if necessary. Bronchitis and hypostatic pneumonia may also occur. Perineal prostatectomy.—The patient is placed in the exaggerated lithotomy position, so that the perineum is directed upwards. A metal staff is inserted into the bladder and given to an assistant to hold, and an inverted V-shaped incision is made in the perineum. The point of the V lies just behind the bulb, whilst its extremities are midway between the anus and the tuber ischii on each side. The skin and sub- cutaneous tissues are divided, and the perineal raphe is exposed in the mid-line. This raphe, which contains some muscular fibres, is then divided transversely with scissors. The space between the rectum and the prostate is now opened up with the fingers, great care being taken not to injure the former, which is drawn backwards by a broad retractor. The smooth posterior surface of the prostate in its capsule is exposed^ and the urethra is opened just behind the bulb. Through this urethral incision. Young's special tractor is introduced into the bladder, the blades widely opened, and traction made, thus bringing the prostate down into the wound. The capsule is cleared of fat, and an incision is made through it on each side of the mid-line, avoiding the large veins.