AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER 28 in the substance of the liver or towards one margin. When it projects from the upper surface, an irregular line of dullness may be obtained on percussion. In other cases a distinct tumour may be felt in the abdomen, and then fluctuation can often be made out. Symptoms of pressure on the viscera may also be met with according to the situation and size of the tumour. Should the cyst burst into the pleural cavity, there is sudden violent pain in the side with great dyspnoea, followed by acute pleurisy, often rapidly fatal. If the cyst is suppurating when it ruptures, there will be an empyema instead of a simple pleurisy. When the cyst bursts into the peritoneum, there is intense and prolonged collapse, and rapid death sometimes follows. If not, violent peritonitis develops, and urticaria may also occur. The fluid from the cyst evidently contains some poisonous material, and not merely the innocuous ingredients that the chemical analysis would seem to imply ; this fact is an important contra-indica- tion to treating a case by simple puncture because, quite apart from the possibility of infection by living parasites or by pus, the constant leakage of hydatid fluid into the abdomen may give rise to serious symptoms. A few words are necessary as to the diagnosis of hydatids of the liver, which is often very difficult—at any rate, in the early stages. A slow growing, irregular enlargement of the liver, which is smooth in outline and fluctuates freely, is practically certain to be of this nature. From hydrops of the gall-bladder it may be distinguished by a recognition of the characters of an enlarged gall-bladder (see p. 38). From pleural effusion it may be distinguished by the length of the history, the insidious onset and the alteration in the level of the dullness during deep inspiration ; in hydatids this descends during inspiration, whilst it remains unchanged in pleural effusion. An X-ray examination would show whether the tumour was above or below the diaphragm. TREATMENT.—The best method of treatment is to lay open the cyst and clear out the ' endo-cyst' and the daughter cysts, either through the abdominal or the thoracic wall. When the operation is done through the abdominal cavity, a free incision is made over the most prominent part of the swelling, the area around the exposed cyst waU is packed with gauze, just as before opening an intra-abdominal abscess, and a large trochar and canula is thrust into the cyst and most of the fluid contents evacuated through it ; should the canula get blocked by the daughter cysts, a small quantity of saline solution syringed in will displace them and allow the fluid to flow again. As the cyst wall becomes flaccid, it can often be drawn well up out of the wound. Fresh packing is now substituted and the wall of the cyst is puUed as far out of the abdomen as possible, the patient if necessary being turned slightly over on one side, and then a free incision is made through the cyst wall and the more solid contents are evacuated, their escape being assisted by irrigation. If possible the true cyst wall—the ' endo-cyst '—should be enucleated from