277 G. THE INDICATIONS FOR AMPUTATION AND EXCISION. The consideration of the indications does not belong strictly speaking to a handbook on surgical appliances and operations. If then I attempt to describe here in brief outlines the indications for the most important operative procedures on the extremities, I yield to the wishes of the judges and to that of my never-to-be-for- gotten father and friend Stromeyer. I cannot however omit to point out the great difficulty, which this task just now presents. The antiseptic treatment of wounds is be- ginning to be the common property of all surgeons, while sufficient experience in its employment during a large war does not as- yet lie before us. There can be no question, that antiseptic surgery must have the greatest influence upon the actions of surgeons in their treatment of wounds in time of war, and that the indications for operative treat- ment are thereby partly restricted, partly extended. But it must never be forgotten, that it has frequently happened in war, that either the antiseptic material is not at hand, or the operating surgeon has not acquired sufficient knowledge or experience in its application. The removal of a limb is as a rule only indicated, when by so doing the prospect of saving the life of the wounded is rendered essen- tially better than by the conservative treatment. When a limb has been torn off by heavy artillery or hopelessly shattered, when a smaller projectile has crushed the bones, and.in addition to that has torn the large vessels and nerve-trunks, when gangrene has already set in, which threatens to spread far from the seat of injury, or when aji acute purulent infiltration of the cellular tissue begins to extend without interruption towards the trunk, then only a speedy removal of the limb above the limit of the dangerous process can save the life of the patient. And if this indication is clear, then the operation should be undertaken 'primarily, i. e., as soon as possible, and,before the onset of inflammatory reaction.