\57 b) Ligature in the wound itself (direct ligature). For this purpose the wound must be sufficiently enlarged under the guidance of the fingers, and the blood clots thoroughly cleared out (the so called diffuse traumatic aneurism) with the hand or a carbolised sponge. And while the soft parts are held asunder with retractors, one must, carefully prepared and guided by a good anatomical knowledge, penetrate to the bottom of the wound, till the injured artery has been found. The artery is then separated from its cellular sheath, carefully ligatured above and below the injured spot with carbolised catgut, and divided between the two ligatures, so that both ends of the divided vessel may be able to retract. If in spite of this double ligature blood still wells up from the bottom, some other vessel must be injured. Not uncommonly it is caused by a branch, wdiich is given off from the posterior wall of the artery at the wounded spot. To recognize this condition of affairs, the injured piece of artery between the two ligatures can be cut out (Rose). But it may be some other branch, which is injured in the further course of the wound. In any case it must be sought for, and an attempt made to close it with a ligature. If besides the artery one of the larger veins are injured, it is recognized by the fact, that in spite of the ligature a large quantity of dark blood flows from the wound, especially if pressure is made above the wound. Such venous haemorrhage can as a rule be arrested by a light compress or the tampon; if not, the injured vein must also be ligatured. These often difficult operations can be essentially made easier by the bloodless method; but to drive out all the blood from the limb is not to be recommended, because one cannot then easily recognize the empty veins, nor avoid injuring them. It is therefore sufficient to apply the elastic bandage above and below the wound (Stromeyer). The circulation is thereby entirely arrested, while the veins remain full and can also be quickly refilled by a momentary removal of the lower bandage, if during the operation the blood should have escaped. Moreover for the performance of this operation, where the life or death of the patient is at stake, no fear need be entertained of converting a small thrust or gunshot wound into a very large and deep wound.