24* for the secretions of the wound by the introduction of a sufficiently stout drainage tube to the bottom of the wound. The rest of the wound can then be closed with sutures. 14. The various dressings and appliances which have been described above (vide the dressing of wounds), are used to immobilise the limb. It is to be observed, that in the rigorous antiseptic treat- ment carried out by Lister the neighbourhood of the wound must be left exposed for the application of the dressing to a greater extent than in the open method of treatment, which of course can gene- rally only take place at the expense of the immobility: but in the antiseptic treatment a little movement of the excised limb at the change of dressing is usually less injurious, than in other methods of dressing. 15. A windowed plaster of Paris splint is especially suitable for the open treatment of wounds, while in the antiseptic treatment a simple splint (e. g. Stromeyer's padded wooden splint, Volkmann's tin splint, P)eely's hempen splint), from which the limb must be raised a1 the change of dressing, can generally be used without disadvantage; for besides the many layers of Lister's stiff gauze, with which the wound is enveloped, the limb is almost sufficiently immobilised. 16. By the time that the excision-wounds have healed, in con- sequence of the prolonged rest all the joints of the limb have usually become stiff, the ligaments and tendons matted together, and the muscles weak and atrophied (Inactivitatsparalyse). To the ignorant the whole limb then appears useless, and remains even later in this unserviceable condition if nothing happens to oppose it. 17. To avoid this result, or to restore the joints to a healthy condition, methodical passive movements should be begun in all the joints of the extremity directly after the cicatrisation of the wound; and at first under chloroform, if there is much pain (Neudorfer>s apolyse). 18. The mobility of the joints of the upper extremity, especially those of the fingers, in which it is desirable to restore their func- tions as soon as possible, can be preserved by careful movements Eamarch, the Surgeon's Handbook. -t/>