and by an early removal of the sutures. One suture too tightly drawn may result in the death of the patient. 5. Any contamination of a wound may call forth in it decomposition and putrefaction, and with them the accidental complications which retard its healing and endanger the life of the patient. Care for the most scrupulous cleanliness (of the fingers, instruments, bandages, linen, water, and air) is therefore the first duty of the surgeon, as well as of the attendants. B. THE COVERING OF WODNDS. For protection against injurious influences from without, for the dressing of wounds, there are used: 1. Compresses — pieces of old soft linen, moistened with some fluid or ointment which prevents the hermetical closing which would arise from their adhering to the wound. It is best for this purpose, to make holes through these compresses with a punch, or to change them into so called "Gitter-charpie" by drawing out the threads. 2. Charpie — plucked from clean old soft linen with clean fingers, and placed beneath the compress, serves to suck up all the secretions of the wound, and certainly answers for this purpose better than all other substitutes. As it is always possible that the charpie contains infectious matter, it should be made harmless before its application, by boiling and soaking in disinfecting agents (such as carbolic acid, salicylic acid etc.). Lately too in its place, many of the following materials have been brought into use. 3. Cotton-Wool — the common wool serves for wrapping up wounded parts; this wool purified and freed from grease by boiling in alkalies (charpie wool, Bruns' wool dressing) serves for soaking up the secre- tions of the wound; it is not intended to be applied directly upon the surface of the wound, because the loose fibres of cotton become matted to the granulations. 4. Lint — a woven felted cotton, when soaked in water or oil is a good dressing. 5. Oakum — plucked from old ships rope thoroughly soaked with tar, acts as a disinfectant and absorptive agent, but is somewhat too hard for irritable wounds. The same may be said of jute (s. p. 15).