Separating the cellular tissue (between two pairs of forceps). Fig. 280. C. To penetrate carefully into the deeper parts, the operator and assistant seize with two good pairs of forceps the uppermost layers of cellular tissue on each side of the incision, and raise it up for a minute, so that the air may force its way into the meshes of the tissue (emphysema). This is then divided by a stroke of the knife (fig. 280). 7). As soon as both forceps become loose, fresh layers of tissue are seized above and below the aperture that has thus been made: these are raised towards the knife and divided: this is continued till the layer of tissue is divided from one angle of the wound to the other. The same proceeding is repeated with the following layers, till the sheath of the artery is reached. Any veins, small arteries, nerves, and muscles, that are met with, are liberated and drawn to one side with retractors. 6. As soon as the sheath of the artery is exposed, the operator seizes with his forceps the cellular sheath, and raises it into a small cone. He lowers the handle of his knife so far sideways and outwards, that the flat surface of the blade is turned towards the artery, 'but the point of the knife remains at right angles with the point of the forceps. The knife then divides the cone just beneath the forceps (fig. 281). A small incision opens the sheath, and whilst the forceps raises the triangular corner, the point of the knife carefully separates the sheath from the wall of the artery. i. For larger arteries the proceeding is continued in this manner. The operator, still retaining with his forceps the corner, introduces with his right hand a second pair of forceps, closed, into the aperture at the base of the corner between the artery and its sheath. He then seizes the inner wall of the sheath and draws its forwards. The artery is thereby rolled gently on its axis, and the cellular tissue, by which the artery is attached to its sheath both laterally and behind, makes