f 15 become discoloured must it be disinfected afresh with the strong car- bolic solution. The drainage-tubes are changed after some time, or replaced by thinner ones, and as soon as possible left out altogether. 10. If it is undesirable or impossible to renew the dressing fre- quently, the double antiseptic dressing is applied, the deeper layer of which consists of the "protective,' and a compress, soaked in a solution of carbolic acid, which is fixed by a gauze-bandage. Over this come tlien the dry layers and the sheet of mackintosh. The deeper layer can remain for weeks, and is only moistened at each dressing with the carbolic solution. 11. In default of Lister's dry antiseptic gauze, Bardeleben's moist carbolic dressing can be used. Over the "protective" are laid many folds of gauze which has first lain for twelve hours in a strong carbolic solution, then been squeezed out and kept in a fresh 1 per cent solution of carbolic acid. As soon as the secretion from the wound penetrates anywhere to the surface, new layers of the moist gauze are put on. 12. Boracic Acid also acts as an antiseptic and can be used for superficial wounds, burns, and granulating surfaces either in the form of a watery solution (1 : 30) in which is dipped the lint or gauze, or as an ointment (1:2 lard) (Chiene). 13. Salicylic Acid, which has been recommended by Thiersch and lately so much employed especially in combination with the car- ' bolic dressing, has a similar effect, although not quite so certain an antiseptic as carbolic acid. It can be employed in a watery solution (1 : 300) both for the spray and for impregnating the dressings, for washing the instruments, hands etc. but it is especially used for im- pregnating the materials for dressing, namely the wool and jute. Jute (prepared Arrakanian hemp) on account of its permeability is especially fitted for antiseptic dressing. For the description of this dressing s. C. Thiersch : Klinische Ergebnisse der Lister'schen Wundbehandlung. Leipzig 1875, p. 720 u. ff.