employed. During lengthy operations and dressings the spray can be momentarily interrupted, if the wound is in the meantime guarded, by being covered with a linen rag soaked in a weak solution of carbolic acid. The sponges which are used at the operations must, after they are thoroughly cleaned and boiled (s. page 6), be kept in the strong carbolic solution, and before as well as during the operation be squeezed out in the weak solution. In the place of the sponges the anti- septic balls (fig. 19) can be used. These are balls of salicylic wool, salicylic jute, or salicylic charpie, tied up in salicylic The antiseptic ball. gauze. 3. Wounds which have already been exposed to the air, and opera- tion'-wounds which at the operation have come in contact with infectious matter, must before the application of the dressing be disinfected by washing with the strong (5 per cent) solution of carbolic acid; tliis does not retard healing by first intention; if suppuration has already set in, a stronger disinfection with 8 per cent solution of chloride of zinc is required for thoroughly washing out the wound. 4. Every bleeding -point is to be carefully ligatured with carbolised catgut, and the ends of the latter cut off close to the knot. After some time they are completely dissolved in the interior of the wound and absorbed. To render the catgut antiseptic it must lie for at least two months in a carholic emulsion (1 part of crystallised carbolic acid dissolved in 10 per cent water and 5 parts of olive oil) at a low temperature, and without being shaken. On standing, a part of the watery solution separates from the emulsion, into which the catgut is not allowed to sink. To prevent this a small stone or bead is placed at the bottom 'of the glass and over this a glass-plate, upon which the catgut rests. The latter begins to swell, becomes opaque soft and slippery, but later it again becomes transparent and as firm as silk. 5. The wounds are carefully seicn with silver-wire or carbolised silk.* * Uncoloured silk which has lain for half an hour in a mixture of melted wax and carbolic acid.