(27 C. Lastly, forcible flexion of the limb (Adelmann) is to be men- tioned as a means of controling arterial haemorrhage: the trunk of the artery is so much bent, that it prevents the blood from passing through. If for example in arterial haemorrhage from the forearm or hand, the supinated forearm is strongly flexed against the upper arm and firmly tied in that position by means of a bandage or cravat, the pulse immediately ceases at the wrist. In the same way, haemorrhage from the leg and foot can be arrested for a time by forcible flexion of the knee, and haemorrhage from the femoral artery by forcible flexion of the thigh upon the abdomen. This treatment can be successfully prac- tised in cases, where other means of arresting haemorrhage are not at hand. It is however to be observed, that a position sufficiently flexed to completely arrest haemorrhage can not be long tolerated. yj. Tying an elastic cord (india-rubber tubing or bandage) round the limb is a simpler.and at the same time the safest means of arresting the circulation. If such a cord is wound with strong traction several times round the limb, and the ends fastened by a knot or safety pin, all the soft parts and with them the vessels are so firmly compressed, that not a drop of blood can pass through. It is evident, that an elastic cord produces a lasting effect, while the belt of Petit's tourniquet soon stretches and thereby becomes inefficient. The elastic cord can also be successfully applied in any position you choose; and its employ- ment does not require an intimate knowledge of the part, which is compressed. In urgent cases an elastic brace can be used in its stead. c) The bloodless operation. Operations on the extremities can be performed without loss of blood, if they have previously been made bloodless in the following manner: 1. After the wounds or ulcers, which may be present, have been well covered with cotton wool and some waterproof material (varnished paper), the limb is firmly bandaged with an elastic roller from the tips of the fingers or toes upwards, till it has reached beyond the site of ope- ration : by this means the blood is completely driven out of the vessels. 2. Where the bandage ends, an india-rubber lube (elastic ligature) is wound with moderately strong traction several times round the limb, 4