278 If for some reason this is impossible, then the practice has always been rather to wait, till the violent reaction has passed, because ex- perience has taught, that amputations undertaken at this period {inter- mediate) yield the worst results. By waiting, the statistics of ampu- tations are certainly relatively better; but in reality more wounded men sink by this treatment than would do, if in spite of this violent reaction the amputation were undertaken, i. e., on a healthy subject and with a strict observance of all the rules of antiseptic surgery. Amputation is not indicated in gun-shot fractures of the shaft by small fire arms, if the splintering of the bone has not extended to the joint. It is the surgeon's duty, to immediately apply an antiseptic dressing, and to immobilise the injured limb in such a manner, that the shat- tered bones remain fixed, even during the transport from the battle field to the hospital. But if a longer and more troublesome transport from the place of injury is unavoidable, and there is no possibility of so fixing the limb, that its condition will not be essentially made worse by the transport, then is there an indication for immediate amputation. This applies especially to gun-shot fractures of the thigh, which are most difficult to fix for transport: but less so to gun-shot fractures of the leg. In gun-shot fractures of the upper extremity this question is scarcely considered, because they can be much more easily prepared for transport than the lower extremity. Gun-shot fractures into joints are only an indication for immediate removal of the limb, when the large vessels have also been torn by the shot, because in the latter case gangrene so soon makes its appearance. The necessity also of exposing a limb, defectively fixed, to a long transport may also be an indication for immediate amputation, as for example after severe shattering, especially of the knee and hip. In all other cases the preservation of the limb should be at- tempted ; in slight injuries of joints by a simple conservative treatment