9. The canule and tho india-rubber tube fastened to it, together with the connecting piece of vulcanite, are previously completely filled with, defibrinated blood (or with a weak solution of carbonate of sodium [ • 3 per cent], or common salt [ • 5 per cent]), and closed by means of a clip. 10. The best plan of conveying the defibrinated blood is to employ hydrostatic pressure as in the irrigator: for example, in the following manner — 11. A graduated glass cylinder, which holds 3—400 fluid grammes, ends below in a rounded and perforated point, to which is fastened a foot of india-rubber tubing. In the lower end of the latter is put a small perforated connecting piece of vulcanite, which accurately tits the connecting piece of the canule. The calibre of these parts must all be of the same diameter, so that there is no interruption in the interior of the entire tube (fig. 290). 12. Into this cylinder is poured the defibrinated blood; as soon as it flows out of the tube, it is closed immediately above the end- piece by a clip. All the air is removed from the tube by pressing and squeezing in an upward direction. 13. To prevent the blood from becoming cool, the hand which holds the cylinder can press against its outer surface an ice-bag filled with hot water. 14. The end of the tube is then attached to the connecting piece of the canule (fig. 291). The glass cylinder is raised With one hand, the patients arm with the other, both clips are removed, and the column of blood is seen to sink slowly in the glass cylinder (fig. 292). 15. As soon as the cylinder is nearly empty, the tube is com- pressed with the finger and thumb. The canule is withdrawn from the vein, the central end of the latter divided, the wound cleansed with carbolic water and an antiseptic dressing applied. 16. It is not so desirable to use a syringe for transfusion, 1) be- cause by its means too strong a pressure is apt to be employed, 2) because the blood may easily be contaminated by the piston (from rancid oil, from the dried remains of some previous injection etc.)