7. Cradles — made of bent wire and wood (wire arch) or of barrel hoops, are placed over the injured parts, so as to protect them against the accidental contact and pressure of the bed clothes (fig. 2, 3, 4). NB. The open treatmeut of wounds (freeing the wound from any dressing) gives in some cases better results than any other method of treatment, in which the wound is exposed to many injuries. C. THE CLEANSING OF WOUNDS AND THEIR VICINITY. For this purpose, there are used: 1. The looimd-douche (Esmarch-s Irrigator, fig. 5), by means of which a stream of water (disinfected by the addition of carbolic acid, permanganate of potassium, acetate of alumina, salicylic acid etc.) is conducted over the surface of the wound. The force of the stream is regulated by the pressure of the two fingers holding the pipe, and by raising and lowering the douche. A tap is unnecessary. It is arrested by sinking the nozzle into the tin-can (fig. 6). For washing out the cavities of wounds and sinuses a soft point of vulcanized india-rubber (fig. 7) may be placed on the pewter point, or a nozzle of decalcified ivory can be used (fig. 8). An irrigator (Thiersch) can be improvised, by knocking out the bottom of a wine bottle, placing an india-rubber tube through the perforated cork, and suspending the inverted bottle by a cord (fig. 9).* Care is taken not to inject the sinuses with too strong a pressure, because in this manner the fluid may be driven into the cellular tissue and produce a violent inflammation. The use of the syringe also is to be discouraged, because less control is obtained over the action of the stream than with the irrigator. * A cheap Irrigator: Take a bottle, knock a hole in the bottom and place in the mouth a perforated cork with pipe and nozzle, and hang the bottle upside down. For its suspension a pendant of five strings is used. Three of these strings are laid in their entire length upon the bottle, and cross at right angles the other two strings, of which the one is carried transversely round the body, the other round the neck of the bottle. At the point where the strings cross one another they are tied. The three strings placed lengthwise are tied together over the bottom of the bottle at a convenient height and serve for hanging up the bottle. (Thiersch: Klinische Ergebnisse, p. 728.)