14 G. Drainage-tubes well perforated, and carbolised by being kept in a strong solution of carbolic acid, are pushed into the deepest parts of the wound: and a careful compression is made upon the cavities of the wound by carbolised sponges, or pads of carbolised gauze, wool, salicylic wool, or jute. These are the means used to prevent the retention of the secretions of the wound. 7. In immediate contact with the surface of the wound is laid a piece of protective silk, steeped in a weak carbolic solution, which protects the wound against the direct influence of the carbolic acid, and at the same time when the dressing is changed, it indicates by an alteration in color (dirty-grey, sulphuret of lead) whether decom- position has taken place. Protective silk is a fine green oiled-silk made waterproof with copal-varnish, (which contains lead), and overlaid with a fine layer of a mixture of 1 part of dextrine, 2 parts of starch and lfi parts of a cold watery solution of 5 per cent carbolic acid. This together with the germs of putrefaction, which perchance are sticking to it, is again washed by dipping it into a weak • carbolic solution immediately before its application to the wound. 8. Over the protective a layer of carbolised gauze in eight folds is laid, which extends beyond the edges of the wound more than a hand's breadth; between the seventh and eighth fold is placed a piece of mackintosh or varnished silk paper (s. pag. 3), which prevents the secretion from the wound penetrating directly through to the upper surface. The whole is fastened on with gauze bandages. The antiseptic gauze is prepared in the following manner. Cotton gauze either bleached or unbleached, but containing no starch, is first placed for some time in a double-walled tin vessel, heated by boiling water or steam; then by means of a large syringe it is sprinkled with a hot mixture of 5 parts of resin, 7 parts of paraffine, and 1 part of crystallised carbolic acid, and must remain tor 24 hours under a heavy sheel of lead in the hot tin case, so that it may be equally penetrated throughout witli the mixture. The gauze is then taken out, and carefully kept till required tor application in a wrapping of parchment or varnished paper. 9. The dressing must be renewed in the same way, as often as the secretions of the wound appear at the edges of the dressing; at first once or twice a day, later on every two or three days, and at last much less frequently. The dressing is to be changed as quickly as possible. The neighbourhood of the wound is cleansed with the irrigator and cotton wadding soaked in the weak carbolic solution. The cavity of the wound is not needlessly washed out, Only when the silk has