U4 concentrated chloroform vapour (probably due to the reflex paralysis of the vagus, occasioned by irritation of the terminal filaments of the trigeminus in the nasal and buccal mucous membranes). Violent convulsive movements occur, and after a few stertorous gasps the respiration suddenly ceases. The abdomen is retracted and becomes hard like a board, the pulse at first slow soon becomes im- perceptible, the face purplish, the jaws clenched together, and the tongue, convulsively retracted, depresses the glottis (spastic asphyxia). 11. In the stage of most profound tolerance the tongue may fall back against the posterior wall of the pharynx in consequence of the relaxation of all the muscles connected with it, and the entry of air into the trachea prevented. The glottis is thus mechanically closed. In old people the flaccid lips may be drawn against the toothless jaws, and act like valves during inspiration preventing the air entering, and the alae nasi may be drawn against the septum with a similar result. Under these circumstances the respiration is snoring and difficult, the color of the face blue, the blood very dark, and the pulse weak and irregular (paralytic asphyxia). This accident is the more dangerous, because the symptoms of asphyxia are not so violent, and in a short time the whole blood, already very venous, becomes surcharged with carbonic acid. 12. The most dangerous kind of accident, that may occur during chloroform administration, and which often produces sudden death, is the sudden arrest of the heart's action (syncope). The pulse in this case almost immediately becomes imperceptible, whilst the respiration continues for a time', although superficial and irregular: the face becomes deadly blue, the pupils dilated and immovable, and the lower jaw drops. A state of collapse like this may occur at the very com- mencement of the administration of the chloroform in weakly individuals predisposed to faintness and under the influence of terror. But more frequently it is connected with the acute anaemia of severe injury which is associated with loss of blood, with chronic forms of anaemia and more especially with degeneration of the muscular tissue of the heart (fatty heart, atheroma of aorta, dyscrasia of drunkards), to which it is predisposed by the early exhaustion of its functional power. With patients of this kind especial care must always be taken, and the heart examined before the chloroform is given. Unfortunately