284 At its conclusion, the wound, the injured dura mater, and the brain itself are washed with strong (5 per cent) carbolic solution, or 8 per cent solution of chloride of zinc, and in the after-treatment all the pre- cautions of Lister's antiseptic method are most rigorously employed. J. EXAMINATION AND CLEANSING OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS FROM FOREIGN BODIES AND SEPTIC MATTERS. 1. Recent gun-shot wounds should only be examined, when the question of immediate operative interference has to be decided. It ought then to be carried out very thoroughly, and with a due obser- vance of all the antiseptic precautions. 2. Such an examination is most frequently rendered necessary in those wounds, in which 'projectiles have remained impacted, or which are complicated with comminution of bones and injury to a joint. 3. But if after such an injury some days have already elapsed, and still no symptoms have appeared of any interruption to the healing process in the interior of the wound (aseptic course), the examination may be omitted, for it might create more harm than good. 4. Instead of the daily repeated irritation, to which they are usually subjected, by probing, cutting, irrigating, squeezing, removing splinters etc., they are left alone. But as soon as there is any indi- cation, that an active interference has become necessary (such as, high fever, progressive infiltration, unhealthy suppuration, retention of pus, haemorrhage, gangrene etc.), a thorough examination and cleansing (revision) of the wound is immediately undertaken, all loose splinters of bone and foreign bodies, which can be found, removed, sufficient outlet provided for the pus, the bleeding vessels ligatured, and an endeavour made, as far as possible, to render the wound aseptic. 5. For this purpose the patient is placed upon the operating table and chloroform administered: and with the finger most carefully cleansed and disinfected, the operator then makes his way into the opening of the wound. 6. If the openings in the skin and fascia are too small, they must be enlarged with the blunt pointed bistoury. 7*. If the deeper part of the track is too narrow to admit the finger, it is enlarged with blunt instruments, e. g. with dressing forceps,