396 Appendix. Eight Plovers’ eggs with aspic. Prawns. Jelly with strawberries. Caramel basket with cara- melled fresh fruits. entremets. Noyeau jelly. French beans. Peas a I'anglaise. Chantilly basket with trifle. ANTHONY CAREME. (")F Careme it is necessary I should say a little before he pro- ceeds to tell his own story. If you believe him (see passim the six volumes of his culinary works) he was the Iiomer and Vir- gil, the Corneille and Dryden, the Pope and Boileau, the Byron and De Beranger of cookery. Every other art, noble or ignoble, every other superiority, literary, legal, histrionic, saltatory, medicinal, modistical, may be contested with the Gauls; but great and little of all nations, peers and pork-men, boyars and butchers, grab’s and gastronomers, of whatever land, all by com- mon consent agree in shouting, in loud cosmopolitan acclaim, the glories and the greatness of Careme. “ He was a man,” says one of his disciples, “ whose tension and activity of mind were never exhausted ; the more tedious and difficult were his duties, the more brilliant he emerged from them.” The greatest men in ancient and modern times have written their own history. Plato in his choicest dialogues gives us an insight into his own character; Cicero, in his work “ De Oratore,” paints himself under a feigned name ; Caesar writes us an account of his own exploits in his “ Commentaries,” as the Duke of Wellington does in his “Despatches Montecuculli penned his own Memoirs; and Napoleon laboured at the “Memoriel de St. Helene;” why, therefore, should not a greater man in his own estimation than any one among them all, reveal his own precious history and the mysteries of his science, and lay patent to the public the simple grandeur of his batteries de cuisine ? Ay, why not ? Open the pages of his instructive Memoirs and Autobiography, and see whether there is any one of the Useful Knowledge Society heroes who have gone so far in the pursuit of knowledge under imminent and impending difficulties, as that really noble fellow