386 Appendix. City companies at their several entertainments.* They were to have neither swan, crane, nor bustard under the penalty of forty shillings. During the reign of Elizabeth, the city venison feasts became offensive to the queen and her nobility. In consequence, a letter, signed by the Lord Mayor and two aldermen, was addressed to Lord Burleigh, in which these officials say, “ For avoyding the excessive spending of venison and other vitail in the halles of this citie, which we understand to have been offen- sive to her ma,ie and the nobilitie, we have by act of common counsel forbidden such festes hereafter to be kept, and have restrained the same only to necessary metinges in wh also veni- son is permitted as by copie of this act herewith sent into yr L. may appere.” These worshipful personages go on to assure Lord Burleigh that, unless similar proceedings be adopted in St. Martin’s and Westminster, the restraints imposed on the City of London would be of little use. The golden age of cookery in modern times in England, however, was the reign of Queen Anne. The Queen herself was fond of good eating, and elaborate feasts became the cus- tom among the nobility, gentry, and wealthy traders. In this reign it was that Dr. King published his “ Art of Cookery, in imitation of Horace’s “ Art of Poetry,” making an attempt to introduce French dishes. In an oft-quoted passage of his poem he says :— “ The French our relish help, and will supply The want of things too gross by decency. Our fathers most admired their sauces sweet. And often asked for sugar with their meat; They butter’d currants on fat veal bestow’d, And rumps of beef with virgin honey strew’d.” Sir John Hill.M.D., followed Dr. King, with “ Mrs. Glasse’s Cookery Book,” in which are some few receipts for French dishes. The great Lord Chesterfield, however, was the first nobleman who0 made the most strenuous efforts to introduce French cookery. He engaged as his cook La Chapelle, a des- cendant of the famous cook of Louis XIV. La Chapelle pub- lished a treatise on cookery in three volumes, which is now very rarely met with. It is entitled “The Modern Cook,” by History of London, vol. n, p. 250.