398 Appendix. the blaze and bustle of the kitchen to compose his evening notes. It was owing to these “viginti annorum lucubrationes ”—it was owing to the “ severe studies of the empire,” that he was at length, after wrestling with difficulties unheard of, enabled “to seize on sugared entremets as his domain in fee.” He had, too, all the independence of mind of a great genius, “ the surveil- lance of Russia appeared degrading to him, and he promptly left the land of the tyrant and the slave. Nor was this all: such was the profoundness of his ennui in this work-a-day world of ours—in this heavy, muddy, manufacturing England—that he was forced to leave the service of George IV. to resume the composition of his works. These works are collected in six volumes; and, as one great genius may be permitted to speak of another, “ they are,” says William Hall, cook to Thomas Peere Williams, and “con- ductor ” of the parliamentary dinners of Viscount Canterbury, —“ they are the productions of a man whose imagination greatly enlarged the variety of entrees and entremets previously prac- tised, and whose clear and perspicuous details render them facile, not only to the artist who has already an advance in his profession, but also to those whose knowledge of the higher code of the kitchen has been necessarily limited.” The cooks of Rome and Athens stood in the market-place with aprons on, waiting to be hired for the occasion, and, after they had done the day’s service, were ignominiously dis- missed out of doors; but the cooks of our day are the friends and familiars of the great. “I conversed for more than an hour on gastronomy with Prince Esterhazy,” says Careme, “ and it is astonishing what a knowledge of the art he displayed.” How different, however, is the fate of different authors! Cor- neille died in an unknown corner, in forlornness and distress; Goldsmith was always in want of a guinea; Samuel Johnson was often sorely pinched; glorious John Dryden laboured hard for the day’s dinner; Fielding was often in the hands of bailiffs, and Savage and Otway lived and laboured in misery and distress: but Careme, unlike these, gained not only im- mortality, but money ; not only praise, but good solid pudding. “ My works,” says he, “ created me, exclusive of places whose emoluments I sacrificed, a yearly income of more than 20,000 francs.” The most amusing of these works is undoubtedly an auto-