402 Appendix. that Paris which I had never ceased to regret, and on my arrival, entered the service of the Princess Bragation, a lady of high rank, good, clever, and mistress of a table which, in delicacy, dignity, and culinary novelties, yielded the palm to no lordly table, whether French or English. The taste of this lady was exquisite. She had a grace, a charm of conver- sation which were cited as models. I always served my dinner en maitre dhotel, and was uniformly complimented. The prin- cess said to me one day, ‘ Careme, did they not tell you that you were entering the service of a capricious lady ?’ I signified assent. ‘ You see the contrary, however, for I am delighted with your bills of fare, and accept them as you offer them.’ I thanked the princess, and added that the characteristic quality of my cookery was, above all, that delicacy and that variety which she was good enough to praise. One day somebody said that he had been invited to a dinner dressed by Careme. Her highness immediately answered, ‘ There must be a mistake, for I am sure that Careme dresses no dinner out of my house.’ Madame understood my character. The guest replied, ‘Well, this cook of which I spoke is a pearl, at all events.’ ‘ Say rather,’ rejoined the princess, ‘ a false pearl, while mine is a real one.’ And there I was, as large as life! “ The princess was often ill. One day at dinner, and before me, the Prince de Talleyrand felicitated her on improved health. ‘ Yes, I am better, and I owe that to Careme.’ The prince, with his usual intellectual grace and kindliness, ap- proved of the princess’s remark. At that moment I was very happy. “ During my journey into Russia, Lord Stewart wrote to me at Petersburg, to engage me to go with him to Vienna, 1 as he could find no cook who reminded him of me.’ These were his very words. The Princess Bragation being some time after- wards almost perpetually confined to her bed, my place became nearly a sinecure, and I obtained from my kind patroness the permission to return to Vienna. When I arrived in the latter capital the ambassador was no longer there, but I rejoined him at Laybach. “ On my return to Vienna, I undertook the editing of the bill of fare (la redaction du menu), which was not changed. I each day received in our magnificent kitchen the visit of mi- lord ; he daily bestowed on me presents and encouragements.