Sect. IV. 245 of the stomach, the two layers again separate; one passes over the anterior, and the other over the posterior surface of the stomach : at the lesser curvature they are connected, and, passing upwards to the concave surface of the liver and dia- phragm, constitute the lesser omentum. The layers of the lesser omentum then separate : the posterior is continued over the posterior part of the concave surface of the right lobe of the liver, descends over the posterior wall of the ab- domen and pancreas, and is continued with the upper layer of the transverse mesocolon: the anterior is continued from the left extremity of the stomach to the spleen, and having given it a complete covering passes to the parietes ; but on the right side it passes over the left lobe and over the anterior part of the concave surface of the liver, round its edge, covers its convex surface, and is reflected from it so as to form the processes called the ligaments of the liver; it then lines the concave surface of the diaphragn\, descends over the fore part of the parietes of the abdomen, and is continued down to the lower part of the recti muscles, from whence the tracing commenced. Contents of Gltsson’s Capsule. May now be dissected by cutting through the peritonaeum and clearing away the cellular membrane. They consist of the trunks of the hepatic artery, the vena portae, the biliary ducts with the nerves and absorbent vessels and glands of the liver; intermixed with cellular substance. The hepatic artery is situated on the left; the biliary ducts, consisting of the ductus hepaticus, which passes down from the liver, the ductus cysticus, which is continued from the neck of the gall-bladder, and the ductus communis choledochus, which is fonned by the union of the two, on the right; and the Vena Fortce behind and between them. The nerves and lymphatics surround the great vessels. § 3. STRUCTURE OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. To dissect this properly, portions of the different intestines should be taken out from the body. CEsophagus. Its course has been already seen in the neck and posterior mediastinum. See pages 185 and 197. It begins in the neck about the fourth or fifth cervical vertebra, and terminates at the cardia of the stomach, after having passed through the diaphragm. 1 It is formed of two tunics, a muscular and a membranous. The muscular is composed of two layers, an external, con-