164 Sect. III. crura ; the posterior to the bottom of the aqueduct. It is continued through the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, first above and then under the ophthalmic branches of the trigemi- nal nerve, and passes through the foramen lacerum orbitare. 4. Inner Oculo-mijscular, Nerv. oculo-mus- cularis interims, superior, patheticus, par quartum. Is the smallest of the cerebral nerves. It arises immediately behind the testes from the processus ad testes. The nerve then pro- ceeds downwards and forwards, over the crus cerebelli before the edge of the pons Varolii, over the crus cerebri, is con- tinued along the under surface of the brain, passes near the posterior clinoid process into a sheath of dura mater by which it is separated from the cavernous sinus, communicates by one thread with the first branch of the fifth, between which and the motor oculi it is placed, and then passes through the foramen lacerum into the orbit. 5. Trigeminal, Nerv. trigeminus, par quintum. It makes its appearance between the pons Varolii and crus cerebelli. It maybe traced towards its source from the part where it makes its appearance through the crus cerebelli up- wards and backwards, to the depression between it and the corpus olivare, and takes its origin from both of these. In the first part of its course the fibres are not distinct, and it is surrounded by cineritious substance. It gradually enlarges at the part where it appears at the base; is flattened, but be- comes rounder and smaller; then spreads in passing to the edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, along which it is continued forwards in a sheath of dura mater which sepa- rates it from the cavernous sinus. Upon the anterior part of its surface it is enlarged, and forms the semilunar ganglion, which for the most is of a homogeneous structure, like the .ganglia, having its convexity anteriorly and inferiorly, where becoming again fibrous, it passes off in three principal branches. I. The ophthalmic, or superior branch, the smallest, is con- tinued along the outer and under part of the cavernous sinus to the orbit through the foramen lacerum. 2. The superior maxillary, the middle in size and situation, passes forwards to the foramen rotundum. 3. The inferior maxil- lary, the largest, from the lower and back part, passes downwards and outwards to the foramen ovale. G. External Oculo-muscular, Oculo muscu-' laris externus, abducens, par sextain. It arises from the upper end of the corpus pyramidale and posterior edge of the pons Varolii. It sometimes arises alone from the corpus pyra-