Sect. V. 299 of the lateral ventricle, and distributes branches to the thala- mus nervi optici. Not always met with. The origin of the cerebral arteries is not always constant and symmetrical, as above described; occasionally both the middle arteries arise from the right carotid, and the anterior only from the left. III. Subclavian Artery. A. Suhclavia. The difference of the origin of the subclavian artery on the right and left side has been already remarked ; the left arising immediately from the arch of the aorta, and the right from the unnamed trunk. The varieties occasionally met with in their origin have been also noticed. They both pass upwards through the upper opening of the chest, bend outwards over the first rib, are continued between the scaleni muscles, out- wards and downwards; and having descended below the clavicle, change their name to that of the axillary arteries. In consequence of the difference of origin of these arteries on the right and left side, they differ before they pass over the first ribs, in—a. Situation, the right being more superficial; the left deeply hid [arising farther back from the arch of the aorta].—/3. Length, the right being shorter by the length of the arteria innominata.—7. Direction, the right passing obliquely upwards and outwards to the space between the scaleni, whilst the left passes first vertically upwards, then suddenly bends outwards between the scaleni.—<5. Relative position, the right being placed more anteriorly, near to the apex of the right lung on the outer side, and separated, behind, from the vertebral column and longus colli, to which it corresponds ; the left being covered from its origin by the corresponding lung, and closely applied to the longus colli. The course of the subclavian arteries, after their arrival at the space between the scaleni, becomes the same. Anteriorly, they have the scalenus anticus interposed between them and their correspondent veins, and then the subclavian vein and the clavicle, which latter they pass at an acute angle. On the inner side, they have the first rib, to which they are cl os ply applied, thus affording the means of ready compression : and upon the first rib, and before they have passed it, they have the pleura immediately adjacent to them, at the part where the pleura reaches above the upper opening of the chest, and terminates in a blind extremity. Behind, and to the outer side, are situated the nerves which form the axillary plexus. The branches from the subclavian are divided—into the Superior, which consist of the—1. Vertebral—2. Inferior