Sect. 1. 41 The two superior edges between the occipital and parietal angles, rather convex and serrated, the parietal edges, mar- gines parietales; the two lateral edges between the parietal and temporal angles concave and deeply denticulated, the tem- poral edges, mar gines temporales ; the two anterior edges between the temporal and sphenoidal angles also concave and irregularly plane, the basilar edges, margines bctsilares. The External Surface of the Bone Is smooth above a horizontally curved line which is called the superior transverse arch, arcus trcinsversus superior; in the middle of it is the external occipital protu- berance, protuberantia occipitalis externa ; and to these are attached above the M. oecipito frontales, and below the M. trapezii & complexi on each side ; about an inch below is the inferior transverse arch, arcus transversus inferior, to which is attached the M. splenii, recti postici majores, and obliqui superiores capitis ; from the external occipital protuberance passes down perpendicularly the occipital spine, spina occipita- lis, dividing the posterior inferior part of the bone into two parts, and on each side of it below the inferior transverse arch are the occipital pits, sulci occipitales, into which the M. recti postici minores capitis are inserted. The under and fore part of the bone then bifurcates, and diverging forms the posterior part of the great hoie, foramen magnum, it then converges, forms the fore part of the same foramen, and sends, out a strong process anteriorly, the basilar process, processus basi- luris, which terminates in the anterior angle, and that being truncated and rough, forms the sphenoidal process, 2^'ocessus sphenoidalis: on the anterior lateral edges of the foramen magnum are situated the condyloid processes, processus con- dyloides, which are of an irregular oval shape with their axes from before to behind, and facing downwards, outwards, and backwards, so that their anterior and inner edge is the deepest; they are convex from before to behind, and slightly convex from side to side; by them the head articulates with the first cervical vertebra : extending from the condyloid pro- cesses laterally outwards and rather backwards to terminate at the temporal angles, is a ridge on each side which gives attachment to the M. rectus lateralis capitis, and before them in the basilar edges, the bone is scooped out on each side to form part of the foramina lacera basis cranii posterior a : behind the condyloid processes are the foramina condyloidea posteriora, and before them the foramina con- dyloidea anteriora.