Sect. V. 305 the humeral thoracic artery are to be avoided: the artery will be found directed outwards and downwards, with the accom- panying vein before it, and the nerves of the axillary plexus behind and to the outer side. The branches of the axillary artery are the external thora- cic, the infra-scapular, and the circumflex of the upper arm. These branches present numerous varieties in number, size, and origin ; chiefly in consequence of two or more arising from a common trunk. Occasionally the supra-scapular takes its origin high up from the axillary. external THORActc. A. thoracicce externcc. Are com- monly three or four in number : viz. 1. superior thoracic. A. thoracica suprema, prima. It arises commonly nearly opposite the second rib, and takes its course downwards and forwards upon the exterior of the chest. Sometimes there are two instead of one. It is distributed to the intercostales externi, pectoralis minor, subscapularis, ser- ratus magnus, to the axillary glands and skin. 2. humeral thoracic. A. thorcicica, humeraria. It arises near the beginning of the axillary artery. Sometimes there are two branches instead of one. It divides almost imme- diately into branches distributed to the pectorales, to the del- toid, to the muscles about the shoulder, and to the shoulder- joint. One branch most commonly takes its course along the edge of the deltoid, between it and the pectoralis major. 3. long thoracic. A. tliovucica longa, mammalia ex- terna. It frequently arises from the infra-scapular. It passes forwards upon the chest, and supplies branches to the ser- ratus magnus, pectoralis major, to the integuments, and in the female to the mamma. 4. alar thoracic. A. thoracica axillaris,' alaris. Is sometimes a separate branch, detached near to the humeral tho- racic, and assisting in the supply of the axillary glands, pecto- ralis, serratus and subscapularis muscles. The external tho- racic branches anastomose with branches of the intercostal arteries. The other branches from the subclavian artery, are— 5. infra scapular. A. infra-scapular is, subscapularis. Is, in general, the largest branch from the axillary artery. It arises, commonly concealed by the axillary plexus, opposite the lower edge of the subscapularis muscle, along which it takes its course, but soon divides into an internal and a dor- sal branch. x