Sect. V. 349 frequently from the left common iliac vein. It accompanies the artery of the same name. Common Iliac Vein. Vena Iliaca Communis, Primitiva. It passes downward and outward, forming with the opposite vein an obtuse angle, and about opposite to the sacro-iliac symphysis divides into external and internal iliac vein. In consequence of the cava dividing below and to the right of the aorta, the right common iliac artery crosses over the origins of both common iliac veins. The common iliac veins are situated behind and a little to the inner side of the arteries which they accompany. 1. Internal Iliac Vein. V. Iliaca Interna, Hypogastrica. It descends into the pelvis, behind the artery which it accompanies. Its branches are of considerable size, and cor- respond in number, name, and distribution, with the branches of the internal iliac artery. Their ramifications within the pelvis are very considerable, and form a sort of plexus sur- rounding each of the viscera, viz. the bladder and the rectum, and in the female the vagina. 2. External Iliac Vein. V. Iliaca Externa. It accompanies the artery of the same name, and is situated behind and to the inner-side of that vessel. It passes with it under Poupart’s ligament, and there changes its name to that of the femoral vein. It gives off the epigastric and circum- flex iliac veins, which are distributed with the correspond- ing arteries. Femoral Vein. V. femoralis. It supplies the lower extremity with a deep-seated and superficial set of veins, like those already described in the upper extremity. The femoral vein descends through the thigh with the femoral artery: it is situated at Poupart’s ligament, and in the upper part of the thigh to the inner side of the artery, but in its course is gradually inclined behind that vessel. It passes with it through the tendon of the ad- ductor magnus, and on entering the ham takes the name of the popliteal vein. In its course the femoral gives off branches, which accompany the deep artery of the thigh and its ramifi- cations, and the other branches of the femoral artery.- It fur- nishes besides a considerable subcutaneous branch, called the