CHAPTER IV. Of the Lower Extremity. Sect. I. The lower extremity consists of the thigh, leg, and foot, which are connected by the head of the thigh bone with the acetabulum. 1. THE THIGH, Femur, Consisting of a single bone. THE THIGH BONE. Os Femoris. Situation. In the thigh between the trunk above and the leg below. Description. The os femoris is the largest hone in the body; it consists of a head, neck, and trochanters or upper part; a body or middle; and condyles, or lower part. The head, caput, is situated at the upper and inner part of the bone, forming the greater part of a sphere, and presenting a large articular surface which faces upwards and inwards, and has a rough hole in it to which is attached the round ligament; extending outwards and downwards to join with the upper part of the body is the neck, cervix, which is broader below than above, and flattest behind and before ; a rough oblique line marks the extent of the neck and the attachment of the capsular ligament in front; the upper and outer part of the body projects above the neck, forming the greater trochanter, trochanter major, it is smooth on the outer and back part where the M. gluteus maximus passes over it; its upper part gives attachment to the M. glu- teus medius&minimus, and has a deep pit on the inside to give insertion to some of the abductor muscles: about two inches below it, on the inner and back part of the bone, is a strong rounded projecting process, the lesser trochanter, trochanter minor, to which the M. psoas magnus and iliacus are attached; a curved line, tinea quadrata, extending from one trochanter to the other, gives attachment to the M. quadratus femoris, and marks the termination of the neck and the attachment of the capsular ligament posteriorly : the body, corpus, is arched in front and slightly concave behind, it is smooth and slightly rounded before, but sharp in the middle behind, forming .the rough line, tinea cispera, which occupies the middle third of the bone, and divides above and below into two lines, the two upper pass one into each trochanter, and the two lower, one