358 Sect. V. in the doublings of the peritonaeum, and may be divided into the mesentric, ventricular, coeliac, and lumbar. a. Mesenteric. Arc the most considerable both in size and number. Those of the small intestines are larger and more numerous than those belonging to the large intestines, and those corresponding to the jejunum exceed in both respects those of the other small intestines. There are generally about a hundred, but they vary in number, and many more have been sometimes counted. They are situated between the layers of the mesentery, and none nearer than from one to two inches from the intestines; they increase in size, and are placed more closely together towards the root of the mesentery. The glands of the large intestines are rarely more than thirty, and some- times, not more than twenty, in number ; the greater number are found between the layers of the transverse meso-colon. They are situated nearer to the intestines than the former. ft. Ventricular. Are situated along the greater and lesser curvature of the stomach j but they are of small size and few, seldom exceeding four or five in number. 7. Coeliac. Are the glands situated about the vena portae and the divisions of the coeliac and superior mesen- teric artery. They vary in number. d. JLumhar. Are large and numerous. They sur- round the aorta and vena cava, and are situated on the fore part of the sides of the lumbar vertebrae. 2. Absorbent Vessels of the Abdomen. 1. Of the Parietes of the Abdomen. The an- terior accompany the epigastric artery, the lateral pass along the crista of the ilium, and both terminate in the external iliac glands. The posterior pass to the lumbar glands; and those of the parietes of the pelvis are continued to the inter- nal and external iliac and to the lumbar glands. 2. Of the Viscera of the Abdomen. They may be divided into those of the urinary and generative organs, and those of the chylojjoietic viscera. A. Of the Urinary and Generative Organs. The superficial absorbents have been already described. a. Of the kidney. The superficial arise from the external surface, pass towards the sinus, and after forming several trunks, join with the deep-seated. The deep-seated arise from the interior, take their course with the vessels to the sinus, and together with the superficial terminate in the lumbar glands.