230 Sect. IV. of the muscle spread somewhat like a fan on the side of the abdomen, the superior run obliquely upwards, the middle pass nearly transversely, and the lowest are continued obliquely downwards and forwards towards the os pubis. The fleshy fibres terminate anteriorly in a broad tendon, which passes behind the tendon of the external oblique to the edge of the rectus, and there splits into two layers, one of which passes before and the other behind the rectus muscle. The lowest fourth of the posterior layer is not, however, con- tinued behind thte rectus, but passes with the anterior layer before that muscle. The posterior layer should not be ex- amined until after the rectus has been dissected. Insertion. Into the ensiform cartilage, and into the carti- lages of the six lowest ribs ; but the tendon at the upper part is extremely thin, and resembles cellular membrane. It is connected to the whole length of the linea alba, and is inserted below into the os pubis. Use. To assist the former muscle, but it bends the body in an opposite direction. From the lower edge of this muscle arise some pale fibres which pass upon the cord, and assist in forming the Cremaster muscle. 3. M. Transvehsalis Abdominis. Situation. Forms the third layer of abdominal muscles. It is displayed by reflecting the internal oblique from its at- tachments to the cartilages of the ribs, to the tendon of the latissiinus dorsi, and the spine of the ilium : its fibres run transversely. Origin. Fleshy from the cartilages of the seven lowest ribs internally, where it intermixes with the diaphragm and intercostal muscles: by a broad tendon from the transverse processes of the twelfth dorsal, and four superior lumbar ver- tebne; from the inner labium of the spine of the ilium, and from the outer half of Poupart’s ligament. At this part the muscle is intimately connected with the internal oblique. The fibres pass transversely forwards, and terminate in a broad tendon, which, except the lower portion, is continued behind the rectus muscle. The lower portion joins with that of the internal oblique, and passes before the rectus ; there are, however, some fibres observed behind the rectus. Insertion. Into the ensiform cartilage: into the whole length of the linea alba, and into the os pubis. Use. To support and compress the abdominal viscera. Some of the fibres of the Cremaster muscle are derived also from this muscle. The spermatic cord, or round ligament.