Sect. V. 353 mentioned ; and terminates in the angle formed by the right internal jugular and right subclavian vein, in some instances in one only of these vessels. Occasionally it is found wanting, in which case the absorbent trunks which otherwise form it, enter the veins separately at that part. § 2. ABSORBENT GLANDS AND VESSELS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. ■j 1. Glands of the Head and Neck. a. Glands of the Head. Their number and size are inconsiderable. Their existence in the interior of the cranium has not been clearly ascertained. They are distinct on the external surface of the head, but are more numerous on the face than on the cranium.—«. On the cranium, there are two or three small glands placed behind the ear.—ft. Or the face : there are more numerous glands, situated, some superficially upon the parotid gland, some deep-seated upon the buccinator muscle, and some behind the parotid gland. Those most constantly found, are glands situated along the under edge of the lower jaw upon the anterior belly of the digastricus muscle. ft. Glands of the Neck. There are some few of small size but not always distinct, which are placed super- ficially in the course of the external jugular vein. The deeper seated glands are more considerable, both in size and number; there are one or two near the larynx, and some few at the back part of the neck, but the most considerable are situated at the sides of the neck, (Glandulse concatenates, jugulares) and are more numerous than any other set of glands in the body, excepting those of the mesentery. They form a chain in the course of the carotid artery and the internal jugular vein, covered by the sterno-mastoid muscle, from the mastoid process to the upper part of the chest. They are most nu- merous near the division of the trunks of the blood-vessels. There are also smaller glands situated in the space between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscle and the clavicle. 2. Absorbent Vessels of the Head and Neck. 1. Superficial Absorbents of the Head. a. Superficial Absorbents of the Cranium. Lnitc to form an uncertain number of trunks. The anterior, three or four in number, accompany the temporal vessels, and enter some of the glands situated under the zygoma. The posterior, which are not more numerous, descend in 2 a