134 Sect. II. the posterior part of the spine of the ilium, to the transverse processes of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae. It is then triangular. 3. Inferior Anterior, Ligamentimi pelvis an- ticum inferius. Passes from the same part, and is attached to the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra. b. Symphysis Pubis. The ossa pubis where they form the symphysis are each covered by a layer of cartilage united by a fibro-cartilaginous substance. The union is seldom complete, and is found to vary considerably in degree, being generally separate to a greater or less extent, with a corresponding difference in the quantity of the fibro-cartilaginous substance. The uniting medium of the symphysis is covered by a strong layer of ligament, which is composed of transverse fibres. These are strongest at the lower part, and are attached to the bones of the pubis. This layer is sometimes described as a Capsular Ligament, and assists materially in strengthening the junction. c. Articulation of the Os Coccygis with the Sacrum. There is & fibro-cartilaginous substance interposed between the articulating surfaces of these bones, which forms a bond of union between them. The articulation is strengthened by longitudinal ligaments, which descend from the os sacrum, spread over the os coccygis, and connect its different portions together. The ligaments at the back part which pass between the bones are the most considerable. d. Proper Ligaments of the Pelvis, or those which are not appropriated to the strengthening of the articulations, are three, viz. 1. Posterior Sacro-ischiatic Ligament, Liga- mentum sacro-ischiaticum posterius, tuberoso-sacrum. Si- tuated at the under and back part of the pelvis. It arises from the transverse processes of the os sacrum, from the un- der and lateral part of that bone, and from the upper part of the os coccygis. It passes downwards and forwards, becomes considerably narrower and thicker, and is fixed to the tube- rosity of the ischium. 2. Anterior Sacro-ischiatic Ligament, Liga- mentum sacro-ischiaticum anterius, spinoso-sacrum. Is the smaller of the two. It arises from the same parts anterior to