Sect. I. 27 to that of the thumb before, M. flexor brevis & flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis, & abductor indicis, &behind, extensor ossis metacarpi poll.; to that of the fore finger before, M. flexor carpi radialis, & behind, M. extensor carpi radialis longior; to that of the middle finger, M. extensor carpi radialis brevior, and to that of the little finger, M. extensor carpi ulnaris. THE FINGERS. Phalanges Digitorum. The thumb and fingers of each hand consist of fourteen pieces or phalanges, of these twelve belong to the fingers, and are disposed in three rows, those of the middle finger being longest, and of the little finger shortest; whilst the thumb has but two, its middle phalanx being deficient, but they are stronger than those of the fingers. The phalanges consist of base, body, and head, and they taper from the base or upper part to the head, the intermediate part or body being rounded behind and flat before, with two projecting lateral edges to give attachment to the sheaths of the tendons. In the First Row, the base is concave from before to behind and from side to side, in which direction it is longest; the head has a pulley-like articulation upon it, concave laterally, broadest in front, and convex from before to behind. In the Second Roiv, which is wanting in the thumb, the base is concave laterally, and deepened before and behind in the middle by a lip, between which a ridge extends, dividing it into two smaller concavities : the body and head are like those of the first row, but the body is shorter. In the Third Row, the phalanges become very taper, their bases are like those of the second, but their points are ex- panded into thin rough surfaces, which are rounded at the tip and give attachment to the nails. The muscles attached to the phalanges are twenty-one; viz. before, M. flexor brevis digitorum sublimis & profundus, flexor longus & brevis, & adductor & abductor pollicis, flexor proprius & adductor minimi digiti, lumbricales (four) & interossei (seven); behind, M. extensor digitorum communis & indicator. SESAMOID BONES. Ossa Sesamoidea. Of these there are usually two at the root of the first pha- lanx of the thumb ; they are small bones, round before and flat behind ; they give attachment to the M. flexor brevis pollicis manus; sometimes there are also some to the little finger.