Sect. Ill; 155 The plexus chorouies, after extending through the middle part of the lateral ventricle, and becoming gradually broader, descends through the inferior cornu upon the taenia and cornu Ammonis. The hippocampus major, cornu Ammonis, vel arietis, runs along the descending cornu, and forms a bend like it, becoming, in its passage from behind to before, gra- dually broader and higher; it terminates by a broad extremity, which is turned inwards at the extremity of the descending cornu, and at this part has often four or five small indentures, which present a knuckle-like appearance, called the pes hippocampi: Usually there is a second eminence running along behind it, the eminentia collateralis. Along the inner concave edge of the hippocampus major runs a narrow, medullary, sickle- shaped band, called taenia, or fimbria hippocampi, with a sharp inner edge, upon which the plexus chorouies lies: it is the continuation of the posterior crus of the fornix, and terminates about half an inch sooner than the hippocampus major, imperceptibly in a convolution : it is at this concave edge that the pia mater enters into the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle. By the side of the trenia, but somewhat covered by it, more backwards and inwards, runs a similar cineritious projection, with numerous notches, called the fascia dentata, vel corpus Jimbriatum. The lateral ventricles are formed by continuous brain-substance, except where bounded by the fornix and its crura, or jimbrice, which are not continuous with their walls 3 so that when the pia mater and tunica arachnoides have been removed, a passage is formed, without cutting, from the lateral into the third ventricle, and from the inferior cornu to the exterior of the brain. A section of the hippocampus major shows its structure. Its surface is formed of a layer of medullary matter which is continuous on the inside with the taenia hippocampi, and both are connected above, with the sub- stance of the fornix and corpus callosum. Under it is a layer of cineritious substance, beginning at the indented band, fascia dentata. In the doubling of this last stratum is a second thinner layer of medullary substance. The next part to be noticed, is the Fornix. It is situated beneath the septum, and forms a vaulted covering to the third ventricle, from which it has received its name. Above and behind it is continuous with the corpus callosum; before, and in the greater part of its length, with the septum lucidum. The upper surface is convex, the under concave; the latter lies upon, and covers for the most part, the thalami, and is continued downwards and forwards. 1 he whole of the middle part, which is flattened from above to below, is called the body. Under the anterior part of the fornix, between the extremities of the thalami, is situated, on each side, a small opening, called the foramen