76 Sect. II. 3. M. Teres Minor. Situation. Below the former muscle, and often not very distinct from it: it is small and oblong, having its Origin. Fleshy from the middle and rounded part of the inferior costa of the scapula. It runs forward under the infra- spinatus, and adheres-to the capsular ligament. Insertion. By a strong short tendon into the under and back part of the greater tubercle of the os humeri. Use. To roll the arm outwards. 4. M. Teres Major. Situation. Below the former muscle : it has the same figure, but is of larger size. Origin. Fleshy from the inferior angle of the scapula, from the dorsum near to it, and from a part of the inferior costa. It adheres to the teres minor and infra-spinatus, then passes obliquely downwards and forwards. Insertion. By a broad, short, and thin tendon, with the latissimus dorsi, into the inner edge of the bicipital groove, but extending low^er down than the tendon of that muscle. Use. To draw the arm backwards and downwards, and to roll it inwards. Between the tendon of this muscle, that of the latissimus dorsi, and the bone, is placed a small bursa mucosa. c. Anterior Scapular, containing one muscle. 1. M. SUBSCAPULARIS. Situation. Filling completely the venter of the scapula ; it is of large size. It cannot be dissected till the arm be taken off from the trunk. Origin. Fleshy from the whole of the internal surface, which is marked by its fleshy bundles, from all the base of the scapula internally, and from its superior and inferior costae. The fasciculi, of which the muscle is composed, run with different degrees of obliquity, and are attached to tendi- nous intersections. They pass outwards, and converge. Insertion. Into the upper part of the lesser tubercle of the os fyumeri, by a short, flat, and thick tendon, which adheres to the capsular ligament, and like the tendons of the teres major and minor, and of the supra-spinatus, contributes to give strength to the joint. Use. To roll the arm inwards. There are two hurscc connected with this muscle. The more considerable is situated at the neck of the scapula and