Sect. I. 57 from the skull; and the junctions of the lateral sinuses with the internal jugular veins. Foramen magnum, for the passage of the medulla oblongata and anterior arteries of the spinal marrow from the skull, and the entrance of the vertebral arteries and accessory nerves into it. Foramina condyloidea anteriora, for the passage of the lin- gual nerves from the skull to the muscles of the tongue. Foramina condyloidea posteriora, for the entrance of veins into the occipital sinus. BASIS EXTERNA. The external basis, like the internal, is also divided into three portions, the anterior, or ethmoulo frontal; the middle, or sphenoido temporal; and posterior, or occipital. 1. Portio ethmoido frontalis, bounded before by the super- ciliary ridges of the os frontis, and behind by the roots of the pterygoid processes of the os sphenoides. It has anteriorly in the middle the nasal spine, and process of the os frontis ; bounded by the internal angular processes ; behind the spine is the nasal plate of the os ethmoides ; on each side of which the lamella turbinata, and convolutions of the same bone, bounded on the sides by its flat plates ; to their outer side are the orbitar plates of the os frontis, bounded by its external augular processes before, and by the orbitar plates of the os sphenoides behind. The Foramina in this division are Foramina supra orbitaria, for the passage of the supra or- bitary nerve and vessels to the forehead. Foramina frontalici, sometimes only one, for the passage of a nerve into the frontal sinuses. Foramina orbitaria interna, anteriora, 6f posteriora, the former two, for the entrance of the ethmoidal nerves into the skull; the latter two, for the passage of small arteries and nerves'. Foramina pterygoidea, for the entrance of the pterygoid nerves into the pterygoid canals. Openings of the frontal, ethmoidal, and sphenoidal sinuses. The preceding are not seen in the internal basis, the fol- lowing are, viz. : Foramina optica. Foramina lacera orbitaria superiora. Foramina rotunda. 2. Portio sphenoido temporalis, bounded before by the roots of the pterygoid processes of the os sphenoides and the styloid processes of the ossa temporum behind. It has in