Sect. VI. 435 The Os Orbiculare is hardly as big as a millet seed ; it is rather of an oval figure. It connects the incus and stapes, but is more firmly attached to the former, of which it has sometimes been considered a process. The Stapes has a strong resemblance to a stirrup. It is divided into a head, crura, and base. The head is placed upon a short neck, and slightly excavated to receive the os orbiculare. The crura are bent; that which is nearest the mastoid cells is, however, most incurvated and longest. They are grooved on the inside, and a membrane occupy ing the area of the stapes is fixed in the groove. The base, situated a lit- tle higher than the head, is of an oval figure, and is adapted to the fenestra ovalis, with which it is connected by a delicate membrane. These bones are articulated with each other by means of capsular ligaments proportioned to their size, and are covered by a delicate periosteum. The bones are moved by four small muscles forming The Tympanal Region, of which three belong to the malleus and the other to the stapes. M. Tensor Membrane Tympani. Situation. In a small bony canal, parallel with the Eus- tachian tube. Origin. From the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube. The fibres are collected into a long round muscle, which passes through the canal above mentioned, and enters the tympanum by a slender round tendon. The tendon issu- ing through a small aperture, at an obtuse angle to the line of the muscle, makes a turn towards the manubrium of the malleus. Insertion. Into the manubrium of the malleus, a little be- low the processus gracilis. Use. lo tighten the membrane by pulling the manubrium of the malleus inwards and upwards, and drawing the bone inwards. M. Externus Mallei. Situation. External to the base of the skull, on the inner and back part of the glenoid cavity of the lower iaw : it is verv difficult to find. y Origin Irom the extremity of the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and from the Eustachian tube. Takes its course backwards and outwards toward the glenoid fissure. “ short ter,don into the processus gracilis 2 f 2