Sect. IV. 232 runs up along the inner edge of the rectus muscle, covered by the anterior part of the sheath of the rectus, and gradually contracting its breadth. Insertion. Tendinous, into the linea alba, about midway between the umbilicus and pubes. Use. To assist the lower part of the rectus. The sheath of the rectus may now be examined, by cutting the muscle across the middle, and reflecting the divided por- tions from the subjacent parts. It will be seen that the ten- don of the internal oblique splits into two layers, one of which passes before the muscle with the tendon of the external ob- lique, and the other passes behind the same with the tendon of the transversalis : except at the lower part, where from the pubes to about midway between the pubes and umbilicus, the posterior layers also pass before the muscle, leaving the back part of the sheath incomplete. After the student have dissected the abdominal muscles,and understand their attachments, it is highly important that he should examine with great care the lower part of their con- nection with 'the pelvis, which may be bounded above by a line drawn from the superior anterior spinous process of one ilium to that of the other. Below this line are the parts which have particularly to do with the passage of the sper- matic cord from the abdomen, and as herniae frequently pro- trude through this canal, the parts connected with it are usually called § 2. THE PARTS OF INGUINAL HERNIA. The dissection is to be begun by making an incision up- wards in the course of the linea alba, from the pubes to a point, opposite the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium, and another transversely to meet it from that process; the integuments are then to be turned back as far as the groin: this will bring into view a layer of that kind of cellular mem- brane before described, which has been named the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique ; in tracing it downwards it will be observed to extend over the groin, and to adapt itself to the spermatic cord in passing down upon it, and if a blow- pipe be inserted under it at that part, the air thrown in will be found to raise it to the lower part of the testis. In order to display the lower portion of the external ob- lique muscle, a flap of the aponeurosis, like that of the inte- guments, is to be dissected back, as low down as Poupart’s ligament, which is a portion of the tendon of the external ob- lique muscle, stretched between the spinous process of the os pubis and the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium.