Sect. III. 159 The corpora striata are made up of alternate layers of medullary and grey substance, which are bent upwards in the same direction as the surfaces. Tjenia Semicircularis, Striata,stria cornea, geminum centrum semicirculare. In the groove between the corpora striata and the thalami there is a medullary band on each side*, of small size. It begins near the foramen Monroianum, where it is connected with the anterior pillar of the fornix. After having passed around the corpus striatum, it is continued along the roof of the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricles, and is lost towards its extremity. Having examined the Cerebrum thus far, proceed to remove the brain from the cranium. For this purpose raise the fore part of the brain and incline it backwards, and you will expose two pairs of nerves which must be divided : ]. The olfactory. 2. The optic; the junction of which will be seen upon the processus olivaris of the sphenoid bone ; and immediately be- hind it is seen the infundibulum passing from the third ven- tricle to the pituitary gland, which rests in the sella tursica. Cut through the anterior attachments of the tentorium to the superior angles of the petrous portions of the temporal bones, and proceed to divide the other nine pair of nerves. 3. The common ocnlo muscular. 4. The inner oculo muscular. 5. The trigeminal. 6. The outer oculo muscular. 7. The au- ditory. 8. The facial. 9. The glosso pharyngeal. 10. The pneumo gastric. 11. The sublingual. The accessory nerve is divided also at the same time with the 9th and 10th pairs. Pass the knife down deeply into the spinal canal, and divide the spinal marrow. After which the brain is to be carefully removed, and laid upon a table with the under surface turned upwards, in order to examine the parts there situated. Inferior Surface of the Cerebrum. In order to examine the base of the brain, the tunica arachnoides and pia mater should be carefully dissected from it, the former of which is here very loose and distinct. At the sides each hemisphere is seen to be divided into three lobes (some reckon two :) an anterior—a middle, divided from the anterior by the fissura Sylvii—and aposterior resting upon the tentorium, but there is not any distinct separation between it and the middle lobe. In the middle is seen a diamond-shaped space, bounded before by the junction of the optic nerves, and behind by two large bodies, the crura cerebri which disappear at the front of a large protuberance, the pons Varolii. In this space are seen in front the infundibulum, behind which and on each side arc two little projecting bodies, the emihenticc mamillures, and in the space between them and the crura cerebri is the pons Tarini.