272 Sect. IV. fundus on to the sides and posterior surface, which it covers as far as the base of the vesiculae seminales, and terminates in a coyvex line, which descends between them. It passes then on to the rectum, forming a pouch between it and the bladder, and covers the fore part, and more or less of the sides, of that ยง 4. OF THE STRUCTURE OF THE CONTENTS OF THE PELVIS. For the dissection of these parts the penis should be de- tached, the bladder dissected from the parts with which it is connected, and the ureters and vasa deferentia cut through : the penis and bladder are then to be taken out entire, and the bladder inflated. Urinary Bladder. Vesica Urinaria. Some difference will arise from alterations in its capacity, but when moderately dilated it is of an ovoid figure. The regularity of the figure is not, however, exact, being a little flattened before, more convex behind, and rather wider from side to side, than from before to behind. The inferior and posterior part is the most capacious. It is anatomically divided into Fundus, placed upwards and a little forward; Base, below and posteriorly; Body, be- tween ; Cervix, at the under and fore part. It is connected to the adjacent parts by means of cellular membrane and peritonaeum ; firmly connected to the ossa pubis by means of a ligamentous expansion, which passes from their arch to each side of the neck of the bladder and prostate gland ; attached to the parietes of the abdomen by means of the remains of the umbilical arteries, which pTiss upwards from the sides of the bladder to the umbilicus ; and by the urachus, continued to the same part from the fundus. The Urachus is of a conical form, and of a fibrous struc- ture. Tl^ese several attachments have been called the liga- ments of the bladder, among which is sometimes reckoned the fold which the peritonaeum forms on each side where it is reflected from the posterior surface of the bladder. The bladder is constructed of three proper coats, which arc united by interposed cellular membrane. The exterior, formed by the peritonaeum, is called peri- toneal. It is, as has been explained, partial, covering only the upper and posterior parts, and partially the sides. The second coat, termed the muscular, is composed of distinct fleshy fibres, which are stronger and deeper coloured