109 Sect. II. 1. M. Obturator Internus. Situation. On the inside of the obturator foramen, within the pelvis, covered by the levator ani. Origin. From more than half of the internal surface of the circumference of the obturator foramen, formed by the os pubis and ischium. The muscle consists of radiated fasciculi of fibres, which pass down and converge towards a strong ten- don, and are covered by an aponeurosis : the tendon, sur- rounded by muscular fibres, passes out 01 the pelvis over the smooth surface between the spinous process and tuberosity of the ischium, through the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. Insertion. By a strong tendon into the middle part of the cavity at the root of the trochanter major. Use. To roll the thigh obliquely outwards. Observe, this muscle should not be displayed till the mus- cles of the ischiadic region have been dissected. Between the tendon of this muscle, the gemini and the trochanter major is placed a bursa mucosa ; and another bursa between the spinous process and tuberosity of the ischium. 2. M. Coccygeus. Situation. Spread upon the front of the sacro-ischiatic ligaments. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy from the spinous process of the ischium, covers the sacro-sciatic ligament, upon which it spreads in its course. Insertion. Into the extremity of the sacrum and side of the os coccygis. Use. To raise the os coccygis, and to strengthen its con-> nection with the other parts of the pelvis. c. Gluteal, containing three muscles, which form the nates. 1. M. Gluteus Maximus. Situation. On the lower and bach part of the nates, giving their rounded form. It is a large muscle, covering the posterior third of the dorsum ilii, and is to be dissected by making an incision from about two inches before the superior posterior spinous process of the ilium, and extending it to the upper and back part of the trochanter major, and following the course of its fibres in that direction. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy from the posterior part of the outer labium of the spine of the ilium, from the under part of the external surface of the os sacrum, from the poste- rior sacro-sciatic ligament, over which part of the lower edge