222 Sect. III. Ligament of the Jaw and Os Hyoides. Li- gamentum stylo-mylo-hyoideum. Which passes from the ex- tremity of the styloid process to the posterior edge of the angle of the lower jaw, and thence sends a rounded elonga- tion to the appendix of the os hyoides. « § 2. ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAE IN GENERAL. '• ' - ‘ f .. , . 1. Anterior Common Ligament. Ligamentum vertehrarum commune cmterius. Is a strong ligamentous band, composed of longitudinal fibres, which extends from the fore part of the foramen magnum along the fore part of the bodies of the vertebrae, and anterior surface of the sacrum as far as the os coccygis. It is thicker upon the fore part of the vertebrae than at the sides, and is more considerable in the middle of the vertebrae than towards the intervertebral sub- stance. It is thinnest on the uppermost lumbar and lower- most cervical vertebrae, in order to allow a greater degree of motion of those parts. Besides this ligament there are oblique decussating fibres which run between the bodies of the vertebrae upon the intervertebral substance, and are sometimes distinguished by the name of Crucial Interver- tebral Ligaments. 2. Posterior Common Ligament. Ligamentum vertehrarum commune posterius. Extends along the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae within the vertebral canal, from the foramen magnum to the lower part of the lumbar vertebrae. Its breadth diminishes irregularly from above to below. In its descent it becomes broader over each of the intervertebral substances, diminishes between them upon the bodies of the vertebrae, and adheres firmly to their upper and under edges. It prevents the spine from being bent too much forwards. 3. Interspinous Ligaments. Consist of thin membranous processes, extended between the bodies of the spinous processes, and of small rounded ligaments extended between the extremities of those processes. 4. Intertransverse Ligaments. Are small ligaments extended between the transverse processes of the undermost dorsal vertebrie. 5. Cervical Ligament. JJgatnejitum nuchce. Arises from the perpendicular spine of the occipital bone,