62 Sect. I. malar process with the inferior orbitar process of the os malae; by the anterior inner edge of its nasal process with the os nasi; and by the ridge on the inside of that process with the os tui'binatum; by the upper part of the same pro- cess with the nasal process of the os frontis ; by the posterior part of the same process, and its lachrymal notch with the os lachrymale ; by the inner edge of its orbitar plate with the flat plate of the os ethmoides ; by the posterior point of the same plate with the os palati; and by its tuberosity, body, and palatine process to the same bone ; by the inner edge of its palatine process with that of its fellow; and by the nasal crest formed by the junction of both bones with the vomer. The muscles attached to it are ten; viz. the M. constrictor pharyngis superior, pterygoideus externus, buccinator, mas- seter, levator anguli oris, levator, et depressor labii superioris alaeque nasi, orbicularis palpebrarum, obliquus oculi inferior, & compressor naris. NASAL BONES. Ossa Nasi. Situation. Immediately under the nasal process of the os frontis, and between the nasal processes of the ossa maxil- laria superiora : these bones are of a small size, narrow and thick above, thin and expanded below, they form the bridge of the nose. Description. The external surface of the os nasi is slightly concave from above downwards,- and convex from before to behind; after it has began to expand, the internal surface is thick above, and concave from before to behind; it has four edges, the superior, margo frontalis, thick and deeply denticulated, to join with the nasal process and spine of the os frontis, and the nasal plate of the os ethmoides ; its external edge, margo maxillaris, grooved, and received into the nasal process of the os maxillare superius ; its inner edge, margo nasalis, flat, to join with its fellow; and its lower edge, margo alaris, thin and irregular, to join with the alar cartilages of the nose. The muscles attached to it are two ; viz. the M. occipito frontalis, & compressor naris. LACHRYMAL BONES. Ossa Lachrymalia. Situation. The os lachrymale is placed at the fore and inner part of the orbit behind the nasal process of the os maxillare superius; and before the flat plate of the os eth- moides ; it is of an oblong square shape, and veiy thin. Description. Internally it is hollow, and covers the ante- rior ethmoidal sinuses, forming the ethmoidal plate, lamella ethmoidalis ; externally it is divided by a perpendicular ridge,