282 - Sect. IV. join together laterally, and produce a raphe at the right and leit sides. The whole extent of the vagina, particularly to- wards its outer extremity, is furnished with follicles, the orifices of which are frequently visible. Round Ligaments. Ligament a rotunda. Are fixed to the edge of the uterus, superiorly and anteriorly to the fallopian tube. They pass outwards and a little upwards within the doubling of the broad ligament, so as to raise the anterior fold : then gain the internal abdominal ring, and pass downwards and inwards through the inguinal canal. Having cleared the external abdominal ring, they divide into three or four smaller bundles, which are lost in the mons veneris and labia, without attachment to the adjacent bone. The liga- menta rotunda are composed of vessels and of a bundle of longitudinal fibres, resembling those of ligament, which have been thought by some to be muscular. Reflexion of the Peritoneum within the Pelvis. The uterus is anatomically divided into a bodyr and cervix, besides which are distinguished its fundus, its corners and its sides. The peritonaeum passes into the pelvis, leaving the lower end of the recti muscles to cover the fundus of the bladder. The anterior and upper portion of the bladder re- mains uncovered, and will be more or less exposed according to the distension of the bladder, and its consequent height above the pubes. The peritonaeum afterwards gives a cover- ing to the posterior surface of the bladder 3 it then forms two lateral folds and a pouch in the middle,' similar to those in the male between the bladder and rectum ; but less marked 3 and is reflected on to the anterior surface of the uterus, to the neck of which and part of the body it is loosely attached, the degree of covering of those parts varying according to the ful- ness of the bladder, which, when distended, carries the peri- tonaeum up with it. It then gives a covering to the fundus and posterior surface of the uterus, passes a short way upon the corresponding surface of the vagina, and forms at the sides the broad ligaments before described. Behind the vagina the peritonaeum is continued on to the rectum, and forms two (often irregular) lateral folds, and a pouch between. The uterus and its appendages may now be dissected out in order to examine their structure :— Uterus. Is of a triangular figure, or rather like two triangles, a larger and smaller, which touch at their