Sect. V. ' 387 and brevis, and to the gracilis, and is connected by differebt twigs with the inferior cutaneous nerve. 2. Posterior. Is distributed to the obturatores and adductor magnus. 9. Crural. JV. cruralis. Is more considerable than the obturator; derived from the junction of the principal portions of the four upper lumbar nerves. It passes down- ward and outward, between the psoas and iliacus muscles, to both of which it furnishes twigs ; continues its course on the outer side of the psoas, descends behind Poupart’s ligament into the thigh, and crosses over the conjoined tendons of the psoas and iliacus ; it is here placed exterior to the sheath of the femoral vessels, on the outer side of the artery, and in the upper part of the thigh, divides into branches distributed to the shin and muscles. 1. Superior cutaneous. (N. cutaneus superior.) Comes off sometimes above Poupart’s ligament, and is joined by other twigs, arising near that part. It divides into from three to six branches, which are distributed to the skin, on the fore and inner part of the thigh, as far as the knee. 2. Muscular branches. Are considerable in size and number, and are distributed to the rectus, cruralis, vasti, adductores, and tensor vaginae femoris muscle. 3. Inferior cutaneous. (N. cutaneus inferior, N. saphaenus.) Descends behind the sartorius muscle, to which it gives off some twigs, and on the outer and fore part of the femoral artery, connected with and sometimes en- closed in the sheath, which contains this vessel. (N. B. There is a nerve accompanying the inferior cutaneous in its descent, which passes into the vastus interims, at the lower part of the thigh.) The inferior cutaneous continues its course through the tendons of the triceps, on the inner side of the knee be- comes subcutaneous, and accompanies the sapheena vein in its course along the inner side of the leg to the inner and up- per part of the foot. In its course, it distributes branches to the integuments of the knee and inner part of the leg and foot, as far as the great toe. 10. Ischia tic. N. ischiaticus. The largest nerve in the body, is formed by the junctions of the largest portions of the fourth and fifth lumbar, and of the three uppermost sacral nerves. It passes out of the pelvis, between the pyriformis and gemini muscles ; sometimes penetrates the pyriformis, and sometimes a slip of the pyriformis is interposed between its fasciculi. It takes its course over the rotator muscles, 2 c 2