32 Sect. I. TIIE ASTRAGALUS. Astragalus. Sil?iation. At the upper and back part of the foot and connecting it with the leg. Description. Said to resemble an ancient die; it has six articular surfaces; it is convex above from behind to before, forming its largest articular surface for the base of the tibia; on the inside it has a small articular surface nearly flat, for the inner malleolus; and on the outside it has a large articular surface concave from above downwards and pointed below, for the outer malleolus : the fore part of the bone is rounded, forming the head, which is smooth, to articulate it with the os naviculare : the under part of the bone has two articular surfaces for the os calcis, separated by a deep groove, the posterior concave from within to without, and the anterior slightly convex : those parts of the bone not occupied by articular surfaces are marked by ligament. Connection. By its upper articular surface with the base of the tibia, on the inner side with the inner malleolus, on the outer with the outer malleolus; below with the os calcis, and before with the os naviculare. The only 'muscle attached to this bone is M. tibialis posticus. THE HEEL BONE. Os Calcis. Situation. At the back, outer, and under part of theToot, projecting backwards to form the heel. Description. The os calcis is the largest bone of the foot; it is of an irregular figure; it has three articular surfaces, is flat on the outside and concave on the inside; it is much length- ened behind to form the heel, or tuberosity, tuber; on the upper and fore part where the bone appears concave, are two ai'ticular surfaces for the astragalus, the posterior convex and the anterior concave, the inner edges of which project much inwards, and form with the inside of the tuberosity a deep cavity, the sinuosity, through which the flexor tendons pass into the sole of the foot; at the fore and outer part of the bone is an irregular concave articular surface for the os cuboides. Connection. By the two superior articular surfaces with the astragalus, and by the anterior with the os cuboides. The muscles attached to the os calcis are seven; viz. to the upper part M. extensor brevis dig. pedis; to the under part, M. abductor, flexor brevis & adductor pollicis ped., flexor brevis & f. digitorum accessorius, & abductor minimi digiti.