Sect. VI. 437 canal, called the Aqileductus Vestibuli, which takes its course upwards, then backwards and downwards, and termi- nates on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, behind the meatus, and half way between its upper edge and the diverticulum of the internal jugvdar vein. So that in the vestibule there are eight openings, of which seven are always open. Semi-circular Canals. Three in number.— They correspond below and behind to the mastoid cells, form- ing about three-fourths of a circle. They are named from their position or direction : viz.—1. Vertical or superior.— 2. Oblique or posterior.—3. Horizontal or exterior. The Ver- tical forms its curve at the summit of the petrous portion, which it crosses transversely with its convex above. The Oblique, inferior to the last, describes its curve on the oc- cipital side of the petrous portion ; its convexity placed be- low* and outwards. The Horizontal is the smallest; it has its convexity towards the mastoid process, and is directly above a portion of the stylo-mastoid canal. The canals have a calibre about the size of a common pin, and are of an ellip- tical figure. They each enlarge as they enter the vestibule, forming an amqnilla, or cavitas elliptica. The orifices are only five in number, as has been described ; the smaller ex- tremity of the vertical joining with the small extremity of the oblique, and forming a common orifice. These are not closed by any membrane. Cochlea. Is so named from its resemblance to the shell of a snail. It is conical; but lies more inwards than the vestibule, and before the meatus internus; and has its direction obliquely dowmwards and outwards, so that its base is towards the meatus internus, while its apex faces out- wards. I he cochlea is constructed with a modiolus or cen- tral pillar, around which are wound a spiral tube, and a spi- ral lamina lying within the spiral tube, and dividing it into two canals. The modiolus commences from the bottom of the meatus internus, by a concave plate, which is full of small holes,foramina crybriformiu. They are the extremities of small bony tubes, which run from the base toward the apex, and communicate with each other. These bein°- blended into a mass of a conical figure, form the modiolus and terminate on its sides. As they terminate, the modiolus diminishes, and at its apex becomes exceedingly slender. I he infundibulum is an imperfect funnel, the apex of which meets that of the modiolus; its base is covered by the apex or the cochlea, which is called the cupola.