Sect. III. 157 a thin cineritious lamina, the anterior pillars of the fornix, and the anterior commissure ; its roof, by the body and posterior pillars of the fornix, and the posterior bend of the corpus callosum, or rather by the velum inter- positum ; its sides, by the thalami nervorum opticorum. It is divided into an upper and lower part by the commissura mollis. With respect to the Commissures the following circumstances may also be noticed: 1. Commissura Mollis. Is a process of soft cineritious substance, which passes across the ventricle, and connects the thalami nervorum opticorum. 2. Commissura Anterior. Is a bundle of medullary sub- stance, of a rounded figure, somewhat flattened from above to below, covered by membrane. It is situated immediately before the anterior pillars of the fornix, at which part its middle is seen to lie straight across ; but it is then continued into the fore and under part of the corpora striata, and in its passage spreads and becomes thinner, forms an arch, of which the con- vexity is forwards, and passing through the corpora striata without mixing with its substance, spreads in a radiated manner. 3. Commissura Posterior. Is a small transverse band of medullary substance at the upper and back part of the third ventricle, above the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum. Proceed with the dissection by cutting longitudinally through the junction of the corpus callosum with the begin- ning of the posterior pillars of the fornix, and turn them and the hippocampi majores to each side. The entrance of the pia mater at this part into the lateral ventricles will then be distinctly seen. Remove the pia mater carefully, and expose the pineal gland and corpora quadrigemina. Pineal Gland, Concirium. Is a small body, ovoid, placed upon the corpora quadrigemina, and of a dark cineri- tious colour. It is connected by means of two peduncles with the thalami, being placed between their posterior extremities, but at a little distance from them. The peduncles are two narrow medullary bands, -which are continued distinct upon the inner and upper edges of the thalami, till they are lost upon it near the anterior pillars of the fornix. I; rom its base is continued a lamina of matter, which turns forwards, and is continued with the substance which connects the nates, and has been already mentioned as the posterior small commissure. The pineal gland is firmer in texture than cineritious substance generally. Within it, but not always precisely in the same place, is found a yellow hard semitrans- parent substance made up of rounded grains, called by Soem- mering acervulus cerebri. It is said to be found in subjects from six years of age upwards; to be of the same composi- tion as the earth of bones; its quantity least in young sub- jects and in age; and not at all connected with disease of the