392 ' Sect V. passing through the cavernous sinus; sometimes the branch of communication is double; and sometimes there is a ganglion, ganglion cavernosum, at the point of the union. The other branch of the sympathetic joins with the recurrent branch of the second division of the lifth pair, or pterygoid nerve. Some anatomists describe small branches also which pass from the cavernous ganglion to the fifth pair or its divisions: and of late filaments have been described by Cloquet and Bock, which, continued from the above-mentioned ganglion with the ophthalmic artery, join with the lenti- cular ganglion ; so that this ganglion is considered as belonging to the sympathetic. Indeed, Cloquet considers the ganglion-like enlargements of the spheno-palatine and lingual branches of the fifth pair as parts of the sympathetic, and the pterygoid nerve as forming the connection between them and the cavernous and superior cervical ganglia ; namely, by means of its superficial branch (which is continued as the chorda tympani) with the maxillary ganglion of the lingual, and by means of its deep branch with the spheno-palatine-ganglion. 2. External branches : are four in number, which sometimes come off by a single trunk. They pass over the rectus cap. intern, maj. The two upper join with the arch formed by the connection of the sub-occipital and first cervical nerves; the third joins with that formed by the second and third cervical nerves : the fourth, given off sometimes below the ganglion, joins with the arch of connection between the third and fourth cervical, and detaches twigs to the rectus capitis internus major, and scalenus anticus. 3. Anterior branches. They are the most consi- derable in size and number, and from their softer texture are called commonly the nervi molles. The upper and shorter ascend to join with the lingual, pneuino-gastric, and facial nerves, soon after they issue from the cranium. The inferior and larger pass downward and forward, and form a plexus of filaments which join with branches of the pneumo-gastric, and surround the divisions of the carotid, as well as the common carotid itself, as far as its origin. The most con- siderable of the anterior branches is the a. Superficial cardiac, (N. cardiacus superficialis, superior,) which is formed by several filaments from the fore part of the ganglion, or from the sympathetic below it. A slender nerve is thus formed, which descends on the outer side of the common carotid, before the sympathetic; it gives some twigs to the pharynx, oesophagus, thyroid gland, and adjacent muscles, one or two of which are connected with branches of the pneumo-gastric, and terminates on the right side by branches wdiich join with branches of the recurrent