Sect. I. CHAPTER V. Of the Sutures and the Basis of the Skull. The Skull is said to be of an ovate shape, the narrowest part being in front, and the broadest behind ; it is arched symme- trically above from before to behind, and from side to side ; it is irregularly concave below. Its anterior part, which is more or less perpendicular and broad, is called the forehead, frons ; its upper part, which is generally flat, the top of the head, vertex; and behind it is the hind head, occiput; the sides of the head are usually called the temples, tempora; the boundaries of which are, the temporal arches upon the frontal, parietal, and temporal bones ; and the inferior surface forming the floor of the skull is called the external base, basis externa, which assists in forming several parts hereafter to be de- scribed and considered as belonging to the face. The bones . of the skull, by their union with each other, form that sort of junction, which is calied suture, resembling very nearly the stitches employed in joining one piece of cloth to another; it is a kind of digitation or receiving of the small finger-like pro- cesses, formed by the edge of one bone, into those of the other ; and the joint so produced is very strong and com- pletely motionless. OF THE SUTURES, Sutura, There are seven ; viz. the coronal, sagittal, lambdoi- DAL, two SQUAMOUS, ETHMOIDAL, and SPHENOIDAL. 1. Sutura coronalis, so called from being situated at that part of the head, upon which the ancients were used to place the laurel or olive crown, given to the victors in their games. It commences about an inch behind the external angular pro- cess of the os frontis, passes vertically over the skull, but rather inclining backwards, and descends to terminate at the same point on the opposite side of the skull. It joins the os frontis with the two ossa parietalia. 2. Sutura sagittalis. Named from its straight course. It commences from the middle of the highest part of the coronal suture, runs directly backward.;, and terminates at the occipital angle of the os occipitis ; this termination is known in the living subject by continuing round the head that hori- zontal line from which the coronal suture takes its origin.