Sect. V. 393 laryngeal: but on tbe left side it reaches lower, and joins with the other cardiac nerves. 4. Inferior branch may be considered as the con- tinuation of the trunk of the sympathetic. It varies in size and length. It descends on the rectus capitis interims major and longus colli muscle, at first behind the internal carotid, then behind and to the outer side of the common carotid artery; and sometimes divides inferiorly into two branches. It detaches twigs which join with the accessory and upper cervical nerves, and with the superficial cardiac and pneumo- gastric nerve ; and terminates in the— 2. Middle Cervical Ganglion. Ganglion cervicule medium. Is situated near the inferior thyroideal artery, between the sixth and seventh cervical vertebne upon the longus colli. It is not so constant as the superior, but is found in the greater number of instances. It varies in shape, is sometimes very small, and occasionally double. It sends off 1. External branches which join with the inferior cervical nerves, commonly with the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh. 2. Internal branches which accompany the thy- roideal artery, and join with the recurrent laryngeal. 3. Anterior branches, or deep cardiac nerve, (N. cardiacus profundus, magnus, medius,) five or six in number. This descends inwards, at first along the common carotid, then upon the subclavian artery, is connected by several filaments with the pneumo-gastric, and joins with the third cardiac nerve to form the cardiac plexus. The right descends from the subclavian along the unnamed artery, where that vessel divides, joins by means of a ganglion with one or two branches of the pneumo-gastric, and then passes between the arch of the aorta and the bifurcation of the trachsea : the left joins with one or two branches from the inferior cervical ganglion, (so that the middle and inferior cardiac branches which are separate on the right side are joined on the left,) then passes behind the arch of the aorta, is connected by filaments with the pneumo-gastric, and unites with the right cardiac btanches to form the cardiac plexus. 4. Inferior branches. Form the continuation of the sympathetic ; they are five or six in number. They de- scend before and behind the subclavian artery, to join with the inferior cervical ganglion. Sometimes there is only one short trunk which connects the middle with the inferior cervical ganglion.