110 .Sect. II. of this muscle is folded, and from the os coccygis. The fleshy fibres run obliquely downwards and forwards, forming a thick and broad muscle* which is composed of coarse and loosely connected fasciculi, intermixed with and covered by a con- siderable quantity of adipose membrane. The upper part of it covers the trochanter major, and it is connected with the tendinous expansion which covers the thigh. Insertion. By a strong, thick, and broad tendon into the upper and outer part of the linea aspera, extending from the trochanter major for some way downwards, and into the fascia of the thigh. Use. To extend the thigh backwards, and to rotate it outwards. Several bursa; mucosa; are situated on the internal surface of the tendon of this muscle. The most considerable is found between it and the external surface of the trochanter major. A considerable, but smaller one, is placed between its broad tendinous expansion and the upper part of the vastus externus, and two smaller ones commonly between the muscle and the os femoris, at the upper and back part of the thigh. 2. M. Gluteus Medius. Situation. Upon the dorsum ilii, immediately under the common integuments, on the two anterior thirds of the dor- sum, where it is covered by a strong fascia; and behind by part of the origin of the gluteus max. which must be turned back. Origin. Fleshy from the anterior and superior spinous process externally, from a large share of the outer lip of the ilium, and posteriorly from the dorsum of the bone. The fore and upper part of the muscle is covered by a continuation of the fascia of the thigh, from which it receives numerous-fleshy fibres, Insertion. By a strong short tendon into the outer and back part of the trochanter major. Use. To extend the thigh outwards and slightly back- wards. A bursa is placed between this muscle and the upper part of the trochanter major. 3. M. Gluteus Minimus. Situation. On the dorsum ilii, and covered by the last muscle, which should be raised from the under and back part of its origin, to expose it: this should, be done cautiously, without raising with it the pyriformis muscle. Origin. Fleshy from a semilunar ridge, which is con- tinued from the anterior and superior spinous process of the