324 Sect. V. passes behind Poupart’s ligament, and changes its name to that of the femoral artery. After furnishing some unimportant branches to the psoas and iliacus muscle, it gives oft' near Poupart’s ligament the epigastric and circumflex arteries. 1. epigastric. A. epigastrica. It arises commonly from the inner side of the external iliac, immediately above Pou- part’s ligament; but sometimes higher. It comes off not unfrequently, as has been already described, by a trunk in common with the obturator artery ; occasionally from the femoral, and in some rare cases, from the common iliac or deep artery of the thigh. It first passes a little downwards, then bends upwards, and is directed obliquely inwards and upwards towards the back part of the rectus muscle, crossing the spermatic cord or round ligament, and is situated to the inner side of the internal abdominal ring. In an oblique inguinal hernia it is situated to the inner side of the mouth of the sack, and would therefore be endangered by directing an incision, for liberating the stricture, inwards : in a direct inguinal hernia it is placed on the outer side of the mouth of the sack, and might therefore be divided by carrying an incision outward. In a femoral hernia it is situated above and to the outer side, so as not to be easily endangered, except where it arises from the femoral artery ; in which case it might be wounded by carrying an incision outwards. Having reached the back part of the rectus muscle about midway, between the umbilicus and pubes, it then ascends nearly perpendicularly upwards, between the muscle and posterior layer of its sheath; divides commonly into two branches near the umbilicus, detaching branches to the fore part of the abdominal muscles, and terminates above the navel by forming anastomoses with the epigastric branch of the internal mammary, and the lower intercostal arteries. Near the internal ring it sends off— a. A branch, which after detaching a branch to form a communication with the obturator, passes upon the spermatic cord, or round ligament, and is distributed upon it. 2. circumflex of the ilium. A. circumfiexa ilii. Arises commonly nearly opposite to the epigastric, but sometimes a little higher or lower than that artery, from the outer side of the external iliac. It bends upwards and outwards to the spine of the ilium, in the course of which it runs from before to behind, between the transverse and internal oblique mus- cles. It furnishes branches in its course to the iliacus, sar- torius, and broad abdominal muscles, and forms communica- tions with the epigastric and ilio-lumbar arteries. It some-