150 Sect. III. 2 & 3. Lateral Sinuses, two in number. Begin at the termination of the longitudinal sinus, pass outwards on each side in the grooves of the transverse ridges of the os occipitis, are continued in the sulci of the temporal and occi- pital hones, at first outwards, then downwards, and terminate at the base of the cranium, in the internal jugular veins, at the foramina lacera basis cranii, where those veins begin. 4. Torcular Herophili (fourth sinus.) Ob- tained this name from the exploded notion that the blood is squeezed as in a torcular or wine-press. It is formed by the vena magna galeni (afterward to be shown ;) it passes back- ward between the falx and tentorium; and, descending a little, terminates, most commonly, in the left lateral sinus. These are the four which are important with respect to size and function. The others have been thus enumerated: 5. Inferior Longitudinal Sinus. Situated at the under edge of the falx; of small size, round, receives veins from the adjacent parts, and terminates in the torcular Herophili. 6. Circular Sinus (of Ridley.) Placed about the pituitary gland, terminates in the cavernous sinuses. 7 & 8. Cavernous Sinuses. Situated at the sides of the sella tursica, receive branches from the adjacent parts and from the ocular veins, surround the carotid arteries, ap- pear cellular, and communicate with the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses. 9. Superior Petrosal Sinuses. Situated on the ridges of the petrous portions of the temporal bone, receive blood from the cavernous sinuses and adjacent parts, and terminate in the lateral sinuses. 10. Inferior Petrosal Sinuses. Situated at the roots of the petrous portions of the temporal bone, receive blood from the cavernous sinuses, communicate with each other by 11. The Transverse Sinus (which runs across the basilar process of the os occipitis,) and with the jugular veins, but not with the lateral sinuses. 12. Occipital Sinuses. Situated near the fora- men magnum, communicate with the inferior petrosal and lateral sinuses, and the vertebral veins. The sinuses commu- nicate at many parts with veins which pass through the bones of the skull. Cut round the Dura Mater on a level with the section of the skull, and divide the falx major which passes between