Sect III. 197 tlium approximating behind the sternum. Nearly opposite to the fourth rib it is inclined to the left margin of the sternum, and terminates about the sixth rib. The direction of the me- diastinum, however, varies a little in different subjects. A small quantity of cellular membrane is interposed between the layers of the pleurae, and at an early period of life in its upper part the remains of the thymus gland are fre- quently found. Thymus Gland. The thymus gland, placed in the anterior mediastinum, after birth begins to be absorbed, and in age few traces of it are to be found. In the foetal state it is of considerable size, of a pale red colour, and is composed of two lobes. It has two cornua above and two below; the two inferior are rounded and thicker, and not unfrequently de- scend as low as the diaphragm; the two superior are more pointed and slender, and ascend in the neck as high as the thyroid gland. The two lobes are made up of numerous lobuli, connected by cellular membrane, and when they are cut into, a milky fluid may be squeezed from them. If, after having noticed the anterior mediastinum, the sternum be completely removed, a large vein will be seen crossing ob- liquely from the left to the right side, where it joins with an- other which passes down perpendicularly ; those are the two subclavian veins, which joining form the vena cava superior. A little below and behind the left subclavian vein will be seen the arch of the aorta with two of its great vessels, that on the right the arteria innominata, and that on the left the arteria carotis communis sinistra; these together form a kind of fork- like space, in which the lower end of the trachaea is seen crossed by the arteria innominata, and having the left carotid on its left edge. As these parts are only connected by loose cellular membrane there is little difficulty in showing them distinctly. b. Posterior Mediastinum-. Is formed by the two portions of the pleurae, which pass between the posterior part of the pericardium and the dorsal vertebrae. It is most conveniently dissected by turning the left lung over to the right, side, fixing it in that situation, and cutting through the pleura on the left side. Its contents may then be ex- amined. It contains the aorta, the main trunk of the arterial system, which is placed rather to the left side upon the ver- tebrie ; the cesophagits, the muscular tube which conveys the food from the pharynx to the stomach, which is situated before the aorta below, and inclined to the right; the vena azygos, a vein which returns the blood from the intercostal spaces, which takes its course close to the spine upon its an- terior part, and the thoracic duct, the main trunk of the ab- sorbent vessels. The thoracic duct passes from the abdomen