419 Sect. VI. nasal process of the superior maxillary bones, and to the car- tilages of the alae by a ligamentous substance. They are of a triangular figure, and externally more or less convex. 4 & 5. Cartilages of the Alae. Are two in number. Their shape is irregular, but so as to form the greater part of an oval, being composed of two branches united in front. Between the lateral and the alar cartilages are small cartilaginous bodies, of which the number, size, and figure vary. Having attended to these points, it will be proper to make a section of the head, in order to display the internal parts of the nose, together with the cavities and openings connected with them. For this purpose the one half of the lower jaw should be removed; and in so doing it should be carefully detached from the parts connected with it. The next object will be to cut out a suitable portion of the bones of the head and face : it may be done (after having removed the brain) by applying the saw to one side of the crista galli, on a line drawn from the os frontis to the sella tursica, then sawing perpendicularly through the frontal, sphenoid and ethmoid bones into the cavity of the nose, on the same side, and the bony palate and palatine bone are to be sawed through from below in the same direction. The saw is next to be applied at a point on the parietes of the cranium, corresponding to the anterior edge of the glenoid cavity, and a cut is to be made which shall meet the first at the sella tursica, and is then to be carried perpen- dicularly through the basis of the cranium. These cuts will insulate a triangular portion of the bones of the head and face. Their removal will give an opportunity of examining several parts requiring notice, viz.—The extent and form of the cavities of the nose.—The openings into each from the lachry- mal sack, the antrum maxillare, the frontal, ethmoidal and sphenoidal sinuses.—The passage of the fauces with its pil- lars, the uvula, the situation of the tonsils, and the mechanism of the velum pendulum palati.—The extent and form of the pharynx, with the situation and relation of the openings into it from the nose, mouth, ears [Eustachian tubes,] larynx, and oesophagus.—The form of the posterior part of the tongue.— The mechanism and situation of the epiglottis. Internal Part of the Nose. Comprehends the internal nares or cavities of the nose. These cavities have an irregular form, and are divided by the septum. Their greatest extent i3 from behind to before; and their breadth is the1 least considerable dimension. Their direction is a little oblique from before hindwards. They are formed, above, by the crybri- 2 e 2