307 Sect. V. Brachial Artery. A. Brachialis. Passes from the axilla to below the bend of the elbow where it terminates by dividing into the radial and ulnar arteries. During the greater part of its course it is situated to the inner side of the arm. As it descends, it is placed more superficially and anteriorly; at the bend of the elbow it is opposite to the middle of the articulation. Anteriorly:—It has first the edge of the coraco-brachialis, which more or less covers it. In the greater part of the rest of its course it corresponds, and is nigh to the inner edge of the biceps muscle. At the bend of the elbow it is covered by the aponeurosis of the biceps muscle, and is crossed by the basilic median vein. Posteriorly:—It has the triceps, from which it is separated by fat and cellular membrane; passes over the os humeri, and, interiorly, is continued down upon the brachialis interims. To the inner side:—It is im- mediately adjacent to the brachial vein and median nerve, which latter is placed rather anteriorly; it is separated from the skin by fat and cellular membrane. To the outer side :— It has the coraco-brachialis, which separates it from the os humeri: as it descends it corresponds to the biceps, and near its termination to the tendon of that muscle. The branches which it gives off are one or two deep branches, and other small branches to the muscles. 1. deep humeral. A profunda humeri. Arises com- monly near the edge of the tendon of the latissimus dorsi; passes then outwards and downwards, accompanied by the spiral nerve, between the heads of the triceps, and behind the os humeri. It supplies numerous branches to the heads of the triceps in its course, and commonly furnishes the nutri- tious artery (A. nutritia) of the os humeri (which, where this is not the case, arises from the brachial itself.) Its divisions anastomose with brauches of the scapular and circumflex arteries. It gives off a. Communicating radial, (R. communicans ra- dial is,) which passes from behind the os humeri, and is con- tinued on its outer side as far as the outer condyle, furnish- x ing branches to the biceps and brachialis interims, and anas- tomosing with the recurrent radial branch of the radial artery. 2. inferior deep humeral. A pr ofunda inferior, minor. Comes off lower than the former, it is sometimes a branch x 2