396 Sect V. to the viscera contained within the abdomen. They are situated before the abdominal aorta, behind the peritonaeum, find surround the trunk of the cooliac artery. There are com- monly two considerable ganglia, called the semi-lunar from their figure, situated one on each side, about an inch in length, and of considerable breadth and thickness. The right is (jpmmonly larger than the left, and is situated between the vena cava inferior, and the right crus of the diaphragm, contiguous to the right renal artery. The left is placed between the left crus of the diaphragm, and left renal capsule, near the pancreas. These are connected by numerous fila- ments, which pass transversely between their inner edges, dividing and joining in their course. About these principal ganglia, between the coeliac and superior mesenteric arteries, are several smaller ganglia called the Cceliac, connected with the semilunar, and with each other by cross filaments, from which numerous other filaments pass off: all ^hese filaments form together an intricate web which has been termed the Solar Plexus. Sometimes the semilunar ganglia are divided into several smaller ganglia, connected by numerous small filaments. From the Solar Plexus numerous filaments are continued with the principal arteries, forming junctions with each other, and intermixed with cellular substance. Each of\hese sets of filaments is called a plexus, and is named according to its course or distribution. The plexuses are 1. Hepatic Plexus. PL hepaticus. Passes downwards and to the right, accompanies the hepatic artery, and divides into a right and left plexus, which take the course of the divisions of the artery and penetrate the cor- responding lobes of the liver. They are joined by filaments from the right pneumo-gastric. It detaches filaments, which form the— a. Inferior stomachic plexus, which is continued with the right inferior gastric artery along the greater curva- ture of the stomach. /3. Filaments to the pylorus, duodenum, and pancreas, accompanying the arteries to these parts. ‘2. Splenic Plexus. PI. splenicus. Consists of filaments which accompany and surround the splenic ar- tery, along the pancreas. It furnishes filaments to the pan- creas and stomach, and passes then with branches of the splenic artery into the spleen.