280 Sect. IV. coccygeus; and from the spinous process of the os ischium. Its fibres descend like rays from a circumference to meet those of its fellow, and form with it a kind of funnel. Insertion. After embracing the inferior part of the vagina and rectum, into the perineum, sphincter ani, extremity of the vagina and in the rectum. Use. Same as in the male. ยง 3. OF THE CONTENTS OF THE PELVIS AND SIDE VIEW. Internal Parts of Generation. Are the Vagina, Uterus, and its Appendages, consisting of the two ovaria, the two fallopian tubes, the two round and the two broad ligaments. The Uterus is placed in the middle of the pelvis, between the bladder and rectum : it is continuous with the upper ter- mination of the vagina. The Appendages are situated at the sides. Two extensive doublings of peritomeum called the broad ligaments fix the uterus to the lateral parts of the parietes of the pelvis ; forming, together with the uterus and upper part of the vagina, a transverse partition that divides the cavity into two nearly equal parts, in the anterior of which the bladder is situated, in the posterior the rectum. These ligaments are continuous with the peritonaeal covering of the uterus, with the peritonaeal lining of the pelvis, and their edge is on a level with the base of the uterus. Between them, in a cellular texture containing more or less fat, are placed on each side the ovarium, the fallopian tube and the round ligament; which have separate coverings, so as to project from the broad ligament, and have been called the alae of the broad ligament. Side View of the Pelvis. For general directions, see p. 269. The contents of the pelvis from the side ought to be pre- pared in order to a better view of their relative position. The axes of the pelvis and trunk do not correspond; that of the former being oblique with respect to the latter. The con- tents of the pelvis partake of this oblique bearing, and are influenced by the form of the pelvis. The rectum is straight at the lower extremity, but in the greater part of its course takes the curved direction of the sacrum. Before it lies the vagina taking a similar curve as it rises upwards, connected to the rectum behind, and to the bladder and urethra before, by cellular membrane. It is mo-