Sect V. ' 327 found much enlarged when the external iliac artery has been tied.* /3. External Circumflex. (A. circumflexa ex- terna.) Arises commonly from the outer side of the deep ar- tery nearly opposite the former, but often lower, and more rarely from the femoral. It takes its course outwards under the rectus and over the fore part of the os femoris, and di- vides into two principal branches. One which is continued in the direction of the trunk bends round the trochanter ma- jor, furnishes branches to the gluteus medius principally and adjacent parts, and forms communications with the internal circumflex, gluteal, and ischiatic arteries, which are enlarged after the operation of tying the external iliac artery. The other branch is more considerable. It descends on the pos- terior surface of the rectus, and divides into branches to the rectus, crureus, and vastus externus muscles, and one com- monly descends on the vastus to the knee. The profunda after detaching the circumflex arteries passes through the adductor magnus and divides into the rami p erfor antes; sometimes it passes down before that muscle and gives off these branches successively, and the arteries then pass through that muscle to the back of the thigh. There are usually two, but sometimes more, occasionally as many as five, perforating branches, distributed chiefly to the mus- cles at the inner and back part of the thigh. 7. First perf'orant. (A. perforans priina.) Passes through the triceps a little below the trochanter minor, and commonly divides into two branches. One of which ascends behind the trochanter major, forms communications with the external circumflex, and distributes branches to the gluteus maximus, which communicate with branches of the gluteal. The other branch bends outwards round the thigh bone, and supplies branches to the vastus externus and biceps muscles, and to the bone. <5. Second per for ant. (A. perforans secunda magna.) Is larger than the former. It passes backward, and, is divided into branches to the flexors of the leg principally and to the adductor and vasti muscles. The perforating branches are subject to considerable varieties. Their branches freely communicate with each other; the upper with branches likewise of the gluteal and circumflex, and the lower with branches of the popliteal and femoral 5 so that * See Sir A. Cooper’s Account of the anastomoses of the arteries at the groin. (Medico-Chirurg. Transact, vol. iv. p. 425.J