introduction: XVII a guide to these in the neighbourhood. The form of the ends of bones, with their means of adaptation to each other, is, perhaps, the most essential part of their study. An accurate knowledge of these assists greatly in the diagnosis of the often obscure fractures about joints, and is indispensably requisite in that of dislocations. In these cases particular attention is requisite to'their figure, more especially when sur- rounded by the soft parts, to the prominent points which may be felt under such investments, to their capability of motion, to the strength of their articulation, as depending upon the form of the bones or cartilages, and the strength, number, -and disposition of the ligaments. These circumstances, together with a knowledge of the muscles, explain the man- ner in which displacements occur, and the means of their reduction. The muscles are considered as contributing to the form and contour of the body, giving the inequalities to its surface, by the prominences of their fleshy bellies and the depressions between them. Nor are they less important, as forming the beds for the reception of the vessels and nerves, and thus, while they point out the course of the vessels, assisting in the ready discovery of these : nor can we overlook their influence on the bones and joints, in preventing pain, deformity, and failure in the treatment of fractures and dislocations. It be- comes therefore a point of high practical importance that their situation, attachments, and relative position should be mastered. Nor does the anatomical examination of the organs situated within the large cavities of the body require a less particular attention, as they may have injury communicated to them, or may be the subject of disease, which must be often determined in a great measure from situation alone. Their appearance should be observed, and its shades of difference discriminated, that health and disease may be recognised under every form. But above all others, perhaps, whether for the purposes of the general practitioner, especially in midwifery, or the more b