270 .Sect. IV. portion to the raising of the pelvis, or to the incurvation of the lumbar vertebrae, the angle will become less and less, till at length the axis of both will coincide. Ihe position of the bulb of the corpus spongiosum, with respect to the adjacent parts, will now be better seen. Situ- ated between the diverging rami of the ossa pubis and below their symphysis. It is here fixed in its position by its con- nection with the triangular layer of condensed cellular, or ligamentous-like substance, called Lig amentum Trian- gulare Pubis, attached to the rami, and reaching up to the symphysis pubis. This also sends processes backwards to the prostate and to the bladder, which fix and connect these parts, as well as the membranous portion of the urethra, by the side of which they run. Immediately behind this, and behind the lower part of the symphysis pubis, is placed the Prostate Gland, which surrounds the neck of the bladder, is connected to the pubes and adjacent parts by a quantity of tough cellular substance, and lies upon the fore part of the rectum. It may be felt by passing the finger up the rectum, from an inch to an inch and a half above the verge of the anus ; and it is in this way that morbid alterations in its size are ascertained. The M. compressor prostatee, depicted by Albinus and Soemmering, is a slip of muscle which begins tendinous from the os pubis between the lower part of the symphysis, and the upper part of the foramen, passes back- wards in the form of a thin, narrow, fleshy slip, around the prostate, and is lost in, or joins with, the opposite compressor, between the prostate and the rectum. Mr. Wilson has described also two muscles at this part, which deserve especial notice. They arise by separate tendinous attachments from the inside of the symphysis pubis, they descend, fleshy; separate, to enclose the mem- branous part of the urethra ; spread themselves on its side through its whole extent, so as to form two broad triangular muscles; then fold themselves under it, and are united at a middle tendinous line, by which these muscles are both connected at one extremity, with the acceleratores urinse, sphincter ani, and transversi perinei. These muscles contract the membranous part of the urethra, and draw it against the symphysis. Between the bulb and the prostate is seen the Membranous Portion of the Urethra. This is scarcely an inch in length ; at its passage from the bulb it is not situated immediately under the symphysis, for there intervenes a strong transverse ligament. Here it passes