19G Serf. III. seen that the lung, though invested by it as an envelope, is not contained within it as in a bag. On opening the bags of the pleura, by a perpendicular in- cision, the lungs are seen loosely placed, connected only by their roots. In examining the extent of the pleura, it must be traced over the parts which it covers : this is called tracing The Re- flection of the Pleura. The description may be begun at the lateral parts of the sternum; the pleura passes thence out- wards upon the parietes of the chest, which it covers through- out, in connection with the ribs and intercostal muscles, as far as the vertebral column; inferiorly, it covers the con- vex surface of the diaphragm, superiorly, it terminates a little above the first rib in a blind extremity. It passes forwards from the vertebral column, approaches the opposite pleura, leaving a space before the spine, and is continued on to a small portion of the pericardium. Leaving this it passes over the posterior part of the pulmonary vessels on to the surface of the lung, extending over its summit, and its base, exactly adapting itself to the irregularities of its surface, and giving a distinct covering to each lobe. The pleura passes then from the lung over the anterior part of the pulmonary vessels, is continued upon the pericardium, which it covers, approaches the opposite pleura, and terminates at the posterior part of the sternum, Avhere the tracing commenced. The portion of the pleura which lines the ribs and inter- costal muscles is called the pleura costalis, and that part co- vering the lung is termed the pleura pulmonalis. These two portions are constantly in contact, whether in exspiration or inspiration, so exactly are the lungs adapted to the parietes of the chest; but after the bag of the pleura is opened, the lung collapsing leaves a considerable space betweenit andtheparietes. The cavity of the thorax may now be more completely laid open by dividing the cartilages of the ribs close to their union with the bones, and then raising gradually the sternum, with the cartilages attached to it, from below upwards. It will be then seen, that in the middle of the chest, the two pleura are contiguous to each other, and divide the chest into two un- equal cavities, of which the left is the smaller. The separa- tion passes between the sternum and the spine, and is called the mediastinum. Mediastinum. The mediastinum is divided into the an- terior and posterior mediastinum. a. Anterior Mediastinum. Is formed by the pleurae from the cartilages of the ribs, and from the pericar-