406 Sect. VI. It is surrounded by adipose membrane, but is firmly connected to the periosteum of the orbit above. It has several extremely small excretory ducts which pass from the gland and termi- nate upon the surface of the conjunctiva, near the outer angle of the eye and edge of the upper eye-lid. Puncta Lachrymalia. At the inner angle of the eye are the puncta lachrymalia ; two small orifices, one in the upper, the other in the under eyelid, at the extremity of the tarsus, marked by an eminence at that part and opposite to each other. They are very distinct in the living subject, but not so readily distinguished in the dead. The puncta are the orifices of two canals, which run in the direction of the edges of the eyelids, towards the side of the nose. They are some- what larger.than the puncta. The upper passes vertically upwards for the space of a line, then turns at right angles downwards. The' lower is first vertical, then nearly horizon- tal. They terminate together, but sometimes separately, at the upper and outer part of the lachrymal sack. They are best dissected after having passed bristles into their orifices. Lachrymal Sack and Ductus ad Nasum. The lachrymal sack is the cavity into which the tears are received ; it is of a somewhat oval form, terminating above in a blind extremity: and, tapering interiorly, is continued with the ductus ad nasum. It is situated in the lachrymal fossa, formed by the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone and the os unguis, which forms only a thin partition between it and the nose. It is immediately behind the tendon of the orbi- cularis muscle, above which about a fourth part is situated, and about the eighth of an inch behind the edge of the orbit. It is covered also externally by the skin, the orbicularis pal- pebrarum, and (towards the eye) by the caruncle and con- junctiva, which parts must be removed to see it; it is strengthened by an aponeurosis from the tendon. The parietes are formed by a white, dense, tendinous-like membrane, and by a lining of mucous membrane continued from the pituitory membrane of the nose. At its outer and upper part are the orifices of the puncta. The ductus ad nasum is continued from the sack. It is formed by a canal in the maxillary and spongy bones, and terminates below the inferior turbinated bone. Its direction is obliquely downwards and outwards, forming a slight bend anteriorly. When the sack has been opened, if a probe be in- troduced* and the stem of it rested against the superciliary ridge, that will give it the exact direction of the duct into the& nose, and this may be followed by chipping away the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. It is lined by mucous membrane, and its orifice has generally a fold of