166 Sect. Ill of dura mater through the fore part of the foramen lacerum, separated by a long process of bone from the internal jugular vein, and by dura mater from the nervus accessorius & nerv. glosso-pharyng. and in the canal it becomes rounded. 11. Lingual, Nerv. lingualis, sublingualis, hypo- glossus, S)C. Arises by four to eight filaments from the an- terior surface of the medulla oblongata, and from the groove between the corpus olivare and corpus pyramidale. It forms two or three fasciculi which pass separately through the dura mat-ei*into the foramen condyloideum anterius, and are united at its outlet into a single trunk. Morbid Appearances within the Cranium. Processes of bone from the cranium. Of the Membranes : Inflam- mation — Adhesion—Effusion — Suppuration —Ulceration — Gangrene — Excrescences — Hydrocephalus externus—Ossi- fication of dura mater—Thickening of tunica arachnoides— Ossification of pia mater. Of the Brain: Effusion of blood or serous fluid into its substance—Effusion of serous fluid into the ventricles—Hydrocephalus interims—Tumours in brain— Abscesses — Substance of brain very soft or very firm — Hydatids of plexus choroides. SPINAL MARROW. The Spinal Marrow is enveloped by the same membranes as the brain. Dura Mater. Forms a complete canal through- out the cavity of the vertebral column. It becomes gradually more capacious as it descends, and terminates at the under part of the sacrum in a cul de sac. The bag of the dura mater is smaller than the vertebral canal, especially laterally and posteriorly, and is at these parts attached to it by a loose cellular texture which contains, especially below, a considerable quan- tity of a reddish yellow fat-like substance; anteriorly it is closely connected with the vertebne. It furnishes sheaths for the nerves, each sheath being continued with its nerves through its foramen, and is then gradually lost. Its fibres are more regularly arranged, but more delicate and less dis- tinct than in the cranium. Tunica Arachnoides. Is disposed in the same way as in the cranium, and is loosely connected with the pia- matral covering. Pia Mater. Is thick, of a close and firm texture, which increases downwards. It is closely adapted to the spinal marrow. It is yellowish white. Its external smooth