Sect YI. 409 the orbitar process of the superior maxillary bone, near its juncture noth the os lachrymale3 and runs obliquely outwards. - Insertion. Into the sclerotica by a broad thin tendon between the abductor and the optic nerve. The tendons of these muscles are seen through the tunica conjunctiva, so as to give a brilliant appearance to that which, in common language, is called the white of the eye, and ana- tomically, in contradistinction to the transparent part, the opaque cornea. The Uses of the first five muscles are described by their names : of the latter, the superior oblique raises the globe upwards and inwards 3 and the inferior draws it downwards and inwards. ยง 2. OF THE STRUCTURE OF THE GLOBE, In order to examine the Eye properly, it must be removed from the orbit, and cleared of the muscles and fat. The Globe of the Eye is nearly spherical, except where broken by the projection of the transparent cornea. Its pro- minence is owing to a cushion of fat, which, together With cellular membrane, fills up the orbit. It is composed of tu- nics and humours, together with the vessels and nerves. The tunics are commonly reckoned as three : viz. 1. Sclerotica, 2. Choroides, 3. Retina. But to these are sometimes added the cornea transparens and iris. The humours are also three in number: viz. 1. Vitreous, 2. Crystalline, 3. Aqueous. Tunica Sclerotica. Is the strongest coat of the ball of the eye. It is dense and thick, not divisible into layers, but composed of a number of fibres, interlaced to- gether, and crossing each other in all directions. It is thick- est posteriorly 3 strengthened anteriorly by the tendons of the muscles, which give it a dense white appearance called cornea opaca ; and pierced by small holes for the transmission of nerves and vessels. Posteriorly, it has an opening, through which the optic nerve passes. This aperture is not in the direction of its axis, but situated towards the inner side. . On the fore part it is defective, and its place is supplied by the cornea transparens. This occupies about the anterior fifth of the globe 3 projects from the surface of the sclerotic 3 is circular; and its circumference intimately connected, by means of an oblique edge, with the sclerotic. It is hard, dense, and transparent, but thinner than the sclerotic, and may be separated into a number of lamellae.