Sect. II. 123 of the first joint of the four small toes, and are fixed to the bones of the first phalanx and tendons of the extensors. Use. To increase the flexion of the toes. The remaining muscle in the deep posterior tibial region is 4. M. Tibialis Posticus. Situation. Between the tibia and fibula, and covered partially below by the flex. long. dig. com. on the inner, and the flex. long. poll, on the outer side, which must be turned aside to expose the muscle completely. Origin. Fleshy from the upper half (nearly) of the pos- terior surface of the tibia, from the inner surface of the fibula, and from the greater part of the interosseous ligament. The fleshy fibres pass obliquely to a middle tendon, which is about two inches above the back of the ankle joint, passes between the tendon of the flex. long. dig. and the tibia, and is continued on the inner side of that tendon through a groove behind the inner malleolus; and afterwards proceeds in a similar groove on the upper part of the astragalus to the sole of the foot. At that part the tendon usually contains a sesamoid bone, and divides into two slips. Insertion. One of the tendinous slips is attached entirely to the os naviculare. The other divides into several slips, which are fixed to the os naviculare, astragalus, and the three ossa cuneiformia. The tendon, where it passes into the sole, is surrounded by a sheath of synovial membrane. Use. To extend the foot, and turn it inwards. cl. Fibijlar, containing the long and short peroneal mus- cles which are placed on the fore and lateral part of the fibula. 1. M. Pe rone us Long us. Situation. Extends along the outside of the leg. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy from the head, from the upper and smaller half of the anterior surface, and from the outer edge of the fibula; the fibres pass obliquely to a strong tendon, which is continued along the fibula, and de- scends behind the outer malleolus, where it runs through a ligamentous sheath. It is then turned forwards and passes through a groove in the os cuboides, and runs inwards across the sole, covered by the muscles at that part. Insertion. Into the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and the os cuneiforme internum.