Sect. III. 199 lung there is a hollow which receives the apex of the heart. The posterior and thicker margin is rounded, and received within the angles of the ribs. The base of the lungs is plane, and rests upon the diaphragm, to the form of which it corresponds, the surface facing downwards and forwards. The base is bounded by a thin, slightly indented edge. The summit, apex, is narrow, obtuse, and irregular, and is received into the cnl de sac formed by the pleura, just above the level of the first rib. Each lung is divided into lobes ; the right lung into three lobes, and the left into two. In observing the lungs from the side, a fissure will be seen to extend from a little below the apex obliquely forwards and downwards to the base. The fissure extends through the substance, and divides the lung into two lobes : the superior lobe is broad above, and termi- nates in a point below; whilst the inferior is pointed above, and occupies below nearly the whole of the base. The right lung is subdivided into three lobes, by a fissure which extends upon the superior lobe obliquely from above to below, and from within to without, varies in length and depth, and some- times is wanting. Occasionally the left lung likewise has three lobes. The volume of the lungs varies, according as they are in a state of dilata- tion or collapse; and in both states it depends on the quantity of air con- tained : for after respiration has been once performed, it is found that all the air cannot be again expelled. The same cause renders them specifically fighter than water. The colour of the lungs is pale, or of a greyish white or yellowish brown, with small dark spots; but more commonly they are found of a red, livid brown, or violet colour, or of these colours variously intermixed. These are accidental varieties, depending on the blood which may remain in the capillary vessels. In children they are more pink ; but in age become livid, and interspersed with black spots. ^ The lungs are connected on their internal surface by the pleura, the reflection of which begins at this part; by the air- tube ; and by the pulmonary vessels consisting of the artery which divides, and of the veins, two of which belong to each lung. The part where these are connected with the lung is called its root. Structure or the Lung. Is soft and lax, readily receiving and for some time retaining the impression of the finger. Some firmness is given to its texture by the pleura, which closely covers it, as its proper coat. Each lung is composed, l. of the branches of a membranous and cartilaginous tube for the transmission of air, called trachma and bronchia; 2- of two sets of blood-vessels, the one consisting of the ramifications of the pulmonary artery, the other of those of the pulmonary veins; and 3. of a reti- cular texture, which is always found devoid of fat. The reticular membrane, having been previously destroyed by maceration, the lung is divisible (at least in the foetus) into a number of lobules ,of vari- ous sizes and form, with angular surfaces, which contain cells, freely com- municating with each other, called the air cells. Their communication is rendered evident from their ready inflation by the bronchia.