326 ' Sect. V. by muscles, and more closely connected, and is more or less adjacent to the os femoris, so that it may be readily com- pressed. At the groin likewise, from its vicinity to the bone and from its superficial situation, it admits easily of compres- sion, so j^iat pressure applied about midway between the an- terior and superior spinous process of the ilium, and the spin- ous process of the os pubis, will, by obstructing the artery, command any haemorrhage from the vessels below. 14 The branches of the femoral are 1. external epigastric. A. epigastric externa. Given off close to Poupart’s ligament, which ascends on the fore part of the external oblique, under the skin, and is distributed to the superficial parts. 2. external pudic, A. pudicce cxternce. One or two branches which pass inwards under the skin, and are distri- buted to the skin of the parts of generation, and adjacent parts. There are, besides, usually several small branches to the skin, muscles, and absorbent glands. 3. deep artery of the thigh. A. profunda femoris. A branch of large size which comes off from the inner and back part of the femoral artery, usually from one to two inches below Poupart’s ligament, but occasionally lower, or sometimes higher and close to it, and in some rare cases above it. It is concealed at its origin by the trunk of the fe- moral artery. It takes its course downwards and backwards, inclined from the femoral artery, passes between the adduc- tor and vastus internus muscles, and terminates at the back part of the thigh. It gives off the following branches. a. Internal circumflex. (A. circumflexa interna.) Arises commonly higher than the external, and sometimes from the femoral before the deep artery is given off. It takes its course backwards, between the extremity of the psoas and the pectineus muscles, and bends round the neck of the os femoris. It furnishes branches to the pectinalis, psoas, ilia- cus, and triceps. It next sends off an ascending branch, which distributes branches to the obturator, and upper part of the triceps muscles, a branch of communication with the obturator artery, and a branch which enters the acetabulum, and supplies the joint. The continuation of the internal cir- cumflex distributes branches to the muscles in the ischiadic region, and to the upper back part of the thigh, and forms anastomoses with branches of the gluteal, ^chiatic, and ex- ternal circumflex arteries : these anastomosing branches are