Sect. V. 297 Where it passes up under the anterior clinoid process, it detaches the / 1. ophthalmic, or ocular artery. A. ophthalmica. Is a branch of considerable size, which is distributed by numerous branches to the globe of the eye, its appendages, and adja- cent parts. It passes with the optic nerve through the optic foramen, and generally below that nerve, and to its outer side ; then takes its course between the levator oeuli and nerve, on the inner part of the orbit. Its branches, which are subject to considerable varieties in origin, size, and num- ber, are the a. Lachrymal, which passes along the outer side of the orbit, and is distributed to the lachrymal gland, and parts adjacent. /3. Central of the retina, (A. eentralis retinae,) which passes into, and through the centre of the optic nerve, spreads upon the interior surface of the retina, and sends some branches through the vitreous humour. ry. Ciliary. (AT ciliares.) Several in number, which pass by the sides of the optic nerve, and penetrate the sclerotic coat. They divide into branches which are distin- guished as the short, (A.cil. breves vel posteriores,) distributed principally to the choroid coat; and as the long, (A. cil. longae vel anteriores,) distributed to the iris, and forming the zona major and minor. o. Muscular branches. (R. musculares.) Sup- ply the muscles, periosteum of orbit, eyelids, &c. e. Ethmoidal. (A. ethmoides.) Consisting of an anterior and posterior branch, which pass through the fora- mina orbitaria interna, anterius and posterius, and divide into branches to the membrane lining the nose, and sinuses con- nected with it. "C- Supra-orbitcir branch, (R. supra orbitaris vel. frontalis,) which passes along the upper part of the orbit, is continued through the foramen supra orbitare, and is distri- buted upon the muscles and skin of the forehead. rj. Internal angular, or nasal branch, (R. na- salis,) which takes its course to the inner angle of the eye, is distributed to the adjacent parts of the nose, eyelids and forehead, and anastomoses with branches of the facial artery. Arteries of the Cerebrum. After giving off the ophthalmic, the internal carotid furnishes the branches which supply the fore part of the cerebrum. It