304 Sect. V. branches to the intercostal muscles, anastomose with the aoi’tic intercostals. Others pass between the ribs to the ex- terior of the chest, distributed to the soft parts, and to the muscles of the abdomen. Phrenic, (R. musculo-phrenicus,) which di- vides into branches to the diaphragm and abdominal muscles. V- Epigastric, (R. epigastric!,) which assist in the supply of the parietes of the abdomen and anastomose with branches of the epigastric branch of the external iliac artery. 8. superior intercostal. A.intercostalis suprema. It arises more outwards, and from the back part of the sub- clavian; and is a branch of small, but variable, size. It passes down over the neck of the first rib, sends branches to the deep muscles of the neck, some of which pass through the vertebral foramina, and then divides into two or three branches, which are distributed to the two or three uppermost intercostal spaces. Axillary Artery. A. Axillaris, Which is the continuation of the subclavian, passes out- wards and downwards to the lower edge of the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, and there changes its name to that of the brachial artery. The axillary artery in its course through the axilla: Ante- riorly, is covered by the pectoralis major and minor: it is accompanied by the axillary vein, which, opposite to the head of the humerus, sinks rather below it; and at that part the nerves of the axillary plexus pass before it. Posteriorly, it is opposite to the space, between the serratus magnus and sub- scapularis muscles, filled by cellular membrane and fat; and is accompanied by the nerves forming the axillary plexus. To the inner side it is at first near to the second rib and serratus magnus ; it is then inclined outwards from the parietes of the chest, the intervening space being occupied by fat and cellular membrane, in which several absorbent glands are placed. To the outer side, in its passage between the clavicle and cora- coid process, are situated in part the nerves forming the axil- lary plexus; but these passing forwards like those from behind, it is then close to the.capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint. The artery may be conveniently laid bare by carrying an incision downwards and outwards to a point opposite the coracoid process of the scapula, through the integuments and clavicular slip of the pectoralis major, then by pursuing the dissection between the subclavius and the edge of the pecto- ralis minor, during which the cephalic vein and branches of