2G8 Sect. IV. Insertion. Tendinous into the ligamentous sheath of the corpora cavernosa, as far as their junction. Use. To compress the crus penis, and to give the penis its proper direction. 2. M. Accelerator Urinje. Situation. Covering the bulb of the penis. Origin. Fleshy from the sphincter ani, by means of inter- posed cellular substance, and from the membranous part of the urethra ; and tendinous from the crus and from the be- ginning of the corpus cavernosum. It forms a thin layer, the inferior fibres of which run more transversely than the superior. Insertion. Into its fellow by a tendinous line which runs along the middle of the bulb ; so that the two muscles toge- ther completely enclose the bulb. Use. To eject the semen or urine by spasmodic con- tractions. 3. M. Transversus Perinei. Situation. Between the tuberosity of the ischium and the accelerator urinae. Origin. From the tough membranous substance on the inside of. the tuberosity of the ischium; runs transversely inwards. Insertion. By means of condensed cellular substance into the accelerator urinae and sphincter ani. Use. To dilate the bulb and to draw the perineum and verge of the anus a little outwards and backwards. 4. M. Transversus Perinei Alter. Situation. Before the former. Origin. From the inside of the ischium immediately before the tuberosity. Insertion. Into that part of the accelerator urinae which covers the anterior part of the bulb. Use. To assist the former muscle. Continue the dissection backwards, bounding the space by the lower edges of the glutaei maximi muscles, where they pass from the os coccygis over the tuberosities of the ischia. In the middle will be seen the rectum, which, when the fat between it and the tuberosities of the ischia has been re- moved, appears to protrude like a funnel, and round it is the Anal Region, containing two muscles. 1. M. Sphincter Ani. Situation. Around the verge of the anus. Origin. From the extremity of the os coccygis; it runs forwards in two columns near the verge of the anus, so as to