Sect. V. 379 then directs its course along the root of the acromion, and divides into branches for the supply of the infra-spinatus and teres minor. 3. Articular. N. articularis, circumflexusbrachii. Arises from the trunk formed by the junction of the fourth and fifth cervical. It detaches twigs to the subscapularis and to the teres major and minor, and takes its course, between the two last-named muscles and the long head of the triceps, round the os humeri just below the head, to the inner surface of the deltoid, to which it is distributed. One branch passes through the muscle, and divides into twigs to the skin. 4. Inner Cutaneous. N. cutaneus interims. Gene- rally formed by several fibrillae of the first dorsal, and some- times in part from the seventh cervical. It takes its course down the inner side of the arm, immediately under the skin, in the course of the basilic vein, and near the radial nerve, and after detaching one or two inconsiderable twigs as it approaches the elbow, divides into two branches :—of which the smaller is directed backward, and runs down on the inner and back part of the fore arm, dividing and distributing twigs to the skin as far as the little finger :—the other and larger descends on the inner and fore part of the fore arm, dividing into several twigs which pass partly over and partly behind the subcutaneous veins, and supply the skin as far as the wrist and the palm of the hand. 5. Inner Small Cutaneous. N.cutaneus intemus minor. Is connected principally with the ulnar nerve, and is much smaller than the former. It soon divides into two branches, which distribute twigs to the triceps and to the skin of the back part of the arm, and of the elbow. 6. Outer Cutaneous. N. cutaneus externus, mus- culo-cutaneus perforans. Formed by the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical, and sometimes by a branch of the median. It passes downward and outward, perforates commonly the coraco-brachialis, or takes its course on the inside of that muscle, and furnishes some twigs to it. It descends then between the biceps and brachialis internes, giving off some branches to both, as far as the bend of the elbow, where it is situated on the outer side of the tendon of the biceps, between it and the cephalic vein. It continues its course on the outer side of the fore arm under the skin, to which it distributes numerous twigs, as far as the root of the thumb and back of the hand.