Sect. V. ’ 355 cipally between the serratus magnus, pectoralis minor, and the trunks of the axillary .vessels, to which they closely ad- here, but extend under the pectoralis major and clavicle. 2. Absorbent Vessels of the Upper Extremity. The superficial absorbents of the trunk are considered with these, as they all terminate in the axillary glands. 1. Superficial Absorbents. «. Of the back of the Trunk. The superfi- cial absorbents of the whole surface of the back, from the neck to the loins, terminate in the axillary glands. The greater number of these pass upon the trapezius muscle, and are continued through it into the axilla. ft. Of the Side and Fore Part of the Trunk. The upper pass over the pectpralis major, and bend over its under edge to the axilla. The lower pass over the serratus magnus and obliquus externus abdominis to the axillary glands. Some of these penetrate the parietes of the chest, and join with absorbents in its interior. 7: Of the Upper Extremity. They arise from the fore and back parts of the fingers and hand.—Those of the back part ascend upon the fore arm, forming a consider- able and freely communicating plexus : they separate then into two sets; one of which passes obliquely over the mus- cles on the radius, and the other over those on the ulna, to the fore and inner part of the fore arm, so that near the elbow-joint they all are situated anteriorly. Those of the anterior part of the hand unite, to form three or four trunks, which ascend on the fore arm, and unite near the elbow with the posterior set. Most of the absorbents pass through the glands at the elbow, and, on the inner side of the upper arm, unite into fewer trunks, and terminate in the axillary glands. A few of the absorbents accompany the cephalic vein; and, after passing between the deltoid and larger pectoral muscles, terminate also in the axillary glands. 2. Deep-seated Absorbents. These are much fewer in number. Two commonly accom- pany each principal artery in the fore arm, and these are united into trunks, which ascend with the brachial artery. They communicate freely with the superficial set, and terminate in the axillary glands. The. above-described absorbent vessels of the upper extremity and surface of the trunk, which pass through the axillary glands, unite to form four or five trunks, which sur- round the subclavian vein. Where this vessel enters the 2 a 2