Sect. I. 65 the same bone, and to the os lachrymale; and posteriorly, to the nasal process of the os palati. PLOUGHSHARE BONE. Vomer. Situation. Between the cavities of the nose. Description. The vomer is said to resemble a plough- share; it is divided into four edges, the superior or sphenoi- dal, the broadest, and hollowed to receive the processus azygos of the os splienoides ; the anterior or nasal, grooved to’receive the nasal plate of the os ethmoides, and the car- tilaginous septum of the nose; the inferior or cristal thin to join with the nasal crest of the ossa maxillaria superiora and palatine'; and the posterior or pharyngeal concave, and facing towards the pharynx. LOWER JAW. Os Maxillare Inferius. Situation. Below all the other bones of the head, and forming the lower boundary of the face. Description. The lower jaw is of a semi-elliptical form ; it is divided into rami horizontales and rami adscendentes. The horizontal branches form the lower part of the bone, and together produce a semi-ellipsis, which is usually less than the upper jaw, so as to be received within it; when however the lower jaw extends beyond the upper, the jaw is said to be underhung: the diameter of the semi-ellipsis being behind, its points form the angles, cmguli; extending forwards from which are the sides of the jaw : the front, instead of being elliptical, is . flattened from side to side, and rather produced below ; it is called the chin, sym])hysis; at the parts where the symphysis and rami join, are seen the mental holes, foramina mentalia; the sides and chin are about two fingers deep, and termi- nated above by the processus cilveolares, divided by lamella? alveolares, into cavitates alveolcires, of which there are six- teen ; the under edges of the rami are gibbous or thick, and rounded : within, the symphysis and rami horizontales form a similar curve; at the back of the symphysis is seen the mental spine, spina mentalis, which is sometimes bifid; and extending along the rami, is seen on either side, as far as the last dens molaris, a sharp line for the attachment of the M. mylo hyoideus ; behind this the line becomes more obtuse, and gives attachment to the M. buccinator. The ascending branches rise up from the angles, and produce obtuse angles with the horizontal branches ; they are broad from before,to behind, pass upwards, and terminate in a narrow neck, cervix; on each side above which are the condyloid processes, p. condyloides, convex and narrow from before to behind, broad F