Sect. 1 29 into each condyle, having between them a flat triangular1 space, strictly called the Ham, in which the popliteal artery, vein, and nerve lay; the lower end of the bone becomes much expanded to form the condyles, condyli, of which the inner is considerably the larger and longer; upon the con- dyles are four articular surfaces, the two upper on the fore part for the patella, of which that on the outer condyle is the larger, and separated from each other by a slight depression, and the two lower for the head of the tibia, extending very far backwards and upwards, and separated by a very deep pit, into which the cruceal ligaments artj inserted ; these articular surfaces are broadest below and narrowest behind and above; on the inside of the inner condyle, and above its articular surface, is a projection more or less distinct., to which the M. adductor magnus femoris is attached. The medullary artery enters about the middle of the back of the bone. Connection. By means of the head, with the acetabulum of the os innominatum above, and by the condyles, below, with the tibia, and before, with the patella. The muscles attached to this bone are nineteen : viz. to the trochanter major, M. gluteus medius & minimus; to the tro- chanter minor, M. psoas magnus & iliacus; to the linea quadrata, M. quadratus ; to the fossa trochanterica, M. ob- turator interims & externus, gemini & pyriformis ; to the linea aspera, M. gluteus maximus, pectineus, & triceps femoris, vasti & biceps flexor cruris; to the condyli, M. gastrocne- mius externus, plantaris & popliteus; to the fore part of the body, M. crureus : the M. sartdrius, gracilis, & tensor vaginae femoris, are upon the os femoris, but not attached to it. 2. THE LEG. Crus. The leg is composed of three bones, the patella, tibia, and fibula. THE KNEE CAP. Patella. Situation. On the front of the knee and protecting the joint: it may be considered to bear the same relation to the tibia, which the olechranon does to the ulna. Description. The patella is of a heart shape, with the base, basis, above, and the point, apex, below, the sides, margines, are between the base and point; it is convex late- rally and from above downwards, and rough in front in con- sequence of the attachment of the tendon of the M. rectus, and the ligament of the patella; it has two articular surfaces behind, slightly concave, and divided by a middle perpendi- cular projecting ridge, the outer of them being the larger.