Sect. IV. 231 passes obliquely under the edges of the internal oblique, and the transverse muscle. If the lower portion of the transverse muscle be raised from the ilium and Poupart’s ligament, it will be found lined pos- teriorly by an aponeurosis, which has been called by Sir A. Cooper, the Fascia Transversalis; and in tracing this fascia towards the pubes, an aperture, called the Internal Abdo- minal Ring, Annulus Ahdominalis Interims, will be disco- vered in it about midway, between the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium, and spinous process of the os pubis, forming the passage of the spermatic vessels and vas deferens. The dissection of these parts is connected with the anatomy of hernia; and in consequence of their import- ance, a more accurate and detailed account of their struc- ture will be found at page 232. 4. M. Rectus Abdominis. Situation. On the fore part of the abdomen, between the linea alba and linea semilunaris. It is contained in a sheath, which is formed, on the fore part, by the tendon of the exter- nal oblique, and by the anterior layer of the tendon of the in- ternal oblique ; and, on the back part, by the posterior layer of the tendon of the internal oblique and by the tendon of the transverse muscle. The sheath should not be examined till the muscle has been dissected. The fore part of the sheath is now to be divided down its middle from above to below, and is to be separated from the surface of the muscle. Origin. From the cartilages of the three lowest true ribs, and descends by the side of the linea alba. It has tendinous intersections, as has been already noticed, of which there are three usually complete, and a fourth that is continued only half across the muscle. They vary, however, in number, and seldom penetrate through the whole thickness of the muscle. They adhere firmly to the anterior part of the sheath. Insertion. By a short flattened tendon into the os pubis, near the symphysis. Use. To compress the fore part of the abdomen, and to bring the chest forwards; it also acts aska muscle of exspira- tion. In consequence of its tendinous intersections, the dif- ferent portions can act separately upon the viscera placed immediately behind. 5. M. Pyramidalis. Situation. On the lower part of the abdomen immediately above the os pubis. Is frequently wanting on one or both sides. ' Origin. Broad from the os pubis, near the symphysis. It