Sect; V. 329 sides y and such compression must act first on the tibial nerve. Its branches are 1. SMALL branches to the flexors of the leg. 2. superior outer articular. A. articularis superior externa. It bends outwards and forwards round the os femoris, above its outer condyle, between it and the biceps flexor cruris to the vastus externus. It furnishes branches to the biceps, the interior of the knee-joint, and to the vastus externus; and its branches anastomose with those of the op- posite upper articular, those of the lower articular on the same side, and with the descending branch of the external circumflex artery. 3. superior inner articular. A. articularis superior interna. It sometimes arises by a trunk in common with the former, and generally higher; but in some instances from the femoral artery, in which case it descends along the edge of the vastus internus. It bends inwards, and forwards round the os femoris, above the inner condyle, between it and the semi- membranosus and semi-tendinosus muscles, and the tendon of the adductor magnus, and ramifies to the adjacent muscles, and to the knee-joint, by branches which form communica- tions with the superior outer and inferior inner articular arteries, and with the anastomosing branch of the femoral artery. 4. middle articular. A. articularis media, azyga. Is frequently a branch of one of the superior articular. It passes downwards between the condyles, and is continued to the knee-joint, to which it is principally distributed, anastomosing with branches of the other articular arteries. 5. inferior outer articular. A. articularis inferior externa. Comes off nearly opposite to the joint, passes downwards and outwards and then forwards between the external lateral ligament and the capsule of the joint. It furnishes branches to the gastrocnemius externus and knee- joint, and ramifies at the under and fore part of the knee, forming communications with the upper outer, and inferior inner, articular arteries. 6. inferior inner articular. A. articularis inferior interna. Comes off near the former, and descends inward, and then forward immediately under the head of the tibia, covered by the inner head of the gastrocnemius. It fur- nishes branches to the joint and popliteus muscle, and is spread into branches at the under and fore part of the knee.