359 Sect. V. /3. Of the renal capsule. Unite partly with those of the kidney, and in part with those of the digestive organs at the upper part of the abdomen. 7. Of the ureters. Join with those of the urinary bladder and kidneys, and terminate in the iliac and lumbar glands. 8. Of the urinary bladder. Form a considerable plexus on its parietes; are continued to the internal iliac glands. e. Of the penis and clitoris. The deep-seated absorbents of the penis and clitoris, pass with the blood-vessels into the pelvis, and terminate in the pelvic glands. £•. Of the testicle. They are numerous and of large size; they form eight or ten trunks, which pass up in the spermatic cord, follow the course of the spermatic blood- vessels, and terminate in the lumbar glands. •>). Of the prostate gland and vesiculce seminales• They join with those of the bladder, 0. Of the vagina and uterus. Those of the vagina and lower part of the uterus terminate in the iliac glands, except some which arise from the orifice of the vagina, and accompany the round ligament through the abdominal ring. Those of the upper and larger part of the uterus are joined by those of the ovaria, accompany the spermatic vessels, and terminate in the lumbar glands. \ B. Absorbent Vessels of the Chylopoietic Vis- cera. They are distinguished into those of the intestines, stomach, omenta, liver, spleen, and pancreas. Those of the intestines[are frequently called lacteals, from the milk-like fluid which they convey during the digestive process, but do not differ in fact from the absorbents at other parts of the body. a. Of the intestines. Those of the small are much more numerous than those of the large intestines; and of the small those of the duodenum and jejunum are in greater num- ber than those of the ilium. The superficial arise from the peritonaeal and muscular coats ; they run lengthwise on the intestines, and freely anastomose. The deep-seated arise from the villous coat, and form the orifices which absorb the chyle. They pass transversely on the intestinal canal, which they surround, and anastomose freely with the superficial set. Both sets unite to form trunks, which run between the layers of the mesentery, with the blood-vessels, and pass through the mesenteric glands. In their course they join into fewer but larger trunks, and near the pancreas unite with the ab- sorbents of that gland, and of the spleen and liver, to form