92 Sect. II, § 8. TABLE EXHIBITING THE ACTIONS OF THE MUSCLES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. In studying the actions of muscles, it will be necessary to bear in mind that their points of attachment are reciprocally movable upon each other, or may become, alternately, fixed points. But for obvious reasons we can in this place attempt no more than point out the mode in which the points of in- sertion are made to approach those of the origin of muscles. From this explanation, however, it will be easy to supply the manner in which, on the other hand, the points of origin may be moved upon the points of insertion, when the latter are the fixed points. In the small space which, consistently with the plan and main purpose of this Manual, could be allotted to the actions of the muscles, it was necessary to confine our explanations to the mode in which these actions produce the direct move- ments. It will not, therefore, be possible to explain the com- bined action of muscles, by which the various intermediate motions are produced, although it will not be difficult in any instance to understand, that if the muscles acting in different directions combine, they will produce a motion intermediate between both; that if for instance the muscles which raise the arm, should act at the same time as the muscles which carry it forwards, the motion produced will be that of carry- ing it upwards and forwards. For the same reason it will be expedient to omit the suc- cessive action of muscles ; as those, for instance, by which the direct and intermediate movements of the humerus are made to succeed each other in such a manner, that the point of the elbow shall describe a circle. The muscles of the upper extremity perform the motions of the bones of the shoulder, of the os humeri, of the fore arm, of the radius, of the band, of the thumb, and fingers. The Motions of the Clavicle and Scapula together are upivards—dowmvards—-forwards, and outward —bac/auard and inward. The scapula has besides a motion of rotation. The muscles performing these movements may therefore be divided into—a. Elevators, h. Depressors, c. Motors forward, d. Motors backward, and e. Rotators of the Scapula. ' a. Elevators. 1. Trapezius. 2, Levator scapula*,