246 Sect. IV. sisting of longitudinal fibres, which begin at the cricoid car- tilage, are continued parallel to each other, and ultimately pass upon the stomach, where they become paler and diverge; and an internal one of circular fibres, fewer in number and connected by delicate cellular mem bran £ to the former. The membranous has the structure of a mucous membrane, and numerous follicles for the secretion of mucus. It is distin- guished by its paler appearance from the membranes of the pharynx and stomach, has numerous longitudinal plicae,arising from the contraction of the transverse fibres, but disappearing when it is distended; and is lined by cuticle, which may be seen to terminate in a fringed extremity at the cardiac orifice of the stomach. Stomach* The stomach has been compared in figure to the bag of the bag-pipe. Its situation, position, and anatomical division, have been already described. See page 239. It has three coats : 1. peritonaeal, 2. mus- cular, and 3. villous.. 1. The peritoncral is a continuation of the peritonaeum ; two layers from the porta of the liver, after forming the little omentum, separate, and cover the anterior and posterior surfaces of the stomach ; these, at the greater curvature reuniting, form the great omentum. 2. The mus- cular coat is the most considerable. It is composed chiefly of two orders of fibres, a longitudinal and a transverse. The longitudinal fibres take the course of the long diameter of the stomach, and Shem to be chiefly continued from the oeso- phagus ; they diverge at the cardiac orifice, and divide into different bundles, the most considerable passing along the less curvature, others descending upon the left extremity and taking the course of the greater curvature throughout its extent, whilst some, but fewer, pass upon the surfaces, inter- secting obliquely the circular fibres. The circular order is more considerable : they are few at the cardiac portion of the stomach, but are many and well marked at other parts, especially in the middle : they are arranged parallel to each other, and appear to consist of segments of circles, rather than complete rings. 3. The third coat, the villous, or mucous, is a continuation of the lining membrane of the oesophagus, but differs from it in the minute projections which cover its surface, and from their resemblance to the pile of velvet, have given its name to the coat. It is of a reddish yellow colour, but sometimes the red appearance is so distinct, or inclining to purple, that much caution is requisite, especially where there is a suspicion of poison, before we can decide with safety that it has been produced by inflammation. This coat