10 Sect. I. clavian artery passes; its head has only a single articular surface, by which it joins to the whole articular surface on the side of the body of the first dorsal vertebra ; and the tubercle, which is very large, is placed immediately upon the angle of the bone, so that some anatomists describe it as wanting the angle. The eleventh and twelfth ribs are shorter than all the others, except the first : their heads have only single articular surfaces to join with the whole articular cavities on the sides of the lowest dorsal vertebrae, and they have no angles : their ante- rior extremities, although tipped with cartilage, are not attached to the cartilages of the other ribs, but are floating amongst the muscles, from whence they have been called floating ribs ; and not having tubercles they are not connected with the transverse processes of the vertebrae. The muscles attached to the ribs are the pectorales majores & minores, subclavii, sterno thyroidei, scaleni antici, medii, & postici, latissimi dorsi, serrati majores antici, superiores & inferiores postici, sacro lumbales, accessorii ad sacro lumbalem, longissimi dorsi, levatores & depressores costa- rum, intercostales, sterno costalis, diaphragma, obliqui ex- terni & interni, transversales & recti abdominis, & quadrati lumborum. THE BREAST-BONE, Sternum. Situation. In the front of the chest and connected with the ribs and clavicles. It consists of two bones. Description. The first bone is of a triangular shape, the base of which is above, very thick, and forms the fore and upper boundary of the chest; the apex below and truncated, having an irregular articular surface for the second bone : it is irregularly convex before and concave behind : at. the top on each point is an articular surface, concave from side to side for the sternal extremities of the clavicles, and between them the top of the bone is rounded: on each side and below these, is a large whole articular surface for the cartilage of the first rib : the sides of the bone become contracted, and at the lower part is a half articular surface for the second rib. The second bone is long and narrow, flat before and be- hind : at the top it has an articular surface for the first bone, and below, a smaller one for the ensifonn cartilage, which has a half articular surface for the seventh rib, and in old peo- ple is converted Into bone : on either side it has four whole concave articular surfaces for the.third, fourth, fifth and sixth ribs, and two half ones for the second and seventh, that at the upper part being for the second, and that at the lower for the seventh, which is not very distinct from the whole one for the sixth rib.