Sect. V. 303 cervical vertebrie, anti to those of the hack of the neck; at the upper part of the neck it bends backwards, furnishing branches to the muscles under the occiput, and anastomoses with branches of the vertebral and occipital arteries. 5. superficial cervical. A. cervicalis superfcialis, transversa colli. Is commonly larger than the former, it passes nearly transversely outwards, bends backwards, and commonly divides into two branches near the superior costa of the scapula, one of which passes upwards and the other downwards. It supplies branches to muscles situated at the back part of the neck, shoulder, and chest; and communi- cates with branches of the occipital and vertebral. 6. deep cervical. A. cervicalis profunda. Arises gene- rally farther out than the last, and after the subclavian has passed between the scaleni muscles ; it then bends upward and outward, is in part concealed in its course by the nerves which form the axillary plexus, and divides into branches principally distributed to the deep-seated muscles at the back of the neck, often furnishing a branch which passes in the direction of the base of the scapula. It sends, likewise, small branches through the vertebral foramina, and others which communicate with branches of the vertebral and occi- pital arteries. The inferior branches are 7. internal mammary. A. mamrnaria interna. It comes off from the subclavian artery nearly opposite to the infe- rior thyroideal branch, then descends nearly straight within the chest behind the cartilages of the ribs, near the edge of the sternum between the intercostales interni and sterno- costalis ; nearly opposite to the sixth or seventh rib, it divides into two branches, the epigastric. It furnishes in its course various branches : u. Thymic, (R. thymici,) which are distributed to the thymus gland. ft- Pericardiac, (R. pericardiaci,) which are dis- tributed to the pericardium. 7. Mediastinal, (R. mediastini,) which are distri- buted to the mediastinum. c. Branch accompanying the phrenic nerve (R. comes nervi phrenici.) Distributed principally to the dia- phragm. g. Intercostal, (R. intercostales,) which pass out- wards in the spaces between the true ribs, to which com- monly they correspond in number, and after distributing