Sect. V. 309 It passes down in the course of the radius as far as the wrist. During its passage through the fore arm : posteriorly, it corre- sponds to the radius, but is separated from it above by fat, cellular membrane, and the supinator radii brevis, lower by the pronator teres ; it is then situated on jthe flexor pollicis longus, and below upon the pronator quadratus, and on the radius itself. On the inner side is placed the pronator teres, flexor sublimis, and flexor carpi radialis. On the outer side it has the supinator radii longus, and is accompanied in part of its course by the superficial branch of the radial nerve. Anteriorly, it is covered by the skin and aponeurosis of the fore arm, from which, however, it is separated, above, by fat and cellular membrane, and, below, by the projection of the flexor carpi radialis and supinator longus at the sides ; but where these muscles become tendinous the artery is im- mediately beneath the integuments, so that its pulsations can be readily felt. At the wrist it bends backwards, commonly between the trapezium and the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor primi internodii, pollicis, or some- times higher, to the space between the metacarpal bones of the thumb and fore finger. It is continued through the abductor indicis into the palm of the hand, where it terminates by forming the deep-seated palmer arch. The branches which the radial gives off are 1. recurrent radial. A. radialis recurrens. Comes off usually near the beginning of the radial, and is a branch of considerable size. It passes up on the inside of the supinator radii longus, then between it and the extensor carpi radialis longior, and near the olechranon inosculates with the commu- nicating radial branch of the deep humeral. It furnishes branches in its course to the supinatores, extensores radiales, brachialis interims, and to the elbow-joint. 2. muscular branches. It. musculares. The radial in its course gives oft numerous branches, mostly of small size, to the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, flexor sublimis, flexor pollicis longus, pronator quadratus, and to the wrist-joint. 3. superficial palmar. A superficialis voice. Is a branch of variable size, which comes oft' near the wrist and passes down superficially close to the tendon of the palmaris longus to the palm of the hand. When small, or sometimes even when of considerable size, it is entirely expended on the " muscles which form the ball of the thumb. When of large size it commonly joins with the ulnar in forming the super- ficial palmar arch; in which case, sometimes besides the