298 Sect. V. distributes a few branches to the infundibulum, pituitary gland, , °ptic nerve, and third ventricle : then sends a branch back- wards, which from forming a communication with the basil- ary artery is called the communicating, and afterwards ter- minates by dividing into the anterior and middle arteries of the cerebrum. 2. communicating. A. communicans. The size of this branch varies, but is generally considerable. It takes its course backwards, and terminates in a branch of the basilary, namely, in the posterior artery of the cerebrum, so as to assist in forming the circle of Willis. It distributes some branches to the base of the cerebrum. 3. anterior. A. anterior cerebri, A. corporis callosi. Passing forwards and inwards, it approaches the opposite artery of the same name, and after sending some small branches to the anterior lobe and to the olfactory and optic nerves, is joined to that artery, before the union of the optic nerves, by means of a short but large transverse branch, A. communi- cans anterior transversa. From the transverse branch branches are sent off to the third ventricle, septum lucidum, and fornix. The anterior artery is then continued upwards, and bends backwards over the corpus callosum upon the internal and flat surface of the hemisphere. It divides into branches, some of which are of small size, and distributed to the corpus callosum, whilst the larger and more numerous pass between tbe convolutions, others spread on the surface of the hemi- sphere, but are all directed towards the upper part. They ramify, divide minutely, and freely anastomose in the pia mater, covering the fore and inner part of the hemisphere, and send only minute, but numerous branches into the sub- stance of the brain. 4. middle. A. media cerebri, fossa; Sylvii. Is always con- siderably larger than the anterior. It passes outwards and a little forwards, and then takes its course through the fissura Sylvii upwards. It sends some twigs into the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, and then divides into three or four considerable branches, which pass up on the anterior and middle lobes to the upper surface of the hemisphere, spreading into numerous branches upon the pia mater, which send twigs into the brain, and freely communicate with branches of the anterior and posterior arteries of the cerebrum. 5. BRANCH TO THE CHOROID PLEXUS OF THE LATERAL VEN- TRICLE. Passes over the crus cerebri to the anterior opening