296 Sect. V. infra-orbitar foramen, and terminates by branches to tbe cheek, some of which communicate with branches of the facial artery. k. Descending palatine branch. (A. palatina descendens, palato-maxillaris.) It gives off usually a branch to the upper part of tbe pharynx, called superior pharyngeal. It then descends in the palatine canal, and passing out through the palato-maxillary foramen, advances between the bone and membrane of the roof of the mouth, distributing branches to both. Anteriorly it communicates with the opposite artery, and sends a branch upwards through the ductus incisivus to tbe nose, to anastomose with branches of the lateral nasal ; it also sends a branch through the palatine foramen to the tonsils and soft palate. X. Lateral nasal branch. (A. nasalis lateralis, posterior, spheno-palatina.) It takes its course through the spheno-palatine foramen, and divides commonly into two branches: one ramifying to the posterior ethmoid cells, and dividing into numerous branches to the septum of the nose; the other descending on the outer side of the nose, and sup- plying branches to the membrane covering the turbinated bones, and to the antrum maxillare. b. Internal Carotid. A. Carotis Interna. Ascends deep seated, and most commonly slightly curving in its course, upon tbe rectus capitis anticus major to tbe base of tbe cranium. It then turns forwards and upwards, and enters the carotid canal, and next adapts itself by several turns to the tortuous course of that canal, nearly filling it, but surrounded by a quantity of dense cellular membrane. On entering tbe cranium it passes upwards and forwards, by tbe side of the sella tursica, and is contained in the same fold of the dura mater as tbe cavernous sinus, but is protected from tbe blood which the sinus contains by the lining membrane of the sinus. Under the anterior clinoid process it bends up- wards and then backwards, and divides into branches. Thus this vessel is very tortuous in its course, and changes its direction at least five or six times. Exterior to the cavity of the cranium it seldom gives off any branches. Occasionally, however, it furnishes a branch to the pharynx, or to the fauces, and more rarely it gives off the occipital. At the side of the sella tursica it commonly distributes small branches to the dura mater, ear, cavernous sinus, pitui- tary gland, and adjacent nerves.