103 Sect. II. The Synovial Membrane extends from the articular surfaces of the os humeri; before from above the anterior depression, and behind from above the posterior depression,' to the articular surfaces of the radius and ulna. The portion attached to the radius descends as far as the neck, so that the head is loosely surrounded by the synovial capsule. On the ulna it is extended to the greater and less sigmoid cavities. The synovial capsule is looser before and behind than at the sides. In the posterior depression of the os humeri, and at other parts of the joint, a quantity of fatty matter is found. Practical Points. Fractures-:—Of the condyles of the os humeri—of the olechranon. Dislocations:—Of the radius and ulna forwards, or before the condyles of the os humeri—of the radius and ulna to the inner or outer side (partially)—of the radius and ulna back- wards—of the radius only—of the extremity of the os humeri between the radius and ulna. § 4. ARTICULATIONS OF THE RADIUS AND ULNA. The head of the radius is received into the less sigmoid cavity of the ulna above; and the extremity of the ulna is received in a depression of the radius below. The surfaces in contact are covered by cartilage, so as to admit of motion, and ligaments are found at these parts for the purpose of mo- derating such motion. There is besides a broad ligamentous expansion filling up the space between the two bones. There are four ligaments between the two bones, viz.:— 1. Coronary, or Annular Ligament. Liga- mentum radii annulare. It is extremely firm and strong, and is composed of transverse, circular fibres. It arises from the fore part of the small sigmoid depression of the ulna, and after surrounding the neck of the radius, is fixed to the op- posite extremity of that cavity. It is intermixed with fibres of the anterior and posterior, and of the external lateral ligaments above, but is terminated by an edge below. 2. Oblique Ligament. Ligamentum cubiti ohliquum, membrana transversa. Is attached above to the tubercle of the ulna. It extends obliquely downwards to the radius, and is fixed to the lower part of the tubercle of that bone. 1 3. Interosseous Ligament. Connects the radius and ulna through the greater part of their length, and