Sect. VI. 407 membrane. It is about an inch in length, and the eighth of an inch in diameter. Next proceed to dissect the more immediate CONTENTS OF THE ORBIT. These are the muscles, vessels, and nerves of the eye, with the eye itself and a quantity of adipose matter. In order to dissect these, saw out a triangular portion of the orbitar plate of the os frontis, with its apex extended to within a quarter of an inch of the optic foramen ; turn it forwards and upwards, but do not cut it away from the skin of the forehead. When this has been done a dense mem- brane is seen completely lining the orbit, but it is merely the periosteum, which is not very closely connected to the bone. Make a section of it similar to that through the bone and you will expose the levator palpebrae superioris which is narrow behind and broad before, where it is attached to the tarsus of the upper eyelid. Upon it is seen the supra orbitar artery and nerve running forwards to their distribution. Immedi- ately under the outer angular process of the os frontis is placed the lachrymal gland embedded in fat. Turn the levator palpebrse aside and observe beneath it the levator oculi. On the outer side of the orbit, the abductor oculi is seen passing forwards, and having the lachrymal nerve on its upper edge which runs to the gland. On the inside the superior oblique muscle is seen with its tendon passing through the little pulley, and below it the adductor oculi: between these two muscles the nasal nerve and artery pass forwards to their destination. Next cut away the outer angular process of the os frontis and the superior orbitar process of the malar bone. At the posterior part of the orbit will then be seen the origins of all the muscles, except the inferior oblique, surrounding the optic nerve in its passage through the foramen, and the dis- tribution of the common, inner, and outer oculo muscular nerves; the nasal branch of the opthalmic division of the fifth will also be seen forming on the outer side of the optic nerve, with a branch of the common oculo muscular, the lenticular ganglion, from which the ciliary nerves may be traced into the globe of the eye. The nasal branch will afterwards be seen passing between the optic nerve and the levator oculi to the inside of the orbit. At the under part the depressor oculi passes to its attachment. To see the inferior oblique muscle in its situation, make a horizontal incision through the skin of the lower eyelid outwards.