86 Sect. II. base of the radius, and under the dorsal ligament of the wrist, but separately from the tendons of the two muscles last mentioned. Insertion. Into the second bone of the thumb. Its ten- don runs in a synovial bursa or sheath. Use. To extend the second joint of the thumb. 4. M. Indicator. Origin. Fleshy immediately below the former muscle, from the middle of the back part of the ulna. Its tendon passes under the dorsal ligament, with those of the extensor digitorum communis. Insertion. Into the back part of the fore finger, in common with the tendon of the extensor digitorum communis. Use. To extend the fore finger. c. Radial, containing four muscles. 1. M. Supinator Radii Longus. Situation. On the outside of the fore arm, and extending half way up the outside of the upper arm, at which part it has the triceps behind, and the brachialis interims before it. Origin. Fleshy from the ridge on the os humeri, which extends above the outer condyle, and begins in a sharp point as high as the middle of the bone. It covers the extensor carpi radialis longior, and descends on the outer side of the arm. Above the middle of the fore arm it terminates in a slender flat tendon. Insertion. Into the outer side of the base of the radius, where it is crossed by the tendons of the extensor ossis met., & primi internodii pollicis. Use. To render the hand supine, and assist in flexing the fore arm. 2. M. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior. Situation. Immediately under the former muscle, its rela- tive position before and behind the same. Origin. Broad and fleshy from the ridge above the outer condyle of the os humeri, below the supinator longus, as far as the outer condyle. It forms a thick fleshy belly, which passes over the outer condyle, and descends along the radius. It sends off a long flat tendon, which takes at first the same direction, then between the tendons of the three extensors of the thumb and the radius, and is continued in an appropriate groove, over the back of the base of that bone under the annular ligament. Insertion. Into the back part of the base of the metacar- pal bone, supporting the fore finger.