Sect. IV. 239 5 2 SITUxVTION OF THE CHYLOPOIETIC VISCERA. On opening the abdomen, as above directed, four parts come into view : the stomach, the liver, a portion of the gall- bladder, and the omentum : and if the omentum be short, the small intestines are in part seen. Liver. Occupies nearly the whole of the right hypochondrium •, and. crossing the scrobiculus cordis extends a little into the left hypochondrium. Its anterior edge is situated immediately behind the edge of the cartilages of the ribs. Stomach. Is situated at the upper and left part of the abdomen. It is a muscular bag, which is capacious and rounded at one extremity, and gradually decreases to the opposite. It is the continuation of the alimentary canal be- tween the extremity of the oesophagus and the beginning of the intestines. It occupies nearly the whole of the left hypo- chondrium, and extends into the epigastrium. It is divided externally into two surfaces, an anterior and a posterior; two curvatures, a greater and a less; and two extremities, a right and left, or cardiac and pyloric. It has likewise two openings formed by the cardia and pylorus, and called the cardiac and pyloric orifices. The greater curvature is convex, forms the inferior edge, and reaches from one ex- tremity to the other; and a process of the peritonaeum is attached to it. The lesser curvature is concave, and is com- prehended between the pyloric and cardiac orifices ; the peri- tonaeum is attached to it in the same way as to the greater. The left extremity comprehends all that portion of the sto- mach which is to the left of the oesophagus : it forms a large cul-de-sac below the cardiac orifice. The cardiac opening forms the communication with the oesophagus; and is situated higher and more posteriorly than the pyloric orifice. The situation of the pyloric orifice, which forms the communica- tion with the intestines, is marked by a circular depression and a sensible thickening. It is lower, and more forwards than the cardiac orifice. The direction of the stomach is transverse, but with such a degree of obliquity that the ante- rior surface is higher than the posterior; the left extremity higher and more posterior than the right; and the lesser curvature posterior to, at the same time that it is higher than, the greater. Course of the Intestines. Under the name of Intestinal Canal, or Intestines, is designated the muscular and