Sect. II. 102 § 3. OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. The bones yvhich enter into the composition of this joint, are the os humeri, the radius, and the ulna; and the parts of these bones connected with the joint are:—Of the os humeri, the two condyles, the double articular surface, and the anterior and posterior depressions: of the ulna, the olechranon, the coronoid process, and the greater sigmoid cavity : of the radius, the head. These articular surfaces are covered with cartilage. The external form of the joint is determined in a great measure by the muscles which surround it, viz. the flexors of the fore arm anteriorly; the flexors of the hand and fingers, and the pronator below and before the inner condyle ; and the extensors of the hand and fingers, and supinators about the outer condyle. These muscles conceal much of the ar- ticulation, and thereby often render the detection of the kind of injury, which may have occurred at this joint, difficult. The parts which may be felt are:—the olechranon, which is sub-cutaneous, and the inner condyle, and, less distinctly, the outer condyle between the extensors of the hand and fingers. The coronoid process is distinguished with difficulty in the depression at the upper part of the fore arm, between the flexors and extensors. Four ligaments connect the bones of the upper end of the fore arm, viz.:— 1. Brachio Cubital, or Internal Lateral Liga- ment. JLigamentum cubiti laterale internum. Is fixed above to the fore part of the inner condyle of the os humeri, then de- scends spreading upon the inner side of the synovial capsule, and is attached below to the inner side of the coronoid process of the ulna. 2. Brachio Radial, or External Lateral Ligament. Ligamentum cubiti laterale externum. Re- sembles the former, and is stretched between the fore part of the outer condyle of the os humeri above, and the coronary ligament which surrounds the neck of the radius below. 3 & 4. Anterior and Posterior Ligaments. JJo-ament a cubiti anterius et posterius. Are broader, but thinner than the lateral ligaments, and consist of fibies which are spread irregularly upon the fore and back parts of its synovial capsule. By some, these are considered a single ligament, and called the Capsular.