Sect. I. 19 tus magnus ; to the notch in the superior costa, M. omo-hyoi- deus ; to the fossae, M. supra spinatus, infra spinatus & sub- scapularis ; to the inferior costa, M. teres minor & triceps extensor cubjti (its long head ;) to the inferior angle, M. teres major; and to the coracoid process, M. coraco-brachialis pectoralis minor & biceps flexor cubiti (its short head 5) the latter also from the upper edge of the glenoid cavity (its long head.) 2. THE UPPER ARM, Brachium, Consisting of a single bone. THE BONE OF THE ARM. Os Humeri. Situation. On the side of the chest, forming the upper arm; attached to the scapula above, and to the radius and ulna below. Description. The os humeri, or upper arm, is divided into the head, caput, two tubercles, tubercula, body, corpus, two condyles, condyli, three articular surfaces, and two pits ; the head, which is hemispherical, is placed at the upper and inner part of the bone, facing upwards, inwards, and rather backwards, it is smooth to articulate with the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and around its edge are the marks produced by the attachment of the capsular ligament; on the outer and fore part are seen the two tubercles, separated by a groove, sulcus bicipitalis, for the tendon of the long head of the M. biceps, the anterior or lesser tubercle, tuberculurn minus, giving insertion to the M. subscapularis, the external or greater tubercle, tuberculum majus, giving insertion to the M. supi-aspinatus, infraspinatus and tei-es minor3 imme- diately below the head and tubercles the bone is contracted, and forms the neck, cervix 3 the body appears as if the upper part were twisted outwards and the lower inwards ; the hole for the medullary artery, foramen medullare, is about one- third of the bone downwards ; extending from the fore part of the greater tubercle downwards is the outer edge of the bici- pital groove, to which the M. pectoralis major is attached, and from the lesser tubercle the inner edge of the same groove, to which’the M. latissimus dorsi and teres major are attached ; one third down on the outside is a rough surface to which the M. deltoides and brachialis interims are attached ; at the same distance from the head, and to the inner side of the bicipital groove another rough surface for the attachment of the M. coraco brachialis & brachialis externus, (one of the heads of the M. triceps;) from the middle of the bone on the outside extending downwards to the outer condyle, is a line