Sect. V. 331 off laterally to supply the muscles and skin at the fore part of the leg. 3. malleolar. A. mctllcolaris externa et interna. Two small branches given off near the under end of the tibia, but variable as to size and origin, distributed to the parts about the inner and outer ankle. A 4. tarsal. A. tarsea. Arises from the outer side of the artery near the ankle-joint: sometimes of considerable size. It passes obliquely outwards, furnishes branches to the tarsus, to the outer side of the ankle-joint, and to the muscles and skin on the upper and outer part of the foot; with some, whi^h pass along the outer side of the foot to the little toe: and it forms communications with branches of the fibular, malleolar, and plantar arteries. 5. metatarsal. A. metatarsea. Arises from the outer side of the artery, but varies somewhat as to origin. It is directed obliquely outwards under the extensor brevis digi- torum, and forms several communications on the outer side of the foot with the tarsal and other branches of the foot. In its course it sends off, a. Interosseal branches. (A. interossese dorsales.) Generally four in number, which pass forwards in all the interspaces of the metatarsal bones, except the first; giving off branches to the interossei muscles, and then continued each by two branches upon the lesser toes. (A digitales dorsales.) 6. branches which are distributed to the upper and inner part of the foot. 7- dorsal of the great toe. A. dorsalispollids. One of the two into which the artery divides in the space between the metatarsal bones of the first and second toes. It passes forwards to the great toe, and sends a branch to the second. 8. deep anastomotic branch. H. anastomoticus pro- fundus. The other division passes between the first and second metatarsal bone to the sole of the foot, and joins with the plantar arch. After the origin of the anterior tibial, the Posterior Tibial descends, covered by the gastrocncmii, for about an inch, and divides into two branches, one of which retains the frame of the common trunk and the other called the peroneal artery.