Sect. II. 73 scapula; turn the skin off by continuing to dissect in the course of the fibres, which pass downwards from above, and upwards from below to the scapula. Origin. From the protuberance and arched ridge of the os occipitis: from the ligamentum nuchae, by which it is connected to the opposite muscle : from the spinous processes of the two undermost cervical vertebras, and from all those of the back, except sometimes the two or three lowest, by short tendinous fibres, which connect it with the opposite muscle of the same name. Its fibres pass obliquely in different directions towards the scapula. Insertion. Fleshy into the upper and outer part of the clavicle •, tendinous and fleshy into the acromion and spine of the scapula. Use. The upper fibres of the muscles raise the scapula and clavicle ; the middle draw it backwards, and the inferior pull it downwards ; when the whole muscle acts it raises the point of the shoulder. 2. M. Latissimus Dorsi. Situation. It covers the lower part of the back and the whole of the lumbar region ; is of a triangular figure; and to be exposed by making an incision from the loins upwards and outwards, along the posterior margin of the arm-pit. Origin. By a broad thin tendon from the spinous pro- cesses of the seven inferior vertebrae of the back, sometimes from not more than four; at which part it is covered by the lower portion of the M. trapezius ; from the spinous processes of all the vertebrae of the loins ; from the spinous and oblique processes of the sacrum; from the outer labium of the pos- terior part of the spine of the ilium, and by tendinous and fleshy slips from the three or four inferior ribs. The superior fibres pass nearly transversely, the inferior run with different degrees of obliquity towards the axilla. Near the inferior angle of the scapula, the fibres collecting, have a folded appear- ance, and frequently receive an additional slip from that part; it is continued along the back of the arm-pit, forming its posterior margin, and passes before the long head of the M. triceps extensor cubiti, to its Insertion. By a strong flat tendon into the inner edge of the bicipital groove. Use. To pull the arm backwards and downwards, and rotate it inwards. l d. Dorso-cervical, containing three muscles, which are exposed atonce, by dissecting off the M. trapezius transversely.