8 Sect. I. described a curve to the left side to give room for the aorta. M. Beclard, however, has shown, that this circumstance merely depends upon the use of the right arm ; for in persons who were left-handed, he found the curvature in the opposite direction. In looking at the Spine posteriorly, the spinous processes are seen projecting in the middle ; those of the cervical and lumbar vertebrae horizontally backwards, and those of the dorsal hooked downwards ; on each side of these is seen a groove, formed by the junction of the arches of all the vertebrae, and bounded on the outside by the transverse pro- cesses, in which lie nearly all the muscles contained in the vertebral region. These being prominent in the recent state, leave a depression between them, in which the points of the spinous processes are felt extending from the head to the sacrum. A lateral view of the Spinal Column presents anteriorly, two convexities and a middle concavity, the superior convexity formed by the lower cervical and upper dorsal vertebrae, and the inferior by the lumbar; whilst the middle concavity is pro- duced by the retrocession of the bodies of the middle dorsal vertebrae. Behind the bodies of the vertebrae, and between them and the roots of the articular processes, are seen the holes formed by the junction of the notches, through which the nerves pass from the spinal canal. And the different direc- tions of the spinous processes may also be well seen in this view. The spinal canal, canalis vertebrcilis, is formed by the junc- tion of the arches of all the vertebrae, it is situated behind their bodies, and bounded by the roots of all the processes late- rally and posteriorly : it forms a complete bony case for the spinal marrow, protecting it in its passage from the cranium to its termination in the sacrum : it is largest in the cervical and lumbar vertebrae, and smallest in the dorsal. The muscles attached to the spine are, on the bach part M. trapezii, latissimi dorsi, rhomboidei majores & minores, levatores scapulae, serrati postici superiores, & inferiores, splenii, com- plexi, sacro lumbales, cervicales descendentes, trachelo mas- toidei, longissimi dorsi, transversales colli, spinales & semi- spinales dorsi, semispinales colli, recti capitis postici majores & minores, obliqui capitis superiores & inferiores, multifidi spinae, interspinales, intertransversales, & levatores costarum; on the fore part M. longi colli, recti capitis interni majores & minores, recti capitis laterales, scaleni antici, medii & postici, diaphragma, quadratilumborum,psoae magni & parvi, obliqui interni & transversales abdominis.