Sect. III. 154 Thalami NervorCtm Opticorum : two bodies of a white colour from the medullary structure of their exte- rior ; of a rounded figure, and larger behind than before; anteriorly they arc lengthened, become narrower, and con- verge. The T/enIjE Semicirculares are seen, one on each side in the groove between the corpus striatum and thalamus, forming a narrow medullary band. The Lateral Ventricles, Magni, tricornes. Are situated on each side of the corpus callosum, fornix and septum; their figure is irregular, but lengthened from behind to before. The centrum ovale is said to form their roof; but it is rather formed by the corpus callosum. A middle part or body, and three cornua or horns are distinguished in each. The middle parti already described, passes from behind to before, is bounded on the inner side by the septum and corpus callo- sum, on the outer by the corpus striatum : its floor is formed by the fornix. Of the Cornua the anterior is the smallest; it is to be displayed by extending the incision which has already opened the ventricle, forwards and a little outwards, when its course will be seen forwards, outwards and downwards; it lies be- tween the anterior boundary of the cavity, and the fore part of the corpus striatum, the contents of this cornu are said to be the bulbous extremity of the corpus striatum, and the foramen Munroianum. The posterior is continued from the hinder extremity of the middle part; it is also called fovea cli- gitata ; it is about an inch in length, but in this it varies. It is turned backwards with a slight bend only inwards, gradually narrowing and ending in a blunt extremity; and in this direction the incision to expose it should be made. Its inner wall forms a considerable projection, called eminentia digitalisy calcar, unguis, vel pes hippocampi minor, which is very rarely found wanting; but varies considerably in size and form; it is medullary without, and cineritious within. The inferior or descending cornu, is the largest: it passes downwards, then forwards and inwards, forming a consider- able bend, of which the concavity is inwards, the convexity outwards along the crus cerebri, and occupies the under, inner, and fore part of the middle lobe; it terminates at about half an inch distance from its extremity. The incision to display it must follow its course. Within the descending cornu are seen the plexus choroides, the hippocampus major, the eminentia collateralis, the taenia hippocampi, the pes hippocampi, and the fascia dent at a.