112 Sect. II. Insertion. Fleshy into the linea quadrata, which is ex- tended between the roots of the large and small trochanter. Under its upper edge is situated a portion of the obturator externus. Use. To rotate the thigh outwards. Between the muscle and the less trochanter is placed a bursa. § 2. ON THE THIGH. Fascia of the Lower Extremity. The greater number of the muscles of the lower extremity are covered by a tendinous expansion or aponeurosis. On the thigh it is called the Fascia Lata, and on the leg the Aponeurosis Cruralis. There is also a tendinous expansion on the sole of the foot, called the Aponeurosis Plantaris. The fascia lata begins from the fore part of the gluteus maximus, from the fore part of the outer labium of the crista of the ilium, and from Poupart’s ligament; from these parts it descends over the muscles of the thigh as far as the knee, giving them a general covering. It is thickest on the outside, and thinnest on the inside of the thigh, being in that situa- tion scarcely distinguishable from cellular membrane. With- in the fascia several processes are sent towards the thigh bone, to be attached to the linea aspera in such-way as to form bags \ one of these includes the muscles on the fore part of the thigh, consisting of the extensors of the leg; another on the inside, surrounds the adductors of the thigh and leg; and a third behind encloses the flexors of the leg. The apoJieurosis of the leg is continuous with that of the thigh, and then passes down over the muscles of the leg as far as the foot. It is fixed above to the heads of the tibia and fibula, and in its descent to the spine of the tibia. It is most considerable in thickness on the fore and outer part of the leg. Below, the fascia forms at the fore part of the ankle joint the Ligamentum tranversum tarsi seuLigamentum cruciatum, where it is strongest and thickest. This liga- ment is formed of two decussating bands, one of which passes from the outer malleolus downwards and inwards as far as the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and the other passes from the inner malleolus in the opposite direction to be fixed to the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Below, both are continuous with the thin tendinous expansion winch covers the dorsum of the foot. The tendinous covering of the lower extremity need not be displayed at once; but its different parts may be examined during the prosecution of the dissection of the muscles,