312 Sect. V. a plexus, from which branches pass to the back part of the hand and fingers. 3. muscular. II. musculares. The ulnar, like the radial artery, furnishes numerous branches in its course along the fore arm to the adjacent muscles, the flexor carpi ulnaris, and flexors of the fingers. 4. dorsal. A. dorsalis ulnaris. Comes off near the extremity of the ulna, passes backward under the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and after furnishing branches to the adjacent parts, joins with the branches which form the plexus at the back of the wrist. 5. deep ulnar. A. ulnaris profunda. Passes deep into the palm round the flexor of the little finger, is continued outwards, and inosculates with the radial forming the deep palmar arch, situated near the bases of the metacarpal bones. It furnishes interosseal branches to the interossei muscles, which anastomose at the roots of the fingers with the digital branches of the superficial arch, and other branches which pass between the metacarpal bones to the back of the hand. The ulnar artery then passes outward over the tendons of the flexor muscles, and forms the superficial palmar arch, (arcus superficialis volae.) This is placed with its convex side downwards, and anastomoses frequently with the super- ficial palmar branch of the radial on the outer side of the hand or with the large artery of the thumb. It furnishes branches to the fingers, called G. digital. A. digitalcs. Which consist of a. Branch which passes along the inner side of the little finger. ft. Three considerable branches which arise in succession, and pass to the interstices between the fingers, where each divides into two branches, one of which passes along the outer or radial side of one finger, and the other passes along the inner or ulnar side of the finger next to it; so that the first supplies the little and ring fingers, the second the ring and middle fingers, and the third the middle and fore fingers. There are several varieties in their size and origin, but not usually in the mode of distribution above indicated. After giving off in their course small branches to the fingers, they divide and form an intricate plexus at the tip of each finger. The superficial arch sometimes supplies the branches to the thumb and fore finger usually given off from the radial artery.