240 Sect. IV. membranous tube, beginning at the pylorus and terminating at the anus. It forms numerous turns and circumvolutions in the abdomen. Its length in the adult is in general six or seven times the length of the whole body. The intestinal canal is smaller at the upper part than at the lower, and in consequence has been divided into small and large intes- tines, each subdivided into three portions : the small into,— I. Duodenum,—2. Jejunum, and 3. Ilium : the large into,— 1. Ccecum,—2. Colon, and 3. Rectum. On turning up the omentum, the convolutions of the small intestines are seen, occupying a large portion of the abdomen; whilst a considerable part of the large will be observed to pass around them. Small Intestines. Duodenum. So named from being about the length of twelve fingers’ breadth; extends from the pylorus to the transverse mesocolon, forming a curve, of which the convexity is to the right, the concavity to the left; takes its course from the pylorus horizontally backwards, and to the right as far as the neck of the gall-bladder; then turns down- wards in a curved direction to the left, surrounding the head of the pancreas, as far as the second lumbar vertebra; and lastly is continued transversely to the left, passing before the spine, and behind the root of the mesentery and mesocolon, by which it is fixed. Jejunum and Ilium. The rest of the intestinal canal, belonging to the division of the small intestines, com- mences at the termination of the duodenum, at the root of the mesentery and mesocolon, and is extended to the large intes- tines. It forms numerous and closely contiguous circumvo- lutions, encircled by the large intestines. The direction, taken from the origin of this portion of the intestinal canal to the termination, together with its folds of peritonseum, is obliquely from above to below, and from the left to the right. The principal circumvolutions have their convexity anteriorly towards the parietes, their concavity to the spine. They are distinguished by anatomists into jeju- num (so called from being commonly found empty,) and ilium (named from its turns:) their extent is determined by mea- surement, two-fifths being assigned to the jejunum, and three- fifths to the ilium. The division, however, does not seem to have any natural foundation nor practical utility. The ilium terminates in the large intestines in the right iliac region, passing rather transversely, whilst the colon and ccecum are placed nearly perpendicularly.