Sect. V. 381 between the radius and ulna. In the fore arm it takes its course first behind, or through, the pronator teres, and con- tinues its course between the superficial and deep flexors of the finders. At the lower part of the fore arm it commonly divides^ the branches being continued behind the annular ligament of the wrist, between the tendons of the flexors, to the palm of the hand, and here subdivide into branches to the thumb and fingers. The median in its course through the upper arm, furnishes only some inconsiderable twigs to the coats of the vessels. As it approaches the elbow it detaches 1. Branches to the pronator teres, palmaris longus, flexor carpi radialis, and flexor sublimis. 2. Interosseous, (N. interosseus,) given off at the bend of the joint, which after giving off branches to the flexor profundus digit, and flexor longus poll, descends upon the interosseous ligament, with the corresponding vessels, turns over the edge of the pronator quadratus, and terminates in that muscle. 3. Palmar, a cutaneous branch given off near the wrist, and supplying the adjacent skin, and that of the back of the thumb. The branches into which it divides in the palm of the hand are three or four in number, viz.— 4. Branch, which divides into two to the thumb, and one to the fore finger; of which the former pass at the sides of the thumb to its extremity, and the latter takes its course along the outer side of the fore finger. 5. Digital Branch, which passes to the interstice between the roots of the fore and middle finger*, and here divides into two, one of which passes along the inner side of the fore finger, and the other along the outer side of the mid- dle finger, severally to the tip of each. 6. Digital Branch, which passes to the interstice between the roots of the middle and ring finger, where it divides like the former into two branches which are continued, the one along the inner side of the middle, and the other along the outer side of the ring finger, to their tips. These and the preceding digital branches furnish twigs to the skin of the fingers, but are principally distributed to the skin of the tips of the fingers. 9. Ulnar. (N. ulnaris, cubitalis.) Somewhat smaller than the former. Is formed from the three undermost nerves of the plexus. As it descends it isjnclincd backward on the triceps muscle with which it is connected. Near the elbow