Sect. III. 387 vary glands. It is placed as its name implies, lying horizon- tally upon the inferior surface of the tongue. It is parallel to its fellow, and separated from it by the genio-glossi. On the outer side it corresponds to the membrane of the mouth, above to the tongue, and below to the mylo-hyoideus. Its structure is the same as that of the other salivary glands; but that its excretory apparatus generally consists of a number of small ducts, ivhich, after a short passage, open by the sides of the frsenum of the tongue. Sometimes there is one duct considerably larger than the rest, and its coats thin and transparent. 4. M. Geivio-hyoideus. Situation. Under the anterior edge of the mylo-hyoideus, where it joins with its fellow : divide this junction perpendi- cularly, and see the Origin. Tendinous, from a rough protuberance on the inside of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis. Insertion. Into the base of the os hyoides. Use. To pull the lower jaw down, or to raise the os hyoides, as the last muscle. c. Inferior Hyoideal Region, containing five muscles,^ which are principally between the os hyoides and trunk. 1. M. Omo-hyoideus. Situation. On the side of the larynx and crossing behind the sterno-mastoideus to the scapula. Origin. Thin and fleshy from the superior costa of the scapula, near the notch, and from the ligament which runs across it. It passes obliquely upwards and forwards, becomes tendinous behind the sterno-mastoid muscle, and again grows fleshy. & Insertion. Into the base of the os hyoides, at the side of the sterno-hyoideus. Use. To depress the os hyoides and bring it to one side. 2. M. Sterno-hyoideus. Situation. In front of the larynx and trachaea. Origin. Thin and fleshy from the upper bone of the sternum internally, from the cartilaginous extremity of the clavicle, and from the clavicle, near the sterno-clavicular articulation. Insertion. Into the base of the os hyoides. Use. To pull the os hyoides down. 3. M. Sterno-thyroideus. Situation. On the side of the trachaea, and partially covered by the last muscle, which must be removed. * *