422 Sect. VI. These parts arc formed by:—a doubling of the mucous membrane, being a continuation anteriorly of the membrane lining the palate ; and posteriorly, of the pituitary membrane. The first is the paler, the latter having a considerable degree of redness. Beneath the first are a number of small glands of a yellowish colour, the excretories of which arc not distinct. The uvula is also surrounded by these glandular bodies. Beneath the mucous membrane are found muscles; in the middle the azygos uvulae; in the velum, the expansions of the circumflexus and levator palati; in the anterior pillar the constrictor isthmi faucium; and in the posterior the palato- pharyngeus. The parts are strengthened by their tendinous expansions. The opening to the pharynx is nearly quadrilateral, bounded above by the arch of the palate, or by the velum, when it is let down; at the sides by the pillars and tonsils; and at the bottom by the base of the tongue. The size of the passage cannot be much enlarged; for when the velum is elevated, the tongue is pressed backward. Tonsils. Are glandular bodies of a reddish colour, situ- ated in the space between the pillars of the fauces, by the sides of the base of the tongue. They are longest in their vertical diameter, and hence they have been called the Amyg- dala, or almonds; but they vary in their figure. They are made up of several lobes which are more or less connected with each other, and are of a soft and pulpy texture. In regarding them from the mouth their surface seems studded with openings of some size, which lead into small cavities, disposed like cells, occupying the interior of the gland. These are more distinct at the upper part, but vary in form and disposition. They generally communicate with each other, so as to give to the gland at that part the appearance of net- work. They are lined as -well as their orifices with the mem- brane of the mouth, and upon their surface excretory ducts open. § 4. OF THE PHARYNX. Is a large muscular bag in the form of an irregular funnel, with the oesophagus descending from it, and forming its under end. It is bounded above by the cuneiform process of the os occipitis, anteriorly by the pterygoid processes and jaws, and the larynx, with all of which it is connected. Posteriorly it lies upon the cervical vertebrae, and upon the muscles which