Sect. V. 319 before the ureters: and the right before the vena cava inferior* In the female they are shorter than in the male, pass between the layers of the broad ligaments, and are distributed to the ovaria, to the fallopian tubes, and the upper part of the uterus, upon which they anastomose with the other uterine arteries. In the male they are continued to the inguinal canal, where they assist in forming the spermatic cord, and in it pass, and are distributed, to the testicle. They furnish branches in their course to the ureters and adjacent parts. 4. lumbar. A. lumhales. Those from the aorta are com- monly four in number on each side, the fifth being usually supplied from the iliac, or from the middle sacral artery. Sometimes there are only three, in consequence of the lower- most arising by a common trunk. They come off more from the back part of the aorta; then take their course backward, round the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, as far as the roots of the transverse processes, under the psoae muscles, to which, as well as to the quadrati, they furnish branches. At the roots of the transverse processes each sends a branch back- ward, (R. dorsalis,) distributed to the muscles lying near the spine, and to the spinal marrow by a branch passing through the vertebral foramina. They are then continued forwards to supply the abdominal muscles, and form communications with branches of the epigastric artery. ยง 5. BRANCHES FROM THE TERMINATION OF THE AORTA. The aorta commonly terminates upon the fourth, or be- tween the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, by dividing into two large, constant, and corresponding branches, called the common iliac arteries, A. ilicicce communes, py'imitivce; and a third small azygous, and not constant branch, called the middle sacral, A. sacra, sacralis media. These branches sup- ply the lower part of the trunk and lower extremities. middle sacral. A. sacralis media. Is a small branch which arises from the back part of the aorta, at its bifurcation ; but is sometimes a branch of the common iliac. It descends over the body of the last lumbar vertebra, thence along the middle of the sacrum and os coccygis, and is lost upon the adjacent parts and back part of the rectum. In its course it gives ofi commonly a branch on each side to form the fifth lumbar arteries ; it next detaches on each false vertebra com- monly a pair of branches, which pass outwards, arc distributed