Sect. V. 373 and from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve; and divides into an external and an internal branch. а. External is distributed to the inferior con-5 stricter of the pharynx, to the muscles of the larynx, and by some twigs to the thyroid gland and membrane of the larynx. ft. Internal takes its course between the os hyoides and thyroid cartilage to the interior of the larynx, and divides into branches to the muscles of the arytaenoid cartilages, the mucous glands, and membrane of the larynx. 4. filaments, which accompany those of the pharyngeal and glosso-pharyngeal upon the carotid artery. 5. cardiac branches. (Rami cardiaci.) Two or three in number, of small size, which arise about the middle of the neck, descend along the outer and fore part of the ca- rotid, join with the superficial cardiac branches, and are spread upon the arch of the aorta. б. recurrent. (N. recurrens, laryngeus inferior.) Arises as soon as the nerve enters the chest; the left, how- ever, is given off lower than the right. It first descends di- rected backwards, then passes upward behind the subclavian artery on the right side, and behind the arch of the aorta on the left, and ascends between the oesophagus and trachsea, as high as the larynx, where it divides into branches distributed to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, to the muscles of the arytaenoid cartilages, and to the lining membrane of the larynx : forming junctions by several filaments with branches of the laryngeus superior, and on the right side it joins with the superficial cardial of the sympathetic which does not pass further. In its course the recurrent nerve distributes nu- merous branches; viz. a. Filaments, which join with the cardiac branches of the pneumo-gastric, and with those of the great sympathetic, passing to the cardiac plexus. ft. Tracheal, (R. trachseales interiores) which are distributed to the lining membrane of the trachaea to the pharynx, and oesophagus ; some of these descending be- fore the air-tube join with the former, and with the pulmo- nary plexus. 7. pulmonary. (R. trachaeales inferiores.), Five or six small branches, given off behind Ihe root of the lung, which pass partly before and partly behind the air-tube and its branches forming the pulmonary plexus. The anterior