114 Sect. It from the anterior and inferior spinous process of the ilium, and the other from the dorsum of the same bone, a little above the acetabulum. They form by their union a single strong tendon, which descends down the middle of the fore part of the thigh, forming a strong double penniform muscle, which terminates below in a strong flat tendon. Insertion. Tendinous into the base of the patella. Use. To flex the thigh on the belly, and at the same time to extend the leg. 3. M. Vastus Extjernus. Situation. On the outside of the thigh ; it is the strongest extensor of the leg. OH gin. Broad tendinous and fleshy from the fore and outer part of the root of the trochanter major, and from the outer side of the greater part of the linea aspera. The fibres run obliquely downwards and forwards. Insertion. Tendinous into the outer and upper part of the patella, and connected with the tendon of the rectus. Use. To extend the leg upon the thigh. 4. M. Vastus Internus. Situation. Smaller than the former, on the inner side of the os femoris. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy from the fore and upper part of the os femoris, extending as high as the rough line between the trochanter major and minor, and from the upper part of the inside of the linea aspei'a. Its fibres pass obliquely downwards and forwards. It is connected below with the tendon of the rectus. Insertion. Tendinous into the inner and upper part of the patella. Use. Same as the last. 5. M. Cruralis. Situation. On the front of the thigh, between the M. vasti, and covered by the M. rectus, which should be turned aside. Origin. Fleshy below the former muscle, from the larger part of the anterior and external surface of the os femoris, The larger part of this muscle is covered by the vasti, and is intimately connected with both those muscles. Insertion. Into the upper part of the patella, behind the rectus. Use. To extend the leg. Between the tendons of this muscle, that of the vastus ex- ternus, the capsule of the knee joint, and the patella, is situated a bursa mucosa, which frequently opens into the joint.