378 Sect. V. downward between the rectus capitis and scalenus anticus, next on the inner edge of the scalenus between the sub- clavian artery and vein, and enters the chest. It is then directed forwards, passes before the root of the lung, and descends between the pericardium and pleura. As it ap- proaches the diaphragm it divides into several branches which are distributed to the convex part of that muscle. Some of the branches pass through the diaphragm with the inferior cava, distribute filaments to the under surface of the diaphragm, and form connections with filaments of the solar plexus. The left lies farther back, is longer than the right, and furnishes some twigs to the oesophagus. The Four Inferior Cervical and the First Dorsal Nerve are of large size, especially the sixth cervical. These form by their junctions the Axillary Plexus, from which the nerves originate supplying the upper extremity. They pass out under the con*esponding vertebrae, and after issuing from the vertebral foramina, send small branches to the muscles of the back: take their course outward and down- ward between the scalenus anticus and medius, accompany- ing the subclavian vessels, being situated above and behind, and to the outer side of the artery. They pass with these vessels under the clavicle, and retain the same relative posi- tion with respect to the axillary vessels, as far as the part op- posite to the coracoid process of the scapula : but they here pass around the artery so as to conceal it. During this course the nerves divide, join and separate again, so as to form the Axillary or Brachial Plexus. The nerves which come off from the plexus are the— 1. Thoracic. 2. Scapular. 3. Articular. 4. Inner cuta- neous. 5. Inner smaller cutaneous. 6. Outer cutaneous. 7. Radial. 8. Median. 9. Ulnar. § 3. NERVES FROM THE AXILLARY PLEXUS. 1. Thoracic. N. Thor acid. Consist of branches derived from the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical. They de- scend upon the parietes of the chest, and are distributed to the subclavius and pectorales, and to the skin of the chest and shoulder; one branch commonly descending upon the serratus magnus, and distributed to it. 2. Scapular. N. scapularis. Frequently from the fourth and fifth cervical. Passes downward and backward, is continued through the notch of the scapula to the fossa supra-spinata, and furnishes twigs to the supra-spinatus :