Sect. VI. 431 The Lob us is the inferior soft and pendent part of the ear; it is composed of cellular substance with a small quantity of fat. The Auricle is covered by a continuation of the common integuments, which are thinner here than in most other parts of the body, and are perforated by the mouths of se- baceous follicles. A cartilaginous structure gives form to the pinna of the external ear, and sends an elongation to assist in forming the meatus. It is connected to the tem- poral bone by the common integuments, apd by its muscles, and is furnished with ligamentous expansions which connect it to the zygoma, mastoid process, and lateral parts of the head. Some small and generally indistinct muscles are situated on the cartilage. They are 1. M. Helicis major. Above the tragus, covering the beginning of the helix. 2. M. Helicis minor. On the transverse eminence which divides the concha. 3. M. Tragicus. On the tragus, beginning at the base of the tragus externally, and terminating at its apex. 4. M. Anti-tragicus. Occupies the space between the anti-tragus and anti-helix, beginning on the former and ter- minating on the latter by oblique fibres. 5. M. Transversus auris. Situated on the back part. It begins on the prominent part of the concha, and terminates on the outside of the anti-helix. Meatus Auditorius Externus. In order to examine the course of the meatus, its anterior wall must be cut away as far as that portion which sustains the membrana tyrapani. It is situated between the mastoid process and glenoid cavity, and extends from the convexity of the concha to the membrana tympani. Its perpendicular section presents an oval figure. Its length somewhat varies, being in the foetus only a bony ring, which in the adult becomes a tube of about an inch in length. Its course is slightly tortuous ; it is first directed upwards and forwards, and then turns a little downwards and backwards, so that on the whole it is convex above and concave below. The turns, however, are so inconsiderable, that the bottom of the passage may be seen in a clear light by pulling the ear backwards. The meatus externus is partly bony and partly cartilaginous. The cartilaginous part is continued from the concha, and,is of an irregular figure. It has two or three fissures commonly, and at the upper and back part it is defective. At the fissures’