'374 Sect V. join with the filaments from the recurrent, and with some from the inferior cervical ganglion. The posterior filaments ot the pulmonary plexus, and formed in part likewise by fila- ments from the superior thoracic ganglion. The branches from the plexus are continued with the bronchia on each side, and are distributed principally to the lining membrane of their ramifications. 8. oesophageal. After the pneumo-gastric has given off the pulmonary branches, it divides on the right side into five or six, and on the left side into two or three fasciculi; these separate, but are connected by several communicating branches, forming the (esophageal plexus. The branches again unite forming a cord on each side, which descends upon the oesophagus, and, connected by anterior branches, distri- butes filaments to the oesophagus and aorta. 9. coronary. The two branches above described descend with the oesophagus through the aperture of the dia- phragm and terminate on the stomach. The right is dis- tributed on the right side and posterior surface, it forms an intricate plexus about the cardia, sends branches along the less curvature, and forms junctions with the left branch, and with filaments of the sympathetic, distributed to the stomach, it forms the solar plexus. The left is distributed to the anterior surface by several branches, extending towards the pylorus, and form junctions with filaments of the right, and with branches of the sympathetic. The distribution of these branches, by which the pneumo-gastric terminates, is called the CORONARY or STOMACHIC PLEXUS. XI. Lingual. Ar. lingualis, hypo-glossns. Comes off from the anterior surface of the medulla oblongata, by several separate fasciculi, which, after passing through the dura ma- ter in two or three divisions unite to form a single nerve, continued through the anterior condyloid foramen. It takes its course downwards, is joined by a twig from the pneumo- gastric, from the sub-occipital nerve, and from the superior cervical ganglion, and appearing between the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, is thence directed forwards in a bend and crosses before both carotids, at the origin of the occipital artery; it continues its course behind the termi- nation of the facial vein, and before the external carotid artery, near the os hyoides passing behind the digastricus and stylo- hyoideus, between them and the stylo-glossus. The lingual nerve is in contact with the corresponding artery, until it has reached the side of the tongue, but here is continued forwards