201 Sect. III. trachaea. Upon the mucous membrane, where the excretory ducts termi- nate, pores are discovered ; and similar pores .are observed upon the mem- brane lining the branches ot the bronchi. About the beginning' of the bronchi are situated numerous absorbent glands, called the bronchial glands. They vary in number, size, situation, and figure. Their colour in the adult is of a deep blue or brown; in age they become black, and in childhood they are reddish or white. Pulmonary Vessels. The vascular system of the lungs consists of two orders of vessels : the ramifications of the pulmonary artery and those of the pulmonary veins. The Pulmonary Artery takes its origin from the right ventricle of the heart; and at the left side of the aorta it divides into two principal branches. The right passes behind the aorta and vena cava superior to enter the right lung before the bronchus : it is the longer of the two. The left, the shorter and less capacious, ascends directly to the left lung. They both divide in the lungs like the bronchi, the course of whose ramifications they follow, and are distri- buted to all parts of the lungs. ' i The Pulmonary Veins begin from the extremities of the pulmonary arteries. They take the course of the other vessels, and are collected into trunks, which terminate at last in four principal veins, two of which belong to each lung, and end in the left auricle. The right superior passes to the su- perior and right part of the auricle ; the inferior ascends from the inferior lobe to the inferior and right part of the auricle. The left pass in like manner to the left side of the auricle, generally, however, being somewhat closer together. According to the experiments of Haller and others, it would appear that these vessels have communication with the air-tubes : since fluids injected into them pass into the ramifications of the bronchia 5 and,'vice versa, in- jected into the bronchia, pass into these vessels. But as Haller himself observes, we are not authorized to infer the existence of such communica- tion in the living animal. OF THE HEART. The heart should now be prepared for dissection, by cut- ting through the great vessels at some distance from their origin, and dissecting from them the cellular membrane : but leaving the remains of the canalis arteriosus, which appears like a ligamentous cord stretched between the pulmonary