263 Sect. IV. the right. They are attached to the spermatic cords, which are connected with them at the lower and back part. Spkrmatic Cord. Consists of the vessels and nerves of the testicle, which pass through the inguinal canal, already described, see page 234, and having made its appear- ance at the external abdominal ring, it is continued down to the testicle. In dissecting the Spermatic Cord it will be found to be invested with Three Coverings j of these, The exterior is derived from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, which is continued round it, into the scrotum ; it is distinct, and becomes thickened in old herniae. The secojid consists of the cremaster muscle, which is made up of a number of pale fibres, deriving their origin from the lower edges of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles of the abdomen; it surrounds the spermatic vessels and passes with them through the external abdominal ring as far as the testicle, where the fibres spread upon the tunica vaginalis. The third covering is called the tunica vaginalis of the cord; it is a continuation of the peritonaeum which passes down through the inguinal canal, and having given this co- vering to the cord, is continued over the testicle to form the tunica vaginalis testis ; in both, the tunic is double, consisting of a close and reflected portion; but in this of the cord the two portions are commonly not distinct, from its cavity hav- ing been obliterated in the completion of the healthy pro- cesses, and thus confounded with the common cellular mem- brane. In some persons, however, it is distinct and not closed. The Vessels consist of The spermatic artery, which is a branch of the aorta. 1 he spermatic veins are larger and more numerous than the arteries. They pass upwards in the spermatic cord, forming a plexus, which has been called the plexus pampini- for mis, vel pyramidalis. The vas deferens, the excretory duct of the testicle, begins from the lower part of the epididymis. It is at first serpen- tine, becomes then straight, and passes up with the vessels of the cord and through the inguinal canal. It is of a whitish colour ; its parietes are firmer and thicker than those bf any other excretory duct, so as, when put between the finger and thumb, to appear like whip-cord. There is only one tunic