108 Sect. XI. o, 'igin. By distinct slips from the side of the body, and from the transverse process of the last dorsal vertebra, and in the same manner from the bodies and transverse processes of all the lumbar vertebrae. These unite to form a rounded fleshy belly, which descends before the inner part of the iliacus, then over the junction of the os pubis and ilium, and terminates in a strong tendon. Insertion. Tendinous and fleshy into the trochanter minor and body of the os femoris, a little below that process. Use. To bend the thigh forwards on the belly, and to rotate it outwards; or if the thigh be fixed, to bend the body forwards upon the lower extremities. 3. M. Psoas Parvus. Situation. Upon the last muscle: it is small, and often wanting. Origin. Fleshy from the side of the bodies of the two uppermost lumbar vertebrae, and sometimes from the last dorsal vertebra. It sends off a long slender tendon, which descends upon the inner side of the psoas magnus: from which an aponeurosis extends upon the adjacent muscles. Insertion. Into the brim of the pelvis, at the junction of the os pubis and ilium. Use. To assist in bending the loins forwards, or in bending the pelvis upon the loins. 4. M. Iliacus. ^ Situation. Filling up the venter of the ilium, and hence is sometimes called iliacus interims. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy from the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra, from the inner labium of the spine of the ilium, and from the edge of the bone, as far as the anterior and inferior spinous process; likewise fleshy from | the hollow of the ilium, which it fills up, and from the apo- neurosis, which covers it. The fibres converge as they de- scend, and join with the psoas magnus, where it becomes tendinous. Insertion. With the psoas magnus. Use. To bend the thigh forwards on the belly, and rotate it outwards ; or to bend the pelvis forwards on the thigh. Between the common tendon of the psoas magnus and iliacus and the capsular ligament of the hip joint, is situated a considerable bursa mucosa; and a smaller one between it and the trochanter minor. b. PiiLVic, containing two muscles.