Sect.' I. 18 THE BLADE BONE. Scapula. >Situation. On the posterior and superior part of the chest. Description. The scapula is of a triangular figure consisting of three angles, three edges, three pits, three processes, two articular surfaces, and two notches ; the inner and superior point is called the superior angle, angulus superior, the inner and inferior, the inferior angle, angulus inferior, and the outer and superior, the outer angle, angulus externus ; the outer angle has a slightly concave oval articular surface upon it called the glenoid cavity, cavitas glenoides, by which the os humeri articulates with the scapula, and around it the bone is contracted and forms the neck, cervix; the edges, costce, are the inner or base between the superior and in- ferior angles, the inferior between the inferior and external angles, and the superior between the external and internal angles : the body of the bone is divided behind or upon the dorsum into two pits, fossce, of which the inferior is the larger by the spine, the space above it is called the fossa supraspinata, and that below it the fossa infraspinata, on the inferior point of this is a triangular flat surface im- mediately above the inferior angle, giving origin to the M. teres major3 the front of the bone forming the third pit is hollow, and called the fossa suhscapulciris or venter; the spine, spina, begins from the base, where it has a small smooth surface about an inch and a half below the superior internal angle, it passes outwards and upwards, and terminates in the acromion, processus acromion, which is ex- panded over the top of the glenoid cavity, and about an inch above it, forming the point of the shoulder 3 it is of a triangu- lar figure, and has an articular surface on its inner and an- terior edge to join it to the clavicle; the third process is the t coracoid, processus coracoules, which originates by a thick root from the fore and upper part of the neck of the bone, and curves forwards and outwards before the glenoid cavity 3 the notches, incisurce, are one in the superior edge at the root of the coracoid process, and to its inner side for the passage of the supra scapular artery, vein, and nerve ; and one between the root of the glenoid cavity and the root of the acromion, through which the superior dorsal artery and vein pass to the fossa infra spinata. Connection. By the articular surface on the acromion with the collar-bone. The muscles attached to the scapula are sixteen, viz. to the spine above, M. trapezius, and below, M. deltoides 3 to the base M. levator scapulae, rhomboideus minor & major, & serra-