31 Sect. I. the head, M. semimembranosus; to the hack of the head and body, M. popliteus, gastrocnemius interims, tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum pedis; and to the fore part of the head and body, M. tibialis anticus : extensor longus dig. ped. THE SPLINT BONE. Fibula. Situation. On the outside of the leg, and forming a splint or support to the tibia. Description. The fibula is of a very irregular shape, and is composed of a head, body, base, and three articular sur- faces ; the head, caput, or upper extremity, is large and irre- gular, it has a smooth articular surface on its inner side facing upwards and inwards to join it with the tibia, and on the upper and outer part a little projecting process, processus bicipitalis, for the attachment of the M. biceps flexor cruris : the body, corpus, consists of several ridges and depressions for the origin and lodgement of muscles ; it becomes larger at the base, basis, which is smooth in front, and covered only by skin; on its inner side is an irregular articular surface to join it with the outside of the base of the tibia ; below the base is lengthened to form the outer ankle, malleolus ext emus, on the inside of which is an oblique articular surface facing downwards and inwards for the outside of the astragalus; the extreme outer point gives attachment to ligaments, and the posterior part is grooved for the tendons of the M. peronei. The medullary artery enters in the middle of the posterior part of the bone. Connection. On its inside above to the tibia, and below to that hone and the astragalus. The muscles attached to this bone are eight: viz. to the processus bicipitalis, M. biceps flexor crucis; to the fore part of the body, M. extensor longus digitorum & extensor pro- prius pollicis pedis ; on the outside, the M. peroneus longus & brevis; and belaud, the M. gastrocnemius interims, tibialis posticus, & flexor longus pollicis pedis. 3. THE FOOT. Fes. Consists of the tarsus, metatarsus, and toes. THE TARSAL-BONES, Tarsus, Like the carpus, is forming a kind of arch, under which tendons, vessels, and nerves pass into the sole of the foot. It consists of seven bones, the astragalus, os calcis, os navicu- lare, three ossa cuneiformia, and the os cuboides; the four last bones are placed in a row and support the metatarsus.