Sect. III. 165 miilale or olivare. It passes outwards and forwards-, and takes its course opposite to the posterior clinoid process through the dura mater into the cavernous sinus, from the blood°in which it is separated by the internal membrane. It has on the inner side the carotid artery, with which it is con- nected, and sends some filaments to the sympathetic nerve, and on the outer side the opthalmic branch of the trigeminal nerve, and is continued through the foramen lacerum. ' 7* Auditory, Portio mollis, auditorius, acitsli- cus, par septimum. Is so named from its soft texture, but is more firm than the olfactory. Arises by the white filaments of the calamus scriptorius, and from the lateral surface of the crus of the cerebellum, just above the nervus vagus. It passes over the edge of the crus cerebelii with which it is intimately connected. Its inner surface is hollowed for the reception of the portio dura. At its origin it is soft and not distinctly fibrous ; but becomes so on leaving the brain. The nerve passes into the meatus auditorius interims, along which it is continued. 8. Facial, Portio dura, communicans faciei, sym- pathcticus minor. Is smaller than the portio mollis, arises from the portio mollis, which receives it in a groove, from the posterior edge of the pons Varolii and from the crus cerebelii. The nerve passes from the side of the middle of the pons forwards and outwards to the auditory foramen, is continued through its' canal with the portio mollis, then cpiits it and takes its course through the stylo mastoid canal. 9. Glosso-pharyngeal, Nerv. glosso-phari/n- geus. Arises by five or six threads between]'the nervus vagus and facial nerve, close to the former ; from the under surface of the crus cerebelii, from the depression between it, the corpus olivare, and the posterior edge of the pons Varolii, from which it receives sometimes a filament or two ; takes its course outward, and at first forward, and is connected by a strong branch with the pneumo-gastric nerve. It passes into a separate sheath of dura mater, and is continued through the fore part of the foramen lacerum basis eranii, at the beginning of which it forms an oval ganglion. 10. Pneumo-gastric, Nerv. vagus, nerv. pneu- mogaslricns, £fc. Arises from the under and lateral part of the crus cerebelii, and from the groove between it and the corpus olivare, by from ten to sixteen filaments, receiving some few from the corpus olivare. These filaments con- verge into a flat trunk, which takes its course in a short sheath