Sect. V. 315 branches, one of which only is from the coronary or superior mesenteric. It takes its course to the right, then, upwards and forwards, passes through Glisson’s capsule to the porta of the liver, a little below which it divides into a right and left hepatic branch. Before its division it gives off a. right inferior gastric. A. gastrica clextra inferior. It passes downward and to the left between the duodenum, the pylorus, and the pancreas to the greater curv- ature of the stomach, along which it is continued between the layers of the omentum to the left, and anastomoses with the left inferior gastric branch of the splenic. It furnishes the following branches a. Duodenal, (R. duodenales,) consisting of one or two branches distributed to the duodenum and pylorus. ft. Pancreatic, (R. paiiereatici,) distributed to the right extremity of the pancreas. 7. Epiploic, (R. epiploici,) long but slender branches, which descend between the layers of the omentum. 0. Gastric, (R. gastrici,) branches which ascend upon the surfaces of the stomach and are distributed to its coats. h. pyloric. A. pylorica, gcistrica clextra superior. Sometimes given off before the inf. gastric branch, or from that vessel. It descends upon the pylorus, furnishes branches to it and to the adjacent parts, and anastomoses with the coronary upon the lesser curvature of the stomach. The hepatic artery then terminates in c. right hepatic;, A. hepatica clextra. It is larger than the left, supplies the right lobe of the liver, and furnishes the «. Cystic Branch, (A. cystica,) which passes upon the gall-bladder, frequently dividing into two branches, and is distributed to its coats. d. left hepatic. A. hepatica sinistra. Supplies the left lobe of the liver. 3. splenic. A. splenica, lienalis. Commonly the largest of the branches from the coeliac, takes its course to the "left behind the stomach, and along the upper edge of the pancreas, as far as the fissure of the spleen, opposite to which it divides into several large branches, which are distributed to the sub- stance of the spleen. It furnishes in its course < a. Pancreatic, (R. pancreatici,) several in number, which descend inclined to the left upon the pancreas, and send branches into its substance,