Sect. II. S3 Behind this ligament is a bursa, which begins above the wrist joint, and extends to the metacarpus. It encloses the tendons of both flexors, and sends off processes which sur- round and loosely connect them. On the fingers Vaginal Ligaments are found, which con- sist of transverse, oblique, and decussating fibres, which run over the tendons of the flexors, and are fixed to the edges of the bones of the phalanges. Upon the body of these bones they are thick and strong, but over the joints they are thin, and become weaker towards the extremities of the fingers. On the joints they are frequently called the annular liga- ments, Annuli juncturarum ligamentosi, and the fasciculi be- tween the crucial ligaments of the first and second phalanx. Annuli cruciati phalangis prim a; et secundce. These ligamentous sheaths are lined by Synovial Mem- branes, which begin a little above the first joint, and extend to the middle of the third phalanx, and form a lubricated sur- face for the motion of the tendons of the flexors which are contained within them. The tendons are unconnected except by small tendinous processes, called the Accessory liga- ments of the flexor tendons, Ligamenta tendinum acces- sor ia, which arise from the first and second phalanges, run obliquely forwards within the sheaths, and terminate in the tendons of the two flexor muscles. The dissection of the other muscles in the anterior deep region of the fore arm is now to be prosecuted. They con- sist, besides the flexor profundus digitorum, of the 2. M. Flexor Pollicis Longus. Situation. On the outer side of the M. flexor dig. com. prof. Origin. Fleshy from the fore part of the radius, its attach- ment extending from the tubercle of the bone to the insertion of the pronator quadratus, and from the interosseous ligament. It has generally another origin by a separate slip from the inner condyle of the os humeri, or from the coronoid process of the ulna. It sends out a strong tendon, which passes with the tendons of the former muscles into the hand, and runs between the heads of the flexor brevis pollicis. Insertion. Into the second phalanx of the thumb : its tendon being enclosed in a peculiar synovial bursa. Use. To bend the last joint of the thumb. > 3. M. Pronator Quadratus. Situation. On the lower extremities of the radius and g 2