252 Sect. IV. of the porta, which are two in number : the one, the Lohulus Quadratics, so named from its figure, which bounds anteriorly the porta, and separates the anterior half of the longitudinal or great fissure from the depression in which the gall-bladder rests; the other, called the Lohulus Spigelii, is more consider- able than the last, and is seen through the little omentum. It varies in figure, but is generally of a triangular or quadri- lateral form ; it bounds the porta posteriorly. Two processes extend from it; one, called the Lohulus Caudatus,extending on the surface of the larger lobe, and separating two de- pressions afterward to be spoken of; while the other extends to the posterior margin, and assists in forming a canal or depression for the passage of the vena cava inferior. 5. A superficial oval depression, on which part of the gall-bladder lodges, situated to the right of the lohulus quadratus, and without peritonaeum. 6. Two less depressions on the right lobe, the anterior answering to the union of the right lumbar colon with the arch; the posterior to the superior extremity of the right kidney and capsula renalis. ' The circumference of the liver is irregular in figure and of unequal thickness ; and all, except its posterior margin, co- vered'by peritonaeum. 1. The anterior edge is thin, and has two notches ; one deep and narrow, the commencement of the longitudinal fissure, lodging the remains of the umbilical vein, and the duplicature of peritonaeum which surrounds it; the other larger, receiving the fundus of the gall-bladder ; but not always found. 2. The posterior edge is shorter but thicker, especially to the right. It is attached to the diaphragm by the triangular and lateral ligaments, between which it is destitute of peritonaeal covering, about two fingers’ breadth, and con- nected by cellular membrane with the diaphragm. In its middle is an irregular depression which terminates the great fissure, and a fossa which assists in forming a canal for the vena cava inferior, at the bottom of which the hepatic veins terminate. Structure of the Liver. Of a peculiar character, con- sisting principally of numerous vessels, viz. the ramifications of the vena portae, (a venous system of peculiar structure, distribution, and function;) those of the hepatic artery, of the hepatic veins, and of the excretory ducts : to all which, add the numerous branches of nerves and absorbent vessels distributed to it. It derives its principal covering from the peritonaeum, which is conti- nued on to this viscus from different surrounding parts. It leaves different parts uncovered; viz. the. posterior edge, the two fissures, the depression for the vena cava, and that for the gall-bladder. Beneath this is condensed cellular membrane. Vena Portae. This consists of two orders of vessels, which 4