Sect. III. 206 anil the opening of the aorta. The auricular opening is the larger, and corresponds with the size of the auricle. From its circumference is continued the tendinous curtain, cor- tina tendinea, which has commonly two projections, the one opposite to the obtuse edge, and the other opposite to the aortic opening. To this curtain the chordae tendinecc before spoken of are attached, and thus is formed the bicuspid or mitral valve, valvula mitrtilis, of the auricular opening. The opening of the aorta is situated a little more anteriorly: it has three semilunar valves, which resemble those of the pulmonary artery, but are thicker and stronger. Opposite to them are three depressions or enlargements of the aorta, called the sinuses, sin. Valsalvae: in the two anterior sinuses, a little above the edge of the valves, are the openings of the two coronary arteries. Structure of the Heart. The proper structure of the heart is muscular, its external surface covered by the close portion of the pericar- dium ; and it has a peculiar lining of membrane. The muscular fibres com- posing it cross each other in all directions, but on the exterior assume a more regular disposition. The thickness of the muscular coat varies at dif- ferent parts : it is thinner in the auricles than in the ventricles ; and in the ventricles it is much thinner on the right side than on the left. It is thick where it forms the septum both of the auricles and ventricles. Between the muscular covering and the pericardium, more or less fat is usually deposited, and it is more abundant generally on the right side, and in the course of the coronary vessels. The membrane which lines the heart gives a smooth and polished surface to the interior of its cavitjes: it is so thin that, in some parts, it appears to be wanting 3 hut even in these it may be detached in small portions. Coronary Vessels. The two arteries so called, and by which the heart is supplied, are the first branches given off by the aorta, and arise from that vessel nearly op- posite to the edges of the semilunar valves, as has been already described. They are distinguished by the names of right and left coronary. The right, or anterior, takes its course transversely between the right auricle and ventricle, is continued to the flattened surface of the heart, then passes in the direction of the septum as far as the apex of the heart. It distributes branches in its course, which principally, supply #ie right side. The left, or posterior artery, passes down- wards, covered by the appendix of the left auricle, to the convex surface of the heart 3 one branch continuing in the groove between the ventricles, as far as the apex, and anasto- mosing with the right artery ; another branch passing in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, to the flattened surface of the heart. This left artery distributes branches chiefly to the left side of the heart.