Sect. III. 103 torn, from which nerves go to the nose. It is composed of medullary and cineritious fibres intermixed. 2. Optic, New. opticus, par secundum. Arises by a broad flat beginning from the back part of the outer and upper surface of the thalamus and corpora quadrigemina, being connected more especially with the testes. The nerve is con- tinued forwards and inwards over the inferior surface of the crus cerebri to which it is attached ; it becomes in its course narrower, thicker and rounder ; and joins with the other optic nerve, at an obtuse angle immediately under the third ventri- cle, with the bottom of which it is connected by fibres. The optic nerves from their origin to this part form the tractus opticus. The nerves then separate and diverge to pass through the optic foramina. Concerning the manner of their junction there still subsists a variety of opinion: viz. 1. That they are only contiguous; 2. Or that they com- pletely [cross, a decussation taking place, so that the right passes to the left, the left to the right side; 3. Or that the decussation is only partial. The first opinion is supported by the fact that the outer fibres have been found to pass on to the same side, and that no decussating fibres can be discovered in the middle; that two cases have been met with, in which no union was traced; and that in blindness, with consequent decrease of the nerve, the diminution has been continued behind the place of junction on the same side. The second opinion is supported by the alleged observ- ation of several anatomists ; by cases where a small optic nerve, without disease beyond the place of junction, has reappeared as a small nerve behind the place of junction on the opposite side ; by cases of disease where the opposite nerve has been affected behind the junction; by some cases where the disease has been at the origin of one nerve, and the opposite eye affected ; and by analogy with the optic nerves of fish, in which a complete decussation is evident. Nor is the third opinion unsupported by anatomi- cal examination and by pathological observations, in which the affection has been continued on the same side through the external fibres, to the op- posite side by the internal fibres, or where in the affection of one eye and nerve, both nerves have been affected behind the place of junction. The necessary inference from these observations, supposing them correct, is, that the junction is taking place in different individuals in the three differ- ent modes above enumerated. But it is probable that in the greater num- ber of instances the mixture of fibres is more or less partial. At the same time it may be remarked that the decrease of the nerve behind the place of junction cannot amount to a proof; as where blindness has continued for a length of time in both eyes, one nerve has been found much smaller than the other. 3. Common Oculo-musculau, New. oculo- muscularis communis, motor oculi, par tertium. Comes off close to the anterior edge of the pons Vnrolii, from the inner surface of the crus cerebri. But its origin may be traced higher through the cineritious substance by a fasciculus, the anterior part of which reaches to the depression between the