Sect. IV. 269 form an oval muscle, which surrounds the extremity of the rectum. Insertion. By a narrow termination into a condensed cel- lular substance, which connects it with the accelerators urinae and transversi perinei. Use. To close the anus. 2. M. Levator Ani. Situation. Surrounding the rectum like a funnel. This muscle should be laid bare, but it cannot be completely dissected till the os inhominatum has been separated. In continuing the dissection, a thin ligamentous expansion will be found deep-seated between the pubes and ischia, stretched between the rami of the pubes, of a triangular form, to which the bulb is firmly connected, and through the centre of which the urethra passes. Origin. By a distinct edge from the os pubis within the pelvis, at the upper edge of the foramen obturator; from the aponeurosis covering the obturator interims and coc- cygeus muscles ; and from the spinous process of the ischium. Its fibres descend and converge. Insertion. By intervening cellular substance into the sphincter ani and acceleratores urinse, and into the extremity of the os coccygis. The two muscles form together a kind of funnel, which surrounds the extremity of the rectum, neck of the bladder, prostate gland, and part of the vesiculse seminales. Use. To raise the rectum after it lias been depressed in passing the faeces. ยง 3. OF THE SIDE VIEW OF THE CONTENTS OF THE PELVIS. We have brought this part of the dissection under a dis- tinct title in order to convey a more accurate knowledge of the relative position of these parts. The side view of the contents of the pelvis may be pre- pared by separating the left os innominatum at the sacro- iliac symphysis, cutting through the symphysis pubis without injuring the urethra below, then turning the viscera to the right side, distending the bladder, and stuffing the rectum. The accuracy of the impression will, however, much depend upon bearing in mind the changes producible by changing the position of the pelvis. It has been already observed, that in the erect posture of the body, and likewise in the horizontal, if the lumbar vertebra be not incurvated, the axis of the pelvis will form an acute angle with that of the trunk. But in pro-