382 Sect. V. it passes backward behind the inner condyle of the os humeri, situated in the groove between the condyle and olechranon pro- cess of the ulna, with the recurrent ulnar artery. It takes its course in the fore arm first between the heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, then between it and the flexor digitorum, and descends on the inner side of the fore arm with the ulnar artery, being situated on the inner side of that vessel. It passes with the artery over the annular ligament into the palm of the hand, and there terminates by dividing into a superficial and deep branch'. In its course through the upper arm it detaches no branches, except, in some cases, the inner cutaneous nerve. In the fore arm it gives off 1. Branches near the elbow to the flexor ulnaris and flexor profundus. 2. Cutaneous branch, which descends under the skin, in the course of the basilic vein, and is distributed to the skin as far as the hand. 3. Dorsal (N. ulnaris dorsalis) given off at the lower part of the fore arm; passes backward between the flexor ulnaris and ulna, just above or upon its base, and divides into twigs, supplying the skin of the back of the hand, and the skin of the inside of the middle and both sides of the ring finger and little finger, and forming junctions with twigs of the radial nerve. Of the two branches by which it terminates— 4. Superjicicd palmar is connected by one or more twigs to branches of the median. It gives off a. Branches distributed to the muscles of the N little finger. /3. Digital branch, which is continued along the inner side of the little finger to its tip. 7. Digital branch, which passes to the interstice between the roots of the ring and little fingers, and there divides, sending one branch along the outer side of the little finger, and another along the inner side of the ring finger to their extremity. 5. Deep palmar passes deep-seated between the flexor and abductor of the little finger, and is then directed transversely outward behind the tendons of the flexors, fur- nishing twigs to the lumbricales, the interossei, and adductor pollicis muscle. § 4. THORACIC NERVES. Consist of twelve pair which are comparatively of small size. The first pair has been already spoken of with the lower