Sect. V. 293 5. occiriTAL. A. occipitalis. Is a vessel of some size, and nearly as large as the anterior vessels. It arises from the back part of the external carotid nearly opposite to the lin- gual or facial. It is rarely a branch of the internal carotid. It takes its course over the internal jugular vein, and then be- tween the transverse process of the first vertebra and the mastoid process of the temporal bone. It is continued under the sterno-mastoid muscle, the trachelo-mastoideus, splenius, and complexus. It then becomes superficial, runs upwards upon the occipital bone, and divides into several branches. It gives off a. Branches to the digastricus, sterno-mastoideus, and glands of the neck, and sometimes a branch through the foramen lacerum to the dura mater. /3. Descending branch, of considerable size, which passes down between the complexus and trachelo-mastoideus, and is distributed to the muscles at the back of the neck. It anastomoses with the vertebral. 7. Branch which passes through the foramen mastoidemn to the dura mater. This branch is not always found. <5. Branches. These, by which the occipital ar- tery terminates, are distributed to the occipito-frontalis and integuments, and anastomose with branches of the temporo- occipital and of the opposite occipital, so as to form a net- work of vessels. 6. posterior aural. A. auricularis posterior. Is smaller and arises higher than the former. It is often a branch of the occipital. It passes upwards behind the external carotid to- wards the mastoid process, is continued upon tire back of the concha, and terminates upon the side of the head. It gives off a. Branches to the parotid gland, the posterior belly of the digastricus, the stylo-hyoideus, and sterno- mastoideus. /3. Stylo-mastoid branch, (A. stylo-mastoidea,) which passes through the stylo-mastoid foramen, and is dis- tributed to the meatus externus, membrana tympani, tym- panum, and part of the labyrinth of the ear. 7. Branches. Distributed to the ear and side of the head. The branches by which the external carotid terminates are the temporal and internal maxillary. 1 7- temporal. A. temporalis. Is the smaller and more su- perficial. It is continued upwards in the same direction as the