Sect. V. 306 a Internal scapular (R. scapularis interims) con- tinues in the course of the trunk, along the under edge of the subscapularis, then passes upon the side of the chest directed downwards and backwards, and supplying branches to the subscapularis, teres major, latissinms dorsi, serratus magnus, and to the axillary glands. ft. Inferior dorsal of the scapula (R. dorsalis scapulae inferior) gives off branches to the subscapularis, and to the teres major and minor; then passes round the neck of the scapula, between the subscapularis and teres major to the dorsum of the bone upon which it gives off many branches to the infra-spinatus. The artery is then continued to the root of the acromion, where it anastomoses with the superior dor- sal of the scapula, and thus a passage for the blood is pre- served under the obstruction of the trunk of the subclavian and axillary arteries between the origin of the superior dorsal and infra-scapular branches. There are two circumflex arteries of the arm—an anterior and a posterior; viz. 6. anterior circumflex. A. circumflexa anterior, arti- cular is anterior. Is smaller than the posterior. It arises just above the edge of the tendon of the latissinms dorsi, and then passes outwards round the os humeri, between it and the common origin of the coraco-brachialis and biceps, just below the head of the bone. It sends branches upwards to the shoulder-joint and parts adjacent, some of which anastomose with the dorsal artery of the scapula; and is then con- tinued under the deltoid muscle, supplying it with branches, by which it terminates, and which anastomose with branches of the posterior circumflex artery. 7- posterior circumflex. A. circumflex posterior, arti- cularis posterior. Is the larger of the two. It arises fre- quently from the infra-scapular, or from a trunk in common with the profunda humeri, and occasionally in common with the anterior circumflex artery. It passes backwards between the teres minor and major, and then round the os humeri, below its head, between the bone and the long head of the triceps, and is continued to the inner surface of the deltoid muscle. In its course it distributes branched to the long head of the triceps, to the shoulder-joint, teres minor, &c. and ter- minates by dividing into branches to the deltoid, some of which anastomose with branches of the anterior circumflex, infra-scapular, and dorsal scapular branches.