Sect V. 377 to join with the upper cervical ganglion, find with the first and third cervical nerves, by which junctions are formed with the descending branch of the lingual and with the accessory nerve, then divides into two branches, the superficial of the neck and the small occipital. a. Superficial of the neck. (N. superficial^ colli.) Bends round the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid and divides into branches (N. subcutanei) which spread on the side of the neck, and are distributed to the skin especially about the lower jaw, forming several communications with each other, and with branches of the facial nerve. One of its branches, the auricular (N. auricularis magnus) takes its course directly upward behind the jaw to the auricle, and furnishes branches to its skin and muscles. /3. Small occipital. (N.-occipitalis minor.) Passes upward, commonly soon dividing into several branches, over the splenius and trachelo-mastoideus, forms junctions with branches of the facial and occipital nerves, and is distributed to the skin of the occiput and back part of the ear, and to the adjacent parts. 2. Posterior. Smaller, passes backwards between the muscles, detaches branches of connection to the first and third cervical, and is distributed to the extensors of the head and neck, and to the skin of the neck. 3. Cervical. N. cervicalis tertius. Is smaller than the former. It passes out between the third and fourth vertebra, and divides into an anterior and posterior branch. 1. Anterior. Larger, detaches a branch to join with the fourth, and another with the second cervical, a branch which joins with the great sympathetic or superior cervical ganglion, and a branch which joins with the descend- ing branch of the lingual. It furnishes branches to the longus colli, and levator scapulae, and divides then into three or four branches (N. supra-claviculares) which descend and are distributed to the skin about the clavicle and adjacent parts. 2. Posterior. Smaller, it passes deep-seated between the muscles, and is distributed to the extensors of the head and neck. diaphragmatic nerve. (N. phrenicus, dia- phragmaticus.) Arises by different filaments from the lower cervical nerves; the most considerable filament is from the anterior branch of the fourth, but it receives a smaller from the third, and commonly one from the second, and'often a filament or two from the axillary plexus. It takes its course