366 Sect. V. course more on the inner side, and is distributed to the upper eyelid and forehead. P> Branch which passes to the frontal sinuses, but not always found. 2. Nasal. (R. nasalis, naso-ocularis.) Takes its course inwards between the optic nerve, and the levator oculi muscle, then between the superior oblique and adductor oculi, along the inner side of the orbit to the inner corner of the eye, and is divided into branches to the lachrymal sack and caruncle, and to the parts about the inner canthus. It sends off:— a. A branch near its commencement to the len- ticular ganglion. _ The OPHTHALMIC OR LENTICULAR GANGLION is of Small size.- It is situated on the outside of the optic nerve, sur- rounded by fat and cellular membrane. From this ganglion pass the Ciliary Nerves, N. ciliares, about twelve or fourteen small filaments, several of which frequently come off from the nasal nerve. The ciliary nerves run along the optic nerve, penetrate the sclerotic coat, pass upon the choroid, detaching some small twigs to it, and are principally distributed to the iris. p. Ethmoidal, (N. ethmoidalis,) which passes through the foramen orbitare internum anterius, into the cra- nium, descends through one of the anterior openings of the crybriform plate of the ethmoid bone into the nose, and con- tinues its course along the fore part of the septum to the point of the nose, distributing branches to the membrane at the fore part of the nose. 3. Lachrymal. Directs its course along the abductor oculi on the upper and outer part of the orbit, and divides an- teriorly into branches to the lachrymal gland, and to the ad- jacent parts of the eyelid and cheek. One branch forms a connection with one of the branches of the second division of the fifth pair. (2.) SECOND BRANCH OF THE FIFTH PAIR, SUPERIOR maxillary. (R. secundus, N. maxillaris superior.) Passes forwards and issues from the cranium through the foramen rotundum of the sphenoid bone, and is lodged at a space left between the bones behind the orbit, where it divides into branches. 1. Malar, (N. subcutaneus malse,) which passes through a foramen in the malar bone, furnishing small twigs, in its passage to the adjacent parts, and is distributed upon the cheek. 2. Alveolar. (N. alveolaris, dentalis.) It passes down upon the posterior surface of the tuberosity of the supe-