302 Sect V, Ventricle, and to the parts near which it passes ; then divides into branches to the posterior part of the hemisphere, espe- cially to its under surface, to the corpus callosum and thalami, and these freely communicate with branches of the anterior and middle arteries of the cerebrum. The other branches given off from the subclavian artery are 2. inferior thyroideal. A. thyroidea inferior. It arises farther out than the vertebral, and is a branch of considerable, but varying, size ; and the branches into which it divides are not constant. Sometimes the ascending, the supra- scapular, the superficial, and the deep cervical branches are given off from this artery or arise from a common trunk. Occasionally it sends off the internal mammary. It passes upwards and bends inwards behind the common carotid, sel- dom before it, to the thyroid gland; then divides into a num- ber of branches, which penetrate the under part of the gland, and anastomose with branches of the opposite inf. thyroideal and of the superior thyroideal on the same side. It distributes branches to the longus colli, some that pass through the ver- tebral foramina, and others that pass to the air-tube and oesophagus. The continuation of the trunk to the thyroid gland is distinguished by the name of the thyroideal branch, (R. thyroideus.) Sometimes there is a separate branch to the thyroid gland from the common carotid, from the unnamed trunk, or from the aorta (A. thyroidea ima,) the last of which passes over the fore part of the trachaea, and would, therefore, be in danger in the operation of trachaeotomy. 3. supra-scapular. A. transversa scapula, dorsalis su- perior scapula. It takes its course transversely outwards behind and a little above the clavicle, generally before, but sometimes behind the scalenus anticus, distributing branches to the muscles of the inferior hyoideal region and to the neigh- bouring muscles. It is continued to the superior costa of the scapula, passes through the notch upon the dorsum of the bone, then takes its course between the spine and glenoid cavity to the fossa infraspinata, and anastomoses by one oi more branches with the dorsal branch of the infia-scapular. It furnishes branches to the spinati muscles, to the adjacent muscles of the shoulder, aiid to the shoulder-joint. 4. ascending cervical. A. cervicalis adscendens. As- cends along the transverse processes of the cervical vertebne between the longus colli and scalenus anticus. It distri- butes branches to the muscles, which are attached to t ic