40 Sect. I. also sharp; the anterior inferior, the sphenoidal angle, angulus sphenoidalis, truncated; the posterior inferior, the temporal angle, atigulus temporalis, also truncated; in the anterior point of the sphenoidal angle internally is a groove, sometimes a complete canal for the middle artery of the dura mater, which passes upwards and marks the bone with its ramifications : on the posterior point of the temporal angle internally there is a broad groove, for part of the lateral sinus : the anterior edge is called the frontal edge, margo frontalis ; the superior, the parietal edge, margo parietalis ; the posterior, the occipital edge, margo occipitalis; all three of which are deeply serrated, and the inferior is the temporo sphenoidal edge, margo temporo-sphenoidalis, the posterior part of which is slightly serrated and the rest of it squamous; this edge is of a semicircular form, whilst the other three are nearly straight. About two inches above the lower edge, the temporal arch ex- tends backwards from the os frontis in a semicircular direc- tion along this bone, and terminates at the anterior point of its temporal angle. There is usually a mark in the centre of the bone pointing out the beginning of ossification. On the internal surface of the bone, running along the upper edge, is part of a groove for the longitudinal sinus, which is com- pleted when both bones are united, and frequently to the outer edge of this several little pits giving lodgement to the glandulse pacchionae. Foramen. Only one. Foramen parietale, near the upper edge for the passage of a vein to the longitudinal sinus. The only muscle attached to it is the M. temporalis, the M. occipito frontalis passes over it. Junctions. By its frontal edge with the os frontis, by its parietal edge with its fellow, by its occipital edge with the os occipitis, and by its temporo sphenoidal edge with the temporal bone behind, and the sphenoid bone before. OCCIPITAL BONE. Os Occipitis. Situation. In the posterior and under part of the skull, forming the occiput or hind-head, and part of the base of the skull. Description. Convex behind, concave before ; of an irre- gular hexagonal figure, the long axis being from above to below : the superior angle sharp, the occipital angle, angulus occipitalis, the two superior lateral angles obtuse, the parietal angles, anguli parietales ; the two inferior angles obtuse, the temporal angles, anguli temporales, and the anterior inferior angle truncated, the sphenoidal angle, angulus sphenoidalis.