Sect. II. 75 in length, and turning the shin off by following the course of the"fibres downwards and outwards behind, and downwards and outwards before. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy from the scapul'ar extremity of the clavicle, and from the acromion process of the scapula : and tendinous from the edge of the whole of the spine of the scapula. The fibres converge as they descend, and form strong bundles, which are intermixed with tendon. Insertion. Tendinous below the pectoralis major, into a rough eminence on the outer side of the os humeri, near its middle. Use. To raise the arm from the side, to bring it forwards and inwards, and to bring it backwards. Under the upper part of this muscle, between it and the capsule of the shoulder-joint, is a considerable bursa mucosa, which commonly extends forward under the acromion. It is sometimes double. b. Posterior Scapular, containing four muscles which are exposed by turning off the M. deltoides from its origin. 1. M. SUPRA-SPINATUS. Situation. In the fossa supra-spinata, and covered as well as the next muscle by a strong fascia. Origin. Fleshy from the whole of the fossa supra-spinata, from the upper part of the spine, from that part of the base which is above the spine, and from the superior costa of the scapula. It passes under the acromion, forms a strong ten- don, which passes over the capsule of the joint, and thereby strengthens it. Insertion. Into the upper and inner part of the greater tubercle of the os humeri. Use. To raise the humerus and rotate it outwards. 2. M. Infra-spinatus. Situation. In the fossa infra-spinata. Origin. Fleshy, from the dorsum below the spine, from the under surface of the spine, and from that part of the base of the scapula which is below the spine. The fibres pass ob- liquely towards a middle tendon, which passes forward, and adheres to the capsular ligament. Insertion. By the above thick and short tendon into the middle part of the greater tubercle of the os humeri. Use. To raise the arm and rotate it outwards. . Under the tendon of this muscle, between it and the sca- pula, is a considerable bursa mucosa.