211 Sect. III. 4. Rectus Capitis Lateralis. Situation. To the outer side of the last muscle, and covered by the internal jugular vein. Origin. From the fore part of the transverse process of the first vertebra of the neck. Insertion. Into the os occipitis, immediately behind the jugular fossa. Use. To bend the head a little on one side. The following are situated on the posterior part of the neck and trunk. \ b. Superficial Cervico-occipitae. Region, containing four muscles. 1. M. Splenius. Situation. On the back, and on the side of the neck : co- vered-in part by the trapezius, rhomboidei, and serratus superior posticus, which must be removed to expose it completely. Origin. From the spinous processes of the five inferior cervical, and of the four superior dorsal vertebrae, and ad- heres to the lig^mentum nuchae. At the third vertebra of the neck the splenii recede from each other, so that part of the complexus muscle is seen. Insertion. Into the transverse processes of the five supe- rior cervical vertebrae, into the posterior part of the mastoid process, and into the adjoining part of the os occipitis. It is sometimes divided into the splenius capitis, or that portion which is fixed to the head, and into the splenius colli, or that portion which is inserted into the cervical vertebrae. Use. To bring the cervical vertebrae and head backwards laterally : when both muscles act they bring the head di- rectly backwards. 2. M. Complexus. Situation. On the back of the neck, covered in part by the splenius, and extending down the back between the lon- gissimus and spinalis dorsi. Origin. From the transverse processes of the four inferior cervical, and of the seven superior dorsal vertebrae, receiving an additional fleshy slip from the spinous process of the first vertebra of the back. Insertion. Into the protuberance, and part of the arched ridge of the os occipitis. Use. To draw the head backwards and to one side j' if both act, they bring the head directly back. The portion of this muscle which is situated next to the r 2