264 Sect IV- distinct, which in some parts has nearly the consistence of cartilage. It is probably lined by a mucous membrane. Besides these, a small artery derived from the internal iliac accompanying the vas deferens, and a branch of the epigas- tric artery distributed to the cremaster muscle, are found in the cord, together with The Nerves, which are the Spermatic Plexus. OF THE TESTICLE. The testicle is of an ovoid form, flattened at the sides. It varies somewhat in size in different individuals ; is plump and large in youth, but becomes small and flaccid in age. Not unfrequently one testicle is larger than the other. It appears of a whitish colour, owing to its exterior covering. The situation of the epididymis at the outer and back part of the testicle has been already noticed. It is enclosed in the same covering of tunica vaginalis. It is of a lengthened form, adapted by its bend to the surface of the testicle; it is larger at the extremities, more especially at the upper extremity, than in the middle, where it is flattened. The upper extre- mity is called the globus major, or head; the lower, the globus minor or cauda. It is attached to the tunica albugi- nea of the testicle generally by one of its edges, and by the head and the cauda, particularly by the latter, which has a firm connection ; the tunica vaginalis dips in between, cover- ing only those parts not attached to the testicle, and forms two little pouches between the testicle and the epididymis, which at the under part is turned backwards to form the vas deferens. Tunica Albuginea. Is the proper covering of the testicle. It has been confounded with the tunica vagi- nalis, but differs entirely from that membrane in structure. With some care the tunica vaginalis may be dissected in por- tions from the albuginea, especially^ at the parts where it be- gins to be reflected, the connection being less intimate there than at other parts. It is whitish in colour, so as to give that appearance to the testicle when shining through the tunica vaginalis ; it is of moderate thickness, but extremely firm, so as to give support and protection to the delicate structure of the testicle. It appears composed of fine dense, white, shilling, tendinous-like fibres, intimately interwoven with each other without regular arrangement. The internal surface is rough and cellular, and a number of filaments pass from it through the substance of the testicle, extending from