Sect. IV. 257 resembles the salivary glands, being of a firm consistence, aild composed of lobes, and these again of smaller lobes, or lobwli, connected by a firm cellular structure. The pancreas has no other external covering than the peritonaeum, which covers it superiorly and anteriorly. Its excretory duct is membranous, white, and of inconsi- derable thickness. It arises by minute radicles, which unite and form a single canal about the size of a small quill, but which gradually becomes larger as itapproaches the duodenum. It passes through the middle of the gland, and may be dis- played by a longitudinal incision of the gland ; it is situated nearer to the anterior surface, and its course is not perfectly straight. It receives in its passage collateral branches, and before its termination a canal of less size from the Lesser Pan- creas. It then penetrates obliquely from above to below the coats of the duodenum, and usually terminates at one com- mon orifice with the ductus communis choledochus, at the lower part of the second curve of the duodenum. ยง 7- OF THE URINARY ORGANS. The dissection of these organs may be commenced by examining the situation of the kidneys, and of the vessels connected with them and the organs of generation. Kidneys. Are of a pale red colour, and are situ- ated deep in the lumbar region. They are placed one on each side of the spine, extending downwards from a point nearly opposite the eleventh rib, and connected with the diaphragm, and the psoas, quadratus, and transversalis muscles. They are embedded here in a considerable quantity of fat contained in a loose cellular texture, which has been sometimes called the Tunica Adiposa. The right kidney, lying behind the colon, is somewhat lower than the left, being placed immediately below the large lobe of the liver, which occupies more space than the spleen fills on the opposite side. The left kidney is placed below and behind the spleen, and posteriorly like- wise to the left portions of the stomach, pancreas, and colon. Through the abdomen along the spine inclined to the left side of the lumbar vertebrae the aorta is seen taking its course : on the right side of the aorta is the vena cava inferior, in which the right spermatic vein terminates, whilst the left empties itself into the left emulgent vein : on each side of the aorta, and nearly midway between the superior and infe- rior mesenteric arteries, arise the spermatic arteries. These descend over the psoae muscles. In the male they arc then s