Sect. VI. 421 in the superior niaxillary bone. It is of a conical form \ having its base inwards, its apex outwards. It is separated from The orbit; above, by a thin plate, in which is the infra or- bitar canal; below, by a thin partition from the alveoli of the molar and bicuspides teeth, so that sometimes the roots of these teeth are found to perforate the septum. It is strength- ened on the outer side by the malar projection. When this is raised, the thin layer of bone covering the sinuses, is often broken. Behind, it has the tuberosity of the superior maxilla. Its base corresponds to the nasal cavities, with which it com- municates by an opening in the middle chamber ; this appears larger than it is found to be, when the bones are separated. At the upper part of this sinus, appendices are sometimes found, which communicate with the ethmoid cells. Besides these the Ductus ad Nasum terminates in the inferior chamber, about half an inch behind the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone; its orifice has often a loose membranous fold. These cavities are all lined by a continuation of the pitui- tary membrane ; but in them it is thinner and less vascular than that which lines the cavity of the nose. ยง 3. OF THE PARTS AT THE PASSAGE OF THE FAUCES. The mouth is bounded posteriorly by the Velum Pendulum Palali, or Palatum Malle, a kind of curtain which depends ' from the edge of the ossa palati, and from the pterygoid pro- cesses of the sphenoid bone, and forms a partition between the mouth and pharynx. Above, where it is fixed to the bones, it is of considerable thickness. Its inferior part forms an unattached edge; in the middle of which the Uvula, or pap of the throat, takes its origin, and hangs over the root of the tongue. This is of a conical shape, and varies in length. The edges of Ihe velum are continued to the tongue and pharynx by two membranous and muscular folds on each side, which singly are called the Pillars, and each pair the Arches of the Fauces. At the side of the uvula these are close together, but as they descend they separate ; so that the an- terior pass obliquely, and terminate at the base of the tongue, while the posterior pass nearly perpendicularly, and are lost on the sides of the pharynx. A kind of triangular space is left by their separation, which lodges on each side the, Tonsil (Hand.