xiv INTRODUCTION. The benefit and necessity of actual dissection does not, however, stop here : it would be well for the surgeon who in- tends to be a good operator, (and such, it is to be hoped, all do who undertake the profession,) that he should dissect, in order to attain that dexterity essential to most, and praise- worthy in all, operations. Minute dissection is frequently depreciated, or at best thought necessary for those only who profess anatomy as an independent science. It certainly is to be deprecated if it excludes more important occupation, or if the preference be given to the tracing of a minute fibril of a nerve, or ramification of a blood-vessel, while the relative position of the trunks is neglected. But barring the consider- ation that no part of the body is unimportant, minute dissec- tion (as we have suggested) is of advantage in giving to the hand facility of motion and exact correspondence with the will. Neglect of dissection, of which the contempt of minute anatomy is but a symptom, is not, however, the evil of most common occurrence. It is more requisite to warn against the slovenly method of performing it, both from the imper- fect impression which it may occasion at the time, and the injurious habits it may be the means of forming. Those so erring, should recollect that the diligence of the dissector is not to be estimated by the quantity dissected, but by the knowledge acquired and retained; and that, in the necessarily slow and tedious process of dissection, theisum of such know- ledge as merits the name will be commensurate with the quan- tity of examination and the degree of observation and activity of the mind. Nor will the relative position of parts in the dead subject alone satisfy the zealous dissector, whose final aim is that of medical and surgical utility. He will extend his observations and comparison to the living body. 1 he sim- ple circumstances of handling the living or recent body, of feeling the hard parts through their coverings, of observing the form and motion of joints in this state, have been, as it would seem, too much neglected ; but their advantages may be appreciated by those who have felt the difficulty of detect-