Seel. VI. 411 Corpus Ciliare and Processus Ciliares. At the fore part of the choroid and opposite the ciliary ligament, there will be seen a black radiated ring, which is the corpus ciliare. The blackness is owing to the same dark substance as that on the choroid coat. This pigment is next to be washed off gently. Then behind the iris, and before the choroid, there will be observed a number of membranous folds, forming a ring, disposed like rays, narrower at the ex- tremities, larger in the middle, and extended from the choroid to the edge of the pupil. These radiated folds begin some way on the choroid, and are covered by the pigment, which is most abundant in the interspaces. These folds are applied upon the capsule of the vitreous humour and canal of Petit: and upon them, after the ciliary processes have been sepa- rated, is left the black pigment from the interspaces. These processes are continued over the edge of the lens; their an- terior extremities, called the processus ciliares, are unat- tached and floating in the aqueous humour of the posterior chamber. Iris. Is the membrane seen through the coruea, and on which the apparent, colour of the eye depends. It forms a circular flattened ring. The greater circumference of which is attached to the ciliary ligament, a little behind the junction of the sclerotic coat with the transparent cornea. It forms a septum in the anterior part of the eye, dividing it into two cavities. It is perforated in the centre, forming the pupil, or that part through which the rays of light are transmitted to the interior of the globe. Upon its back part is a dark-coloured pigment, which, from its resemblance in colour to the grape, was formerly called the uvea. Its co- lour depends upon this pigment; for, when it is removed, the iris seems colourless. When the pigment is cleared away, the iris seems to be made up of radiated fibres; and some anatomists have described a set of circular fibres sur- rounding its inner edge. Dr. Jacob has given a very interesting paper in the 12th vol. of the Med. Chir. Trans., upon the Structure of the Eye, in which he speaks of the Iris. He states, that, on the front of the iris, there are “ a number of irregularly shaped masses,” which he presumes answer the same purpose as the came# column# of the heart, from the convexities of which “ a number of elevated lines, equally irregular in size and number, proceed toward the pupil, and attach themselves at the distance of about a twentieth of an inch from its margin, and from this point of attachment a number of much smaller stri# converge to the central opening;” and these he believes are Similar to the chorda: lendiiiecc. By this apparatus he accounts for the dilatation of the pupil. The contraction of it, he accounts for, by what has been