184 Sect III. 2. M. Sterno-cleido Mastoideus. ' Situation. Obliquely along the fore part and side of the neck, and forms a projection, which is very distinct in the rotations of the head in the living subject. Origin. By two distinct attachments : the first, tendinous and fleshy from the upper bone of the sternum, near its junc- tion with the clavicle; the second, fleshy from the fore and upper part of the clavicle. The two heads unite a little above the clavicle to form a strong muscle, which runs obliquely upwards and outwards. Insertion. Tendinous into the mastoid process, which it surrounds, and becoming thinner into the temporal bone as fiir back as its junction with the os occipitis. Use. To turn the head on one side and bend it forwards. The attention should now be directed to the submaxillary gland, of which the situation, extent, and connections, arc to be examined. Submaxillarv Gland. Is smaller than the pa- rotid gland, and of an oblong figure. Its structure is the same as that of the parotid, and its excretory duct formed in the same way; but its parietes are extremely thin. It is si- tuated on the inside of the horizontal ramus of the inferior maxillary bone, between the bellies of the digastricus; and is continued as far back as the angle of the bone, between the mylo-liyoideus and pterygoideus interims. It i*ests partly upon the mj-lo-hyoideus, but a portion of it extends beyond the posterior edge of that muscle, and is in contact with the hyo-glossus, upon which it sends a slip which runs between the mylo-hyoideus and hyo-glossus as far as the anterior edge of the latter muscle. The duct proceeds from the deepest part of the gland near the hyo-glossus, inwards and forwards between the mylo-hyoideus and hyo-glossus, below and to the inner edge of the sublingual gland, and having reached the anterior edge of the hyo-glossus it mounts perpendicularly upwards and terminates by the side of the fraenum of the tongue, by a small and somewhat prominent orifice. The course of the duct cannot be seen till the mylo- hyoideus has been removed. The muscles which are attached to the os hyoides are next to be dissected. They are distributed into two regions, the superior and inferior hyoideal. But before we proceed with the dissection it is necessary to have a general knowledge of several parts with which they are connected. Os Hyqid.es. Is situated at the upper part of the neck, and may be felt beneath the integuments. It gives