318 Sect. V. supply the descending colon and its sigmoid flexure. There is sometimes a third left colic. 3. internal HEMORRHOIDAL, A. hcemorrhoidea interna, is the continuation of the trunk. It sends off a branch to the left to join (as has been already indicated) with a branch of the left inferior colic, and then descends upon the back part of the rectum, dividing into numerous branches, distributed to its coats, which freely communicate, and anastomose with the other branches distributed to this gut. The branches which arise in pairs from the aorta are the diaphragmatic, renal, spermatic, and lumbar. 1. diaphragmatic. A. diaphragmaticce. They arise sepa- rately, or by a common trunk, from the aorta, as soon as it enters the abdomen, often, and, according to some, most often from the cceliac. Sometimes, however, one only is given off from the cceliac. They pass upward and outward over the crura of the diaphragm, furnishing branches to the crura and gl an duke renales, and then spread into branches upon the under surface of the greater muscle, the middle of which they principally supply, anastomosing with the other branches distributed to the diaphragm. 2. renal. A .renales, emulgentes. Are branches of large size. They arise from the side of the aorta, usually nearly opposite each other, just below'the origin of the superior mesenteric. They pass outwards and a little downwards, over the body of the first or second lumbar vertebra to the sinus of the kidney, opposite to which they divide into three or four branches, which again subdivide, pass into the substance of the kidney, and ramify in the cortical part. They vary frequently in size and in number, from one to four on one or both sides, accord- ing to the size and situation of the kidney, i he right, from the situation of the aorta, is the longer of the two, and passes commonly behind the vena cava inferior. They furnish branches to the ureter, and frequently a larger branch to the renal gland, A. ccipsulciris, which besides supplying the renal gland or capsule, furnishes branches to the crus of the dia- phragm and lumbar glands. 3. spermatic. A. spermaticcc, seminales. They are of small size, but occasionally have a double origin, ihey aiise from the fore part of the aorta, a little below the lcnal aitciics, but often lower, and generally not opposite to each other. Occasionally one arises from the renal, and very rarely from any other artery. They take their course outward and down- wards on the psoas muscles, behind the pcritoiueum and