24 Sect. I. Connection. With the front of the cuneiform bone. 1 he muscles attached to it are two; viz. the M. flexor carpi ulnaris & abductor minimi digiti. THE TRAPEZIUM. Os Trapezium. Description. Said to resemble the mathematical figure of that name, but of an irregular form ; it is remarkable for a deep groove on its fore part, through which the tendon of the M. flexor carpi radialis passes ; it has four articular surfaces; one concave above, for the scaphoid bone; one on the inside, for the trapezoid bone; a large one on the outside, concave from above downwards, and convex from before to behind for the metacarpal bone of the thumb; and a small flat one below, for part of the metacarpal bone of the fore finger, be- tween that for the metacarpal bone of the thumb and that for the trapezoid bone. Connection. Above to the scaphoid, on the outside to the metacarpal bone of the thumb, on the inside to the trapezoid, and below to the metacarpal bone of the fore finger. The muscles attached to it are four ; viz. M. flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis, abductor pollicis, abductor indicis & ex • tensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. THE TRAPEZOID BONE. Os Trapezoides. Description. The trapezoid bone, like the preceding, is also said to resemble the mathematical figure ; it is, how- ever, of a very irregular shape, being broadest and smooth- est behind, with its lower edge rounded : it has four arti- cular surfaces, one above, for the scaphoid; one on the out- side, for the os trapezium; one on the inside, for the os magnum; and one below, for part of the metacarpal bone of the fore finger. Connection. Above with the scaphoid, below with the me- tacarpal bone of the fore finger, on the outside with the os trapezium, and on the inside with the os magnum. The only muscle attached to this bone is the M. flexor brevis pollicis. THE LARGE BONE. Os Magnum. Description. This is the largest bone of the carpus, from whence it derives its name ; it has six articular surfaces, it is sometimes called os caj)itatum, on account of the head or large hemispherical articular surface at the upper part,, which forms a ball to be received into a socket formed in the first row of the carpal bones by the scaphoid and lunar bones, which tends much to strengthen the junction of the parts of the carpus