Sect. V. 345 off a branch below, which sometimes arises separately, passes through the transverse process of the seventh ceivical veite- bra, and joins with the trunk. The vertebral vein in its course gives off branches, which pass between the muscles and other branches that communicate through the vertebral foramina with the vertebral sinus. It terminates by branches to the muscles under the occiput, and sometimes one branch passes through the posterior condyloid foramen to communicate with the lateral sinus. 5. external jugular. V. jugidaris externa. It arises on the outer side of the internal jugular, sometimes by two branches which soon unite. It passes upward from behind the clavicle behind the sterno-mastoid muscle, embedded in cellular membrane towards the edge of that muscle; is con- tinued upon the sterno-mastoid, becoming more superficial, and covered only by the platysma myoides and skin : after which it crosses obliquely the upper part of the muscle, and is continued to the angle of the lower jaw. Here it sometimes terminates by an anastomotic branch with the internal jugular vein ; but sometimes it is of large size, and accompanies the external carotid artery through the parotid gland, and near the neck of the lower jaw divides into the internal maxillary and temporal veins. These veins again divide, and are dis- tributed like the arteries of the same name. It gives off a. Branches behind the sterno-mastoid, which accompany the scapular and posterior cervical branches of the subclavian artery. /3. Sub-cutaneous branches to the neck. 7. Posterior aural vein; which is distributed with the artery of the same name. c. Anastomotic branch. A short but consider- able branch, which passes deep under the parotid gland, and forms a communication with the internal jugular vein. 6. internal jugular. V. jugularis interna. Is a vein of considerable size. It furnishes most of the branches of the cranium and face. It comes off from the subclavian vein, nearly opposite to the extremity of the clavicle ; then ascends nearly vertically in the neck, as high as the lacerated foramen of the base of the skull. In its course it is situated to the outer side of the carotid artery, which it in part covers, and likewise the pneumo-gastric nerve. It has otherwise the same relative position as the carotid. At the lower part of the neck it forms a considerable sinus or enlargement. , At the upper part of the larynx it gives off the superior thyroideal, the facial, the LINGUAL, the rHARYNGEAL and