Sect. II. _ 113 a. Outer Crural, containing one muscle. M. Tensor Vagin.® Femoris. Situation. On the outside of the thigh, immediately below the superior anterior spine of the ilium. Origin. Tendinous from the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium externally, extends downwards and back- wards. Insertion. A little below the trochanter major into the inside of the fascia lata, i Use. To render the fascia tense, and to assist in the ab- duction of the thigh and its rotation inwards. o t \ After dissecting this muscle the fascia lata may be removed to display the b. Anterior Crural, containing five muscles. 1. M. Sartorius. Situation. Superficial; it is a thin flat muscle which passes inwards and downwards across the thigh. Origin. Tendinous from the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium. It passes at first over the tendon of the rectus, goes inwards and downward over the adductor longus and magnus, and descends below on the inner side of the thigh. In the middle, third of the thigh it covers the femoral vessels : a knowledge of its relative situation is therefore extremely important, and in dissecting it the attachments to the parts beneath should be left untouched. Insertion. By a broad thin tendon, which is expanded on the inner surface of the tibia near the lower part of its tubercle. Use. To bend the leg obliquely inwards, or to bring it across the other. The principal vessels of the lower extremity take their course for some way on the anterior part of the thigh ; they then descend along the inner part of the thigh, covered by the sartorius muscle, and passing backwards are situated in the ham. At the lower edge of the popliteus muscle, they divide; one set is placed on the anterior part of the leg near to, and on, the outer side of the tibia; while those, placed posteriorly, take the course of each side of the leg, pass close by the tibia and fibula, and terminate ultimately in the toes. 2. M. Rectus. Situation. In front of the thigh, and to the outside of the upper part of the sartorius. Origin. Tendinous by two strong attachments ; the one i