Sect. III. 200 Dissect the course and termination of the Trachea. Begins below the cricoid cartilage, extends through the middle of the neck to the upper and posterior part of the chest, and terminates about the second or third dorsal vertebra, by dividing into the right and left bronchus. Behind it is placed the oesophagus : before it are the sterno-hyoidei and sterno-thyroidei muscles. To the sides are the carotid arteries, jugular veins, &c.: above, it is surrounded by the thyroid gland. The trachaea is convex before and flattened behind. The Bronchi separate from each other and pass to each lung, which they penetrate about the middle of the inner side. The left bronchus is somewhat less capacious than the right, but is longer, from the situation of the heart. Within the substance of the lungs they divide and subdivide into branches, called bronchia, which take different directions, are distributed to all parts of the lungs, and become at last so minute that thev cannot be traced. 9/ Remove the lungs and heart in one mass, and dissect the trachaea and its bronchi, the great vessels of the heart, and the bronchial glands, for the more convenient examination of their structure. The trachaea is formed of cartilages of a horse-shoe form, being about two- thirds of a ring. They vary in number, but are generally about eighteen ; are very elastic ; broad, convex, and strong, anteriorly; but thinner, poste- riorly. They vary likewise in size and form ; and it is not unfrequent for two or more to run into one. The first cartilage is generally the largest, and is often united with the cricoid, or next cartilage below it. In the ramifications of the bronchia, the cartilages are at first annular; they soon, however, become imperfect, of an irregular figure, and at length are lost. An elastic ligamentous substance connects the rings of the trachaea, and occupies the space between the ends of the Cartilages. This is continued into the bronchia, and seems to be the principal constituent of the air-tube, where the cartilages become defective, but grows thin and indistinct in the minute branches. The extremities of the rings are also connected by transverse bundles of muscular fibres, situated beneath the ligamentous tunic; and there appear likewise to be some muscular fibres, which near their extremities pass ob- liquely from one ring to the other. The internal surface of the air-tube is lined by a mucous membrane. This probably extends into the minutest ramifications of the bronchia. Poste- riorly, it is disposed in longitudinal folds, formed by longitudinal bands, which do not disappear when the membrane is separated. This membrane is highly vascular, as is proved by injection, and extremely sensible. It is constantly lubricated by a mucus, poured forth by small round glands, of a reddish or yellowish colour; most of which are situated posteriorly, between the muscular and fibrous coat, and in the cellular membrane about the