292 Sect. V. ft. Glandular branches. (R. glandulares.) Dis- tributed to the submaxillary gland. 7. Submental branch. (R. submentalis.) It is given off near the edge of the jaw, along which it is continued between the attachment of the mylo-hyoideus and digastricus muscles. It furnishes branches to both muscles, and is then continued upwards over the jaw to supply the muscles and skin of the lower lip, and anastomose with branches of the coronary and dental arteries. S. Small branches. Distributed to the masseter, and to the muscles and skin of the cheek and lips. g. Inferior coronary artery of the lip. (A. coro- naria labii inferioris.) It passes along the under lip, covered by the membrane of the mouth ; and, after furnishing branches to the adjacent parts, anastomoses with the opposite branch of the same name. This branch frequently varies both in origin and size. It sometimes arises higher, and is a branch of the superior coronary. Sometimes it is very small, and is wanting altogether on one side, in which case the opposite one is proportionably larger. Superior coronary artery of the lip. (A. coro- naria labii superioris.) Is larger than the former. It passes along the edge of the upper lip, furnishes branches to the ad- jacent parts, and inosculates with the opposite artery. The course of the coronary vessels is extremely tortuous. From the superior coronary there are branches (R. nasales septi) sent upwards to the point and partition of the nose. ■>]. Branches. Distributed to the nose, cheek, parts about the inner corner of the eye, and middle of the forehead j‘ and by these branches the facial artery terminates. The internal branch is the ascending pharyngeal. 4. ascending pharyngeal. A. pharyngea adscendens, inferior. Is the smallest branch of the carotid. It arises from the beginning of the external carotid, sometimes at the part where the common carotid divides, occasionally from the root of the internal, and not unfrequently from the occipital. It ascends in the same direction as the external carotid, be- tween that vessel and the pharynx. It then divides into branches distributed to the constrictores pharyngis, sending off likewise a branch which passes through the lacerated open- ing of the base of the skull, and is dispersed upon the dura mater. The posterior branches are the occipital and the posterior aural.