Sect. T. 25 to each other; on the outside, the large hone has an articu- lar surface for the trapezoid, and on the inner, for the unci- form bone; below, it has an irregularly concave surface for the metacarpal bone of the middle finger, the inner edge of which is pared off as it were to articulate it with a small portion of the metacarpal bone of the fore finger; and a similar but much smaller articular surface is found on the posterior and inner point, for the metacarpal bone of the ring finger. Connection. Above with the scaphoid and lunar, on the outside with the trapezoid, and on the inner side with the unciform bone, below in the middle with the metacarpal bone of the middle, on the outside with that of the fore, and on the inside with that of the ring finger. The only muscle attached to this bone is the M. flexor brevis pollicis. THE UNCIFORM BONE. Os Unciforme. Description. The unciform bone has a remarkable hook- like process on its fore and inner edge which curves out- wards towards the root of the thumb ; it has four articular surfaces ; one large above and to the inner side, for the cunei- form; one on the outside, for the os magnum; and two below divided by a ridge, the outer smaller one for part of the meta- carpal bone of the ring finger, and the other for the metacar- pal bone of the little finger. Connection. Above with the cuneiform, on the outside with the large bone, and below with the metacarpal bones of the ring and little fingers. The muscles attached to this bone are three ; viz. the M. flexor brevis pollicis, f. proprius, & abductor minimi di- giti. THE METACARPAL BONES. Ossa Metacarpi. Situation. Below the carpus and above the fingers, form- ing the back and palm of the hand. Description. Of the metacarpal bones there are five, each of which is divided into its upper part, or basis ; middle or body, corpus ; and lower part or head, caput, which forms the knuckle and projects when the fingers are bent; upon the bases are articular surfaces for the carpal bones; the bodies behind are sharp above and expanded below towards the knuckles, before they are expanded above and sharp below for the purpose of giving room for the M. interossci; the heads of all, except that of the thumb, are convex from before to behind and from side to side, having large articular sur- faces for the first row of the phalanges of the fingers; and