101 Sect. II. § 2, OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. The shoulder joint, consisting of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and the head of the os humeri, is surrounded by thick and strong muscles, which more especially contribute to give figure to this joint externally; of these the deltoid is the prin- cipal, which covers the articulation, and gives, in a muscular person, a well marked rotundity to the shoulder. From this circumstance, deformity in consequence of accident is not so easily detected, and the parts which form the articulation cannot be readily handled, so as to determine the nature and degree of any injury which may have occurred. The parts about the articulation, which may be felt when surrounded by the soft parts, are the acromion, and less distinctly, the cora- coid process of the scapula, and the head of the os humeri. The ligaments belonging to the shoulder joint are two, the capsular and the glenoid, but the tendon of the long head of the biceps answers somewhat the purpose of a ligament, in restraining the motions of the head of the os humeri, like the round liga- ment in the hip joint. 1. Capsular Ligament. Is in the form of a loose bag, which is attached above to the circumference of the glenoid cavity, and below to the neck of the os humeri, and encloses the head of that bone. It is made up of fibres, closely interwoven with each other. It is strongest above, and thin- nest on the inner side. It is strengthened above by the ten- don of the supra-spinatus, and behind by those of the infra- spinatus, and teres minor muscles. At the under and fore part, at its edge, is a small aperture for the passage of the tendon of the long head of the biceps, and the capsular liga- ment sends off a process to enclose the tendon in its descent. 2. Glenoid Ligament. Already described. The Synovial Membrane lines the capsular ligament, and is continued upon the articular surfaces of the scapula and os humeri. A process is extended into the groove for the tendon of the biceps, which is then reflected upwards round the tendon. Practical Points. Fractures connected with this joint:—of the acromion—of the neck of the scapula—of the neck of the os humeri. Dislocations:—Of the os humeri into the axilla—under the clavicle—on to the dorsum of the scapula.