Sect. V. 351 CHAPTER IV. Of the Absorbents. The Absorbent System consists of glands and vessels. In the following description we have adopted the method of first describing the glands, and afterwards the distribution of the vessels in the different divisions of the body. The absorbent vessels accompany for the most part the ramifications of the blood-vessels, especially those of the veins ; and, therefore, a reference to these will in most instances indicate the distri- bution of the former. From the number of absorbent vessels, it would be both difficult and unprofitable to trace them singly, and they will, therefore, be described in sets. The main trunks and termination of the absorbents, formed by the thoracic duct and the trunk of termination on the right side, will be first spoken of; and afterwards, the glands and vessels of the head and neck, of the upper extremity, of the lower extremity, and of the trunk and viscera, will be successively described. The absorbent vessels take their course in almost all parts of the body, in a superficial and more numerous set, and in a deep-seated set, accompanying the arteries. We have not adopted the division of the absorbents into lacteal and lymphatic vessels, as the distinction seems to have no real foundation nor practical utility. ยง 1. TRUNKS OF THE ABSORBENT VESSELS. All the absorbent vessels of the body terminate in two trunks, which pour their contents into the venous system at two points j namely, at the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian veins on each side. By far the greater num- ber terminate in the trunk on the left side, called the thoracic duct. It receives the absorbents of the left half of the head and neck, of the left upper extremity, of both lower extremi- ties, of the left half of the chest and its contents, and of the viscera of the abdomen, except some from the liver. There- fore, those which terminate in the trunk on the right side, are those only of the right half of the head and neck, of the