Sect. II. 85 . Insertion. Into the back part of the phalanges of the four fingers by a tendinous .expansion. Use. To extend the fingers. There is-frequently a separate slip, called M. Extensor Digiti Minimi Proprius, which arises from the ulna, and passes to the little finger. A bursa is situated at the wrist, for the tendon of this muscle, which sends out a synovial sheath with each of the tendons, as far as the roots of the fingers. cl. Posterior Deep Antibrachiae, containing four mus- cles, to see which, it will be necessary to remove the E. carpi ulnaris & digitorum communis; they will then be found placed next each other in the following order, the first de- scribed being the outermost, and the last the innermost. ' 1. M. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis, Abductor pollicis longus. Origin. Fleshy from the upper, outer, and back part of the ulna, from the interosseous ligament, and from the middle of the inner and posterior surface of the radius. It passes over the latter bone, and terminates in a strong tendon, which passes through a groove in the outside of its base, and is confined by the annular ligament. InsertioJi. Into the os trapezium, and upper and back part of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Use. To extend the metacarpal bone of the thumb out- wards. The tendon of this muscle is surrounded by a sheath of synovial membrane. 2. M. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis, Extensor brevis minor. Origin. Fleshy from the back part of the ulna, and from the interosseous ligament, and descends connected with the former muscle. It terminates in a slender tendon, which passes under the dorsal ligament of the wrist with the former. Insertion. Into the extremity of the first bone of the thumb, and a part may be traced as far as the second bone. Use. To extend the first joint of the thumb. 3. M. Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis, Extensor major longus. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy from the back part of the ulna, and from the interosseous ligament. It sends out a long tendon, which passes through a groove on the back of the