294 Sect. V. external carotid before the ear, through the upper part of the parotid gland, and over the root of the zygoma. It passes to a short distance upwards, immediately under the skin, along the margin of the hair, and divides into two considerable branches, an anterior and posterior. It sometimes divides close to the zygoma. It gives off «. Branches to the parotid gland. /3. Branches, (R. masscterici,) which are distri- buted to the masseter muscle. 7. Transverse of the face. (A. transversalis faciei.) It arises near the division of the external carotid. It is some- times, though rarely, a branch of the external carotid. It takes it course transversely over the masseter muscle, and accompanies the duct of the parotid gland. It distributes branches to the parotid gland and cheek, and communicates with the facial and infra-orbitar arteries. 8, Deep temporal. It comes off near the zygoma, penetrates the aponeurosis of the temporalis, and ramifies within the muscle, forming communications with the deep temporal branches of the internal maxillary. e. Anterior auricular branches. Come off near the former, and are distributed upon the external ear and meatus. £. Anterior, or temporo-frontal branch. It passes obliquely forwards, and divides into numerous branches; some of which are continued along the upper part of the fore- head, are distributed to the skin, occipito-frontalis and orbi- cularis palpebrarum, and anastomose with branches of the supra-orbitar and facial. The rest pass upwards towards the vertex, and anastomose with the opposite artery and the tem- poro-occipital. -i]. Posterior, or temporo-occipital branch. Passes obliquely upwards and backwards on the parietal bone. It distributes numerous branches to the side and upper part of the head, forming numerous anastomoses with the anterior branch of the opposite temporal, and with the occipital artery. Many small vessels from the arteries on the head pene- trate the substance of the bones. 8. internal maxillary. A. maxillaris interna. Is larger than the temporal. It passes off from the external carotid where the latter is covered by the parotid gland. It takes its course first inwards and forwards behind the neck of the lower jaw, then inwards between the pterygoid muscles ; it ascends, forming several turns, penetrates the pterygoideus