26 Sect. I. immediately above the head is a groove for the attachment of the capsular ligament. They differ much from each other, particular that Of the Thumb, which very much resembles the first pha- lanx of the fingers : it is the shortest of all the meta- carpal bones, and placed obliquely on the carpus, instead of perpendicularly like the other metacarpal bones; above it is the same breadth throughout, smooth behind, rounded from side to side before, and forming a sharp edge on either side ; the articular surface on its base is much expanded, it is con- vex laterally, and concave from before to behind, the anterior lip being much produced; its head is slightly convex from before to behind, but flat laterally. Connection. With the trapezium above. Of the First Finger. The basis of this bone has three arti- cular surfaces divided by two edges, the middle and larger for the os trapezoides; the outer and smaller for the os trape- zium; and the inner for the os magnum ; immediately below the articular surface for the os magnum, is a plane surface on the side, for the metacarpal bone of'the second finger. Connection. With the trapezium, trapezoid, and large bone above, and with the metacarpal bone of the second finger on the in side.- Of the Second Finger. The basis of this bone has an arti- cular surface in the middle for the os magnum ; one on the outer side of the base, concave for the base of the metacarpal bone of the first finger, and another on the inside for that of the third finger. Connection. With the os magnum above, with the meta- carpal bone of the first finger on the outside, and of the third finger on the inside. Of the Third Finger. The basis of this has two articular surfaces, a very small one at the upper and outer part for the os magnum, and a large one on the upper and inner part for the os unciforme ; on each side of the base are articular sur- faces for the metacarpal bones of the second and fourth fingers. Connection. Above with the large and unciform bone ; on the outside, with the metacarpal bone of the second, and on the inside with that of the fourth. Of the Fourth Finger. The base has an articular surface for the os unciforme above, and on the outside another for the metacarpal bone of the third finger. Connection. With the os unciforme above, and the meta- carpal bone of the third finger on the outside. The muscles attached to the metacarpal bones are fifteen; viz. M. interossei, (seven) common to all except that of the thumb;