58 Sect. I. the middle anteriorly, the processus azygos of the os sphe- noides; on either side of which and rather behind, are the pterygoid processes of the same bone, divided into two plates by the fossae pterygoideae; and to their outer side a flat space for the origins of the M. pterygoidei externi; behind the pro- cessus azygos the basilar process of the os occipitis ; on its sides, the anterior points of the petrous portions of the ossa temporum; further out the spinous processes of the os sphenoides, and to their outside the glenoid cavities of the ossa temporum, bounded laterally, before by the roots of the zygomatic processes, and behind by the auditory processes of the same bones. The Foramina in this division are Foramina ovalia. Foramina spinosa. Foramina carotica. The above seen within the skull,the following not seen, viz.: Foramina auditiva externa, the beginning of the external auditory passage. Foramina glenoidea, for the passage of the N. chorda tym- pani and the tendon of the M. externus mallei. Openings of the eustachian tubes from the tympanum to the throat. 3. Portio occipitalis, bounded before by the styloid pro- cesses of the ossa temporum, behind by the os occipitis. It lias in the middle, the foramen magnum ; to the fore part of which are the processus condyloides ; on their outer side, a ridge for the attachmentof the M. recti laterales capitis: further out, and rather before, the styloid processes of the ossa tempo- rum, surrounded by their vaginal processes ; behind which, and rather more outward, the mamillary processes, having at their roots the digastric pits ; the os occipitis marked be- hind the foramen magnum, by the inferior and superior trans- verse arches, the spine, protuberance and pits. The Foramina in this division are Foramina stylo mastoulea, for the passage of the facial nerves from the stylo mastoid canals. . Foramina mastoidea, for the passage of veins to the lateral sinuses. The above are not seen on the inside; but the following are, Foramen magnum. Foramina lacera basis cranii posteriora. Foramina condyloidea anteriora. Foramina condyloidea posteriora.