Sect. IV. 241 The small intestines are attached to the parietes by means of the ' Mesentery. It is composed of two layers of peritonaeum, which pass off from the posterior wall of the abdomen in an oblique line, from about the second lumbar vertebra to the iliac fossa. This attachment is straight and narrow; that towards the intestines is convex, broad, and coextensive with their length. The mesentery is narrow above, broad in the middle, and then becomes again gradu- ally narrower towards the union of the ilium and ccecum. The two layers, like those of the other doublings of the peri- tonaeum, are connected by a somewhat loose cellular mem- brane, containing some fat; and between them are situated the absorbent vessels and glands, and the blood-vessels of the intestines. Large Intestines. Coscum. So named from its forming a pouch or blind extremity. Is the first of the large intestines, occupying nearly the whole of the hollow of the right ilium, and attached to the iliacus muscle. It is situated below the colon, with which its superior part is continuous, and comprises all that portion which is below the entrance of the ilium. In this situation it is firmly fixed by the peritonaeum. Colon. It retains the Greek name, signifying intestine, and meaning any thing hollow. It passes upwards in the right lumbar region as high as the liver and gall-blad- der; it then changes its direction and passes transversely across the abdomen, over to the left side; it descends in the left lumbar region as low as the left iliac fossa; it then forms a turn, of an S figure, and at the base of the sacrum becomes rectum. From thus changing its direction it has been divided into four portions:—\. Ascending Colon, 2. Transverse Arch of the Colon, 3. Descending Colon, 4. Sigmoid Flexure of the Colon. 1. The Ascending Colon is situated in the right lumbar region above the coecum, below the gall-bladder; it is covered anteriorly by peritonaeum, and is connected pos- teriorly with the quadratus lumborum and right kidney, by a quantity of cellular membrane. Sometimes, however, it is more loosely connected by the peritonaeum passing completely round, and being continued between it and the parietes ; in which case, the portion forming the attachment is called the Right Lumbar Mesocolon, or the right ligament of the colon : this fold is continuous above with the transverse mesocolon, and terminates below behind the coecum. u