288 Sect. V. Sometimes, though rarely, the aorta bends hack over the right bronchus, accompanied by varieties in the origin of the arteries from the arch. It sometimes divides into two trunks, one of which forms the descending aorta, and the other furnishes the branches to the head and upper extremities. 3. Thoracic Aorta. The aorta whilst descend- ing in the thorax is placed in the posterior mediastinum. It lias, to the left, the left pleura: to the right, the oesophagus, vena azygos, and thoracic duct: anteriorly, first the left bronchus, and then the oesophagus and pericardium : behind, the dorsal vertebrae. 4. Abdominal Aorta. The aorta in the abdo- men, where passing on the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, is situated more nearly on the median plane than the thoracic aorta on the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae. To the right side of the abdominal aorta is placed the vena cava inferior. It rests behind upon the vertebral column, is covered anteriorly and to the left by the peritonaeum; and it terminates opposite the fourth or fifth lumbar vertebra by dividing into the com- mon iliac arteries. The division is sometimes higher. The arteries taking their origin from the aorta may be dis- tinguished into those arising from the 1. Ascending aorta. 2. Arch of the aorta. 3. Thoracic aorta. 4. Abdominal aorta. 5. Termination of the aorta. ยง 1. BRANCHES FROM THE ASCENDING AORTA. Are the coronary arteries which are described with the structure of the heart (p. 206.) ยง 2. BRANCHES FROM THE ARCH OF THE AORTA. These supply the head and neck, the upper extremities, and in part the chest. They are three in number, the Unnamed Trunk, from which the Right Common Carotid and Right Subclavian Arteries arise, the Left Common Carotid and the Left Subclavian Artery. The arteria innominata arises foremost and most to the , right, the left carotid in the middle and somewhat farther back close to the unnamed trunk, and the left subclavian at a short distance from it, the most posteriorly and to the left. The arteries do not always arise in this regular manner from the arch of the aorta. They vary occasionally both in situation and in number, the