2G0 - Sect. IV. situated one on each kidney, at the upper and inner part, and surmounting it like the comb of a cock. They vary in figure, are flattened, sometimes oval, more commonly like a wedge, broad below, and hollowed in adaptation to the kidney, and edged above. They are larger in the foetus than in the adult. They are usually of a dark yellow colour, covered anteriorly by peritonaeum ; and, besides their connection to the kidney, are attached to the diaphragm, the right to the liver, the left to the spleen and pancreas. Their surface is furrowed, so as to have the appearance of a conglomerate gland ; and, within, they have a cavity, be- tween the anterior and posterior parietes, which may be in- flated, and contains a yellowish brown or bloody coloured fluid; but these circumstances are not always distinctly noticeable. § 8. OF THE DIAPHRAGM. Diaphragm. Septum Transversum. Situation. Forms a broad thin muscular partition be- tween the cavities of the thorax and abdomen. It is broad at the sides and narrow in the middle; is concave below and convex above; and is considerably higher before than be- hind, so that the cavity of the chest reaches down posteriorly behind the upper part of the cavity of the abdomen. It is usually divided into a superior or greater muscle, and an inferior or less muscle. a. Superior or Greater Muscle of the Dia- phragm. Origin. By fleshy slips from the cartilago ensiformis and from the cartilages of the seventh and all the inferior ribs. From these attachments the fibres radiate from the circum- ference towards the centre. ■ Insertion. Into the middle or cordiform tendon. This tendon in shape somewhat resembles a trefoil leaf, and is formed by tendinous fibres running in different directions, and interwoven with each other. On the right side of the tendon is a rounded triangular opening for the passage of the vena cava inferior from the abdomen into the chest. b. Inferior or Less Muscle of the Di.Xphragm. Called also the Appendix. Is situated on the lumbar vertebrae. Origin. By four heads from the three uppermost lumbar vertebrae, of which the fleshy bellies form the crura of the