295 Sect. V. externus, passes behind the tuberosity of the superior maxilla in a horizontal direction, and terminates behind the orbit by dividing. It gives off a. Branches of small size to the ear. ft. S'pheno-spinal, or middle artery of the dura mater. (A. spheno-rspinalis, durse matris media vel magna.) It passes directly upwards. It distributes branches to the ad- jacent muscles, to the pharynx, and other parts near it. It is then continued through the foramen spiuosum of the sphenoid bone, giving off some twigs to the bones and tympanum of the ear, and having entered the cranium, branches to the lower part of the dura mater. It next divides into two branches ; the anterior, which is the more considerable, passes upwards and forwards to the anterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone, where it is lodged in the groove or canal at that part, and then divides into numerous branches which spread on the surface of the dura mater. The posterior as- cends on the parietal bone and squamous portion of the tem- poral bone, and divides also into branches. The ramifications of these vessels are lodged in grooves in the bones. 7. Inferior maxillary branch. (A. maxillaris, alveolaris, dentalis inferior.) It passes downwards, between the pterygoidei, to which it furnishes branches, to the infe- rior maxillary foramen. After having passed through this opening, it is continued through the canal of the inferior maxilla, distributing branches to the teeth and substance of the bones; then passes out through the mental foramen, and terminates in branches which anastomose with branches of the facial, and supply in part the chin and under lip. b. Temporal branches. (R. temporales profundi.) Are distributed to the temporal muscle. e. Masseterine. (R. massetericus.) Is a branch distributed to the masseter. Buccal. (R. buccalis.) Is a branch distri- buted to the buccinator, and to the soft parts of the cheek. 7. Pterygoideal branches. (R. pterygoidei.) Are distributed to the pterygoidei muscles. 0. Alveolar branch. (A. alveolaris, maxillaris, superior.) It arises behind the antrum, and takes its course around the superior maxilla, distributing branches to the teeth of the upper jaw, the substance of the bone, gums, and surrounding soft parts. d Infra-orbitar branch. (A. infra-orbitaris.) Arises behind the orbit, passes through the infra-orbitar cabal, and distributes branches in its course to the orbit, antrum, sub- stance of the jaw, and the front teeth. It comes out at the