Sect. V. 361 t r branches, like those of the former, terminate in the thoracic duct. The third set is formed by branches from the left lobe, its trunks pass to the left lateral ligament, join with ab- sorbents from the stomach, and terminate in the thoracic duct before it has quitted the abdomen. The superficial absorbents of the under surface are less nu- merous ; those of the right and left lobe usually unite to form one set. They all anastomose with the superficial of the upper surface, and with the deep-seated, and form trunks, which are collected in the porta, descend with the hepatic vessels, and join with the absorbent trunks of the intestines. The deep-seated absorbents accompany the blood-vessels and biliary ducts, are collected into trunks which pass out at the porta of the liver, join with the superficial of the under surface of the liver, with those of the stomach, spleen, and pancreas, and unite at the root of the mesentery with the ab- sorbents of the intestines to form the middle root of the thoracic duct. ยง 6. ABSORBENT GLANDS, AND VESSELS OF THE CHEST. 1. Glands of the Chest. They consist of those of the parietes, of the mediastinum, and of the lungs. a. Glands of the parietes. They are small and irregular, both in number and situation. The greater num- ber are placed between the layers of the intercostal muscles, and at the sides- of the vertebrae on the heads of the ribs. There are some few in the course of the internal mammary artery. ft. Glands of the mediastinum. Those of the posterior mediastinum are small, but often numerous. They are situated in the course of the aorta and oesophagus. Those of the anterior mediastinum are about eight or ten in num- ber, and are situated upon the anterior surface of the pericardium. 7. Bronchial glands. They are situated about the divisions of the bronchia, and are found to extend with their branches into the substance of the lungs. Their size and number are considerable. The largest are placed be- tween the divisions of the trachfea. At an early period of life they are of a reddish colour; in the adult they assume a brownish hue, and as age advances become black. 2. Absorbent Vessels of the Chest. They consist of