192 Sect. III. The other muscles of the pharynx, consisting of the three constrictors, may be dissected by cutting through the trachea and oesophagus, and then drawing them upwards and forwards, so as to bring into view the back part of the 'pharynx, the cavity of which should be previously stuffed. 2. M. Constrictor Pharyngis Inferior. Situation. Just above the termination of the pharynx in the oesophagus. Origin. From the sides of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. The superior fibres run obliquely upwards, covering the under part of the next muscle j the inferior fibres run more trans- versely. Insertion. By joining with its fellow at a white line, which is continued along the middle at the back part of the pharynx. Use. To compress that part of the pharynx which it covers, and to raise it a little upwards. 3. M. Constrictor Pharyngis Medius. Situation. Above the last muscle. Origin. From the appendix and cornu of the os hyoides, and from the ligament which connects the cornu to the thyroid cartilage. The fibres run obliquely upwards, cover a considerable part of the superior constrictor, and terminate in a point. Insertion. Into the cuneiform process of the os occipitis, and is connected with its fellow at a white line on the middle of the back part of the pharynx. Use. To compress the pharynx, and to draw it and the os hyoides upwards. 4. M. Constrictor Pharyngis Superior. Situation. Between the last pair of muscles. Origin. From the cuneiform process of the os occipitis, from the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone, and from both jaws near the last dentes molares. Between the jaws it intermixes with the buccinator muscle, and is connected with the root of the tongue and palate. Insertion. By joining with its fellow at a white line in the middle of the back part of the pharynx. Use. To raise the pharynx. Notwithstanding the dissection of this region has been given here, it is much the best plan to leave it till the muscles of the neck have been dissected ; the head can then be sepa- rated from the first cervical vertebra, and the form of the pharynx, with the attachment of its muscles, can be better seen.