334 Sect V. minimi digiti, along which it runs to the base of the metatar- sal bone of the least toe; it then bends inwards, and is con- tinued between the arch of the metatarsus and the adductor pollicis as far as the metatarsal bone of the great toe, where it anastomoses with the deep branch of the anterior tibial, forming the plantar arch, arcus plantaris. It furnishes Branches to the muscles of the middle and plantar regions, and forms anastomoses on the outer side of the foot with branches of the anterior tibial and peroneal arteries. 3. Plantar Arch. Arcus Plantaris. a. Branch to the least toe, (A. digitalis plan- taris digiti quinti,) which passes along its outer side, as far as its extremity, distributing inconsiderable branches in its course. /3. Plantar digital branches. (A. digitales plan- tares.) Generally three in number, which come off from the fore part of the arch, pass forwards to the interstices of the toes, namely, to those of the second and third, third and fourth, and fourth and fifth, and divide each into two branches, one of which passes along the outer side of one toe, and the other along the inner side of the adjacent toe. They are continued as far as their extremities, where they anastomose, furnish- ing small branches in their course, partly distributed to the toes, and partly communicating with the dorsal branches. 7. Plantar digital branches of the great toe, and inner side of the toe next to it, present very frequent varieties. Most commonly they come off by a branch detached from the deep branch of the anterior tibial, where it joins with the plantar arch, which then sends one branch along the inner side of the great toe, and one to the interstice between the great toe and toe next to it, and divides into a branch to each. Sometimes they are supplied by the inner plantar, and some- times entirely by the plantar arch. 8. Perforating. (A. perforantes.) Small branches from the fore and upper part of the arch to the interossei and transverse muscles, and metatarsus, which send branches be- tween the metatarsal bones to anastomose with branches of the anterior tibial on the dorsum of the foot.