253 Sect. IV. communicate by a common trunk : the one formed of the veins which returrl the blood from the chylopoietic viscera, from tlie spleen, pancreas, stomach, and intestines, called the vena portae abdominalis; the other, called the vena portae hepatica, consisting of the ramifications of the trunk in the substance of the liver, to which they are distributed like arteries. The trunk of the vena portae abdominalis is formed more immediately by the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. It passes upwards and to the right from the vertebral column to the porta, being about four or five inches in length: is at first placed behind the right extremity of the pancreas and duodenum, afterwards within Glisson’s capsule. At the porta it bifurcates, the branches forming a canal lying horizontally in the porta, each making nearly a right angle with the trunk. Of these branches, the right, which is the shorter, but larger of the two, passes to the right lobe, and ramifies in its substance. The other (the lesser, but longer-) is continued to the left as far as the great fissure, unites with the ligamentous remains of the umbilical vein and ductus venosus, and is distributed to the left lobe. The ramifica- tions of the vena portae take a horizontal direction. The ultimate divisions of the vena portae, it has been inferred from injections, anastomose with the radicles of the biliary ducts and hepatic veins. It is found also that minute injections pass into the hepatic arteries, and if thrown into anyone order of vessels, find their way into the rest. The branches of the vena portae are accompanied by those of the hepatic arteries, veins, biliary ducts, and lym- phatics ; and they are all included and connected by a dense cellular struc- ture. The vena portae, like the rest of the abdominal veins, differs from the general venous structure by the greater thickness of its coats and the absence of valves. Hepatic Artery. Is a branch of the coeliac, subdividing into two principal branches ; these pass into either lobe at the porta, again subdivide, and are continued with the ramifications of the vena portae. Hepatic Veins. Take their origin from all parts of the sub- stance of the liver by capillary extremities, which communicate with the hepatic arteries and vena portie. They unite into larger and less numerous branches, and terminate by three or four principal trunks in the vena cava inferior behind the liver. There are also some few smaller branches. Biliary Ducts. Arise by minute extremities, from all parts of the substance of the liver. Their ramifications accompany the nerves and vessels. In making a section of the liver their orifices may be distin- guished by the yellow fluid which exudes. These have been called pori biliarii. They gradually unite into larger branches and form trunks, which are all brought together in the ductus hepaticus, which is found in Glisson’s capsule. Substance of the Liver. Tender, and maybe broken down by pressure with the finger, without injury even to the peritoneal covering. Even abstracting the vessels above described, which, with their various ramifi- cations, constitute so large a portion of the whole mass, there appears to be a structure peculiar to the substance of the liver, as such. If a section be made of the viscus, it presents a smooth surface, composed of small points of a reddish brown and pale yellow intermixed. The orifices also of the vessels distributed through its substance become perceptible in the manner already noticed. If a portion of the liver be torn away or broken off, the surfaces will appear rough, granulated, and made up of small irregularly rounded grains or bodies, of a reddish bpown colour and soft consistence. These have been called acini, and if we take thin sections or slices, injected minutely and dried, minute vessels are seen to radiate from them, and are thence named penicilli. These grains are united, as well as the vessels, by a cellular texture.