43 Sect. I. The muscles attached to the os occipitis are ten pairs; viz. the M. trapezii, complexi, splenii, recti postici majores, & minores capitis, obliqui superiores capitis, recti latera- ls, recti interni majores, and minores capitis, and occipito frontales. TEMPORAL BONES. Ossa Ternporum. A pair. Situation. In the inferior, middle, and lateral parts of the skull, forming parts of the temples and cheek. Description. It is of an irregular shape, thin before and above, and thick behind and below, sending from within a strong triangular process which passes forwards, inwards and downwards, and being of a close texture and rocky hardness, is called the pars petrosa, which naturally divides the other part of the bone into two ; that which is before and to the outer side of it is called pars squamosa, from its being thin like a fish scale ; and that which is behind and to its outer side the pars mamillaris, from its resemblance to a nipple. The Pars Squamosa Is situated in front, it is bounded below by the meatus au ditorius externus, which is the largest external hole, and above by the petrous portion. The superior part of the pars squamosa is very thin, and called the scaly plate, lamella squamosa; it forms part of the temporal fossa, from the under and outer parts of which extends the root of the zygomatic process, processus zygomaticus, which is thin and narrow, facing downwards and inwards, it passes forwards, curves slightly inwards, is smooth above, but irregular and having a tubercle at its root below, and terminates in a denticulated process, the malar process, processus malaris; between the root of the zygomatic process above and the scaly plate is the temporal pulley, trochlea temporalis, over which the M. temporalis plays ; behind the root of the same process below is the glenoid cavity, cavitas articularis, for tire articulation of the lower jaw; this is crossed by the glasserian fissure, fissura glasseri, and bounded before by the articular eminence, eminentia articularis, broadest within, and narrowest with- out, where it terminates in the tubercle of the zygomatic pro- cess, and bounded behind by the auditory process, processus auditions, which forms the floor of the external auditory passage, meatus auditorius externus ; the auditory process is slightly hollowed to receive part of the parotid gland, and has above it the external auditory hole, foramen auditivum externum. Within the squamous part is marked by the con-