248 Sect. IV. which form segments of circles, are stronger, more distinct, and numerous, than the longitudinal, and encompass the canal. '1 he villous, or mucous coat of the intestines, presents the same appearance of villi as the internal membrane of the stomach, ot which it is a continuation. It forms numerous duplicatures within the canal, called valvules conniventes: these are fixed transversely to the circumference of the intes- tine. They vary in breadth and length, but none of them form entire circles ; and they are broader in the middle than at the end. The mucous coat is united to the muscular by a cellular texture, which was formerly called the nervous coat. The villi are more conspicuous than in the stomach ; they are composed of arteries, veins, and nerves, and the mouths of the absorbent or lacteal vessels. In the cellular texture are found small round and oval glands of the follicular kind; but which are not distinct, except under disease. Some of these are clustered together, whilst others are met with singly; they have, therefore, according to these circumstances, been called the glandules aggregates et solitaries, or from their discoverers, Brunneri et Pcyeri. Duodenum. Is the largest, and seems capable of the greatest dilatation ; whence it has been sometimes called a secondary stomach. It is closely fixed, especially its two lower portions, which give attachment to the pancreas. Its peritonseal covering is partial, being covered only anteriorly by the superior layer of the mesocolon, between the layers of which its transverse portion is included. Its muscular coat is stronger. Its villous coat presents a number of valvulae con- niventes ; they begin about an inch from the pyloric orifice. Where the intestine becomes transverse, the ductus communis choledochus, and ductus pancreaticus, terminate upon the internal surface by a common orifice. Jejunum. It differs from the duodenum in being less, and in having a weaker muscular coat; while the valvulae conniventes, villi, and lacteals are much more conspicuous as well as more numerous. Ilium. It is still less in diameter; its coats are thinner; the valvulae conniventes fewer and smaller; and the lacteals not so numerous. Large Intestines. Their surface is not even, but disposed in different eminences. To different parts are attached the appendices pinguidinoses or epiploices. '1 hese are small processes, formed of elongations of the peritonaeal covering, which contain some cellular membrane and adipose matter.