258 Sect, IV. continued to the spermatic cord to be distributed to the testi- cle : in the female pass between the layers of the ligamenta lata to be dispersed upon the ovavia and fundus of the uterus. The arteries of the kidneys are called emulgent, or renal. They are derived from the aorta, passing off at nearly right angles ; are commonly two in number, and of considerable size j but frequently more, and of smaller size. The right is longer than the left on account of the position of the aorta, and commonly passes behind the vena cava; but they both pass outwards and a little downwards, and as they approach the kidney divide into branches, which pass in at the sinus. The emulgent veins are larger than the arteries, forming a large trunk on each side which lies anterior to the corres- ponding artery, and runs transversely to the vena cava; the left, which is the longer of the two, passes across the fore part of the aorta. The ureters or excretory ducts of the kidney are about the size of a quill. At their origin they are situated behind the emulgent vein ; they then descend obliquely inwards behind the peritonaeum, upon the psoas muscles, are continued into the pelvis, and terminate, as will be seen hereafter, at the under, outer, and back part of the bladder. See page 2/1. The kidney and capsula renalis may now be taken out in order to examine their structure. Kidney. Like the figure of the bean so called, is elongated from above to below, its outer margin convex, and its inner concave, having a depression or sinus at which the vessels enter; and its upper extremity is broader and more curved above than the inferior. It is covered only anteriorly by the peritonaeum, which is loosely connected with it by cellular membrane. But it has a proper covering, tunica propria, which closely invests the whole exterior of the gland, and passes in with the vessels at the sinus. It forms a thin layer, and appears composed of condensed cellular membrane. The substance of the kidney is firm in its consistence. It is formed of two distinct kinds of structure—the cortical, and the tubular or medullary. The cortical forms the exterior of the gland, being disposed in a layer of about a quarter of an inch in thickness; besides which it sends in partitions, columncc, vel septa, which divide the portions of medullary substance, diminishing in thickness as they extend towards the pelvis of the kidney. This part of the kidney is less firm and more easily torn than the medullary. It is of a yellow- ish or brownish red, and principally composed of vessels. It is in this part of the kidney that the branches of the emul- gent artery minutely ramify, terminate on the one hand in