Sect. I. , 55 and eminentiae mamillares, produced by the convolutions of the brain. BASIS INTERNA. The internal basis is divided into three portions, the an- terior, or frontal; the middle, or sphenoido temporal; and the posterior, or occipital. 1. Portio frontalis is bounded before and to the sides by the fronto temporal portion of the os frontis, and behind by the transverso spinous processes of the os sphenoides. It has in the middle in front, the spine of the os frontis, to which the falx major of the dura mater is attached3 at the root of which is the foramen caecum 3 and behind it, the crista galli 5 to both of which, the falx is also attached ; on each side of the crista galli is the crybriform plate of the os ethmoides ; and further out, the orbitar plates of the os frontis, upon which the anterior lobes of the cerebrum rest. The Foramina in this division are Foramen caecum, for the attachment of the dura mater, and sometimes the passage of a vein. Foramina crybrosa, for the passage of the olfactory and ethmoidal nerves into the nose, 2. Portio sphenoido temporalis, bounded before by the transverso spinous processes of the os sphenoides 3 on the sides by the squamous portions of the ossa temporum3 and behind by the superior angles of the petrous portions of the same bones, and the posterior clinoid process of the os sphe- noides. It has in the middle, the sella tursica for the lodge- ment of the pituitory gland of the brain, bounded behind by the posterior clinoid process 3 and before, by the two anterior clinoid processes3 between which is the processus olivaris 3 and upon it, the optic nerves join 5 extending outwards from the anterior clinoid, are the transverso spinous processes 3 on each side of the sella tursica, but below it, is a groove for the carotid artery, and the cavernous sinus 3 and below that a shallow groove for the superior maxillary nerve ; further out on each side, are the cavities to lodge the middle lobes of the brain; behind, on the anterior surfaces of the petrous por- tions of the ossa temporum, are seen the juttings of the anterior legs of the vertical semicircular canals, and the canalis innominatus for the nervus innominatus. Thb Foramina in this division are Foramina optica, for the passage of the optic nerves and ocular arteries into the orbits. Foramina lacera orhitaria superiora, for the passage of the common oculo muscular, inner oculo muscular, opthal-