Sect. V. 316 ft. Short gastric, (A. gastricae breves,) five or six in number, given off where the artery divides, which are dis- tributed upon the left extremity of the stomach, and form numerous communications with the coronary and right gastric branches. 7- Left inferior gastric. (A. gastrica inferior sinistra.) Arises from the same part as the last, but is of larger size. It takes its course along the greater curvature of the stomach, furnishing branches to the coats of the sto- mach and to the omentum, and anastomoses with the right inferior gastric branch. b. Superior Mesenteric Artery. A. Mesen- terica Superior. Is generally larger than the coeliac. It arises from the aorta , immediately below the coeliac, and sometimes by a trunk in common with it. It is first concealed by the pancreas, behind which it descends, then passes over the duodenum, and takes its course between the layers of the mesentery downwards and to the right, forming a bend of which the concavity is upwards and to the right, and the convexity downwards and to the left, and, gradually diminishing in size, terminates in the right lumbar region. Its first branches are small, distri- buted to the pancreas and duodenum, and communicate with branches of the hepatic. The principal branches are for the supply of the small and large intestines. 1. branches to the small intestines. A. intestinales. They arise from the convexity of the bend, and are ten or eleven in number : those whicji are towards the middle being the longer. But in size they all decrease from above to below. They take their course between the layers of the mesentery, furnishing small branches both to these and to its glands. They then ramify, and the branches, by uniting, form arches, the convexity of which is towards the intestines. From these, again, branches proceed, which unite and form similar smaller arches, and these again detach numerous yet smaller branches, which likewise freely communicate with each other; so that the distribution of these vessels has the appearance of a net- work. From the arches nearest the intestines, numerous small branches pass in a straight direction to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the intestines, and are distributed to their coats, in which they freely anastomose with each other. From the concavity of the bend arise the arteries which supply the large intestines. They are two or three in number, are called the colic arteries, (A. colicie,) and are distinguished as the