Sect. I. 47 been described, the organ of hearing, which includes the ossicula auditus, viz. malleus, incus, os orbiculare, and stapes. As, however, these cannot be understood till sec- tions of the os temporis have been made, it will be better to refer the yphole to the description of the Ear, p. 430, rather than to describe the organ partially in this place. ETHMOID BONE. Os Ethmoides. Situation. In the ethmoidal notch of the os frontis, and forming the roof of the nostrils. Description. The ethmoid bone derives its name from its resemblance to a sieve, being full of holes; it is of a cuboidal figure and made up principally of cells. The superior surface of the bone is called its crybriform plate, lamella aybriformis, which has in the middle the cock’s comb, crista galli, to which the beginning of the falx major of the dura mater is attached; it is thin and narrow at the back part of the crybriform plate, but as it advances it becomes deeper and broader, where it is sometimes hollowed to form part of the foramen caecum; on each side of the cock’s comb are numerous little holes, the sieve-like holes, foramina crybrosa; from the under part of the crista descends the nasal plate, lamella nasalis3 thick behind, and above, where it joins with the ethmoidal process of the sphenoid bone, thin behind andbelow where itjoins with the vomer, and very much thicker before and above, directly under the crista galli, where itjoins with the crista nasalis of the frontal bone ; on either side of the nasal plate, which forms a division between them, are the convolutions of the bone, which coalescing form the ethmoidal sinuses, sinus ethmoidales, anterior and posterior, the former terminating in the middle, and the latter in the superior chambers of the nose ; two of these long convolutions which are nearest to the nasal plate descend further, and are more dis- tinct, with their concavities outwards, are called turbinated plates, lamella turbinata ; the spaces between the turbinated plates below, and the under part of the crybriform plate above, are called the superior chambers of the nose, meatus superiores nasales; the spaces below them and to their outer surfaces form part of the middle chambers of the nose, meatus medii nasales : the ethmoidal sinuses are bounded externally for the most part by the flat plates, lamella plana, which form the principal portions of the inside of the orbits,, but at the anterior, where the frontal and ethmoidal sinuses send their canals to terminate in the middle chamber, they are covered by the ossa lachrymalia.