Sect. VI. 423 cover them, with which it is connected by loose cellular mem- brane : from the cranium to below the opening into the larynx the two sides are separated; but lower down they are applied to each other except during deglutition. It corresponds laterally to the internal carotid arteries, and the internal jugular veins. There are seven openings in it, by which it communicates with the neighbouring cavities. At its upper part the poste- rior openings of the nares vertically oblong, separated by the posterior edge of the septum. Beneath these is the velum palati, and below it the isthmus of the fauces, the opening of communication between the mouth and pharynx. Lower down the base of the tongue, and then the epiglottis, a movable car- tilage belonging to the larynx : this covers the opening into the larynx. At the upper and anterior part of the lateral parietes are the openings of the Eustachian tubes projecting from the sides, turned forwards and inwards, and seeming rather to open into the nares. The superior extremity of the pharynx forms a blind extremity, and occupies the space between the openings of the nares and the condyles of the os occipitis. The inferior extremity opens into the upper extre- mity of the oesophagus with which it is continuous. The pharynx is surrounded by a loose cellular membrane which unites it to the surrounding parts. Its muscular part is formed of five muscles on each side, described at page 191; M. pharyngeus superior, medius & inferior, stylo-pharyngeus, and palato-pharyngeus. It is lined by a membrane which is continuous with that of the nose, of the mouth, larynx, and oesophagus. It is thickest at the upper part3 is very thin on the posterior surface of the larynx, and has a plicated appear- ance. It is covered by a very thin epidermis, and perforated by the ducts of numerous glands, situated on its external surface 3 and which are most abundant at the upper part. ยง 5. OF THE THYROID GLAND. The thyroid gland is situated at the lower and lateral parts of the larynx and upper and anterior part of the trachaea. It is large in the foetus, but afterward decreases in size. It is formed of two lobes joined by a narrow slip, sometimes want- ing, which crosses the trachaea a few lines below the cricoid cartilage. Sometimes a process from the middle portion, which may be mistaken for a muscle, ascends between the sterno-byoidei, and is fixed to the base of the os hyoides. The lobes begin at the sides of the cricoid cartilage, and