Sect. VI. 410 The rest of the dissection must be carried on in water, as the tunics are thereby more readily separated from each other. Dr. Jacob recommends fastening the eye upon a piece of wax, attached to a flat portion of ground glass, which is to be im- mersed in water. lie also employs a hollow glass sphere, a fourth part of which is cut off, and its edges ground to fit the flat plate ; this being filled with water and whelmed over the part to be examined, gives great distinctness to the object, as it answers the purpose of-a strong lens. Cut round the sclerotic coat carefully, remove it,and expose beneath, the Tunica Choroides. Which begins at the en- trance of the optic nerve into the eye, lines the internal sur- face of the sclerotic passing between it and the retina, and terminates at the ciliary ligament, to which it is firmly con- nected. The internal surface of the membrane is lined by a deep brown or black pigment, called the pigmentum nigrum, which, in the dead subject at least, penetrates the membrane, and tinges the sclerotic coat on the opposite side, but not the retina. It is in greater abundance on the anterior than on the posterior part, and the colour varies, somewhat according to the complexion and age of the individual. If the tunic be macerated, and the dark substance to which also its sub- stance owes its colour removed, it becomes in a great measure transparent, and appears to be made up of vessels disposed in little bundles, connected by cellular membrane; those on the outside, disposed in whirls, are veins, called vasa-vorti- cosaj those on the inside run more parallel to each other, and are the ramifications of the ciliary arteries. Hence Ruys.ch was led to conceive, that the coat was composed of two lamellae. At the fore part, where the choroid seems to terminate, is a whitish line called the Ciliary Ligament. It bounds the choroid, and gives attachment to it, anteriorly. It is seen when the scle- rotic is raised from the choroid coat, at about one-twelfth of an inch behind the part where the opaque joins with the transparent cornea. It is nearly colourless; and is not of a ligamentous nature, but seems formed of a quantity of con- densed cellular substance. It adheres to the sclerotica, but not firmly, and likewise gives attachment to the iris. Take another eye, cut vertically through the globe, remove the humours, and expose the