372 Sect. V. the constrictores pharyngis, and to the tonsil, and divides into branches to the parts about the passage of the fauces, the muscular structure of the tongue, and to the skin and papillae at the root of the tongue. X. Pneumo-gastric. Ar. pneumo-gastricas, vagus, par octavum. It passes out of the cranium with the former nerve, through the lacerated foramen, and is continued through the neck and chest into the abdomen, terminating by distributing branches to the stomach, and in its course furnishing branches to the upper part of the alimentary canal and to the respiratory organs. It is at first situated before the internal jugular vein; and is closely connected by cellular membrane with the glosso-pharyngeal, the lingual, and the sympathetic nerve. It then descends, separated from the glosso-pharyn- geal by the internal jugular vein, and quitting the lingual nerve; it passes through the neck rather behind the com- mon carotid artery, between it and the internal jugular vein, and included in the same sheath of cellular substance with these vessels. It is continued into the chest, passing on the right side, between the subclavian vein and artery, and on the left side before the arch of the aorta. It then takes its course through the posterior mediastinum by the side of the oeso- phagus, and is continued with it through the diaphragm, terminating by branches to the stomach. It gives off 1. smali. branches. Small ones of communi- cation with the accessory and glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and with the superior cervical ganglion. 2. pharyngeal. (N. pharyngeus.) Formed in part by a branch or two from the accessory nerve. It passes downwards on the inner side of the internal carotid artery, forms on the pharynx the pharyngeal plexus, pi. p/uiryn- geus, which receives likewise filaments from the laryngeal and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, and from the superior cervical ganglion, and is distributed to the constrictors of the pharynx; some filaments descending upon the carotid with those of the glosso-pharyngeal. Near the point at which the pharyngeal branch is given off, the pneumo-gastric nerve becomes enlarged, softer, and redder, so as to present the appearance of a ganglion at that part. 3. laryngeal. (N. laryngeus, laryngeus su- perior.) Arises commonly from tfie enlargement above-men- tioned. It passes downward and inward behind the carotid artery, receiving some filaments from the pharyngeal plexus.