Sect. I. 61 a finger’s breadth, hollowed above from side to side, forming the greater part of the floor of the nose, and hollowed below, to form as much of the roof of the mouth; it becomes much deeper at its inner edge, and rough, to join with its fellow, and form above, the nasal crest, crista nasalis, which is grooved to receive the vomer, and extending beyond the bony part of the nostrils, gives attachment to the cartilaginous septum of the nose: below the junction forms the palatine spine, spina palatina; at the anterior part of the floor of the nostril, close to the nasal crest, is the foramen incisivum, leading to'the ductus incisivus; and at the back part, the palatine process is deeply notched, to receive the os palati: around the inferior, anterior, and external part of the body are sent down two alveolar processes, processus alveolares, divided by alveolar plates, lamellae alveolares, into alveolar cavities, cavitates alveolares, of which there is usually eight in each bone, to receive as many teeth : in the alveolar cavity of the second molar tooth, there is usually a hole of commu- nication with the antrum; between the root of the inner alveolar process and the palatine plate, is a groove, along which the palatine artery and nerve pass to the ductus inci- sivus, which is formed by the junction of a notch in the anterior part of the palatine spine : above the floor of the nostril, and from its outer edge, rises up the side of the body, forming the inner boundary of the antrum, and the nasal pro- cess 3 in the former is the maxillary hole, foramen maxillare, by which the antrum communicates with the middle chamber of the nose ; and upon the latter, just above and before the termination of the nasal duct, is a horizontal ridge to which the anterior extremity of the os turbinatum is attached. y The Foramina in the os maxillare superius are four, and one is formed by the junction of both bones. Foramen infra orbitare, for the exit of the infra orbitar nerve and vessels from the canal. Foramen maxillare, from the antrum into the nose. Foramen incisivum, from the nostril into the ductus inci- sivus, for the anastomosis of the spbeno palatine, and palatine nerves and vessels. The opening from the alveolar cavity of the second molar tooth into the antrum. Ductus incisivus, formed by the junction of both the supe- rior maxillary bones. Besides these are found part of the ductus ad nasum, of the fissura spheno rnaxillaris, and the anterior opening of the nostril. Junctions. The os maxillare superius is connected by its