135 Sect. II. the former, passes forwards across it, and is fixed to the spin- ous process of the ischium. By these two ligaments the sacro-ischiatic notches are formed into complete foramina : that above the spinous pro- cess of the ischhun is called the greater sacro-ischiatic hole, for. sacro-ischiaticum mcijus; and that below it the lesser sacro-ischiatic hole, for. sacro-ischiciticum minus. 3. Obturator Ligament, Ligamentum obtura- torium. Is a thin ligamentous expansion composed of irre- gular fibres, which adhere to the margin of the foramen obtu- rator, and fill the whole of that opening, except at the upper and outer part, where a passage is left for the obturator ves- sels and nerve. This opening is remarkable from its admit- ting occasionally of the descent of a hernia. § 2. OF THE HIP JOINT. The hip joint is surrounded by thick and strong muscles, which contribute principally to give figure to it externally. From this circumstance some difficulties arise in the exami- nation of this joint under accident or disease; it furnishes, however, a stronger reason for acquiring an intimate acquaint- ance with the form and proportions of the part in its natural and healthy state. The joint is composed of the os innomi- natum and os femoris, and the parts connected with it are :—of the os innoniinatum, the acetabulum, and the three bones of which it is composed which meet in the acetabulum; and of the os femoris, the head, neck, trochanter major, and tro- chanter minor. The only part which can be felt before the coverings have been removed is the trochanter major : but the joint itself is the least covered anteriorly. 1. Capsular Ligament, Ligamentum capsulare. Is the largest and most complete of any in the body. It is attached above to the outside of the brim of the acetabulum; it surrounds the head and neck of the os femoris, round the latter of which it is firmly connected. The external part is extended farther down than the internal, which is fixed to the neck by several separate bands or firaena. It is strongest at the upper, outer, and fore part; is composed of several layers of strong longitudinal fibres, and is strengthened by the sur- rounding muscles. 2. Cotyloid or Fibro-cartilaginous Liga- ment of the Acetabulum, Ligamentum cotyloi.de.um fibro- cartilagineum, Is seen on cutting open the capsular ligament.