397 Sect. V. 3. Superior Mesenteric Plexus. PL meson - fericus superior. Is formed by filaments from the under part of the semilunar ganglia, and from the hepatic and splenic plexus. It accompanies the trunk and branches of the superior mesenteric artery, and is distributed to the small and a part of the large intestines, and to the pancreas. 4. Renal Plexus. PL renalis. Formed by five or six filaments from the upper and lateral part of the semilunar ganglion on each side, and increased by filaments from the superior mesenteric plexus. It accompanies the renal artery, is intermixed with small ganglia, and distributes its filaments to the kidney and renal capsule. This plexus is connected by filaments with the inferior thoracic and superior lumbar ganglia. 5. Spermatic Plexus. PL spermaticus. Is formed by filaments from the renal plexus, joined by others from the superior mesenteric plexus. It descends with the spermatic vessels, furnishes filaments to the ureter, and is continued in the male to the testicle; and in the female to the ovary. 6. Aortic Plexus. PL aorticus. Is formed by filaments, which are continued from the superior mesen- teric plexus along the aorta, joined by branches from the lumbar ganglia. 7- Inferior Mesenteric Plexus. Pl. me- sentericus inferior. Is formed by filaments continued from the last-mentioned plexus, which, intermixed with ganglia, accompany and form a web about the inferior mesenteric artery ; and are distributed to part of the colon and to the rectum. 8. Hypogastric Plexus. PL hypogastricus. The filaments from the aortic plexus descending into the pelvis, and joined by filaments from the lumbar and sacral nerves, and from their connecting branches, form this plexus. It accompanies the pelvic vessels, and distributes twigs to the rectum and bladder; in the male to the prostate gland and vesiculae seminales; and in the female to the uterus and to the vagina. § 7. TABLE OF THE NERVES. I. Nerves from the Brain. 1. Olfactory. Dividing into— Branches to the Schneiderian membrane*