Sect. V. 325 times detaches a considerable branch, which takes its course inwards and upwards, and is distributed on the fore part of the abdominal parietes. Femoral Artery. A. Femoralis. Passes from behind Poupart’s ligament, where it com- mences, and takes its course downwards on the anterior, then on the inner side of the thigh, and at the upper part of the lowest third of the thigh passes through the tendon of the adductor magrius, and receives the name of popliteal artery. The portion of this artery, which is opposite Poupart’s liga- ment, is sometimes distinguished by the name of the inguinal artery. (A. inguinalis.) It passes there into the sheath form- ed by the fascia transversalis and fascia iliaca; it is situated nearly opposite to the junction of the ilium with the os pubis, upon the inner edge of the psoas muscle, with the accompany- ing vein on the inner side, and the anterior crural nerve on the outer side at a little distance from it, and exterior to the sheath in which the artery is contained. As it descends it is first situated superficially. Anteriorly : it is first covered by the integuments, aponeurosis, inguinal glands, some fat and the fascia lata in the triangular space formed by the crural arch above; by the sartorius on the outer side, and the adductor longus and gracilis muscle on the inner side. Lower, the sartorius, which is gradually in- clined towards it, passes oblicpiely over it, and continues upon it as far as the tendon of the adductor magrius, so as to cover it during its course through the middle third of the thigh. Posteriorly, it is opposite to the head of the os femoris, and passes down upon the under end of the psoas and iliacus mus- cles, and then upon the adductor brevis and magnus muscle, more or less fat and cellular membrane being interposed ; but it is close upon the last-named muscle below. On the outer side, after cjuitting the psoas, it is applied to the vastus inter- nus muscle, w'hich separates it below from the os femoris. One branch only of the anterior crural nerve accompanies it, namely the saphsenus, situated at the outer and fore part, and more or less involved in its sheath. On the inner side it is accompanied by the femoral vein, which, as it descends, is inclined behind the artery, ancl. is applied to the adductor, towards which it passes in its descent. , In the uppermost third of the thigh it is loosely connected to the surrounding parts. In the middle third it is surrounded