322 Sect. V. situated about the back part of the hip-joint, and at the upper and back part of the thigh ; and these branches com- municate with the circumflex arteries. C. pudic. A. pudenda interna, communis. It descends within the pelvis, immediately before the ischiatic artery, and passes out of the pelvis with it before the pyriformis muscle. It then takes its course forwards between the sacro- sciatic ligaments, and re-enters the pelvis. It is continued along the ischium, in the hollow above the tuberosity of that bone, and ascends on the inner side of the ramus of the is- chium, and on that of the os pubis, in its course upwards advancing and becoming more superficial, to the under part of the symphysis pubis, where it terminates by dividing into branches, distributed to the organs of generation. This is the usual course, but in some instances in the male, it passes forwards at the under and lateral part of the bladder to the ischium. It furnishes, a. Branches within the pelvis, to the bladder, to the vesicular seminalcs and prostate gland, and, in the female, to the vagina. !3. Branches to the muscles and parts adjacent to the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and hip-joint. 7. External hccmorrhoidal. (A. liaemorrhoidea externa.) Consisting of one, sometimes of two branches, distributed to the extremity of the rectum, and to the parts about the anus. S. Perineal. (A. superficialis perinei.) Passes under the transversus perinei, and is continued forwards be- tween the bulb and crus of the penis, and distributes branches to the skin and muscles of the perineum, and to the scrotum; and in the female to the labia. r. Artery of the bull. (A. bulbi urethrae, trfins- versa perinei.) Passes oblicpiely across the fore part of the perineum, along the transversus perinei muscle; and after furnishing several inconsiderable bnmehes to the adjacent parts, passes into the bulb, and is distributed within the corpus spongiosum. The trunk of the pudic is then continued as the proper artery of the penis (A. penis) in the male, and as the artery of the clitoris (A. clitoridea) in the female: and under the symphysis pubis it, in both sexes, divides into a superficial and deep branch. Superficial. (A. dorsalis vel superficialis penis vel clitoridis.) Passes through the suspensory ligament, and takes its course along the dorsum of the penis in a tortuous