Sect. III. 152 CEREBRUM. Is the largest of the divisions. It is situated in, and fills the upper part of the cranium. Is of an oval rounded figure, and divided by a middle longitudinal fissure, fissura lovgi- tudinalis, into which the falx major descends, into two equal and similar halves, called its hemispheres. Their upper and outer surface is rounded, their inner surfaces, ■>*. nich are in apposition to each other, are flattened, and tin. lower surface is divided in each into three lobes. The surface of the hemi- spheres, more especially at the outer and upper part, is irre- gular, divided into a number of turning or winding eminences, called convolutions, gyri, with corresponding depressions between them, called sulci. They run in various directions; their breadth, length, and depth, vary on the same side, and do not correspond on the opposite sides. DISSECTION OF THE CEREBRUM. Separate the hemispheres and the Corpus Callosum, Commissura mugna cerebri, will be seen; it is a transverse oblong portion of medullary matter connecting the two hemispheres, and situated nearer their anterior than their posterior extremities. Tt is about three inches long, is narrower before than behind, and is continued on each side into the substance of the he- mispheres. Along the middle of its upper surface runs, from before to behind, a line formed by a slight depression between two inconsiderable ridges, called the raphe: from each side of the raphe issue transverse striae, 'which are continued into the hemispheres.' The posterior extremity of the corpus callosum presents a rounded transverse eminence, which renders this extremity thicker than the other. When the dissection has been prosecuted further, it may be seen that the anterior extremity does not terminate, as it appears to do, between the hemi- spheres, but is turned downwards, so as to form a concavity towards the ven- tricles, is stretched over the fore part of the corpora striata, and thus encloses the ventricles anteriorly; it terminates by a layer, which is extended back- wards between the hemispheres, and forms the parietes of the ventricles supe- riorly ; this becomes narrow pointed, and reaches to the crura of the fornix. Between these layers the septum of the ventricles is stretched perpen- dicularly. Remove the hemispheres by making a section of them from the corpus callosum outwards, and rather upwards, which produces the appearance called centrum ovale; in it is seen the disposition of the two substances composing the brain, viz. the cineritious or cortical, and the medullary.