242 Sect. IV. 2. The Arch of the Colon occupies the lower and anterior part of the epigastric region; it is situated usually below the stomach, but passes across the abdomen, sometimes opposite to the navel, and sometimes lower, through the hy- pogastric region, and behind the anterior layer of the great omentum. It is the longest and largest portion of the divi- sions of the colon. It is united behind with the Transverse Mesocolon. This is a fold of peritonaeum formed of two layers which pass transversely, and connect the colon with the pos- terior wall of the abdomen ; it forms with the intestines a kind of partition of the abdominal cavity. Its figure is semi- circular, being larger in the middle than at the sides, where the intestine is near to the parietes. Its inferior layer is con- tinued with the mesentery, its superior passes over the pan- creas and third turn of the duodenum, where they separate. On the left it is continued with the peritonaeum of the parietes at the eleventh or twelfth rib, forming a fold below the spleen. On the right it is continued to the lumbar peritonaeum above the kidney and behind the liver, to the right of the duodenum. The covering of the upper part of the duodenum is a continu- ation of the superior layer; but where the intestine passes across the spine, it is included between the two layers. 3. The Descending Colon. Before the left kid- ney and below the spleen ; having the same relative situation, size, and connections, as the right; it has sometimes a Left Mesocolon. 4. The Sigmoid Flexure of the Colon. Situ- ated in the left iliac fossa, is loosely attached by a double layer of peritonaeum, called the Iliac Mesocolon. Rectum. Occupies the posterior part of the pelvis. Its name is not correct in the human subject, as it is somewhat curved. At the superior opening of the pelvis it corresponds to the left psoas, is then inclined to the right, passes on the median line, at the lower part of its course, and terminates at the anus. It is covered and fixed by perito- naeum, the extent of which will be seen in the dissection of the pelvis : it is sometimes continued behind the intestine, and forms a loose fold called the Mesorectum. YVe next pro- ceed to the Omenta. Of these there are two, a less and a greater. Less Omentum. Oment.gaslro-hepaticum, mem- bran a madlentior. Extends between the lesser curvature of the stomach and the concave surface of the liver; it is fixed besides to the extremity of the oesophagus and to the dia- phragm, to the pylorus, and the commencement of the duode-