149 Sect. III. course to the bones above-mentioned, to the spine of the os frontis, to the junction of the ossa parietalia, and behind to the upper half of the perpendicular ridge of the os occipitis. It is at first narrow, but gradually becomes broader as it ex- tends backwards ; and terminates at the transverse ridge of the os occipitis by dividing into the layers, which form the tentorium. 2. Tentorium Cerebelli (transverse septum, lateral processes.) Is formed by the division of the falx, and by two layers from below, thus constituting a double layer of dura mater. It is continued horizontally over the upper part of the cerebellum. It is severally attached to the transverse ridges of the occipital bone, to the edges of the petrous por- tions of the temporal bone, and to the posterior clinoid pro- cesses of the sphenoid bone. In the midst, behind the sphe- noid bone and between the two processes, is a large opening of communication, through which passes the isthmus of the brain, or that process by which the cerebrum and cerebellum are united. The processes, though called transverse, give a tense covering to the cerebellum rather in the form of an arch or vault, which is supposed to defend it from the pres- sure of the superincumbent cerebrum. 3. Falx Minor (septum cerebelli.) Is placed between the lobes of the cerebellum. It commences from the tentorium, opposite the greater falx, passes down to the foramen magnum, is of inconsiderable breadth, and diminish- ing as it descends, terminates at the edge of that opening. It adheres to the lower part of the perpendicular ridge of the os occipitis. Sinuses of the Brain. The principal vessels which return the blood from the brain are called Sinuses. They differ from the veins in structure and in figure ; their shape is triangular; they have no valves, and do not accompany the arteries. There are four principal sinuses, viz. 1. Superior Longitudinal Sinus (falciform.) This may now be examined, by cutting through the dura mater which forms its upper wall. It begins at the crista galli, passes directly backwards, is placed in the upper part of the falx major, being situated under the sagittal suture, and terminates opposite the protuberance of the os occipitis. It is narrow in its commencement, becomes more capacious in its course backwards, and terminates in the lateral sinuses, most commonly in the right.