Sect. V. 333 by the soleus. At the lower part of the leg it is more ■ super- facial, situated between the edge of the tcndo Achillis and malleolus interims; it has at that part the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum muscles on the inner or tibial side, and the tendon of the flexor longus pol- licis on the outer or fibular side, and is covered by a strong aponeurosis. The tibial nerve is situated to its outer or fibu- lar edge, and the accompanying veins on the sides at the up- per part of the leg, but opposite the base of the tibia it is crossed by the inner plantar nerve, so that from that point till it divides into the plantar arteries, it has the plantar nerves on the inner and outer side. It gives off 1. branches to the muscles, and principally to the deep- seated. They are given off during the course of the artery through the leg; but are not considerable either in number or size. 2. nutritious of the tibia. A. nutritia tibice. A branch of considerable size given off from the upper part of the artery. It descends, and, after giving twigs to the periosteum, enters the foramen at the back part of the tibia. 3. branches, twro or three in number, distributed to parts about the inner ankle, heel, and to the muscles of the great toe, which form several communications with branches of the anterior tibial artery. Plantar Arteries. A. Plantares. 1. Inner Plantar. A. plantaris interna. Is the smaller of the two. It passes forwards on the inner side of the sole of the foot. It follows the course of the abductor and flexor brevis pollicis, to the head of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, between them and the aponeurosis plantaris. It furnishes Branches to the muscles of the great toe in the inner plantar region, to the tarsal joints, and branches of communication with branches of the anterior tibial. The trunk then generally bends inwards, and between the first and second toe joins with the plantar digital branch of the great toe. 2. Outer Plantar. A. plantaris externa. Is larger and more deep-seated than the former. It takes its course obliquely outwards between the flexor brevis and flexor accessorius digitorum, to the inner edge of the abductor