251 Sect. IV. ments of the Liver, five in number, which are, except the round ligament, productions of the peritonaeum:—The sus- pensory ligament consists of two layers of peritonaeum, which pass from before to behind, and are continued from the diaphragm to the convex surface of the liver, so as to divide it into right and left portions. At its anterior edge, between its layers, are contained the remains of the umbilical vein, which thus passes to the liver on the exterior of the peritonaeum ; it is called the round ligament. The layers of the suspensory ligament separate from each other behind, leaving a triangular space filled by cellular membrane, and, at this part, are called the coronary ligament; while under the name of the right and left lateral ligaments, they are continued on each side along the posterior margin of the liver, and connect it to the diaphragm. The liver may now be taken out, by cutting through the ligaments, and through the ductus communis choledochus, hepatic artery, and vena portae, leaving still the duodenum and pancreas in situ. The liver is the largest gland in the body; of a dusky red colour; its average weight, in adults, about three pounds; its figure irregular ; and its superior surface convex, fitting the concavity of the diaphragm. This surface is divided by the suspensory ligampnt into two unequal parts; that to the right called the Right or Great Lobe—that to the left, the Left or Small Lobe. The inferior surface is of less extent than the upper; irregularly concave, and rendered unequal by different cavities and projections. These are :—1. To the left, a slightly concave surface, corresponding to the stomach. 2. The Great Fissure, or Fossa Umbilicalis, dividing the under surface into the right and left lobes, passes from the anterior to the posterior edge: it is often crossed anteriorly by a pro- cess of the liver, thence named Pons Hepatis, so as to render a part of it a complete canal. It lodges anteriorly the um- bilical vein, and posteriorly the ductus venosus ; both of which are of a ligamentous texture. 3. The Porta, or Sulcus Trans- versus, which is not so long as the last, passes from left to right in the direction of the transverse diameter of the liver, of which it occupies about the middle third : it is situated at nearly an equal distance from-the anterior and posterior edges of the viscus, and at right angles with the last fissure : its depth is considerable, especially in the middle. It contains the trunk of the vena portfe, the principal branches of the hepatic artery, the biliary ducts where they form the ductus hcpaticus, and the nerves and absorbents of the liver: these are united by a close cellular membrane. 4. The eminences