346 Sect. V. occipital veins. These veins take the course of the corre- sponding arteries, and are distributed in the same way with little variety. At the lacerated openings of the base of the skull, the in- ternal jugular vein receives the lateral sinus on each side, so that it returns the blood which has circulated through the brain, and of which the lateral sinuses are reservoirs from the other sinuses and returning vessels of the brain. For their description, see p. 150. Axillary Vein. V. Axillaris. Furnishes the veins which are distributed to the upper ex- tremity. These are divided into—1. Superficial, 2. Deep- seated. The deep-seated take the course of the arteries of the same name, and the greater number of the arteries are accompanied each by two veins. The axillary vein receives that name after having passed the clavicle. It passes ob- liquely downwards and outwards in the axilla, situated before the corresponding artery, but having otherwise the same re- lative position. Having reached the lower edge of the ten- don of the latissimus dorsi, it changes its name to that of brachial vein. It gives off in its course the external thoracic, infra scapular, and articular veins, which are distributed like the arteries of the same name. Besides these it furnishes two considerable veins, which form the superficial or cu- taneous veins of the upper extremity, viz. the cephalic and basilic. 1. cephalic. V. cephalica. It arises from the axillary, immediately after it has passed the clavicle. It takes its course outward, between the large pectoral and deltoid mus- cles, then descends between these muscles, and is continued upon the fore and outer part of the upper arm, along the outer side of the biceps flexor cubiti, as far as the bend of the elbow, giving off in its course some small branches. At the bend of the elbow it divides into two branches, the cephalic median and superficial radial. «. Cephalic median. (V. mediana cephalica.) Generally of considerable size, which passes obliquely downwards and inwards, and joins below with the basilic median vein. ft, Superficial radial. (V. radialis cutanea.) Which descends on the outer part of the fore arm. It com- monly divides into two branches, one of which takes its course