265 Sect. IV. , behind to before in a radiated manner, forming septulce, or partitions, between which the blood-vessels and seminiferous tubes are disposed. Substance of the Testicle. It consists of the excretory ducts of the testicle, together with blood- vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. On cutting open the tunica albuginea the testicle appears of a yellowish colour and pulpy consistence. It is made up of the tubuli seminiferi, minute ducts, which begin from the extremities of the secreting ar- teries, and are for the conveyance of the semen. These ducts are extremely numerous, are very minute, and are coiled up between the septulae in the form of lobes, which are above twenty in number. At the upper and back part of the testi- cle, opposite to the attachment of the epididymis, the tubuli are collected together; they communicate and form fewer and larger trunks ; constituting at this part an irregular net- work, which has been called the rete testis, and intermixed with a good deal of cellular membrane. From the rete more than twenty ducts, called vasa ejf'erentia, pass to the upper part of the epididymis ; in the upper part or head of that body they become much convoluted, in the shape of cones called coni vasculosi. The vessels forming the coni unite in a single duct, which by its numerous turns connected by a firm cellular sub- stance forms the rest of the epididymis. The duct increases in size as it descends, below it is reflected upwards from the extremity of the epididymis, and ascends with the turns un- folded, but still distinct, and terminates by forming the vas deferens, the course of which has been already described. OF THE PENIS. The penis is more or less of a cylindrical figure. The part by which it is attached is called the root; the opposite extre- mity, by which it terminates, is formed by the glans ; the in- tervening part is named the body. It is covered by the com- mon integuments, continued from the scrotum and pubes. At the under part is a projecting line called raphe, which runs along the penis, and is continuous with that of the scro- tum. At its extremity the skin forms a covering to the glans, called the prepuce ; which is attached at the under part of the glans, near the opening of the urethra, by a fold, called the frcenum ; this is in general so long, as to allow of the com- plete denudation of the glans. Near the corona glandis, or circumference of the glans, are situated numerous' mucous follicles, especially near to the frsenuin j they are called glan- *