9 Sect. I. 2. THE CHEST, Thorax, Is formed by twelve pairs of ribs, two bones of the ster- num, and the twelve dorsal vertebra already described. THE RIBS, Costa. Situation. Are placed on each side of the dorsal vertebrae, and form with them the posterior and lateral parts of the Thorax. They are divided into true, false, and floating ribs ; of these the true, the seven superior, are articulated to the sternum ; whilst the false, the three below the true, join by their cartilages to each other; and the floating ribs, or two lowest, have their anterior extremities terminating in the muscles and unattached to each other. Descriptiofi. The form of the ribs is very irregular. Each rib consists of two extremities with an intermediate body, which is more or less curved forwards and inwards, flat within and without, rounded above and sharp below, with a groove along its inferior edge for the intercostal \ressels and nerves : the posterior or vertebral extremity is called the head, which has two articular surfaces upon it divided by a middle ridge, to articulate with the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae; immediately to the outside of the head, the bone is contracted to form the neck, which is marked by the capsular ligament; a little to the outer, under, and back part of the neck is the tubercle, having a plane articular surface for the transverse process of the vertebra; further outward the bone becomes suddenly bent forwards and produces the angle; from which proceeds the body, which passes forwards and inwards, inclining at the same time downwards, to terminate at the sternal extre- mity, which becomes deeper and has an oval concave surface, in which the cartilage is received. Differences in particular Ribs. No two pairs of ribs resemble each other in length or in the direction of their curvature ; the first pair are the shortest, the second longer than them, and so on till the seventh pair; when they begin again to decrease in length to the twelfth, which are nearly as short as the first pair : and with regard to the direc- tion of their curvature, that of the first is nearly horizontal, whilst the lower pairs dip down more and more at their points. But there are other more remarkable distinctions in the first, eleventh and twelfth ribs. The first rib is very short and much curved, its body is very thin, and broad above and below, with a smooth and slightly hollowed surface near its sternal extremity, over which the sub-