Sect. V. 357 each other, and with the superficial absorbents of the lower extremity, and terminate in the inguinal glands. ft. Of the external parts of the organs of gene- ration. In the male they arise from the scrotum and penis; in the female from the clitoris and labia. Those of the penis and clitoris take their course along the dorsum and side of these parts in two or three trunks. They form various anas- tomoses at the upper part of the thigh and terminate in the inguinal glands. 7. Of the lower extremity. They arise by an an- terior and posterior set. The anterior set is formed by ab- sorbents which arise from the upper part of the toes and foot, upon which they form a considerable plexus : the branches from these take their course upwards along the fore and inner part of the leg, to the inner part of the knee. The pos- terior set is formed by vessels which arise principally from the sole of the foot, and ascend on the posterior surface, but most of them during their course pass obliquely over the fore and back part of the leg to join with the anterior set. From the branches of both sets larger trunks are formed, consisting of about twelve or fourteen vessels which ascend on the fore and inner part of the thigh, and terminate at the groin in the superficial inguinal glands. The superficial absorbents of the thigh take the same course, those from the back part passing round to join with the former, and terminate also in the inguinal glands. 2. DEEr-SEATED ABSORBENTS. They are much less numerous than the former, and accom- pany the blood-vessels. In the leg one or two trunks are found accompanying each of the arteries, and arising from the parts to which the ai-teries are distributed. They pass with these to the ham, and there terminate in the popliteal glands. From these glands three or four larger trunks accompany the popliteal and then take the course of the femoral artery, and receiving in their ascent some vessels, which accompany the deep arteries, terminate in the inguinal glands. Some of the deep-seated absorbents of the thigh accompany the ischiatic and obturator arteries and terminate in glands situ- ated in the pelvis. ยง 5. ABSORBENT GLANDS AND VESSELS OF THE ABDOMEN. 1. Glands of the Abdomen. Are more numerous than those of any part of the body. They are situated principally