174 Sect III. at the upper part form the posterior and inner third of the Great Bundle, where they receive a further addition. The great fibrous bundle being thus formed passes up into The Great Inferior Ganglion. Thalamus nervi optici. In which its fibres meet with a large quantity of grey substance, and are again increased by new fibres; but all the fibres arc here very minutely divided. They ascend to the superior edge of the ganglion, again collect into bundles, and diverging in form of flames or rays enter The Great Superior Ganglion. Corpus stri. alum. This is a large mass of grey substance, part of which is placed in the lateral ventricle of each side, and part on the external surface of the cerebrum, where it is covered by some short convolutions. In this grey mass the fibres are again increased, and to such extent, that they are sufficient to form the posterior, and all those convolutions which are situated on the superior edge of each hemisphere ; and having thus been increased, they spread out and form the convolutions. To show the passage of the fibres through the ganglia. On the external surface, Raise the optic nerve from its connection with the great bundle, and cut off thin slices of the under surface of the cerebrum, towards the fissura Sylvii, which will show the passage of the nervous fibres through the ganglia to the in- ternal and inferior convolutions of the middle and anterior lobes of the cerebrum. Tear open the floor of the third ventricle, cut through the commissure of the cerebellum and between the anterior pyramids, turn each of the great bundles to the outside, and expose The internal surface. Slice off the superior ganglion, corpus striatum, and see how the fibres pass through it towards the forehead in numerous small bundles, and backwards towards the pos- terior lobe of the cerebrum, where they are larger. Commissures of the Cerebrum. The similar parts in each hemisphere are connected by a number of nervous fibres, which, like those of the cerebellum, pasff transversely, converge, and re-enter; but it is doubtful whether they arise from the grey substance. These.fibres are stronger and more distinct than those of the diverging fibres,