122 Sect. II. insertion, it is necessary to dissect the middle of the sole of the toot, or the middle plantar region. The integuments are first to be dissected back, in order to display the Plantar Fascia, ajjoneurosis plantar is. This, like that of the palm of the hand, is a strong tendinous expansion, which covers the muscles, vessels, and nerves of the sole of the foot. It is at- tached posteriorly to the tuberosity of the os calcis, and ex- tends forwards to the roots of the toes, and at the sides upon muscles, being strongest in the middle and behind. It is more or less distinctly divided into three portions, the two lateral being spread upon the muscles of the great and little toes. The middle portion, which is the most considerable, is subdivided into five slips, which split at the toes, and are fixed on each side at their roots. Middle Plantar, containing six muscles. 1. M. Flexor Brevis Digitorum Communis. Sublimis perforatus. Situation. Immediately above the aponeurosis. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy from the under and fore part of the tuberosity of the os calcis, and from the aponeu- rosis plantaris. It forms a thick, short, fleshy belly which sends off four small tendons, and these divide to form pas- sages for the tendons of the flexor longus. Insertion. Into the second phalanges of the four small toes. Use. To bend the second phalanges. 2. M. Flexor Digitorum Accessorius. Massa carnea Jacobi Sylvii. Situation. Between the tarsal arch above and the last- mentioned muscle below. Origin. By two portions. The inner and smaller fleshy from the ligament which is stretched between the astragalus and tuberosity of the os calcis ; the outer and larger tendi- nous, but soon becoming fleshy from the fore and outer part of the tuberosity of the os calcis. Insertion. Into the tendon of the flexor longus before it divides. Use. To assist the flexor longus. 3. M. Lumbricales. Are four small muscles, which resemble those iii the palm of the hand. O) 'igin. Tendinous and fleshy from the inside of the tendons of the flexor longus just before its division. Insertion. By slender tendons which spread on the inside