20 Sect. t. giving origin to the M. supinator radii longus & exten- sor carpi radialis longior, and on the inside another line passing to the inner condyle ; between these two lines the M. brachialis internus arises before, and the M. brachialis ex- ternus behind; the outer condyle, condylus externus, which is at the outer side of the lower end of the bone, projects but little, it gives origin to the M. anconeus, extensor carpi ulnar is, ext. communis digitorum, ext. carpi radialis brevior & supinator radii brevis ; the inner condyle, condylus inter- nus, at the inside of the lower end of the bone, projects very much inwards, it gives origin to the M. pronator radii teres, and all the long flexors of the hand and fingers, except the M. flexor digitorum profundus ; the lowest part of the bone has two articular surfaces upon it, that on the outside - convex from before to behind, and from side to side, for the head of the radius ; and that on the inside convex from before to behind, and concave from side to side, for the sigmoid cavity of the ulna: between this articular surface and the inner condyle behind is a groove, sulcus ulnaris, for the ulnar nerve : above the articular surfaces before, is a pit for the coronoid process of the ulna, and behind another deeper for the olechranon of the ulna, around the condyles there are liga- mentous marks. Connection. With the scapula above, and with the radius & ulna below. The muscles attached to the os humeri are twenty-four; viz. M. deltoides, supra spinatus, infra spinatus, teres minor, subscapularis, pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi & teres major, coraco brachialis, triceps extensor eubiti, brachialis internus, palmaris longus, flexor carpi radialis, f. carpi ul- naris, f. digitorum sublimis perforatus, f. longus pollicis, pronator radii teres, supinator radii longus & brevis, extensor carpi radialis longior & brevior, e. carpi ulnaris, e. digi- torum communis, & anconeus. 3. THE FORE ARM, Antibrachium, Consists of two bones, the ui.na and radius. , THE CUBIT. Ulna. Situation. On the inside of the fore arm, attached above to the os humeri, on the outer side to the radius, and below by means of an interarticular cartilage to the os cuneiforme. Description. The ulna is divided into a body, extemities, four processes, ant;' four articular surfaces ; the upper extre- mity very large, scooped out anteriorly to form the greater sigmoid cavity, cavitas sigmoidea major, which faces for-