1 IS Sect. II. the integuments have been removed: they are termed the ham-strings, of which the inner is formed by the semi- tendinosus and semimembranosus, and the outer by the biceps. ยง 3. ON THE LEG. The aponeurosis, which has been already described, is to be attended to in the dissection. The regions into which the muscles are distributed, are : a. The Anterior Tibial, containing three muscles. 1. M. Tibialis Anticus. Situation. Close to the tibia; it is the strongest of the anterior muscles. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy, from the under and outer part of the head of the tibia, close to the peroneus longus. It continues to arise from about three fourths of the outer surface of the tibia, along which it passes down the leg, from a large share of the interosseous ligament, and from the aponeurosis of the leg above. Its fibres pass obliquely to a strong, round tendon, which passes off from it below, and is continued over the fore part of the extremity of the tibia, and behind the transverse ligament of the ankle, to the inner side of the foot. Insertion. Into the inside of the os cuneiforme internum, and base of the metatarsal bone supporting the great toe; its tendon being enclosed in a sheath of synovial membrane. Use. To bend the foot upwards and inwards. 2. M. Extensor Longus Communis Digitorum. Situation. On the outer side of the former muscle. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy from the outer part of the head of the tibia, from the head and anterior edge of the fibula, and from the interosseous ligament, and above from the aponeurosis of the leg. Its fibres pass obliquely down- wards and forwards to a tendon which runs along its anterior edge. The tendon is continued behind the transverse liga- ment of the ankle, and near that part divides into five slips. Insertion. The outermost and shortest of these is attached to the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe ; the fleshy fibres which belong to this tendon are sometimes separated from the common extensor, and form a muscle which has been Called the M. Peroneus tertius. The four other tendinous slips are expanded over the upper surface of the phalanges of the