Sect. VI. 438 The Spiral Tube passes round the modiolus, making two turns and a half from the base to the apex, and gradually de- creasing in capacity. The spiral lamina, (septum seal*, lamina spiralis,) arises from the vestibule, and winds round the modiolus within the spiral tube. Its greatest breadth is at its origin, and gradually becomes narrower towards the apex of the cochlea. It is composed of two extremely thin plates of bone, united at the margin, from which a membran- ous substance, zona cochlece, is reflected on each side. The termination of the lamina forms a hamulus, or small hook, projecting into the infundibulum. By the aid of the mem- brane, the lamina makes a complete septum, and divides the spiral tube into two canals, or gyri, one of which is called the scala tympani, from its having an aspect towards the tympanum ; the other, the scala vestibuli, from its communi- cation with the vestibule. The scala tympani is nearer the base of the cochlea, and begins from the fenestra rotunda; but does not communicate with the tympanum, the aperture being shut by a membrane. The scala vestibuli begins by an oval orifice, between the fenestra ovalis and the ampulla of the vertical canal. The scalae run parallel with each other, and communicate only at the apex of the cochlea. The AQUiEDUCTUs cochlejE is a minute canal, which be- gins at the under part of the scala tympani, near the fenestra rotunda. It descends, becomes larger, and terminates by a triangular opening upon the surface of the dura mater, in the foramen lacerum basis cranii. The openings in the cochlea are three, tivo of which are hlways open, viz. the opening from the vestibule and that of the aqueduct of the cochlea ; and one closed by membrane in the recent stale, viz. the fenestra rotunda. The Labyrinth is completely lined by membrane, upon which are expanded the extremities of the auditory nerve ; and that part of the membrane which is found in the cochlea, and completes the canals, is called Lamina branosa. em-