45 Sect. I. inferior angle is very irregular, it has a deep notch in it which forms part of the posterior lacerated hole at the base of the skull, foramen facerum basis cranii posterius, and is divided into two by a jutting process, jugular process, pro- cessus jngularis, which separates the nerves passing through this hole from the jugular vein : in the inner notch, the aque- duct of the cochlea, ciquceductus cochlece, opens, presenting a conical cavity with its base facing backwards and down- wards. In the anterior face is seen to the inner point a slight notch, forming part of the carotid hole, to the outer side of which is the continuation of the groove for the trige- minal nerve, and below it part of the anterior lacerated hole at the base of the skull, foramen lacerum basis cranii cmte- rim, which before maceration is filled up by a ligamentous structure, and forms part of the carotid canal : extending outwards and upwards from this is the unnamed canal, canalis innominatus, which terminates in the unnamed hoie, foramen innominatum. In the posterior face are, at the extreme inner part, a portion of the groove for lodging the inferior petrosal sinus, the remainder of it being situated on the basilar process of the cs occipitis 3 to the outer side of this is seen the internal auditory hole, foramen auclitivum internum, leading to the internal auditory passage, meatus auditorius interims, and still further out, the opening of the aqueduct of the ves- tibule, aquccductns vestibuli, covered by a scale of bone; above and between the aqueduct and the passage is a little pit or pits, to which a process of the dura mater is attached ; both these faces are marked by the legs of the vertical semi- circular canal immediately above the aqueduct of the vesti- bule. In the inferior face or base is the jugular pit, fossa jugularis, in shape like a thimble, for the termination of the jugular vein immediately before the notch of the foramen lacerum posterius 3 and the beginning of the carotid canal is seen before the aqueduct of the cochlea 3 the posterior inner part of this face is truncated obliquely and irregularly upwards. The foramina in this bone are ten whole and three imper- fect. The ten perfect are, 1. Foramen glenoidcum in the fissura glasseri for the passage of the chorda tympani from the tympanum, and the M. externus mallei into it. 2. Foramen auditivum externum, between the auditory and the mastoid process to which the auricle of the ear is attached, and which is the beginning of the bony part of the external auditory passage. \i>. Foramen stylo mustoideum, between the mastoid and