Sect V. 317 2. ilio-colic branch. A. ilio-colica, colica inferior dex-* tra. It arises the lowest, and passes downwards, and to the right. It detaches a branch which forms, in part, a commu- nication with that portion of the superior mesenteric which supplies the ilium, and is, in part, distributed to the appendix ceeci. It then divides into two branches, one of which descending, supplies the eoecum and adjacent parts of the ilium, the other ascends in the course of the ascending colon, distributing branches to its coats. 3. right colic branch. A. colica dextrci, the smallest of the three branches. It frequently arises by a trunk in common with the colica media, and sometimes in common with the ilio-colic. It soon divides into two branches, one of which ascends to join with a similar branch of the middle colic, and the other, the larger,, descends to join with the ascending branch of the ilio-colic. Both distribute branches to the colon. 4. middle colic branch. A. colica media, superior dex- tra. Arises a few inches from the origin of the trunk of the superior mesenteric, passes towards the middle of the arch of the colon, and divides into two branches, one of which passes to the right, and joins with the ascending branch of the right colic, and the other larger one is continued to the left, and joins with a similar branch of the ascending branch of the inferior mesenteric. Both give off branches to the upper part of the ascending and right portion of the arch of the colon. c. Inferior Mesenteric Artery. A. Mesen- terica Inferior. Arises commonly about an inch above the bifurcation of the aorta. It takes its course obliquely downwards and to the left, and divides into branches to the left portion of the colon and to the rectum. 1. left superior colic. A. colica sinistra superior, ramus ascendens. Ascends in the course of the descending colon, and divides into two branches, one of which joins with the left branch of the middle colic, and the other with the ascend- ing branch of the left inferior colic. Both send branches to the arch of the colon and its descending portion. 2. left inferior colic. A. colica inferior sinistra. Di- vides like the former into two branches, one of which joins with the descending branch of the left superior colic, and the other with a branch of the internal luemorrhoidal, They