198 Sect. III. between the right crus of the diaphragm and the aorta, it is continued up the posterior mediastinum between the aorta on the left, and the vena azygos on the right side; it afterwards passes behind the arch of the aorta, and is continued be- hind and to the inner side of the left subclavian artery till it leaves the thorax. We may now examine the Pericardium. It is the investing membrane of the heart, and like the pleura is a reflected membrane. Tt is situated in the middle of the chest, between the two pleurae, which it separates, and is connected with the tendon of the diaphragm. It is wider below than at the part above, where it is continued upon the vessels of the heart. Externally, where it is attached to the surrounding parts, it appears cellular. On cutting open the pericardium, its internal surface is found smooth and polished, and lubricated by a serous fluid, called the liquor pericardii. At this point of the dissection, it may be well to notice the Situation of the Heart. It is placed between the lungs, behind the sternum, resting upon the diaphragm, with its base backwards towards the spine\ its apex is somewhat lower, inclined to the left side, and corresponds to the interval between the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs. The pericardium gives a close covering to the heart, so as to show the exact figure of this viscus, and is continued on to the great vessels, which are connected with its base. From these it passes off so as to give a second covering to the heart, which is connected with the pleura, and forms like the pleura a cir- cumscribed cavity. Examine the vessels arising from the heart, viz. anteriorly, the pulmonary artery, behind which, and in some measure con- cealed by it, is the aorta: turn the heart to the left, and the vena cava superior and inferior will be seen, placed behind, and to the right: lift the heart from its situation, and the one or two right, and the two left pulmonary veins, especially the two latter, may be seen passing from the lung on each side. These are often called the eight primitive vessels. OF THE LUNGS. The lungs (two in number) occupy the lateral parts of the thorax, and are moulded to the form of the cavities which they till. Being thus exactly adapted to the parietes of the thorax, their figure cannot be regular, they may be laxly described as conical, and have been sometimes compared in figure to the foot of the ox. Externally toward the ribs they are convex. Internally they are flattened with an anterior depression for the reception of the heart: the pulmonary vessels enter them about the middle of their length. The anterior margin is sharp and thin : and in that of the Jeft