Sect. V. 389 continued forwards above the former nerve between the mus- cles, and divides into— «. jRecurrent branch distributed to parts about the knee-joint. /3. Muscular branches to the tibialis anticus, extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis, and peronei muscles. <y. Anterior tibial branch descends with the anterior tibial artery, before which it is placed, upon the dor- sum of the foot, and divides into branches to the skin, to the extensor brevis digitorum, and interossei muscles, one twig passing into the sole of the foot. Tibial. N. tibialis. The inner and more consi- derable branch of the ischiatic, is sometimes, though impro- perly called, the politeal nerve, Avhile in the ham. It descends along the outer edge of the semi-membranosus in the ham, and is situated more superficially than the vessels. It then becomes deep-seated, passes between the heads of the gas- trocnemius externus, and is continued through the leg be- tween the superficial and deep-seated layer of muscles, ac- companied by the posterior tibial artery, to the outer side of which it is placed : it passes down with the artery and termi- nates opposite the base of the tibia by dividing into the inner and outer plantar nerves. It gives off in its course 1. Communicating cutaneous branch, (N. cuta- neus tibialis, communicans tibiae,) which is sometimes a branch of the peroneal or ischiatic. It descends between the gastrocnemius and skin in the course of the saphaena minor. At the lower part of the leg it is connected with the cuta- neous branch of the peroneal, is continued behind the outer ankle and along the outer side of the foot, as far as the little toe, distributing in its course twigs to the skin. 2. Branches to the gastrocnemius, soleus, plan- taris, and popliteus muscle. 3. Branches to the tibialis posticus, flexor lon- gus digitorum, and flexor longus pollicis muscle. 4. Cutaneous branch. (N. cutaneus planter is.) Distributed to the skin about the inner malleolus, and to that of the back part of the sole of the foot. Inner Plantar. N. plantaris interims. Larger than the outer. It crosses the posterior tibial artery imme- diately after it is given off, and becomes placed to its inner or tibial edge ; it is then continued forward above the abductor pollicis in the sinuosity of the os calcis along the tendon of the flexor longus, and after giving off branches to the muscles