426 Sect. VI. cartilaginous or osseous bodies are frequently found. The other two cornua, called inferior, are shorter, curved for- wards, and fixed by smooth articulating surfaces to the sides of the cricoid cartilage. Cricoid Cartilage. The cricoid, or annular cartilage, forms the inferior and posterior part of the larynx, and may be readily felt in the fore part of the throat. It is narrow before where it lies under the thyroid, and thick and broad posteriorly. Its external surface has, anteriorly, a con- vexity which is subcutaneous. Behind, where it is largest, it presents nearly a quadrilateral surface, upon the middle of which is a perpendicular ridge dividing it into two lateral ca- vities for the reception of the M. crico-arytenoidei-postici. The superior circumference is anteriorly hollowed out, to which part is attached the membranous ligament connecting it with the thyroid cartilage. The inferior circumference is nearly ho- rizontal. It is connected to the first ring of the trachsea by a membranous ligament like that which connects the other rings. It has four small articular surfaces, two of which are situated above and behind for the articulation of the arytenoid cartilages, and the two others at the under and lateral parts for the connection of the inferior cornua of the thyroid cartilage. They are provided with capsular ligaments. Arytenoid Cartilages. These are two in number. Are much smaller than the other cartilages, and are placed upon the upper, posterior, and lateral parts of the cricoid cartilage at a small distance from each other. Their form is pyramidal. They have each a concavity on the posterior surface for the M. arytenoidei. Their base has an oval concave articular surface, covered by synovial mem- brane, which corresponds to an analogous surface on the cricoid cartilage, and posteriorly forms a triangular projec- tion, which gives attachment to the ligament connecting it with the thyroid cartilage. On the anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilages, is a glandular body, arytcenoul gland, seemingly composed o fan aggregation of mucous glands. Epiglottis. Is situated at the upper part of the larynx, between it and the tongue, and covers the opening of the larynx. It appears oval, but when divested of its mem- brane, its form is that of a purslain leaf; it is broad above close to the tongue and rounder, but narrows below, and ter- minates in a point. The upper surface next the tongue is convex, with its point reflected forwards, and it is covered by