356 Sect V. chest these again unite to form two or three larger trunks, which ascend behind the subclavius muscle, and over the subclavian artery, and terminate either separately or after having joined with the deep-seated absorbents and head, on the right side in the right trunk, and on the left side in the thoracic duct. § 4. ABSORBENT GLANDS AND VESSELS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 1. Glands of the Lower Extremity. These are rarely found below the knee, one has been, however, occasionally noticed upon the upper end of the interosseous ligament con- necting the tibia with the fibula. a. Popliteal glands. Are small in size, and their number rarely exceeds three or four. They are deep-seated in the fat and cellular membrane, which surrounds the popliteal vessels. ft. Inguinal glands. These, except the mesen- teric, are the largest glands in the body. Some of these are situated superficially, and others deep-seated. They vary in size; and in number from eight to sixteen, but there are generally about twelve. The superficial are placed between the skin and fascia of the thigh, and the greater number of these close together about the termination of the sapluena major, whilst other are situated lower on the fore part of the thigh. The deep-seated are less numerous ; they are placed under the fascia, and close to the femoral vessels. <y. External iliac glands. Are six or eight in number. They are placed in the course of the iliac vessels from Poupart’s ligaments to the lumbar glands. c. Internal iliac glands. Vary in number, but are in general more numerous than the external. They are situated about the branches of the internal iliac vessels. e. Sacral glatuls. Are placed between the sacrum and rectum. 2. Absorbent Vessels of the Lower Extremity. With these are described as in the upper extremity some of the absorbents of the trunk, and In addition those of the external parts of the organs of generation. 1. Superficial Absorbents. a. Of the under part of the trunk. These arise from the under and fore part of the abdomen, from the loins, buttocks, and perineum. They form communications with