Sect. V. 347 more on the fore part of the arm* and sometimes into several branches. These furnish numerous branches which are con- tinued obliquely to the back of the hand, and contribute to form there a considerable plexus. One of the principal branches is found in the space between the metacarpal bones of the thumb and fore finger, and is frequently distinguished by the name of the cephalic of the thumb. (V. cephalica pollicis.) 2. basilic. V. basilica. Larger than the cephalic. It arises from the axillary vein, usually just before it becomes brachial, and is at this part deep-seated. It descends on the inner side of the arm in the course of the ulnar nerve, which it conceals, and gives off a few branches only. A little above the inner condyle of the os humeri it divides into two branches, the basilic median and superficial ulnar. a. Basilic median. (V. mediana basilica.) De- scends obliquely outwards, and unites at an acute angle commonly with the cephalic median. From this junction arise usually two branches, a deep branch and the common median. p. The deej) branch passes deep-seated be- tween the muscles, forming an anastomosis with the deep- seated veins. 7. Common median. (V. mediana communis.) It passes down on the anterior surface of the fore arm, is con- tinued obliquely outwards, and divides into branches, the greater number of which pass round the radius to join with the superficial radial veins. The branches of this vein sometimes supply the place of the superficial radial. 8. Superficial ulnar. (V. ulnaris superficialis cu- tanea.) It commonly divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior, the latter of which is the more considerable. They descend on the inner side of the fore arm, are inclined towards the back of the hand, and divide into numerous branches which freely communicate with the branches of the superficial radial, and assist them in forming a considerable plexus. One branch which is placed between the ring finger and little finger has been distinguished by the name of (V. 3alvatella.) Brachial Vein. Vena Brachialis. It is frequently double, or, if single, divides in its course into two branches, which accompany the brachial artery during the rest of its course. Where the artery divides, each of the veins gives off two branches, which take the course of the