436 Sect. VI, Use. To loosen the membrane by pulling the processus gracilis ol the malleus inwards and downwards, and throwinp- the head outwards. ® M. Laxator Tympani. Situation. At the top of the membrana tympani, and is a very small muscle. Origin. From the top of the bony ring to which the mem- brana tympani is attached. Insertion. Into the top of the short process of the mal- leus. Use. It loosens the membrane by pulling the short pro- cess outwards and upwards, after it lias been tightened by the tensor. J M. Stapedius. Situation. Within the eminentia pyramidalis. Origin. From the cavity of the eminentia pyramidalis, in which it is contained. It has a very short tendon, which passes through an opening in it. Insertion. Into the posterior part of the neck of the stapes. Use. Principally as a ligament, but it will pull the neck of the stapes upwards and backwards. OF THE LABYRINTH. The Labyrinth consists of the vestibule, the cochlea, and the three semi-circular canals. Vestibule. The vestibule has, to the outer side, the tympanum ; to the inner, the meatus au'ditorius internus; anteriorly, the cochlea ; posteriorly, the semi-circular canals. The shape of the vestibule is irregularly spherical; it is about the size of a grain of barley. In it there are seven openings, which communicate with the neighbouring parts; viz.—1. To the outer side, the fenestra ovalis; but which is closed, as has been before described.—2. Above, there are two open- ings which communicate respectively with the vertical and horizontal semi-circular canals.—3. Behind, there are three; one communicating with the posterior, a second with the horizontal, and a third the common orifice of the vertical and oblique semi-circular canals.—4. At the fore and under part, a round hole, which communicates with one of the canals of the cochlea. At each opening is commonly a slight excava- tion. Besides these, near to the common orifice of the verti- cal and the oblique semi-circular canals, there is a small opening, more or less distinct, which is the beginning of a