286 Sect V. 3. The Abdomen and Pelvis, with the arteries injected, for the dissection of the arteries, veins, nerves, and absorbent glands. In this dissection the branches of the sym- pathetic nerve distributed to the viscera should be first traced, beginning at the semilunar ganglion and solar plexus. In the dissection of all these parts the arteries should be followed from trunk to branch; and the veins and nerves, with the above exceptions, should be traced with them. 4. Head and Neck, for the dissection of the nerves. It is supposed that the course of the nerves within the cranium has been already examined, and consequently the course of the olfactory and optic ascertained. The order of the dissection of the rest will be— 1. That of the nerves on the side of the face, viz. the branches of the facial nerve and those of the fifth pair. 2. That of the nerves of the neck, beginning with the superficial branches of the cervical, and then pi-oceeding to the deeper seated, viz. the lingual and its descending branch, the acces- sory nerve, the lingual branch of the third division of the fifth pair, the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves and their branches, and the cervical nerves. All these nerves should be traced from above downwards. The lower jaw should then be divided to the outer side of the symphysis, and turned completely outwards, in order to see the trunk of the third division of the fifth pair and its dental branch, and those parts of the pneumogastric and sympathetic which could not be conveniently traced before. The upper part of the orbit may next be removed in order to trace the nerves distributed to the eye and its appendages. And lastly, the malar and supe- rior maxillary bones may be removed in order to follow the branches of the second division of the fifth pair, and the sym- pathetic within the carotid canal. , In the description of the vessels and nerves which follows, the order of dissection is not laid down, as it would have been inconvenient for reference, and inadequate to a comprehensive view of their distribution; but by attending to the above directions they may be traced without difficulty.