330 Sect. V. which anastomose with the opposite lower articular, and with the upper articular on the same side. 7- SURALES, OR BRANCHES TO THE GASTROCNEMIUS MUSCLE. A. sureties. Arise from the back part of the artery above the inferior articular. They arc commonly two in number, whence they have been sometimes called, gemellcc; and arc distri- buted to the heads of the gastrocnemius extevnus and plantaris muscles. 8. There are usually several other, but small and unim- portant branches, from the popliteal artery. Anterior Tibiae Artery. A. Tibialis Antica. Sometimes comes off higher than the part before described. It passes forward through the upper part of the interosseous ligament, and then descends on the anterior surface of that ligament, first between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum muscles, and, lower, between the former muscle and the extensor proprius pollicis, accompanied by a branch of the peroneal nerve, situated on its fore part, and by the accompanying veins. During this part of its course, it is deep-seated, separated from the skin by the projection of the muscles at the sides, and by the aponeurosis of the leg. At the lower part of the leg it takes its course upon the fore part of the tibia, is crossed by the extensor longus pollicis, and becomes more superficial. It is continued then behind the annular ligament to the upper and inner part of the foot, along which it proceeds as the artery of the foot, (A. pedis,) between the tendon of the extensor longus pollicis, and the inner tendon of the extensor longus digitorum, to the space between the metatarsal bones of the first and second toe, and there divides into a dorsal branch of the great toe and the deep anastomotic branch. The artery of the foot is some- times continued from the posterior tibial or peroneal artery. The branches of the anterior tibial are 1. anterior recurrent. A. recurrens anterior. Arises after the artery has passed through the interosseous ligament. It takes its course upward upon the anterior surface of the head of the tibia, distributes branches to the tibialis anticus, and fore part of the knee-joint, and forms communications with the inferior articular arteries. 2. muscular. Numerous but small branches which pass