434 Sect. VI. and a part of the anterior wall is formed by cartilage ; but the fore part towards the extremity is composed of a dense mem- branous substance. It is lined by a continuation of the membrane of the pharynx and tympanum. Alter maceration the holes in the tympanum are all open, but in the recent state most of them are closed—there are nine of them ; two always open, viz. the mastoid and Eusta- chian holes; three closed by membrane, viz. the external meatus by the membrana tympani, the fenestra rotunda, and the fenestra ovalis, the latter of which is also filled up by the base of the stapes; two closed by tendons, viz. the opening of the canal of the M. tensor tympani, and that in the emi- nentia pyramidalis for the M. stapedius; and two closed by nerve, viz. the opening in the stylo mastoid canal through which the nervus chorda tympani enters into the tympanum, and the foramen glenoideum through which it passes out; the latter also gives passage to the tendon of the M. externus mallei. Ossicula Auditus. The tympanum contains four small bones called ossicula auditus, which extend across from the membrana tympani to the labyrinth. The bones are : —the malleus, incus, stapes, os orbicui.are: the three former named from their supposed resemblance to a hammer, an anvil, and a stirrup, and the latter from its roundness. The Malleus consists of a round head, a small neck, a manubrium or handle, called also the long process, and two small processes, one in the neck which is long and very slender, called processus gracilis; the other in the upper end of the handle called processus brevis. The handle forms an angle with the neck, becoming gradually smaller and incurvated to- wards the extremity, which is connected with the membrana tympani. The Incus resembles a molar tooth with its roots widely separated ; it is placed behind the malleus, towards the mastoid cells. It is divided into a body and two crura. The body consists of an articular surface which forms a cavity with two eminences for receiving the malleus. The crura are of unequal iength. rlhe shorter and superior is placed neaily horizontally, and is articulated in a little depression near the aperture of the mastoid cells. The ligaments which retain it allow a considerable degree of motion. The longer and in- ferior is more slender; its direction is nearly perpendicularly downwards, and parallel with the manubrium of the malleus . it is articulated with the os orbiculare, which is received into a slight cavity on its point, which is curved backwards and inwards.