244 Sect. IV. hypochondrium between the false ribs and stomach, below the diaphragm, above the colon and left kidney. It is con- nected to the diaphragm and to the left extremity of the stomach by a continuation of the peritoneum. Pancreas. It is best seen by tearing through the great omentum, between the stomach and colon. The pancreas is a conglomerate gland, situated in the posterior part of the epigastric region, nearly on a level with the twelfth dorsal vertebra, behind the stomach, above the transverse portion of duodenum, and before the vertebral column, the pillars of the diaphragm, and the aorta and vena cava. It is covered by a continuation of the superior layer of the transverse mesocolon. It passes transversely between the inferior portion of the spleen and the second turn of the duodenum, to the latter of which it is attached. Reflection of the Peritonaeum. The situation of the viscera having been observed, the peri- tonaeum may now be successively traced over those parts to which it gives a covering. As it forms a circumscribed cavity, it is immaterial at what part we commence, provided we trace it to the same point. The Peritonaeum, after quitting the lower part of the recti muscles, is continued over the fundus and posterior surface of the bladder j then passes on to the rectum, and is extended at the sides to the parietes of the pelvis. From the rectum it is continued onwards to the lumbar vertebrae ; on the right side it covers the coecum, and on the left encloses and attaches the sigmoid flexure of the colon. From the lumbar vertebrae it extends to the small intestines, forming' the inferior or posterior layer of the mesentery ; it passes round the small intestines, and returns to the spine, forming the superior or anterior layer of the mesentery. On the left side it is extended over the left kidney, and around the descending portion of the colon; on the right side it passes over a small portion of the right kidney and the ascending colon. After completing the mesentery it again quits the spine, and appears as the posterior or inferior layer of the transverse mesocolon. The anterior or superior layer of the mesocolon is a continuation of the peritonseum from the pancreas above : the two layers of the mesocolon pass to the colon, separate and enclose that intestine, again unite, and pass down as the posterior part of the bag of the omentum; they are then reflected upwards and forwards to the greater curvature of the stomach, forming the anterior part of thebagof theomentum. At the greater curvature