274 Sect. IV. recently and more particularly Sir E. Home (Phil. Trans. 1806), as a third lobe of this gland, to see which it is necessary to cut through the upper part of the gland lon- gitudinally. This natural structure had been confounded with disease, and likewise with a peculiar structure at the neck of the bladder, as described by Mr. C. Bell, (Medico- Chirurg. Trans, vol. ii. p. 171.) From the orifices of the ureters, projections are frequently seen, one on each side, extending to the prostate, and termi- nating together at a slight eminence; these have been called by the French, Trigone de la Vessie; and the slight eminence distinguished by the name of Luette, or Uvula Vesicce. Mr. Bell says, that having dissected up the inner coat of the blad- der, we shall find two fleshy columns that run from the orifices of the ureters, unite, and are inserted tendinous into the third lobe of the prostate. The prostate gland has no proper capsule, but is surrounded with dense cellular membrane. Its substance is of great density and firmness, exceed- ing in this respect most of the glands of the body. Its texture does,jiot present the appearance of any other glandular structure, being apparently composed of condensed cellular substance. The prostate gland has within numerous small straight ducts, running obliquely forwards, which terminate by dif- ferent orifices at the sides of the caput gallinaginis, afterwards to be shown. Vesiculje Seminales. Are pyriform membran- ous cavities. Their situation has been pointed out. Their length is about one inch and a half. They are somewhat flat- tened with slightly convex surfaces and rounded edges. Their posterior extremities, called their base, are broad, and widely separated from each other; their anterior extremities, called cervix, are narrow, and placed close to each other. Their surface is irregular, formed of lengthened tortuous eminences, divided by corresponding depressions. When cut through, the vesiculae appear formed of cells; but these appearances are produced (as becomes evident when they have been un- folded by maceration) by the convolutions of a tube, from which project about twelve appendices, coiled up and united by dense cellular substance. They vary in size, and the pro- cesses differ in number in different persons. The structure of the vesiculae seminales consists of an exterior coat, which is dense and firm in texture, and although not so thick, resembles the coat of the vas deferens ; this being lined by a thin and delicate membrane, of a whitish colour, formed into different folds, so as to give to the interior a reticulated appearance, and the surface not smooth.