Sect. V. 289 excess in the latter being the more common variety, as where the right carotid and right subclavian arise separately; or where in addition to the usual ves- sels, the vertebral, the inferior thyroideal, or more rarely the internal mam- mary arise from the arch ; or where different combinations of these varieties are found. Thus sometimes four, occasionally five, and more rarely six ves- sels, are found to take their origin from the aorta. Occasionally, however, the number is less when two or all three arteries arise from a common trunk. Sometimes, the number remaining the same, the two common carotids arise from a single trunk, and the right subclavian originates sepa- rately from the aorta. The deviation from the usual situation, is when the arteries at their commencement are unusually close together, or separated from each other; or when the right subclavian arises between the carotids, or between the left carotid and the left subclavian. In the latter case it generally passes over to the right side between the oesophagus and trachsea. I. Unnamed Trunk. Arteria Innominata. It takes its course obliquely upwards and to the right, and generally divides after a passage of about an inch, but oc- casionally somewhat more, into the right common carotid, and right subclavian arteries. It is covered anteriorly by the sternum and sterno-thyroideus muscle, and is crossed by the left subclavian vein. Posterior to it is the trachaea. The right carotid and subclavian vessels are shorter than the left by the length of the unnamed trunk. II. Common Carotid Artery. A. Carotis Comtnunis. Ascends in the neck, by the side of the air-tube, diverging in its course from the opposite artery of the same name. It reaches as high usually as the upper part of the larynx, where it terminates by dividing into the external and internal carotid arteries. Its situation above is superficial. Anteriorly and below it is covered more or less by the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, sterno-hyoideus, sterno-thyroideus, and omo-hyoideus muscles; anteriorly and above, it is separated from the skin, aponeurosis and platysma myoides, by the projection of the parts about the larynx, and the sterno- mastoid muscle, to the edge of which it corresponds at this part, where it rises about an inch above the omo-hyoideus. Posteriorly, it has the vertebral column, the rectus capitis anticus major and longus colli muscles, and the inferior thy- roideal artery, a branch of the subclavian. To the inner side, it corresponds to the larynx and trachsea, the thyroid gland, which is sometimes continued partly over it, and to the oeso- phagus which is placed somewhat nearer to the left than the right trunk. To the outer side, the internal jugular vein, and the nervus vagus situated between it and the carotid, take their course: the nerve, the vein, and the artery are enclosed within a sheath of condensed cellular membrane. The sym- pathetic nerve is also situated on the outer side of the artery, but exterior to the sheath. u