300 Sect. V. one of the large roots of the thoracic duct. The absorbents of the descending colon and rectum terminate in the lumbar and sacral glands. p. Of the stomach and omenta. In the stomach may be distinguished a superficial and a deep-seated set. They follow the course of the principal blood-vessels of the stomach. Those of the left extremity pass with the short arteries, and join with the absorbents of the spleen. Those of the upper part arise from the upper part of the stomach ; they pass to the left along the less curvature, and through the small glands of that part; then unite near the cardia, are continued to the right and join with the absorbent trunks from the liver. Those of the under part are formed by branches from the under part of both the surfaces of the stomach, and from the omentum; they accompany the blood-vessels along the greater curvature of the stomach, and pass through the glands which are found in that situation: they take their'course behind the pancreas in the neighbourhood of the coeliac and superior mesenteric arteries, and there join with the trunk of the absorbents of the intestines. 7. Of the spleen and pancreas. The superficial of the spleen arise from its surface, and pass from its convex to its concave surface. The deep-seated arise in its substance, and pass out at the sinus, where they are joined by the super- ficial. Both sets then accompany the splenic vessels to the right, and join with the other absorbent trunks of the digestive organs. Those of the pancreas join with the absorbents of the spleen and stomach. 8. Of the liver. The superficial absorbents of the upper surface are distributed into three or more sets, which have each a different course of termination. One set is formed by branches from the middle both of the right and left lobe, and consists of six or seven trunks, which ascend between the layers of the suspensory ligament, and pass into the chest between the diaphragm and ensifonn cartilage: they are continued through the anterior mediastinum, receiving in their course absorbents from the diaphragm, pericardium, and thymus gland, and terminate commonly in the left trunk, but sometimes in the right, or both. Some of the absorbents of this set occasionally terminate in the thoracic duct before it has quitted the abdomen. The second set is formed by branches from the right lobe, the trunks, of which it is com- posed, ascend upon the right lateral ligament, pass through the diaphragm, are continued upon its convex surface near the ribs, and terminate in the trunks of the first set; some