432 Sect. VI. and at the part where it is defective, its place is supplied bv ligament, which serves to fix it to the bone. The osseous part is continued from the cartilaginous; and is the longer ol the two. lhe canal is-lined bv a continuation of the common integuments, covered by a soft down and frequently by hairs of some length, more particularly at the entrance of the meatus ; and upon it we may observe the mouths of sebaceous ducts and small pores belonging to the glandulae ceruminosae. The skin adheres but slightly to the cartilage, but is firmly united to the osseous part, upon which it be- comes so thin as scarcely to be distinguished from the peri- osteum. It passes upon the membrana tympani, and covers its outer surface, so as to terminate in a complete cul de sac. During putrefaction it may be drawn out entire. At the upper and back part where the cartilage is defective, and under the skin, are lodged the ceruminous glands, glandules ceruminosce. These are small oval bodies, of a yellowish red colour. They each open by a small excretory duct into the meatus. ยง 2. OF THE INTERNAL EAR. The Internal Ear comprehends the tympanum and the LABYRINTH. Membrana Tympani. The tympanum is sepa- rated from the meatus by the membrana tympani ; which is a firm transparent membrane of an oval form, having its cir- cumference fixed in a groove of the bone, and its direction oblique, so that it faces forward and downward, rendering the meatus longer below than above. The membrana tympani is tense ; but its middle presents a concavity towards the meatus, and a convexity towards the tympanum, to which the extremity of the malleus is attached. It is formed of three layers : an outer one, before described, of common in- teguments ; an internal one, which is a continuation of the membrane lining the tympanum, and which it is difficult to separate ; and a third, which is interposed between them, is the proper membrane, and considered to be muscular. In order to examine the tympanum it is necessary to cut away its upper part. OF THE TYMPANUM. The tympanum is a cavity of an irregular figure, situated within the petrous portion of the temporal bone, at the ex- tremity of the meatus, and above the glenoid cavity.