Sect. VI. 433 To its inner side is placed the labyrinth from which it is separated by an osseous septum, in which there are several eminences, and two remarkable openings, called the fenestra ovalis and fenestra rotunda. The fenestra ovalis is situated at the upper, inner, and back part of the tympanum ; its greatest diameter is horizontal. The upper and under edges are convex upwards. It communicates with the vestibule; but is filled by the base of the stapes, con- nected at its edge by a very delicate membrane'. Superiorly, the fenestra ovalis is bounded by a rounded eminence, formed by the aqueduct of fallopius, or canalis stylo mastoideus. Below, it is bounded by another and more considerable emi- nence, called the promontory. It is formed by the outer side of the vestibule and the beginning of the scala tympani. To the inner side and before the promontory is the extremity of the thin bony plate, over which the tensor tympani runs. Below the fenestra ovalis, at the under and back part of the promontory, is a smaller opening called The fenestra rotunda, which is rather triangular than round. It is shut up by a membrane which prevents any communi- cation between the tympanum and the cochlea. Below, and a little anteriorly, is the foramen glenoideum, through which pass the nervus chorda tympani, and the M. externus mallei. Mastoid Cells. Posteriorly, at the upper part of the tympanum is an open short canal, directed obliquely downwards and backwards, which leads to a number of cells occupying the mastoid process, called the mastoid cells. These vary considerable in disposition, number, and size ; but all communicate with one another. Near to and above this passage is a bony eminence, called eminentia pyramidalis; which is hollowed for the reception of a small muscle, the M. stapedius. Eustachian Tube. Anteriorly, the tympanum communicates with the Eustachian tube, or iter a palato ad aurem. This is directed obliquely inwards and forwards from the upper and fore part of the tympanum to the superior and posterior part of the opening of thenares, and terminates at its outer edge, above the palate. It is about an inch and a half in length. It is narrow and rounded at its origin with- in the tympanum, but becomes larger, and terminates in a projecting, wide extremity, with prominent sides. It is com- posed of a bony posterior part, and a cartilaginous and mem- branous anterior part. The bony part forms the posterior third of the canal. The other two thirds are formed by car- tilage and membrane; of these the whole of the posterior.