Sect. VI. 427 the mucous membrane of the mouth, the membranes forming two loose folds at the sides, and a fold in the middle, called the frcenum epiglottidis. The surface towards the glottis is concave and covered by the laryngeal membrane, fixed to the notch of the thyroid cartilage by a broad short ligament, and by two lateral ligaments, and by the membrane to the whole length of the arytsenoid cartilages. It is of a ligamento- cartilaginous nature, and much more pliable than the other cartilages. It has numerous perforations like the pricks of a pin, which lodge a number of mucous glands covered by the membrane. Ligaments of the Glottis. Besides those which have been mentioned, there passes from the projection of the base of each arytenoid cartilage a ligamentous cord, lig. thyreo-arytccnoideum, horizontally forwards, to be fixed by its other extremity to the inside of the anterior angle of the thyroid cartilage. The opening formed between these ligaments is called the mouth of the larynx, glottis, and rima glottidis; it is of a triangular figure, the ligaments being in contact before but at a distance from each other at their posterior extremities. Under these two ligaments there are two others, larger and more distinct than the former, and considered as the proper ligaments of the glottis. These arise from the base of the arytsenoid cartilages, run in the same direction as the former, and like the former are fixed to the thyroid cartilage. In the interstice of the superior and in- ferior ligament on each side, there is a fissure which leads to a small membranous cavity with its bottom turned out. These cavities are the Scicculi Laryngis or Ventricles of the larynx, of Galen. The cavity of the larynx is lined by a membrane of a mu- cous nature continued from the mouth and pharynx, but less red. It is perforated by the mouths of small mucous glands. The Ligaments belonging to the cartilages of the larynx may be enumerated as fourteen :—one broad and two round between the os hyoides and thyroid cartilage; one broad and two capsular between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages; two capsular between the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages; one broad between the cricoid cartilage and the first ring of the trachiea; one broad connecting the epiglottis to the root of the tongue; and the four chordae vocales. And some reckon two ligaments connecting the epiglottis to the thyroid cartilage. Muscles of the Larynx. The larynx has a number of muscles for its different motions. These are of