380 Sect. V. 7. Radial. N. radialis, spiralis. Is of large size, and is formed by fasciculi from all the nerves of the axillary plexus. It takes a spiral direction, directing its course behind the os humeri between the two heads of the triceps ; it then makes its appearance on the outer side of the arm, descends between the brachialis interims and extensores carpi radiales, and divides into a superficial and deep branch. Before the division it distributes— 1. Branches to muscles—a branch to the latissimus cl or si—branches to the heads of the triceps. 2. Cutaneous branch, given off behind the body of the os humeri, which descends on the outer and back of the arm, and is distributed to the skin of the fore arm. 3. Branches to the supinator longus and extensors. 4. Superficial. (R. superficialis dorsalis.) Descends on the inner side of the supinator longus, giving off some twigs to the radial extensors, and then accompanies for some way the radial artery; but towards the lower part of the fore arm it passes backward under the tendon of the supinator longus, and divides into two branches, a dorsal and a palmar. «. Palmar passes to the thumb, furnishing twigs to the skin of the wrist and to the muscles and skin of the thumb, and terminates on the skin of the back part of the thumb. It forms junctions with twigs of the external cuta- neous nerve. /3. Dorsal divides <into twigs distributed to the skin of the back of the hand, to the muscles between the index and thumb, and its principal branches are disposed on each side of the fore and on the outer side of the middle finger. 5. Deep. (R. profundus muscularis.) Passes deep- seated backward upon or through the supinator brevis, and descends on the back of the arm, between the extensors of the fingers, taking its course under the extensor digitorum and the extensor primi internodii pollicis, as far as the wrist, to the parts about which it is ultimately distributed. In its course it furnishes branches to the supinator brevis, exten- sores radiales, and to the extensors of the thumb and fingers. 8. Median. N. medianus. The most considerable of the nerves from the axillary plexus ; formed by fasciculi from all the nerves composing this plexus. It descends on the inner side of the biceps, with the brachial artery, situated on the inner and fore part of that vessel as far as the bend of the elbow: here it passes over the tendon of the brachialis interims, and descends through the fore arm about midway