332 Sect. V. Peroneal Artery. A. Peronea. Compared with the posterior tibial, it is commonly the less of the two, but varies in size. It sometimes arises higher, and not unfrequently lower; and in some instances is wanting altogether. It takes its course down the leg along the inner side of the fibula, between the superficial and deep layer of muscles, situated at first upon the tibialis posticus, then at the edge of the flexor longus pollicis ; below becomes covered by the last-named muscle, and terminates by dividing into an anterior and posterior branch. It sends off, 1. muscular branches. Distributed to the gastrocncmii, tibialis posticus and flexor longus pollicis, muscles. 2. branch to the fibula. Forming a medullary artery. 3. anterior. A. peronea anterior. Varies in size, passes through the lower part of the interosseous ligament, and is continued before the outer malleolus upon the foot, dividing into branches, distributed to the adjacent muscles, and anastomosing with branches of the anterior tibial artery. It is sometimes a branch of the posterior tibial, and sometimes is altogether wanting : occasionally it is a branch of large size, and forms the artery of the foot, in which case the anterior tibial is unusually small, and terminates by joining with it. 4. posterior. A. peronea posterior. Descends behind the outer malleolus, distributing branches to the adjacent parts, and terminates on the outer side of the foot, forming anastomoses with the malleolar and tarsal branches of the an- terior tibial artery. In some rare instances this branch is of large size, and instead of passing behind the outer ankle bends inwards to the hollow of the os calcis, and divides into the inner and outer plantar arteries. Posterior Tibial Artery. A. Tibialis Postica. Is larger than the former. It bends inwards after its origin, and descends through the leg behind the tibia, between the superficial and deep layer of muscles ; and after passing behind the inner malleolus, terminates at the sinuosity of the os calcis, between it and the origin of the abductor pollicis, by dividing into the inner and outer plantar arteries. In its course it is deep seated above, and passes over the tibialis posticus and between it, and the flexor longus digitoruin muscles, covered