Sect. III. 171 corpus dentatum vel rhombbideum ; and the connection be- tween these parts is so firm, that it is impossible to follow the fibres further. This grey substance is to be considered a ganglion, as it answers that purpose ; numerous fibres being sent off, which increase the size of the nervous mass, and ramify in dif- ferent directions. One principal bundle of fibres passes towards the mesial line, and meeting with that from the opposite side, forms the median part of the cerebellum, pro- cessus vemiiformis, which is separated into seven distinct branches •, and these may be seen by making a perpendicular section. This is the primitive or fundamental part of the cerebellum, and is found either of larger or smaller size, in all animals possessing a brain. The rest of the fibres, in form of leaves, pass in different directions, and are covered externally by grey substance ; a perpendicular section shows this disposition, and forms the arbor vitce. A perpendicular incision through the middle of the gan- glion shows eleven branches, and this number is increased or diminished as the incision is nearer or farther from the centre; the incision is to be made from the point at which the corpus restiforme first enters, and in the course of its fibres, so that one-third of the cerebellum is on the inner and two-thirds on the outer side : if it be made farther out, the cineritious substance or ganglion is either much diminished or entirely deficient. Commissure of the Cerebellum, or Pons Varolii. Another order of fibres, which are called transverse, converging or returning, originate from the surface of the grey substance, without having any immediate connection with the ganglion of increase, or with the primitive bundle : they pass in different directions between the diverging fibres, the anterior bundles transversely before the anterior pyramids, and the posterior and median above them : at the mesial line they join with similar bundles from the opposite side, and form the pons Varolii. This commissure serves to connect the two hemispheres of the cerebellum. But besides this commissure, there are other fibres which connect the superior part of the posterior pyramids with the lower portion of the fundamental part of the cerebellum, and others which connect the upper portion of the fundamental part with the nervous mass in the neighbourhood of the cor- pora quadrigemina. And thus the parts of the same side are connected with each other. The space between these ascend-