Sect. V. 3G5 4. Branch, the longest and slenderest, to the inferior oblique; with which commonly passes off the— 5. Branch to the lenticular ganglion. IV. Inner Oculo-mcjscular. N. ocido-muscularis inter- ims, superior, patheticus, par quartum. Is the smallest of the cerebral nerves. From its origin behind the corpora qua- drigemina it takes its course downwards and turns round the crus cerebri; then passes forwards through the dura mater near the posterior clinoid process, continues along the caver- nous sinus below the third pair, and enters the orbit through the foramen lacerum. It goes obliquely forwards and inwards immediately under the upper part of the orbit, and penetrates the superior oblique muscle, to which it is entirely distributed. V. Trigeminal. N. trigeminus, par qidntum. Is a nerve of considerable size. It comes off from the brain at the under surface of that part of the crus cerebelli, which extends'from the pons Varolii, and is there distinctly fasciculated. It passes forwards towards the upper edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and is continued under the dura mater upon the surface of the petrous portion. It here forms close on the outride of the cavernous sinus, the Semilunar Ganglion or Plexus, ganglion semilunar e,plexus gangliformis, an enlarge- ment of a semilunar form, with its concave edge placed back- wards and upwards, and its convexity downwards and for- wards, in which the numerous fibriHae, of which the nerve is composed, 'are interwoven with each other. From the an- terior part of the plexus three principal nerves 'are formed :— 1. Ophthalmic—2. Superior maxillary—3. Inferior maxillary. (1.) FIRST BRANCH OF the FIFTH PAIR, OPHTHALMIC. ("Ramus primus, N. ophthalmicus.) Is the smallest'; it takes its course forward along the outer and under part of the cavernous sinus, is connected with the fourth pair, and passes into the orbit through the lacerated opening. Commonly just before its entrance into the orbit it divides into two or three branches, viz. 1. Supra orbitar. (N. supra orbitaris, frontalis.) The most considerable branch. It passes above the origins of all the muscles of the eye, is continued forwards between the lining membrane of the orbit and the levatorpalpebrse superioris, under the orbitar process of the frontal bone; is continued upward through the foramen supra orbitare, or in the notch when the foramen is not distinct, and is distributed to the skin of the fore and upper part of the head. It detaches in the orbit: «. Branch, (N. supra-trochlearis,) which takes its