Sect. IV. 275 From each vesicula passes a duct, which joins,at an acute angle with the vas deferens on the same side. By the junc- tion of the two, a common short canal is formed, which con- verges towards that of the opposite side, becomes smaller in its course, passes through the prostate beneath the bladder, and terminates at the veru montanum, or caput gallinaginis. Cowper’s Glands. Are two small bodies about the size of peas, of a more or less rounded figure, situated at the back part of the bulb of the corpus spongiosum by the sides of the membranous part of the urethra, covered on each side by the accelerator urinae. They are of firm consistence, of a reddish colour, and are unequal on the surface, having the appearance of conglomerate glands. From each gland an excretory duct, of about half an inch in length, passes obliquely forwards through the parietes of the urethra, and terminates within it. These glands secrete a fluid which is discharged into the urethra, the peculiar properties and func- tions of which are not understood. Urethra. May now be cut open throughout its whole length above. The urethra begins at the neck of the bladder, passes downwards and forwards in a curved direc- tion, first through the prostate, behind the symphysis pubis, and then under; it passes into the corpus spongiosum in the groove formed by the corpora cavernosa; and terminates by a longitudinal orifice formed by two lips at the under and fore part of the glans, from which the fold forming the fraenum is continued. The divisions of the urethra are :—the 'part which passes through the corpus spongiosum: the mem- branous portion; and the prostatic portion. Its whole length may be stated at about nine inches, seven of which will belong to the first division, and an inch to each of the two latter. Its figure is cylindrical, but the diameter not equal throughout. The urethra has three dilatations and three contractions. Its first dilatation is at its origin from the bladder: in its passage through the prostate it becomes smaller, and attains its utmost contraction in the membranous portion. In the bulb it dilates anew, forming the Sinus Morgagni; then gradually contracts towards and as far as the glans. In the glans it slightly enlarges again, forms the Fossa Navicularis, and again contracts at the orifice. The urethra consists principally of a mucous membrane, which is continuous with the membrane that lines the blad- der, and with the skin at the orifice of the urethra. The mucous membrane throughout its larger portion is white: but t 2