Sect. VI. 413 lens. It is pellucid, and thicker than the aqueous, being vis- cid or gelatinous in consistence. It is enclosed within a very- delicate membrane, called tunica vitrea, (aranea, hi/aloidea,) which, like the humour, is quite transparent. This tunic sends processes within, forming cells, in which the humour is contained : as may be seen after boiling, or congelation, or by the action of acids. These cells communicate : so that, if a puncture be made, the humour oozes out through it. At the edge of the crystalline, the tunica vitrea divides into two laminae ; the one of which gives an anterior cover- ing to the lens, and the other passes behind it. By their separation a canal is formed, which passes around the crys- talline lens, and is called the canal of Petit. It contains no fluid; and its two laminae, which are closely applied to each other, may be rendered distinct by inflation. The anterior lamina is called membranula coronce ciliaris, or zonula cili- aris, and has a striated appearance, in a circular form into which are received the folds of the corpus ciliare. 2. Crystalline Lens. Is a transparent body, named from its lenticular form, with two convex surfaces, the anterior of which is less convex than the posterior ; being formed of segments of spheres of unequal size. It is situated opposite to the pupil, behind the aqueous humour; and its posterior part is received into a depression on the fore part of the vitreous humour. The external part of the lens is of a soft gelatinous consistence; but it becomes denser and firmer towards the centre. The central part is composed of concentric iamellze. This is apparent on simple inspection, but is rendered much more distinct by maceration in some astringent fluid or boiling water. The lamellee have nume- rous striae on their surfaces, which pass like radii from the centre to the circumference : they seem, therefore, to be of a fibrous structure. The lens is surrounded by a proper membrane, which com- pletely envelopes it. It is quite pellucid, is thicker than the tunica vitrea, and has been compared in structure to the cor- nea. It is situated between two layers of the tunic of the vitreous humour. Between the lens and its capsule is a small quantity of aqueous fluid, (liquor Morgagni,) which flows out as soon as the capsule is opened. 3. Aqueous. Is contained in the space between the cornea and crystalline lens.' This space is divided into two cavities by the iris, called the chambers. The anterior,