Sect. IV. 255 Structure or the Ducts. The clucts of the liver and gall-bladder, and the common bile duct, are com- posed of two tunics 5 an external, which partakes of Xhe na- ture of the cellular texture, but extremely dense, and com- posed chiefly of whitish longitudinal hbics. Ihe second is a mucous membrane, villous, and in some degree reticulated like that of the gall-bladder. At the beginning of the ductus cys- ticus it forms numerous folds, or partitions, so as to render the passage tortuous. They are generally found tinged by the transudation of the bile. The Spleen and Pancreas are now to he removed with the Duodenum, in order to examine their structure. \ ยง 5. OF THE SPLEEN. The Spleen is of a purple, or livid colour, mixed commonly with patches of a bright red, or black ; of an oval figure, but subject to variations, and sometimes more or less triangular or square. The size varies, differing considerably in different in- dividuals ; and, though in the ordinary use of words there is but one proper spleen, it is not uncommon to find in the great omentum one, two, or more small bodies, of the same apparent structure. It is divided into two surfaces, an external and an internal, and a circumference. The external surface is convex, contiguous to the dia- phragm, (often indeed united to it by preternatural adhesions.) It corresponds to the four last ribs on the left side. The in- ternal surface is divided lengthwise into two parts, by a de- pression, which has been called the fissure of the spleen; in it there is commonly some fat, and at this part the vessels and nerves enter. It is slightly concave, and is contiguous to the left extremity of the stomach above, and to the kidney below. The circumference of the spleen is irregular, being commonly thicker above and behind than in the opposite directions. The edge is sometimes regular and smooth, but is often interrupted by notches indefinite in extent and number. The substance of the spleen is remarkably soft, and yields readily to the finger. It consists principally of a congeries of blood-vessels, in addition to lymphatics, nerves, and cellular membrane ; but these forming a peculiar structure. It is in- vested by a continuation of the peritonaeum, which covers it entirely, except at the fissure ; but here it passes off, being continued with that fold of the peritonaeum which fixes the