Sect. III. 153 The darker substance on the outside, is called the cineritions, from its greyish or ash colour, or cortical, from its surround- ing;, like a bark, the inner parts of the brain : the convolutions are seen each receiving a covering from a layer of the cineritioxis substance, which is not more than from 1 to ]i line in thickness. The inner substance is called medullary, it is white in colour, and much more abundant. Make a longitudinal incision on each side of the corpus callosum, and open the middle or bodies of the Lateral Ventricles, Ventriculi laterales: these are cavities of considerable extent, which occupy the middle parts of the cerebrum, are separated by a septum, and said to contain in each, the plexus choroides, the corpus striatum, the thalamus nervi optici, and the tcenia semicircularis. The Septum of the Ventricles, Septum luci- dum. Is seen by gently raising the corpus callosum. Above it is connected to that body through its whole length, and below with the fornix, but only on the posterior part, for anteriorly, and beyond the separation of the crura, it is ex- tended between the two layers of the corpus callosum. It is of a triangular figure, considerably deeper and thicker ante- riorly, and gradually tapering hindwards. It is composed of two distinct medullary layers, and these are lined by a deli- cate membrane, particularly distinct in cases of accumulations of fluid. The space which is thus left between the two layers is called the Ventricle of the Septum, or fifth ventricle. Fossa Sylvii, but it is nothing more than a fissure 3 it varies somewhat in form and size. It has not been yet de- cided whether it communicates with the other ventricles. It may easily be seen by cutting the septum transversely from behind to before, below the corpus callosum, the sides will then fall down like the leaves of a book. Plexus Choroides. Is a vascular fold of pia mater, partly covering the thalami nervorum opticorum, and continued backwards upon them. Its extent will be after- wards traced. On raising it, the thalami and the taenia semicircularis will be seen more distinctly. On the fore and outer part of the ventricles are seen the Corpora Striata : two pyriform bodies of cineritious colour. They are placed obliquely 5 their anterior larger extremities forwards, and their posterior narrow extre- mities backwards, and a little outwards. Behind and to tliQ inner edges of the corpora striata, are the