Sleet. II. 117 Between the upper tendon of this muscle, that of the semi- membranosus, and the long head of the biceps, is placed a bursa. A second bursa, or sometimes more than one, is si- tuated between the under tendon of this muscle, the tendon of the gracilis, and the internal lateral ligament of the knee joint. 3. M. Semi-membranosus. Situation. On the inner and back part of the thigh, and covered partially by M. semi-tendinosus; although called semi- membranosus, it is remarkable from being in a considerable part composed of tendon, its fleshy belly passing between a strong, oblique, tendinous portion at the upper and under part. Origin. By a strong broad tendon, beneath the former, from the upper and back part of the tuberosity of the ischium, immediately below the origin of the inferior head of the M. gemini. Insertion. By a strong tendon into the inner and back part of the head of the tibia. Use. To extend the thigh on the pelvis, and bend the leg directly back upon the thigh. A bursa is situated between its upper tendon and the qua- dratus femoris. Another bursa is found between its under tendon, the inner head of the gastrocnemius, and the capsule of the knee. 2. M. Biceps Flexor Cruris. Origin. By two heads. The long head arises between the' two former muscles from the back part of the tuberosity of the ischium, by a short, but strong tendon. The short head arises from the linea aspera, a little below the insertion of the gluteus maximus, by a sharp, fleshy attachment. The fleshy bellies of the two heads unite, and are attached below to a strong tendon. Insertion. Tendinous, into the upper part of the head of the fibula. Use. To extend the thigh upon the pelvis, and to bend the leg. A bursa is found between the lower tendon of this muscle and the external lateral ligament of the knee. The flexors of the leg above described, diverge above and behind the knee ; the semitendinosus and semimembranosus passing down on the inner side, and the biceps flexor cruris on the outer side, thus leave a space, occupied by cellular membrane, through which the popliteal vessels pass. The projections, which they form, may be distinguished before