22 Sect. I. which the tendon of the M. biceps flexor cubit! is inserted ; the body, corpus, is rounded along its outer edge, and sharp within, to give attachment to the interosseous ligament: the lower end of the bone is much expanded, forming the base, basis, which has a triangular concave articular surface, with its apex outwards for the scaphoid and lunar bones, sometimes divided by a ridge; on the inside it has a concave articular surface for the lower extremity of the ulna; on the outer edge it has a groove, through which pass the tendons of the M. extensor ossis metacarpi & e. primi internodii pollicis, and on the back three other grooves, the largest of which is the outermost for the tendons of the M. e. secundi internodii pollicis & e. carpi radialis longior, next to it is a small one for that of the M. extens. carpi rad. brevior, and the inner- most nearest the ulna gives passage for those of the M. indicator, extensor digitomm communis & e. carpi ulnaris. Connection. With the humerus above ; with the ulna on the inside ; and with the scaphoid and lunar bones below. The muscles attached to the radius are eight; viz. the M. supinator radii longus & brevis, pronator teres, & quadratus, biceps flexor cubiti, flexor digitorum communis sublimis, f. pollicis longus, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. 4. THE HAND, Manus, Consists of the carpus, metacarpus and phalanges ; of these, part of the carpus with the radius form the wrist joint; the metacarpus forms the palm of the hand; and the pha- langes the fingers. THE CARPAL BONES. Carpus. Situation. Between the fore arm and hand. Description. They consist of eight bones forming an arch, supported by ligament, the concavity of which is placed be- fore and the convexity behind. These eight bones are arranged in two rows, four in each; they are in the first row, the os scaphoides on the outside, on its inner side the os lunare, next it the os cuneiforme, and on the front of that bone the os pisiforme ; in the second row on the outside, is the os trape- zium, next to it, the os trapezoides, to its inner side, the os magnum, and next to that, the os unciforme. Of these bones the first row is articulated above with the radius, and the interarticular cartilage at the extremity of the ulna, and below with the second row; the second row articulates above with the first row, and below with the bases of the metacarpal bones.