320 Sect, V. to the sacrum, send branches through the sacral foramina to the spinal canal, and form communications with the lateral sacral arteries. Common Iliac Arteries. A. Iliacce Communes. Come oil at an acute angle, and are continued out- ward and downward over the last lumbar vertebra. The right passes commonly before the left common iliac vein, the left before and to the outer side of the same vein. About opposite to the sacro-iliac symphysis they each terminate by dividing into the internal and external iliac arteries. The right is commonly a little longer than the left. In their course they furnish only small branches to the adjacent parts. T T 'r‘ a. Internal Iliac ArterV. A. Iliaca Interna. Passes downwards into the cavity of the pelvis, and soon divides into several branches of various sizes. These vary con- siderably in their mode of origin ; sometimes coming off im- mediately from the trunk, and sometimes by trunks common to two or more. They supply the contents and parietes of the pelvis, and muscles attached to it; and are the 1. i Lio-LUMUAR. A. ilio-lumbalis. Commonly the first branch. It passes transversely outwards under the psoas muscles, and near the sacro-iliac symphysis, and usually di- vides into two branches : one of which takes its course up- wards, and anastomoses with the last lumbar, or takes its place, and furnishes branches which pass through the last vertebral foramen : the other is distributed to the psoas, iliacus and to the ilium, and communicates with the branches of the lumbar and circumflex arteries. 2. lateral sacral. A. sacrce laterales. Generally consists of twTo or three branches, sometimes furnished by the ilio- lumbar, or gluteal arteries : sometimes formed by a single artery, which then divides into these branches. The lateral sacral arteries furnish anterior branches, which pass across the sacrum, distributing branches to it, and inosculate with branches of the middle sacral; and posterior branches, which enter the anterior sacral foramina, distribute branches to the cauda equina, and send branches through the posterior fora- mina to be distributed to the under part of the muscles of the back. 3. obturator, A. obluratoria, Varies considerably with