Sect. II. 81 Situation. To the inner side of the last muscle. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy from the inner condyle of the os humeri, and from the fore and upper part of the ulna, where it adheres at the sides to the flexor sublimis and pronator teres. It passes downward, terminates about the middle of the fore arm in a long flat tendon, which passes behind the ligamentum carpi annulare, and through the groove in the os trapezium. Insertion. By a flat tendon into the front of the base of the metacarpal bone, sustaining the fore-finger. Use. To bend the hand, and assist in its pronation. Between the tendon of this muscle, the os trapezium, and the ligamentum carpi, is situated a bursa. 4. M. Flexor Digitorum Communis Sublimis (perforatus.) Situation. Between the last muscle, which partly covers it, and the M. flexor carpi ulnaris. Origin. By a tendinous and fleshy head, from the inner condyle of the os humeri, and adheres to the capsule of the joint; likewise tendinous from the inner edge of the coronoid process of the ulna, and from the fore part of the radius near the extremity of the supinator brevis. Near the middle of the fore arm it is divided into four fleshy bellies, each of which sends off a slender tendon. The tendons pass under the liga- ment of the wrist through the palm. Insertion. Into the front of the second phalanges of the fingers, near their extremities, after being divided near the middle of the first phalanges, to form a passage for the tendons of the flexor profundus. Use. To bend the first and second joints of the fingers. 5. M. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. Situation. The innermost muscle in this region, having to its outer and fore part the last muscle. Origin. Tendinous'from the inner condyle of the os hu- meri, and fleshy from the inner side of the olecranon of the ulna. It passes along the inner side of the ulna, to which it adheres above. It receives also additional fibres from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. Insertion. By a short strong tendon into the os pisifonne. Use. To bend the hand inwards. Betvveen the tendon of this muscle and the os pisifonne a bursa is found. 1 b. Anterior Deep Antibrachial, containing three muscles G