Sect. IV. 259 the extremities of the veins, and on the other furnish the se- cretion of the urine from their own minute extremities ; for which cause the cortical has been called the secerning part of the kidney. The tubular or medullary substance is denser, or firmer in its consistence, and is distinguished by its reddish white co- lour. It is formed of several conical bodies of different size, whose bases are placed towards the exterior, and their apices towards the pelvis of the kidney, surrounded, except at the points, by the cortical substance. These bodies have a striated appearance, being composed of the ducts, tubuli uriniferi,which convey the urine after its secretion in the cortical part, and pass from the base to the point, where they terminate by open mouths from which the urine may be expressed. The points of the cones just described pi’oject, and are called the papil- Ice, vel processus mammillares. These vary somewhat in figure; and also like the medullary cones, in number, being found from eight to eighteen ; but often one cone has two mammillary processes, or two cones unite in one larger process. The points at which the uriniferous tubes begin, and where secretion takes place, are supposed to be small cor- puscules, or acini, which become distinct when the kidney has been minutely injected. Towards these the minute ramifi- cations of the artery pass in a tortuous course. The papillae are surrounded by membranous tubes called infundibula, vel calices, and the points of the papillae project within them. They are sometimes the same in number with the papillae, but frequently vary in consequence of two or more opening into the same infundibulum. They are of dif- ferent lengths, and commonly join into two or three larger trunks, which terminate in a membranous cavity of some size, called the pelvis. It is of a conical form, situated in the sinus of the kidney, appearing partly within and partly with- out its body, and at a little distance from the sinus it con- tracts and forms the ureter. The pelvis is occasionally double. The structure of the ureter, pelvis, and infundibula, is similar in each, consisting, exteriorly, of a membranous co- vering, which does not appear to differ from condensed cellu- lar membrane, and internally of a mucous coat; but which is indistinct. A third or muscular coat has been described as belonging to the ureter, but its existence is doubtful. Capsul/e Renales. Capsu Ice A trabiliarice, Ilenes svccenturiuti, Glandulce supra-rcnales. Arc two small bodies s 2