Sect. V. 385 branches distributed to the muscles of the loins, and the branches to the skin about the hip and groin, the gluteal nerves, &c. The larger are formed by fasciculi from several nerves : they are the obturator, pudic, crural, and ischiatic nerves. 1. External Spermatic. N. spermaticus ex- ternus, pudendus externus. Is derived from the first and second lumbar. It passes through the upper part of the psoas muscle, and descends on its anterior surface. It divides then into two branches, one of which accompanies the spermatic vessels, and distributes in the male branches to the scrotum, cremaster, and cord; in the female to the round ligament, and in both to the skin of the pubes and groin ; the other branch passes behind Poupart's ligament, and is divided into branches. to the integuments of the fore part of the thigh. 2. Branches from the First and Second Lum- bar. N. Abdominales. Distributed to the psoas, quadratus, and transversalis abdominis muscles, and to the skin about the loins and hip. There are generally one or two long branches, which penetrate the psoas, take their course over the quadratus, pass through the transverse and internal ob- lique muscles of the abdomen, furnishing twigs to these mus- cles : are then continued through the tendon of the external oblique, and spread to the skin of the groin and scrotum. 3. External Cutaneous. N. cutaneus exter- nus. Generally derived from the third lumbar. It takes its course between the psoas and iliacus, and descends upon the latter muscle. It is continued under the outer extre- mity of Poupart’s ligament, close to the superior anterior spinous process of the ilium, and divides into branches, dis- tributed to the skin of the fore and outer part of the thigh, as far as the knee. 4. Superior Gluteal. N. glutceus superior. Is formed by the fourth and fifth lumbar, before their junction with the first sacral, to form the ischiatic. It passes directly under the edge of the notch of the ilium, and is distributed to the small and middle gluteal muscles, some of the twigs extending as far as the tensor vagime femoris. 5. Inferior Gluteal. N. glutceus inferior. Is formed by fasciculi from the second and third sacral nerves; passes out of the pelvis under the pyriform muscle, to which 2 c