176 Sect. III. 1st, at the base of the corpus olivare : 2d, across the mid- dle of the cr<us cerebri: 3d, below the optic nerve at its outer edge : 4th, at the point of increase of the fibres form- ing the superior convolutions of the middle lobe : 5th, be- tween the corpus striatum and the thalamus nervi optici, which in the ventricles is known as the tccnia semicirctildHs: and 6th, at the outer edge of the corpus striatum. But what their use is, at present is undecided. From the corpus mamillare are sent out two little bands internally and one externally ; the external joins at the outer edge of the optic thalamus, with the transverse interlacing, si- tuated below the optic nerve. The internal posterior prolongs itself internally in the mass of the optic thalamus. And the internal anterior passes across the grey substance at the junc- tion of the optic nerve, and extends into the anterior pillar of the fornix. To unfold the convolutions. Take off the pia mater and tunica arachnoides, pass the fingers between the great bundle and the tienia hippocampi, penetrate into the posterior and lateral cavities, at the same time pressing gently on the exter- nal surface; a slight resistance is met with at the spot where the diverging and converging fibres are connected by a tissue, which must be torn through, and in this way the convolution can be opened. The same effect also may be produced by cutting off a convolution and boiling it in oil, when the two layers will separate, leaving a cavity between them. 8 3. OF THE PAROTID GLAND AND THE MUSCLES' OF THE FACE. The Salivary Glands consist of three pairs. The extent and connections of the Parotid, the largest sa- livary gland, and its duct, are first to be .traced. Parotid Gland. Is named from its situation near the ear. It reaches from the zygomatic arch downwards to below the angle of the jaw, covering a portion of the mas- seter, and occupying the space between the ascending plate of the jaw-bone and the mastoid process. This, however, is merely its superficial extent; it is continued to the root of the meatus anditorius externus, adhering to the internal pterygoid muscle, is folded over the posterior edge of the masseter muscle, and lies deep seated between the ascending plate of the jaw bone, and the mastoid process. The under edge of it is contiguous to the submaxillary gland, aud is