3. Beep, (N. peroneus profundus, muscularis.) Is % 388 Sect. V. between the tuberosity of the ischium and trochanter major, covered by the large gluteal muscle; descends in the back part of the thigh, between the flexors of the leg and the adduc- tor magnus, and about the middle of the thigh divides into the tibicil and peroneal nerves. The division is seldom lower, but sometimes much higher, and occasionally above the tube- losity of the ischium, so that its two branches are separated by the pyriform muscle. The branches which it gives off are 1. Twigs to the obturator internus, gemini, and quadratus muscle. 2. Branch, connected with the inferior gluteal nerve, to the gluteus maximus. 3. Branches to the biceps, semi-tendinosus, semi- membranosus, and triceps muscles; these sometimes come off’ by a single trunk. 4. Superior cutaneous. (N. cutaneus superior posterior.) Is sometimes separated from the trunk near to its origin. It divides into two branches, one is continued forwards, and distributes twigs to the skin about the tube- rosity of the ischium and adjacent parts : the other'descends along the back part of the thigh, and distributes twigs to the skin, as far as the calf of the leg. ' 5. Inferior cutaneous. (N. cutaneus inferior pos- terior.) Is of a small size, and distributed like the former. Peroneal. N. peroneus, fihularis. Passes down-, ward on the inner side of the biceps, then winds forwards round the head of the fibula covered by the peronei muscles, and divides into a superficial and deep branch. Before this division it gives off a cutaneous branch : thus the branches of this nerve are:— 1. -Cutaneous, (N. cutaneus peroneus externus,) which takes its course downward along the outer part of the leg, between the gastrocnemius and skin, and after being con- nected with a branch of the tibial, distributes branches to the outer side of the foot, and terminates by dorsal branches to the fourth and fifth toes. 2. Superficial. (N. cutaneus peroneus internus.) Passes downward and forward between the peroneus longus and brevis muscles, becomes subcutaneous about the middle of the leg, and is continued under the skin upon the dorsum of the foot. It furnishes twigs to the skin of the lower part of the leg and dorsum of the foot; and terminates by dorsal branches to the inner side of the fourth, and to the three inner toes.