Sect, III. 223 descends on the back part of the neck, and adheres to the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae. 6. Intervertebral Substances. Are the prin- cipal means of connection between the bodies of the vertebrae. They are highly elastic and of a ligamento-cartilaginous struc- ture, and are composed of concentric layers, the edges of which are firmly fixed to the bodies of the vertebrae. The lamellae are made up of oblique fibres, which decussate with each other, and are united by fibres which pass between them. Between the layers a soft gelatinous and incompressible substance is interposed; it is in small quantity at the circumference, but increases towards the centre 5 and the centre-part itself con- sists entirely of this substance, and serves as a pivot for the motions of the spine. The strength of this structure is such, that under injury to the spine it is found that the bone will break sooner than this substance will give way. The inter- vertebral substances are thicker in the centre than at the cir- cumference, and their thickness increases from above down- wards. , 7. Elastic Ligaments. Ligamentci arcuum sub- Jlava. The arches of the vertebne are connected by means of a very elastic and yellowish ligamento-cartilaginous structure. This substance fills up the spaces between the arches, com- pletes the back part of the vertebral canal, and affords a very strong mode of union, but which at the same time admits of a considerable degree of motion. 8. Capsules of the Articular Processes. The surfaces of the articular processes are covered with car- tilage, and are provided with capsules of synovial membrane, which are strengthened on the exterior by ligamentous fibres. ■ ' § 3. ARTICULATION OF THE HEAD WITH THE FIRST AND SECOND VERTEBRAE, AND OF THOSE VERTEBR/E WITH EACH OTHER. In order to display the connection of these parts, the head with the first and second vertebne should be separated from the rest of the spine. The occipital bone should then be cut so as to lay open the foramen magnum from behind, and the vertebral canal should be opened by cutting away the back part of the arches of the first and second vertebne.