300 Sect. V. thyroideal—3. Ascending cervical—4. Supra-scapular—5. Su- perficial cervical—6. Deep cervical : and—into the Inferior, which consist of the—7- Internal mammary, and—8. Su- perior intercostal. These branches are commonly given off just before the artery passes between the scaleni muscles: but they differ considerably—1. in size, as they do not always furnish the same branches:—2. in number, in consecjuence of two or more coming off from a single trunk, and—3. in the point of origin, arising more inwards or outwards from the trunk. Sometimes small branches, are supplied before these are given off to the pericardium, trachaea, bronchia, and oesophagus. 1. vertebral. A. vertebraUs. Is commonly the first and largest branch. It arises sometimes from the arch of the aorta ; this variety rarely takes place, except on the left side, and then seldom elsewhere but between the left carotid and subclavian arteries. It then passes upwards and through the opening in the transverse process of the sixth cervical ver- tebra, rarely through that of the seventh, but oftener through that of the fifth, fourth, or third. It is sometimes larger on one side than on the other. It is then continued through the openings of the transverse processes of the vertebrae above, nearly in a straight direction, as far as the second vertebra, but then becomes tortuous in its course : it forms one bend between the first and second vertebrae, and after passing through the transverse process of the atlas, it changes its di- rection, becomes horizontal, and bends round the root of the articular process in the groove for receiving it; it passes under the occipital bone to the foramen magnum, upwards through the latter, and through the dura mater, and is then • continued at first on the side o% and then below, the medulla oblongata, upon the cuneiform process of the os occipitis up- wards and inwards. The two arteries thus approaching each other, after the course of about an inch within the cranium, unite at an acute angle near the posterior edge of the pons Varolii, or upon it, forming the Basilary Artery, A. ba- silaris. This passes along the middle of the under surface of the pons, and divides near its anterior edge into four principal arteries, viz. the. two superior arteries of the cerebellum, and the two posterior arteries of the cerebrum. The vertebral gives off before entering the cranium : a. Branches to the deep muscles of the neck, some which pass through the vertebral foramina, and are dis- tributed to the membranes of the spinal marrow, and others (and these the larger) at the upper part of the neck distributed