56 Sect. I. mic branch of the trigeminal, and outer oculo muscular nei'ves, out of the skull, and the return of the ocular veins into it, to the cavernous sinus. Foramina rotunda, for the passage of the superior maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve to the parts about the upper jaw. Foramina ovalia, for the passage of the inferior maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve to the parts about the lower jaw. Foramina carotica, for the entrance of the carotid arteries into the skull, and the passage of a branch of the outer oculo muscular nerve out of it. Foramina spinosa, for the entrance of the middle artery of the dura mater. Foramina lacera basis cranii anterior a, filled up by mem- brane, in the recent state, and giving passage to the superfi- cial branch of the pterygoid nerve. Foramina irmominata, for the transmission of the nervi innominati to the stylo mastoid canals. 3. Portio occipitalis, bounded before by the basilar process of the os occipitis and the posterior surfaces of the petrous por- tions of the ossa temporum and behind by the os occipitis. It has in the middle, anteriorly, the basilar process, hollowed out for the pons varolii, and medulla oblongata ; behind which is the foramen magnum ; and extending up from its posterior edge the perpendicular ridge of the os occipitis crossed by the transverse ridge, by which the bone is divided into four cavities ; the two upper for the posterior lobes of the cere- brum, the two lower for those of the cerebellum ; the supe- rior angles of the petrous portions of the ossa temporum and the transverse ridge of the os occipitis giving attachment to the tentorium; the former having a shallow groove for the superior petrosal sinuses ; the latter a deep one for the lateral sinuses, which last is continued down into the temporal an- gles of the os occipitis : the perpendicular ridge giving at- tachment above the tentorium to the falx major, and grooved for the longitudinal sinus, which terminates sometimes in the left, and at other times in the right lateral sinus; the same ridge below the tentorium giving attachment to the falx minor, and slightly grooved for the occipital sinuses. The Foramina in this division are Foramina auditiva, for the passage from the skull of the arteries of the labyrinth, the auditory and facial nerves. Aquccductus vestibulorum, for the evacuation of fluid from the vestibule. Foramina lacera basis cranii posteriora, for the passage of the glosso pharyngeal, pneumo gastric, and accessory nerves