291 Sect. V. muscles below the os hyoides, is continued usually between the os hyoides and thyroid cartilage, to be distributed to the muscles and lining membrane of the larynx. 7. Thyroid branch. (R. thyroideus.) Is the con- tinuation of the trunk. It generally divides into two branches, of which one is continued along the upper part of the thyroid gland, and anastomoses with a corresponding branch from the opposite superior thyroideal; the second passes along the outer and posterior part of the gland, and anastomoses with branches of the inferior thyroideal. Both send considerable branches to the substance of the gland. 2. lingual. A. lingualis. Is somewhat larger than the superior thyroideal. It arises commonly just above the thy- roideal, and sometimes from the same trunk as the facial. It takes its course upwards and forwards over the cornu of the os hyoides, becomes covered by the hyo-glossus muscle, and is continued forwards under the tongue. It gives off a. Branches which are distributed to the adjacent muscles and pharynx. /3. Hyoidecil branch. (R. hyoideus.) Distributed to the muscles above the os hyoides. 7. Dorsal branches. (R. dorsales linguae.) Dis- tributed to the dorsum of the tongue, and to the parts about the passage of the fauces and pharynx. S. Sublingual branch. (R. sublingualis.) Sup- plying the Sublingual gland and adjacent muscles. e Ranine branch. (iV. ranina.) Is the continu- ation of the trunk. It passes forwards at the under and late- ral part of the tongue, close to the fraenum, and terminates near its point, furnishing in its course numerous branches. •3. facial. A. facialis, angularis, maxillaris externa. Is generally the largest of the three anterior branches, and arises a little above the last. It varies, however, in size and origin, it passes upwards and forwards under the jaw behind the di- gastricus and stylo-hyoideus, and is then deeply embedded in the submaxillary gland. It is next continued upwards over the side of the jaw, and is situated superficially at the under and fore part of the masseter. It then passes towards the corner of the mouth, and, after making several turns, it proceeds by the side of the nose towards the inner angle of the eye. It sends off 0 3 . _ “■ Inferior palatine branch. (A. palatina infe- rior.) Distributed to the pharynx, velum palati, the tonsil, and parts adjacent. u 2