79 Sect. II. Origin. Fleshy, from about the middle of the os humeri by two attachments, which extend above the insertion of the deltoid muscle on each side. It forms a strong mUscle, which passes over the fore part of the capsule of the elbow-joint, to which it firmly adheres. Insertion. By a strong short tendon into the coronoid process of the ulna, where it is covered by the muscles in the anterior superficial antibrachial region, which must be removed to see it. Use. To bend the fore arm. A bursa is sometimes found between the tendon of this muscle, that of the biceps and the capsule of the joint. b. Posterior Brachial, containing the 1. M. Triceps Extensor Cubiti, Situation. On the back of the os humeri which it covers from the scapula to the elbow. Origin. By three heads. The long head, caput longum, arises by a short thick tendon, from the inferior costa of the scapula, immediately above the attachment of the teres minor; it passes down between the M. teres major & minor, having the former before and the latter behind it. The short head, caput breve, arises by an acute tendinous and fleshy begin- ning from the outer and back part of the os humeri, just below the head. The third head is called the brachialis extemus: it arises by an acute beginning from the back part of the os humeri, near the insertion of the teres major, and be- hind the insertion of the coraco brachialis. The three heads unite about the middle of the humerus, but continue to ad- here to the whole pf the posterior surface of the bone, and to the condyles. * Insertion. By a broad thick and strong tendon into the upper part of the olecranon of the ulna. Use. To extend the fore arm. Between this tendon and the olecranon is situated a con- siderable bursa; and sometimes one or two smaller ones. ยง 5. ON THE FORE ARM. a. Anterior Superficial Antibrachial, containing five muscles, which are to be dissected by making an incision from the inner condyle of the humerus to the middle of the front of the wrist; this exposes the fascia, underneath which jure found the muscles.