290 Sect. V. feonictimes one of the carotids crosses the lower part of the trachaea. The right, when the unnamed trunk arises much to the left; the left when it arises from the unnamed trunk. This variety requires caution in the ope- lation of trachreotomy. The division of the common carotid into external and internal sometimes takes place higher than usual, and occasionally after the first branches of the external have been given oft’. A case has been ob- served in which the external carotid was a short stump from whence all the branches of the external came off at one point. The bifurcation sometimes takes place lower, than the part above described as the usual place. The place of division, with respect to the larynx, is the same in all ages, byt is situated at a greater distance from the angle of the jaw in infancy before the teeth have been cut than at an after period, especially when the back part ot the jaw is completely developed. In consequence of this, the branches of the external carotid are more exposed in the earlier periods of life. The external and internal carotid arteries pass at first nearly perpendicularly upwards and parallel to each other. The ex- ternal is situated nearer the larynx, and more anteriorly ; the internal takes its course upon the muscles on the bodies of the vertebrae. Their size in the adult is nearly the same; but in infancy, owing to the larger proportional size of the brain, the internal is the more considerable vessel of the two. a. External Carotid. A. Carotis Externa. The external carotid is continued as high as the neck of the lower jaw, where it terminates, by dividing into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. It passes up first to the inner side of the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle and stylo- liyoideus to near the angle of the jaw ; then continues its course between the mastoid process, and the ear, and the ascending plate of the lower jaw, covered by the parotid gland, to the place of its division. The branches from the external carotid may be divided into the anterior, posterior, internal, and superior. The anterior branches are three, viz. superior thyroideal, lingual, and facial. 1. superior thyroideal. A. thyroidea superior. Usu- ally takes its origin from the root of the external carotid ; but occasionally from the common carotid. Sometimes it arises from a trunk common to it and the lingual branch. It varies in size. It winds downwards, inwards, and forwards, covered by the omo and sterno-hyoideus muscles, to the upper part ■of the thyroid gland. It sends off a. Branches to the scerno-mastoidcus and omo- hyoideus muscles and to the superficial parts. ft. Laryngeal branch. (R.laryngeus.)—Thispasses forwards and inwards, and after distributing branches to the