Sect. V. 311 muscles on the exterior of the chest, abdominal muscles, to the pleura, and to the diaphragm, and form communications with the intercostal branches of the internal mammary, and with branches of the epigastric and external thoracic arteries. The last is, excepting the first, the largest; it passes behind the crus of the diaphragm, and divides upon the quadratus lumborum into branches to this muscle, and to the abdominal parietes: these branches descend as far as the spine of the ilium, and have several communications with the lumbar and circumflex arteries. § 4. BRANCHES FROM THE ABDOMINAL PORTION OF THE DESCENDING AORTA. The branches given off from the aorta during its passage through the abdomen are much more considerable than those which arise from it in the chest. They may be divided into those which arise singly, and those which arise in pairs. Of those which arise singly, there are three considerable arteries, usually called the three azygous branches of the abdominal aorta, the coeliac, the superior mesenteric and the inferior mesenteric. They are distributed entirely to the chylopoietic viscera. a. Cceliac Artery. A. Cocliaca. Arises from the aorta as soon as it has passed into the abdomen between the crura of the diaphragm, and is placed near the upper edge of the pancreas. It forms a short trunk which soon divides into three branches—the coronary of the stomach, the hepatic, and the splenic. 1. coronary ok the stomach, A. coronaria vcntriculi, gastrica superior, is usually the smallest of the three. It frequently arises in common with one or both diaphragmatic arteries. It takes its course upward and to the left, to the cardia of the stomach, giving off several branches to the oeso- phagus, cardia, and to the adjacent parts of the stomach. It is then continued along the less curvature of the stomach towards the pylorus, furnishing considerable branches in its course, which descend upon the anterior and posterior surfaces of the stomach for the supply of its coats, and sending small branches to the omentum minus. The coronary frequently gives origin to the left hepatic artery. 2. hepatic, A. hfpatica, is larger than the former. It sometimes arises from the aorta, or in more rare instances from the superior mesenteric: sometimes it arises by two