12 Sect. I. upwards and then backwards and downwards is the crest, crista, which has an inner and outer lip, labium internum Sf externum, to which the M. obliquus externus & interims & transversalis abdominis, quadratus lumborum & latissimus dorsi are attached: the crest is terminated by the superior pos- terior spinous process, p. spinosus superior posterior : below which is a small notch bounded interiorly by the inferior poste- rior spinous process, p. spinosus inferior posterior: and from between the two processes originates the M. sacrolumbalis & longissimus dorsi: before this the bone appears cut out to form part of the greater ischiadic notch, incisura ischiadica major, and from thence begins the Ischium : on the inside of the posterior spinous processes, is a large irregular articular surface for the sacrum, which with it forms the sacro iliac sym- physis, or bird’s head articulation. The ilium is of an irregular fanlike shape, the handle of which is forming the upper part of the acetabulum; it is irregularly convex without, and this part is called the back, dorsum, which is marked by a curved line extending in a curved direction from the superior anterior spinous process to the middle of the ischiadic notch, below which the M. gluteus minimus arises, and above it the M. gluteus medius : the inside is called the belly, venter, it is concave and smooth, giving origin to the M. iliacus ; from the middle of the articular surface for the sacrum, there is an ob- tuse edge extending forwards to the junction of the bone with the os pubis, as if the bone were pinched up, it forms part of the brim of the pelvis, linea iliopectinea, into which the M. psoas parvus is inserted. /3. The Haunch-bone. Os Iscliii. Situation. At the outer and under part of the pelvis, and forming the back and under part of the acetabulum. Description. Continuous from that part of the ischiadic notch, at which the ilium terminates, is the Ischium, which forms the front of the greater notch, and the lowest boundary of the notch is marked by a blunt spinous process, p. spinosus, giving origin to the superior head of the-M. gemini & coccygeus and the anterior sacro ischiadic ligament, opposite to which the bone is very thick, forming the back and under part of the acetabulum : below the spinous process is another notch, the lesser ischiadic notch, incisura ischiadica minor, bounded below by the broad tuberosity, tuber, which has an irregular surface upon it, broadest behind and covered with cartilage, upon which we sit, and giving origin to the abductor and ad- ductor muscles of the thigh and the flexors of the leg : on the inside of the tuberosity is a groove in which thepudic artery and vein lay: above the tuberosity, between it and the under part