266 Sect. IV. dulce odoriferar from the strongand peculiar odour of the secre- tion, which is an oily mucus for the lubrication of these parts. The penis is composed of three portions, two of which form the upper part and sides of the body, called corpora cavernosa; the third is situated below, and is named corpus spongiosum. The Corpora Cavernosa appear, when distend- ed, like two equal, but irregular, cylinders, closely applied and joined to each other. At the posterior extremity they se- parate on each side, at the under part of the symphysis pubis, into a blind conical extremity, somewhat more than an inch in length, called crura, by which the penis is fixed, they being attached to the inner part of the rami of the ossa ischia and ossa pubis.—They terminate anteriorly in a rounded extre- mity, to which the glans is attached. They have a groove above, which lodges the principal vein of the penis, and a considerable depression runs along the penis between them below, for receiving the corpus spongiosum urethrae. They ai*e connected above to the symphysis pubis by a broad tri- angular production, called the ligamentum suspensoriuni; but which appears rather to be of the nature of condensed cellular membrane. The corpora cavernosa are separated lengthwise by a par- tition, or septum, attached by its upper and under edges to the sheath, and appearing to have the same structure. This sep- tum begins at the junction of the crura, but is not continued distinctly to the extremity of the penis. The greater part is composed of parallel and vertical cords, between which are openings, which allow of a ready transmission oiflitids from one of the corpora cavernosa to the other. It has been also called thepecten. The corpora cavernosa have each an exterior elastic covering, or sheath, of ligamentous structure, which has numerous perforations for the passage of blood-vessels. The substance of the corpora cavernosa is composed of filaments and plates of cellular membrane, forming the whole into an in- tricate and irregular network. This is seen after the blood, of which always a considerable quantity remains, has been removed by maceration. The Corpus Spongiosum (or Corp. Spong. Urethrae, from its lodging and surrounding the urethra) is situated under and between the corpora cavernosa. It pro- jects behind the junction of the corpora cavernosa, its poste- rior extremity dilating into a conical rounded projection, called the bulb, bulbus urethra. This is placed between the crura, and extends from the root of the penis to near the anus, connected to the surrounding parts by a dense cellular substance, and attached posteriorly to a ligamentous expan-