Sect. II. 121 The gastrocnemius interims should now be removed, in order to expose the origins of the other muscles. 2. M. Flexor Longus Digitorum Communis. Profundus perforans. Situation. On the back of the tibia; it is a thin penni- form muscle. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy, from more than half of the posterior surface of the tibia, except that portion which is covered by the popliteus. Its fibres pass obliquely down- wards and forwards towards a strong tendon which runs along its edge, and is continued behind the tibia, thence (through a depression lined by cartilage) along the astragalus, where it is bound down by a ligamentous sheath. About the middle of the sole of the foot it divides into four tendons, but just before its division, it is joined by a tendinous slip from the flexor pollicis longus. Insertion. Into the third phalanges of the four lesser toes, after passing through the divisions in the tendons of the flexor brevis digitorum. The tendon, where passing along the tibia, is enclosed in a synovial sheath. A second surrounds the tendon, and that of the flexor pollicis longus in the sole. The tendons on each toe, with those of the flexor brevis, are included in proper sheaths of synovial membrane. Use. To extend the foot upon the leg, and at the same time to bend the third phalanges of the toes. 3. M. Flexor Pollicis Longus. Situation. On the lower and back part of the fibula; it is shorter, but stronger than the former muscle. Origijt. Tendinous and fleshy, by a double order of fibres from the greater part of the lower half of the posterior surface and outer edge of the fibula, with the exception of the under- most portion. The fibres pass obliquely to a middle strong tendon, which passes inwards behind the tibia to the sole of the foot, being continued in a cartilaginous groove of the os calcis, through a ligamentous sheath, and then runs along the , flexor brevis pollicis. Insertion. Into the under part of the second bone of the great toe. 1 he tendon is included in a synovial sheath at the os calcis, and at the great toe. Use. To bend the great toe, and to assist in extending the foot upon the leg. > Before we trace the tendons of the above muscles to their