Sect. V. 395 by double filaments. From the superior ganglion small filaments are detached to the cardiac plexus and pulmonary plexus. The inferior form the splanchnic branches. 1. Splanchnic. JY. splanchnicus. Is formed commonly by filaments from all the ganglia between the fifth or sixth and the eleventh ; but the number of its roots varies from three to seven. These unite to form a single trunk near the diaphragm. The splanchnic passes then through the lesser muscle of the diaphragm into the abdomen, and ter- minates in the Semilunar Ganglion, or in some of the ganglia connected with it. Not unfrequently one or more of the in- ferior roots pass separately to the semilunar ganglion, or join with some of the abdominal plexuses. 2. Lesser Splanchnic. N. splanchmcus minor. The two or three undermost roots of the splanchnic not un- frequently join to form this separate smaller trunk, which passes through the lesser muscle of the diaphragm, lower down than the greater splanchnic nerve, is joined by fila- ments from the upper lumbar ganglia, and terminates prin- cipally in the renal plexus. Lumbar Ganglia. Ganglia Lumbalia. Are situated on the lumbar vertebrae, and are placed more forwards than the dorsal. They are of an irregular figure, much smaller than the dorsal, are placed farther from each other, and are more variable in their situation. They become smaller from above to below, so that frequently thn undermost are not distinct, or are wanting. They are connected with each other by slender filaments, which vary in size and in number. Each also is connected by slender filaments with the corres- ponding lumbar nerve; and filaments are sent inwards to join with the aortic plexus. Sacral Ganglia. Ganglia Sacralia. They are generally four or five in number, and are placed in a row which converges from above to below. The last is situated between the sacrum and the os coccygis, and is united with the opposite by a short slender filament, called the gan- glion impar. They are connected with each other, as well as with the last lumbar ganglion, by slender filaments, and by similar threads with the sacral nerves ; and they send fila- ments to assist in forming the hypogastric plexus. Semilunar and C<elfac Ganglia, and Solar Plexus. Plexus Solaris, semilunaris, abdommalis, ganglion semi- lunare. Form the centre from which nerves arc distributed