394 Sect. V. 3. Inferior Cervical Ganglion. Ganglion cervicale inferins. is more constantly found than the middle. It varies in size and figure; but is commonly of an irregular form. It is situated before the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib. It sends off 1. External brunches, which are small. They sur- round the subclavian artery, and are connected with the un- dermost cervical and first dorsal nerve. 2. Internal branches, which join with the fila- ments forming the pulmonary plexus. 3. Anterior, the lesser or inferior cardiac nerve. (N. cardiacus parvus, inferior, tertius.) Is commonly only found on the right side. It takes its course behind the sub- clavian artery, then before the unnamed trunk to the arch of the aorta ; is connected by filaments with the pneumo-gastric, passes between the aorta and pulmonary artery, and joins the cardiac plexus. The Cardiac Plexus is principally formed by the cardiac branches of the pneumo-gastric and the sympathetic; from the latter of which on each side are given off two distinct sets of nerves which go to the plexus : On the left. On the right. N. cardiacus superficialis, N. cardiacus profundus, N. profundus, N. parvus, whilst the cardiacus parvus on the left joins with the pro- fundus, and the cardiacus superficialis on the right with the recurrent laryngeal. The cardiac plexus passes down upon the ascending aorta to the heart, and in its course sends filaments to the aorta and to the pulmonary plexus, but the principal part forms the coronary plexuses. (PI. coronarii.) The left and more considerable plexus passes over the left pulmonary artery, and is distributed with the left coronary artery. The right passes between the aorta and pulmonary artery, and accompanies, the right coronary artery and its divisions. Thoracic Ganglia. Gangl. thoracic, dorsalia. In the cavity of the thorax the sympathetic passes down on the necks of the ribs and forms between the transverse processes of each two vertebrae a ganglion called thoracic, of an irre- gular and variable figure. They are not all of the same size, and often the middle are smaller than those above and below; the uppermost thoracic ganglion is the largest. These ganglia are all connected with each other by considerable single branches; and with the corresponding dorsal nerves.