371 Sect. V. 4. superior facial. (N. malaves.) Commonly two small branches, which pass more forwards than the for- mer, and are distributed to the orbicularis palpebrarum, and to the parts about the outer angle of the eye, and join with the malar branch of the second branch of the fifth pair. 5. middle facial, buccal. (N. buccales.) Two or three in number; they pass forwards over the masseter muscle, the largest accompanying the parotid duct, and are distributed to the skin and muscles of the cheek, to the side of the nose, and the lips. They form communications with branches of the infra-orbitar nerve, and the buccal branches of the third branch of the fifth pair. 6. inferior facial. Passes forward over the lower part of the masseter, and is distributed to the skin and muscles of the lower lip, joining with the termination of the dental nerve. 7. descending. Commonly two in number. The upper passes forwards along the edge of the lower jaw, is distributed to the skin and muscles of the chin and lower lip, and joins with branches of the dental nerve: the lower divides into two or three branches, which descend upon the side of the neck, are distributed to the skin and platysma myoides, and form junctions with branches of the third cer- vical nerve. IX. Glosso-pharyngeal. N. glosso-pharyngeus. It passes forward and outward with the pneumo-gastric nerve, of which, until of late, it has been considered a part, and is con- tinued with it through the foramen lacerum basis cranii. At this part it has a gangliform enlargement, from which fila- ments are given off, forming connections with the recurrent branch of the pterygoid, with the sympathetic, and with the pneumo-gastric and accessory nerves. It then passes down before the internal jugular vein, quits the pneumo-gastric nerve, and is continued downward and forward between the carotid arteries, and along the stylo-pharyngeus, to the under and back part of the tongue. Soon after issuing from the cranium, it is connected by a filament with the facial, and by another with the pneumo-gastric, and detaches one or two filaments, which descending along the internal carotid, and then along the common carotid artery, join with filaments of the pharyngeal branch oi the pneumo-gastric, and at the lower part of the neck with the superficial cardiac nerve. The glosso-pharyngeal detaches also twigs to the stylo-pharyngeus, 2b 2