370 Sect. V. VIII. Facial. N. facialis, communicansfaciei, portiodura septimi pans. Consists of two portions, one larger; and one smaller, called the portio media, situated between the former and the auditory nerve. Takes its course with the auditory nerve, being received in a depression on its inner side, and is continued with it through the meatus auditorius internus. At the bottom of this passage it separates from the auditory nerve or portio mollis; passes through the stylo-mastoid canal, and quits it at the stylo-mastoid foramen. In this canal, it receives the superficial or recurrent branch of the pterygoid, and is thereby connected with the second division of the fifth pair. It detaches small twigs to the tympanum, and sends oft' a considerable branch to the— 1. chorda tympani, which directed upwards, enters the tympanum from behind, then passes forward be- tween the malleus and incus, quits the tympanum through the foramen glenoideum, and, on the inside of the ascending plate of the lower jaw, joins with the lingual branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. The facial nerve, after issuing from the stylo-mastoid foramen, is directed forward and a little downwards, situated deep behind the parotid gland and crossed by the posterior aural artery. It gives off, 2. branches to the auricle and to the parts about the angle of the jaw; viz. a. Branch called auricular (N. auricularis) which ascends behind the ear, and is distributed to the back of the ear aud to the head—p. Branch (N. stylo-hyoideus) distributed to the muscles attached to the styloid process, and giving off some twigs of connection with the sympathetic and cervical nerves—7. Branch (N. digastricus) distributed to the digas- tric muscle, and supplying branches of connection with the glosso-pharyngeal and accessory nerves. The facial nerve then enters the parotid gland, crosses the external carotid artery, and divides into four or five branches, forming by their junctions a kind of plexus, called the parotid plexus, plexus parotideus, from which branches are sent off to the side of tile face and neck, viz. 3. temporal. (N. temporales.) Two or three in number, which supply small branches to the parotid gland, ascend over the zygoma to the temple, and extend as fat as the forehead, furnishing twigs to the skin and muscles, and forming communications with the frontal and lachrymal branches of the first branch of the fifth pair.