162 Sect. III. usually examined after observing the under part of the cere- brum, and is seen below the pons Varolii: it is broader above than below, and from its lowest part commences the Medulla Spinalis. In the middle in front, it has the two anterior pyra- midal bodies, corpora pyramidalia anterior a, which have their bases above, are compressed where they join with the pons, and are separated from each other by a groove. On each side of these, and separated also by a groove, are the olive-shaped bodies, corpora olivaria; and above them are seen the cord-like bodies, corpora restiformia. If the cere- bellum be removed, between the corpora restiformia will be seen the posterior pyramidal bodies, corpora pyramidalia posterior a, which are immediately below the fourth ventricle, and separated by a groove, which being broad above and narrow below, is called calamus scriptorius, the shoulders of which join with the fourth ventricle, and the nib, crena, with the posterior fissure of the spinal marrow. The Pons Varolii, Tuher annulare. In the common mode of description is said to be composed of two crura from the cerebrum, two from the cerebellum, and two from the medulla oblongata, which are connected together by transverse medullary fibres, embedded in cineritious substance: the white substance is placed on the exterior of the crura and pons, and if it be scraped off, the darker cineritious substance is exposed, forming the appearance called locus niger. • Origin of the Cerebral Nerves. The number of these nerves has been variously estimated from different views of the division of the brain, and from considering some nerves now as separate, now as parts of others. There may be said to be eleven pair. 1. Olfactory. —2. Optic.—3. Common oculo-muscular, or Motores oculo- ritm.—-4. Inner oculo-muscular, or Pathetici.—5. Trigemi* nal.—6. Outer oculo-muscular, or Abducentes.—/. Auditory. —8. Facial.—9. Glossopharyngeal.—10. Pneumo-gastric, or Par vagum.—11. Lingual. 1. Olfactory, JVerv. olfact onus, par primum. Is situated in a groove on the anterior lobes, near to their inner edge. It arises by three roots of medullary matter from the inner and back part of the under surface of the an- terior lobe, where it joins with the middle lobe. The nerve runs forwards, over the sphenoid bone and cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, inclined to the opposite nerve. It gradually enlarges and forms a bulbous extremity, bulbus nervi olfac-