Sect. I. 63 which terminates below in a little hook-like process, into two unequal plates, the posterior, of which the flattest, shortest, and broadest, is called the orbitar plate, lamella orbitalis; and the anterior the lachrymal plate, lamella lachn/malis, is the most concave and narrow, but the longest. Junctions. The os lachrymale is joined above, to the internal angular and orbitar plates of the os frontis ; behind, to the flat plate of the os ethmoide's; below, to the orbitar plate of the os maxillare superius; before, to the nasal process of the same bone and before and below, to the os turbinatum. PALATINE BONES. Ossa Patatina. Situation. At the under, outer, and back part of the nostrils, between the ossa maxillaria superiora before, and the pterygoid processes of the os sphenoides behind: they are of a very irregular figure. Description. The os palati is divided into palatine, nasal, pterygoid, orbitar, and sphenoidal processes : the jwocessus palatinus, like that of the superior maxillary bone is deepest on its inner edge, where it joins with its fellow, to complete the back part of the nasal crest above, and the palatine spine below ; it projects back, forming a little spinous process, to which a muscle is attached ; from the outer edge of the pala- tine rises up the nasal process, p. nasalis, forming part of the walls of the sinus maxillaris, and marked internally by a strong ridge, to which the os turbinatum is attached : be- hind the nasal process, and facing backwards, and rather outwards, is the pterygoid process, p.pterygoideus, having tw'o grooves in it, to receive the pterygoid processes of the os sphenoides, and a middle ridge which enters into the fissura pterygo palatina of that bone; anteriorly this process is rough, where it joins with the tuberosity of the os maxillare superius, and forms with it the palato maxillary canal, canalis palato maxillaris, terminating below in the palato maxillary hole, foramen palato maxillare; through which the palatine nerve and vessels pass to the palate ; sometimes, indeed ge- nerally, there is another small hole behind, which is then called palatine hole, foramen palatinum, to transmit branches of the same vessels and nerve to the soft palate; above the nasal process, the bone springs out into two processes, di- vided by a notch, the anterior is the orbitar process, p. orbi- taris, of a triangular shape, and received between the flat plate of the os ethmoides, and the orbitar plate of the os maxillare superius, to the inner and fore part, and the root of the pterygoid process of the os sphenoides behind, forming a