Sect. III. 173 they send a few fibres to the corpora olivaria ; and immedi- ately before they appear to join with the annular protuberance, become slightly contracted, and seem to terminate. This, however, is not the case, for each pyramid may be traced through the annular protuberance, and appears at the upper edge as the crus cerebri, of which it forms'the two anterior thirds, having increased very much in size during its passage through that part. Tu shoiv the passage of the pyramids through the com- missure of the cerebellum. Make a perpendicular incision through the front of the commissure, about a line in depth, and follow up the pyramids towards the crus cerebri, in a curved direction, having the concavity outwards, and with the knife turn the transverse fibres of the commissure to each side ; the pyramids will then be seen expanding into nu- merous bundles immediately after its entrance into the com- missure, which are increased by the addition of other fila- ments, produced by the great quantity of grey substance in which they are embedded : the fibres mount upwards, and are either disposed in layers, or are crossed at right angles by tbe transverse fibres of the commissure. Having become thus enlarged, they pass out from the upper edge of the com- missure as The Great Fibrous Bundles of the Hemi- spheres. Crura cerebri. These, in their passage forwards and upwards, increase in size by the addition of new fibres, which are produced by the grey substance contained within them ; but it is at their su- perior part, where the great bundle is crossed by the optic nerve, and is joined to it by a soft band, that there is the greatest increase of nervous fibres. These fibres are con- tinued onwards, and expand into numerous layers, which being covered at their extremities with grey substance, form the parts at present known as the convolutions. The ex- pansion of the pyramids thus form the inferior external and anterior convolutions of the anterior and middle lobes of the cerebrum. In order to complete the Great Bundles, next trace The Olives. Corpora olivaria. These bodies, two in number, are situated one on each side of the outer edges of the anterior pyramids, from which they are separated by a groove, and extend up to the inferior edge of the commissure of the cerebellum. From each is sent out a bundle of fibres, which, like the anterior pyramids, pass up through the com- missure, in their course through it are increased in size, and