>Sect. III. 191 Use. To draw the velum upwards, so as to shut up the posterior openings of the nostrils. 3. M. Constrictor Isthmi Faucium. Situation. In the anterior pillar of the fauces \ it is to he dissected in the mouth. Origin. From the side of the tongue near its base. It runs upwards within the doubling of membrane, which forms the anterior arch of the fauces. Insertion. Into the middle of the velum palati at the root of the uvula, where it is connected with its fellow. Use. To narrow the passage of the fauces. 4. M. Palato-pharyngeus. Situation. In the posterior pillar of the fauces, and spreading upon the inside of the pharynx, where it must be dissected. Origin. From the middle of the velum palati, at the root of the uvula, and from the tendinous expansion of the cir- cumflexus palati. The fibres are collected within the posterior arch, and then spread in the upper and lateral part of the pharynx, mixing with those of the stylo-pharyngeus. Insertion. Into the edge of the upper and back part of the thyroid cartilage; some of its fibres being lost between the membrane and two inferior constrictors of the pharynx. Use. To pull down the velum, or to assist in raising the pharynx, and bringing it forwards; it also expands the open- ing of the Eustachian tube. 5. M. Azygos Uvul-e. Situation. In the uvula, it is a single muscle, and to be dissected in the mouth. Origin. From the palate bones, where they are joined by suture. It runs through the middle of the velum palati, and through the whole length of the uvula. Insertion. Into the tip of the uvula. Use. To raise the uvula and bring it forwards. e. Pharyngeal Region, containing four muscles, which, with the palato pharyngei, form the pharynx. 1. M. Stylo-pharyngeus. Situation. Above the stylo-glossus. Origin. Fleshy from the root of the styloid process. Insertion. Into the side of the pharynx, and into the back part of the thyroid cartilage. , Use. To dilate the pharynx and pull it upwards; at the same time it raises the thyroid cartilage.