Sect. I. 42 The Internal Surface of the Hone Is divided behind the foramen magnum into four cavities by the cruceal ridge, the perpendicular portion of which is called the internal spine, spina interna, and the trans- verse, the transverse spine, spinatransversa, and where they in- tersect is the internal occipital protuberance, protuberantia oc- cipitalis interna : the internal spine above the transverse spine has usually a deep groove on its right side for the longitudinal sinus, and beloiv it a narrow groove for the occipital sinus, the transverse spine is more or less hollowed on one or both sides for the lateral sinuses. To the spine above the trans- verse spine is attached the falx major of the dura mater, and to the same part below, the falx minor is connected; to the transverse spine the posterior edge of the tentorium is fixed. The cavities above the transverse spine are for the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, and those below for the cerebellum, and at their anterior extremities are more or less of the termi- nations of the grooves for the lateral sinuses in the foramina lacera, with the posterior condyloid foramina opening into each of them. The upper surface of the basilar process is seen hollowed out broader below and narrow above to receive the medulla oblongata, and on its superior edges are seen parts of the grooves for the inferior petrosal sinuses. The Foramina in the os occipitis are five perfect, and two imperfect. The five perfect are, 1. Foramen magnum, rather of an oval figure, with the long axis from before to behind, through which pass out of the skull the medulla oblongata, and the anterior arteries of the medulla spinalis, and into it the vertebral arteries and accessory nerves. 2 & 3. Foramina condyloidea anterior a t situated within the lateral edges of the foramen magnum, through which the lingual nerves pass. 4 & 5. Foramina condyloidea posteriora, by which veins from the back part of the neck enter into the lateral sinuses. The two imperfect are, 1 & 2. Foramina lacera basis cranii posteriora, completed by the temporal bone, through which pass the glossopharyn- geal, pneumo gastric, and accessory nerves from the skull, and at which the lateral sinus joins with the internal jugular vein. Junctions. The os occipitis is joined by its parietal edges to the parietal bones j by its temporal edges to the mammil- lary portions of the temporal bones; by its basilar edges to the petrous portions of the same bone; and by its sphenoidal process to the sphenoid bone.