Sect. IV. 267 sion. It projects most at the under and back part. The cor- pus spongiosum is contracted where it joins with the corpora cavernosa, then extends along beneath them, and at their ex- tremity is a second time expanded into the body called the glans penis. The glans is of a conical form, having a base or broad part and an apex or tip. The base has an oblique di- rection,- so that the glans is about twice as long above as be- low. It covers and encloses the ends of the corpora caver- nosa, from which it is separated by a continuation of their ligamentous covering. The base is encircled by a prominent margin, most distinct posteriorly, and called corona glandis, behind which is a contraction, often called the cervix : at this part are situated the glandulse odoriferae. The glans is covered by a continuation of the common integuments, which here, however, are extremely thin and delicate. The corpus spongiosum has an exterior covering which resembles that of the corpora cavernosa, but is less dense and strong. Its internal structure also resembles in appearance that of the corpora cavernosa; but some anatomists have considered it to be a congeries of veins. § 2. OF THE PERINEUM. In order to perforin the dissection conveniently, it is neces- sary to fix the subject in the same position as that for the operation of lithotomy. The integuments are first to be carefully raised in that part of the perineum before the anus, which is bounded laterally by the rami of thedschia and pubes. A layer of aponeurosis, more or less distinct, will come into view, of the same kind as has been already (le£crrbCcl.—In tracing its extent it will be found attached to the rami of the pubes and ischia; and if a blow-pipe be inserted under it, the air thrown in will insinuate itself through the cellular mem- brane of the scrotum as far as the groins, showing its con- nection with the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Remove this aponeurosis and the fat and cellular mem- brane connected with it, and in the middle will be seen the .. bulb of the penis, with the corpora cavernosa attached one on each side to the tuberosity and crus of the ischium—these are covered by, and connected with, the muscles of the Genital Region, consisting of four pairs. 1." M. Erector Penis. Situation. Described by its origin. Origin. Tendinous from the inner side of the tubprosity of the ischium; runs upwards, fleshy, surrounding the whole of the crus of the penis. #