53 Sect. I. It joins the two ossa parietalia. The sagittal suture is occa- sionally continued down the os frontis to the nasal spine of that bone ; this part of it then is called the frontal suture. 3. Sutura lambdoidalis receives its name from its resem- to the Greek A. It commences at the termination of the sagittal suture, and extends down into the posterior part of the foramen lacerum basis cranii posterius on each side. The situation of this suture may be described, by carrying a line from the termination of the sagittal suture downwards, and outwards, immediately behind the root of the mastoid process, on each side of the skull. It joins the os occipitis with the ossa parietalia above, and the partes mamillares of the ossa temporum below. By some anatomists the junc- tions of the os occipitis with the ossa temporum, are called additameiita suturce lambdoidalis. In the lambdoidal suture, and not unfrequently in the sagittal, are found several little bones, which, from being of a triangular form, have been called ossa triquetra: they are not, however, to be considered distinct bones, but merely loose pieces, which by accident have-not become ossified to the adjacent bone. 4&5. Suturce squamosce. So named from the overlapping of the bones like fish scales. One on each side commences about a quarter of an inch behind the lowest part of the coronal suture, rises up a little, and forming part of an arch, descends and terminates in the lambdoidal suture, at the posterior supe- rior point of the pars mamillaris of the os temporis. It joins the os temporis with the os parietale. That part of the suture, which connects the pars mamillaris of the os temporis with the temporal angle of the os parietale, is sometimes called additamentum suturce squamosce; the junction at this part is rather denticulated than serrated, whilst the superior part of the suture is scaly, the edge of each bone being bevelled off, in such way, that though one bone overlaps the other, still there is no increase in the thickness of the skull opposite the squamous suture. 6. Sutura ethmoidalis. This unites the crybriform plate of the os ethmoides, to the orbitar plates of the os frontis. 7- Sutura sphenoidalis. This suture is very extensive. It commences at the junction of the outer edge of the spinous process of the os sphenoides, with the inner edge of the glenoid cavity of the os temporis, passes a little forwards and upwards, and then directly upwards to the anterior part of the squamous suture, joining the temporal plate of the os sphenoides with the anterior part of the squamous portion of the os temporis; is then continued downwards and for- wards, joining the upper edge of the temporal plate of the