Sect V. 343 rounded for about two inches by the pericardium : it has to the left the aorta, to the right, the right lung; behind, the right superior pulmonary vein; and before, the cartilages of the uppermost ribs. # Occasionally the subclavian veins do not unite, but pass sepaiately to the auricle. In this case the left takes its course downwards before the aorta, passes round the outer and back part of the left auricle, and being continued in the fossa at the under surface of the heart terminates behind and below in the right auricle. . After the vena cava superior has quitted the pericardium, it gives off the— I. Azygous Vein. Vena Azygos, sine pari. It bends backward, between the oesophagus and pleura, to the vertebral column, along which, and situated on the fore part of the vertebrae and to the right of the aorta, it descends through the chest. It passes then from that artery, either through the aperture for the aorta or through the lesser mus- cle of the diaphragm, upon the first lumbar vertebra, and terminates by anastomosing with the inferior cava, with the first lumbar or with the renal veins. It gives off the a. Right bronchial vein, (V. bronchialis dextra,) which comes off near the origin of the azygous, and accom- panies the bronchia on the same side. /3. (Esophageal, (V. oesophageae,) small branches to the oesophagus. 7. Right inferior intercostal. (V. intercostales inferiores dextrse.) They come off from the right and back part of the azygous vein at various angles, and accompany the intercostal arteries. They are ten or eleven in number; but frequently two or more are furnished by a single trunk. 5. Left azygous. (V. azygos sinistra, hemiazygos.) Comes off about the seventh or eighth dorsal vertebra. It descends inclined to the left behind the aorta, upon the ver- tebra, quits the chest with the aorta, or passes through the appendix of the diaphragm, and terminates, like the azygous vein, on the right side. It sends off in its course the five or six inferior intercostal veins on the left side. Such is the ordinary distribution of this vein, but it is sub- ject to considerable varieties. II. & III. Subclavian Veins. V. Subclavice. These veins, after their origin from the cava, pass obliquely upwards and outwards, quit the chest, above the first rib bend outwards, and are continued before the scaleni antici muscles, which separate them from the corresponding arteries. Having passed the clavicle, they change their name to that of axil- lary veins.