Sect. L 39 the root of the spine, giving attachment to the dura mater, and allowing the passage of a vein. 2 & 3. The openings of the Frontal sinuses, between the ethmoidal notch and the orbitar plates. 4 & 5. Foramina front alia, one behind each internal an- gular process, through which a branch of the supra orbitary nerve passes into the frontal sinuses. The six imperfect are, 1 & 2. Foramina supra orbitaria, usually completed by ligament, situated in the superciliary ridges, about one third of their length from the internal angular processes, for the passages of the supra orbitary nerve, artery, and vein. 3 & 4. Foramina orbitaria interna anteriora, placed about half an inch behind the lowest edge of the nasal process in each orbitar plate, and giving passage t.o the ethmoidal branch of the supra orbitary nerve and artery into the ethmoi- dal cells and skull. 5 & 6. Foramina orbitaria interna posterior a, about half an inch behind the anterior, for the passage of the branch of an artery. The four last foramina are completed by the eth- moid bone. Junctions. The osfrontis is joined above and behind with the ossa parietalia, which junction terminates at aline running horizontally backwards from the point of the outer angular process; between those two points and behind as far as the ethmoidal notch, it joins with the sphenoid bone on each side : within the ethmoidal notch it receives the ethmoid bone which joins to the orbitar plates, at the anterior part of which it unites with the os lachrymale; before it joins by its nasal process and spine with the ossa nasi and ethmoid bone, and by its outer angular processes with the malar bones. The muscles attached to the os frontis are three pairs; viz. M. temporalis, corrugator supercilii, orbicularis palpe- brarum, and it is also covered by M. occipito frontalis. PARIETAL BONES. Ossa Parietalia. A A pair. Situation. At the superior and lateral parts of the skull, forming the vertex or top of the head, and parts of the temples. Description. Externally convex and smooth from before to behind, but rather flat anteriorly, convex from side to side ; internally concave from before backwards, and from side to side, and marked by the convolutions of the cerebrum. It is divided into four angles and four edges ; the anterior superior, the frontal angle, angulus frontalis, sharp ; the posterior superior, the occipital angle, angulus occipitalis,