Sect. III. 161 culled processus vermiform is inferior. From the fore part of the cerebellum pass out the Crura Cbrebelli, each of which is divided into three portions. 1. Processus e cerebello ad testejn, which passes up on the side of the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum to the testes, and forms the lateral boundary of that canal. 2. Processus e cerebello ad p out cm, which passes forwards to the pons Varolii. And 3. Processus e cei'ebello ad medullam oblong at am, which passes down to the medulla oblongata. These three portions are not very distinct as they are merely divided by a furrow; but they are best seen by raising one of the lobes from the pons Varolii. Next proceed to raise the posterior part of the lobes from the medulla oblongata, which is situated beneath the cerebel- lum, and they will be found to be connected by a thin mem- brane, which is part of the tunica arachnoides. Divide the membrane, and look upwards into the Fourth Ventricle : But it is better seen by making a perpendicular section from before to behind through the superior vermiform process, which must be continued also through the inferior : it will then be found to be of a triangular shape with its base in front, and the apex behind, and at the lowest angle is seen the beginning of the calamus scriptorius. A perpendicular section of the lobes of the cerebellum pro.* duces the appearance called arbor vitce, and a transverse sec- tion that called coipus rhornboideum; both of which depend upon the disposition of the cineritious and medullary substance. Between the cerebrum and cerebellum is seen a large white mass called the Isthmus Cerebri, which is formed below by the pons Tarini and crura cerebri, on the sides by the processus e cerebello ad testes, and above by a thin medullary layer, called Valvula Cerebri, which is expanded between the testes, and the anterior part of the superior vermiform process, the latter of which slightly overlaps it. This isthmus is per- forated by a canal, called Iter a tertio ad quartum ven- triculum, which is the communication between the cavities of the cerebrum and the cerebellum. MEDULLA OBLONGATA. Situated before and below the cerebellum, and resting upon the lower part of the basilar process of the occipital bone. It is M