Sect. IV. 281 derately curved, and forms an obtuse angle with the uterus, with which it is connected above. The bladder is situated behind the ossa pubis, as in the maft. Its broadest and most capacious part is placed inferiorly and posteriorly. It is pro- portionally larger than the bladder of the male, and is broader from one side to the other, corresponding to the cavity of the pelvis. The entrance of the ureter will be seen at its under and posterior part. The urethra is much shorter, being only about an inch and a half in length, and straighter than in the male. It is attached to the arch of the pubes by two small fleshy slips, similar tp those described in the male. It begins at the most depending part of the bladder. Its direction from the neck of the bladder is downwards and forwards, so as to make a slight curve. It terminates, as has been described, just be- low and behind the symphysis. Behind, it corresponds to the vagina, to which it is intimately connected 3 while before and above, it is attached to the symphysis, that is to say, to the triangular ligament. At the sides it is connected to the roots of the corpora cavernosa 3 and alike to all these parts by a quantity of very dense cellular membrane which sur- rounds the urethra, and forms part of tjie female prostate. The urethra is composed of two kinds of structure : a dense spongy external one, in a great measure confounded with the cellular membrane, and an internal lining of mucous membrane continued from that of the vagina. It has longi- tudinal plaits or folds, and openings of mucous follicles, for the secretion of a fluid to prevent the irritating effects of the urine. Vagina. From its curve and oblique junction with the uterus, is longer posteriorly than anteriorly; its length is about three inches anteriorly, four and a half posteri- orly. It is not cylindrical, being most capacious in its mid- dle, and of an oval form, having its long axis from side to side. Its structure principally consists of a membranous sub- stance of some thickness. Near the orifice of the vagina, the plexus retiformis, or corpus cavernosum vaginae, is placed 3 when cut into, it appears as if formed of cells, but is, in fact, composed of a plexus of veins. The vagina is lined by a mucous membrane of a greyish colour, often interspersed with livid spots. It is chiefly re- markable for the number of folds, or rugcc, which its surface presents, at the upper part taking various directions, but at the lower part exhibiting a regular arrangement, and becom- ing more distinct. The rugie run in a transverse direction and are disposed in an anterior and posterior column 3 they