Sect II: Practical Points. Fractures :—Of the acetabulum—of the neck of the os femoris (within the capsular ligament)—of the os femoris through the trochantei majoi. Dislocations:—Of the head of the os femoris on to the dor- sum of the ilium—into the ischiatic notch—into the obturator foramen—on to the os pubis. § 3. OF THE KNEE JOINT. This joint is situated superficially. Its figure is principally produced by the form of the bones'which enter into its com- position. It readily, therefore, admits of examination, and alterations in its form from accident or disease are detected without difficulty. It is composed of the os femoris, the tibia. and the patella ; and the parts of these connected with the joint are :—of the os femoris, its condyles, their four articular surfaces, and the depression between them : of the tibia, its head, the two articular surfaces, and the tubercle : of the pa- tella, its two articular surfaces. The knee joint is more complicated in its structure than any other joint of the body, in consequence of the number and disposition of its ligaments, whiph are situated both inter- nally and externally, and are calculated to afford great strength to the articulation ; and, besides these, there are in- terarticular cartilages, which increase and deepen the surfaces of articulation. a. Ligaments situated externally, are five. \ 1. Internal Lateral Ligament, Dig amentum genu later ale internum. Is the strongest of these. It arises from the fore and inner part of the inner condyle of the os femoris, and is attached below to the upper part of the inner surface of the tibia. It is composed of perpendicular fibres, and is broader above than below. 2. Long External Lateral Ligament, Liga- rnentum laterale externum longum. Is a narrow, rounded, but strong ligament, arising from the outer part of the outer con- dyle, and fixed below to the fore and outer part of the head of the fibula. 3. Short External Lateral Ligament, IJga- mentum laterale externum hreve. Is less considerable than the former, and is situated behind it. It arises from the pos-