23 Sect. I. THE SCAPHOID BONE. Os Scaphoides. Description. The scaphoid bone somewhat resembles a boat in shape; it has four articular surfaces; one above, the largest, is convex, and of a triangular shape, with its apex outwards for the base of the radius; one on the back and under part also convex, for the os trapezium and os trapezoi- des ; one on the inner and upper part small and flat, for the lunar bone; and one below it and on the inside concave, to form part of the socket for the head of the os magnum : the rest of the bone not occupied by articular surfaces is strongly marked by ligament. Connection. Above to the radius, below to the trape- zium & trapezoid, on the inner side to the lunar, and below it to the large bone. There are no muscles attached to this bone. THE LUNAR BONE. Os Lunave. Description. The lunar bone is said to resemble a half moon, its convexity being placed upwards ; it is largest on its fore part and projects into the carpal arch; it has four articular surfaces; one above convex,for the radius; one below concave, which with that of the scaphoid bone, forms the cup for the head of the os magnum; one on the outside flat, for the scaphoid bone; and one on the inside, also flat, for the cunei- form bone. Connection. With the radius above, and the large bone below, with the scaphoid on the outer, and the cuneiform on the inner side. No muscles attached to this bone. THE CUNEIFORM BONE. Os Cuneiforme. Description. The cuneiform bone is said to resemble a wedge, the base of which faces outwards, and the apex inwards ; it has four articular surfaces ; a small one on its upper and outer edge, for the interarticular cartilage, which is attached to it; another on the outside, for the lunar bone; one below slightly and irregularly concave, for the unciform bone; and a flat one on its fore part, for the os pisiforme. Connection. Above with the interarticular cartilage of the ulna, below with the unciform bone, on the outside with the lunar, and before with the pisiform bone. No muscles attached to this bone. THE PISIFORM BONE. Os Pisiforme. Description. This bone is named from its resemblance to a large pea, it is rounded before and has a flat articular surface behind.