Sect. V. 383 cervical as entering into the composition of the axillary plexus ; the remaining eleven only, therefore, remain to be described. Immediately after passing out of the vertebral foramina, each nerve is" connected by short branches with the nearest ganglion of the sympathetic, and soon after divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. 1. posterior. Passes backward between the transerse processes of the vertebrae, and is distributed to the muscles situated near the spine. 2. anterior. Takes it course along the under edge of that rib, under which the trunk issues from the vertebral canal, between the layers of intercostal muscles with the in- tercostal vessels, and more or less in the costal groove; but as it advances it becomes farther removed from the upper rib, and, near the sternum, passes upon the exterior of the chest. In its course it furnishes branches to the intercostal muscles, the upper part of the abdominal muscles, and twigs which, penetrating the intercostal muscles, are distributed to the muscles of the upper extremity and skin covering the chest. There are, however, some differences to be observed in these nerves. The first is the largest; the second is much smaller, and from the second they then increase in size, but not regularly, to the twelfth. There is also some difference in the distribution of the anterior or intercostal branches. The first thoracic nerve takes its course upward and out- ward over the first rib to join the axillary plexus ; opposite that rib dividing into two branches, one of which joins with the axillary plexus as above described, whilst the other smaller branch takes its course under the first rib like the other intercostal branches. The second and third differ from the rest in detaching each a branch, called Inter cost o-humeral, to the skin of the upper arm. These two branches penetrate the intercostal muscles under the second and third ribs, and are distributed to the skin of axilla and inner part of the arm as far as the elbow. The Jive uppermost are distributed principally to the pec- torales and serratus muscles. The seven lowermost princi- pally to the abdominal muscles. The eleventh and twelfth distribute branches to the lesser muscle of the diaphragm, to the quadratus and psoas muscles. The rest of their dis- tribution is as before described. , The twelfth dorsal is connected by a small branch with the first lumbar.