256 Sect. IV. spleen to the diaphragm ; with that part of the same which goes to the stomach; and with the greater omentum. Be- tween these are the splenic vessels. The arteries of the spleen are branches of the splenic artery ; 'which is itself one of three into which the coeliac divides. It takes it course along the edge of the pancreas ; at the left extremity of which it divides into five or six branches that penetrate the substance of the spleen at the fissure. These branches again subdivide and ramify so numerously that the spleen appears a mere vascular congeries. The veins are collected into five or six trunks, forming the splenic vein by which the blood is returned to the vena portae. They are larger than the arteries. The intimate structure has not been clearly explained. If a healthy spleen be cut through, its texture readily yields. The cut surfaces present a spongy appearance, intermixed with small granular bodies varying in size and of a greyish colour. These have been called the acini of the spleen. After maceration, when the cellular texture of the spleen has been in a great measure destroyed, the ramifications of the splenic artery are seen to terminate in these little bodies, which on minute injection seem to be a congeries of vessels. If the cut surface of the spleen be scraped, there exudes a quantity of livid half-coagulated blood, supposed by some to have remained in the capillary vessels of the spleen, whilst other anatomists con- ceive that it had been deposited in a cellular structure interposed between the arteries and veins, as in the placenta and corpus cavernosum of the penis. That the spleen consists in a great measure of a cellular texture may be seen when the blood is evacuated by repeated washing, or by in- flating and partly drying it; it will be then found to be made up of a net- work of firm fibres, crossing each other in all directions. The connection of this structure with the blood-vessels may be demonstrated by blowing air either through the arteries or through the veins; for in so doing the whole spleen becomes inflated. The communication is much freer with the veins, however, than with the arteries, for even a coarse injection will find its way from the veins, but no injection will pass from the arteries without rupture. ยง 6. OF THE PANCREAS. The pancreas is a conglomerate gland of a yellowish colour, long and narrow, and flattened both anteriorly and posterior^. It is divided into two extremities; two surfaces, an anterior and a posterior ; and two edges, a superior and an inferior. The superior edge is thicker than the inferior ; and upon it is a depression which lodges the splenic artery. The right extremity, called sometimes the head of the pancreas, is larger than the left, and adheres to the second curve of the duodenum. From this extremity there generally extends along the duodenum a process called the Lesser Pancreas. The left extremity is connected with the spleen. In structure it