Sect. IV. 233 The edo-e which it forms at this partis, however, indistinct,as will beliereafter explained. Above, and a little to the outer side of the spinous process of the os pubis, the fibres of the tendon of the external oblique, interlaced as it were by other tendinous fibres, separate to form an opening which is called the Abdominal Ring, or to distinguish it from another open- ing presently to be spoken of, the external abdominal ring j it is, however, neither round, nor does it seem an opening, be- ing occupied in some measure by cellular membrane. Through it the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female pass from the parietes of the abdomen, the former to the scrotum becoming invested at this part as before de- scribed by the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and the latter to terminate in the mons veneris. The next part of the dissection consists in tracing the ob- lique course of the cord from its quitting the abdomen to the part where it appears externally. This is to be done by car- rying an incision from a little above the external abdominal ring, in a somewhat semicircular direction outwards to the opposite and near the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. Detaching then the tendon from the parts behind, above and below, the lowest fibres of the internal oblique will be seen, particularly those which pass from the outer half of Poupart’s ligament to the pubes, being however neither strong nor numerous. Beneath the under edge of the inter- nal oblique the spermatic cord passes obliquely to the exter- nal opening, acquiring here a part of its muscular covering, some of the fibres of the cremaster muscle being given off from the internal oblique. An incision through the in- ternal, like that through the external oblique, shows the transversalis muscle disposed much in the same way as the internal oblique, its fibres few and weak, where aris- ing from Poupart’s ligament, and becoming tendinous to- wards the pubes behind the external opening. The rest of the cremaster not furnished by the internal oblique is derived from the transversalis. It will be evident from the foregoing description, that if a blunt instrument be passed through the external abdominal ring, it will be prevented from passing into the abdomen by the interposition of the tendon of the transversalis muscle. The fibres of the transversalis are now to be cautiously raised, beginning near to the spinous process of the ilium, and cutting through the cremaster. A fascia will then be found to line its posterior surface, composed of two portions ; that on the outer side of the spermatic cord is of considerable thickness near to the ilium; and that on the inner side of the cord springs from the pubes, descends be- hind Poupart’s ligament on the femoral vessels, and is slightly