308 Sect. V. of the profunda superior, and is then called the communicating ulnar (R. communicans ulnaris.) It descends upon the tri- ceps on the inner side of the arm distributing branches to it, and anastomoses below with the recurrent ulnar branch of the ulnar artery, and recurrent interosseal branch. 3. muscular branches, variable in size and number, and distributed to the biceps, coraco-brachialis, brachialis in- terims, which are given off during the course of the brachial artery. 4. anastomotic branch. It. anastomoticus. Arises about two inches above the elbow; passes inwards over the bra- chialis interims, furnishing branches both to it, and to parts about the elbow-joint; inosculates behind the inner condyle with the recurrent ulnar, and thus communicates with the other anastomosing branches. The place at which the brachial artery divides into radial and ulnar arteries has been already described as just below the bend of the elbow upon the tendon of the brachialis in- ternus. Sometimes, though rarely, the division takes place lower down. But it frequently takes place higher up, at any point between the usual place of division and the axilla. In this latter case, the radial takes its course superficially; and the ulnar sometimes passes in the situation of the brachial artery, but occasionally superficially, being continued over the heads of the flexor muscles between the fascia and skin. Sometimes the common interosseal is given off in the Upper arm. Another variety is that sometimes one or more consi- derable additional branches (vasa aberrantia) arc given off from the upper part of the brachial, and after descending su- perficially terminate in the lower part of the brachial, or more commonly in one of the arteries of the fore arm, espe- cially the radial. These varieties are found on one or both sides, more commonly on both : they are important with re- spect to surgical practice, as in the greater number of in- stances above cited they would be more exposed to injury, but would at the same time allow a more ready passage for the blood when its course through the principal trunk had been obstructed ; and they would also cause difficulty in operation. Radial Artery, A. Radialis. Is commonly smaller than the ulnar, but is continued more in the direction of the brachial, and situated more superficially.