Sect. I.1 11 The muscles attached to the sternum are the M. pectorales majores, sterno mastoidei, sterno hyoidei, sterno thyroidei, sterno costalis, intercostales interni. General View of the Thorax. The Thorax, composed of the dorsal vertebrae, sternum and ribs with their cartilages, resembles a cone, the base of which is below and the apex above : the base is very wide, particu- larly in a transverse direction, and is remarkable for a deep notch which is bounded laterally by the margins of the car- tilages of the ribs, and has projecting into it from above the point of the ensiform cartilage : the apex is truncated, leaving an oval opening, which is longest from side to side, through which pass the trachea, the oesophagus, the great vessels of the upper extremities and head, and the nerves of the thoracic and abdominal viscera. As to the relative proportions of the thorax in the male and female, in the former it is highest, and in the latter widest. 3. THE PELVIS Is the large bony cavity situated at, and forming the lowest part of the trunk, by means of which its weight,is transmitted to the lower extremities. It consists of a pair and two single bones, the ossa innominata, os sacrum, and os coccygis. I UNNAMED BONES, Ossa Innominata. A pair. Situation. On the sides and front of the Pelvis. Each Os In- nominatum is usually described as consisting of three portions, viz. os ini, os ischii and os pubis. Into which it is found divided in the young subject: but at the age of puberty or soon after, the three pieces become united and form one bone. a. Hip-bone, Os Ilii. Situation. At the upper and outer part of the pelvis and forming the projection called the Hip. Description. The lower part of the bone forming the upper part of the acetabulum or articular cavity for the head of the thigh bone, has above it a smooth surface, over which the M. psoas magnus & iliacus pass from the abdomen : bounding this to the outer side, and above, is the inferior anterior spinous process, p. spinosus inferior anterior, to which one head of the M. rectus femoris is attached, above which is a notch bounded superiorly by the superior anterior spinous process, p. spi- nosus superior anterior, to which the M. tensor vaginae femoris & sartorius are attached : extending backwards and