Sect. V. 369 to the inferior maxillary foramen. Before entering that opening it detaches a branch which takes its course on the inside of the lower jaw to the mylo-hyoideus, to which and to the submaxillary gland it is distributed. The nerve then enters the alveolar canal, along which it passes, distributing branches in its course to the teeth of the under jaw. It passes out through the mental foramen and divides under the de- pressor anguli oris into branches distributed to the skin and muscles of the chin and lower lip, and to the membrane and glands of the mouth. 7. Lingual, gustatory. (N. lingualis gustatorius.) Takes its course downward and forward behind the pterygoideus externus, where it receives the communicating branch, chorda tympani, of the facial; is continued between the pterygoidei, then between the interims and the ascending plate of the lower jaw. Near the angle of the jaw, and above the sub- maxillary gland, it sends branches to this gland, which some- times come off from an enlargement of the nerve called the maxillary ganglion. The nerve then passes forward with the duct of the submaxillary gland, between the sublingual gland and the hyo-glossus muscle, giving off branches to the sublingual gland and to the membrane of the mouth, which communicate with the lingual nerve; and divides into branches, which passing principally to the apex and sides of the tongue, are distributed to the skin which covers these. VI. Outer Ocujlo-muscular. JV. oculo-mnscularis ex- ternus, abducens, par sextum. Takes its course from the posterior edge of the pons Varolii, forward and outward, passes through the dura mater near the posterior clinoid process, and is continued on the outer side of the internal carotid artery between it and the ophthalmic branch of the fifth pair along the cavernous sinus, protected from the blood which it contains by the lining membrane of the sinus. It detaches some filaments by which it is connected with the sympathetic, and passing through the foramen lacerum or- bitare, is distributed entirely to the abductor oculi. It some- times detaches a twig to the lenticular ganglion. VII. Auditory. JV. auditorius, acusticus, portio mollis, par septimum. After passing round the crus cerebelli, it takes its course outwards and forwards, and enters the meatus auditorius internus, along which it is continued. In this canal it divides into two branches for the supply of the la- byrinth of the ear; one of which is distributed to the rperti- brane of the cochlea, and the other to that of the vestibule and semi-circular canals. 2 b