78 Sect. II. biceps muscle, with which it is connected through a great part of its length. Insertion. Tendinous and fleshy into the inner part of the os humeri, near its middle. It is sometimes continued into the brachialis interims. Use. To raise the arm upwards and forwards. An imperfect bursa is formed between its tendon above, and that of the biceps and capsular ligament of the shoulder- joint. 2. M. Biceps Flexor Cubiti. Situation. In front of the arm: it is a long muscle, con- sisting of two heads, a longer and a shorter, which remain se- parated for some way, and are afterwards united : the M. del- toides must be turned off to exhibit its origins. Origin. The long head, caput longum, situated on the outer side, arises by a slender tendon from the upper edge of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, passes over the head of the os humeri within the joint, and descends exterior to the cap- sule between the tubercles, along the bicipital grove, sur- rounded by a tendinous sheath, derived from the capsular ligament. The short head, caput breve, arises tendinous and fleshy from the coracoid process of the scapula, in com- mon with the coraco-bracliialis muscle. The two heads are united a little below the middle of the fore part of the os hu- meri, and form a muscle of which the outline is distinct when covered by the integuments. Insertion. By a tendinous slip into the fascia of the fore arm and by a strong roundish tendon into the inner side of the tubercle of the radius; but which cannot be distinctly seen till the M. pronator radii teres be removed. Use. To bend the fore arm upon the upper; it also ren- ders the hand supine. Along the inner side of this muscle pass the principal ves- sels of the extremity. These are placed on the anterior part of the arm, to the inner side of the biceps muscle, as far as the bend of the elbow : at this part a division takes place, ^ and during the greater part of the rest of their course, they become situated on either side of the fore arm, in the region of the radius and ulna. A considerable bursa is situated between the lower tendon . of this muscle and the tubercle of the radius. 3. M. Brachialis Internus. Situation. On the anterior surface of the lower half of the arm, and in part covered by the M. biceps.