172 Sect. III. log fibres, is called the calamus scripforius} or cistcrna ccre- Oelli, within which are seen the origins of the auditory nerves, in shape of bands. OF THE CEREBRUM. The Cerebrum consists of a number of primitive bundles, which; are formed of the grey substance in the medulla ob- longata; they pass up through the commissure of the cerebellum to the thalami nervorum opticorum and corpora striata, which are specially considered as ganglia, and de- scribed as the great inferior and great superior ganglia of the cerebrum. From these, in their passage, they ac- quire an increased number of nervous fibres, are expanded to form the convolutions, and being covered by the grey sub- stance, derive from it also additional fibres. These fibres, from their course, are called the longitudinal, diverging or de- parting fibres; or, from the constant increase which takes place in them, the apparatus of formation. The primitive bundles may be enumerated as the anterior and posterior pyramids; the bundles from the corpora olivaria, the longitudinal fibres which assist in forming the fourth ventricle, and some others which are hidden in the medulla oblongata. All these fibres originate on the same side as that in which they form part of the cerebrum; with the exception of the anterior pyramids, which decussate, the fibres on the left side, passing over to the right, and those on the right passing to the left side of the cerebrum. The Anterior Pyramids. Corpora pyramidalia anterior a. These are two in number, rather more than an inch in length, situated in front of the medulla oblongata, and se- parated from each other by the continuation of the anterior fissure of the spinal marrow ; and soon after their formation they send off four or five little cords or threads which pass between one another to the opposite side, and as they rise up on the fore part of the medulla oblongata increase in size, so that when they approach the- annular protuberance (pons Varolii) they are broader than at their origin, which has given rise to their name, pyramids. To show the decussation, it is only requisite to remove carefully the pia mater from the pyramids, and turning aside tiic two edges of the anterior fissure, the decussation will be immediately seen, the fibres from the right crossing to the left, and those of the left to the right side, forming a kind of interlacing like a straw-plait. As the pyramids pass up