Sect. II. 105 the radius, and is loosely attached to the styloid process of the ulna. It is hollowed above and below. The synovial membrane of the wrist joint is attached to its under surface, and the sacciform ligament to its upper surface ; so that the extremity of the ulna and superior surface of the cartilage are excluded* from the wrist joint, but communicate with the articulation between the under extremities of the radius and ulna. The proper joint of the wrist is therefore formed by the articular surface of the radius and the inferior surface of the interarticular cartilage above, and the articular surfaces of the scaphoid, lunar, and cuneiform bones below. The Synovial Membrane, or capsule of this joint, is connected with the articular surfaces, and lines the ligaments which surround the joint. Practical Points.—Dislocations of the carpus : —backwards—forwards. Amputation at the wrist joint. § 6. ARTICULATIONS OF THE HAND. a. Articulations between the Carpal Bones.—The bones of the first and second row of the carpus are connected by ligaments, which resemble those of the wrist joint. 1. Anterior and Posterior Ligaments. Are attached to the three first bones of the uppermost row, and are fixed below to the four bones of the second row. They consist of bundles of fibres, which take different direc- tions. 2. Lateral Ligaments. Situated on the inner and outer side. The outer is extended between the scaphoides and trapezium; the inner, between the cuneiform and unci- form bones. 3. Articulation of the Os Pisiforme. Is by means of a separate synovial membrane; and it is further connected by short ligamentous fibres to the os unciforme. 4. Accessory Ligaments. Besides the liga- ments above described, there are various ligamentous slips, extending in different directions, both on the palmar and dorsal side, which assist in connecting these bones. The Synovial Membrane extends from the three first bone3 of the upper row to the four of the lower row, sends off processes between them, and is continued to the articulations of the metacarpal bones.