Sect, IV. 271 through the dense triangular cellular substance before de- scribed ; and then curves upwards to enter the prostate. It is to be remarked, that, during its course, but especially at the commencement, it is fixed in its position. Behind the os pubis is situated the Bladder ; its upper and rounded part, or fundus, is placed somewhat anteriorly. The lower and posterior part, or base, formed into a capacious pouch, is received into the hollow of the rectum ; the lower and anterior, which is also the most depending part of the bladder, and narrow and funnel-shaped, is called the neck, or cervix, and is connected with the prostate. The bladder is connected to the rectum, pubes, and surrounding parts by firm cellular membrane. When empty, its fundus does not rise above the level of the ossa pubis ; but when distended with urine, it rises up within the abdomen, and is in contact with the recti muscles : the pouch is larger, and more projecting towards the rectum. The Rectum is situated behind; after it has de- scended into the pelvis, it takes the curve of the sacrum, with which it is firmly connected; but for some way above the anus, its direction is nearly straight, and it is at this part usually dilated into a larger or smaller pouch. In the hollow of the rectum, between it and the bladder, are the Vesiculte Seminales ; pyriform bodies, the nar- row anterior parts of which are connected with the prostate gland, and are closely approximated to each other: but they separate as they recede upwards, so that the broad parts are at some distance from each other, and thus include between them a portion of the bladder of a triangular figure. The Vasa Deferentia pass forwards to their inner side, after descending at the back of the bladder. The Ureters are also seen descending into the pelvis, crossing behind the vesiculse, and terminating at the under and back part of the bladder, at about an inch dis- tance behind the prostate gland. Reflexion of the Periton./£um. The peri- toneum, after lining the lower part of the abdominal muscles, passes from the recti on to the fundus of the bladder; it is connected to the bladder and the recti muscles by loose cellular membrane, so that when the bladder from distension rises up in the abdomen, it carries the peritonaeum with it, and leaves the anterior and upper part of the bladder un- covered above the pubes. It is continued then over the