Sect. II. Ill ilium, across the dorsum of the bone as far as its notch, and from the dorsum of the ilium below. Insertion. By a strong short tendon into the fore and upper part of the trochanter major. Use. It abducts and rotates the thigh inwards; but if parts of the fibres act, the anterior flex the thigh on the belly, the posterior rotate it outwards. A small bursa is situated between it and the trochanter major anteriorly. cl. Ischiadic, containing three muscles, which are exposed by removing the M. glutei. 1. M. Pyriformis. Situation-. Immediately below the M. gluteus min., and seen coming out of the greater sacro ischiatic hole. Origin. Within the pelvis, by three tendinous and fleshy origins from the second, third, and fourth pieces of the sacrum. It passes out of the pelvis through the greater sacro-ischiatic foramen, and receives an addition of some fibres from the ilium. It tapers in its descent, and is sometimes divided for the passage of the sciatic nerve. Insertion. By a rounded tendon into the upper part of the cavity on the inside of the trochanter major. Use. To rotate the thigh outwards, and to flex it a little upon the belly. A bursa is situated between its tendon and the upper of the gemini muscles. 2. M. Gemini. Situation. Are two small muscles situated immediately below the pyriformis, and separated from each other by that part, of the obturator interims, which is exterior to the pelvis. Origin. The superior from the spinous process, and the inferior from the tuberosity of the ischium, and from the pos- terior sacro-sciatic ligament. Insertion. Tendinous and fleshy into the cavity on the in- side of the trochanter major, firmly adhering on each side to the tendon of the obturator interims, which cannot be seen till the dissection of this region. Use. To rotate the thigh outwards. 3. M. Quadratus Femoris. Situation. ^ Below the gemini, and named from itg figure. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy from the outside of the tuberosity of the ischium. It runs transversely outwards,