120 Sect. II. ment being continued obliquely along the under edge of the popliteus, from tbe upper and back part of the head of the fibula, and from the posterior surface and outer edge of the fibula for some way down. From these attachments it passes down before the gastrocnemius externus, in the form of a thick fleshy belly, which reaches below the fleshy part of the former muscle, and is attached to the common tendon; the exterior being covered by numerous tendinous fibres. Insertion. With the former muscle by a strong, rounded tendon, called the Tendo Achillis, into the upper and posterior part of the tuberosity of the os calcis. Use. Same as the last. A considerable bursa is placed between the tendo Achillis and the tuberosity of the os calcis. 3. M. Plantaris. Situation. Upon the gastrocnemius intemus, and covered by the outer head of the gastrocnemius externus. Origin. Fleshy from the back part of the outer condyle of the os femoris. It has a small fleshy belly, which adheres to the capsule of the joint in its descent, and soon terminates in a long, slender, thin tendon. The tendon passes down between the gastrocnemii, then runs along the inner edge of the tendo Achillis. Insertion. Into the inner and back of the tuberosity of the os calcis, but is frequently spread in the cellular mem- brane, about tbe heel. It is not unfrequently wanting. Use. To assist the gastrocnemii, and also to rotate the foot slightly inwards. c. Deep Posterior Tibial, containing four muscles. 1. M. Popliteus. Situation. At the back part of the knee joint, and covered by the gastrocnemius externus. * Origin. By a round tendon from the under and back part of tbe outer condyle of the os femoris ; it descends over the back part of the joint, forming a broad, thin, triangular, fleshy belly, which adheres to the capsule, is composed of oblique fibres, and is covered by a tendinous expansion. Insertion. Fleshy, into the upper and inner part of the posterior surface of the tibia. Use. To bend the leg upon the thigh, and when bent, to rotate it slightly inwards. Between this muscle, the outer condyle, the outer semilunar cartilage, and the capsule of the joint, is situated a bursa, which frequently communicates with the joint.