Sect. III. H7 sometimes joined with it. The duct of the parotid arises from the anterior margin of the gland; its course may be marked generally by a line drawn from the junction of the lobe of the ear with its pinna, to the base of the nose, and passing immediately below the malar eminence. It receives often a small duct from a corresponding glandular process situated above it on the masseter, the glandula accessoria of Haller. The duct continues its course in the direction just de- scribed over the anterior margin of the masseter muscle, having the middle facial nerve above it, and the transverse facial artery still higher; it descends a little, and perforates the buccinator muscle opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The parotid has a covering of a dense cellular texture. It is of a greyish colour, and of a tolerably dense and firm texture. It is made up of a number of lobes, which are easily seen, united by cellular membrane, and these lobes are again made of other smaller ones, from which the excretory duct is arising by minute radicles. a. Palpebral Region, containing the muscles of the eyelid and eyebrow. 1. M. Orbicularis Palpebrarum. Situation. Surrounds the eyelids. Origin. Fleshy from the orbitar process of the superior maxillary bone. The fibres pass downwards, then outwards, spreading over the under eyelid and upper part of the cheek; they surround the outer angle, and then run inwards over the superciliary ridge, and spread over the upper eyelid: they de- scend then to the inner angle, adhering to the internal angular process of the os frontis, and to a short round tendon, which is fixed to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and is commonly considered as the Insertion of the muscle, but seems rather to connect and support the eyelids. This tendon may be perceived under the integuments, and points out the situation of the lachrymal sac. Use. To shut the eyelids, and to press the lachrymal gland. 2. M. Corrugator Supercilii. Situation. Above the internal angular process, close to the bone, and covered by the last muscle. Origin. Fleshy from the internal angular process of the os frontis. It passes upwards and outwards, and extends as far as the middle of the superciliary ridge. , Insertion. Into the eyebrow, intermixing with the orbicu- laris palpebrarum. • N