Sect. V. 391 but in the same individual on the two sides of the body,) and of branches which in part connect these ganglia, or form junc- tions with the other nerves, and are in part distributed to the internal organs. It extends from the base of the skull, on each side of the vertebral column, through the neck, chest and abdomen, as far as the coccyx, forming, from above to below, numerous ganglia: those in the neck are few in num- ber, but in the rest of its course it generally forms one gan- glion between every two vertebrae; these are severally con- nected by one or more filaments with each other, and with all the nerves of the spinal marrow ; and the uppermost cervical ganglion is connected with most of the cerebral nerves. Last- ly, it detaches filaments to the viscera, and those which are distributed in the abdomen form connections with a nu- merous set of ganglia in this cavity which are placed about the trunks of the large vessels. The ganglia and their branches on each side of the spine will be first described, and afterwards those of the abdomen. In tracing the sympathetic nerve from above downwards from the base of the skull by the side of the vertebral column, the description will be most conveniently begun by the Cervical Ganglia. 1. Superior Cervical Ganglion. Ganglion cervicale supremum, fusiforme. Is one of the most consider- able. It is situated behind the internal carotid artery, and before the transverse processes of the second and third cervical vertebra, and the rectus capitis interims major muscle. On the inner side are situated the pneumo-gastric and lingual nerves, with which it is connected by dense cellular membrane. Its form and size are subject to consi- derable varieties ; it is most commonly of a spindle-like shape, but sometimes has different contractions ; its length is usually not more than that of the second and third vertebne, but it sometimes reaches lower, and occasionally as far as the sixth cervical vertebra, varying in breadth and thickness. Various branches pass off from its circumference ; they may be divided into superior, inferior, external and anterior. 1. Superior, generally a single branch, which takes its course through the carotid canal to join with branches of the cerebral nerves. It is situated behind the artery, and in its course divides into two branches, which continue their course through the canal, somewhat separated from each other. Whilst still within it one of the branches joins with a branch sent off from the external oculo-museular where