158 Sect. III. brain : on the contrary, Wenzel observes, that in four cases of insanity its quantity was very small. Corpora QvATmiGEMi'SA,Bigemina,natesettestes. Consist of four rounded projections, separated by a cruciform furrow. The upper and anterior, which are the larger, are called nates; the lower and posterior, testes. They arc situ- ated between the posterior extremities of the thalami, below the pineal gland, anterior to the cerebellum, and above the crura cerebri. They are internally composed of cineritious substance (rather reddish,) which is surrounded by a thin layer of medullary matter, through which the cineritious appears. The Thalami, Corpora Striata and Taeniae can now be more minutely examined. Thalami Nervorum Opticorum. Ganglia postica, corpora striata posteriora, colliculi. Are on their exterior white from the medullary structure at this part. Seen in the lateral and third ventricle, and on the exterior of the brain. They are of a rounded figure, larger behind than before; anteriorly they are lengthened, become narrower, and converge. They are placed before the corpora quadrigemina, and surround the crura cerebri. On the outer side they are united by a continuation of medullary substance with the hemispheres, and with the corpora striata. The upper surface is rounded, and seen in the lateral ventricles. The inner surface is seen in the third ventricle; on it is a medullary ridge, or line, formed by the elongation of the peduncle of the pineal gland. Below this the thalami arc flattened, greyer, and contiguous. Behind they are unconnected, but before are united by the commissura mollis; which is occasionally wanting, and sometimes double. Below, the thalami are mediately united by the floor of the third ventricle. The posterior surface is also rounded, and divided into three eminences: the posterior and largest is called tubercidum pos- terius. The other two, situated anterior to it, are distinguished by the names tuberculum externum et internum, vel corpora geniculuta externa et interna. The two inferior are connected, by medullary bands, with the corpora quadrigemina; they are externally medullary, internally of medullary and cineritious substance mixed ; interiorly they are continued into the roots of the optic nerves. The thalami interiorly having been continued around the crura, form the tractus opticus, which terminates at the union of the optic nerves. The upper and posterior surface of the thalami is covered by a thin layer of medullary substance: the inner surface is cineritious. It is internally made up of medullary and cineritious substance mixed, being composed of layers, the rays of which run from within to without, and become inter- woven with the substance of the crura cerebri. Corpora Striata. Ganglia antica. Occupy the greater part of the lateral ventricles, and under part of the anterior lobes. A consi- derable part of their upper and inner circumference is seen, forming the floor of the anterior cornu of the lateral ventricles, being broad before and narrowing hindward, and becoming arched. From the outward edge the medullary substance passes perpendicularly upwards, to form the side and upper part of the lateral ventricle.