44 Sect. I, volutions of the middle lobes of the cerebrum, and the edge bevelled off, where it joins with the parietal bone. The Pars Mamillaris, Situated at the posterior inferior part of the bone, is bounded before and above by the pars petrosa, and below by the auditory process. It forms an irregular semicircular ridge above to join with the parietal bone, and behind is deeply denticulated to join with the occipital bone. At the under part it is shaped like a nipple, and called at that part, mastoid process, processus mastoideus, upon which is a small groove for the occipital artery, and above it usually is seen the mastoid hole, foramen mastoideum ; behind the mastoid "process is a deep pit, the digastric pit, fossa digastrica, from which the M. digastricus arises ; to the inner and under part of the mastoid process is placed the styloid process, processus styliformis, from which arise three muscles and two ligaments, it is surrounded by its vaginal process or sheath, processus vaginalis, from which it may be drawn out: between the root of the styloid process and the fore part of the digastric pit is the stylo mastoid hole, foramen stylo mastoideum, the external open- ing of the canal of that name, which passes through the top of the tympanum, but cannot be seen till a section of the bone be made. On the inside of this part, the mastoid process is deeply hollowed to receive the termination of the lateral sinus: and between it and the squamous part, the sub- stance of the bone is cellular, forming the mastoid cells, cellulce mastoidece, which are not seen but by making a section of the bone. The Pars Petrosa, Situated on the inside of the bone, passing forwards, in- wards, and downwards from the junction of the squamous with the mamillary portions, is of a triangular shape with the base below. It has three angles and three faces. The superior angle has a broad shallow depression near its inner point, over which the trigeminal nerve passes ; and, extending along from thence to the upper part of the pit in the mas- toid process is a groove for the superior petrosal sinus. In the anterior inferior angle, immediately to the inside of the auditory process, is the bony part of the eustachian tube, tuba eustachiana; and above it, part of the carotid canal j the extreme inner point is rough to join with the root of the posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone. The posterior