318 Sect. V. radial and ulnar arteries, and furnish branches that accom- pany the divisions of those vessels, so that each branch of an artery is accompanied by two veins. § 2. VENA CAVA INFERIOR. The Inferior Cava furnishes the ramifications which accom- pany the distribution of the aortic system in the lower part of the trunk and lower extremities. This vein is of larger size than the superior cava; it arises from the outer and back of the right auricle, and extends from that part to the fourth or fifth lumbar vertebra. After its origin, it is directed a little outwards, and passes through the aperture in the tendon of the diaphragm ; this takes place so immediately after its ori- gin, that the pericardium is attached only to a very small portion of the vessel. Having entered the abdomen, it con- tinues its course, forming a slight bend to the right, deep- seated in the depression and sometimes in a complete canal, at the posterior edge of the liver. Below the liver, it descends upon the right crus of the diaphragm on the right side of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, and on the right of the aorta : at the fourth or fifth lumbar vertebra it terminates, by dividing into the two common iliac veins. The inferior cava some- times divides into two branches, which again unite; the ad- ditional vessel however varying in size and length. The branches which the inferior cava gives off during its course are:—the Diaphragmatic, Hepatic, Renal, Capsular, Spermatic, and Lumbar.—These accompany the arteries of the same name, and are distributed like them. The Left Renal Vein, however, is longer than the right, and com- monly passes before the aorta to its destination. The left lumbar veins also, which pass behind the aorta, arc longer than the right. The left spermatic vein comes off from the left renal vein. Hepatic Veins. Usually consist of two or three large, and numerous small veins; the former coming off from the cava opposite to the convex surface of the liver, so soon as that vein has entered the abdomen, and the latter behind the liver. They pass into and ramify within the substance of the liver. Middle Sacral Vein. Comes off from the extremity of the inferior cava, and