104 Sect. II is extended between the sharp ridges of these bones. It is broadest in the middle, and is composed of fibres, which run obliquely downwards and inwards. At different parts there are openings for the passage of vessels; the most remarkable of which are above and below. 4. Sacciform Capsule. Ligamentum sacci- forme, membrana capsularis sacciformis. The under ex- tremity of the ulna is attached to the radius by a synovial capsule, which surrounds the articular surfaces of both bones, and is strengthened on the exterior by ligamentous fibres. ยง 5. OF THE WRIST-JOINT, OR ARTICULATION OF THE BONES OF THE FORE ARM WITH THOSE OF THE CARPUS. The bones which are here articulated with each other, are the radius and ulna, with the three first bones of the upper row of the carpus, viz. the scaphoid, lunar, and cuneiform. They are connected by means of four ligaments ; but the extremity of the ulna does not form a part of the joint, owing to the in- tervention of an interarticular cartilage. The parts of this joint, being surrounded only by tendons, are superficial, and admit, therefore, readily of examination : the parts which are the most prominent, are the styloid processes of the radius and ulna. 1 & 2. Anterior and Posterior Ligaments. Lig anient a cubit o-carpalia, palmare et dorsale. Are formed of strong fasciculi of oblique and perpendicular fibres. They are attached above to the margin of the articular surface of the radius, styloid process of the ulna, and interarticular car- tilage, and are fixed below to the three first bones of the carpus. 3. Cubito Carpal, or Inner Lateral Liga- ment. Ligamentum cubitale. Is attached above to the styloid process of the ulna, is connected with the posterior ligament, and is fixed below to the posterior surface of the cuneiform, and to the pisiform bones. 4. Radio Carpal, or Outer Lateral Ligament. Ligamentum radiate. Is attached above to the styloid pro- cess of the radius, and below to the scaphoid bone. The Interarticular Cartilage. Is placed between the extremity of the ulna and the cuneiform bone. It is firmly connected with the cartilage covering the end of