354 Sect. V. the course of the occipital artery, pass through the small glands behind the ear, and unite with the superficial absorbents of the neck. (3. Superficial Absorbents of the Face. Are more numerous than the above; accompany the blood-vessels. Some pass through the glands on the buccinator muscle, but the greater number through the glands at the under edge of the lower jaw, and the glands at the upper part of the neck. And, at this part, the superficial absorbents of the cranium and face join with the deep vessels of the head, and are con- tinued by three or four trunks, which accompany the internal and external jugular veins. 2. Deep-seated of the Head, a. Deep-seated of the Cranium.—They have only been found on the membranes of the brain, but have never been traced into its substance. Their trunks pass out of the cranium with the blood-vessels, and unite with the superficial absorbent vessels of the head and neck. 13. Deep-seated of the Face. Arise from the muscles and cavities of the nose and mouth. Their trunks accompany the blood-vessels, and enter the upper cervical glands. All the trunks of the superficial and deep-seated absorbents of the head and neck pass through the cervical glands, freely communicate with each other, and with absorbents from the chest and upper extremity. They unite to form one or more trunks, which terminate in the upper part of the thoracic duct, at the angle formed by the internal jugular and subclavian veins, or in one of these veins. § 3. ABSORBENT GLANDS AND VESSELS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 1. Glands of the Upper Extremity.—There are sel- dom any found below the elbow-joint. a. Glands at the Elbow. There are com- monly two or three small glands anteriorly, near the inner condyle. Between the condyle and the cavity of the axilla five or six glands are commonly found on the inner and fore part of the upper arm, in the course of the humeral artery. (3. Axillary Glands. The number and size of these are much more considerable than the above-mentioned, being sometimes as many as twelve in number. They sur- round the trunks of the blood-vessels, and are situated prin-