Sect. IV. 283 apices : it has hence been compared to an hour-glass. It is flattened before and behind, but more so anteriorly. Its ana- tomical division has been already explained. The size of the uterus varies. In those who have borne children it is larger than in the virgin state. Internally, it has a cavity which re- sembles in figure the general form of the uterus, consisting of two parts, one large and triangular, belonging to the body, the other smaller and conical, belonging to the neck. The cavity is small in proportion to the organ, and its sides nearly touch. The under part of the cervix projects into the vagina, forming a rounded smooth eminence, surrounded by a circu- lar depression about it where the vagina terminates, and is attached to the cervix. This projection is more or less con- siderable, and varies in form. It has an oval opening called the os uteri, or os tine®. The projecting part of the cervix is smooth on its external surface, placed obliquely in a di- rection towards the back part of the vagina, and surrounded with mucous follicles, which in the impregnated uterus become very large. The uterus is covered externally by the peritonaeum. It is principally composed of a compact cellular and fleshy sub- stance, plentifully supplied with blood-vessels. The appear- ance of muscular fibres is most distinct in the gravid uterus, especially about the orifices of the fallopian tubes. At that part an arrangement of concentric fibres is apparent, which has been called the Musculus orbicularis Ruyschii. It is re- markably vascular. The arteries, which are situated under the peritonseal coat, have an extremely tortuous course, and • are derived from three sources, viz. part of the spermatic ar- tery, the uterine artery, and part of the vaginal. The veins, which are situated within the substance of the uterus, have been called the uterine sinuses. The uterus is lined by a fine smooth and vascular mem- brane of the mucous kind, naturally of a whitish colour, which has a porous appearance, more striking when seen through a lens. The cavity of the cervix has two small longitudinal lines projecting into it, one in the anterior, the other in the pos- terior part; on each side of which arc numerous rugae run- ning in a transverse direction. Between the rugae are small follicles of the mucous kind. Fallopian Tuiies. Uterine Tubes. Are two canals about four or five inches in length which are attached by one extremity to the corners of the uterus, and terminat- ing in it, each by a small opening which scarcely admits the