156 Sect. III. Monroianum, they form communications between the third and lateral ventricles. The Fornix is now to be divided transversely, and the divided portions reflected; it will then be seen composed of four pillars, crura fornicis, two anterior and two posterior. The two anterior pillars diverge from the body of the fornix, pass downwards, immediately behind the anterior commissure, and disappear on the inner sides of the front of the thalami, through which they pass to the eminentiae mamillares at the base of the brain; this course, however, cannot be seen till a much later period of the dissection. The two posterior pillars diverge much more than the anterior*, and just before the spot at which they first separate, the under part of the fornix is marked by a number of strias, and is called lyra or psdlterium. The pillars then pass down into the descending cornua of the lateral ventricles along the inner edges of the hippocampi majores, forming the taeniae hippocampi. Below the lyra the posterior crura of the fornix not being connected, a space is left through which the pia mater enters into the ventricle forming the Velum Interpositum, which passes forwards, connecting the plexus choroides of each side, and covering the thalami, forms the roof of the third ventricle : to see which the velum must be turned back, but not cut off; and the thalami slightly separated. The Third Ventricle, Processus fissurce mediancc perpendicularis, will then be seen situated between the thalami nervorum opticorum. It is a fissure only, but of considerable extent from before tp behind. It is of irregular figure, but deeper before than behind. At its fore part are seen the anterior pillars of the fornix, with the anterior commissure before them \ and behind, the posterior com- missure; in the middle, and a line’s breadth below the upper and inner edges of the thalami, is the soft commissure, which is shown by separating the thalami. The passage between the anterior and soft commissures is called foramen commune anterius, and that between the soft and posterior commissures, the foramen communeposterius. Tear through the soft commissure, and look into the bottom of the ven- tricle, anteriorly see the passage called iter ad infundibulum; and posteriorly an opening which is the entrance of a pas- sage called the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, from its forming a communication with the ventricle of the cerebellum. The floor of the third ventricle is formed by the cineritious substance anterior to the crura cerebri, by the eminentim mamillares, and by the infundibulum, into which it is continued. Its anterior surface is formed by