202 Sect. III. artery before its division, and the under part of the arch of the aorta. The heart is of a conical figure, but flattened on one side, ■where it rests upon the diaphragm, and fixed only at its base, where it is connected by the great vessels. It is divided into base, body, and apex, with an anterior and posterior surface, and a right and left margin. The right margin is thin, and is therefore sometimes called the acute, and is generally fat. The left margin is thick and rounded, and is called sometimes the obtuse. The base is placed posteriorly and superiorly towards the vertebral column, from which it is separated by the contents of the posterior mediastinum; and to this part the great vessels are connected. The apex is placed anteriorly, inferiorly, and to the left: it corresponds to a slight depres- sion in the lung, and to the space between the fifth and sixth ribs, where its pulsation may be felt during the dilatation of the auricles : it is surrounded generally by fat, and is some- times divided. The heart is double, or formed of two sides, each of which is divided into two cavities, one of these is distinguished by the name of auricle, the other by that of ventricle; so that there are four cavities ; viz. two auricles and two ventricles. The sides have been named right and left, but improperly, as that called right is rather the anterior, and the left rather the posterior. The heart is the organ for the reception and propulsion of the blood. The auricles are the reservoirs, and are therefore connected with large veins supplying them. The ventricles are the propelling powers, and are therefore connected with the arteries. It is supplied with valves, which prevent the reflux of the blood. Right Auricle. Forms a part of the base of the heart. Its figure is irregular ; it is broad posteriorly, and to the right; it is narrow anteriorly, and to the left side, where it terminates in- a projecting process called the appendix. In order to demonstrate the internal structure of the auri- cle, it is to be opened by cutting between the junction of the two venae cavae to the septum between the auricle and ven- tricle, and from this another incision is to be extended up- wards and to the left, to open the appendix. The parts then seen are : behind, and at the upper part, the opening of the vena cava superior, directed obliquely downwards and for- wards, formed by a rounded and projecting edge of muscular fibres: this opening has the same direction as that which forms the communication between the auricle and ventricle. At the