34 Sect. I. for the middle cuneiform, and the anterior for the second tnetatarsal; and a large one on the outside for the cuboid bone. • Connection. The three cuneiform bones form a cup, into which is received the rounded articular surface of the navicular bone ; before, they join with the three larger meta- tarsal bones, and in consequence of the shortness of the middle cuneiform bone a kind of mortise is formed by the inner and outer, in which the second metatarsal bone is re- ceived like a tenon ;• the middle cuneiform bone articulates on the inside with the inner, and on the outside with the outer cuneiform bones ; and the outer cuneiform joins by its outer surface with the cuboid bone. - The muscles attached to these bones are five; viz. to the inner, M. tibialis anticus & peroneus longus ; to the outer, M. flexor brevis & adductor poll. ped.; and to all three bones, M. tibialis posticus. . - CUBOID BONE. Os Cuboides. Situation. On the outer part of the foot, immediately before the os calcis. Description. Of an irregular cuboidal form, its outer edge being the shortest; it has three articular surfaces, the largest of which is behind and concave for the os calcis, the anterior slightly concave and divided by a middle perpendicular ridge into two for the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones, and the smallest on the inside divided by a ridge into two unequal portions, of which the smaller and posterior is for the outer and under edge of the navicular, and the larger anterior for- the outer side of the outer cuneiform bone : above, the bone is convex, and below it has a deep groove through which the tendon of the M. peroneus longus plays; the ridge which bounds this behind terminates externally in a protuberance, the posterior part of which marks its junction with the os calcis. Connection. With the fore part of the os calcis behind, with the two small metatarsal bones before, and on the inside behind with the navicular, and before with the outer cunei- form bones. The muscles attached to this bone are two; viz. on its under surface, M. flexor brevis minimi digiti & adductor poll, pedis. The METATARSAL BONES. Metatarsus. Situation. Between the tarsus and toes. Description. The metatarsus consists of five bones, of which the jirst, or that of the great toe, is the shortest and