364 Sect. V. And The Sympathetic, forming one pair, and completing the number of forty-three pairs of original nerves. ยง 1. CEREBRAL NERVES. For the origin of these nerves, see the description of the Brain, p. 162. I. Olfactory. JV. olfactorius, par primum. It passes for- wards, and a little inwards, from the under and back part of the anterior lobes of the cerebrum, in a fossa upon their un- der surface, to the crybriform plate of the ethmoid bone ; and gradually enlarging, here forms an oval bulb. From the un- der surface of the bulb numerous filaments arise, which pass through the perforations of the crybriform plate: these fila- ments divide into two sets, one passing on to the septum, the other upon the ossa turbinata; and being continued between the membrane and bone, are distributed to the membrane of the nose. II. Optic. JV. opticus, par secundum. Is the largest of the cerebral nerves. It passes down from the back part of the thalamus, and is continued forwards and inwards over the un- dersurface of the crus cerebri, with which it is connected. It is at first flattened, but becomes in its course gradually rounded; and upon the under surface of the floor of the third ventricle, joins v/ith the opposite nerve. With respect to the mode of this junction, see p. 163. It then separates from the other optic nerve, and takes its course forward and outward; passes through the foramen opticum, and after penetrating the scle- rotic and choroid coats of the eye, spreads out to form the Retina. III. Common Oculo-muscular. JV. oculo-muscularis communis, motor oculi, par tertium. It comes off from the under surface of the cerebrum, on the inside of the crus ce- rebri, where adjacent to the edge of the pons Varolii. It passes forward and outward, perforates the dura mater at the side of the posterior clinoid process, takes its course along the upper part of the cavernous sinus, enters the orbit through the lacerated foramen of the orbit, and immediately divides into branches. 1. Branch to the levator oculi, which detaches a twig or two to the levator palp chive superioris. 2. Branch to the adductor oculi. 3. Branch to the depressor oculi.