Sect. IV. 249 They are sometimes placed in one or two rows, and in other instances are disposed without regularity; but generally are attached to the projecting parts of the intestines. The large intestines are composed of the same coats as the small intes- tines. The peritoneal covering is, for the most part, not so complete as that of the small. The muscular coat is thicker and stronger, and is composed of longitudinal and circular fibres. The circular have the same disposition as in the small intestines. But the longitudinal differ in length and disposi- tion ; they are collected together in three different bands, intermixed with tendinous fibres, commonly called bands of the colon. These bands, two of which are anterior, and one posterior, begin at the vermiform process of the ccecum, are continued the whole length of the colon, and are lost upon the rectum. They are shorter than the intestines, and there- fore the colon and ccecum seem to be contracted, so as to give externally the appearance of eminences, and internally that of cells, sacculi. The villous appearance of the internal membrane is much less distinct. The mucous glands are more numerous than in the small intestines. Ccecum. The peritonaeal covering is seldom com- plete at the part where the intestine is connected with the psoas and iliacus. To the right and posteriorly we find the appendix vermiformis. It is about the size of a large quill, and generally from two to three inches in length ; is smooth externally, and enveloped in a proper covering of peritonaeum. Its parietes are the same as those of the intestines, its cavity therefore inconsiderable. It terminates in a blind extremity. Its muscular coat is chiefly composed of longitudinal fibres, and its mucous membrane is continued from the ccecum. Valve of the Ilium (valve of the colon; ilio- ccecal, ilio-colic valve, &c.) At the place where the ilium terminates in the coecum and colon, there is a valve, to pre- vent the passage of the food from the large to the small in- testines. If observed in a recent intestine, it appears like a rounded projection into the cavity of the large intestine ; with a fissure in its middle, forming two lips, which are united at the extremities, are continued by folds on each side, and are insensibly lost on the sides of the intestine. If the coecum be removed from the body, with the termination of the ilium and the beginning of the colon, and these inflated and dried, and if then an opening be made opposite to the termination of the ilium, it will be found formed of two semilunar flaps, which adhere by their convex edge to the termination of the ilium and to the parietes of the coecum and colon, whilst their con-