160 Sect. 111. Crura Cerebri. Are situated immediately before the pons Varolii. Are two bodies, externally medullary, of a rounded figure, diverging and enlarging as they extend forwards: below they are separated by a fossa of some depth and breadth : this fossa forms the floor of the Aquceductus Stjlvii. Its under surface is cineritious and perforated by numerous vessels, and hence called Pons Tarini, or substantia perforata. The crura are co- vered anteriorly by the junction of the optic nerves, posteriorly by the pons Varolii. The crura are composed externally of a layer of medullary matter, under which is a layer of dark substance, called the locus niger. Eminenti/e Mamillares (medullares, candicantes, albicantes.) Are two small rounded conoid bodies, situated close together between the crura. They are externally medullary, and internally cineritious. They form the extremities of the anterior pillars of the fornix. Infundibulum and Pituitary Gland. The infundibulum is, as the name expresses, a narrow funnel-shaped body, which extends from before the eminentiae mamillares downwards and forwards, and terminates in the glandula pituitaria: so called, but the glandular nature of which is at least problematical. This is placed in the sella tursica, and covered by the dura mater, through an opening in which the infundibulum become^ connected with it. The infundibulum is somewhat narrowed in the middle, and is composed of cineritious substance. It is not always distinctly hol- low ; but air may be blown from the pituitary gland into the third ventricle, but not always in the contrary direction. The pituitary gland is an oval, having its long axis from side to side; it consists of an anterior and poste- rior lobe. It is firm in texture. In this gland likewise a gritty matter is sometimes found. Anteriorly to the infundibulum and pituitary gland are the optic nerves, the roots of which extend over the crura and bottom of the third ventricle, from which they receive filaments, and become united at this part. The rest of the under surface does not present any remarkable appear- ance. The surface of the lobes have the same structure externally as that of the cerebrum in general. Next examine the CEREBELLUM. It is less than one third of the volume of the Cerebrum. It is situated in the lower cavities of the occipital hone, under the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, from which it is separated by the tentorium. It is divided into body and crura, the for- mer of which forms the upper and back part, and sends out the crura in front. The Body, corpuscerebelli, is of a rounded figure, having its greatest breadth from side to side: its depth is greatest in the middle, and decreases towards the edges. In the middle of the upper surface of the body is seen the Superior Vermi- form process, processus vermiformis superior, connecting the Lobes, lobuli, which are placed on each side of it; posteriorly the lobes are deeply separated by the falx minor, and through the fissure thus formed, the vermiform process is con- tinued to the under surface of the cerebellum, where it is