Sect. I. 33 NAVICULAR BONE. Os Naviculare. Situation. On the inner and upper part of the foot before the astragalus. Description. In shape resembles a boat, broad laterally, narrow from before to behind ; it has three articular surfaces, one behind deep concave for the astragalus ; another before convex, divided by two ridges for the three ossa cuneiformia; and on the outer edge of the articular surface for the outer cuneiform bone, a small articular surface for the os cu- boides; on the inner side of the bone is a strong projecting rounded process. Connection. Behind with the astragalus, before with the ossa cuneiformia, and on the outer edge with the os cuboides. The muscle attached to this bone is, to its under part, M. tibialis posticus. The other four bones are placed in a row and join the tar- sus with the metatarsus. CUNEIFORM BONES. Ossa Cuneiformia. Situation. On the inner and upper part of the foot; they are three in number, and are called from their position, inner, middle, and outer cuneiform bones. Description. The inner cuneiform bone is the largest of the three, it is of an irregular prismatic shape, its base placed below and the apex above ; it has four articular surfaces, one behind concave to form part of the articulation for the navi* cular bone; it has a plain'articular surface before for the metatarsal bone of the great toe ; its inner surface is slightly convex, and has a smooth surface on its under and fore part, ^o which the M. tibialis anticus and peroneus longus are inserted; its outer surface is irregularly concave, and has on its upper edge an irregular flat articular surface for the middle cunei- form bone, and a smaller surface before it-, for the inside of the metatarsal bone of the second toe : its under surface and the other parts not smooth for articulation, are strongly marked by ligament. The middle cuneiform bone, which is of a prismatic shape and the smallest of the three, has its base above slightly convex laterally; it has four articular surfaces, one behind concave for the navicular, one before flat for the base of the second metatarsal bone, one on the inside nearly flat for the inner cuneiform, and one on the outer and posterior part slightly concave for the outer cuneiform bone. The outer cuneiform bone, in shape resembling the' pre- ceding and having its base upwards, has live articular sur- faces, one concave behind for the navicular; one before for the third metatarsal; two on the inside, the posterior of which is D