Sect. V. 301 to the trachelo-mastoideus, transversalis colli, and to the recti and obliqui capitis. After entering the cranium it gives off ft. Posterior artery of the spinal marrow, a branch of small size, which passes to the posterior surface of the spinal marrow, and descends on each side along the groove of the medulla to its inferior extremity. It is ex- tremely tortuous in its course, and during the whole of its descent is joined and augmented by branches of the vertebral, cervical, and intercostal arteries, which pass through the vertebral foramina. 7. Inferior of the cerebellum. (A. cerebelli in- ferior.) Arises from the outer side of the vertebral, and is frequently double (on one or both sides.) Sometimes one or both arise from the basilary. It passes backwards and out- wards between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata, dis- tributes branches to the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle, ascends between the lobes of the cerebellum, and furnishes branches which ramify on-its pia-matral covering.. <5. Anterior of the spinal marrow. Comes off near the junction of the vertebral arteries, descends and unites with its fellow, forming a branch which takes its course along the anterior groove of the spinal marrow. It divides, subdivides, and anastomoses frequently during its course, forming communications with branches of the vertebral and other arteries. Branches of the Basilary Artery. a. Branches from both sides, varying in size and number to the pons Varolii, and adjacent parts. ft. Internal auditory, (A. auditiva interna,) to the internal organ of hearing, after passing through the meatus auditorius internus. 7. Superior of the cerebellum, (A. cerebelli supe- rior,) is sometimes double on one side. It passes outwards near the anterior edge of the pons Varolii, and then over the pons backwards to the cerebellum, dividing into branches which spread on its upper surface, are continued to its poste- rior edge, and anastomose with the inferior branches. 0. Posterior of the cerebrum, (A. cerebri poste- rior,) is much larger than the former. It passes outwards, and after sending branches to the crus cerebri, thalamus nervi optici, and corpora quadrigemina, it is joined by the communicating branch of the internal carotid. It then con- tinues its course upwards and outwards round the crus cere- bri, furnishing branches to the choroid plexus of thg third