420 Sect. VI. form plate of the ethmoid bone in the middle, by the bones of the nose anteriorly, by the sphenoid bone behind; and below, by the horizontal portions of the maxillary and palatine bones. To the outer side they present an irregular surface, formed by the ethmoid and inferior turbinated bones, which make two projections, and divide the external part into three mea- tus, or passages :—1. Meatus narium superior, which is the smallest, is placed at the upper, inner, and back part of the turbinated plate of the ethmoid bone :—2. Medius, between the turbinated plate of the ethmoid and the turbinated bone:— 3. Inferior, between the turbinated bone and the floor of the nose. Mucous Membrane of the Nose. The inside of the nose is lined with a thick, soft, and spongy membrane, the membrana mucosa, (pituitaria, Schneideriana.) This not only covers the internal parietes of the nose, but is continued into the different cavities connected with the nose. It is red- der than the other mucous membranes. It is thin where lining the external nose, it is thicker in the nasal cavities, and diminishes again in the sinuses. The spongy texture is most remarkable on the turbinated bones. On its surface are ob- served numerous minute orifices, as if from the prick of a pin, which are the openings of the mucous follicles. No glands can be observed in the membrane, nor distinct villi. § 2. OF THE CAVITIES CONNECTED WITH THE NOSE. There are several cavities or sinuses situated in the bones connected with the nose, and opening into its cavity. The ethmoid bone, it will be recollected, is formed in a great measure of thin plates of bone, so disposed as to form small canals or cells, called the Ethmoidal Cells or Sinuses. There are two sets of these distinct from each other. The posterior, opening into the superior chamber of the nose ; the anterior, having a common canal of communication with the frontal sinuses terminate in the anterior part of the arose in the middle meatus. The Frontal Sinuses are cavities in the frontal bone, in its thickest part; they are large below, but become smaller as they ascend ; but vary in size, frequently reaching to the orbitar process, and are separated by a mid- dle partition, which is sometimes perforated. The Sphenoidal Sinuses are cavities found within the body of the sphenoid bone. Sometimes there is one only. They open behind the posterior ethmoidal cells, into the upper and back part of the nose. The Maxillary Sinus, antrum Highmorianum,is situated