Sect. V. 313 § 3. BRANCHES FROM THE THORACIC PORTION OF THE DESCENDING AORTA. Numerous branches are given off from the aorta in its pas- sage through the chest, but they are so inconsiderable that the aorta is not sensibly diminished in size. These vessels are subject to frequent varieties. They are :— 1. Bronchial. A. bronchioles. These vary con- siderably in number and size. The right upper is commonly a branch of the uppermost aortic intercostal; but sometimes arises immediately from the aorta. The left arises about an inch below the arch of the aorta ; it is the larger of the two, and usually sends a branch to the right bronchus. There are sometimes one or two inferior. Occasionally there is only one bronchial artery. The bronchial arteries give off branches to the oesophagus, the mediastinum and the pericardium, and accompany the bronchia into the lungs. 2. GEsophageal. A. ccsophagece. Are small branches variable in size and number distributed to the oesophagus and adjacent parts. 3. Mediastinal. A. mediastinales. Are small branches distributed to the oesophagus, to the mediastinum, and to the aorta itself. 4. Intercostal. A. intercostales. They supply chiefly the intercostal spaces, but do not correspond to these in number in consequence of the uppermost space or spaces being supplied by the intercostal branch of the subclavian artery; and in consequence of /two sometimes, especially the uppermost, arising by a common trunk : they commonly con- sist of eight pairs. They arise from the back part of the aorta at a more or less acute angle, the angle becoming more obtuse interiorly. They pass upwards round the bodies of the ver- tebne to the corresponding intercostal spaces; the right ar- teries from the position of the aorta having the longer course. Near the head of each rib they send a branch backwards, which divides into branches to the muscles lying near the spine, to the spinal marrow, which pass through the vertebral foramina, and to the muscles on the exterior of the chest. They are then continued forwards in the grooves at the under edges of the ribs between the two layers of intercostal mus- cles, and furnish branches to the intercostal muscles, to the