238 Sect. IV. the line between the anterior and superior spinous processes °f ilia; and below by the pubes and groins. Its sub- division is supposed by a line on each side drawn perpendicu- larly upwards from the spinous processes of the ossa pubis to the upper boundary : the middle space is called the -pubes, or pubic region; the lateral regions are called the inguinal. 4. The Lumbar : the posterior part of the abdomen between the. ribs and ilia is divided into the right and left lumbar regions. Peritonaeum. The abdominal muscles may next be carefully dissected off, to the extent of a few inches about the umbilicus; and this will enable us to display as far as is necessary the thin membrane, called the peritonaeum, which lines the parietes of the abdomen, and gives a covering to its contents. Interposed between the muscles and the perito- naeum, we shall find the remains of the umbilical vessels which convey the blood to and from the foetus in utero, and are called the ligaments of the peritonceum. They consist of the remains of the umbilical vein which passes upwards from the umbilicus, and may be traced to the liver; the remains of the two umbilical arteries which pass downwards from the umbilicus, and terminate at the internal iliac arteries; to which add the urachus, which in the human subject is no- thing more than a cord (in some instances an imperfect canal) passing downwards towards the bladder. The cavity of the abdomen is next to be laid open by one incision, which is to be carried from below the cartilago en- siformis to the pubes, and by a lateral incision extended from the umbilicus to the crista of the ilium on each side. The peritonceum, like the pleura and pericardium, (see p. 195,) is a mem- brane of the reflected kind. After lining the parietes it is reflected from them, covering the different viscera and their vessels contained within the abdomen, and assists in retaining them in their situation. It is. without any opening, so that if it could be raised from the viscera which it envelopes, and from all the parts to which it is attached, it would form a large bag, and it would be seen that the viscera are, in appearance only, contained within it. The external surface, by means of which it is attached to the parts it covers, is of a loose cellular texture. * Its internal surface is smooth, and without any attachmentand allows therefore of motion between the viscera and itself. It is moistened by a secretion from its internal surface, which in the dead subject is condensed into a clear serous fluid. The peritonaeum is semi-transparent and thin, but of considerable firmness. Its structure, which may be demonstrated by maceration, consists of pale, delicate membranous filaments matted to- gether, resembling the structure of the other serous membranes.