188 Sect. III. Origin. Fleshy from the uppermost bone of the sternum, and from the adjacent part of the cartilage of the first rib. Insertion. Into the rough oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage externally. Use. To pull down the thyroid cartilage. 4. M. Thyreo-hyoideus. Situation. On the side of the thyroid cartilage, and covered by the sterno-hyoideus. Origin. From the rough line opposite to the former. Insertion. Into part of the base, and almost all the cornu of the os hyoides. Use. To pull down the os hyoides, or elevate the thyroid cartilage, according as one or other of those parts is fixed. 5. M. Crico-thyroideus. Situation. Immediately below the last muscle. Origin. From the side and fore part of the cricoid car- tilage, and runs obliquely upwards and backwards. Insertion. Into the under part, and into the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. Use. To pull forward the thyroid or elevate the cricoid cartilage. The next muscles which are to be dissected, are those of the lingual region, or those which are concerned in the mo- tions of the tongue. Previously to examining them it will be advisable to saw through the lower jaw, between the incisor and cuspidatus teeth, and to turn the detached portion of the lower jaw outwards. By those means a clearer view is gained of the muscles by the side of the tongue ; and the pterygoidei muscles will be more completely displayed. It will be proper likewise to have a general knowledge of the anatomical divi- sion of the tongue before prosecuting the dissection. Tongue. This is situated between the branches of the lower jaw. Its upper surface is unconnected, while the lower part, except anteriorly, is attached, by means of mem- brane and muscles, to the lower jaw and os hyoides. It is divided into base, body, and apex. The base is the part attached to the os hyoides. The apex is the movable and unconnected point, which is protruded between the teeth. The body is the middle portion, the upper surface of which is called the dorsum, and is seen when the mouth is opened, and of which the lateral parts are called the sides. d. Lingual Region, containing four muscles belonging to the tongue.