Sect. V. 321 respect to its origin ; most commonly it arises directly from the trunk of the internal iliac, or in common with the ilio- lumbar ; but frequently from the external iliac by a trunk of variable length, in common with the epigastric branch of the external iliac; occasionally from the external iliac itself; and still more rarely from the femoral. When it arises from the epigastric, it passes downwards over the body of the os pubis. If it be a branch of the internal iliac, it takes its course for- wards, immediately under the brim of the pelvis to the ob- turator foramen. It is continued through the upper part of the ligamentous expansion which fills up that opening to the upper and inner part of the thigh. In its passage through the pelvis it furnishes branches to the levator ani, and obtu- rator interims muscle, and to the pelvic glands. It divides near the obturator foramen, usually into two branches, one of which distributes twigs to the hip-joint and adjacent muscles, and the other furnishes branches to the obturator externus, and muscles at the inner and upper part of the thigh, and anastomoses with the internal circumflex artery. 4. gluteal. A gliiteci, ilicica posterior. Sometimes arises by a trunk in common with the ischiatic. It sends off in some instances the lateral sacral, the obturator and other branches usually given off from the internal iliac. It passes downwards and outwards through the upper part of the notch of the ilium, furnishing branches to the iliacus and pyriformis muscles, then bends round the edge of the bone, is directed upwards, and divides into two principal branches, the super- ficial and the deep. The superficial passes forwards, between the gluteus maximus and medius, furnishing branches to both, to the pyriformis and to the back part of the sacrum, which anastomose with branches of the lateral sacral. The deep passes under the gluteus medius, is distributed to the two lesser glutei, to the part's about the hip-joint, and commu- nicates with branches of the ischiatic and sacral arteries. Some extend as far as the fore part of the thigh, and anasto- mose with branches of the femoral. 5. ischiatic. A. ischiaticci. Frequently arises by a trunk, in common with the internal pudic artery, or with the gluteal. It descends inclined forwards from the gluteal artery, passes out of the pelvis below the pyriformis muscle, and is con- tinued in the hollow between the tuberosity of the ischium and trochanter major. Whilst within the pelvis, it detaches branches to the pyriformis, obturator interims, and levator ani muscle. Exterior to the pelvis it sends numerous branches to the gluteus maximus, to parts about the os coccygis, to parts 'Y