8set. II. 80 1. M. Palmaris Longus. Situation. Most superficial, and immediately under the fascia, towards the inside of the fore arm ; is very small and often wanting. Origin. Tendinous from the inner condyle of the os humeri. It soon becomes fleshy, and about the middle of the fore arm sends off a slender flat tendon, which runs very superficially. Insertion. Into the ligamentum carpi annulare, and apo- neurosis palmaris. Use. To render the aponeurosis palmaris tense. This aponeurosis palmaris should now be displayed; but first must be dissected ; the M. Palmaris Brevis. Situation. On the inside of the hand, amongst the fat, in the inner palmar region (see page 87); it is small and very easily cut away. Origin. From the ligamentum carpi annulare and apo- neurosis palmaris, by small transverse fibres. Insertion. Into the os pisiforme, and in the •skin and cellular membrane which cover the abductor minimi digiti. Use. To contract the skin on the inside of the hand. The palmar fascia, aponeurosis palmaris, covers the palm of the hand ; it is of a triangular figure, and spreads from the annular ligament to the fingers, but becomes gradually thinner before and at the sides. It seems to be formed in most in- stances by the spreading out of the fibres of the tendon of the palmaris longus, with the addition of some transverse fibres ; but this is not always the case ; for although the palmaris longus is not unfrequently wanting, the aponeurosis is always found. The other muscles in the anterior superficial region of the fore arm, the dissection of which is now to be prosecuted, are 0 2. M. Pronator Teres. Situation. The most exterior and superior of the muscles arising from the inner condyle j it passes across to the out- side of the fore arm. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy, from the inner condyle of the os humeri, and tendinous from the coronoid process of the ulna, passes obliquely downward and outward. Insertion. Tendinous and fleshy into the outer and back part of the radius near its middle. Use. To render the hand prone. 3. M. Flexor Carpi Radialis (radialis interims.)