Sect. V. 384 ยง 5. LUMBAR AND SACRAL NERVES. There are five pairs of lumbar, and five pairs of sacral nerves. The lumbar pass through the foramina formed by the lumbar vertebrae, and the last nerve through the foramen, formed by the last vertebra and the sacrum. The sacral take their course through the anterior sacral foramina, and the last between the sacrum and the os coccygis.' The anterior branches of these nerves, ten in number on each side, form by their connections a kind of plexus, some- times described as the lumbar and sacral plexus, which may be termed the Crural Plexus : from this plexus the nerves are derived, supplying the whole of the lower extremity, the roots of the nerves being here variously intermingled and connected. The anterior branches of the lumbar nerves passing behind the psoas, are connected with each other; in addition, the first being joined to the last dorsal, and the last to the first sacral nerve : the anterior branches of the sacral, especially the three uppermost, contribute in the same way by their junction to the formation of this plexus. Of the nerves which form this plexus, those which are situated in the middle are the most considerable, that is to say, the fifth lumbar and the first sacral; they then diminish in size upward and downward, but not with exactness, the first lumbar and the third sacral being nearly of the same size, and the two last sacral the least, especially the fifth, which is generally the smallest of all the spinal nerves. The fourth and fifth sacral nerves are connected with the crural plexus, but do not contribute to form the principal nerves arising from it. Small posterior or dorsal branches arise from all the nerves which enter into the composition of the crural plexus, which take their course backward; those from the lumbar passing between the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae and of the sacrum ; those from the sacral passing through the posterior sacral foramina: they are distributed to the under part of the muscles of the back, to the gluteus maximus and the adjacent skin. .Branches from the Lumbar and Sacral Nerves, forming the Crural Plexus. Some of them are of small size, derived only from one or two of the nerves, viz, the external spermatic nerves, the