Sect. V. 367 rior maxilla, and divides into branches distributed to the cheek and buccinator muscle, and other branches which pass through small canals in the bone to the membrane lining the antrum, and to the molar teeth of the upper jaw. 3. Spheno-palatine. (N. spheno-palatini, nasales laterales.) They sometimes come off immediately from the trunk: but sometimes the trunk first divides into two or three branches which are then again united by a gangli- form enlargement called the spheno-palatine ganglion. G. Meckelii, from which these branches together with the pala- tine and pterygoid branches are given off. The spheno-palatine nerve soon divides into three or four considerable branches, which pass inwards through the spheno-palatipe foramen, into the nose, and are distributed to the membrane of the pos- terior ethmoidal cells, sphenoidal sinus, Eustachian tube, outer and back part of the side of the nose, and of the back part of the septum. One branch after passing over the septum is continued through the foramen incisivum to the roof of the mouth; and sometimes forms a ganglion, G. naso-pala- tinurn, described by Cloquet. 4. Pterygoid. (N. pterygoideus, vidianus, anasto- moticus.) Comes off from the spheno-palatine ganglion, or by a trunk in common with the spheno-palatine nerve. It di- rects its course backward through the pterygoid canal or fora- men, and in it divides into two branches:—- • a. Superficial, (N. petrosus superficialis,) which passes into the skull through the cartilaginous and membran- ous substance, which fills up the foramen lacerum basis cranii anterius, is continued backwards in the canalis inno- minatus, and passing through the foramen innominatum it enters the stylo-mastoid canal, and joins with the facial nerve. p. Deep. (N. profundus.) After issuing from the pterygoid canal, passes backwards into the carotid canal, and there joins with the branches which form the communication between the sympathetic, and the fifth and sixth nerves of the brain. 5. Palatine. (N. palatinus, palato-maxillaris.) De- scends in the fossa between the pterygoid process of the sphe- noid bone and the palatine bone, and divides usually into three branches. The largest of the three descends through the pterygo-palatine canal, furnishing some branches to the membrane at the back part of the nose, and after passing inferiorly through the palato maxillary foramen, is continued upon the under surface of the bony palate) upon which it divides into three or four considerable branches, which take their course between the bone and membrane at the root of the alveolar process, and arc distributed to the membrane of