138 Sect. II. terior part of the outer condyle, passes obliquely downwards, and is attached below to the head of the fibula. 4. Posterior Ligament, Lig amentum posllcuiYi. Is formed of irregular bands which arise from the upper and back part of the outer condyle of the os femoris, descend obliquely, and are fixed below to the inner and back part of the head of the tibia. 5. Ligament of the Patella. Is placed ante- riorly, and is of great strength and size. It arises from the depression behind the apex of that bone, and is fixed below to the tubercle of the tibia. By means of this ligament the mus- cles inserted into the patella exert their action on the tibia in the extension of the leg. b. Capsule of Synovial Membrane, Membrana capsu- laris synovialis. It arises from the whole circumference of the under end of the os femoris, anteriorly a little above the margin of the articulating cartilage, and posteriorly immedi- ately above it. From this it descends and is fixed round the head of the tibia, and into the margin of the articulating sur- face of the patella, so that this bone projects somewhat into the cavity, and forms a part of the boundary of the joint. It is lost upon the articular cartilage of these parts. At the upper and fore part it lines also the under part of the exten- sors of the leg, and is connected to the other surrounding parts by a loose cellular texture. The synovial membrane forms' a fold on each side of the pat el1 a, in which are some ligamentous fibres, called the Alar Ligaments, Ligament a alaria. And another fold is extended from the patella to the depression in the os femoris, called the Mucous Ligament, Ligamentum mucosum. Neither the Alar nor Mucous Ligaments can be seen till the capsule is cut open. Depositions of adipose substance are found at different parts of the joint: for instance, about the circumference of the patella, in the above-mentioned fold, and between the projections of the thigh bone. c. Ligaments situated internally. These are the crucial ligaments, which most essentially contribute to strengthen the junction of the os femoris with the tibia. They arise from the depression between the con- dyles, and are so called from crossing each other. They are covered by the synovial membrane, but in fact are situated externally to it.