71 Sect. II. fibres of the muscle, and, if possible, from one extremity to the other. The skin, or other covering is then to'be taken between the fingers and thumb, and drawn from the surface of the muscle, so as to stretch the cellular membrane which connects them, and the edge of the knife is to be carried through this reticular texture, in the course of the fibres, from one end of the muscle to the other j and this is to be repeated with each bundle of fibres, and, if possible, from right to left, until the boundaries of the muscle are displayed. The Muscles of the Upper Extremity are distributed into regions, on the Trunk, Arm, Fore-Arm, and Hand. ยง 1. ON THE TRUNK. a, Anterior Thoracic, containing three muscles. 1. M. Pectoralis Major. Situation. On the fore and upper part of the chest j broad and irregularly triangular. Make a perpendicular in- cision from the top of the sternum to the ensiform cartilage, and another from the middle of the sternum transversely out- wards, along the anterior margin of the arm-pit; turn off the integuments by dissecting transversely upwards towards the clavicle, and downwards towards the cartilages of the ribs. Origin. By short tendinous fibres from the sternal half of the clavicle, commonly called its clavicular portion ; from nearly the whole length of the upper and middle bones of the sternum, called its sternal portion ; and from the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs. One slip is frequently joined with the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. Between the sternal and clavicular portions, there is frequently a distinct separation. The fibres extend and converge towards the axilla, opposite to which they have a folded appearance. Insertion. By a strong tendon, which crosses the front of the arm-pit, forming its anterior boundary, into the outer ridge of the bicipital groove. Use. To bring the arm forwards and obliquely upwards, and to rotate it inwards. Dissect back the muscle from its origin, and expose the M. pectoralis minor & subclavius. 2. M. Pectoralis Minor. Situation. On the front of the chest, to the outer side of