Sect. III. 175 between which they pass at the bottom of all the convolu- tions and form a firm tissue. The circumvolutions of the whole posterior lobe, and the posterior part of the middle lobe, arc folded behind the great fibrous bundle, (crus cerebri,) and the great inferior ganglion, (thalamus opticus,) and they pass in an oblique direction, to meet those of the opposite side in the mesial line. The poste- rior fibres of the middle lobe principally form the fornix; and its posterior internal fibres terminate in the posterior fold of the great commissure (corpus callosum.) The uniting fibres of the anterior convolutions of the middle, and those situated at the bottom of the fissura Sylvii, are collected at the fore part of the innermost convolu- tions of the middle lobe, and form a band about the size of a quill, which passes from without to within, crossing before and below the outer half of the superior ganglion, (corpus striatum,) but without adhering to it, to the mesial line, where it joins with its fellow: these together form an arc, the convexity of which faces forwards; this is known as the anterior commissure: it is easily seen by slicing oft* the under part of the superior ganglion. Another bundle connects the posterior part of the inferior ganglion to its fellow; it is narrow and short, passes but a slight distance into the ganglia, and does not extend into the convolutions; this is the posterior commissure : it may be shown by slicing- off the posterior upper parts of the inferior ganglia. The under part of the anterior lobes are joined before the superior ganglion by the fore part of the great commissure (corpus callosum.) The superior convolutions of the cerebrum are joined by the great commissure, corpus callosum, but as the anterior and posterior lobes are separated before and behind, their fibres cannot pass transversely to the mesial line, but those of the anterior lobes pass backwards and inwards, and those of the posterior forwards and inwards: the greatest number of fibres, therefore, joining at the anterior and posterior folds of the commissure, is the reason why the commissure is thick- est behind and before, and thinnest in the middle.' All the cerebral parts then are engendered, formed, and per- fected in the same manner as the other nervous systems, and like them the analogous parts of each hemisphere are con- nected by commissures in the mesial line. Besides the commissures which are connecting the hemispheres to each other, there are found peculiar trans- verse interlacements, wherever there is a great increase of nervous fibres, among the diverging fibres, this is often seen.