136 Sect. II. Jt is composed of a ligamento-cartilaginous substance, which surrounds and is attached to the brim of the acetabulum. It is stretched across the breach in that cavity so as to complete its edge, and it increases the depth of the whole cavity. The breach is filled up by strong ligamentous bands, which are sometimes called the Transverse Ligament. 3. Round Ligament, Ligamentum teres, rotun- (lum. Arises by a broad fiat attachment from the under and inner part of the cavity of the acetabulum. It passes upwards, becomes rounder, and is fixed by a broad attachment to the pit on the inner surface of the head of the os femoris. It is composed of longitudinal fibres, which are continuous with the cartilaginous lip of the acetabulum. The Synovial Membrane, Menibrana capsu- laris synovialis. Is continued from the acetabulum over the cartilaginous brim ; it lines the capsular ligament, and de- scends to the outer part of the neck, reaching farther down before than behind. It is then reflected back, and covers the neck to the cartilage of the head. The ligamentum teres is included also in a process of synovial membrane. The greater part of the acetabulum is covered by cartilage except at its under and middle part, which is the deepest, and contains a considerable quantity of fat. The Situation of the Hie Joint. Anteriorly, may be easily ascertained by taking the middle of Poupart’s ligament: this ligament extends from the su- perior anterior spinous process of the ilium to the symphysis pubis, and on the outer side of this point, about an inch and a half below it, is the front of the hip joint; on the outer and fore part the joint is covered by the psoas magnus & iliacus, as they pass over that part of the acetabulum which is formed by the ilium \ but on the inner part it is immediately behind the femoral artery, which rests on that part of the body of the os pubis immediately to the outer side of the origin of the pectineus. The fore and inner part of the joint then is situated between the psoas & iliacus on the outside, and the pectineus on the inner side, about an inch and a half below Poupart’s ligament, and directly behind the femoral artery. Posteriorly. The situation of the hip joint may be de- scribed by drawing a line from the top of the greater trochan- ter to the tuberosity of the ischium, and an inch above the middle of this line gives the situation of the joint behind, which is covered by the muscles in the gluteal & ischiadic regions.