Sect. III. 151 the lateral halves of the brain: this incision allows the mem- brane to be turned back, and exposes the Tunica Arachnoides. Is exceedingly thin, and therefore not easily distinguished from the pia mater, which it covers; but if a small opening be made, arid air blown into it, the membrane will be made apparent, and the air seen to insinuate itself through the reticular texture which connects it with the pia mater. At the base of the brain, as may be seen hereafter, (page 159,) it is much more distinct, being less connected with the pia mater. It is very tender in its texture, and has a whitish appearance, but is nearly transparent. It covers the whole surface of the brain, (and is continued with the medulla,oblongata, and spinal marrowj) but does not extend round the surface of each convolution, being spread from one to the other : it is most distinct above the interstices of the convolutions. It forms a smooth po- lished surface, where it is in contact with the Dura Mater. Pia Mater. Is the third and close covering to the brain, situated immediately under the arachnoid mem- brane. It is extended not only over the whole surface of the brain, entering also into its larger divisions, but dips in be- tween the convolutions ; and quitting the tunica arachnoides, it envelopes each eminence and depression on the surface, and forms the Tomentum Cerebri of Ruysch. It is also con- tinued into the interior, to line the cavities of the brain, enter- ing at four points, viz.—at the inferior cornu of each lateral ventricle; under the fornix and at the bottom of the fourth ventricle. Its texture is tender. It varies in thickness and consistence at different parts. When raised from the brain, its inner surface has a flocculent appearance, from the fine vessels which pass from it to the brain; and when injected, the membrane appears to consist almost entirely of blood- vessels. The larger branches, derived from the base of the brain, take their course through the pia mater, ramify and divide minutely, so as to form an intricate network of vessels, from which minute branches are sent into the brain. The veins of the pia mater are very large, and pass towards the sinuses in which they terminate'. OF THE BRAIN. The term Brain includes three different parts, into which the mass is divided, viz. 1. Cerebrum. 2. Cerebellum. 3. Medulla Oblongata. Some have comprehended also under the general term a fourth part, namely, Medulla Spinalis,