Sect. III. 367 surface is not connected with the tunica arachnoides. It ter- minates below in a single cord, which passes between the nerves of the cauda equina, and is united below with the dura mater. It has an anterior and a posterior production or ap- pendix, of which the former is the most distinct, which are continued into the corresponding fissures of the spinal marrow. Ligamentum Denticulatum, Serrated mem- brane. Is a narrow thin membrane, placed between the pia mater (of which it is considered by some anatomists as a pro- cess) and the tunica arachnoides on each side of the cord. Its inner border is straight and connected with the pia mater ; its outer one presents a series of angular projections or teeth, about twenty in number, which are firmly attached to the dura mater; they are small dense strong cords, which pass in the spaces between the nerves. The membrane begins at the top of the cord and reaches to the extremity of the dorsal por- tion. It appears to have a tendinous structure. We now proceed to the Spinal Marrow itself. Spinal Marrow, Chorda spinalis. Begins at the foramen magnum from the medulla oblongata. It is of a cylindrical figure. It may be divided into a cervical and dorsal portion. In its descent through the cervical vertebrae, it enlarges and again contracts, becoming as it enters the canal of the vertebrae dorsales somewhat smaller than above the en- largement. At the last dorsal vertebra it begins again to en- large, but less considerably, and terminates in a blunt extre- mity, nearly opposite to the first lumbar vertebra, where it is divided into several cords. It is much smaller than the vertebral canal. It is divided into two lateral halves by an anterior and posterior fissure, Jissura medullce spinalis me- diana anterior et posterior, which are extended along the whole anterior and posterior surfaces of the medullary sub- stance. The anterior is the more considerable ; but neither penetrate to the cineritious interior. The spinal marrow is composed of cineritious and medul- lary substance. The cineritious situated within and the me- dullary without. The spinal marrow is made up of two lateral double columns, which ascend parallel to each other, connected ante- riorly and posteriorly by a lamina of medullary substance. 'I he posterior columns continue their course: while the an- terior decussate at the upper end of the spinal marrow, so that the right becomes left, and the left right. Here the