352 Sect. V. right upper extremity, of the right half of the parietes and contents of the thorax, and of a part of the liver. 1. Left Trunk. Ductus thoracicus sinister. Begins between the crura of the diaphragm, upon the first or second lumbar vertebra, or sometimes as high as the twelfth dorsal vertebra, being formed by the junction of the absorbents of the lower extremities and of those of the abdo- minal viscera. The latter sometimes terminate by several trunks ; but it is formed, in most instances, by three trunks, of which the middle trunk receives the absorbents from the viscera, and the two others those of the lower extremities. Near, or at the part where these trunks unite, is formed the receptacle of the chyle, receptaculum, cysterna chyli, which is situated between the aorta and the right crus of the dia- phragm. In many instances, this is truly an enlargement of the under extremity of the duct of an oval or pyriform figure ; but frequently the appearance is found to be produced by the conglomeration of the numerous tortuous absorbent trunks, forming the thoracic duct, and intimately connected and covered by a dense cellular structure. The thoracic duct then passes behind and to the right of the aorta, between the crura of the diaphragm into the chest. It is at first placed upon the fore and right side of the vertebras, and takes its course upward, between the aorta and vena azygos. In its ascent it bends over to the left side, commonly about the fourth or fifth dorsal vertebra, behind the oesophagus, and continues its course behind the arch of the aorta, on the inner and back part of the left subclavian artery, and through the upper opening of the chest, as high as the upper edge of the last cervical vertebra. It then makes a turn downwards and inwards, and terminates in the upper aud back part of the angle formed by the left internal jugular and left sub- clavian vein, or occasionally in one only of these veins. About the middle of the chest it is usually somewhat con- tracted, but enlarges again superiorly. It is commonly more or less tortuous in its course, and most frequently divides into two or more collateral branches, which again unite, or some- times terminate separately. Occasionally it is found to divide into two branches, about the middle of the chest, one of which only terminates on the left, whilst the other passes to the right side of the neck. 2. Right Trunk. Ductus thoracicus dexter. It is much smaller than the left, and is seldom more than half an inch in length. It is formed by the absorbent vessels of the upper and right part of the body, as has been already