195 Sect. III. of a different colour from the rest of the skin of the breast. It varies in colour at different times of life, and during preg- nancy is of a darker colour than at other times, in conse- quence of a change which takes place in the rete mucosum. In the skin of the areola there are numerous sebaceous glands, or follicles. ยง 2. OF THE CONTENTS OF THE THORAX. The thorax or chest is the superior portion of the trunk; it is of a conical figure, the broadest part expanded over the upper part of the abdominal viscera. Its parietes are formed by the dorsal vertebrae, the ribs, and the sternum, assisted by the clavicle. These bones are bound together by strong liga- ments. Their interstices are filled up by the M. intercostales, stemo-costales, levatores & depressores costarum. There are likewise placed upon the chest strong muscles belonging to the vertebral column, the upper extremity, and abdomen. The contents of the thorax are the heart and pericardium, the two lungs and their investing membranes, the pleurae, and the contents of the mediastinum. Having removed the muscles in the anterior and lateral thoracic regions, and taken the upper extremity off, the dis- section is to be commenced by removing five or six of the up- per ribs, jn order to display The Pleura. The modem which this is to be managed is as follows: cut through the muscles in the intercostal spaces cautiously, and having so done, a thin semi-transparent mem- brane will be seen, which is the pleura; insinuate the handle of a knife between it and the rib, and separate them from the sternum to the angle of the rib, which should be sawn through at that part, and at its junction with the sternum. The Pleura is a thin semi-transparent membrane lining the pa- rietes internally. Externally, where it is attached to the parts which it covers, it is cellular; internally, it is smooth, and lubricated by a small quantity of serous fluid, which exists in the form of vapour in the living state. It 73 called a reflected, membrane. The term reflected, which is likewise applied in a similar sense to other membranes having a similar dis- position, is here equivalent to turned back. Thus it gives a close covering to the lung, and is then turned back to give it a second covering, which adheres to the parietes; the investing portion and the reflected portion being continuous, and their internal surfaces in contact throughout, but smooth and without attachments, so as to form a circumscribed cavity without outlet, containing only the proper secretion of the membrane. The term cavity, here and in other instances, is not meant to imply actual interspace or vacuity. It denies the adhesion and connection, not the con- tact, of the surfaces by which it is formed. If, therefore, the pleura were separated from the parts with which it is exteriorly connected, it would be