Sect V. 323 direction, as far as the glans. It gives off branches to the skin and ligamentous covering of the penis, and passes into the substance behind the glans. y. Deep. (A. profunda penis vel clitoridis.) Passes into the crus penis, and is continued forward through the corpus cavernosum, dividing in its course into numerous branches, which freely communicate with those of the oppo- site side. 7. umbilical. A. umbilicalis. In the foetus it is the continuation of the internal iliac, and is an artery of large size. But after birth it contracts and remains pervious only as far as the bladder. It passes forwards at the side and upper part of the bladder, towards the parietes of the ab- domen, and at its beginning sends off one or two branches to the bladder. 8. vesical. A.vesicciles. Consist of one or more branches from the internal iliac, internal pudic, and umbilical arteries, which descend to the under and back part of the bladder, and are distributed to the bladder, to the prostate gland, and vesiculae seminales in the male, and to the vagina in the female. 9. middle hemorrhoidal. A. hcemorrhoidalis media. Is sometimes a branch from one of the divisions of the in- ternal iliac, and sometimes is wanting altogether. It supplies branches to the fore part of the rectum, and forms communi- cations with the other luemorrhoidal branches. 10. vaginal. A. vaginalis. Is not a constant branch, but is frequently supplied from one of the other pelvic arteries. It is distributed to the vagina and bladder. 11. uterine. A. uterina. It takes its course to the upper part, of the vagina, and detaches one or two branches to the vagina and bladder, then ascends at the side of the uterus, between the layers of the broad ligament. It is tor- tuous in its course. It divides into branches to the uterus, some of which pass to its appendages} and it anastomoses with branches of the spermatic artery. b. External Iliac Artery. A. 1liaca Externa. Passes forwards from the internal iliac, takes its qoursc outwards and downwards along the psoie muscles, accom- panied by the corresponding vein, which is situated behind and to its inner side, and covered by the peritonaeum, It y 2