344 Sect. V. In consequence of the situation of the superior cava to the right, these Subclavian Veins, between their origin and the scaleni, differ considerably on the right and left sides. The left is nearly twice the length of the right: its direction is nearly horizontal, or but slightly oblique : it takes its course immediately before and above the arch of the aorta, and be- hind the upper edge of the sternum to the left. The right, on the contrary, has nearly a vertical direction. Both are placed to the outer side of the sternum, behind the cartilage of the first rib, the sternal extremity of the clavicle, and the mus- cles attached to these parts. The branches which the Sub- clavian veins furnish are six large, viz.—Superior inter- costal—Internal mammary—Inferior thyroideal—Vertebral— External jugular—Internal jugular; and some branches of less importance to the diaphragm, the thymus gland, and the pericardium. 1. superior intercostal. V. intercostalis suprema. From the lower and back part of the subclavian. The right divides into branches to the two uppermost intercostal spaces. The left is considerably larger than the right, and is sometimes a branch of the vertebral ; it divides into branches which ac- company the intercostal arteries on the left side as far as the seventh or eighth intercostal space, and anastomoses with branches of the azygous vein. It gives off also the a. Left bronchial vein, which is distributed like the right. 2. internal mammary. V. mammaria interna. It ac- companies, and corresponds with the artery of the same name. 3. interior thyroideal. V. thyroulea inferior. The right arises nearer to the extremity of the subclavian on the same side, than the left, and sometimes takes its origin from the superior cava itself. It passes upwards and inwards, and divides into branches which form anastomoses with branches of the opposite vein, and are distributed to the thyroid gland, and adjacent parts. The ramification of these branches about the trachasa has been called the thyroideal plexus. 4. vertebral. Vena vertebralis. Arises from the back part of the subclavian. It passes obliquely upward and back- ward, takes its course to the foramen in the transverse pro- cess of the seventh cervical vertebra, and is continued with the vertebral artery, before which it is placed, through the transverse processes of the vertebrae above. It usually gives