Sect. IV. 273 than those of the intestines. The external fibres which form the strongest portion of the tunic, run for the most part lengthwise on the bladder. More internally the fibres are shorter, are not placed in planes, but intermixed with each other, and take various oblique directions, so that the bladder may be contracted in every dimension during its evacuation. The fibres behind the prostate are strong and numerous, and have been called the sphincter vesicce ; but there seems to be no good reason for this distinction. The third, or inner, is formed of mucous membrane: it is united to the muscular by cellular membrane, which has been called a nervous coat. This mucous membrane is thin, presents a smooth surface, and in the healthy condition has a whitish appearance. It is rendered unequal by the projection of the bundles of muscular fibres, so as to form folds when the bladder is empty. Its internal surface is lubricated by mucus secreted, doubtless, from follicles, but which are not distinct. At the under part of the bladder are situated three ofenings ; of which one is placed anteriorly, the other two posteriorly. The anterior is the beginning of the urethra, formed by the neck of the bladder. The two posterior are the openings of the ureters, which are found with some dif- ficulty. The ureters near their termination run obliquely forwards for about an inch, between the muscular and mu- cous coat of the bladder; they terminate upon its inner coat by contracted, and somewhat oval "openings, at about half an inch distance from each other, and at the same distance behind the beginning of the urethra. This kind of termina- tion answers the purpose of a valve into the ureter. Prostate Gland. Is of a rounded figure, about the size of a large chestnut, embraces the neck of the bladder and beginning of the urethra, but so that the greater part by far is situated interiorly. It has been compared in its figure to that of a heart, as represented on playing-cards. The base, or broad part is placed posteriorly, the apex, or narrow part is placed anteriorly and interiorly towards the bulb. The lower surface is convex and projecting, and is divided by a longitudinal middle line, marking the division of the prostate into two lobes, which project laterally at the lower and lateral parts of the urethra. The upper surface towards the bladder is more or less concave, but at the middle of the base, between the common seminal ducts and the bladder, is placed a third projection or lobe, particularly distinct in cases of dis- eased enlargement, and described by Morgagni, and more T