250 Sect. IV. cave edges project unattached into the cavity. They are united at the extremities, and lost upon the parietes, as before stated. These two folds bound the orifice of the ilium ; the inferior being the larger. The valve is formed by a projection of the internal membrane of the ilium doubled upon itself, and then continued with that of the coecmn and colon. Within this, chiefly in the inferior flap, are found some muscular fibres, of the circular order. The peritomeal covering does not enter into its structure, and, if it be cut through, the ilium may be drawn from the large intestines, so as to demonstrate" the structure of the valve, while we deprive it of its valvular form. Within the folds that form the lips are some whitish firm fibres of a tendinous structure, called the retinacula or freena Morgagni. t Colon. It has the same structure and appearance as the coecum. Its peritonaeal covering is seldom found com- plete on the ascending and descending portions. Rectum. It will be examined most conveniently after the dissection of the pelvis. See page 269. It is cylin- drical : not so capacious as the colon, but occasionally found exceedingly enlarged from accumulated feces; and it is always soqaewhat larger just above the anus. Its external surface does not present the eminences of the colon, for the longitudinal fibres are equally dispersed and not collected in fasciculi. The peritonceal covering is most often defective at the posterior part of the rectum, and, in its lowest third, is wholly wanting. This covering is liable to vary from the varying size of the surrounding organs: thus it will be less covered under the enlarged state of the uterus, and in some degree under excessive distension of the bladder. The mus- cular coat is considerably thicker and stronger, the longitudi- nal fibres are spread over the intestine, not collected in fasciculi, and are lost towards the extremity. On the other hand, the circular are particularly strong towards the ex- tremity, and are sometimes called the internal sphincter. The mucous coat is somewhat thicker and redder; its internal surface is disposed in longitudinal and transverse folds, called the columns of the rectum, the most remarkable of which are at the inferior part. These folds are caused by the contraction of the circular fibres. The mucous glands are found in greater abundance. ยง 4. OF THE LIVER. The liver may first be examined in situ, in order to become acquainted with its attachments. These are called the L>iga-