\ 284 Sect. IV. entrance of a bristle. Towards the uterus they arc narrow, but become gradually lai'ger in their passage toward the sides of the pelvis. Near their outer extremities they are uncon- nected, convoluted, and considerably dilated, and terminate by open and expanded mouths sufficiently large to admit the point of a goose-quill. About the orifices are the irregular pointed projections called fimbriae, which are considerably longer on one side than on the other, (sometimes called mor- sus tliaboli.) The canal of the tube is very minute at its origin within the uterus, but afterwards dilates. The substance of the fallopian tubes has been supposed to be muscular. It is lined by a very delicate membrane pro- bably of the mucous kind, but which it is extremely difficult to separate. It is chiefly remarkable for being furnished with many small longitudinal plicae, which are most conspicuous towards the outer extremities. Ovaries. Ovaria. Are situated at the sides of the fundus uteri, about an inch distant from it, and are con- tained in the posterior pinions of the ligamenta lata, which give them a complete covering except at the one edge, by which they are more or less closely fixed to the ligament. They are of an oval figure, flattened on their anterior and posterior surfaces; and the size of each, when in a state of maturity, is less than the male testicle. Their surface is irregular, and is, as it were, furrowed. They are attached to the uterus by a small fibrous cord about an inch and a half in length, placed behind and a little above the round ligament called the ligament of the ovary. The ovaria are internally composed of a loose whitish cellular substance contained within a white dense tendinous-like membrane, resembling somewhat the tunica albuginea. Within the cellular texture are vessels and nerves, and from fifteen to twenty vesicles, of which the largest are seldom equal to the size of a small gar- den pea. They are called the vesicles of De Graaf; are formed of a delicate membrane, which contains an albuminous fluid; and are supposed to include the rudiments of the foetus.