64 Sect. I. Covering to part of the ethmoidal sinuses ; the posterior process is the sphenoidal process, processus sphenoidalis, which joins to the anterior inferior part of the body of the os sphenoides: the notch between the two processes forms the lower part of the spheno palatine hole, foramen spheno palatinum, the remainder of which is formed by the os sphenoides. The Foramina in this bone are two perfect and one im- perfect. The two perfect are Foramen palato maxillare, is the junction of the palatine with the pterygoid process for the passage of the palatine vessels and nerves. Foramen palatinum, for the passage of branches of the same nerve and vessels. The imperfect one is Foramen spheno palatinum, formed in part by the os palati, and in part by the os sphenoides, for the passage of the spheno palatine nerve into the nose. Junctions. The os palati joins to its fellow by the pala- tine process ; and by their nasal crest to the vomer : by the anterior part of the palatine process to the same jirocess of the os maxillare superius; by the ridge on the inside to the os turbinatum ; by the nasal and pterygoid processes to the body and tuberosity of the os maxillare superius ; by its pterygoid, sphenoidal, and orbitar processes to the pterygoid processes and body of the os sphenoides; and by its orbitar process to the same process of the os maxillare superius, and the flat plate of the os ethmoides. The muscles attached to and connected with the os palati, are five ; viz. M. buccinator, pterygoideus externus & interims, constrictor pharyngis superior, & azygos uvulie. TURBINATED BONES. Ossa Turbinata. Situation. On the outer sides of the cavities of the nostrils. Description. The os turbinatum is composed of two un- equal concave plates, joined together above, with their con- cavities facing towards each other; the outer plate the narrowest, and joined to the body of os maxillare superius, forming part of the inner wall of the maxillary sinus ; the inner plate the broadest, and depending into the nose; its anterior edge slightly concave, and attached to the ridge on the nasal process of "the os maxillare superius, just touching the lachrymal plate of the os lachrymale, to complete the nasal duct; its posterior extremity very acute and attached to the ridge on the nasal process of the os palati. Junctions. Above and to the outer side, with the body of the os maxillare superius ; anteriorly, to the nasal process of