Sect. ITT. 203 lower part is the opening of the vena cava inferior, which is directed obliquely inwards and upwards. At the part which is common to the' two cavae, Lower has described a tubercle ; it is found in brutes, but in the human subject it is problem- atical, or at least extremely indistinct. At the circumference of the vena cava inferior is a projecting fold of the internal membrane, called the valve of Eustachius, valvula no- bilis Eustachii; which varies considerably in size, and often has small perforations : it begins inferiorly, is continued transversely upwards and inwards, and terminates on the par- tition of the auricle. Below the valve of Eustachius, and immediately above the ventricle, is the opening of the co- ronary vein. To prevent the reflux of this blood, this orifice is provided with a valve, which is called from its figure the semilunar valve, vaivula semilunaris. Anteriorly, and above, is the cavity of the appendix, from the sides of which project bundles of fleshy fibres, crossing each other, but covered by the membrane proper to the auricle. Below, is the opening which forms the communication between the auricle and ventricle, the auricular, or auriculo-ventri- cular opening. To the inner side the auricle is formed by the septum common to it, and the left auricle. In the septum is a depression called the fossa ovalis, bounded by a semi- lunar fold of membrane of considerable strength, the inferior extremity of which is continued with the valve of Eustachius. The bottom of the fossa is formed by a similar valve in the left auricle; and if the handle of a scalpel be passed between the valves, the adhesion may be commonly overcome so as to reestablish the opening of the foramen ovale, which in the foetal state forms a communication between the two auricles. Right Ventricle. Is of larger size than the auricle, and of a pyramidal figure. Its upper part, or base, answers to the opening of communication with the auricle to the right, and that of the pulmonary artery to the left. Its inferior extremity is situated at the apex of the heart, but a little higher than that of the left ventricle. The right ventricle should be opened by two incisions, one of which is carried along the upper part of the ventricle trans- versely, and the other by the side of the septum; the inci- sions meeting below the pulmonary artery. A triangular flap i9 thus formed, and the internal structure displayed. On its sides are found numerous bundles of fleshy fibres, called the fleshy bundles, carnecc columnae, which are so disposed as to form an irregular network ; they are of various sizes, but the larger are situated generally nearer the basis, and become