50 Sect. I. which is a groove for the lodgment of the superior maxillary nerve; more backwards, and to the outer side, is the oval hole, foramen ovale, and behind it in the extreme angle, is the spinous hole, foramen spinosum. The anterior upraised surface of the pars temporalis forms the orbitar plate, lamella orbitaris, of a triangular shape, with the base forwards and outwards, the orbitar plate faces upwards and inwards, form- ing the back and outer part of the orbit; its lower edge forms the upper margin of the inferior lacerated orbitar hole, or spheno maxillary fissure, foramen lacerum orbitare inferius. The outer surface joining at an obtuse angle with the orbitar plate, is the temporal plate, lamella temporalis, which forms part of the fossa temporalis; extending back from the tem- poral fossa is the spinous process, processus spinosus, which passes backwards, and dipping down forms a little process, the styloid process, processus styliformis. The Pterygoid Portions Are situated at the under part, on either side of the body of the bone, extending downwards from its junction with the temporal portions: they bound above, and to the sides, the posterior openings of the nostrils. Each pars pterygoidea is divided into two plates, laminae, having between each two the pterygoid pit, fossa pterygoidea, which, as the laminae pass down and separate, terminates in the pterygo-palatine fissure, fissura pterygo palatina ; the nasal plate, lamina nasalis, is the longest, it faces slightly outwards and terminates in a little curved process, the hook-like process, jmocessus hamularis, over which the tendon of the M. tensor palati plays : the outer plate is the muscular plate, lamina muscularis, which is the broadest and strongest, but shortest; it faces considerably outwards and forwards, and is deeply hollowed behind : on the upper and fore part is seen the beginning of the pterygo palatine canal, canalispterygopalatinus, by which the palatine nerve passes into the mouth; the anterior surfaces of both la- minae are roughly marked where they join with the ossa palati. The Foramina in the os sphenoides are seven pairs per- fect, and four imperfect. The perfect foramina are, 1. Foramina optica, for the passage of the optic nerves and ocular arteries from the skull. 2. Foramina lacera orbitaria superiora, for the passage of the common oculo muscular, inner oculo muscular, opthalmic branch of the trigeminal, and the outer oculo muscular nerves from the skull, and the ocular veins into it. 3. Foramina rotunda, for the superior maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve.