368 Sect. V. the mouth and gums. The two or three smaller, after pass- ing some way in the canal with the larger, descend through separate bony passages, and are distributed to the tonsil, velum palati, and the pillars of the fauces. 6. lnfra-orbitar. (N. infra-orbitaris.) Appears like the continuation of the nerve itself. It is directed for- wards, and takes its course through the infra-orbitar canal. Within the canal it gives off branches, which, passing through passages in the upper jaw, are distributed to the membrane of the nose, and to the incisor, cuspidati, and the bicuspides teeth of the upper jaw. It then passes through the infra- orbitar foramen, and immediately divides into a number of considerable branches, distributed to the skin and muscles of the cheek, to the under eyelid, to the nose, and to the upper lip. (3.) THIRD PRANCH OF THE FIFTH PAIR. INFERIOR maxillary. (R. tertius, maxillaris superior.) The largest of the three branches from the semilunar ganglion. It passes downward and forwards, quits the cranium through the fora- men ovale, and becomes covered by the pterygoideus externus muscle. It then divides into branches distributed to the muscles of the lower jaw, which sometimes come off by a single trunk, and to the tongue and the lower jaw; of these the first four arc not of great size, but the last three are, viz. 1. Deep temporal. (N. temporales profundi.) Commonly two in number, distributed to the temporalis muscle. 2. Temporal. Passes outwards behind the neck of the lower jaw, divides into twigs to the ear, and to the side of the head, and forms communications with branches of the facial nerve. 3. Buccal. (N. buccinatorius.) Is of larger size, passes downwards between the pterygoidei muscles to the buccinator, and furnishes branches to the pterygoideus in- terims and buccinator muscles, and to the membrane and glands of the cheek. 4. Pterygoid. (N. pteiygoideus.) Distributed to the pterygoideus interims muscle. 5. Masseierine. (N. massetericus.) Passes along the outer side of the pterygoideus externus, behind the tendon of the temporalis, winds round the neck of the lower jaw to supply the masseter muscle. 6. Dental, alveolar. (N. dentalis, alveolaris maxillae inferioris, maxillaris inferior.) Passes downwards and outwards first between the pterygoidei, and then between the pterygoideus externus and the condyle of the lower jaw