412 Sect. VI. always considered as the constrictor or orbicular muscle, which surrounds the pupil; “ by a well defined distinct circle about the twentieth part of an inch in diameter and of a denser structure than the rest of the iris,” which is best seen from behind by washing oft' the uvea. Cut round the choroid coat and expose the Membrana Jacohi. Which separates the cho- roid from the retina: it has lately been discovered by Dr. Jacob. It extends from the optic nerve as far as the ciliary processes ; is of a uniform villous structure, and more or less tinged by the black pigment. Beneath it is found the Retina. Is the third membrane. The optic nerve, in its continuation through the orbit, is covered by elongations of the dura and pia mater, as far as its passage through the coats of the eye. At the back part of the ball of the eye, and a little removed from the axis toward the nose, its fasciculi pass through the sclerotic, and through the cho- roid coat. It contracts at its passage through the sclerotic, and immediately afterwards expands and forms the retina; which extends between the choroid coat and capsule of the vitreous humour, but does not adhere to either. Arrived at the ciliary body, the retina appears to terminate ; but a thin layer is continued under the ciliary processes which is known as the ligament of the retina. This may be seen by cautiously raising the choroid coat and ciliary processes in water, leaving this portion of the retina, which is very thin, upon the vitreous humour. The texture of this membrane resembles medullary substance, as far as it is tender and pul- py, and of a light grey colour; but it is semi-transparent. " Soemmering has discovered in the retina, at one-sixth of an inch outwards from the entrance of the optic nerve, di- rectly in the axis of the eye, a central hole of a dark colour, with a yellow border, becoming paler towards the circumfer- ence. Close to it is a fold from the insertion of the optic nerve, extending about one-sixth of an inch outwards. OF THE HUMOURS. The Humours of the Eye are each contained in proper capsules of their own. 1. Vitreous Humour. Js the largest in quantity of the humours, filling the posterior part of the globe, and occupying more than three-fourths ot the eye. It is convex on all sides, except anteriorly, where it lodges the crystalline