169 Sect. III. It terminates below about the second lumbar vertebra ; where may be seen two little knots or ganglia, of which the lower is small and conical, and the upper large and oval. Above, it is said to terminate at the foramen magnum, immediately above which it is much increased in size to form the enlarge- ment known as the medulla oblongata. The Spinal Marrow is divided into two columns, by an anterior and posterior fissure, which extend perpendicularly through its whole length ; of these the former is the broadest and the most distinct, but the latter is the deepest; which may be seen by making* a transverse section. Two collateralfissures are also seen, one on each side of the posterior fissure, which passing down from the upper part, are lost opposite the first dorsal vertebra. When the vascular tissue is removed, the nervous fibres in the anterior fissure will be seen, running in a direction parallel to the lateral edges of the spinal marrow ; while those in the posterior pass perpendicularly from the surface to the bottom of the fissure. The anterior fissure is also further distinguished by the decussation ox the fibres of the pyramids at the beginning of the medulla oblongata. The columns are joined at the bottom of the fissures by a layer of nervous matter, forming a commissure ; on the pos- terior part of which, two longitudinal bands pass down ; and on the anterior numerous little transverse bands run across towards each other, but do not join, their points being re- ceived between each other like the points on the crowns of the teeth. The grey substance is deposited in each column in form of an arched layer, with its concavity outwards, hav- ing one of its points before, and the other behind ; from each of these arise bundles of nerves, so that there are anterior and posterior nerves ; the former of which have been proved by Majendie to be nerves of voluntary motion, and the latter of sensation. The small nerves of each enlargement having passed through the dura mater, a ganglion is formed by the posterior bundles which are the largest, to which the anterior are firmly attached, but without being intermixed. Within each portion of grey substance a canal may be found extending through the whole length of the spinal marrow, which is easily shown by throwing in air with a blow-pipe ; they pass up through the medulla oblongata, the pons Varolii, under the tubercula quadrigemina, and through the peduncles as far as the thalami nervorum opticorum, in which they form cavities that may be inflated to the size of an almond, and are bounded before by the junction of the thalami with the corpora striata; but no communication between them and the ventricles has yet been discovered.