Sect. I. 15 The muscles attached to the sacrum are the M. longissimi dorsi, sacro-lumbales, multifidi spinse, glutei maximi pyri- formes & coccygei. The Coccyx. Os Coccygis. Situation. At the tip of the os sacrum. Description. The Coccyx consists of three or four pieces, in shape resembling the sacrum, and movable upon it, and one another, till late in life, when they become anchylosed into a single bone : the upper is the largest, and the lower the smallest piece ; they have plain oval concave articular sur- faces above and below for each other; the upper surface of the first piece is the largest, and receives upon it the point of the sacrum : behind and to the outer sides of this surface are two little horns, cornua, giving attachment to ligaments : the lowest point of the last piece is rounded : the lateral edges answering to transverse processes are thin and sharp : neither piece is perforated by the spinal canal. The muscles attached to it are the M. coccygei. General View of the Pelvis. The Pelvis, composed of the ossa innominata, os sacrum and os coccygis, is divided into two cavities by the linea ilio pec- tinea, which extends from the front on either side as far as the sacro iliac symphysis, sharp before .and obtuse behind. The upper cavity or false pelvis only partial, being defi- cient in front; its lateral and posterior parts are formed by the venter of the ilia, and the fore part is completed by the abdominal muscles, against which the abdominal viscera rest. The lower cavity, or true pelvis, is bounded anteriorly by the ossa pubis and ischii, laterally by the ossa ischii, and a small portion of the ossa ilii, and posteriorly by the os sacrum and os coccygis. It contains in the male the bladder and rectum; and in the female besides them, the vagina and uterus. The upper opening is called the brim, facies abdominalis : its figure resembles the shape of the heart painted on cards, the point of which is placed in front. The diameter of the brim differs much in the male and female pelvis, in the former it is greater from pubis to sacrum, in the latter from ilium to ilium. The lower opening is named the outlet, it is of an irregu- lar diamond shape, and having the points before, behind and on the sides : in the male it is comparatively small, but in the female very large, and within the latter the greatest extent is from pubis to sacrum, on account of the sacrum not being so much curved as in the male.