Sect. II. 139 1. Anterior Crucial Ligament, Ligamentum cruciatum anterius. Arises from the inner side of the outer condyle of the os femoris ; it passes downwards, inwards, and forwards, crossing the posterior ligament, and is fixed below to a depression on the fore part of the head of the tibia, be- tween the articulating surfaces. 2. Posterior Crucial Ligament, Ligamentum cruciatum posterius. Is stronger and broader than the former; it arises from the outer side of the inner condyle of the os fe- moris, it passes downwards, outwards and backwards, and is fixed to a depression on the back part of the head of the tibia, a bony protuberance separating" it from the insertion of the former. The Semilunar Interarticular Cartilages. Two in number, and named from their figure, are broader be- hind than before ; their outer convex edge is thick, while the inner concave edge is thin and sharp ; they are hollowed out above so as to render the sockets for the condyles of the os femoris deeper, are more or less flat below, and they cover ahout two-thirds of the tibia. The inner edge of each is un- attached ; the outer is fixed to the circumference of the head of the tibia, by means of the capsule of the joint, which por- tion is generally known as the Ligaments of the Semilunar Car- tilages, Ligament a semilunaria. Their extremities are at- tached by strong fibrous bands to the protuberance between the articulating surface on the head of the tibia, and the an- terior extremities are connected by a strong transverse band, called the Transverse Ligament, Ligamentum transversum. In this way the ligaments of the knee joint may be enu- merated as thirteen,'five without and seven within the capsule, which is usually considered as one ; the five are, the internal lateral, the long and short external lateral, the posterior, and the ligament of the patella; the seven are, the two alar, the mucous, two crucial, two semilunar, and one transverse; the capsule makes the thirteenth. Practical Points, fractures:—Of the con- dyles of the os femoris—of the patella. Dislocation of the tibia :—forwards, backwards, inwards, outwards—of the patella—of the interarticular cartilages. Loose substances within the joint. § 4. OF THE TIBIA AND FIBULA. ' These bones are connected by four ligaments.