Sect. I. 37 THE BONES OF THE SKULL, • Strictly so called, have been beforementionecl as two pairs and two.single bones. FRONTAL BONE. Os Front*. Situation. In the anterior superior part of the skull, form- ing the forehead and part of the temples above, and to the sides ; and the roof of the orbits belo\y. Description. The os frontis nearly resembles in shape, a clam shell: it is convex and regular before, concave and slightly irregular behind : convex from before backwards, and from side to side above j and irregularly concave below. On the External Surface, It is naturally divided into two portions by the superciliary ridges, arcus superciliares, situated at the most anterior in- ferior part of the bone; that, which is above the ridges is called, the fr onto-temporal portion ; and that behind them, the ethmoido orbital portion. In the Fronto-Temporal, Portion are found, Immediately above the superciliary ridges the two frontal prominences, protuber antice front ales, just above the inner corners of the orbits, and marking the situation of the frontal sinuses, sinus frontales : about an inch above them and rather to their outer side are two other projections which mark the beginning of ossification : extending up- wards and backwards from the lowest part of the bone, in the mesial line is seen a slight ridge more or less projecting, marking the place at which the bone was divided into two portions in the young subject, and also part of the course of the longitudinal sinus of the dura mater within the skull : the sides of this portion forming the temples are separated from the forehead, -by the temporal arches, arcus temporales, which at first are very strongly marked below, and become less distinct as they pass upwards and backwards; the hollows below form parts of the temporal pits, fossce tempo- rales, in which the M. temporales lay. The posterior edge of the fronto-temporai portion is deeply serrated as far as the temporal arches and bevelled from above downwards and for wards, whilst that below the ridges is squamous and slightly serrated downwards and backwards. In the Ethmoido-Orbital Portion are found, In the middle, the nasal process,processus nasa- lis, deeply denticulated, and springing out from it is the