148 Sect. III. Contents of the Longitudinal Sinus: these are, the openings of the veins, the greater number of which take their course, and enter the sinus obliquely from behind to before; the chorda; Willisii, numerous tendinous fibres, near the ori- fices of the veins ; and likewise a number of the glandulce Pacchioni. Cut through the Dura Mater on one side, and turn it back; its internal surface will then be seen smooth and unconnected, except where the veins enter the sinuses : it is lubricated by a secretion which gives facility of motion, and prevents the ill effects of friction. The structure of the Dura Mater is dense, firm, and tendi- nous-like. It is one of the thickest and strongest membranes of the body. It has been said to be composed of layers : and parts of it may, in fact, be separated into two or more thin portions, but it possesses no regularly laminated structure. It is made up of numerous tendinous-like fibres, which may be separated by maceration : they run in various directions, and are intimately matted together. Some of them have a shining appearance, and are particularly distinct on the inner surface. The dura mater is not a very vascular part; it is principally supplied by a branch from the internal maxillary artery,_called spheno-spinal, which, after passing through the spin- ous foramen, ramifies on the sides of the membrane. It is likewise supplied by branches from the internal carotid and the vertebral arteries. The vessels most manifest on the exterior of the membrane are the veins, which are placed external to the arteries, accompanying them, and terminating, some in the nearest sinuses, and others, after passing through perforations in the cranium, in the internal and external jugular veins. These vessels are the principal cause of the adhesion : but at some parts the connection is much more intimate, as at the sutures, from processes which pass in between them, and at the different foramina from other processes which are conti- nued along with the nerves.* The Dura Mater sends in several Processes between the different parts of the brain, and also forms the Sinuses, which answer nearly the same purpose as veins. Neither the pro- cesses or sinuses, however, can be properly seen till the whole of the cerebral mass has been removed; but they arc described here as being formed by the Dura Mater. Processes of the Dura Mater. 1. Falx Major (falciform process.) .So called from being like a sickle; or Septum Cerebri, from its separating the two hemispheres of the cerebrum; is formed by a doubling of the dura mater. It begins from the crista galli and middle of the sphenoid bone; is continued directly backwards as far as the protuberance of the os occipitis. It is attached in its * The paragraphs in small print may be read at the student’s leisure, as they principally refer to the intimate structure ot the parts desciibed, and may therefore be omitted in the dissection.