390 Sect. V. of the great toe, to the flexor brevis digitorum, the flexor ac- cessorius, and to the lumbrieales, divides into four plantar digital branches. 1. First plantar digital, which is continued along the inner side of the great toe to its tip. 2. Second, continued to the interstice between the first or great toe and the second toe, where it divides into one branch which passes along the outer side of the great toe, and another which takes its course along the inner side of the second toe. 3. Third, which passes to the interstice between the second and third toe, where it divides to these toes in the same manner as the former. 4. Fourth, which divides to supply the third and fourth toe in like manner. Outer Plantar. N. plantaris externus. Passes on the outer or fibular side of the posterior tibial artery till its division, when it takes its course outward and forward with the artery of the same name, between the flexor brevis and flexor accessorius; and after giving off twigs to these mus- cles and to the skin, divides into three branches, two plantar digital and one deep branch : 1. Fourth plantar digital, divides at the inter- stice between the fourth and fifth toes into two branches, one of which is continued along the outer side of the fourth, and the other along the inner side of the fifth toe, to their ex- tremity. 2. Fifth, passes along the outer side of the foot, and after giving off twigs to the abductor of the fifth toe,, is continued to its extremity. 3. Deep, passes obliquely inwards and forwards, deep-seated between the tendons of the flexor longus digito- rum and the interossei. It gives off twigs to the interossei, transversalis, lumbrieales, to the muscles of the little toe, and to those of the great toe. ยง 6. SYMPATHETIC NERVE. N. Gangliosus, Sympatheticus, Intercostalis, Systema Gan- gliorum, Systema Vitae Automaticae. This nerve is so essentially distinguished from the other nerves of the body, that it may be described separately, or as a separate system of nerves. It consists of a considerable number of ganglia, (of which the number and size differ not only in different individuals,