116 Sect. II. 5. M. Adductor Magnus Femoris. ' Situation. Behind the two last muscles ; it is the largest of the three, and extends along the whole of the inside of the thigh. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy, lower than the former from the ramus of the os pubis, and from the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium. Its fibres pass with different degrees of obli- quity outwards and downwards. Insertion. Behind the pectineus, and the other adductors, into the whole length of the inner edge of the linea aspera, into the ridge which extends from it to the inner condyle of the os femoris, and by a roundish tendon into the same con- dyle. Its tendon has a hole in it for the passage of the femoral vessels to the ham. Use. These three muscles have the same use, viz. to bring the thigh inwards and upwards; and to roll it in a slight degree outwards. 6. M. Obturator Externus. Situation. On the front of the obturator hole: it cannot be seen distinctly till the M. pectineus and triceps be cut away. O) •igin. From the os pubis and ischium, where forming the circumference of the obturator foramen, and from the li- gamentous expansion which occupies that opening. The fibres converge and pass outwards behind the cervix of the os femoris, where they are covered by the M. quadratus femoris. Insertion. By a strong tendon, into the cavity at the root of t he trochanter major. Use. To roll the thigh outwards obliquely. d. Posterior Crural, containing three muscles. 1. M. Sjemi-tendinosus. Situation. On the inner and back part of the thigh: it is named from an oblique tendinous intersection in its fleshy part. Origin. By a tendon which is united with that of the long head of the biceps flexor cruris, from the posterior part of the tuberosity of the ischium; it terminates in a long, round- ish tendon. Insertion. Into the upper part of the inner surface of the tibia, immediately below the gracilis, its tendon spreading at that part. Use. To extend the thigh on the pelvis, and at the same time to bend the leg backwards and a little inwards.