99 Sect. II. are in a great degree manifest before the integuments have been removed. * 1. Interclavjcular Ligament. Ligamentum interclaviculare. Is formed of transverse fibres, and ex- tends from the one clavicle to the other ; in its course being attached to the upper bone of the sternum, above which it rises in the form of a thin edge. It connects, there- fore, the two clavicles with each other, and with the ster- num, and prevents the former from being carried too far backwards. 2. Claviculo Costal, or Rhomboid Ligament. Ligamentum rhomboideum. Named from its connection or from its figure. It is attached above to the rhomboid process at the under and fore part of the clavicle, and below to the cartilage of the first rib. It fixes the clavicle, and moderates - its motions. 3. Capsular Ligament. Ligamentum capsulare. Is formed by fibres which are distinct, more especially on the anterior and posterior parts, and are attached to the bones about the articulating surfaces: those before are the strongest; those behind, from their direction, have been called the ra- diated ligament. Contained within the capsular ligament is The Inter articular Cartilage. It is found between the articulating surfaces, and divides the joint into two cavities. It is thin in the centre, being hollowed out in both surfaces, and thick at the circumference, where it is unconnected with the sternum and the capsular ligament. The Synovial Membrane. Forms two capsules which correspond to the divisions of this joint by the inter- articular cartilage. h. Of the Claviculo Scapular Articulation. The connection of the clavicle to the acromion of the scapula is by means of three ligaments. This articulation, like the former, is situated so superficially, as to admit readily of examination beneath its common covering’s. 1. Capsular Ligament. Ligamentum capstt- ture. Is attached to the bones near the articular surfaces. It is short, and strengthened by strong transverse fibres on tho exterior, more especially at the upper part. Within this capsule is sometimes found a small interarli- cular cartilage. The other two ligaments pass from the clavicle to the cora- h 2