Sect. I. 35 largest, and that of the second the longest; like the meta- carpus they have bases, the broadest and hindmost part, all which have Jlat articular surfaces to join them with the tar- sus ; and heads, or anterior rounded articular surfaces for the phalanges ; the middle part is the body, which is sharp above and broad beneath ; they have also articular surfaces on the sides of their bases ; the first has one on the outside for the second ; the second has two on the inside, a small one above for the inner cuneiform, and a large one below for the first me- tatarsal, also two on the outside, the upper one for the third metatarsal bone, and a small portion of the upper of these articulates with the outer cuneiform bone; the third has two on the inner side for the second, and one on the outer side for the fourth ; the fourth has one on each side for the third and the fifth ; and the fifth has one on the inside for the fourth ; the fifth metatarsal bone is also remarkable for a tuberosity on its outer part which projects very much, gives attach- ment to a strong ligament which supports the arch of the tarsus on the outside, and marks its junction with the os cuboides, which is immediately behind it. The Connection of the metatarsal bones has been given in their description. The muscles attached to them are fourteen ; viz, the M.~ interossei (seven) & transversalis pedis, common to all; to the first metatarsal are attached M. tibialis anticus & peroneus longus; to the second, M. adductor poll. ped.; and to the fifth, M. peroneus brevis, abductor &flexor brevis minimi digiti. The TOES. Phalanges Digitorum Pedis. Situation. Before the metatarsus. Description. They consist of fourteen bones, of which there are but two rows to the great toe, polle.v pedis, and three to the other toes ; their division is similar to that of the fingers, into base, body, and head, but they are much shorter and flatter. 1 he muscles attached to them are nineteen ; viz. above, M. extensor proprius pollicis & extensor longus & brevis digitorum pedis, interossei (seven); below M. flexor longus & brevis & abductor pollicis, flexor longus & brevis digitorum & lumbri- cales (four.) SESAMOID BONES. Os Sesamoidea. Of these there are two at the base of the first phalanx1 of the great toe, giving insertion to the M. flexor brevis & abductor pollicis ped. d 2