236 Sect IV. part of the os pubis, and presenting a sharp edge towards the femoral vein : it is called Gimbernat’s ligament, or the third insertion of the external oblique muscle. The dissection is to be prosecuted by examining the rela- tion and connection of these parts with those situated exter- nally . After removing the integuments, that which has been called the aponeurosis of the external oblique may be traced extending over the groin, and descending upon the thigh: it covers the inguinal glands, which are clustered together at this part, and portions of it are dipping in between them. The aponeurosis may now be dissected back to display the Fascia Lata, which will be seen attached to Poupart’s liga- ment, rendering its rounded edge indistinct. But the fascia lata may be said to be composed of two portions at the upper part:—an outer and more dense one attached to nearly the whole extent of Poupart’s ligament, which covers the muscles at the fore part of the thigh, and in a great measure the femoral vessels, but terminates upon them in a more or less distinct crescent-shaped edge (sometimes called the Falciform Process;)—and an inner, deeper seated and thinner portion attached to the pubes and its ligament, which covers the muscles at the inner part of the thigh, seems to pass behind the femoral vessels, and unites with the outer portion some little way below the crural arch. Through this opening of the fascia lata, thus formed by its two portions, a part of the sheath of the femoral vessels maybe perceived; andthe^enre saphcena major, which rises up from the inner part of the thigh, may be traced to its termination at the femoral vein. When the absorbent glands are removed which are seated about this part, the inner side of the femoral sheath will be found to have numerous perforations ; this Fascia Crybri- Fctrmis, as it is sometimes called, allows of the communication between the inguinal absorbent glands and those situated within the sheath, but renders the fascia forming the sheath weaker at this part. The fascia lata being removed, the crural sheath appears, which contains the femoral artery and vein separated from each other by a tendinous septum; and the absorbent vessels may be seen entering the inner and upper part of the sheath. The anterior crural nerve is situated upon the muscles on the iliac side of the sheath, but the trunk of this nerve does not enter the crural sheath. Practical Points.—The reduction of crural hernia—the adaptation of trusses—the operation for stran- gulated crural hernia.