Sect. I. 1$ of the acetabulum, is a groove, over which the tendon of the M. obturator externus plays : extending forwards and upwards is the leg, crus, obtuse within, where it gives attachment to the crus penis & M. erector penis; and sharp without, where it forms part of the foramen obturator, and about the middle of this, on its inner side, it terminates in the crus of the os pubis. 7. The Share-bone. Os Pubis. Situation. In the front of the pelvis and forming the inner and under part of the acetabulum. Description. Continuing upwards, from the crus of the ischium, is the leg, crus, of the Pubis, the outer edge of which forms part of the obturator foramen, and the inner rough to form the symphysis or junction of the two ossa innominata : at right angles with the crus and extending outwards is the angle, cmgulus, immediately before which is the spinous process, p. spinosus, to which Poupart’s ligament is attached; extending outwards is the body, corpus, smooth above, form- ing the flat surface over which the iliac vessels and the anterior crural nerve pass •, sharp below to form the upper part of the obturator foramen, and sharp behind to complete the linea iliopectinea : at the outer extremity, the body be- ■ comes thick and hollowed to form the fore and under part of the acetabulum. The articular cavity for the head of the thigh bone, acetabulum, is formed by the junction of the ilium, ischium, and pubes : it is of a deep cuplike shape, with its con- cavity facing outwards and a little downwards: its margin is not completely circular, but deficient at the under and fore part forming a notch, which space in the recent state is filled up with ligament; the upper, outer and under part of the acetabulum is smooth, but opposite the notch it is scooped out, forming a cavity to which the round ligament is attached, surrounded by a quantity of fat: the upper and outer part of the acetabulum, by which the weight of the body is transmitted to the head of the thigh bone, is the deepest, and the under and fore part the shallowest. The pi’oportions in which the ilium, ischium and pubis enter into the composition of the acetabulum are the upper and outer part not quite two-fifths of the whole cavity by the ilium, the under part rather more than two-fifths by the ischium, and the fore part one-fifth by the pubis. 1 he obturator hole, foramen obturator, is formed by the ischium and pubis, it is of an oval shape, its long axis up- wards, and has a sharp edge, to which a ligament is attached. The muscles attached to and covering the os innominatum,