Sect. IV. 243 num. It is placed before the lobulus Spigelii, which may be seen through it: and is composed of two layers of peritonaeum, closely applied to each other, and connected by a very fine cellular membrane. Between these layers, at the right ex- tremity, are situated the hepatic vessels and biliary ducts : and this is the part which is called the Capsule of Glisson. Behind Glisson’s capsule is a rounded opening called the Foramen of Winslow. To prevent the mistake, to which the equivocal import of the word, foramen, might lead, it may be well to notice, that it is a mere aperture of communication between the general cavity of the peritonaeum, and a lesser cavity, formed in part by the bag of the omentum. Great Omentum. Oment.gastro-colicum, mem- brana adiposa. Is a bag attached at the upper part anteriorly to the greater curvature of the stomach, and posteriorly to the transverse arch of the colon. If a blow-pipe be introduced into the foramen of Winslow, the bag of the omentum may be inflated, unless (which is not uncommonly the case) adhesions have been formed. From these attachments it extends down- wards, between the convolutions of the small intestines and the parietes of the abdomen, covering the former, more or less. It varies in size, in the adult often reaching into the pelvis. It is of a quadrilateral figure, and terminates below in a loose edge; to the right it is continued with the colic epiploon, to the left with the covering of the spleen and pan- creas. It is formed of two layers of peritonaeum ; those which have been described as forming the little omentum separate at the less curvature of the stomach, the one passing before that viscus, the other behind; and at the greater curvature of the stomach they again become applied to each other, descend before the small intestines, are reflected upwards to the arch of the colon, where they separate to enclose it, after which they pass together to the spine, forming the transverse mesocolon and the lower boundary of the posterior cavity of the peritonaeum. The two layers are connected by cellular membrane, which in the adult and in advanced age generally contains fat. In the young subject it is disposed in the course of the vessels, but afterwards becomes more uniformly diffused. 1 here is sometimes another fold of peritonaeum, distinct; which is called Colic Epiploon, Omentum colicum. It is placed on the right side of the angle of union of the right with the transverse mesocolon. It is formed of two layers, aiid is merely an appendage of the peritomeal coat of the colon. Spleen. The spleen is a spongy body of a pur- ple livid hue, and of an oval figure, situated deeply in the left r 2