170 Sect. III. The great nervous mass situated above the foramen magnum, and generally known as the MEDULLA OBLONGATA. Besides containing the corpora pyramidalia and olivaria, has also the origins of the fifth, sixth, and seventh pairs of nerves, and the commencement of the cerebellum and cerebrum. It is in close connection with the spinal marrow, and has like it the fissures, commissure, internal grey substance, and canals. On the fore part arc seen the anterior pyramids, corpora pyramidalia anteriora, narrow below’, and broad above, where they pass through the pons Varolii,^and separated from each other by th 3 anterior fissure of the spinal marrow : on their sides are seen the olives, corpora olivaria, of an olive-shape; further outwards the cords, corpora restiformia, from their resemblance to a cord, and on the posterior surface between the cords are seen the posterior pyramids, corpora pyramid- alia posteriora, which are found in the fourth ventricle, and separated by the calamus scriptorius or termination of the posterior fissure of the spinal marrow. THE BRAIN Is divided into twro principal parts 5 the anterior superior, composed of the two hemispheres, and called Cerebrum ; and the posterior inferior close to the medulla oblongata, from which the greater number of the cerebral nerves arise, called the Cerebellum on account of its smaller size. We begin with the CEREBELLUM. From the grey substance within the medulla oblongata, commence a number of nervous roots, which arc the primi- tive fibres of the cerebellum ; they collect together on each side, forming the corpus restiforme. Corpora Restiformia, Processus e> cerebello ad medullam oblongatam. Each corpus restiforme is similar in shape to a small cord ; it passes upwards, and in its course increases in size, having before it the facial, and behind it the auditory nerve and its grey substance or ganglion, wdiich must be gently scraped off with the handle of a scalpel. The fibres of the corpus restiforme being followed, a distinct bundle is seen entering into the hemisphere of the cerebellum, where it is surrounded by a layer of grey substance, which, having an irregular tooth-like form, has led to the designation,