21 Sect. I. ■wards, and is divided by a middle ridge, for the inner articular surface of the base of the os humeri, and bounded be- fore by a projecting lip called the coronoid process, p7'ocessus coronoides; on the outer side, between the olechranon and the coronoid process, is a concave articular surface for the head of the radius, the lesser sigmoid cavity, cavitas sigmoidea minor; below, and before the coronoid process, is another pro- cess called the tubercle, tuber ; the greater sigmoid cavity is bounded behind and above by the olechranon, jrrocessus olechranon, which forms the projecting part of the elbow, gives insertion to the M. triceps extensor cubiti behind, and to the M. anconeus on its outer edge ; it has a flat surface on the posterior part covered only by skin, which is strictly the space called the elbow, or ancon ; the body of the bone, corpus, is strongly marked by the attachment of muscles; it is rounded and smooth on the inner, and sharp on the outer side, for the attachment of the interosseous ligament; about a third down is the hole for the medullary artery ; the lower end of the bone is rounded, having a. rounded articular surface for the base of the radius, and an irregular one below for the interarticular cartilage ; on the inside it is lengthened to form the styloid process, processus styliformis. Connection. With the humerus above; with the radius on the outside ; and by the interarticular cartilage with the cuneiform bone below. The muscles attached to the ulna are fourteen ; viz. M. bra- chialis interims, triceps extensor cubiti & anconeus, pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, f. carpi ulnarfs, f. digitorum communis sublimis & profundus, pronator quadratus, exten- sor carpi ulnaris, e. ossis metacarpi pollicis, e. primiinternodii poll., e. secundi internodii poll. & indicator. THE SMALL BONE OF THE ARM. Radius. Situation. On the outside of the fore arm, attached above to the os humeri, on the inner side to the ulna, and below to the os scaphoides and lunare. Description. The radius is said to resemble the spoke of a wheel; it is divided into head,neck, body, base, two processes, and four articular surfaces ; the head or upper part, caput, is rounded, having a concave articular surface at the top to receive the convex articular surface of the outer condyle of the os hu- meri ; on the side of the inner and anterior half of the head is an articular surface, by which it joins with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna; immediately below this the bone is con- tracted to form its neck, cervix, bounded below on the fore and inner part by an obtuse process called the tubercle, tuber^into