254 Sect. IV. Gall-Bladder, Vesicula Fellis. It is a mem- branous bag of a pyriform shape; situated under the right lobe in a superficial cavity, as already noticed. Superiorly, it is connected to the substance of the liver ; below it presents a surface more considerable than the former, and covered by peritonaeum. This is contiguous to the pyloric extremity of the stomach, to the duodenum, and the right extremity of the arch of the colon ; all of which parts are tinged, in the dead body, of a yellow colour, from the transudation of the bile. It is divided into body, fundus, and cervix. In the erect posture, its fundus or base is situated anteriorly, interiorly, and to the right; its cervix, posteriorly, superiorly, and to the left. The base is covered more or less by peritonaeum ; it answers to a notch in the liver,, and is more or less visible ac- cording to its state of distension. The cervix is bent so as to form a convexity above and a concavity below, and termi- nates in the Ductus Cyst.icus. This is about the same length as the Hepatic Duct, with which it unites below, so as to form the Ductus Communis Choledochus. The gall- bladder is found, by dissection, to be composed of two coats :—1. An external, or peritonccal, which is partial, belonging only to the under surface and base, passing off from the circumference of the cavity in which the gall-bladder is placed, and covering rather more than half. Under this coat there is a quantity of dense cellular membrane, forming numerous dense filaments, which take the length of the bladder, and have by some anatomists been described as a muscular coat. 2. An internal, or mucous, of some thick- ness, and of a white colour, but after death becoming yellow from the transudation of the bile. It has a villous ap- pearance ; and is disposed in numerous rugae, which have a reticular distribution. It has numerous follicles for the dis- charge of a protecting and lubricating mucus. Ductus Communis Choledochus. By the union of the cystic and hepatic ducts at an acute angle, the ductus communis choledochus is formed, appearing, indeed, as a continuation of the latter. It passes before the vena povtee in Glisson’s capsule, gains the posterior part of the right ex- tremity of the pancreas, passes behind the second portion of the duodenum, here sometimes joining with the duct of the pancreas, but more commonly passing with it through the muscular coat. The two ducts then accompany each other obliquely between that and the villous coat of the duodenum ; and then terminate, by a common orifice, behind the second curve of the duodenum.