14 Sect. I. are the M. psoas magnus & parvus, iliacufc, levator ani, obtu- rator interims, pyriformis, coccygeus, obliquus externus & interims, transversalis, rectus &pyramidalis abdominis, quad- ratus lumborum, longissimus dorsi, sacro-lumbalis & latissi- mus dorsi, tensor vaginae femoris, sartorius, gluteus maximus, medius & minimus, rectus femoris, gemini, quadratus femo- ris, biceps flexor cruris, semitendinosus & semimembranosus, transversus perinaei, & transversus perinaei alter, erector penis vel clitoridis, triceps adductor femoris, gracilis, pectineus & obturator externus. The Rump-bone. Os Sacrum. Situation. In the back of the pelvis, supported by the ossa innominata on the sides, and receiving the Vertebral Column above. Description. The Sacrum is of a triangular shape, its base facing upwards and forwards, its apex which is truncated also facing forwards : it is concave before from above down- wards, and irregularly convex behind in the same direction : in the young subject it consists of five pieces, which from their general resemblance to the vertebrae, have been called the false vertebrae, but in the adult they are anchylosed into a single piece : in the anterior concave surface are four trans- verse lines marking the original separation into the five bodies, andon each sideof thesearethe four anterior sacral holes, fora- mina sacralia cinteriora, bounded by the transverse processes, p. transversi; the upper transverse processes very broad, and having a notch between them and the articular surface on the base, to form part of the holes for the last pair of lum- bar nerves : on the base or upper part, an oval articular sur- face, its long axis from side to side, and facing upwards and forwards for the body of the last lumbar vertebra : the apex or lowest part having an oval articular surface for the os coccy- gis, and a notch on each side of it for the last pair of sacral nerves: on the posterior surface in the middle are four pro- cesses answering to the spinous processes of the vertebrae, which are generally bifid, and occasionally so completely as to leave the spinal canal open, and this is generally the case with the two lowest: on either side of these are four holes, foramina sacralia posterior a, for the passage of small branches of nerves and vessels : the sides of the sacrum are of an irre- gular triangular shape with the base above, and having an articular surface for the os innominatum. In consequence of the base of the sacrum facing forwards and upwards, the anterior margin projects considerably, and this is called the promontory of the sacrum.