229 Sect. IV. nection of the tendon of the obliquus externus with the tendi- nous intersections of the rectus muscle beneath; there are gene- rally three, one opposite to the cartilage of the seventh rib, one opposite to the umbilicus, the third in the middle between these; and there is commonly a half line below the umbi- licus. There are also several openings in the tendon of the obli- quus externus. One of these is the Navel, or Umbilicus, situated iu the middle of the linea alba, originally the passage for the umbilical cord, The second is the External Abdomi- nal Ring, Annulus Abdominalis Externus, or the passage for the spermatic cord in the male, and for the round ligament in the female, which is found on each side extending obliquely upwards and outwards above the spinous process of the os pubis. This latter is not annular in its figure, as its name might imply, but is formed by the separation of the tendi- nous fibres of the external oblique muscle. The fibres -which form the inner margin or column of the ring, generally de- cussate with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side, and are fixed to the opposite os pubis near the symphysis : those which constitute the outer margin or column form a rounded cord, and are attached to the spinous process of the os pubis ; the columns above the cord are connected by ten- dinous fibres, which run transversely. The boundaries of the abdominal ring are not distinctly seen, till a quantity of cel- lular substance has been removed, which surrounds the cord or round ligament, and assists in filling up the aperture. Besides these openings there are frequently separations of the tendinous fibres at other parts, and small apertures for the passage of blood-vessels and nerves. 2. M. Obliquijs Internus Abdominis, ascendens. Situation. Forms the second layer of abdominal muscles. In order to display it, it is necessary to detach the external oblique muscle from the ribs, and from the spine of the ilium, and to reflect it forwards. Origin. It is united behind with the broad tendon of the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior, which arises from the spinous processes of the sacrum and of the lumbar vertebra?, and by which therefore it is connected to these parts. It is usually said to arise from the sacrum, and from the spinous processes of the three lowest lumbar vertebrae. It is connected at the back part of the abdomen with the ten- don of the transverse muscle. It arises also from the whole length of the spine of the ilium, and from the outer half of Poupart’s ligament internally. From these oi’igins the fibres