234 Sect. IV. attached to Poupart’s ligament: these together form the Fascia Transversalis. In tracing the spermatic cord towards the abdomen, it seems to disappear about midway between the spinous process of the pubes and the ilium; by insi- nuating a blunt instrument along the cord, and detaching the cellular membrane from around it, it will be found to pass through an opening in the fascia above described, which has been called the Internal Abdominal Ring. This opening is lined posteriorly by the peritonamm, and it is here that the spermatic cord is formed, the vas deferens passing down into the pelvis, whilst the spermatic vessels and nerves are derived from above. The relation then of the internal abdominal ring to the external ring, is, that whilst the latter is situated at the spinous process of the os pubis, the former is placed midway between the spinous process of the bone and the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, at the distance of an inch and a half from it, and above a line which is drawn from the top of the external opening horizontally outwards. The space between the two openings is called the Inguinal Canal. Consequently the direction of the spermatic cord within the canal will be inwards, downwards, and somewhat forwards ; in its course passing under the edge of the internal oblique and of the transversalis muscle, deriving from these its muscular covering, the cremaster, and receiving after it has passed the external opening, a further covering from the aponeurosis of the external oblique. The epigastric artery, in taking its course, from its origin at the external iliac, inwards and upwards to the rectus, is situated a little to the inner side of the internal ring, and is placed behind, and to the inner side of the cord, crossing it at a right angle. Of the Parts of Inguinal Hernia in the Female. In the female the round ligament occupies the place of the spermatic cord of the male in the inguinal canal. From being smaller the parts through which it passes are more contracted, but are better seen and more easily developed than in the male. Practical Points.—The reduction of inguinal hernia—the adaptation of trusses—the operation for strangu- lated inguinal hernia. § 3. OF THE PARTS OF CRURAL HERNIA. The paris concerned in crural hernia are chiefly those which are connected with the passage of the vessels at the groin, and they must be examined previous to the dissection of the muscles of the thigh.