228 Sect. IV. Ori gin. By eight heads from the eight inferior ribs, of which the lower are received between the fleshy digitations of the serratus magnus. It is connected above to the pectoralis major, adheres to the intercostales, and is covered below and behind by the latissimus dorsi, where it extends between the last rib and the spine of the ilium. From these attachments the fibres of the muscle run obliquely downwards and for- wards, and terminate in a thin broad tendon, the fibres of which are continued in the same direction. Insertion. By joining with its fellow at the linea alba, which extends from the cavtilago ensiformis to the os pubis ; into the os pubis on the same side on which it arises, and into the opposite os pubis ; and into the fore part of the spine of the ilium. The lower part of the tendon unconnected, ex- tends between the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium, and the projecting part of the os pubis, near to the symphysis, forming a strong rounded margin, which does not become distinct until the fascia lata of the thigh, which is connected with it, has been detached; this has been called Poupart’s or Fallopius’s ligament, or the Crural Arch. It has also another attachment to the os pubis, which extends from the inner and back part of Poupart’s ligament, called Gimbernat’s ligament, but which cannot be readily seen in this stage of the dissection. Use. To support the abdominal viscera; to assist in the evacuation of the feces and urine, and in the exclusion of the foetus, and also in vomiting; to draw down the ribs in exspi- ration, and to bend the body forwards : these are the effects produced when both muscles act, but if either act alone, the body is swayed obliquely to that side. When the external oblique muscle has been completely dissected, it will be seen that it is fleshy only at the upper part and sides, and that it is tendinous at the lower and ante- rior part. On the tendinous portion are presented several distinct lines: these are,—the Linea alba, or White Line, already mentioned, which extends from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes, and is formed by the intermixture of the tendons of the oblique and transverse muscles : the Linea semilunaris-y or Semilunar Line, so called from its curved direction, which is situated on the outside of the rectus muscle, and is formed by the connection of the tendon of the external oblique at that part with the tendons of the internal oblique and trans- verse muscles : and the Transverse Lines, or Liuece traus- versales, so called from their passing transversely between the linea alba and semilunaris; these are produced by the con-