Sect. IT. 77 root of the coracoid process, and is sometimes connected with the capsule of the shoulder-joint: the smaller is placed more anteriorly between the capsular ligament and tendon of the muscle, but is not always found. § 3. APONEUROSIS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. It is not necessary to dissect this tendinous expansion throughout its extent, but its different parts may be attended to during the dissection of the regions to which it forms a covering. The muscles of the upper extremity are covered by a ten- dinous expansion, or aponeurosis, fascia brachialis. It may be traced in muscular subjects from the deltoid muscle, ex- tending over the exterior of the muscles of the upper arm j but it is stronger on the posterior than on the anterior part. At the lower part a process extends inwards from it on each side, which is connected „ to the ridges and condyles of the os humeri, called the inner and outer intermuscular ligaments, which, being situated between the flexors and extensors, increase the surface of their attachment. At the bend of the elbow the fascia brachialis is strength- ened by cross fibres, and receives additions from the tendons of the triceps and biceps. It extends over the fore arm, and forms a thicker and stronger covering to the muscles on it than on those of the upper arm, giving off partitions which extend between the muscles, and are attached to the radius and ulna. Towards the lower extremity of the fore arm, and on the fore part, it becomes gradually thinner; but on the posterior part of the fore arm and carpus, it is thickened and strengthened by transverse fibres, which form here the posterior trans- verse ligament of the wrist, ligamentum carpi dorsale annulare posterius. This ligament is attached to the radius, ulna, os pisiforme, and metacarpal bone of the little finger, and binds down the tendons of the extensor muscles. § 4. ON THE ARM. a. Anterior Brachial, containing three 1. M. Coraco-brachialis. Situation. On the inner side, and perforated by the inus culo-cutaneous nerve : displayed by turning aside the M. pectoralis major & deltoides. Origin. Tendinous from the fore part of the coracoid pro- cess of the scapula, in common with the short head of the