41G Sect. VI. an under surface, and two sides or edges. The upper surface, or dorsum, is divided into two equal halves, by a linea medi- ana, or middle groove, called sometimes the raphe, running longitudinally. The inferior surface is, anteriorly, smooth from its covering, which is a continuation from the membrane of the mouth. It is divided by a longitudinal depression, which separates the projection of the muscles ; its posterior half is connected to the parts below, by the sublingual liga- ment, or fraenum linguae, which is a triangular fold of the lining membrane. The sides of the tongue are thicker pos- teriorly than anteriorly; they are round and smooth ; and are fixed to the lower jaw, the styloid processes, and the parts adjacent, by membranous ligaments. The apex, or tip, is movable, and more or less rounded. The base, or posterior part of the tongue, is connected to the os hyoides, and by the medium of this to the adjacent bones and muscles, as also to the epiglottis and the anterior pillars of the fauces. The tongue is chiefly composed of muscular fibres, which are in part derived from the muscles which serve for its motions. These are the M. linguales, stylo-glossi, genio- glossi, and hyo-glossi. The muscular fibres of the substance of the tongue form by their interlacement a network so intricate as to preclude the possibility of unravelling its fibres. These fibres are united by a very fine and close cellular texture, in which some fat is found. The tongue is covered by a membrane, which is continuous with that of the mouth, and is similar to the common integu- ments. The cutis vera is plentifully supplied with nerves, and covered with small projecting bodies, called the papillae, dispersed over the upper surface of the tongue. They are divided into three kinds:—the capitatae, lenticulares, and conicae. The P. capitatae (maximae, lenticulares, vallatfe) are the largest; and, as their name implies, have a rounded head, with a short stem. They are placed at the base of the tongue, in superficial fossulse, and the whole are arranged in such a way as to form an angle, with its point backwards. Their number and size vary. Their head has a cup-shaped depres- sion. They are of a firm consistence, and seem formed of the ramifications of blood-vessels and nerves, united by cel- lular texture. The P. lenticulares (semi-lenticulares, mediae, fungifonnes) are smaller than the former, and are scattered over the whole surface of the tongue, at some distance from each other. The P. conicce (minimae, villosse) are the smallest and most numerous. They occupy almost the whole upper surface of