Sect. I. 51 4. Foramina ovalia, for the inferior maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve. 5. Foramina spinosa, for the middle artery of the dura mater. 6. Foramina pterygoidea, at the roots of the pterygoid processes for the passage of the pterygoid nerve. 7- The openings of the sphenoidal sinuses on either side of the processus azygos. The imperfect are, 1. Foramina carotica, in part formed by the temporal, and part by the sphenoid bone for the carotid artery. 2. Foramina lacera basis crcinii anteriora, with the tem- poral bone, filled up naturally by ligament. 3. Foramina spheno palatina, formed by the sphenoid and palate bones for the passage of the spheno palatine nerve into the nose. 4. Foramina lacera orbit aria inferiora, formed by the sphenoid, palate, and superior maxillary bones. Beside the foramina, the sphenoid bone forms with the os palati the ccinalis pterygo palatinus. Junctions. The os sphenoides is joined by its ethmoidal spine and process to the nasal plate of the os ethmoides ; by its transverso spinous process, and the inner upper edges of its orbitar plates to the orbitar plates and temporal edges of the os frontis ; and at the upper and back part of its tem- poral plates with the sphenoidal angles of the ossa parietalia: by the posterior edges of the same plates and its spinous process, it joins with the squamous portions of the ossa temporam; from its spinous processes to the roots of the pterygoid processes it touches slightly the inferior angles of the petrous portions of the ossa temporum, and by its basilar process with the sphenoidal process of the os occi- pitis : by the anterior edges of its orbitar plates it joins with the ossa malarum; by the anterior surfaces of its ptery- goid plates with the ossa palati; and by the processus azygos to the vomer. The muscles atttached to the os sphenoides are thirteen pairs; viz. the M. levator palpebne superioris, levator, depressor, abductor, adductor & obliquus superior oculi, temporalis, pterygoideus externus & interims, buccinator, externus mallei, constrictor pharyngis superior, tensor palati. d he os ethmoides and os sphenoides, with the os frontis, ossa parietalia, os o.'xipitis, & ossa temporum, complete the cranium,and form by their union the large cavity in which the brain and its membranes are placed, and this is called the BRAIN CASK. e 2