310 Sect. V. branches to the muscles of the thumb, it sends a branch along its outer side, occasionally a branch along its inner side, and furnishes the radial branch of the fore linger. In some cases, the superficial branch arises high up and takes the course of the radial artery, but more superficially, so that its pulsation might be mistaken for that of the radial artery. 4. small branches. Distributed to the ligaments and other parts about the wrist. 5. dorsal branches. Variable in size and number to the back part of the carpus, metacarpus, to the interossei muscles, and to the back part of the thumb and fore finger. In the palm of the hand the radial artery passes inwards, is called the deep palmar branch, and forms the deep-seated palmar arch, which joins with the deep branch of the ulnar artery. It furnishes also the 6. LARGE ARTERY OF THE THUMB. A magllU pollicis. This is usually given off on the metacarpal bone of the fore finger, takes its course on the inner side of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and either divides into two branches, one of which passes along the outer and the other along the inner side of the thumb to its extremity, or furnishes only one of these branches, the other being supplied either from the superficial or deep palmar arch. 7- RADIAL BRANCH OF THE FORE FINGER. A. TadUtlis indicis. Passes along the outer side of the fore finger to its extremity. Ulnar Artery. A. Ulnaris. Is usually a more considerable artery than the radial, and is deeper seated in its course. As it descends it bends inwards and takes its course in the direction of the ulna, is then con- tinued into the palm of the hand, and terminates by forming the superficial palmar arch. Anteriorly :—It is at first covered by the pronator teres, palmaris longus, flexor carpi radialis, and flexor sublimis, but lower is more superficial, being separated only from the aponeurosis and skin by the projection of the flex'or sublimis and flexor carpiulnaris at the sides. Posteriorly:—It is placed on the flexor digitorum profundus. On the inner side:—It has the flexor carpi ulnaris, and is accompanied by the ulnar nerve. On the outer side:—It has the flexor sublimis. At