190 Sect. III. situated about the passage of the fauces, or in the guttural region, before the examination of which it will he necessary to consider the principal parts with which they are connected. Parts at the passage of the Fauces. When the mouth is opened, a membranous expansion is seen at its back part, called the velum pendulum palati, which extends from right to left, in the form of an arch. From its middle the uvula, or pap of the throat, depends towards the root of the tongue. On each side from the root of the uvula and velum two arches or columns, dis- tinguished by the names of anterior and posterior, are sent down, which diverge and terminate, the first at the root of the tongue, and the second on the side of the pharynx. Between the anterior and posterior arches on each side, are situated the tonsils, or amygdalae. The passage between the arches is called the isthmus faucium. a. Guttural Region, containing the five muscles situated about the passage of the fauces, of which four pairs and the single one form the velum palati, one pair forms the anterior, and another the posterior pillar of the arch of the fauces. 1. M. Circumflexus Palati. Tensor palati. Situation. Deep seated between the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the back of the palate. .Saw through the jaw-bone, and remove it in order to see this and the next muscle more distinctly. Origin. From the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and from the bony and cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube. It runs down along the pterygoideus interims, forms a slender round tendon, which passes over the hook of the internal plate of the pterygoid process, and then spreads within the velum. Insertion. Into the velum pendulum palati, and into the semilunar edge of the os palati, extending as far as the palatine suture. Use. To stretch the velum and draw it downwards. 2. M. Levator Palati. Situation. Behind the last muscle, and of larger size. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy from the point of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and from the membranous por- tion of the Eustachian tube. Insertion. Into the velum pendulum palati as far as the root of the uvula, where it joins with its fellow.