30 Shot, I. Connection. With the condyles of the os femoris behind. The muscles attached to the patella are four; viz. to the basis, M. rectus & crureus, and to the sides, M. vasti. THE SHIN BONE. Tibia. Situation. On the inside of the leg. Ucscription. The tibia is said to resemble an ancient flute in shape : it consists of a head or upper part, body or middle, base or lower part, one process and five articular surfaces ; the head, caput, is much expanded, and is of an oval form, with its long axis from side to side; on the top it has two semicircular articular surfaces for the condyles of the os femoris, of which the inner is the larger; these are slightly concave, and have their diameters towards each other, separated by a middle ridge which has a pit before and behind it, to which the cruceal ligaments are attached; on the posterior under and inner part of the head is a small flat articular surface for the head of the fibula ; about an inch below the head on the fore part is the tubercle, tuber, which gives attachment to the ligaments of the patella and some muscles ; the body, corpus, is of a prismatic form, the base of which is behind and the apex before, which latter presents a sharp ridge extending down to the inside of the base, and called spina, spine or shin : the inside of the body is very smooth and covered only by skin, the outside slightly hollowed for the lodgement of muscles, and the posterior irregularly flat and marked by an oblique line, tinea poplitea, which extends from the articular surface for the fibula across to the inner edge of the bone, about a third downwards, and marks the attachment of the M. popliteus and gastrocnemius internus. The lower part of the bone is expanded to form the base, basis, which has an articular surface upon it, con- cave from before to behind for the top of the astragalus; on the inside the base is lengthened by a strong process, the inner ankle, malleolus internus, which is marked on the under back part by a slight groove for the passage of the tendon of the M. tibialis posticus, and has a flat articular sur- face on the outside for the inside of the astragalus; on the outside of the base is an irregular articular surface for the fibula. The hole for the medullary artery in the middle and back part. Connexion. Above with the condyles of the os femoris, below and to the inner side with the astragalus, and on the outside above and below to the fibula. The muscles attached to this bone are ten; viz. below the tubercle, M. sartorius, gracilis, semitendinosus; to the back of