Sect. II. 119 four smaller toes, to which they are attached. These tendons should be traced to their termination. Use. To extend all the joints of the four smaller toes, and to bend the foot upon the leg: the slip called Peroneus tertius assists in turning the foot outwards. A bursa is situated between the tendon of this muscle and the capsule of the ankle joint. 3. M. Extensor Longus PropriGs Pollicjs. Situation. Between the two former muscles, at the lower part of the leg. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy from the inner part of the fibula, beginning some way below the head, and continued to near its extremity, and from the interosseous ligament. Its fibres pass obliquely to a tendon which runs along its an- terior edge, and is continued in a separate passage behind the transverse ligament of the ankle, and runs on the inner side of the foot. Insertion. Into the second bone of the great toe. Use. To extend the great toe, and to assist in flexing the foot upon the leg. The tendon of this muscle is included on the dorsum of the foot in a sheath of synovial membrane. b. Superficial Posterior Tibial, containing three muscles. 1. Gastrocnemius Externus. Gemellus. Situation. On the back of the leg; it is a muscle of con- siderable size and, strength, being that by which the calf of the leg is principally formed. Origin. By two distinct tendinous heads from the os femoris immediately above the upper and back part of the condyles of that bone. The two heads are narrow above, but become broader and thicker as they descend and unite, a little below the knee joint in a middle tendon. The muscle ter- minates in a thin, broad tendon, which joins below with the tendon of the next muscle. Insertion. With the gastrocnemius internus. Use. To extend the foot on the leg. 2. M. Gastrocnemius Internus. Soleus. Situation. Under the former: in order to display it, the gastrocnemius externus must be raised from its , origin, and dissected downwards, when the plantaris and popliteus will also be exposed. Origin. From the posterior surface of the tibia, its attach-