Sect. III. 185 the points of attachment to the base of the tongue and to the principal muscles connected with that organ. It is of a horse- shoe shape, and is divided into a base or broad part, placed in front, and into two cornua, which extend backwards on each side. Two other smaller processes, called appendices, are placed at the upper part of the bone where the cornua are joined with the base. Larynx. Is situated beneath the os hyoides. It is com- posed of five elastic cartilages, connected by ligament and membrane, viz. Thyroid Cartilage. The largest of these, which forms the upper and fore part. It is formed of two lateral portions, or alee, united in front, where they form a projection in the male, distinct in the living subject, called the pomum Adami. From the upper and posterior angle of each ala a process extends upwards, called the superior cornu. From the lower and posterior angle a similar, but shorter pro- cess reaches downwards, named the inferior cornu. Cricoid, or Annular Cartilage. Is placed be- low the thyroid. It forms the under and back part of the larynx. It is narrow in front, immediately below the thyroid, but increases in breadth at the sides and back part. Arytjenoid Cartilages, two in number, of small size, and of a pyramidal shape; they are situated at the upper and back of the cricoid cartilage. Epiglottis is of a leaf-like shape, is placed just below the root of the tongue, and covers the upper opening into the larynx. Trachea, or Air-Tube. Is continued from the cricoid cartilage down the fore part of the neck into the chest. It is rounded in front and flattened behind, and is composed principally of cartilage and membrane. Thyroid Gland. Is situated at the under and lateral part of the larynx, and extends upon the trachsea. It is formed of two considerable lobes, of a reddish colour, con- nected by an intermediate portion, which lies across the fore and upper part of the traclnea. Behind the nose and mouth is the Pharynx, a membranous bag, which contracts below, and terminates opposite to the cricoid cartilage in the oesophagus. (Esophagus. This is a cylindrical muscular tube, through which the food descends into the stomach. It passes