380 Sect. V. 1. Anterior. Is distributed to the adductor longus It detaches twigs, and is distributed to the large gluteal muscle. 6. Common Pudic. N. pudendns communis. Formed by fasciculi from the fourth and fifth lumbar, and from the three uppermost sacral nerves ; it is of considerable size. It passes out of the pelvis through the under part of the notch of the ilium, then is continued into the pelvis again, between the two sacro-sciatic ligaments, and divides into a superior and inferior branch. 1. Superior. (N. pudendus superior.) Takes its course along the ramus of the ischium and that of the os pubis, giving off twigs to the obturator interims muscle, is then con- tinued forwards under the symphysis pubis, in the male as the dorsal nerve of the penis, (N. dorsalis penis,) in the female as the nerve of the clitoris, (N. clitovideus,) and in both dis- tributes twigs upon the dorsum, and to the skin of the pubes and adjacent parts, and terminates in the glans. 2. Inferior. (N. pudendus inferior, haemorrhoi- deus.) Accompanies the superior for a short way, ascends then between the accelerator urinae and erector penis, and is distributed to the skin and muscles of the perineum, to the extremity of the rectum, to the skin of the scrotum, and to the urethra, and is connected by various twigs with the other branches supplying the groin, the rectum, and parts of gene- ration. 7. Branches from the Third, Fourth, and Fifth Sacrae. Arise from these nerves separately are dis- tributed to the rectum, to the sphincter and levator ani mus- cles ; to the bladder, uterus, and vagina, in the female; and to the bladder, prostate gland, and vesicuhe seminales, in the male ; and assist in forming the Hypogastric Plexus, see page 397. 8. Obturator. JV. ohturatorius. Is derived from the anterior fasciculi of the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves ; passes downward and forward from behind the psoas muscle, takes its course in the direction of the linea ilio-pec- tinea, accompanied by the vessels of the same name, and is continued through the aperture in the ligament which fills up the obturator foramen. It then divides into an anterior and posterior branch.