201 Sect, III. more slender towards the apex; they project more or less from the sides, some remaining attached only at their extre- mities. Amongst them are three bundles, occasionally more, which arc larger than the rest, and not always arising from the same part, these ascend perpendicularly, and terminate in a rounded extremity; from them arise tendinous cords, chor- dae tendinece, which diverge, and are attached to a membranous fold, from the margin of the auricular opening, called'the tendinous curtain, cortina tendineci. There are two openings from the ventricle, that of commu- nication with the auricle superiorly, and to the right; and that of the pulmonary artery superiorly, and to the left. The auricular OPENING is the larger, and occupies nearly the whole of the base of the ventricle : its boundary is marked by •a white line, which has been called the tendinous zone, zona tendinea, but which appears to be nothing more than con- densed cellular membrane. From the margin of this opening is extended a loose membranous fold, called the cortina ten- dinea, the edge of which has three points, or projections : it is fixed, as has been before observed, by means of the chordae tendinece to the carnece columncc, and forms in this manner the tricuspid valve, valvula tricuspis. The opening of the pulmonary artery is placed obliquely. Towards it the bundles of fleshy fibres become larger, thicker, and less nume- rous. At the beginning of the artery are three valves, called the sigmoid, or semilunar, valvulce sernilunares, two on the fore and one on the back part of the artery. Each of them forms a sack, which is attached by its convex edge to the sides of the artery, whilst the other is loose and projecting. The unattached edge of each valve is somewhat thicker and stronger than the other parts, and has in its middle a small body, or thickening, called corpuscitlum sesamoideum Arantii. At the part where the pulmonary artery divides, a liga- mentous rounded cord of some size arises from it, and passes to the concave part of the curvature of' the aorta, to the side of which it is attached. It is the remains of the canalis arte- riosus, a vessel which, in the foetus, forms a communication between the pulmonary artery and the aorta. Left Auricle. It receives from each side the pulmonary veins, and it terminates to the left, and somewhat anteriorly, in a projecting appendix, which is all that can be seen of the left auricle in the natural situation of the heart. If the heart be raised and turned to the right, the posterior surface will be seen, which is covered by the pericardium. The form of the whole is irregular, and its extent cannot be