100 Sect. II cold process; they arc intimately connected with each other, and are only distinguished by the different direction of their fibres, viz. 2. Internal Coraco Clavicular, or Conoid Ligament, Ligamentum conoideum, which passes from the root of the coracoid process, and is fixed to the tubercle, on the posterior edge of the clavicle. 3. External. Coraco Clavicular, or Trape- zoid Ligament, JLigamentum trapezoideum, which is situated exterior to the former. It extends from about the middle of the convexity of the coracoid process, passes more trans- versely, and is attached farther out to the under surface of the scapular extremity of the clavicle. c. Proper Ligaments of the Scapula. Of these there are five, viz. :— 1. Anterior, or Triangular Ligament. Liga- mention anterius triquetrum, coraco-acromiale. Is broad, flattened, and of a triangular figure. Its broad extremity is attached to the convexity of the coracoid process ; it becomes gradually narrower, and is fixed to the posterior edge of the acromion. It is sometimes formed by two separate bundles united by a membranous substance. From its edge a layer of dense cellular membrane extends, under the deltoid muscle, and projects over the shoulder joint. It thus assists in pre- venting a displacement of the os humeri upwards. 2. Posterior Ligament. Ligamentum scapulce proprium pus terms, minus. Is stretched across the semi- lunar notch, from the superior costa to the root of the cora- coid process of the scapula, and forms that depression into a passage for the superior dorsal vessels and nerve of the scapula. 3. Acromio Glenoid Ligament. Is a band extending from the root of the acromion to the edge of the glenoid cavity. 4. Coraco Glenoid. Originates from the root of the coracoid process, and attached to the edge of the gle- noid cavity. 5. Glenoid Ligament. Ligamentum glcnoi- deum. Is a projecting ring of ligamento-cartilaginous sub- stance, which is attached to the circumference of the glenoid cavity, and thereby renders it deeper.