INTRODUCTION. xiii lecturer enables the student to pursue liis anatomical labours intelligently. But it must be recollected that lectures, however necessary, are only calculated to give general ideas; -whereas it is required of the practitioner, that his knowledge should be particular and even minute. It is not sufficient that he is merely ac- quainted with the presence of certain parts, but he must know precisely their situation and extent. The surgeon’s knife may give health or death within the space of one hair’s breadth. This kind of knowledge is to be acquired by actual dissection alone. Idleness may persuade, and the natural aver- sion to the sight and touch of the dead, may enforce an opinion, that anatomy is to be gained at the cheap rate of turning over the unsoiling pages of a quarto, or learning by rote the names of muscles, arteries, or nerves, arranged in the convenient form of tables. The deception is not a little strengthened by the fallacious clearness which the art of the draughtsman and engraver, naturally interested in the beauty of the works, has given to those parts which the practical anatomist, more espe- cially if a beginner, is at pains to discover, and often in vain labours to show distinctly, much less to exhibit with elegance. These means indeed may give an outline of the systems of parts, and are as such valuable ; but practical anatomy aims at much more. Its leading object is to gain a thorough ac- quaintance with Relative Position,—a knowledge, by means of which the mutual relation of all parts of the body may, as occasion shall need, be represented to the mind. It can only be acquired by separating the coverings of important parts, by observing the manner in which they lie embedded in the surrounding softer parts, and the prominent points which mark their situation, whether seen in the living state, or viewed by dissection. The parts must be seen as con- nected with one another; not as at a lectflre, where the body is generally prepared to show some single part, while every other which might obscure it is removed, in order to render it distinct in a large anatomical theatre.