46 Sect. I. styloid processes for the passage of the facial nerve from the stylo mastoid canal. 4. Foramen mastoideum, generally behind and above the mastoid process, but sometimes found between the temporal and occipital bones, and at other times entirely in the latter bone, though but rarely; it transmits a vein from the integu- ments of the skull to the lateral sinus. 5. The opening of the aquaeductus cochleae. 6. Ditto carotid canal. 7- Ditto eustachian-tube. 8. Foramen umominatum, in the anterior face of the pars petrosa, for the passage of the nervus innominatus to the beginning of the stylo mastoid canal, to join with the facial nerve. 9. Foramen auditivum internum, by which the facial and auditory nerves enter the meatus auditorius internus. 10. The ^opening of the aquaeductus vestibuli. The two last holes in the posterior face of the pars petrosa. The im- perfect foramina, are, 1. Foramen lacerum basis cranii anlerins, filled in the recent state by ligament, forming part of the carotid canal. 2. Foramen caroticum for the passage of the internal carotid artery into the skull. 3. Foramen lacerum basis cranii posterins for the passage of the glossopharyngeal, pneumo-gastrie, and accessory nerves, and the junction of the jugular vein with the lateral sinus. Junctions. The os temporis is joined by its malar process to the zygomatic process of the os malae ; by the in- ferior edge of the pars squamosa to the spinous process .of the os sphenoides; by the superior edge of the same part to the temporo sphenoidal edge of the os parietale, by the supe- rior edge of the pars rnamillaris to the temporal angle of that bone ; by the inferior edge of the pars rnamillaris, and by the posterior inferior angle of the pars petrosa to the tem- poral and basilar edges of the os occipitis; and by the inner point of the pars petrosa to the root of the posterior clinoid process of the os sphenoides. The muscles attached to the os temporis are seventeen; viz. M. temporalis, massetcr, rctrahentes aurem (two), occipito frontalis, sterno mastoideus, trachelo mastoideus, splenius, digasfricus, stylo hyoideus, stylo glossus, stylo pharyngeus, & constrictor pharyngis superior; and the muscles moving the small bones of the ear, M. tensor tympani, laxator tym- panic externus mallei, and stapedius. The os temporis contains, besides the parts which have