168 Sect. III. anterior Assure is interrupted for about five lines. The decus- sation takes place by means of from three to five fasciculi, into which the anterior and posterior portions separate; whilst the lateral portions pass directly upwards. Nerves of the Spinal Marrow. There arc thirty-one pair, including the accessory and the sub-occipital nerves, which arise from the spinal marrow. They are divided into cervical, dorsal, lumbar, and sacral. They arise by a double root, an anterior and a posterior, from the corresponding surfaces of the medulla ; the posterior roots are the larger, they arise nearer the middle, and are composed of fewer not so distinctly fibrous filaments as the anterior, 'idie two sets of roots are separated by the ligamentum denti- culatum ; but unite at the part where the nerves pass through the dura mater. Before this, their passage through the dura mater, filaments of communication may be seen between several of the pairs. Shortly after, the posterior root be- comes enlarged in the form of a ganglion, with which the anterior does not communicate. SUMMARY ACCOUNT OF THE DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL MARROW AND BRAIN, According to Drs. Gall and SpUrzhcim. The nervous system is composed of.a plurality of parts, all of which, however, are in communication with each other; thus we have the nervous systems of the belly and chest, that of the spinal marrow, and that of the brain. The Spinal Marrow and Brain only, however, it is here intended to notice. The nervous mass, usually described as the MEDULLA SPINALIS, Consists of two parts, the grey and gelatinous substance, which is found in the interior of its whole length, and the ’nervous fibres from which the white substance of the nervous system of the vertebral column is formed, and which are situ- ated on the exterior. When the dura mater and tunica arach- noid es have been cut through, and the spinal marrow re- moved from its canal, if it be held up, numerous gaugliform enlargements will be seen on each side, giving to it an undu- lated appearance at the points whence the nerves seem to arise.