Sect. VI. 405 edges of the eyelids are placed several rows of stiff hairs, called the Eyelashes. Cilice. Those of the upper eyelid are bent upwards, and are longer than those of the under eye- lid, which are bent in the opposite direction : in both they are wanting near the inner angle. Tunica Conjunctiva, or Adnata. Is a thin membrane, which, as its name implies, connects the globe with the eyelids. It may be said to begin at the edge of the upper eyelid, and to line it internally: it is then reflected upon the globe, covers its anterior surface, and passes upon the under eyelid, terminating at its edge. Just behind the caruncula lachrymalis, in quitting the globe at the inner can- thus, it forms a fold, sometimes scarcely marked, called the valvula semilunaris. This membrane has apparently a similar texture with that of the mucous membranes; but it is so thin as to show the parts underneath. It is connected by rather a loose cellular texture to the sclerotica; but on the transparent cornea ad- heres so firmly, that it cannot be separated by the scalpel. It differs further, where it covers the transparent cornea, in be- ing thinner, more transparent, more polished, and less vascular. Between the tunica conjunctiva which lines the eyelids, and the tarsi, are placed a row of sebaceous follicles, called the glan- dules tarsi, or Meibornii. They appear like a series of parallel white lines, running in a serpentine direction, and some joined together. From the openings of these, punctci ciliaria, a seba- ceous matter may be expressed, which is the secretion for the lubrication of the eyelids. Caruncula Lachrymalis. At the inner angle of the eye, between it and the globe, is situated the caruncula lachrymalis. It is of a conical figure, and of a red colour, from the conjunctiva being reflected over it. It consists of a clus- ter of small mucous glands, with minute hairs about their ori- fices. The valvula semilunaris is a doubling of the conjunc- tive coat, between the caruncula and ball of the eye. In qua- drupeds, but still more remarkably in birds, it is of large size, called the membrana nictitans, and by means of a muscular apparatus maybe drawn before the eye for its protection. All the parts above-mentioned may be seen without dissec- tion, but that is not the case with those which follow : LachrymalGland, GlandulciLachrymalis. For- merly called the gland, innominata, is a conglomerate gland, of a yellowish colour, of an oval, flattened form, and, about the size of a small altnond. It is situated in the hollow of the orbitar process of the os frontis, at the anterior and outer part of the orbit; it cannot be well seen till the orbit be dissected.