205 Sect. III. ascertained without introducing the finger into its cavity. In order to examine the internal structure of the auricle, it is to be opened without injuring the pulmonary veins, which may be accomplished by a crucial incision between them. The inner side is formed by the septum of the auricles, on the surface of which is a kind of semilunar valve, the convex edge of which passes continuously into the surface of the auricle behind. This fold of membrane is applied to the corresponding valve of the right auricle; but is so situated with respect to it, that if they were separated from each other, the passage between the auricles would be oblique. The concave edge of the valve bounds a space like that of the fossa ovalis of the right side, but less deep. To the right the pulmonary veins of that side enter, the one from above to the upper part, the other from below obliquely to the lower part, and to the left are seen the openings of the two left pulmonary veins. The latter are close to each other, and sometimes form but a single opening. Before them is the cavity of the appendix : its surface is un- equal from bundles of muscular fibres, but which are not so numerous as those in the appendix of the right auricle. Below, and anteriorly, the auricle is terminated by a large opening, by which it communicates with the left ventricle, namely, by the aurtculo-ventiucular opening. Left Ventricle. Its form is conical, somewhat like the less end of an egg. In consequence of the thickness of its parietes, it does not become flattened when empty, like the right, but appears rounded transversely. It is longer than the right ventricle, its apex projecting more. Its internal structure is best displayed by two incisions, one carried along the septum, the other along the upper part of the ventricle transversely, so as to meet the first below the opening of the aorta. They thus form an L reversed (q). The internal surface presents a network of bundles of mus- cular fibres, not so numerous, however, nor so irregularly dis- posed, as those in the right ventricle. Two columns, carnece columnar, considerably larger than the others, arise from the middle of the parietes, the one from the anterior, the other from the posterior surface. These pass from below upwards, obliquely in the cavity, towards the base. The column is not always single, but often consists of two or more shafts, ter- minating in a rounded extremity; from which arise minute tendinous cords, chordae tendinece, that diverge and become attached to the edge of the membranous fold, which extends from the margin of the auricular opening. The left ven- tricle terminates superiorly by two openings, the auricular