Sect. V. 311 the tcrist it has behind it the ligamentum carpi annulate, a small slip of which usually passes before it: and, on the inner side, the os pisifonne. In the palm of the hand it has behind it the tendons of the flexors of the fingers, and is only covered by the aponeurosis and skin. Its branches are 1. recurrent ulnar. A. recurrens ulnar is. Is a branch of considerable size. It is commonly the first, but a smaller muscular branch sometimes is first given oft'. It passes up- wards between the sublimis and profundus, and through the flexor carpi ulnaris, furnishing branches to these muscles, as far as the hollow between the inner condyle and olechranon, and inosculates with the lesser deep and with the anastomosing branch of the brachial artery. It is sometimes, in the case of a high division, a branch of the interosseal artery. 2. interosseal. A. interossea. Is a branch of consider- able size. It is sometimes a branch of the brachial artery, and in a high division is usually given off by the radial. It furnishes one or two branches to the adjacent muscles, and then divides into two nearly equal branches, that occasionally come off separately, viz. the anterior and posterior interosseal branches. a. Posterior interosseal. (R. interosseus posterior.) Passes backwards through the hole in the interosseous liga- ment. It then gives off the recurrent interosseal, (A. recurrens interossea,) which passes upward between the radius and ulna, and inosculates upon the back part of the elbow with the other anastomosing branches of the humeral, radial, and ulnar arteries, forming with these a plexus of vessels at this part. After detaching this branch the posterior interosseal is con- tinued downwards between the extensors of the thumb and that of the fingers, furnishing branches in its course to these muscles, and reaches as low as the wrist. /3. Anterior interosseal. (R. interosseus anterior.) Is the larger of the two ; it takes its course downward upon the anterior surface of the interosseous ligament, and fur- nishes branches to the flexor muscles, some which perforate the interosseous ligament, and supply the extensors ; it also gives off commonly the nutritious arteries of the radius and ulna. Near the edge of the pronator quadratus it passes through the interosseous ligament, anti divides into branches which, upon the back ot the carpus and hand, anastomose with blanches of the posterior interosseous and dorsal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries, forming with these