48 Sect. I. The Foramina in this bone are numerous perfect and three imperfect pairs. The perfect are Foramina cryhrosa, through which the olfactory and eth- moidal nerves pass to the nose. The openings of the posterior ethmoidal sinuses. The imperfect foramina are 1. The openings of the anterior ethmoidal sinuses. 2 & 3. Foramina orbitaria interna anteri.ora 8$ posterior a, in the upper edge of the flat plate completed by the os frontis, through the anterior of which the ethmoidal nerve passes up into the skull, and through the posterior an artery and vein to the ethmoidal sinuses. Junctions. The os ethmoides is joined above by the edges of its crybriform plate to the edges of the ethmoidal notch of the os frontis, and to the os sphenoides; and by the poste- rior part of its nasal plate to the latter bone and to the vomer; by the fore part of the same plate to the back part of the nasal crista of the os frontis; by the anterior edge of its flat plate with the os lachrymale; and by the lower edge of the same plate with the superior maxillary bone and palate bone. There are not any muscles attached to or covering this bone. SPHENOID BONE. Os Sphenoides. Situation. In the middle of the skull, immediately behind the bones of the face. Description. This bone is called sphenoid or wedge bone, because it seems to wedge and lock together all the other bones of the skull. It is divided into the body, corpus, two temporal portions, partes temporales, and two pterygoid portions, partes pterygoidece. Thk Body Is situated in the middle of the bone, and may be said to resemble an oblong square box, with its long axis from before to behind; it is bounded before by its nasal surface, facies nasalis, behind by its occipital surface, facies occipi- talis, and laterally by a perpendicular line raised from the pro- cessus pterygoidei, the most depending part of the bone. On the middle of the upper part of the body is the Turkish sad- dle, sella tursica, concave from before to behind, and in it rests the pituitory gland of the brain; the sella tursica is bounded behind by a broad process, the posterior clinoid pro- cess, processus clinoidesposterior, so called from its supposed resemblance to the nob of a bedstead; it is, however, nearly flat above, with a trifling cavity from side to side; it is bounded before by the processus olivaris, olive-shaped pro-