Sect. IV. 247 is frequently found disposed in folds from the contraction of the muscular fibres. Most of these are longitudinal, some are transverse, and at the cardia they are radiated. It is con- nected with the muscular coat by a fine dense cellular mem- brane, which has been erroneously described as an expansion of nerve, and called the nervous^coat of the stomach. At the pyloric orifice is situated the pylorus, a kind of valve, corresponding to the external depression. It has the form of a broad flat ring, fixed by its circumference, whictris thick, to the parietes of the stomach, and forming a round aperture by its internal thin edge. It is composed of a doub- ling of the mucous membrane, which encloses a bundle of muscular fibres, cellular texture, and a process of a substance so dense as to resemble cartilage, and which gives firmness to the projection. This valve shuts the stomach, during digestion, and prevents the too early passage of the food. Intestines. In order to examine the structure of the intes- tines, it will be found most convenient to remove them. They may be divided above, at the commencement of the jejunum, leaving the duodenum untouched, and below at the termination of the colon, after having applied two ligatures round the in- testine at each part, and divided between. In dissecting them out of the abdomen, it should he done carefully, so as not to destroy more than is necessary : and in order to this, we should divide only the processes of peritonaeum, by which they are retained. Portions then may be separated for dissection, viz. a part of the ilium for the structure of the small intestines, a portion of the arch of the colon for the structure of the large intestines ; and the termination of the ilium, and the beginning of the colon and coecum, in one piece, for the examination of the valve at that part. These portions are to be washed and inflated, and that which is reserved for the dissection of the valve dried. Small Intestines. Their structure is similar to that of the stomach. They are cylindrical, and present a smooth and even surface externally. The external orperitonceal coat is a continuation of the peritonaeum. It closely invests the intestines, except at the posterior part where the mesen- tery begins. At that part it is rather loosely connected by cel- lular membrane, but over the whole of the rest of the surface is intimately united by fine cellular membrane to the muscular coat. I he muscular coat is composed of two sets of fibres : an external, in which the fibres are disposed longitudinally, are very minute, and most distinct on the convexity of the intestine; and an internal, consisting of transverse fibres,