278 Sect. IV. exceeding an inch in length, and being little more than the third part of that in thickness. It is fixed to the fore part of the symphysis pubis. It consists of a hotly formed by the junc- tion of two crura, or corpora cavernosa, contained in a liga- mentous sheath with a septum between them. The crura are upwards of twice the length of the body, and, together with the muscles belonging to them, are attached to the crura of the ossa ischii and ossa pubis. The corpora cavernosa have the same structure as those of the penis in the male, ex- cept that the spongy texture is more dense. The clitoris has a ligamentum suspensorium by which it is connected with the ossa pubis. It is also provided with a glans which is covered by a continuation of the skin. The clitoris differs from the penis of the male in being destitute of corpus spongiosum, and having no perforation in it, corresponding to the urethra, for the passage of the urine. The glans is covered by a continuation of the skin of the labia, which at its inferior ex- tremity forms a semilunar fold termed preeputium clitoridis. The prepuce is furnished with follicles called glandulce odo- riferce upon its inner surface, and with a small freenum which fixes it to the glans. Meatus Urinarius, or Urethra. Has its orifice placed behind and a little below the glans of the clitoris, and between the two nymphas. It is surrounded by a spongy eminence, which projects at its posterior part, and forms a kind of lip to the orifice, called by some authors the female Prostate Gland. The canal itself is somewhat more than an inch in length ; slightly curving in its direction behind the symphysis pubis. The orifice is surrounded by several la- cunae, or follicles, of considerable depth, secreting a viscid mucus to lubricate those parts, called often Coivper’s glands. Orifice of the Vagina, termed likewise Os Ex- ternum Uteri. Is placed immediately under the orifice of the urethra. It is naturally contracted in the virgin state by the membrane called the hymen, or the circulus membranosus: a membranous process, the common form of which is that of a crescent moon, the broadest part being situated towards the perineum, the opening above, and the horns lost on the sides of the orifice. After its rupture, several small eminences are found in its place : and these are supposed to be the re- mains of the hymen. They are generally small, firm, rounded vascular bodies, and thence called carunculce myrtiformes; in number varying from five to six. The blood-vessels and nerves of the external parts are from