186 Sect. HI. down behind the trachaea into the chest, and is inclined in its course rather to the left. It rests behind upon the cervical vertebrae, and is connected before with the trachaea. As a more particular description of these parts will be given hereafter, the dissection may now be continued. b. Superior Hyoideal Region, containing four muscles. 1. M. Digastricus. Situation. Below the jaw; its origin partially covered by the insertion of the sterno mastoideus, its insertion directly under the chin. Origin. Tendinous and fleshy from the digastric fossa, at the root of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. It passes downward and forward, and forms a strong round tendon, which passes through the stylo-hyoideus, and is fixed by ligament to the os hyoides. It runs then obliquely up- wards and forwards, and forms a second fleshy belly. Insertion. Into the rough surface at the under part of the symphysis of the lower jaw. Use. To pull the lower jaw down, if the os hyoides be fixed ; but if the jaw be fixed, it raises the os hyoides, and with it the larynx. 2. M. Stylo-hyoideus. Situation. Before the posterior belly or origin of the digastricus, and behind the angle of the lower jaw. Origin. From the under half of the styloid process. It runs downward and forward. Insertion. Into the os hyoides at the junction of the base and cornu. Use. To pull the os hyoides upwards and aside. 3. M. Mylo-hyoideus. Situation. Partially covered by the submaxillary gland behind, and by the anterior belly of the digastricus before; both of which must be removed, to show its Origin. Broad and fleshy from the inside of the lower jaw, between the last dens molaris, and the middle of the chin. Insertion. Into the upper edge of the base of the os hyoides, and joins with its fellow between that bone and the l0'l75e U To depress the lower jaw if the os hyoides be fixed; or to raise the os hyoides if the jaw be fixed. Turn back the mylo-hyoideus from its attachment to the lower jaw, dissect the sublingual gland, and trace the duct of the submaxillary gland into the mouth. Sublingual Gland. Is the smallest of the sali-