362 Sect. V. those of the parietes and of the organs contained within the chest. a. Of the parietes. Those of the sides consist of branches from all the parts which form the parietes of the chest. They unite into trunks, which accompany the blood- vessels in the intercostal spaces, and join at the side of the vertebral column with branches from the spinal canal, and from the muscles of the back. They pass through the glands at the side of the spine, and terminate in the thoracic duct. Those of the fore part arise from the upper part of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm, are united into trunks which take their course at the sides of the posterior surface of the sternum, pass through the glands, which are there situated, receive in their course branches from the intercostal spaces, and form one or two trunks which ascend before the left subclavian vein. Those of the right side terminate in the right trunk or separately in the subclavian or jugular vein. Those of the left side terminate in the left trunk. ft. Of the lungs. The superficial arise from all parts of their surface, and form a complicated network or plexus upon their lobes. They form trunks which pass to the inner surface, and terminate in the bronchial glands. The deep-seated arise from the substance of the lungs, anasto- mose freely with the superficial, are united into trunks, which accompany the ramifications of the air-tube and blood- vessels, and terminate in the bronchial glands. The vessels which pass off from the bronchial glands form two or three trunks, which ascend behind the internal jugular vein, and terminate on the right side in the right trunk, and on the left in the left trunk of the absorbents. The trunks above described receive the absorbents of the pericardium and thymus gland, which ascend in the anterior mediastinum, where they pass through some small glands. 7. Of the heart. The absorbents of the heart ac- company its vessels, ascend upon the aorta and pulmonary artery, and pass through several small glands in their course. They unite with the absorbents of the lungs, thymus gland, and anterior mediastinum, and terminate in the left trunk of the absorbents, or separately in the subclavian and jugular vein.