Sect V. 375 upon the hyo-glossus muscle, dividing into branches, distri- buted to the* muscles under the tongue and to the fleshy part of the tongue itself, and joining by one or two branches with the gustatory branch of the fifth pair It sends off in its course the 1. Descending branch, (R. descendens lingualis, vel noni,) which comes off near the root of the occipital artery. It descends along the external carotid artery, and lower on the inner side of the internal jugular vein, and is sometimes included in the sheath of the vessels. It then turns forward, sending a branch to the omo-hyoideus, and filaments to the muscles of the larynx; and forms an arch, with a branch from the second and third cervical nerves, from which branches are given off to the omo-hyoideus, sterno-hyoideus, and sterno-thyroideus. 2. Muscular branches. Distributed to muscles between the maxilla and the os hyoides. ยง 2. SPINAL NERVES. They consist of thirty-one pairs divided into the cervical, dorsal, lumbar and sacral nerves. CERVICAL NERVES. Accessory. N. spinalis ad par vagum accesso- rius, N. accessorius Willisii. Arises from the back part of the lateral surface of the spinal marrow by numerous fila- ments, which come off close to the posterior roots of all the cervical nerves ; although sometimes it has fewer roots. It passes up near the posterior roots of the upper cervical nerves, and enters the cranium through the foramen magnum; then takes its course with the pneumo-gastric, and passes with it through the lacerated opening of the skull; but, sometimes, through a separate opening of the dura mater. It then de- taches a branch, which forms a junction, by separate filaments, with the pharyngeal and pneumo-gastric nerves. The nerve descends behind the internal jugular vein, then between that vessel and the sterno-mastoid muscle ; passes through the sterno-mastoid, detaching branches which unite with branches of the second and third cervical nerves, with twigs of the fourth and fifth, and terminates on the inner surface of the trapezius. 1 SubocciprrA l. N. infra-occipitalis, cervicalis primus, decimus cerebri. Is of very small size. It arises