328 Sect. V. these branches are found considerably enlarged when the trunk* of the femoral artery has been obstructed. 4. muscular branches. The femoral artery in the rest of its course after having given off the deep artery furnishes various but inconsiderable branches to the muscles and skin at the inner and fore part of the thigh. 5. anastomotic branch. It. anastomoticus. Is sent off just before the artery passes through the tendon of the tri- ceps ; and takes its course downward and forward upon the vastus interims muscle; upon which it divides into branches, some of which anastomose with the arteries at the upper and inner part of the knee. Popliteal Artery. A. Poplitea. Takes its course obliquely downward and outward, and reaching as low as the edge of the popliteus muscle, ter- minates by dividing into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. In the greater part of its course it is deep-seated, owing to the projection of the muscles at the sides which bound the ham. Posteriorly. It is covered in the greater part of its course by the popliteal vein and tibial nerve, the latter being the most superficially situated and cor-, responding to the edge of the semi-membranosus : fat and cellular membrane are interposed between it and the in- teguments, but it is connected at the upper part of the leg with the gastrocnemii and plantaris. Anteriorly. It is only separated from the os femoris, and lower from the capsule of the knee-joint, by fat and cellular membrane, and below it is applied to the popliteus muscle. On the outer side. It is first contiguous to the biceps, and is then placed close to the outer head of the gastrocnemius externus. On the inner side. It has the semi-membranosus and lower down the inner head of the gastrocnemius externus muscle. In the whole of its course it is embedded in fat, and in a loose cellular structure. Above, it is surrounded by muscles, though only loosely connected with them ; and below it is firmly embraced by thick and strong muscles. Although it is placed so near to the thigh bone, it would be with difficulty compressed on account of the projection of the muscles at the * See Sir A. Cooper’s Account of the dissection of a limb on which the operation for popliteal aneurism had been performed, in the Med. Chir. Trans, vol. ii. p. 251.