376 Sect. V. from the beginning of the spinal cord on its fore part, com- monly by a single root, and sometimes by two, like the other spinal nerves. It passes out between the occipital bone and the transverse process of the atlas, where it becomes slightly enlarged, and, at the posterior edge of the atlas, divides into two branches. The anterior smaller passes forwards between the transverse process of the first vertebra and the mastoid process, divides into filaments, joining with the first cervical, the lingual and the sympathetic nerve, and furnishes twigs to the adjacent parts. The posterior larger passes backward and divides into branches to the recti and obliqui capitis. The other Cervical Nerves consist of seven pairs. The three upper -cervical are smaller than the lower. The anterior branches of the upper, form junctions with each other, soon after passing from the vertebral foramina, and from these other branches arise, which again uniting and di- viding, form an intricate plexus, which has been called the cervical plexus : from this plexus nerves of communica- tion pass to the sub-occipital nerve and to the superior and middle cervical ganglion cf the sympathetic, and some ana- tomists describe all the cervical branches as originating from it. 1. Cervical. N. cervicalisprimus. Passes out between the atlas and dentata, and divides into two branches, an anterior dhd posterior. 1. Anterior, or smaller, passes forward, sends a branch upward, to join with the suboccipital, from which filaments are detached to join with the superior cervical ganglion, with the lingual, and the pneumo-gastric nerve ; and sends a branch downward to join with the second cervical. 2. Posterior, Large Occipital Branch. (N. oc- cipitalis maxim us.) Is directed backward, and, alter furnish- ing branches to the extensors of the head and neck, ascends upon the occiput, and divides into branches to the skin and occipito-frontalis, some of its filaments forming junctions with branches of ihe fifth pair and the facial nerve. 2. Cervical. N. cervicalis secumlus. Larger than the former, passes out between Ihe second and third ver- tebra, and divides into an anterior and posterior branch. 1. Anterior. Supplies some filaments to the muscles on the fore part of the vertebrae, detaches branches