THE CHIRURGICAL WORKS O F PERCIVALL POTT, F.R.S. AND SURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL. VOL, Hi.THE M DCC XC. CHIRURGICAL WORKS O F PERCIVALL POTT, F.R.S. SURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL. A NEW EDITION, WITH HIS LAST CORRECTIONS. TO WHICH ARE ADDED A Short Account of the Life of the Author, A METHOD OF CURING the HYDROCELE by INJECTION, AND OCCASIONAL NOTES and OBSERVATIONS. By JAMES E A R L E, Eff. SURGEON EXTRAORDINARY TO HIS MAJESTY'S HOUSEHOLD, ' AND SURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL. IN THREE VOLUMES. VOL. III. Mi curaticmbut docuerit; ficut in caterh ommbus artibus: tarn ne Agricolam quidem aut Gubernatorm Dijputalione, fed Ufu fieri. A. Corn. Celsus. LONDON: ' TINCTAEnF1,;0R J' J0HN,i0N> G- C J- AND J. ROB IN SON, I'. LOWND^s/' MURRAY> W" F°X' BEW' ^ HAYES> ™°Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archlve.org/details/b21461818_0003CONTENTS o r vol. nr. •AN Account of the Method of obtaining a perfecl or rafV dual Cure of the Hydrocele, by Means of a Seton — Radical Cure of the Hydrocele, by means of an IN_ 3 JECtion, by the Editor Of the Fistula in Ano _ 35 The Forms under which it makes its Appearance, tSc. (Sc. 82 Habits mofl liable to the Diforder Manner of treating it in its different States and Grcum- ^ Jlances , Obfervations on Hemorrhoidal Excrescences by " the Editor Remarks on the Cataract _ *—* 2 r r Remarks on the Polypus of the Nose —. Cancer Scroti 2^2 ~"~ 2 57 Obfervationsvi CONTENT S. Page Observations and Cafes relative to Ruptures 263 Jntejlinal Hernia — — — 296 * *2 1 6 Congenial Hernia — -3 Hernia Vefica urinaria — 34-6 Ovarian Hernia — , 352 Obfervations on the Mortification of the Toes W Feet — — — 355 Remarks on the Nccejfuy and Propriety of Amputation zn ^rtaz'ra Cafes — . Remarks on the Palsy lower Limbs - 409 Farther Remarks on the ufelefs State of the lower Limbs, in conference of a Curvature of the Spine - 445 Account ,/Tumours which rendered the Bones//* 499 General Index to the whole Work — . ANAN ACCOUNT OF THE METHOD OF OBTAINING A PERFECT OR RADICAL CURE OF THE H YD ROCELE, BY MEANS OF A SETON. Vol. III./ AN ACCOUNT, &c. An Hydrocele is fo irkfome a difeafe to the indigent and laborious, furnimes even the eafy and opulent with fuch difagreeable ideas and apprehenfions, and is to all who are afflicted with it fo troublefome and incon- venient, that every rational attempt toward relieving mankind from fuch an evil, will, I make no doubt, be favourably received. It is now fome years lince I flrft began to make particular inquiry into the nature of this, and fome other difeafes of the tef- ticle, and the ufual methods of treating them ; an inquiry, which they appeared to me, for many reafons, both to deferve and require. The refult I communicated to the public, under the title of " A Treatife on the Hydrocele, or Watery Rupture, and other difeafes of the tefticle, its coats andveifelsj" in which I endeavoured to be as precife, and as explicit as I could, B 2 One4 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE One part of this tract contains an exa- mination of the various means, which, at different times, have either accidentally produced a radical cure, or have been pro- fefledly propofed, and praclifed for fuch purpofe. Among other means ufed to obtain this end, I mentioned the Seton; and fpake of it as that which, for many reafons, appeared to me to be preferable to all others; as a method which 1 had for fome time practifed with great fuccefs; and as that which, if nothing mould occur to induce me to change my opinion, I mould continue to make ufe of. Since that time I have had frequent op- portunities of repeating the experiment; and it has fo conftantly and uniformly anfwered my expectation, that my opinion concerning it is determined; and I am convinced, that it is the moft fuccefsfully efficacious of any. This might be urged, and would perhaps be admitted, as a good reafon for laying my thoughts on the fubjefl: again before the public; but I have others alfo to plead in vindication of the few following pages. In the firft place, I think that I have con- fiderably and materially improved the oper- ationSY MEANS OF A SETOK* £ ation and procefs; and have rendered it lefs painful and more certain. In the feCond, I find, that what I faid of" it in the general treatife, has not been fo clearly and perfectly urtderftood as I could have wifhed; and in confequence either of brevity and obfeurity on my part, or mifintel- ligence on the part of fome of my readers, my true meaning has not been received; and I have been fubjedted to the frequent inter- ruption of troublefome correfpondences on the fubject. And, in the third place, I might add, that fome few gentlemen of confequence, who have by this means been cured; have re- queued this publication. A minute account of the nature and cir- cumftances of the difeafe, would be a mere repetition of what I have already faid at large in the book referred toj would be therefore unneceffary, and befide my prefent purpofe: a fhort and curfory one may perhaps throw juft as much light on the fubject, as may ferve to render the defcription of the oper- ation, and the treatment after it, more eafily intelligible. The common bag in which both the tef- B 3 tides6 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE tides are included, is called the Scrotum, and confifts of epidermis, fkin, and that loofe cellular membrane, which is here called the Dartos; to which might perhaps be added, the expanded fibres of the cre- mafter mufcle on each fide. The proper coats of the tefticle, are, the tunica albuginea, and the tunica vaginalis. The former of thefe immediately inverts the vafcular corn- pages of the teftis, and is that coat with which it is covered while within the cavity of the abdomen, before birth. The latter is formed on the outfide of the faid cavity, is a procefs of the peritoneum, and is placed ready for the reception of the tefticle when it mail be thruft forth through the groin into the fcrotum. Between the vafcular ftru&ure of the tefticle, and the tunica albuginea, there is no vacuity; but the ex- ternal furface of the gland is in every part firmly adherent to, and connected with the internal one of the inverting coat: the tunica vaginalis forms a hollow cavity, or bag, which loofely and unconnededly envelopes the tefticle, covered by its albuginea. When I fay loofely and unconnecledly, I would wifti to be underftood aright. I do notfeY MEANS OF A SETON* y not mean that the tefticle hangs in the middle of the tunica vaginalis, (like a clapper Within a bell) and has no connexion with it; I mean,that all the fuperior, anterior, and lateral parts of the tunica vaginalis are loofe from, and unconnected with, the tef- ticle, which is at the fame time firmly united to its pofterior part, in fuch manner, that if the cavity of the tuniea; vaginalis was to be diftended with wind, fuch wind would oc- cupy or fill all the loofe and unconnected part, and produce a tumefaction not unlike to a hydrocele, while the tefticle would be found firmly and immoveably attached to the hinder part of the faid cavity fo diftended. To prevent the accretion of thefe coats in thofe parts where they ought to be un- connected, and perhaps for fome other pur- pofes, the cavity of the tunica vaginalis is furnifhed with a fine lymph conftantly ex- fuding into it; which lymph is as conftantly abforbed by proper vefTels; fo that, in a healthy and natural ftate, there never is any more of this fluid, within the bag, at a time than may jua ferve (befide what other pur- pofe it may be intended for) to keep the two membranes from coming into imme- B 4 dwte8 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE diate dry contact, and cohefion with each other. This fmall quantity is fufficient to preferve the proper and natural cavity of the tunic; but never occafions any degree of in- tumefcence, or any unnatural or difeafed ap- pearance of the part. A deficiency, or total failure of the fe- cretion of this fluid, will be followed by a partial or total coalefcence of the two coats with each other; and confequently a total or partial abolition of the cavity: a fuper- abundance, or a fecretion of more than the abforbent veffels can take up, muft, on the other hand, enlarge and diftend the faid cavity, by carrying all the loofe unconnected part of the bag farther and farther from the tefticle, in proportion to the quantity accu- mulated. The former, I do know to be fometimes, and I verily believe moft fre- quently is, the confequence of a fevere hernia humoralis, as well as of other inflam- mations of the tefticle. The latter, among other difeafcs, produces the hydrocele or watery rupture. . , . This being the cafe, that is, the intu- mcfcencc of the fcrotal bag being caufcd bv the gradual accumulation oi a fluid * whichEV MEANS OF A SETON. $ which ought to have been abforbed, it is almoft always produced gradually -} and therefore has, in moll inftances, made fome progrefs before it is taken notice of; efpecially by carelefs and inattentive people. For the fame reafon it will be found, that as it depends upon the circumftances of fecretion and abforption; it will, in diffe- rent people, make quicker or flower pro- grefs, according as the depofition fhali hap- pen to be quicker or flower, and the ab- forbent faculty, only more or lefs impaired, or totally obftructed. As this difeafe is confined to the cavity of the tunica vaginalis teftis, and as this bag has no communication, with the cavity of the belly, the tumefaction can never be lerTened by any attempt toward reducing or returning it into the abdomen.. For the fame reafon, it never is, nor can be liable to any alteration of fize, or tem- porary detention, from the efforts or ac- tions of coughing, fneezing, expulflon of faeces, Sec. For the fame reafon, (I mean the confinement of the fluid within the cavity of the tunica vaginalis) the intumefcence, when early attended to, will always be found in the lower part, and does not rife aboveIO RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE above the upper part of the tefticle, until the difeafe has made fome progrefs, and the quantity is become confiderable: therefore the fpermatic proceis will always, in the early ftage of this diftemper, be capable of being felt perfe&ly and diftin&ly; although when the tumor has arrived to any con- fiderable degree of fize, the fluid does fo conceal the tefticle, as to render it not a very eafy matter to find it. The three laft circum- ftances, well attended to, will always ferve to diftinguifli the hydrocele from the in- teftinal hernia or common rupture,, at leaft in the beginning. To thefe might be added, feveral other chara&eriftical marks of this diftemper; fuch as, That being neither ac- companied by, nor occafioning any inflam- mation, or irritation, it never gives pain, unlefs it be very rudely handled, or be permitted to attain fuch fize as to be troublefome from its weight, or to be fubjedto excoriation from its magnitude; which may ferve to diftinguifli it from the hernia humoralis, an inflammatory, and often a very painful, diforder. That if the fluid be thin and limpid, and the vaginal coat and membranes of the fcrotum not thick,BY MEANS OF A SETONV II thick, the tumor is often in feme degree tranfparent j that is, the light of a candle or lamp may be feen through it. That con- ftipation of the belly does not render it at all more tenfe, or produce any uneafmefs in it while it lafts; neither does the removal of fuch obstruction or conftipation at all lefien. its volume, or make any alteration in it either to the eye, or to'the finger. To all which ought always to be added, the fluctua- tion of the fluid. The fize and figure of the tumor, caufed by this difeafe, are liable to confiderable variety, dependent upon the quantity and confidence of the fluid accumulated; the" time fuch accumulation may have taken up 5 the thicknefs or thinnefs of the vaginal bag, and membranes of the fcrotum; and the equal or unequal manner in which thefe parts may have given way to the diftention. Hence the tumor will be larger or fmaller, round, flattifh, pyriform, or globular; will be firm, tenfe, and refiftent, or lax, foft, and eafily compreffible; fmooth and regular in its furface, making one uniform figure, or divided by a kind of depreffion or liriclure, which will make it appear as if the water was12 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE was in two diftinct facculi or bags > it will alio be more or lefs tenfe, as well as regular in its furface, as the contractile power of the fcrotum, by means of the cremafter mufcles, mall be more or lefs. / The qualities of confidence and colour in the contained fluid is alfo various: it is thin, aqueous,' ropy, vifcid, limpid, citrine, greenifh, brown, bloody, clear, or turbid; from each of which fome fmall differences in the afpect, feel, weight, tranfparency or obfcurity of the tumor will arifej but are of no confequence with regard to any method of treatment, palliative or radical. The methods of cure of a hydrocele are faid to be two, one called the Palliative, the other the Radical ; the latter of which alone deferves the name of cure. The former confifts merely in letting out the water occafionally, and is fo fimple and fo trifling an operation, that I mall fay nothing more of it, than that I think a fmall trochar a much preferable inftrument for this purpofe on all accounts to the lancet, or any other. The radical cures, as they are called, may be collected from the writings of feveral of ourBY MEANS OF A SETON. 13 our predeceffors. The general means they made ufe of were cautery, cauftic, ligature, and tent. For the particulars relative to each of thefe, I muft beg leave to refer my reader to the writers themfelves, a minute detail of them not being confident with the plan of thefe few fheets. But without enter- ing into fuch difquifition, I believe I may venture to fay, that whoever will give him- felf this trouble, will find, that all the means which were either profelfedly ufed to obtain a radical cure, or which ultimately and ac- cidentally produced fuch event, were put in practice for three general reafons, or under the influence of three general opinions; the firft of which was, that the fluid found in the fac of a hydrocele was always originally formed in the cavity of the belly, and de- fended from thence into the fcrotum; the fecond, that it was a difeafe of the habit, as well as of the particular part; that is, that it was general, as well as local; the third, that the collection of liquor found in it was either the neceflary caufe, or the confequence, of a difeafed ftate of the teftis. From thefe flow the applications of cau- tery and cauftics to the groin, and of liga- tuies44 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE tures on the fpermatic procefs. From thefe are derived all the cautions to undertake the cure guardedly, to conduct it flowly, and to attend rigidly to the patient's general ftate by cathartics, alteratives, fpecifics, iffues, &c. &x. &c and to thefe we owe the ex- periments made to induce fuppuration from the parts affected, Not being acquainted with the anato- mical ftru&ure and difpofition of the parts concerned in the difeafe, they had very terrible as well as very erroneous notions concerning it. They fuppofed that the fluid contained in the cyft was thrown off from the habit as a kind of crifis; that the general constitution of the patient was by: fuch depofition much relieved; that it prevented many other, and thofe worfe diforders, and, either that a morbid ftate of the tefticle and epididymis concurred in producing the fluid, or that the fame parts neceffarily became difeafed from lying in it. They therefore concluded, that although a radical or per- fect cure might be obtained by certain means, or that certain means having been found now and then to have produced fuch event, they might with probability be expected to i anfwerBY MEANS OF A SET0N. 15 anfwer fuch purpofe, yet the attempt ought never to be made without a Arid: attention to the general evils which might enfue, as well as to the particular ones proceeding from the fuppofed morbid ftate of the parts. Inquiry and experiment have taught us better; have given us truer notions of the nature of the complaint; have induced us totally to lay afide many of the means ufed by our fore-fathers; and although we do ftill in fome fort continue fome of them, yet it is upon different principles, and with very different views. The noxious quality of the fluid ; the difeafed ftate of the parts whence it pro- ceeds, or wherein it is depofited; the cri- tical, or depuratory nature of the depofi- tion; the neceffity of drawing off the water partially and at fhort intervals; and the fear of curing it locally left the general habit mould fuffer; are all now known to be groundlefs apprehenfions : and it being alfo known, that the colleaion of fluid is originally made in the tunica vaginalis only, and that it does not defcend from the belly, all attempts towards preventing fuch defcent are become equally abfurd. Thel6 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE The tefticle, although frequently fome- what enlarged in its dimenfions, and re- laxed in its texture, is known to be found, to be otherwife unaffected, and unaltered, and to be fit for, and capable of perform- ing the functions it was defigned to ex- ecute ; the fluid is acknowledged to be in- noxious in its nature, neither proceeding from parts in a difeafed ftate, nor caufing any difeafe in the parts in which it is de- pofited, and with which it is in contact; but being accumulated in confequence of conftant fecretion, and deficient, or non- executed abforption, the intention of every rational praftitioner, when he aims at a ra- dical cure, is, to abolim the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, and thereby to prevent any future collection. Whatever means can accomplilh this end with the leaft fatigue, pain, or hazard, are certainly the beft. Of the incifion I (hall in this place fay nothing except that it lies under fo many reflraints from a variety of circumftances, is fo improper for the majority of perfons affliaed with the difeafe, and requires inch nice attention and fuch judicious manage. *** ment,BY MEANS OF A SETON. I7 ment, that it never can be recommended as fit for general practice. The cauftic, upon the rational principle of which I am now fpeaking, viz. that of abolifhing the cavity of the tunica vagina- lis, has been pra&ifed by many 5 and that with fuch fuccefs as to induce fome to think it the belt, and mod eligible method : Among thefe is Mr. Elfe, who has lately publifhed his opinion on the fubject. The introduction of fuppurative medi- cines, by means of a tent, was pra&ifed by fome of even our remote predeceffors; and, as they tell us, with fuccefs, even in com- plicated cafes ; that is, in cafes where a dif- eafed flate of the tefticle has been added to the hydrocele : but whoever will attentively confider their accounts of this matter, will fee, that this method, whatever might be its accidental confequence, was not intend- ed for the purpofe which I am now fpeak- ing of. Perhaps there is no part of furgery which was lefs underftood by our anceftors, or con- cerning which they expreifed themfelves with fo little precifion, as the fubject of dif- eafes of the tefticle : they have multiplied Vol. III. C andl8 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE and confounded them in fuch manner, and fpeak of them in fuch a jargon of unintel- ligible terms, that it is next to impofiible to underftand often what they really mean. For a particular elucidation of this fub- jedt, the chirurgic world are much obliged to the late Profeffor Monro of Edinburgh, and Mr. Samuel Sharp, late of Guy's Hof- pital, now of Bath. The accounts which many of the beft among the writers in furgery, even quite into our own time, have given of the dif- eafes of thefe parts, under the terms farco- cclc, fungus attached to the fpermatic vef- fels,' fungus arifmg from the tcftis, hydro- cele, and hydro^farcocele, are error itfelf; and\the operations which they defcribe, and recommend, are many of them coarfe, and either impracticable, or very unfit for praaice But however from thefe accounts, ftranec and irrational as they are, we may colled that they conceived the difeafes whicn they call the hydro-farcocele, and the caro adnata ad vafa fpermatica, to be (in con- mdiftindion from the farcocele and the fungus fpringing from the tefticleO curab e difeafes, the one by extirpation of the fungus, the other by foppuradon. ^BY MEANS OF A SETON. IQ No precife definition of what they have thought proper to call the hydro-farcocele has been given by them, and therefore we have no better method of forming a judg- ment concerning it, than by confidering the event and fuccefs of their method of treating what they have fo called, with what we know concerning the ftru&ure of the tefticle, its diforders, the means which we now find to be fuccefsful in them, and the difappointments, and difagreeable cir- cumftances which fometimes occur in them. Fabritius ab Aquapendente has been par- ticular on what he calls the hydro-far- cocele, and has given an account of his method of curing it; but whoever is ac- quainted with difeafes of the tefticle, and will compare with fuch knowledge what Fabritius has faid concerning his method and its fuccefs1, will, I am inclined to be- lieve, think on this fubjecl: as I do; which a ' Si carnofa fimul & aquofa fit hernia, ego talem adhibeo " curam. Seco cutem & incifionem facio & exiguam, & in " loco potius altiori quam in fundo, inde turunda impofita, " cum digeftivo & pus movenie medicamento proccdo, neque ' unquam totum pus extraho, fed perpetuo bonam partem intus " rehnquo, quod fenfim carriem corrodat & ita fanat." Fab, ab A o_yafbndekte. C 2 is,20 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE is, that the difeafe which he gave this hard complex name to, is nothing more than a true, fimple hydrocele, in which the teftis is fomewhat enlarged beyond its natural fize, and perhaps fomewhat relaxed in its texture, in confequence of fuch enlargement; but ft ill found, and free from difeafe j ftill fit for, and capable of, executing its office. That by his method he obtained a radi- cal cure I make no doubt j his ' turunda 'di- geftivo et pus movente medicamento imbuta/ would molt probably occafion a floughing of the tunica vaginalis, and confequently an abolition of the bag or cavity; but whoever knows any thing of thefe matters, mud know, that a tefticle really and truly difeafed would not bear fuch treatment; and there- fore, that his fuccefs was owing to the ftate of the. tefticle not being what he fuppofed it to be, and what the term he makes ufe of implies. The method of Fabritius was within a few years paft adopts* and prated by Ruyfch.^ b m Sanari quidem valet id mail pertufo fcroto ope inflrumenti u trochert diai, vel 'lanceola phlebotomica, ut aqua vulnere - exeat, fed cito plerumque recrudefcit malum. „ Si mum curationem aggredcris aperiendd fcrotum a parte h << fuperior^21 BY MEANS OF A SETON. The means and conduct were nearly the fame, and I have no doubt that the fuccefs Was equal. But the fame objection ftill re- mained j which was, that not only a fitppu- Iration was brought on, but the whole tunica vaginalis was fo irritated and inflamed, that it necefTarily became floiigby, and was en- tirely deftroyed: an objection which had been made to the method by cauftiej and which, I muft acknowledge, is, in my opi- nion, an objection to it ftill. The late profeifor Monro, whofe obferva- tioris on the difeafes of the tefticle are very pertinent and very ingenious, feemed to think that it was by no means impracticable, by means of a flight degree of irritation, to excite fuch an inflammation both in the tunica vaginalis and albugihea, as might occafion a coalefctence of them with each other, and thereby anfwer the end of abolilh- ing the cavity, without deftroying any part of either tunic. *« fuperiori, ad teius; tumque vulnns turunda oblonga, unguento " rofaceo mercurio pnecipitato rubro inun&o oppleveris, donee " lems inflammatio, eique fucccdens fuppuratio parva, mem- " branules ftillames putrefcerit, tunCque eas tenaculo eduxeris,'' Sec. r> KUYSCH. C 3 f I madeZ2 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE I made the experiment propofed by him, and found it fometimes fuccefsful, never hazardous, or prejudicial, but by no means certainly efficacious, or to be depended upon. The cannula, by its hardnefs and refiftance, was a very unpleafant gueft with- in the vaginal coat; and from its inflexi- bility, upon any unguarded motion of the patient, injured the teflicle, and gave very acute pain; and the tent and bougie, which I occafionally fubftituted in its place, al- though they did not give fo much pain, were liable to a confiderable degree of un- certainty. Uncertainty and hazard are certainly very different things, and the latter much pre- ferable to the former: not to have injured a man by . an experiment, affords fome de- gree of confolation under a difappointment: but yet, when it is confidered, that an ope- ration and procefs of this kind is fubmitted to from choice, and not from neceffity, if it fails of fuccefs, although no real harm be done either to the part, or to the con- stitution of the patient, both the lofs of lime and the confinement will become doubly irkfome, as they will be found notBY MEANS OF A SETON. 23 only not to have anfwered the end propofed, but not to have brought the patient at all nearer to a cure than he was before the attempts. The reflection is unpleafant to both parties. Being, from the effects both of the can- nula and tent, fatisfied that there was no kind of hazard in the introduction of a fo- reign body into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, nor from its remaining there, and having many opportunities of meeting with this difeafe in St. Bartholomew's, I determined to try what a feton would do toward railing fuch a degree of inflammation as might occafion a coalition of the two membranes, and effect the purpofe propofed by profeffor Monro.c The fuccefs fully anfwered my expectation. In c His words are, " Conlidering how readily contiguous.in- " flamed parts grow together, and how many inftances there are " of people having a radical cure made of this hydrocele by in- " flammations coming on the part, it would feem no un- " reafonable practice to endeavour a concretion of the two coats c< of the tefticle when they are brought contiguous, after letting " out the water through the cannula of a trochar, by artfully " raifing a fufficient degree of inflammation. " This to be fure muft be done cautioufly, and fo that the " furgeon can reafonably expett to be maiter of the inflam- C4 "mationj24 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE In my general treatife on the difeafes of the tefticle, I mentioned and recommended it; but as I could not be certain what a greater length of time might produce to make me change my opinion, I mentioned it with fome degree of caution. Since that time I have embraced every opportunity, both in the hofpital and out, of pra&ifing it, and that under fome im- provements ; and as I can now fpeak pofi- tively to its fuccefs, I thought it right to give it to the public, who are always in- tituled to every benefit arifing from the labours of every man whom they have ho- noured with any degree of confidence; and this as well on a principle of humanity as of gratitude, What I have faid of it in the general treatKe is in the following words, p. 443. " mation; and therefore the application of all irritating medi- " cines, the operation of which he could not immediately flop, " or any fingle mechanical effort, the eft'eft of which he could " not be Aire of, are not to be employed. *'* Suppofe the cannula of the trochar was to be left, by the «« extremity of it rubbing againfl the teflicle, an inflammation «« might be artfully raifed, the caufe of which might be taken «' away as foon as the furgeon thought fit." Medical Essays. " The33Y MEANS OF A SETON. 25 < The point to be aimed at, is to excite '« fuch a degree of inflammation; both in ' the tunica vaginalis and tunica albuginea, * as (hall occafion a general and perfect « cohefion between them and this, if pof- c fible, without the production of Hough or < abfcefs; without the hazard of gangrene, ' and without that degree of fymptomatic « fever which now and then attend both the ' cauftic and the incifion} and which, when they do happen, are fo alarming both to patient and furgeon. " Thefe ends I have frequently obtained : by the ufe of a feton. " It is a method of cure mentioned by ' Aquapendens from Guido, and others before him, though their procefs was fomewhat different from mine. I have feveral times tried it on fubjects of very different ages, fome of them more than fifty years old. It requires confinement to bed only for a few days, after which the patient may lie upon a couch to the end of the attendance, which is generally nnifhed in about three weeks or a month at farther!:, and during all that time no other procefs or regimen is neceffary, than 7 " whatRADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE what an inflammation of the fame part from any other caufe, (for example a hernia humoralis) would require. " The manner of performing it is as follows. Chooie a time when the vagi- nal coat is moderately diftended, and having pierced it with a trochar of tole- rable fize, draw off* the water; when that is done, introduce into the cannula a probe armed with a feton confining of ten or twelve firings of candle-wick cotton; pais the probe as high to the upper part of the vaginal coat as you can, and on the end of that probe make an in- cifion of fuch fize as to enable you to pull it out eafily, together with a part of < its annexed feton; then cut off the probe, * and tie the cotton very loofely, covering < the orifices with pledgets. By the next < day the feton will be found to have con- t traded fuch an adhefion to the tunica al- < buginea as would caufe a great deal of c pain to detach ; but this it is perfectly < unneceffary to do, and it mould be fuffer- ' ed to remain without moleftation. In c about forty-eight hours the fcrotum and « tefticle begin to fwell and inflame; the " patientBY MEANS OF A SETON. '27 " patient fhould then loofe fome blood, and " have a ftool or two, and the whole tu- " mefied part fhould be wrapped in a foft *' poultice, and fufpended in a bag-trufs. " The difeafe from this time bears the ap- " pearance of a large hernia humoralis, " and mull be treated in the fame manner, " by fomentation, cataplafm, &r. " The adheiion of the feton to the. albu- " ginea generally continues firm, and I never " meddle with, or move it, till it becomes " perfectly loofe, which it feldom does for " the firft fortnight, or until the kuiam:- " mation is going and the tumor fubiiding. " By the time the feton becomes loofe, the " coalition of parts is univerfally and firmly " accompliflied. I then withdraw it, and " heal the orifices with a fuperficial pledget, " 6cc." This method was, as I faid, in general very fuccefsful; but repeated trials furnifh- ed me with objections to fome parts of it, and induced me to think that fuch parts might be amended. I found that cutting upon the end of the probe was troublefome, both from its fmall- ncfs and from its flexibility, and alfj that it was2$ iADlCAt CURE1 OF THE HYDROCELE was fometimes difficult to keep it fteady fot the fame reafonsj and that it always re- quired the afliftance of another perfon's hand befides that of the operator: a circumftance one would always with to avoid when pof- iible. I found alfo, fometimes, that the feton of qandle-wick cotton did not pafs fo eafily as I could wifh -3 and by rubbing the tunica albuginea too rudely, gave more pain than I liked. The feton as made of cotton, adhered, in fome inftances, too long and too firmly. From the intimate connec-. tion of the parts of the wet cotton with each other, it could never be brought away but entire; which, in fome cafes, occafioned an unneceflary wafte of time. And, what ■was flili worfe, in two inftances it adhered fo firmly, that I was obliged to make a fmall incifion to get it away at all. All thefe inconveniences and objection's I have now obviated and removed. The inftruments I now make ufe of are in the annexed plate and are, A trochar, the diameter of whofe cannula is very nearly, but not quite, one fourth of an inch: another cannula, which I call the feton-cannula, which is made of filver, and is"BY MEANS OF A SETON, 2$ Is of fuch diameter as juft eafily to pafs through the cannula of the trochar, its length five inches: and a probe of fix inches one half long, having at one extremity a fine fteel trochar-point, and at the other an eye which carries the fetonj which feton confifts of juft fo much ftrong, coarfe, white fewing- filk as will without difficulty pafs through the latter cannula, but at the fame time will fill it. vif * ..." -v ■ ,1\( With the trochar the inferior and anterior part of the tumor is to be pierced, as in com- mon palliative tapping, As foon as the water is difcharged, and the perforator withdrawn, the feton-cannula is to be pafled through that of the trochar, until it reaches the upper part of the tunica vaginalis, and is .to be felt in the very upper part of the fcrotum. This done, the probe armed with its feton is to be conveyed through the latter cannula, the vaginal coat and integuments to be pierced by its point, and the feton to be drawn through the cannula, until afufficient quantity is brought out by the upper orifice. The two cannulas are then to be withdrawn, and the operation is finifhed. It is exe- cuted in two or three feconds of time, and with30 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE with little more pain than is felt in common- tapping. By this method, every advantage which attended the former .operation is obtained, and every inconvenience which it was liable to, is obviated and provided againft. The feton-cannula, by its firmnefs, bears tight againft the place where the feton mould be brought out; the trochar-point of the probe is kept from deviating by its confine- ment, and its point pierces through the Ikin immediately, and exactly in the place intend- ed; while the feton by pairing through the cannula is prevented from rubbing rudely over the tefticle. As foon as the operation is finifhed, I put the patient into bed, and immediately give him twenty or twenty-five drops of tinctura thebaica, which I repeat or not, pro re nata. About the third day the tefticle and fcro- tum begin to inflame and fwell, 'and to put on the appearance of a hernia humoralis, or the fwelled tefticle 'which now and then attends a clap j and requires the fame and no other kind of treatment; that is, fomen- tation, poultice, a fufpenfory bag, a coo!, temperate regimen, and an open belly.BY MEANS OF A SETON". 31 In By thefe means the inflammation is loon, and eafily appeafed. As foon as this end is accompiifhed, I permit the patient to get out of bed, and lie on a couch, or lit in a great chair with his legs up; and I generally give the cortex in fome form or other twice or thrice a day. The forenefs and tumefaction now dimi- nifh apace; and as foon as the parts are quite eafy, which is generally about the tenth or twelfth day, I begin to withdraw the feton, taking out four, five, fix, or feven threads of it at each dreffing, which dreffing connfts of nothing more than a fuperficial pledget upon each of the orifices while they continue open, and a difcutient cerate (fuch as the ceratum faturnin.) to cover the fcrotum. The di I charge of matter from the orifices is fmall and trifling, no more than might be expected; the tunica vaginalis does not be- come floughy, but is preferved entire; and the cure is accompiifhed merely by the coa- lefcence or cohefion of tbe tunica vaginalis, with the tunica albuginea : an event, which, from what has fallen within my obfervation, I am inclined to believe, is moft frequently the confequence of a fevere hernia humo- ralis.32 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE In this circumftance, viz. the accomplifh- merit of the cure, by adhefion of the two coats together, without any destruction of parts, conlifts the material difference between the method of cure by feton, and that by cauflic. All the practitioners who make ufe of the latter allow, that it produces a flough of the whole tunica vaginalis that it defrroys the whole bag or cyft, and that it is ufed with intention fo to do. In the cure by feton no flough is produced (at leaft I have never feen one), nor is the vaginal coat deilroyed in any part of it; a firm cohefion is made between the two mem- branes, occafioned by the inflammation j and the cure is effected folely thereby. I mall always moft gladly embrace any op- portunity to improve fo noble and fo really ufeful an art as furgery; but, at the fame time, mould be very forry to have it fuppofed, that any1 partiality to my own opinion would make me mifreprefent, or deviate from truth. Since this pamphlet firft appeared, Mr. Else has publifhed a iecond edition of his account of the cure by cauftic. InBY MEANS OF A SETON. 33 In this he has recited two attempts by the feton, which were under the conduct of Mr. Martin, in St. Thomas's hofpital. I make no doubt that the circumfiances were as Mr. Else has related them; but I mull take the liberty of faying, that although I have praftifed the method of cure by feton, on a very considerable number of people, both in the hofpital of St. Bartholomew, and out of it, of all ages, and in all. circumftances, I have never yet met with that trouble, or thofe dif- agreeable fymptoms which Mr. Else has re- lated as happening to Mr. Martin's two pa- tients 5 on the contrary, I am, from very fre- quently repeated experience, convinced, that the cure by the feton is by muchtheleafthazar- dous,painful,-or fatiguing, as well as the mod expeditious and certain of any yet propofedd. d Although I am as much a friend to fimplicity In chirurgic operations as any man can be, and think that whatever can be well done by means of one inftrument, is moft frequently better done than by means of feveral; yet, in this inihnce, I cannot iiejp thinking otherwife. > The intent of the feton-cannula is to defend the tunica albu- * ginea teftis from the rude paflage of the fife over it: from the pain and other difagreeable circumftances which I have feen attend the omiflion of it, I muft again recommend its ufe. though it does add to the inftrumental apparatus. From fre- quent and repeated experience, I mult alfo advifc the ufmg a y0° f,lk i0ftcad of ribband or ^pe. D Whatever34 RADICAL CURE, &c. . Whatever is ufed will neceffarily contratt fome degree of adhefion to the tefticle during its inflamed ftate ; and this ad- hefion will unavoidably create fome little trouble and uneafi- nefs whenever the fetOn is withdrawn; but this pain and trouble will neceffarily be lean; when the feton is compofed of fuch materials as are capable of being taken away at different times infiead of all at once. When a feton of any kind is ufed for the purpofe of making, or of continuing, a drain of matter, it is right to move it daily, and frequently to fhift it; but in this cafe, as the intention is different, fo fhould our conduct be: the intention is merely, by the refidence of the feton, to excite fuch a flight degree of inflammation as fhall occafion of an adhefion of the tunica albuginea teftis to the tunica vaginalis, and not a fuppuration ; the moving it daily, or even at all until the proper time of taking it quite away, can do no good, and rauft, by exciting un- neceffary pain, do harm. I therefore mult repeat my advice, to let it remain unmoved for a week or ten days, at the end of which time it will have ac- complifhed its end, and then had better be removed than not. Suppuration is not only not intended, but fhould, as much as it may be in our power, be guarded againft. RADICALD 2 RADICAL CURE OF T K » HYDROCELE, by means of an injection. BY THE EDITOR,( 37 ) HYDROCELE, The inconveniences attending" the ufual methods of treating the hydrocele are well known to thofe who are engaged in the prac- tice of furgery. The difeafe itfelf is attended with little pain and no danger; many of the remedies now in ufe for it are productive of considerable pain, and are not totally defti- tute of hazard. The proper object of all operations for the radical cure of the hydrocele, is, to produce fuch an adhefion of the diftended vaginal coat of the teftis with the gland, or fuch a confolidation of the contiguous parts, as mail annihilate the cavity in which the water con- ftituting this difeafe is contained. We know that this effecl: may be produced by a cer- tain degree of inflammation, and are un- acquainted with any other procefs, either natural or artificial, by which it can be brought about. Before the method by the feton was recommended by our author, the D 3 necefTary38 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE neceflary inflammation was excited by divid- ing the fcrotum and the vaginal coat, or by deftroying a part of them by the knife or cau flic. Mr. Pott took nofmall pains to mitigate the feverity of this operation, and to raife inflammation in a more fimple manner, by the introduction of a foreign body without deftru&ion of parts. With this view he pre- ferred the feton. This he foon difcovered to be productive of more inflammation than was neceffary; and, afteraferies of trials, he fuggefted many very ingenious directions for performing and concluding this operation in fuch a manner as to produce the leaft poffible irritation. We mutt allow that he carried the procefs he recommends to a great degree of perfection ; and if the operation be per- formed without'deviating from the directions He has laid down, I am convinced it will be found preferable to any of the methods which have been ufually pra&ifed in this country; yet it muftbe obferved, that even this remedy goes beyond the proper inten- tion, as the feton not only excites adhe- five inflammation, but is ne'ceflarily at- tended with forrie degree of fuppuration, atBV MEANS OF AN INJECTION. 39 lean: in the track of it, before it can be removed; add to this, an objection of much more practical confequence, that even in its prefent ftate the inflammation produced by the feton fometimes runs much higher than is intended, and demands the attentive admi- niftration of antiphlogiftic remedies. The late Mr. Else's method, by the ap- plication of a fmall cauftic, has the fame inconveniences, and is liable to a much greater objection; as it is not only attended with more inflammation than isneceflary, but alfo unnecelfarily caufes a painful, offenfive fore, producing a Hough of part, if not the whole, of the tunica vaginalis teftis. The human frame is liable to few difeafes which have more frequently exercifed the ingenuity of practitioners, to find an eafy and effectual cure for them than this. Among- the various methods which have been pro- pofed, an external difcutient has of late been ftrongly recommended. It would certainly be a molt defirable plan, to get rid of the dif- eafe without any operation; but we know too well how confined our powers are in dif- perfing collections of fluids within faccuii mucofi, and fome kinds of encyfted tumors, D 4 whofe40 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE whofe integuments are comparatively thin, and therefore mufl conceive that much greater power would be requifite to act through the fcrotum and thickened tunica vaginalis, fo as to produce abforption of the fluid and cohefion of the tunics. Hydroceles have been accidentally difperfed by various means, particularly by a blow, by a fever, and by ficknefs at fea. I do not entertain the fmalleft doubt, that the above remedy, which has been propofed by an inge- nious and able practitioner, has produced the fame effect; but I cannot help doubting its capability of frequently producing it, having myfelf tried it, and known it tried by others, feveral times without fuccefs. The proportional merit, however, of dif- ferent remedies, can never be exactly deter- mined : few men have opportunities of fee- ing a variety of remedies repeatedly tried, and perhaps ftill fewer pofTefs a fufRcient (hare of candor, to weigh the merits and defefts of each in an equal balance ; consequently me- dical pradice is never fettled in any cafe till it be nearly perfect, or at leaft till fome one propofed remedy bears no comparifon, in point of excellence, with the reft. Thus, in * regardBY MEANS OF AN INJECTION. 4T 8 of regard to the treatment of the hydrocele, though the methods of Mr. Pott and Mr. Else are certainly great improvements; yet, as fome objections maybe made to them, there are at this time furgeons who have returned to the old painful practice of incifion, and cutting away a part of the fcrotum and vagi- nal coat. In this unfettled ftate of practice it will not, I hope, be thought improper to fubjoin fome obfervations of my own, on this fubject, to thofe of Mr. Pott ; which, however, I mould not take the liberty of intruding into this work, had not Mr. Pott himfelf fo far approved of the method which I am going to recommend, as to declare to me, not long before his death, his intention of giving it a fair trial. It is well known that our forefathers made ufe of injections for the cure of hydroceles, and this method is now not out of practice on the continent j but it is wonderful that a remedy which may be made to anfwer the intention of exciting inflammation to any de gree, and is attended with no inconveni- ence, prefent or future, fhould have fallen almoft into total difufe in this country: fome4-2 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE of the later Engliih writers on the hydrocele do not mention it; and if it be noticed by others, it is only to Ihevv their difappro- bation of it. Injections introduced within the tunica yaginalis teftis, into the urethra, or into any cavity of the body, natural or formed by dif- eafe, are certainly capable of doing mifchief; but the mifchief muft arife from the nature of the injection ; if it be violent and irritat- ing, it may produce too great inflammation. It is very probable that the cauftic, and highly ftimulating ingredients, which have been fometimes moft injudiciouily injected, and confined an unreafonable and an unne- ceffary length of time, have done harm, and have been the caufe of bringing injections in general, and for the cure of the hydrocele in particular, into difcredit; but it is extremely abfurd to infer, from fuch inftances, that all kinds of injection muft be pernicious: in the ufe of them we are not limited to any degree of ftimulus. Injections may be found fo bland, as not to offend the moft fenfiblc membrane or furface in the human body; on the other hand, they may be prepared fo corrcfive as to inflame, and even to dhTolve ~ the 4i BY MEANS OF AN INJECTION. 43 the mofr. indolent parts; and they be made to produce any intermediate effect. There is no kind of flimulus which admits of fuch various modifications. Another great advantage of' injections is, that they apply themfelves equally and uni- verfally over the whole cavity into which they'are thrown, which no folid body can do. ' ' J ' •••••• . j:. ■ • . . ... As I had frequently fucceeded in procuring ' an adhefion arid confolidation of parts in finufes and other large cavities, by injec- tions of various kinds, without caufmg great inflammation, and had by thofe means avoided, the neceffity of extenfive divifions of the fkin and integuments, which mould be avoided as > much^as poffible in every part, I conceived that the cure of hydroceles might be effected by the fame gentle means, without deranging, more than is neceffary, the economy of thofe tender and fenfible organs which are the feat of the difeafe, and I determined to malie the experiment. The injection I employed for this purpofe is wine, which 1 made choice of for feveral reafons; it had been ufed with fuccefs in France -} I had found it anfvver well in pro- curing44 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE curing adhefions in other parts : the ftrength of wine is never fo great as to render it an unfafe remedy, and it may be readily lower- ed, according to the different fenfibility of the parts. Thus a vinous injection appeared capable of producing all the good effects which could be defired, with fcarce a pof- Vibility of doing harm. The fuccefs which has attended it, has more than anfwered my expectation; and, from every trial I have made, I have no reafon to wifli for a dif- ferent one : the pain which is produced by it is incomparably lefs than by any other operation : it does nothing more than is in- tended, and the curative effect, as far as my experiments have gone, is equally certain. The following cafes contain a circumftan- ftial account of all the obfervations I have yet made upon it, which perhaps I have fomewhat haftily drawn up, that I might take the opportunity of inferting them in this edition, without any longer delaying its publication. CASE I. A man. about fifty years of age, was taken into St. Bartholomew's hofpital with a large hydroceleBY MEANS OF AN INJECTION* 45 hydrocele of many years {landing: June 21, 1787, in the prefence of Mr. Pott, I paffed into it a trochar, and let out a very large quantity of fluid of the ufual colour and confiftence ; I found the tunica vaginalis re- markably thickened and unpliable; to the feel not unlike tripe or buff leather: the tefticle was much larger than the natural fize. On confidering every circumftance, it appeared to be a very unfavourable cafe for any operation except the palliative : however, as I was defirous to try the effect, of in- jection, and there was no probability of doing mifchief, I filled it with port wine diluted with water in which red rofe leaves had been boiled. The man felt not the fmaliefr. pain : after retaining it a few minutes, I fuf- Fered it to be difcharged: the next 'day a fmall degree of inflammation had taken place 5 the third day from the operation it was increafed, and the whole fcrotnm con- fiderably fwollen : the patient continued ab- folutely free from pain and fever : by way of precaution, a poultice was applied, and he took an opening draught. On the fixth day the inflammation continued, the fcrotum much fwollen, the patient without any other complaint.4-0 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE complaint. In a few days the inflammation leffened, but the fcrotum was almoft as large as before the operation, and, to all appear- ance, it now contained a fluid. It feemed extraordinary that Water mould be again fecreted and collected in fo very fhort a time; yet, as it was not attended with any pain or inflammation, I concluded that it was poffible; and, being the firft attempt which I had made, I was rather inclined to think, with every one who had feen it, that the inje&ion had failed, and that there was a frefh accumulation of water. Accordingly it was agreed that the operation by the feton mould be performed. Saturday, July 8th, he was brought into the theatre for that purpofe; when, on examination, it ap- pearing to Mr. Pott and all who were pre- fent that the fize of the tumor was leflened, he was fent back to his ward. From that time the tumor continued gradually to diminifll till the tefticle was plainly perceptible, fur- rounded by the thickened tunica vaginalis: July 18, I examined with attention, and "found it not only perfectly free from any frefh accumulation of fluid, but the tef- ticle lefs in fize than when I firft let out theBY MEANS OF AN INJECTION. 47 the water, and the patient being well in every refpect, I difcharged him. On confidering all thefe circumftances, the reflections which fuggefted themfelves were, that if the method fucceeded fo well in this cafe, in which, from the fize of the tumor, the duration of it, and the thick- nefs of the vaginal coat, I had defpaired of effecting a cure, there was every thing to hope from it in more favorable and more re- cent ones, and that it appeared infinitely preferable, in every refpect, to any other operation I had ever feen attempted for the cure of hydroceles: no pain, no violent ir- ritation, nor fever fucceeded; a gentle inflam- mation only took place, attended with a moderate tumefaction, juft fufficient to pro- duce an adhefion of the tunica vaginalis to theteftis, without the tedious procefs of fup- puration, which, in fome degree, is always the confequence of any other operation. CASE II. • '. j ' The next cafe which occurred to me, was in June i^t^in the perfon of a gen- tleman, who flic wed me a hydrocele, which he4§ RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE? he faid had gradually been increafing during feveral months; the integuments were re- markably thin, and in every refpedt it was the reverfe of the cafe juft defcribed: he wifhed to have the radical cure performed, and it appeared a very good fubject for an operation. As he was a man of excellent un- demanding, and had applied his thoughts to mrgica) cafes, and more particularly to this which moft materially concerned himfelf, I defcribed to him all the different operations which have been recommended for the cure of it, and pointed out what appeared to me their advantages and difadvantages, that he might form fome judgment, and choofe which he would fubmit to. He decided in favour of injection. After having evacuated , about five ounces of yellowim fluid, the teftis felt full and larger than natural, but foft; I then threw in fome injection, more diluted than in the preceding cafe; he complained of fdme pain, on which account, after the injection had continued one minute, I fuf- fered it to be difcharged, and the pain foon ceafed; when, left I fhould not have done quite enough, I attempted to throw in fome more, but air had got into the fyiinge, and I was rather foiled ; however fome went in, on whichBY MEANS OF AN INJECTION. 49 which he again complained of pain, and I again difcharged it, and withdrew the cannula; he continued to feel a fmall degree of uneafi- nefs, and went to bed; I faw him again in the evening, when he told me the pain had gradually fubfided, and that he was then perfectly eafy : I ordered a fomentation and poultice to the part, and an opening draught. The next morning, a very gentle inflam- mation had taken place; the parts were moderately tumefied, and he felt very little .uneafinefs. The third day, being much the fame, he chofe to get up; the fourth day, encouraged by eafe and favourable accom- paniments, he very imprudently exerted himfelf in moving a heavy table, by which he brought on his pain again, and the fcro- tum looked larger and more inflamed. This frefh accefs was fortunately foon calmed, and the parts again gradually fubfided; and, though he continued to fit up, in nine days from the operation, the gland bore to - be examined as well as a found tefticle. In a few days after, the inflammation was en- tirely gone; and, what appeared a circum- ftancevery muchinfavour of this operation, as it is contrary to what happens after, I Vol. III. E believe50 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE believe I may fay every other operation for this complaint, the tefticle was become perceptibly, to the patient as well as to my- felf, fmaller than when I let out the water. Every one muft allow that after operations by which a folid foreign body is fuffered to remain within the tunica vaginalis, the teftis for a long time remains enlarged, owing to the great and unneceffary quantity of inflammation excited, and to the du- ration of it. A fluid may undoubtedly be made fo powerful, and retained fo long, as to produce the fame ill effects ; I muft therefore obferve, that the fuccefs of the method which I am defcribing, will probably be found to depend on two circumftances the mildnefs of the injection, and the very fbort fpace of time which I have proved to be fufficiertt for its retention. Finding himfelf perfectly well, he went to his country-houfe, where he caught cold, by remaining in his garden after rain, and had a very fevere attack of fever j but not- withftanding, the teftis continued perfectly quiet and eafy. May 2oth, in the following year, I had an opportunity of feeing him again ; ..when, on a careful examination of 6 theBY MEANS OF AN INJECTION 51 the parts, I was convinced that the teftis was become of its natural iize, that an adhefion had univerfally taken place between the tunics, and in fhort, that the cure was undoubtedly complete. I have had many opportunities of feeing him fince, and he remains perfectly well. CASE III. w November 23, a young man mewed me a fwelling of the fcrotum, of a few months duration, which I perceived to be a hydrocele, After proper evacuations, I determined to attempt the cure by injec- tion ; I drew off a large tea-cup of ffraw- coloured water, and found the teffis rather enlarged, as ufiial, but free from difeafe; I immediately filled the cavity with injection, which was kept in a couple of minutes; the patient complaining of fome pain moot- ing up to his loins; it was difcharged, and4 he went to bed. The next day I found him free from fever; he faid he had felt fome pain fimilar to what he had felt during the operation, but the inflammation was not E 2 mor©52 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE more than to be defired; the fcrotum gently diftended with a fcarlet blufh. I ordered a poultice and bag-trufs, and ad- vifed him, what I always recommend, not to fuffer the fcrotum to fall down between the thighs,, but to fupport it by a fmall pillow, or by keeping the knees clofe. The 26th, the inflammation was very moderate j he had no pain, nor had felt any fince the fecond day: it continued gently to increafe, and feemed about its height on the 28th, the fifth from the operation : and two days after it appeared to be gradually decreafing; the patient during the whole time being en- tirely free from pain. December 4, "the in- flammation was diminimed, the tumor about half its original fize. On the 10th, the feventeenth from the operation, all inflam- mation had left it, the adhefion of the membranes appeared complete, and the teftis in a perfectly quiet ftate. '[\ CASE IY. ■ On the fame day that I injected the laft mentioned hydrocele, another cafe, exactly fimilarBY MEANS OF AN INJECTION. 53 fimilar in every refpect, was put under my care ; the age of the man nearly equal; con- flitution, duration and lize of his com- plaint, as nearly refembling the other as poffible. To give a fair trial to both methods, I palfed a feton in this; the complaint pro- ceeded very well with moderate inflam- mation. The feton was gradually removed, thread by thread, as they became loofe ; in about ten days, the fcrotum began to lelTen and collapfe; a fmall abfcefs however was formed, the matter of which emptied itfelf by the lower orifice. On the whole, this cafe gave as little trouble, and ended as hap- pily as the mode of treating it, by intro- ducing and retaining a foreign body, gene- rally does. Bat I muft mod truly confefs that it did not feem comparable to the in- jection, by which means all accefs to air is denied : no difcharge is necefTary; the in- flammation is infinitely more moderate, the duration of it lefs, and no abfceffes are formed. CASE54 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE CASE V. March 12, 1788, in company with my ■efteemed friend, Mr. Pitts, I let out the water from the hydrocele of an elderly man, which had been tapped about five years be- fore. It appeared large before the operation ; but the quantity of water which was evacu- ated, and which meafured confiderably more than,a pint, proved the cavity to have been more capacious than we had apprehended. The tefticle was in a found ftete, very little larger than natural: I threw in fome injedion; the patient felt no pain, and fcarcely any extraordinary fenfation, which induced me to ufe the remainder of the injedtion of a ftronger quality, and to keep it in longer than ufual. I had not enough to fill the ca- vity 5 however, by handling and altering the pofition of the parts, I caufed it to be dif- fused over the whole cavity} and, as I have obferved, I confider it the chief excellence of this method, that we are enabled to irritate and affetf: every part equally, but moderately. From the capacity of the cavity, and the con- fequent improbability of the parts lying in contactBY MEANS OF AN INJECTION. 55 contact with each other, after having been fo largely diftended for fuch a length of time, I formed a very unfavourable prognoftic of the event. I faw him next morning; he faid he had perceived a flight pain in the afternoon, for about two hours, fince which he had been eafy : a fmall degree of inflam- mation and tumefaction had taken pofleffion of the part. The 14th (the fecond day after the operation) they were moderately in- creafedj I began, from the appearances, to have hopes of fuccefs, as the inflammation was juft as I wiihed: the 15th, appear- ances were fimilar to thofe of the day before: the 17th, the inflammation continued mode- rate and unattended with pain : the 20th (the eighth from the operation), the inflammation and tumefaction were lefs, and continued gradually fubfiding: he was foon after dis- charged well. I have had many opportuni- ties of feeing him fince, and he remains per- fectly fo. As I have mentioned, in the laft cafe, that I threw up the injection ftronger than ufual, I will take this opportunity to obferve, that I have commonly ufed about two thirds of wine to one third of water, if the parts ap- E 4 peared56 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE peared infenfible, and no pain at all was pro- duced by the firft quantity thrown in, I have withdrawn the fyringe, and added to the proportion of wine ; on the contrary, ir the complaint was recent, and the parts irritable, I have increafed the proportion of water; fo that I have hitherto been principally guided by the degree of fenfation which the patient has exprefied. I have lately ufed pure water, and found it anfwer as well as when aftrin- gents were added. The inftrument which I commonly ufe, is a pipe with a flop cock, which is made to fit into the cannula of a trochar, and to receive the beak of a fyringe of a moderate fize, •which may be applied and removed at plea- lure. I have fometimes ufed the vegetable bottle; but it has this inconvenience, that if it be not perfectly filled with the injec- tion, it will, by its elaftic power, draw in a quantity of air, which may prove very embarraiTing in the operation. CASE VI. The next cafe which came under my care, was a hydrocele in the perfon of a middle agedBY MEANS OF AN INJECTION, 57 aged man. Averfe to doing more than might be neceFary, though I had fucceeded fo well by injection, an external wafh being certainly more eafily applicable, I determined to give trial to that which had been recently recom- { mended. May 5, the tumor was wrapped in cloths, wet with a foiution of fal amoniac in acet. 6c fpt. vin.; after ufing it two days he complained fo much of inflammation and irritation, attended with darting pains in the fcrotum, that I was obliged to omit it for a day or two; after which time he ufed it lowered with a little water. May 27, after having continued this application nineteen days, I could find no fenhble difference in the iize or appearance of the tumor, except that the fk'm was corrugated and inflamed from the irritation of the application. May 30, no fenfible alteration: he continued to ufe it' with now and then a fmall interval, till the 22d of June, when, tired at finding no bene, fit, he would not lubmit to any other ope-, ration as was proposed to him, but chofe to leave the hofpital. CASE ....*... LJ58 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE CASE VII. An intelligent gentleman, who had been in the medical line in India, mewed me a hydrocele on each fide: we talked over all theufual modes of curing the complaint; but he did not feem fatisfied with either of them. I mentioned the folution of the fal amon. and recommended him to give it a fair trial. He accordingly applied it, as it is direded| but, as it happened in the inftance juft mentioned, it produced fo much inflam- mation, that he was obliged to defift: he afterwards ufed it for near three months, at the end of which period, May 31, 1789, he again mewed me the tumors j but there was po perceptible diminution in their fize. CASE VIII. Since thefe papers were written a gentle- man was introduced to me by Dr. Grieve, with a hydrocele, which had been treated with the fame difcutient, and which he had found fo painful that his furgeon was obliged to lower it: it was continued as flrong as he couldBY MEANS OF AN INJECTION. 50 could bear it during five weeks, when the water not being lelfened, was let out, after which the application was again made ufe of during the evacuated urate of the com- plaint; but it had not prevented the reaccu- mulation of the water. 1 do not mean, by thefe relations, to give a decided opinion on this method; I {imply and truly ftate the facts: in other cafes it might be more fuccefsful. CASE IX. November 5, 1788, I took a young man under my care, who had apparently a hydro- cele ; but it was one of thofe cafes of which, on account of the tightnefs, with which the coats enveloped the water; and from the thicknefs of the fcrotum, we could not posi- tively at once determine the nature; how- ever, as I concluded it to be a hydrocele, and, from its recent appearance, a favourable cafe, I immediately began to treat it with an external application of a folution of fal amon. but, after feventeen days, finding no kind of advantage, and the man being impatient and anxious60 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE anxious to return to his friends, I determined to ufe the injection. November 22, I let out about five ounces of clear fluid, found the teftis in a good ftate, though enlarged,, which, as I obferved, is frequently, I might fay generally, the cafe. 1 then filled the ca- vity with injedtion, in the prefencc of a num- ber of gentlemen, and kept it in a few mi- nutes; he complained of fo little pain, that I was apprehenfxve, and I believe all who were prefent concluded, that what I had done was to no purpofe; that is, that there would not be fufficient irritation to produce the ne- ceflary inflammation. He continued without pain the whole of that day and the next; the third day he was perfectly eafy ; but a gentle inflammation had taken pofTeflion of the whole icrotum, equal in every part: the 5-th day the inflammation continued as before, and the fvvelling was fo free from pain, that it had ftrongly the appearance of a frefli collec- tion of fluid j but, as this deception had feve- ral times occurred to me before, I did not the lefs expeft a cure. On the feventh day from the operation the appearances were very fimilar, the man void of pain, the fcrotum cently tumefied, from which time the fcro- b } turnBY MEANS OF AN INJECTION. 6l turn began to corrugate, and the tumor gra- dually to decreafe, till in lefs than three weeks it became of the fize of the tefticle, when the water was let out. I kept him in the houfe till the 21ft of December, to ob- ferve if any frefli accumulation took place, when, being perfectly well, he was dis- charged. CASE X. Mr. Pitts tapped a large hydrocele of a middle aged man j the tefticle was found larger and harder than ufual: he permitted me to throw in an injection, which, on ac- count of the fize and thicknefs of the parts, I had made rather ftronger than ufual, there was not quite enough to nil it; but I preffed it fo as to make it find its way over the whole cavity, and fuffered it to remain in fix mi- nutes. I did not fee him again till the fifth day; thefcrotum was confiderably inflamed, and tender to the touch. I directed him to remain in bed, and to apply a poultice made with extr.-faturn. the next day the inflam- mation was leflened, and he was free from pain, and the tumor begai: fubfide. There 3 is62 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE is fo great fimilarity in the progrefs of thefe cafes, that I have only to fay the inflame mation continued gradually to lefTen, and in lefs than a month the teftis was of its na- tural fize, and the man was difcharged. He has fince been in the hofpital for another complaint, and we have had opportunities of examining the part; the adhefion appears to have univerfally taken place, and con- fequently there is not the leaft veftige of the hydrocele. CASE XL February 7, 1789, I tapped a hydro- cele in the perfon of a young man, let out a moderate fize tea-cup of fluid, threw in the fame quantity of injection, and kept it in three minutes; the patient complained of fome pain mooting to- ward his back: the 9th, he had no pain; the inflammation very moderate; the 10th, no great alteration, but I obferved, what indeed I had often before remarked, that the fcrotum appeared diftcnded, as if again filling with water.. The inflammation con- tinued to proceed moderately, and gra-BY MEANS^OF AN INJECTION. 63 dually to fubfide. The patient was fo free from pain and every complaint, that he chofe to leave the houfe in lefs than three weeks; and, indeed, before the fwelling was quite gone, to follow his occupation of a tide-waiter. I have fince had many oppor- tunities of feeing him and examining the part; the adhefion appears perfect, and the difeafe completely cured. CASE xir. March 6th, 1789, I went with Mr. R. Croft, to fee a young man, who had a hydrocele on each fide. Mr. C. had once performed the palliative cure on the left, which was now filled again, and was much larger than the other. I let out a large quantity of fluid, and found the teftis in a good ftate, though larger than natural. I introduced fufficient inje&ion to diftend the bag, and kept it in four minutes; the man com- plained of fome pain when it was firft thrown in, but was perfectly eafy before the four minutes were expired. I then pro- ceeded to evacuate the other; but, as the quantity64 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE quantity of water was fmall, and I could not fafely introduce the iriftrumcnt which I ge- nerally ufe for the purpofe of inje&ing, I contented myfelf with emptying it by means of a fmall trochar, and found the teftis large in proportion to the fize of the tumor; I withdrew the cannula, and left it to take the chance of what might follow from partaking of the neighbouring inflammation which I expected to take place. Mr. C, faw him the next day* and gave me an account that he had rifen, and was walking about the room, and that the parts were beginning to fwell. As this was greater liberty than I had yet given, I begged he might immedi- ately go to bed and have a poultice applied. I vifited him next day, and found more in- flammation than I had ever feen after, this operation : and, what appeared extraordinary and fortunate, the fide which had not been injected was almoft as much inflamed as the other i but he complained not of the fmall- eftpain in either. The 14th, I law him again; he continued free from pain, and the inflammation was very much abated. The fide which had not been injefted appeared lefs likely to diminifh than the other; and theBY MEANS OF AN INJECTION. 65 the apparent feel of fluid which I obferved often follows, was more than ufually per- ceptible^ On the 20th, (a fortnight from the operation) the fide on which the in- jection had been ufed, was perfectly well j in the other, the water was evidently collecting very faft ; which demonftrates how little effect external inflammation may have when it is to act through the fcrotum and tunica vaginalis, and points out the greater certainty which follows the application of the fti- mulus to the inlide of the cavity; in this cafe, notwithstanding the water was evacuated, and a much more confiderable inflammation was raifed on the fcrotum than could have been caufed by almoft any external ap- plication, no internal effect was produced. I took leave of him, recommending him to do nothing farther till it was fufficiently full to be treated in the fame manner. CASE XIII. Mr. Croft continued to lee him from time to time, and gave me an account that the fide which had been injected, remained perfeaiy well, but that the other was larse. Vol. III. p and66 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE and he wifhed me to perform the fame oper- ation on it. May the 2d, I examined it, and found the left fide perfectly well, and free from water the right diftended, but not very large. I plainly, through the water, difcover- ed that the teftis was larger than it ought to be; and it was not without great care that I was able to pafs in the trocar without in- juring it: I let out about five ounces of fluid, and treated it like the other. I faw him two days after; he faid he had patted a reftlefs night, and the part was more in- flamed and tumefied than ufual; on in- quiry, I found he had eaten a dinner of roaft beef and drank porter, which readily accounted for it. By taking a little opening medicine and ufing a lower regimen, in two days the tumor was lefs, the inflammation more moderate. In about the ufual time he got well; and, I have been informed, he con- tinues perfectly free from any complaint on either fide. CASE XIV. May 16, 1789, I let out about five ounces ©f a draw-coloured fluid from the hydrocele ofBY MEANS OF AN INJECTION, 6j of a young man, and threw in an injection; he complained of pain during the firft three minutes, when he grew eafy; in five minutes the injection was difcharged. This pro- ceeded, in every refpect, like thofe I have related, with a very moderate inflamma- tion, which decreafed gradually. He has fince applied to me, with a venereal fwelling in both his teftes; which, by means of mercurial frictions in the internal parts of his thighs, are both decreafing, but there is not the fmalleft fign of his ever having had water in either. CASE XV. In the autumn of the fame year, a gentle- man came from Barbadoes on purpofe to be cured of a large hydrocele. With his con- fent, I intended to ufe the method by injec- tion ; but, at the inftant when I had paffed in the trocar, with a violent involuntary motion of his body, he forced it out with the cannula, by which accident a fmall quantity of water only followed through the external orifice, but a confiderable portion- efcaped F 2 from68 RADICAL CURE OF THE HYDROCELE from the tunica vaginalis, and infinuated itfelf into the cellular membrane of the fcrotum, making a large fwelling, which put a total Hop to the intended operation. As his time was limited, and he was'anxious to return, he preffed me to perform immedi- ately the operation by incifion, or by any other method; however I perfuaded him to wait a fortnight, by which time the extrava- fated fluid was nearly abforbed; but, as the quantity which remained in the tunica vagi- nalis was fmall, and confequently the cavity was become lefs capacious ; and as he was fo particularly circumftanced with regard to leaving this country, I did not chufe to try the injeaion,'but there being juft fufficient room for the inftrument to pafs fafely, I per- formed the operation by the feton. This cafe terminated well, and the gen- tleman is returned perfeftly cured, but it was attended in its progrefs with an abfcefs, the confequence of a much greater degree of inflammation than I have ever experienced from the ufe of injeaion, and indeed abun- dantly more than was neceffary for the cure. The accident by which the inftrument was forced out, may ferve as a caution, and pointBY MEANS OF AN INJECTION. 69 point out the propriety of placing the pa- tient againft a table, or upon a conch, or in any lituation in which it will not be in his power to recede. CASE XVI. About the fame time I injected the hy- drocele of an Irifh gentleman, aged 30: he felt little pain while the injection was in ; the next day, the inflammation was mode- rate, and proceeded in a gentle manner, with fcarcely any variation from moft of thofe cafes in which I had ufed injection, and whofe progrefs I have defcribed; it is therefore unnecefTary to take up more of the reader's time in particularizing the fymptoms. It is probable, that this method, like others, may fometimes prove defective; but I can truly aflert, that it has not yet failed in any cafe in which I have tried it; further experiments will give the ftandard of its value: however there is one merit which I may venture to fay it poflefles, fuperior to any others that the inflammation which is F 3 excitedJO RADICAL CURE, &C. excited, is fo gentle, if it mould not fucceed, it can do no harm ; and if a frefh accumu- lation of fluid mould take place, we are not prevented from another trial by injection, by the feton, by the cauftic, or by any other method which may be recommended, equally, and to all intents and purpofes, as if nothing had been attempted. I have only to remark, that though in the courfe of thefe obfervations I have fpoken of the adhefion between the tunics, as an eftabliihed fad, no opportunity has occurred to me of examining, by dilTection, the teites which have been thus cured j I do not, therefore, conceive the adhefion to be, as yet, fully afcertained, though extremely pro- bable : it would be fatisfactory to determine this point, though the utility of the remedy does not in the leaft depend on it, and ap- pears to be fufficiently proved by the above cafes j for whether the abforbing powers are only flimulated to act fo as to reduce the abundant fecretion to its natural quantity, or whether an actual adhefion takes place, the cure of the complaint is equally effeded. A TREATISE( *69 ) In the foregoing CAS ES IL'and III. (on ^.47 and 51) /or ljjjjhould be read 1787. The correclion of this error of the prefs gives me an opportunity to obferve that fince thefe meets were printed I have ufed the in- jection in other cafes ; but as their progrefs, and the fuccefs which has attended them, as far as the time of probation permits us to judge, were in every refpecl: fimilar to thofe which I have related, I fhall not enter into a detail of them; only I will remark, that having ufed it February 26 on the gentleman mentioned in Case VIII, the inflammation which was produced was fo moderate that he would not fubmit to be confined, but in two or three days after the operation, notwithftanding the teftis was evidently inflamed and larger than natural, went out and took his ufual exercife. This brought on fo much fwelling as made Vol. Ill, him( *7° ) him content to flay at home a fortnight, dur- ing which time it increafed in fize and gra- dually leffened, but at no time was at all painful, unlefs it was handled. Though, from the little attention paid to it at firft, the tumefaction in this cafe had been rather ob- ftinate, it was, March 18th, fo nearly fub- fided, that, he went out of town, with every appearance of the accomplifhment of a perfed cure. I may now add, April 9th, that I have feen him frnce his return, and there is no appearance of his ever having had a hydrocele.TREATISE ON T H S FISTULA inANO.PREFACE. It has been faid, that when a man thinks that he can, by publifhing his opinion, derive any benefit to his fellow- creatures, he has no reafon to be anxious about making an apology for fuch publication. This, within a certain limitation, is true j but, taken in its full extent, may be urged as an excufe for obtruding that on the world which may not be worth its acceptance. Eoffibly the following flieets may be thought to come within that predicament. The only defence I have to make for them is, that from the moft diligent and moft frequent inquiry into the general method of treating the difeafe in queftion, I am convinced, that fuch method may be confiderably improved; that is, may be rendered Jefs painful, more expeditious, and more fuccefsful. I mould be very forry to have it thought, that I meant, by this, to fignify, that my opinion on this fubjecT: is dif- ferent from that of all my brethren: 1 know it is not j I know that there are fbme gentlemen of the profeflion who think of it as I do: but I alfo know, that a very different dodVine is inculcated, and a very different method followed, by the majority of writers, practitioners, and teachers. The74 PREFACE. The number of thofe who have had frequent oppor- tunities of feeing this kind of difeafe, is not large, compared to that of thofe who are daily liable to be called to the care of it: the number of thofe who reflect on what they fee or read, and who take the liberty of thinking for themfelves, is ftill fmaller j fo that the precepts delivered by fuch as have obtained any degree of reputation, do almoft neceffarily become rules of practice to the multitude. I have, on this occafion, carefully perufed almoft every writer of character on the fubject; and think, that I may venture to fay, that they are all either defective, or errone- ous : they either pafs the difeafe over flightly, and without that regard which it certainly requires and deferves ; or fubject it to a method of cure, which is operofe, painful, tedious, and unneceffarily productive of future evil. The term Cutting for a Fiftula, conveys to a patient a terrible idea; and this terror is not a little increafed by his incapacity of feeing the part difeafed. The majority of writers have greatly increafed, rather than leffened, this dread: and as the operation is (under their direftions) fometimes performed, it is, indeed, a very fevere one: a great part of this feverity appears to me to be unneceffary ; and I cannot help thinking, that a more ferious reflection on the parts concerned in the difeafe, and on its different nature in different ftates and circumftances, would lead us to a more rational method of treating it, and to a more eafy and expeditious cure, ToPREFACE. 75 To point fuch method out is the intention of the follow- ing TracT:. In the execution of it, I have fometimes found myfelf under a neceflity of controverting the opinion of fome gentlemen of deferved eminence : if I -have done this with decency and good manners, no apology is necefiary. The honour of our art, and the moral characters of its profeflbrs fuffer, whenever we pay fo blind deference to any one, as prevents us from ufing our >own judgments, and from declaring freely the refults of our inquiries or experiments. Truth, as Lord Bacon has faid, is not the child of authority, but of time. And were we to allow ourfelves to fuppofe, (let the fubjecl be what it may, provided it be liable to experiment) that nothing more, or new, could be taught, it is pretty clear, that nothing more or new would be learned. I therefore hope, that the freedom which I have ufed, either in relating the opinions, or in objeaing to the prac- tice of others, will not be attributed to an invidious difT pofition to find fault; but merely to a defire of being fer- viceable to mankind in that way, in which, I flatter my- felf, that I may be in fome degree capable; and of im- proving, as much as in me lies, the very necefiary, and univerfally ufeful Science of SURGERY. FISTULA[ 77 ] FISTULA in ANO. SECT. I. Clear and precife definitions of- difeafes^ and the application of fuch names to them as are expreffive of their true and real nature, are of more confequence than they are gene- rally imagined to be: untrue or imperfect ones occafion falfe ideas; and falfe ideas are generally followed by erroneous practice. It would be no difficult matter to produce inftances of diforders, whofe treatment has, for a great length of time, been accommo- dated more to the titles impofed upon them, than to their true and real character : amonj thefe my prefent fubject is a moft glaring proof. The cuftom of giving the appellation of Fiftula to every impoftumation, and to every collection of matter formed near to the anus, has, by conveying a falfe notion of them, been78 A TREATISE Of* been produ&ive of fuch methods of treating them, as (though, perhaps, fuited to fuch idea) are diametrically oppofite to thofe which ought to be purfued: fuch as have often rendered thofe cafes tedious and painful, which might have been cured eafily and ex- peditioufly : and confequently fuch as have brought difgrace on our art, and unneceflary trouble on mankind. A fmall orifice or outlet from a large or deep cavity, difcharging a thin gleet, or fa- mes, made a confiderable part of the idea, which our anceftors had of a fftulous fore, wherever feated. "With the term nftulous, they always connected a notion of callofity: and, therefore, whenever they found fuch a kind of opening yielding fuch fort of dif- charge, and attended with any degree of in- duration, they called the complaint a Fiftula. Imagining this callofity to be a difeafed alter- ation made in the very ftrudture of the parts, they had no conception that it could be cured by any means, but by removal with a cut- ting inftrument, or by deftruclion with efcharotics: and, therefore, they immediately attacked it with knife or cauftic, in order to accomplim one of thefe ends: and very terri- bleTHE FISTULA IN A'NO. Jg ble work (by their own accounts) they often made, before they did accomplifh it. Several of the above-mentioned circum- flances do frequently attend collections of matter near to the re&um ; and therefore for want of proper attention to the true nature of the cafe, the cuftom of calling them all Fiftulae has generally prevailed, though without any foundation in truth or nature. That abfceffes, formed near the fundament, do fometimes, from bad habits, from extreme negleft, or from grofs miftreatment, become fiftulous, is certain; but the majority of them have not, at firft, any one charader or mark of a true fiftula; nor can, without the moft lupine neglecT: on the fide of the patient, or' the moR ignorant mifmanagement on the part of the furgeon, degenerate, or be con- verted into one. Colledions of matter from inflammation (wherever formed) if they be not opened in time, and in a proper manner, do often burft. The hole, through which the matter finds vent, is generally finally and not often fituated in the moll: convenient, or moft de- pendent; part of the tumor; it therefore 3 is8o A TREATISE ON is unfit for the difcharge of all the con- tents of the abfcefs; and, inftead of clofing, contracts itfelf to a fmaller fize, and becom- ing hard at its edges continues to drain off what is furnifhed by the undigested fides of the cavity. This is often the cafe in the raoft mufcu- lar, or fleihy parts of the body, where the cellular and adipofe membrane does not abound; but is more particularly fo in the neighbourhood of the anus, where that mem- brane is large in quantity, well Stocked with fat, and not compreffed by the aftion of any large or ftrong mufcles. Why critical defluxions and abfceffes are frequently formed in this part, is fo obvious to every one, who confiders its natural Struc- ture, that it muft be quite unnecefTary to enter into an explanation of it: I mail there- fore only obferve, that when it becomes the feat of fuch kind of defluxion, it can make little or no refiftance; but immediately fwells, and becomes hard to a confiderable extent: and although impoftumation is very fre- quently the confequence, yet the induration extending itfelf a good way beyond the bounds of the abfcefs, the fir ft fuppuration.is 6 byTHE FISTULA IN ANO. 8l by no means equal to the dirTolution of fuch hardnefs ; efpecially, if inftead of being opened properly, the fldn , has been fuffered to burft. The fmallnefs of this accidental orifice; the hardnefs of its edges; its being found to be the outlet from a deep cavity; the daily difcharge of a thin, gleety, difcoloured kind of matter; and the induration of the parts round about, have all contributed to raife and confirm the idea of a true fiftula. To this idea, the general treatment of thefe cafes has therefore been made to accord: upon this, has been built the prevailing doc- , trine of free excifion, or as free deftru&ion, without any regard to the original production of the complaint, its particular feat, its date., or any other attendant circumftances ; and without examining, whether it would not admit a more eafy and a more expeditious method of cure. In mprt, this notion, that all fmufes near the rectum are neceffarily flftu- lous, has occafioned the pfefcription of fuch a manner of treating them, from their very.firit appearance, as they can hardly ever ftand in need of at any time; and a mere ill-founded fuppofition, that the induration of the parts Vol. III. G aboutA "TREATISE Off about may be owing to a difeafed callofity, is urged as a reafon for ufing them with more feverity than even fuch ftate would require. SECT. II. Whoever would obtain a true notion of the difeafe in queftion, muft eonfider it under all the forms in which it makes its appear- ance. Thefe, which are many and various, (both with regard to afped, fituation, and fymptoms) are what mew the different na- ture of the complaint in different ftates, and are the circumftances which ought to regu- late.a furgeon's conduct in the care of it. Sometimes the attack is made with fymp- toms of high inflammation; with pain, fever, riaor, &c. and the abfcefs proves truly cri- tical ; that is, it becomes a folution of the fever. In this cafe, a part of the buttock near to the anus is confiderably fwollen, and has a Were circumfcribed hardneis. In a lhort time,THE FISTULA IN ANO. 83 the middle of this hardnefs becomes red, and. inflamed; and in the center of it matter is formed. This (in the language of our anceitors) is called in general a Phlegmon; but when it appears in this particular part, a Phyma. The pain is fometimes great, tKe fever nigh, the tumor large, and exquifitely tender i but however difagreeable the appearances may have been, or however high the fymptoms may have rifen, before fuppuration, yet, when that end is fairly and fully accom- plimed, the patient generally becomes eafy and cool ; and the matter formed Under fuch circumftances, though it may be plentiful, yet is good. On the other hand, the external parts, after much pain, attended with fever, fick- nefs, &g. are fometimes attacked with con- fiderable inflammation, but without any of that circumfcribed hardnefs, which charao terifed the preceding tumor; inftead of which, the inflammation is extended largely and the ftin wears an eryfipelatous kind of an ap- pearance. In this the difeafe is more fuper- fcial; the quantity of matter fmall, and the. G 2 cellular84 A TREATISE ON cellular membrane floughy to a corifiderable extent. Sometimes, inftead of either of the pre- ceding appearances, there is formed in this part, what the French call une fuppuration gangreneufe ; In which the cellular and adi- pofe membrane is affected in the fame man- ner,-as it is in the difeafe called a Carbuncle. - In this cafe, the ikin is of a dulky red or purple kind of colour; and although harder than when in a natural ftate, yet it has, by no means, that degree of tenfion or refinance,- which it has either in the phlegmon, or in the eryfipelas. The patient has generally, at firft, a hard, full, jarring pulfe, with great thirft, and very fatiguing refileffnefs. If the progrefs of the difeafe be not flopped, or the patient relieved by medicine, the pulfe foon changes into an un- equal, low, faultering one ; and the ftrength and the fpirits fink in fuch manner, as to imply great and immediately-impending mif- chief. The matter formed under the Ikin, i'o altered, is fmall in quantity, and bad in quality; and the adipofe membrane is gan- grenous and floughy throughout the extentTHE FISTULA IN ANO. 85 of the difcolouration. This generally hap- pens to perfons, whofe habit is either natur- ally bad, or rendered fb by intemperance. In each of thefe different affections, the whole malady is often confined to the ikin and cellular membrane underneath it; and no other fymptoms attend, than the ufual gene- ral ones, or fuch as arife from the formation of matter or floughs in the part immediately affected. But it alfo often happens, that, added to thefe, the patient is made unhappy by complaints arifing from an influence, which fuch mifchief has on parts in the neighbour- hood of the difeafe; fuch as the urinary blad- der, the vagina, the urethra, the hasmorr- hoidal vefTels, and the rectum; producing retention of urine, ftrangury, dyfury, bear- ing down, tenefmus, piles, diarrhoea, or ob- ffinate coftivenefs: which complaints are fometimes fo preffing, as to claim all our at- tention. On the other hand, large quanti- ties of matter, and deep floughs are fome^ times formed, and great devaftation com- mitted on the parts about the rectum, with little or no previous pain, tumor, or inflam- mation. Sometimes the difeafe makes its firft ap- * Q 3 pearance00 A TREATISE ON pearance in an induration of the fkin, near to the verge of the anus, but without pain or alteration of colour; which hardnefs gradually foftens and fuppurates. The matter, when let out, in this- cafe, is fmall in quantity, good in quality j and the fore is fuperficial, clean, and .well-conditioned. On the contrary, it now and then happens, that although the pain is but little, and the inflammation apparently flight, yet the matter is large in quantity, bad in quality, extremely orlenfive, and proceeds from a deep crude hollow, which bears an ill- natured afpe6l, The place alfo where the abfcefs points, and where the matter, if let alone, would burfl its way out, is various and uncertain. Sometimes it is in the buttock, at a dif- tance from the anus at other times near its verge, or in the perineum: and this difcharge is made fometimes from one orifice only, fometimes from feveral. In fome cafes, there is not only an opening through the fkin exfrnally, hut another through the ipteftine into its cavity: in others, there is only one orifice, and that either external, or internal. SometimesTHE FISTULA IN A NO. $7 Sometimes the matter is formed at a con- siderable diftunce from the rectum, which is not even laid bare by it; at others, it is laid bare only, and not perforated: it is alfo fometimes not only denuded, but pierced * and that in more places than one. The original feat of the mhehief is, in fome cafes, high up in the pelvis, -near the lower vertebrae of the loins, and the os facrum; and the matter comes from parts fo dif- eafed, and fo out of reach, that the cafe is hopelefs from the firft. Thefe difcharges are to fome perfons falutary, and prove folutions of general difeafes, which have long infefted the habit: to others, they often prove fatal, by exhaufting the fmall remains of ftrength. If the difeafe has its founda- tion in the lues venerea (which is not a very uncommon cafe) it frequently com- municates with the urethra, and neck of the bladder, producing great difturbance and mifery to the patient. And fometimes it happens, that fiilulous openings, near the anus, give difcharge to a fanies, proceeding from a cancerous ftate of fome of the parts within the pelvis. Whoever attends to this variety of Itates G 4 and°° A TREATISE ON and crrcumftances, rauft be convinced, that no one particular method can fuit them all, but that in this, as in many other cafes, the furgeon's conduct muft be varied occasionally, and adapted to the exigencies of each individual. SECT. III. It very feldom happens, when inflam-* matory defluxions are made on the cel- lular membrane furrounding the inteftine reclum, that it is in our power to prevent the formation of matter; nor, if it was, would it often be right fo to do; as thefe abfcelfes feldom happen to any body, to whom they are not, at leaft, a temporary relief. All conlideration, therefore, of that kind is generally out of the queftion: and our bufmefs, if called to it at the begin- ning, muft be to moderate the fymptoms; to forward the fuppuration; when the matter is formed, to let it out; and tp $reat the fore in fuch a manner, as fjiall beTHE FISTULA IN ANG. 89 be molt likely to produce a fpeedy and lafting cure. When there are no fymptoms which require particular attention, and all that we have to do is to affift the maturation of the tumor, a foft poultice is the belt, appli- cation. When the difeafe is fairly of the phlegmonoid kind, the thinner the Ikin is fuffered to become, before the abfcefs be ppened, the better $ as the induration of the parts about will thereby be the more dhTolved, and, confequently, there will be the lefs to do after fuch opening Jias been made. This kino" of tumor, is generally found in people of full, fanguine habits^ and who, therefore, if the pain be great, and the fever high, will bear evacuation, both by phlebotomy, and gentle cathartics: which is not often the cafe of thofe, who are faid to be of bilious conftitutions; in whom the inflammation is of larger extent, and in which the fkjn wears the yellowifh tint of the eryfipelas j perfons of fuch kind of habit, and in fuch circumftances, being in general feldom capable of bearing large evacuation. The obfervation is general, witji regard90 A TREATISE ON to eryfipelatous inflammations in any part of the body, and is by no means confined to this. I may, poffibly, be cenfured, for flap- ping out of my way to mention it; but it is a truth of fo much importance to many, and I have feen fuch melancholy inftances from its being not known, or not attended to, that my intention muft plead my excufe. This kind of inflammation (I mean the eryfipelatous) generally makes its attack with naufea, vomiting, flight rigor, heat, thirft, and reftleflhefs. The quicknefs of pulfe, and heat of fkin, are indications for fome degree of evacuation, and indeed fometimes render it requifite; but it is a very prevailing opinion with many practitioners, that thefe evacuations mould be freely made, and fre- quently repeated: in fhort, that the cure of this kind of inflammation is fafely to be effe&ed by them; which is fo far from being true, that the pra&ice has proved fatal to many. If, for inftance, blood be drawn off in fuch quantity as that the patient's pulfe finks fuddenly, or if his ftrength be confiderably reduced by purging, it is no veryTHE FISTULA IN ANO. 9! very uncommon thing for the inflammation to leave the part flrfr. affected, and for fuch complaints to come on immediately, as foon prove deftruclive, and afford no op- portunity to repair the mifchief which the evacuation has produced. When the inflammation is of this kind, the quantity of matter formed is final!, compared to the fize and extent of the tumor j the difeafe is rather a floughy, putrid ftate of the cellular membrane, than an impoftumation; and therefore, the fooner it is opened, the better: if. we wait for the matter to make a point, we (hall wait for what will not happen; at leaff not till after a confiderable length of time: during which, the difeafe in the membrane will extend itfelf, and, confe- quently, the cavity of the fin us, or abfcefs, be thereby greatly increafed. When, inftead of either of the preceding appearances, the fkin wears a dulky, pur- plifh-red colour; has a doughy, unrefifi- ing kind of feel, and is very little fen- fible: when thefe circumftances are joined with an unequal, faultering kind of pulfe, irregular fhiverings, a great failure of ftrength and92 A TREATISE ON and fpirits, and inclination to dofe, the cafe is formidable, and the event generally fatal. The habit, in thefe circumftances, is always bad fometimes from nature, but much more frequently from gluttony and intemperance. What affiflance art can lend, mud be adminiftered fpeedilyj every minute is of confequence; and if the dif- eafe be not Hopped, the patient will fink. Here is no need for evacuation of any kind : recourfe muft be immediately had to me- dical afliftance; the part affected mould be frequently fomented with hot fpjrituous fomentations large and deep incifion mould be made into the difeafed part; and the applications made to it mould be of the warmed, moll: antifeptic kind. This alfo is a general kind of obferva- tion, and equally applicable to the fame fort of difeafe in any part of the body. Our ancestors have thought fit to call it in fome a Carbuncle, and in others by other names; but it is (wherever feated) really and truly, a gangrene of the cellular and adipofe mem- brane ; it always implies great degeneracy of habit, and, moft commonly, ends ill. Strangury,I THE FISTULA IN ANO. 93 Strangury, dyfury, and even total reten- tion of urine, are no very uncommon at- tendants upon abfceffes forming in the neighbourhood of the rectum and bladder; more efpecially, if the feat of them be near the neck of the latter. They fometimes continue from the firft attack of the inflammation, until the matter is formed, and has made its way outward; and fometimes laft a few hours only. The two former moft commonly are eafily relieved by the lofs of blood, and the ufe of gum arable, with nitre, 6cc. But the laft (the total retention) is, (while it continues) both fatiguing and alarming.— They who have not often feen this cafe, generally have immediate recourfe to the catheter; and for this they plead the au- thority of precept: but the pra&ice is fo elfentially wrong, and I have feen fuch terrible conferences from it, that I cannot help entering my proteft again ft it. The neck of the bladder, from its vi- cinity to the parts where the inflammation is feated, and from its being involved in the fame common membrane, does cer- tainly participate, in fome degree, of the faid^4- A TREATISE ON faid inflammation. This will, in fbme meafure, account for the complaint; but whoever confiders the extremely irritable ftate of the parts compofing that part of the urethra, (if I may be allowed fo to call it) and will, at the fame time, reflect on the amazing and well-known efFe&s of irritation, will be convinced that the principal part of this complaint arifes from that caufe and that the difeafe is, ftrictly fpeaking, fpafmodic* The manner in which an attack of this kind is generally made; the very little diftention which the bladder often fuffers; the fmall quantity of urine fometimes contained in it, even when the fymptons are moft preffingj and the moft certain, as well as fafe, method of relieving it; all tend to ftrengthen fuch opinona. But whether we attribute the evil to in- flammation, or to fpafmodic irritation, what- a Great and acute as the pain is in the neck of the bladder* and about the pubes, in a retention of urine* it is not greater* nor more acute, than is fometimes felt in the fame parts by thofe in whofe bladder no urine is to be found, and in whom the ca- theter may be palfed with very little trouble or refinance. Tim complaint, which I have more than two or three times feen, is truly fpafmodic ; and, accordingly, always gives way to opium, more efpccially if ufedin the form of glyIter. everTriE FISTULA IN ANO. ever can, in any degree, contribute to the exafperation of either, mull: be palpably and manifeftly wrong. The violent paffage of the catheter through the neck of the bladder (for violent in fuch circumftances it muft be) can never be right. I will not fay that it never fucceeds; but I will fay, that it can hardly ever be proper to make the attempt. If the inftrument be fuccefsfully intro- duced, it muft either be withdrawn as foon as the bladder is emptied, or it muft be left in it: if the former be done, the fame caufe of retention remaining, the fame effect returns ; the fame pain and violence muft again be fub- mitted to, under (moft likely) increafed dif- ficulties. On the other hand, if the catheter be left in the bladder, it will often, while its neck is in this ftate, occafion fuch diftur- bance, that the remedy (as it is called) will prove an exafperation of the difeafe, and add to the evil it is defigned to alleviate : nor is this all; for the refiftance which the parts, while in this ftate, make, is fometimes fo great, that if any violence be ufed, the inftru- ment will make for itfelf a new rout in the neighbouring parts, and lay the foundation of fuch mifchief as frequently bafHes all our art.9$ A TREATISE ON att.—An accident, which I have known hap- pen to thofe whofe judgment and dexterity have never been doubted. The true, fafe, and rational method of re- lieving this complaint.is by evacuation and anodyne relaxation: this not only procures immediate eafe, but does, at the fame time, ferve another very material purpofei which is that of maturating the abfcefs. Lofs of blood is neceffary j the quantity to be de- termined by the ftrength and ftate of the pa- tient : the interlines mould alfo be emptied, if there be time for fo doing, by a gentle ca-* thartic; but the mofr. effectual relief will be from the warm bath, or femicupium, the ap- plication of bladders with hot water, to the pubes and perineum, and, above all other re- medies, the injection of glyfters, confirming of warm water, oil, and opium. There may have been cafes which have refilled and baf- fled this method of treatment; but I have never met with them. On the other hand, I have feen fo great and permanent mifchief from the premature ufe of the catheter, that it would have been better for the patient to have funk under the faff, evil, than to have lived to experience that 3 varietyTHE FISTULA IN ANO. 97 variety of mifery, to which all they are fub- jecl: who are afflicted with a difeafed or injured neck of the bladder. A painful tenefmus is no uncommon atten- dant upon an inflammatory defluxion on the parts about the rectum. The frequent ufe of the mufcles, whofe office it is to expel from the gut whatever is troublefome to it, and by whofe adion, the parts which make the feat of the difeafe muft be continually compreff- ed, make this, while it lafts, a very difagree- able complaint. If a dofe of rhubarb, joined with a warm anodyne, fuch as the conf. mithrid. or fuch like does not remove it, the inje&ion of thin ftarch and opium, or tine}, thebaic, is almoft infallible. The bearing-down, as it is called, in fe- males, as it proceeds, in this cafe, from the fame kind of caufe (viz. irritation) admits relief from the fame means as the tenefmus. In fome habits, an obfiinate coftivenefs at- tends this kind of inflammation, accompanied, not unfrequently, with a painful diftention and enlargement of the hemorrhoidal veffels, both internally and externally. While a quantity of hard faeces are detained within Vol. HI. h the 1. -9^ A TREATISE ON the large interlines, the whole habit rauft be difordered; and the fymptomatic fever, which neceflarily accompanies the formation of matter, rauft be confiderably heightened. And while the verTels furrounding the rectum (which are large and numerous) are diftend- ed, all the ills proceeding from preffure, in- flammation, and irritation, rauft be increaf- ed. This is too obvious to need any explan- ation : and it muft be as obvious, that phle- botomy, laxative glyfters, and a low, cool regimen, muft be the remedies; while a foft cataplafm applied externally ferves to relax and mollify the fwollen, indurated piles, at the fame time that it haftens the fuppur- Thefe are, I think, the moft material of the complaints which attend inflammatory defluctions and formations of matter about ■ the anus and rectum. They are indeed moft of them fymptomatic, or acceffory to the original difeafe; but they are frequently of inch immediate confequence to the eafe, and fometimes even to the fafpty of the perfon afflicted, that they require all our attention. Whoever neglects or miftreats them, will caufe his patient to fuffer a great deal of nn- neceflaryTHE FISTULA IN ANO. 09 necelfary painy fatigue, and even hazard: whoever attends to, and treats them pro- perly, will find that by relieving and appealing thefe accidental ills, he will affift the cure of the principal complaint> and gain time3 inftead of loling it; SECT. IV. Let us now conlider this difeafe, when the firft fymptoms attending the inflamma- tion are gone off, and matter is either form- ed and collected, in fuch manner as to be fit for a furgeori to give difcharge to it: or (that opportunity having been avoided or neglected,) it has burft through the parts Containing it, and has made its own way out. The different ftates and cireumftances produced either by the collection of this matter, or by the manner in which it has made its efcape, will neceffarily occahon a difference in the manner of treating the cafe; and may, for method-fake, as well as for the more perfectly understanding the true nature H 2 <rf100 A TREATISE ON of the difeafe, be reduced to two general heads, viz. f. Thofe, In which the interline is not at all interefted; and, 2. Thole in which it is either laid bare, or perforated. Let us firft fuppofe the matter to be fairly formed ; to have made its point, as it is called; and to be fit to be let out. Where fuch point is, that is, where the fkin is moft thin, and the fluctuation moft palpable, there the opening moft certainly ought to be made. Some of our predecefTors, either from a fear which almoft neceffarily accompanies tlie want of anatomical knowledge, or from an aukwardnefs attending the difufe of a cutting inftrument, adopted the method of opening thefe (as well as moft other abfcefles) by cauftic. With all due deference to authority, I will venture to fay, that it is in general wrong; and particularly fo in the prefent cafe. It often gives unnecefTary pain; and it pro- duces a lofs of fubftancc, and a kind of cicatrix,THE FISTULA IN ANO. IOI cicatrix, which is not only unfeemly, but frequently proves a lading inconvenience. Some of the patrons of potential fire do, indeed, give a fpecious kind of reafon for its ufe; viz. that it makes a more large and free opening for the difcharge; and that, by the time the efchar is feparated, the hollow underneath is generally more than .half filled up. In a few (very few) particular cafes, where the deftruclion of glandular parts may become neceflary, after the efchar is thrown off, (as in the cafe of venereal bubos) there may be fome force in this argument, and cauftics may be found ufeful; but in the prefent cafe, and in moft others, in which they are freely and frequently applied, they appear to me to be highly improper; as they neceffarily occafion a lofs of parts, and a kind of efchar, which is, in general, an indelible blemifh, to fay no worfe. And with regard to the particular circumftance of the hollow being filled almoft up, by the time the efchar is feparated, if the furgeon will drefs an abfcefs, opened by incifion, in the fame eafy, fuperficial manner he does one opened by cauftic, he will find the con- H 3 fequence102 A TREATISE ON fequence to be the fame. But, I know not why, a notion has long prevailed, that an abfcefs opened by a knife muft be immedi- ately crammed and fluffed with dreffings, while that on which a cauftic has been ap- plied muft be let alone until the efchar caffs off. Let the one be treated as the other is, (and as they both ought to be) and the event will be found to be alike in each: excepting this material difference in favour of the knife, that it will not neceffarily occaT fion any deftrudtion of parts, lofs of fubftance, nor any deformity which is at all compar- able with what muft follow the ufe of the cauftic. In making the opening, the knife or lancet fhould be palled in deep enough to reach the fluid; and, when it is in, the incilion fhould be continued upward and downward3, in fuch manner as to divide all the fkin cover- ing the matter. By thefe means, the con- tents of the abfcefs will be difcharged at » When I fay upward and downward, I fuppofe the patient to ftand on his feet, with his legs and thighs ftraight, and his body leaning forward over a table, or a bed; which poiture gives the faireft view of the parts; and puts them into the beft pofition for the operation, as well as for the operator. oncej;THE FISTULA IN ANO. 103 once; future lodgment of matter will be prevented; convenient room will be made for the application of proper dreffings; and there v/ill be no neceffity for making the in- cifion in different directions, or for removing any part of the fkin compofing the verge of the anus. Notwithstanding that all thefe collections ' of matter are generally called by the name of Fiftulae, and are all fuppofed to affect the inteftinum re&um, yet it is very certain that the feat of the abfceis, (the place where the matter is formed) is fometimes at fuch dis- tance from the gut, that it is not at all in- terested by it \ and that none of thefe cafes either are, or can be originally Mulas. In this ftate of the difeafe, we have no more neceffarily to do with the interline, than if it was not therej the cafe is to be confidered merely as an 'abfpefs in the celr lular membrane, which will require (in the ufual phrafe) to be digeited, incarned, and (if pra&icable) healed, without meddling with the rectum in any manner. As this is a matter of fome importance to the patient, it is worth a little consider- ation, H 4 SuppofeI04 A TREATISE ON" Suppofe an abfcefs formed in the neigh- bourhood of the redum, which, after a cer- tain degree of fweliing and inflammation, ripens, or comes to a point, fomewhere near to the verge of the anus. Suppofe alfo a large and convenient opening to have been made by a Ample incifion; the contents of the abfcefs to have been thereby difcharged; and a fore or cavity produced, which is, perhaps, confiderable in fize: this cavity is to be filled up in fuch manner, as to produce a firm and lafting cure. The frequent ufe of the term filling up, and the general-received opinion, that the induration of the parts about is a difeafed callofity, appear to me to have been the two principal fources of error and mifconduct in thefe cafes. Wherever matter is formed in confequence of inflammation, it always leaves, upon being let out, a proportional hollow, and fome degree of induration. -The former of thefe is of different fize, according to the quantity of matter; and the latter depends both on the degree of previous inflammation and the more or lefs perfect fuppuration of the abfcefs.THE FISTULA IN ANO. 105 The generally-received opinion, with re- gard to thefe two circumftances (hollow and hardnefs) is, that the former is caufed entire- ly by iofs of fubftance: and the latter (as I have already obferved) by difeafed alteration in the ftrucfure of the parts. The confequence of which opinion is, that as foon as the matter is difcharged, the ca- vity is filled and diftended, in order to pro- cure a gradual regeneration of flefli, and the jdreffings, with which it is fo filled, are mofr. Commonly of the efcharotic kind, intended for the diflbiution of hardnefs. The practice is a neceffary confequence of the theory. Whoever fuppofes difeafed callofity, and great lofs of fubftance, will necelTarily think himfelf obliged to deftroy the former, and to prevent the cavity, form- ed by the latter, fr-om filling up too haftily. On the other hand, he who confiders this matter as it really is; that is, he who regards the cavity of the abfcefs as being principally the effecl of the gradual detraction and fe- paration of its fides, with very little lofs of fubftance, compared with the fize of the faid cavity; and who looks upon the indura- tion round about, as nothing more than a $ circumftanceIQ6 A TREATISE ON cyrcumftance which neceffarity accompanies every inflammation in membranous parts, more efpecially in thofe which tend to fup- puration; will, upon the fmalleft reflection, perceive, that the dreffings applied to fuch cavity ought to be fo fmall in quantity, as to permit nature to accomplish that end which ihe always aims at as foon as the matter is let out, (I mean, the approach of the fides of the cavity toward each other) and that fuch fmall quantity of dreffings ought to confift of materials proper only to encourage eafy and gradual fuppuration. This is a fact fo obvious to common fenfe, that it muft appear to every one who will coolly and impartially confider it. What is the part in which the difeafe is feated ? and what are the alterations which fuch difeafe produces ? The part is mere cel- lular membrane; and the alteration is ob- struction and inflammation, ending in the formation of matter. But do thefe create any new body ? do not the fides of the abfcefs ftill remain cellular and adipofe membrane, only inflamed, thickened, hardened, and ren- dered purulent? can fuch alteration require anything more toward reftoring the parts to a natura}THE FISTULA IN ANO, IO7 natural ftate, than a free iiippuration from the parts fo altered; or can it make extirpa- tion or deftru£tion neceflary ? Mod certain- ly it cannot. How then is fuppuration to be produced and maintained ? Not by thruft- ing in fuch applications, as by their quantity diftend, and by their quality irritate and de-^ ftroy; but by dreffing lightly and eafily with fuch as appeafe, relax and foften. The facl is capable of experiment; and every man who will make it, that is, who will try the different methods, and attend to the confequenees, muft be able to determine it; unlefs blinded by prejudice, or influenced by a worfe motive -A moment's attention to the conduct, of nature, when left to herfelf, and not inter- rupted by art, will, perhaps, fet this matter in a clearer light. When an abfeefs of this kind is opened by a furgeon, the cavity is found propor- tioned to the contents; and, confequently, if the quantity of matter be large, the hol- low is confiderable. If this hollow be im- mediately filled with dremngs (of any kind,) the fides of it will be kept from approaching foward each other, or may even be farther feparated.lob .A TREATISE ON feparated. But if this cavity be not filled, £>r have little or no dreffings of any kind in- troduced into it, the fides immediately col- lapfe; and coming nearer and nearer, do, in a very fhort fpace of time, convert a large hollow into a fmall finus. And this is alfo .conftantly the cafe, when the matter, inftead of being let out by an artificial opening, efcapes through one made by the burfting of the containing parts. It is indeed true, that this finus will not always, (and particularly in the difeafe I am now fpeaking of) become perfectly clofe, and heal; but the aim and conduct of na- ture is not, therefore, the lefs evident; nor the hint, which art ought to borrow from her, the lefs palpable.* In this, as in molt other cafes, where there are large fores, or considerable cavities, a great deal will depend on the patient's habit, and the care that is taken of it: if that be good, or if it be properly corrected, the iurgeon will have very little trouble in his choice of dreffings; all that he will have to do will be, to take care that they do not of- fend either in quantity or quality: but if the habit be bad, or injudicioufly treated, he mayTHE FISTULA IN ANO. 100 may nfe the whole farrago of externals, and only wafte his own and his patient's time. In fhort, all thefe cafes are, at firft, mere abfceffes; the confequences of inflammation, and require no other treatment than what would be proper in the fame kind of cafe in all other parts. Some few of them are fo circumiianced, with regard to the inteftine, that it is quite unneceffarytfo meddle with it at all: but whether that be the cafe, or not; whether the divilion of the rectum be- come a neceflary part in the cure, or not; they, molt certainly, do not deferve the name of fiftulse, nor require that fort of treatment which fitful se are faid and thought to ftand in need of: though by being, from their very firft appearance, fuppofed to be fuch, they are frequently, by mifmanage- ment, rendered truly fiftulous. By this, (that is, by light, eafy treatment) large abfceffes formed in the neighbourhood of the redum will fometimes be cured, with- out any neceffity occurring of meddling with the faid gut. But it much more frequently happens, that the inteftine, although it may not have been pierced or eroded by the mat- ter, has yet been fo ftript or denuded, that noJIO A TREATISE ON no confolidation of the fmus can be obtain- ed, but by a divifion ; that is, by laying the two cavities, viz. that of the abfcefs and that of the inteftinej into one; The neceffity of doing this, may, in many cafes, be known by the furgeon at firft; that is, when he opens the abfcefs he may find the inteftine fo bare, and in fuch ftate, as plainly to prove that he will not be able to effect a cure without the operation: in other inftances, he may have reafon at firft to flatter himfelf with fuccefs, and be difappointed. When the former is the cafe; when the gut is found to be in fach ftate, that there is no reafon to expect a cure, without its being divided; that operation had better (on many accounts) be performed at the time the abfcefs is firft opened, than be deferred to a future one. For if it be done in the manner in which, I will venture to fay, that it always may, it will add fo little to the pain which the patient muft feel by opening the abfcefs, that he will feldom be able to diftinguifh the one from the other, either with regard to time or fenfation: whereas> if it be deferred, he muft either beTHE FISTULA. IN ANO. Ill be in continual expectation of a fecond cut- ting, or feel one at a time when he does not expect it. The intention in this operation is to divide the inteftine rectum from the verge of the anus up as high as the top of the hollow in which the matter was formed; thereby to lay the two cavities of the gut and abfcefs into one; and by means of an open, inftead of a hollow or fmuous fore, to obtain a firm and lafting cure. Ingenious, mechanical, and whimfical people b have often bufied themfelves in inventing inftruments for this purpofe: the fyringotomy, the cultellus falcatus, the probe-razor, &c. have all at times been in ufe; fchTors alfo of various kinds, both ftraight and crooked, have been employed in this operation; the three nrft may be made to ferve the purpofe very wellj but to the laft, (the fciffors) there is in this, as well as in almoft every operation in which they are frequently ufed, a palpable objection, viz. b The late Mr. Freeke invented an inftrument for this pur- pofe; but it was, upon trial, found to cut the operator's finger, with fo much more certainty than the patient's inteftine, that it has long been laid afide. thatH3 A TREATISE OK that by pinching at the fame time that they cut, they occafion a great deal of unneceffary pain. They are, I know, in great ufe with many, who if they were deprived of their probe-fchTors, would think themfelves in- capacitated from doing bufinefs; but they are, upon all occafions where mere divifion is required, a very bad inftrument; they may affift an aukward or an unfteady hand, but are more fit for a farrier than for a furgeon. In all chirurgic operations, the inftru- ment made ufe of cannot be too limple, nor too keenand, if poffible, mould never be out of the fight or the direction of the ringer of the operator; and, whenever it is, (as muft fometimes neceffarily be the cafe) it is liable to fome degree of uncertainty. SchTors introduced into the rectum are always in this predicament and are, therefore, (as well as on account of their pinching qua- lity,) bad. The curved, probe-pointed knife, with a narrow blade, I have always found to be the mod: ufefuj and handy inftrument of any, This, introduced into the finus, while the furgeon's fore-finger is in the inteltine, will1the Fistula in ano* 113 will enable him to divide all that can ever require divifion $ and that with lefs pain t© the patient, with more facility to the oper- ator, as well as with more certainty and expedition than any other inftrument what- ever. If there be no opening in the in- terline, the fmalleft degree of force will thruft the point of the knife through, and thereby make one: if there be one already, the fame point will find and pafs through it. In either cafe, it will be received by the finger in ano; will thereby be prevented from deviating; and being brought out by the fame finger, muft neceffarily divide all that is between the edge of the knife, and the verge of the anus: that is, muft by one fimple inci/ion (which is made in the fmall- eft fpace of time imaginable) lay the two cavities of the finus and of the inteftine into one. Authors make a very formal diftinction between thofe cafes in which the inteftine is pierced by the matter, and ihofe in which it is not; but although this diftinclion may be ufeful when the different ftates of the difeafe are to be defcribed, yet in practice, when the operation of dividing the gut Vol. III. I become*I 14 A TREATISE ON becomes neceffary, fuch diftirfction is of no confequence at all; it makes no alteration in the degree, kind, or quantity of pain which the patient is to feel; the force required to pum the knife through the tender gut is next to none, and when its point is in the cavity, the cafes are exactly fimilar. This is the only operation which (in the circumflances under our prefent consider- ation) ever can be neceffary ; and this appears to me to be the fafeft, eafieft, and moft expeditious method of performing it. I know that it is contrary to the opinion and practice of many; who think that the removal of fome part, both of the inteftinc and of the verge of the anus, is neceffary in thefe cafes; but long and repeated experi- ence has convinced me of the contrary: and I {hall, in the next fection, have occafion to fpeak more particularly to that point. Immediately after the operation, a foft doffil of ftrfe lint mould be introduced (from the rectum; between the divided lips of the incifion; as well to reprefs any flight haemor- rhage, as to prevent the immediate re-union of the aid lips j and the reft of the fore fhould be lightly dreffed with the fame.•THE FISTULA IN ANO. H5 This firft dreffing mould be permitted to continue, until a beginning fuppuration ren- ders it loofe enough to come away eafily; and all the future ones fhould be as light, foft, and eafy as poffible confifling only of fuch materials as are likely to promote kindly and gradual fuppuration. The fides of the abfcefs are large; the incifion murt necelfarily, for a few days, be inflamed; and the difcharge will, for fome time, be dif- coloured and gleety: this induration, and this fort of difcharge, are often miftaken for figns of difeafed callofity, and undifcovered finufes; upon which prefumptions, efcha- rotics are freely applied, and diligent fearcrt is made for new hollows; the former of thefe mod commonly increafe both the hardnefs and the gleet; and by the latter new finufes are fometimes really produced Thefe occafion a repetition of efcharotics, and, perhaps, of .incifions; by which means' cafes which at firit, and in their own nature were fimple and eafy of cure, are rendered complex and tedious. , Thft this is the truth, without exaggera- tion, is well known to many s and whoever 1 2 willJl6 A TREATISE ON will look over the writings of fome of our immediate predeceffors, or even of fome of our cotemporaries, will find that immedi- ately after pinching and fnipping the gut with fcirlbis, we are directed to fill the incifions with lint; and, after having dis- tended the cavity by fuch means, todrefs, in future with fuch medicines as, though ufed under the fpecious names of digeftives, de- tergents, Sec. do really inflame and irritate the parts to which they are applied and retard, inftead of encouraging, a kindly fuppuration. Among thefe, the mercurius prsecipitatus ruber ftands principal: this feems to have been the great external fpecific of mod of our immediate predeceffors, and to have been ufed by them for the very different pur- pofes of deftruclion and restoration: with this either in dry powder, or mixed with un- guent, the tents, pledgets, Sec. with which they drefled thefe fores, were fpread or em- bued; with this they drefled the recently- divided lips of the wound in the inteftine, and with this they filled the whole cavity of the abicefs. That the fame practice flill too much prevailsTHE FISTULA IN ANO. 117 prevails, they who pleafe, maybe convinced11. I would beg leave to alk any patron of this method of dreffing, what he would fay to a man, who fhall order a large tent, well charged with prsecipitate, to be thruft up the undivided, unwounded rectum of a perfon, who, from any caufe whatever, had an inflammatory defluxion on the hgemor- rhoidal veffels and infide of the faid gut? Would he not fay that fuch tent would prove a fatiguing, inflaming fuppofitory? and would he not be right in faying fo? Is then the rec- tum rendered lefs fenfible, and lefs irritable, by being wounded ? Or can that very appli- cation, which proves a painful ftimulus to a gut not divided, become an eafy digeftive one that is ? If any man thinks that it will, I would advife him to make the experiment on himfelf; and I would then appeal to the teftimony of his own unprejudiced fenfations, In mort, to quit reafoning, and fpeak to fact only: In the great number of thefe cafes, which muft have been in St. Bartholomew's hofpital, within thefe ten or twelve years, I d Mr. De la Fayc, fays—" Si les chairs s'elevent trop, on les confumera avec la pierre infernale ;'' and in many books of reputation, the butyrum antimonii, the trochifci e minio, the pulvis angelicus, Sen. are prefcribed for frequent ufe. I 3 <to /IlB A TREATISE ON > do aver, that I have not met with one in tho circumftances before defcribed, that has not been cured by mere fimple divilion, together with light, eafy dreflings: and that I have not, in all that time, ufed, for this purpofe, a fingle grain of prsecipitate, or of any other cfcharotic. Why is it that we hear fo much of mi- racles performed by the pafte of one quack ? and by the injections, oils, and balfams of others? when we all know, that there is no- thing fpecific for the cure of this difeafe in their compofitions: and when we alfo know that the venders *f thefe remedies are people whofe ignorance in matters of phytic and furgery is below a|l notice. That thefe cures are much more fre-- cmently talked of than made, I well know ; but that fome few people, who have been long and unfuccefsfully treated by furgeons, have got either well, or better, under the very negligent management of fome of thefe quacks, is an inconteftable truth; and very ftrange it is, that we do not fee why. Fas eft et ab bofte doceri:— The truth is: that, while we are look- ing for what thefe people do, we (if I may beTHE FISTULA IN ANO. II<> I 4 of be allowed the phrafe) overlook what they do not do. It is true, we cannot find any fpecific quality in the ftrange jumble o£ ingredients which they put into their inter- nal remedies; nor any particularly-fanative one in their injections, balfams, &c. and therefore are furprized at even the few in- ftances of their fuccefs; but ftill overlook the one fingle circumftance by which the good is produced. It is, and ever muft be, a firft principle in quackery, to difapprove and condemn whatever has been done before, be it right, or be it wrong : and it is"alfo necefTary for quacks, to avoid all connection with thofe who are called Regular Practitioners; as well in order to have the fole management of the patient, as to avoid inflection.- For thefe reafons, they always order all former dreffings to be immediately thrown afide and difufed; and not having in gene- neral ingenuity enough, even to feem to Rip- ply others, with any degree of judgment or dexterity, they make ufe of a mere fuperft- cial plafter, ointment or injection : that is, without intending any fuch thing, upon an honeft or a rational principle, they,>£or want120 A TREATISE ON of knowing what to do properly, leave the conduct of the fore to nature; who, when the impediment of dreffings (which often offend either in quantity or quality) are re-* moved, will do much more than her too officious affiftants believe. That the very few cures, which we have heard fo much of, are produced in this man- ner, I am convinced; and fo I am, that many of thofe which are thought by feveral prac- titioners to have been brought about by a multiplicity of dreffings crammed in tight, and endeavoured to be kept fo, by all the caution of comprefs and bandage, are very frequently effected by the conftant and ge- nerally fuccefsful endeavours of nature, to - thruff them forth again; or at leaft, fo to difplace them, that Ihe gradually gets oppor- tunities of doing her own bufinefs, in fpite of the impediments of art. The bufinefs of good furgery is to afiiffc nature; but fhe will, fometimes, get the better even of the worff, Ufque recurret, Et mala perrumpet furtim fajiidia vsffrix. SECT,THE FISTULA IN ANO. 121 SECT. V. In the preceding fection, I have fuppofed the matter of the abfcefs to have been form- ed, and collected; but ftill to have been contained within the cavity, until let out from thence by an incifion. I am now to confider it, as having made its own way out, without the help of art. This ftate of the difeafe is alfo fubjecr to fome variety of appearance; and tbefe dif- ferent appearances have produced, not only a multiplicity of appellations, but a ground- lefs fuppofition alfo, of a variety of eflentially different circumftances. When a difcharge of the matter by inci- fion is too long delayed or neglected, it makes its own way out, by burfting the ex- ternal parts fomewhere near to the fun- dament, or by eroding and making a hole through the inteftine into its cavity; or fometimes by both. In either cafe, the dif- charge is made fometimes by one orifice only, and fometimes by more. Thofe, in which the matter has made its efcape by one or more openings, through the ik'm only, are122 A TREATISE ON are called blind, external fiftulae; thofe in which the difcharge has been made into the cavity of the inteftine, without any orifice in the fkin, are named blind, internal; and thofe, which have an opening both through the fkin, and into the gut, are called com- plete fiftula?. This is the language of all writers, as I have already obferved: and thus, all thefe cafes are deemed fiftulous, when hardly any of them ever are fo; and none of them necefiarily. They are ftill mere abfcefTes, which are burft without the help of art; and, if taken proper and timely care of, will require no fuch treatment as a true fiftula may poflibly ftand in need of. The molt frequent of all are what are called the blind external; and the com- plete. The method whereby each of thefe ftates may be known is, by introducing a probe into the finus by the orifice in the fkin, while the fore-finger is within the rectum: this will give the examiner an op- portunity of knowing exactly the true ftate .of the cafe, with all its circumftances. Whether the cafe be, what is called a complete fiftula, or not.; that is, whether thereTHE FISTULA IN A NO. I2j$ there be an opening in the fkin only, or one there, and another in the inteftine, the ap- pearance to the eye is much the fame. Upon difcharge of the matter, the external fwelling fubfides, and the inflamed colour of the Ikin difappears; the orifice, which at firft was lloughy and foul, after a day or two are paft, becomes clean and contracts in fize; but the difcharge, by fretting the parts about, renders the patient ftill uneafy. As this kind of opening feldom proves fufHcient for a cure, (though it fometimes does) the induration, in fome degree, re- mains ; and if the orifice happens not to be a depending one, fome part of the matter lodges, and is difcharged by intervals, or may be pre/Ted put by the fingers of an ex- aminer. The difeafe, in this ftate, is not very painful; but it is troublefome, nafty, and offenfive; the continual difcharge of a thin kind of fluid from it, creates heat, and caufes excoriation in the parts about} it daubs the linen of the patient; and is, at times, very fcetid : the orifice alfo fometimes contracts fo, as not to be fufficient for the difcharge; and the lodgment of the matter $en occafions frefh disturbance, 4 TheA TREATISE ON 124 The means of cure propofed and prac- tifed by our anceftors, were three, viz. cauftic, ligature, and incifion. The intention in each of thefe is the fame, viz, to form one cavity of the finus and inteftine, by laying the former into the latter. Fear of haemorrage, in making a large divifion of parts, and a defign to deftroy callofity, gave rife to the ufe of cauftics for this purpofe. By the introduction of them in different forms and manners into the finus, that part of the inteftine which divides its cavity from that of the abfcefs is intended to be deftroyed; and thereby the propofed end of making one cavity of two is to be accomplifhed; while at the fame time, the fuppofed callofity is to be wafted. For this purpofe, fome of the moft fatiguing and painful efcharotics have been prefcribed and ufed: the pulvis angelicus, the lapis in- fernalis, and troches and paftes made with fublimate, arfenic, &c. But the method is fo cruel, fo tedious, and fo inexpert, that I hope it is by this time totally out of ufe: }t was founded in error, tends only to 3 mifchief,THE FISTULA IN ANO. I25 mifchief, and I will not wafte the reader's time in faying any thing more about it.a The terror which a cutting inftrument neceffarily carries with it, the fear of a flux of blood from fome confiderable vefTels, together with a ftrange, nonfenfical opinion, that a gradual divifion of the parts was fol- lowed by a more found cure, than an im- mediate one by cutting, produced the coarfe, unhandy method by ligature. The manner of ufing it was this: A probe, or needle, (according to the complete or incomplete ftate of the fuppofed flftula) armed with a 1 Do£tor Daniel Turner, who pracYifed furgery within thefe few years, ufed this method in its full extent. In his works may be found an account of his forming tents of the trochifci e minio, and thrufting them into the finus, there to remain till they had produced a fufficient efchar. In the fame writer are accounts of itrong probe-fcihors, made to cut through parts of a confiderable thicknefs, and where the external orifice was at a great diftance from the anus: and of an iron fcoop, made (to ufe the doctor's own words) like a cheefe-monger's tafter, to be thruft up the redtum, and affift in the divifion of it. What ideas this gentleman had of the difeafe, or of human fenfation, I cam- not imagine. The fame gentleman, fpeaking of the ufe of this iron fcoop, tells us, that when he ufed it on one particular patient, the man thought that the Doclor was only thrufting up the dreflings. It is no difficult matter to conceive what kind of draftings this man mull have been accuftomed to, who could not diftlnguifh between the application of them, and the thrufting up an iron fcoop. nrong*26 A TREATISE OK flrong ligature, was introduced, either naked or in a cannula, by the orifice in the but- tock, and brought out at the anus, by the operator's finger: when that was done, the two ends of the faid ligature were tied to- gether, in fuch manner, and at fuch repeated times, as by degrees to cut through all that was between its loop and its knot; that is, all that part of the interline which was next to the finus. Among writers on this fubjedt will be found very formal directions about the pro- per time of the year for performing this oper- ation ; as well as concerning the proper ma- terials wherewith to make the ligature. But as the whole operation is, on every principle of eafe, expedition, fafety or certainty, unfit for practice, it would be an abufe of the reader's patience to dwell any longer upon it*. The b See Celfus, whofe account of the method by ligature has been followed by molt of the writers fince. " In has « demilfo fpecillo, ad ultimum ejus caput incidi cutis debet; ** dein novo foramine fpecillum educi lino fequente; quod in! «« aliam ejus partem, ob id ipfum perforatam, conjeftum fit; «' ibi linum apprehendendum, ligandumque cum altero capite " eft; ut laxe cutem, quse fuper Jiftulam eft, teneat: idouc " linuu]THE FISTULA IN ANO. 11J The third method is that by incifion. I have already given my opinion on what appears to me to be the belt and moit pro- per method of dividing the inteftine, in the cafe of a collection of matter formed juxta anum. The intention to be aimed at by incifion in the prefent cafe, is exactly the1 fame, and CI think) ought to be executed in the fame manner. I never faw that any other kind of operation was neceflaryj I have not for many years performed any other; and I do not recoiled a fmgle inftance in which it has failed to produce a cure, in fuch cafes as were curable by any means. If, therefore, I intended to give my own opinion merely on this fubjedt, I mould fay, the fame divifion of the intefline, and with the fame inftrument, is all that is required; and, referring my reader back to the preced- ing feftion,mould give him no farther trouble on this head. But as I find my fentiments in this matter are fomewhat different from << linum debet eflc crudum, & duplex, triplexve, fic tortunt ^ ut unitas in eo fa&a fit. Interim autem licet negotia agere, " ambulare> Iavare, cibum capere, perinde atquc faniflimo/' thofeA TREATISE 0*7 the thofe of many, I muft beg leave to be in. dulged in the ufe of a few words. I have faid, that in whatever manner, or with whatever inftrument, the inteftine be divided, the intention is the fame; viz. to lay the cavity of the abfcefs into that of the gut, and thereby to convert a hollow finous fore into an open one; preventing, by the fame means, the future lodgment of matter, and giving room for the application of proper dreffings. The two cafes (a colle&ion of matter, and a finus) feem to me to require exactly the fame treatment; and I have never found it fail of being equally fuccefsful in both; that is, I never found that the matter having found its own way out, made any other oper- ation on the gut except the mere fimple di- vision, at all neceffary. But it is faid, and that by authors to whom great regard is due, that this is not all that is requifite, efpecially in the pre- fent circumftances; that this will not pro- duce a cure, or affure fuccefs; that mere divifion of the interline is not fufficient; and that, unlefs we cut out, remove and extir- pate a portion both of the faid inteftine, andTHE FISTULA IN Atto. 120. the ikin conftituting what is called the verge of the anus; a firm and lafting cure will not follow. This is the doctrine of writers of eminence, and the practice of a large body of furgeons. When I have mentioned the names of Chefelden, De la Faye, and Le Dran, I need not cite- any others of lefs note. The firft of thefe was a gentleman whofe repu- tation in his profelTion was great; the two latter are in as high character ndw in France. The influence of thefe upon their readers muft be considerable; and .therefore it be- comes a matter of the more importance that their doctrine be juft and defenfible. The methods which thefe gentlemen have propofed, and which have been by many adopted, are fbmewhat different from each - other, but do all tend to the fame purpofe; are all calculated to prevent imaginary evils; and are all productive of real ones. Mr. Chefelden, in the laft edition of his Anatomy, fays, — *« The true fiftula runs " between the mufcular and inner coat of " the rectum: it is Cured by opening it the " whole length into the cavity of the gut; « but it is yet better, if it can be done, to' VoJ~ llL K «< extirpateI3° A TREATISE ON The J extirpate all that is fiftulous and fcirrhousj " for that is a fure way to make one operation " perfect the cure." • In his Obfervations, publimed at the end of Mr. Gataker's tranflation of Le Dran's furgery, Mr. Chefelden defcribes a method of his own inventing, by the introduction of one blade of a pair of polypus-forceps into the finus, and of the other into the rectum 5 by which means, a certain portion of the in- terline is held fall between the chops of the inilrument, in order to be cut out with the fciiTors. After having given an explanation of a plate, defigned to reprefent the forceps in- troduced in fuch a manner as to hold the piece of interline faft, he adds, •— " 1 for- " merly cut out a pyramidal piece in the "manner here defcribed; but I find this " way with the forceps much more conve- *; nient, and more eafy to be executed.'' How much this method may be prefer- able to that which Mr. Chefelden ufed tcr praclife, I know not; but I will venture to fay, that this more eafy method is horridly painful, is operofe, and abfolutely unnecef- fary towards obtaining a cure.THE FISTULA IN ANO. I^I The wound, that is, the orifice of the firms in the buttock, is by Mr. Chefelden's direc- tion, to be firft dilated with a fponge tent ; th en one of the blades of a pair of large poly- pus-forceps is to be thruft up the fmus, while the other within the inteftine pinches it be- tween them; and then this piece fo pinched is to be fnipped out by the repeated attacks of a pair of fciffors. A very tedious and very painful operation this muft neceflarily be; and by Mr. Chefelden's own account, not al- ways fuccefsful: for although he does fay,— " The operation being thus performed, I have " never found wanting a fecond cutting;" yet he immediately adds, —" If, after this tc operation, there is frill an internal dif- " charge into the gut, it may be an ufeful " hTue; and continue the benefit which na- " ture defigned by the difeafec. We fhould c This is a method of making an iflue to which few people would (I believe) chufe to fubmit: efpecially if they confider that they might have enjoyed all the benefit of it, without any operation at all; merely by leaving their difeafe to nature. The fame gentleman, fpeakingof the inteftine reftum, tells us, that he once applied a cauftic lengthways on the infide of the inverted gut, to cure a prolapfus; and adds, that it proved fuc- cefsful. This I am almolt forry for; left Mr. Chefelden's au- thority mould tempt any other perfon to make the fame attempt. K 2 " alfQ)A TREATISE ON " alfo be very careful not to perform it when " the patient is troubled with the piles; for " I have known one in that cafe bleed to " death." It would be no difficult matter to make great objections to this method of operating, even if the one thing intended by it was ne- cefTary; I mean the extirpation of a portion of the rectum: this end might certainly be obtained by eafier means: but as that is not the cafe, as fuch extirpation appears to me to be totally unneceflary, I mall not enter into it. Mr. De la Faye, a practitioner and writer ^eminence in France, and a gentleman to II whom the chirurgic world is much indebted, is a warm patron of the practice of cutting away both a part o£the interline and of the fkin compofiiig the verge of the anus. After the external incifion, necefTary for letting out the matter, has been made, he fays, —" Si " les pus a fait un progres confiderable du " cote de la fefTe, on y fera une autre inci- « fion, qui tombera perpendiculairement fur " Tincifion longitudinale; on coupera les «« angles formez par ces incilions, pour ren- dre l'extericur de la playe plus large que «• leTHE FISTULA IN ANO. r33 «le fond, & pour panfer plus aifement." « If the matter has extended itfelf connder- « ably toward the buttock, another incifion « mould be made, in fuch manner as to crofs «the former; the angles formed by which « incifions mould be cut away: as well to * render the external part of the wound < larger than the internal, as to give room 'for the more convenient application of « dreffings to the fore/ If Mr. De la Faye had ever, in his own perfon, had the misfortune to experience the inconvenience arifing from the lofs of ftin near to the fundament; or had he attended to that which it produces to thofe, who either from choice, or necefiity, ride or walk much, I am inclined to believe he would have been more fparing of it. For the firft three or four days, this kind of incifion does, certainly, render the appli- cations of dreffings more convenient; becaule the wound is thereby confiderably enlarged; but as foon as digeftion has foftened the edges of the fingle perpendicular incifion, that dif- ference ceafes ; and the dreffings may be ap- plied with equal facility to the one as to the other. K 3 AftePA TREATISE ON After this period is part, the difference between the two is, indeed, much more con- fiderable; the cutting away the angles, add- ing not a little to the length of time requi- fite for a cure ; rendering the fore much larger, and more troublefome; and fuRed- ing the patient, very often, to great inconve- nience, ariiing from the kind of cicatrix which it necefTarily produces. Mr. De la Faye, after having defcribed the manner of palling the probe, or the fulcated diredor, in order to make a fimple longitu- dinal divifion of the interline, adds,—" On " ne fe contente pas aujourdhui de couper " la Mule entre les deux extremites du ** ftilet; on fait line incilion qui renferme " dam. fon circuit ces deux extremites:' et par le moyen de laquelle, en les tirant en *' meme temps, on emporte toufe la fiftule, \! qui fe trouve comme embrochee dans l'anfe " formee par cette innrument:d on fait en- fuite a la partie inferieure de la playe, une " incilion, qui fert comme de gouliere a la tf£ fuppuration." The pretent practitioners do d It might be fuppofed, from the manner in which this is delivered,, that the method was a modern invention : whereas it is, on the contrary, a very old one. Guido's deicription ofTHE FISTULA IN A NO. 135 * do not content themfelves with merely di- « viding the finus; but making ufe of the * probe as a kind of loop, they pull the parts 'towards them: and then, by a free and * almoft circular incifion cut out the whole ' Mula; after which they make fuch an * incifion in the lower part, as may beft of it is as follows.—" Penetrantes fiftuls (fecundum Rhazin) if non fanantur, nift cum ligatione, et extradtione cum falce. *' Modus incifionis cum falce eft, quod extrahatur cum " chordula immifla extra quantum poflibile erit inteftinum <* comprehenfum per ipfam chordulam; et poll intromittendurn ** pofitum ab Albucafi bene fcindens; totum illud, quod com- " prehenfum eft cum chordula fcindatur; ita, quod chordula P expediatur." Guido. So alfo Brunus, having defcrihed the method by ligature, goes on to that by incifion. " Operatio autem fecundi modi eft, .«£ non ftringatur fpacus " [the ligature] ftcut narratum eft ad incidendas carries, fed f ligentur tantum ipfius extremitates fimul, et ut fit ifte fpacus " fortibr et groffior ill© qui carnes incidit: deinde extende '* fpacum cum una manuum tuarum verfus exteriora, et cum « altera manu tua incide illas carnes quas funt inter illas duas *' extremitates, fpaci, cum inftrumento curva: extremitaths." This is exaftly, what is now by fome called, Cutting upon the Wire ; and I have feen in the hands of a very ingenious gentleman, a fingle inftrument, very capable of executing all this purpofe; that is, of cutting out ten times as much as ever can be neceffary. The fame account is to be found in Lanfrance, Rogerius, and molt of the old writers; who, in this, as in molt other inftances, have done little more than merely copy each other. K 4 f fcnrel3&, A TREATISE ON" 'ferve the purppfe of a free di&We of f matter.' / This method, as far as regards the mere operation, is certainly preferable to that with the forceps and fcihors ; but it pro- duces the fame deftrudion of the.parts, and the fame future inconveniences; like that, it is built upon a fuppofition, that fuch a removal of parts is necerTary toward a cure; ana\ therefore, like that, flands upon a fupl pofition which is not true. The fame gentleman, in another para- graph, admits, that this method of operat- ing is not proper in certain circumftances (which circumftances cannot poffibly render the difeafe eafier of cure;) and in fuch cafe, advifes the mere longitudinal fe&ion of the gut.—-" Neanmoins, le canal fiftuleux pour- *< roit etre fi profond, ou le trou exterieur " de la fiftule dans un lieu de la fefle fi " eloigne du fondement, qu' en faifant « l'operation de la maniere qu? on vient de " decrire, on emporteroit une trop grande sc portion de la fubffance. En ce cas on ft ouvre fur une fonde canelee la fiftule dans f- fa longueur," Sec. < Neyerthelefs, the * fiftulous hollow may be fo deep, or the ex-THE FISTULA IN ANO. I37 f ternal orifice in the buttock at fuch dif- * tance from the anus, that, if the operation * be performed in the manner juft defcribed, ' it would oceafion too large a lofs of fub- « fiance. In this cafe, the finus muft be ' opened lengthways by means of a grooved * director.' Mr. De la Faye does not indeed fay, in exprefs terms, that this longitudinal divivion will be fufficient for a cure; but I will venture to fay for him, that I know, from repeated experience, that it will. The obfervation, therefore, which this gentleman has made, concerning the lofs of fubftance, is not only juft and true in itfelf; bnt it is alfo an obfervation, which, if properly at- tended to, will lead to a truth which he does not feem to have been fufficiently ap- prifed of; which is, that every operation of -this fort, (that is, every extirpation of parts,) is unneceflary, and therefore wrong. Large hollows, in which confiderable quantities of matter have been formed; whofe extent, with regard to the interline, is deep; and whofe orifice is in the buttock, at a diftance from the anus, have always more induration about them, and difcharge a larger quantity of gleet, than th<?fe which are fmaller, more fliajlow.T3& A TREATISE ON fhallow, and thinner; and whofe matter has burft its way out, by an opening near to the fundament. If the former then are curable by a mere longitudinal divifion of the in- terline, without excifion, which Mr. de la Faye, by his prefcription, in fome meafure allows; (and which is a truth beyond con- tradiction or contefl) furely extirpation muft be unneceffary in the latter. It can hardly be fuppofed, that nature will be able to do more in cafes attended with increafed dif- ficulties and impediments, than in thofe where every circumftance is more favour- able, every hindrance lefs. And yet, who- ever cuts away a portion of the inteftine in the latter, and omitting, or not performing fnch operation in the former, finds that they will do well without it, muft reafon in that manner, and fhut his eyes againft con- viction. Mr. De la Faye is indeed fenfible of the 511 confequences which fuch treatment pro- duces, and has endeavoured to guard againft them as well as he can; but whoever has been fo unfortunate as to have been fo treat- ed, knows that all thefe precautions are, in general, ineffectual: his words are,— " Lorfqu'onTHE FISTULA IN ANO. I 39 8 pearances ,l Lorfqu'on a coupe dans l'operation une " portion connderable du bord de I'anus, «* & que les chairs commencent a remplir ct le vuide, il faut mettre dans l'ouverture " de cette partie une tente, un peu courte, " qui en empechant le retrecincment lui " conferve fon diametre."—* When a con- * fiderable portion of the verge of the anus « has been cut away in the operation, and * new fiefh begins to fill up the void fpace, * a fhort tent mould be introduced into the ( part, in order to hinder the fundament « from contracting in its diameter;'—but which it will often do, in fpite of all the tents in the world. Mr. Le Dran, a writer and practitioner of considerable figure in Paris, and whofe works have been tranflated into Englifh by- Mr. Gataker, is very particular with regard to this difeafe, and the method of treating it; and is alfo an advocate for this exfcind- ing fcheme, even more than Mr. De la Faye. This gentleman ufes the term fiftula, without any regard to the date of the dif- eafe, or any attending circumftances, ex- cept the common and almoft neceflary ap-H° A TREATISE ON pearances when an abfcefs of this kind has been fuffered to burit, viz. a fmall orifice, fome degree of induration, and a difcharge of faecal matter: all which are circumftan- ces that necenarily accompany every abfcefs formed in the neighbourhood of, and pierc- ing the redtum: and this, at the very firft hour, full as much as at any time after. So that, according to this manner of ufing the term, an abfcefs fo circumftanced, and a fiflula, are fynonymous: which I appre*- hend cannot be, without confounding to- gether two things materially and effentially different from each other. He fays,—" Je " vois un petit trou a cote de l'anus, je " fens des callofites autour, et je vois fortir " par ce trou une alfez grande quantite de <e pus; je conclus que c'eft une fiOule qui peut-etre intereffe l'inteftin redlUm. Je " vois fortir, par ce trou un peu de matiere *' ftercorale delayee j ou bien le malade me +* dit, qu'il en forte quelquefois; je ne " doubte plus que le boyau ne foit perce -f H ti je dis que c'eft un riftule complette." i—* When I fee a fmall orifice by the fide * of the anus, and perceive a hardnefs round < about it, and find that it difcharges a large * quantityTHE FISTULA IN ANO. *4* < quantity of matter, I conclude that it is < a fiftula, which moft probably affeas the « rectum. When I find fomething like < feces difcharged from this orifice, or 6 mixed with what is difcharged from it; < or the patient informs me that fuch kind c 0f difcharge is made j I call the difeafe a < complete nftula.'—-This is, undoubtedly, the general cuftom; notwithftanding which, the difeafe, in the ftate Mr. Le Dran has defcribed it, may have no one true cha- radteriftic of.a fiftula; nor require any of that treatment which is faid to be neceflary and proper in fuch cafe. A matter of great confequence to the patient. In the operative part of the treatment of the difeafe, Mr. Le Dran warmly efpoufes, the free removal, or extirpation of parts.— «< S'il ne l'efb que d'une cote, il faut em- " porter ce qui eft denue; certain que ft " Ton le laiffe, la playe reftera fiftuleufe; '* et que ft Ton fe contente de le fendre, les " deux lambeaux flottans, dans, la playe " rendront les panfemens tres diniciles, et 61 meme la playe fiftuleufe."—' If the dif- • eafe be on one fide only, all that part of ' the inteftine, which is laid bare by the « matter,T42 A TREATISE! ON 'matter, ought to be cut away; becaufe, ' it is certain, that if fuch part be left in * the wound, it will become fiftulous; and c that, if we only make a fimple divifion, 4 the divided lips will hang loofe and float. * ing in the wound ; will render the ap- ' plication of dreflings difficult, and make < the fore fiftulous.' ^ TIiefe are Mr. Le Dran's words and fen- timents: and this the method of practice which is taught and followed by the ma- jority. That fome fmall part of this procefs may be neceffary in the true, old, callous, fiftulous fore, I do not deny; (though not even then, in any degree equal to the above direction) but that the whole of it is abfolutely un- neceffary in the recent abfcefs, I can, from repeated experience, venture to affirm : That mere divifion of the naked interline (if fuch divifion be dreffed properly) will not render a firms fiftulous, which was not fo before, is a truth as clear as any in Euclid; and, in- deed, it is to me matter of wonder how fuch opinion could ever be embraced. The divifion of the inteftine, by laying the cavity of the finus open, deftroys or removes the principalTHE FISTULA IN ANO. 143 principal circumftance which can make fuch a cafe referable a fiftula; by converting a hollow finous ulcer into an open one: and with regard to the other characteriftic, in- duration, certain it is, that if the knife does not find the parts hard, it cannot poflibly make them fo; on the contrary, it puts them under a neceffity of undergoing fuch a. degree of fuppuration, as, if properly managed, will prove the cure of that very induration. Mr. Le Dran fays, " That the lips of ?* the wound will hang floating; will ren- '« der the dreffings difficult, and the fore «< fiftulous." I think I underftand what Mr. Le Dran means: the tumid lips of the recently-made incilioh will certainly be a hindrance to the cramming in a quantity of dreflings; and fuch attempts will, as cer- tainly, increafe the tumefaction and hard- nefs; and, if perfifted in, with the help of a little efcharotic, may bid fair for produc- ing a callous fore: but all this lies at the door of the furgeon, and not of the cafe : all this is unneceifary, improper, and perni- cious. I cannot, under fuch treatment as I would call good furgery, conceive the tumefactionJ44 A TREATISE Otf 3 divided tumefaction and inflamed ftatc of the lips of the divided gut to remain more than a few days ; during which time, it muft be the bufinefs of art to appeafe* relax, and produce fuppuration; which, if properly executed^ will infallibly prevent all ten- dency towards a flftulous fore, infteadof producing one. That the lips of the wound in the rec- tum will not feparate from each other, iri fuch manner as to admit a large quantity of lint i and that the membranous ftruclure of the part will render fuch lips large, and fubjedt to inflammation, until fome degree of fuppuration comes on, is beyond all doubt; but neither of thefe are reafons for extirpation: for the inflammation will be full as high where a piece is cut out, as where the part is merely divided, and all the fymptoms of pain and uneafinefs full as great, if not greater: and with regard to the impracticability of putting in a quantity of dr'effing, I repeat, that it is not at all neceflary; but that, on the contrary, it is wrong, and tends only to mifchief. A doiTil or two of fine lint fhould, immediately after the incifion is made, be placed between theTHE FISTULA IN ANO. 145 divided lips, by pafling them from the cavity of the redtum laterally into the cavity of what before fuch divifion was the finus: thefe mould not be removed, until either the beginning fuppuration, cr the neceffary action of the gut in going to ftcol, throws them out; when their place mould be {up- plied with others of equal fize, imbued with an eafy foft digeftive. If the patient be in health, the lips of this wound, like thofe in all other mem- branous parts, after they have been crude, tumid and inflamed, and have for a few days difcharged a thin, difcoloured kind of gleet, will begin to fuppurate : if fuch fuppuration be by proper, that is, by foft, gentle, treat- ment, encouraged, not only the tumefaction and inflammatory hardnefs brought on by the incinon will foon fubfide and difappear, but alfo all the induration which attended the finus before it was laid open. On the other hand, if the patient's habit be bad, and no fuch inflammatory tumefac- tion fucceed to the incifioh; but inftead of it the lips of the wound are foft, flabby, and in Jining to be livid, the cafe has undoubted- ly an unpromifing appearance; but the re- Vol. III. L medy146 a treatise on medy is not chirurgical: removal of parts •will not remove or amend this ftate of the fore, or at all lerTen the hazard arifing from it: it may indeed render the introduction of dreflings fomewhat more eafy; but it nei- ther will, nor can make fuch dreffings at all more effectual, or more conducive to the one end which ought to be purfued. In fuch cafe, the remedy muit. be an in- ternal one; and whoever depends upon ex- ternals will give his patient much unneceflary trouble and only wafte his time. The truth is, this doctrine of the neceffityr of cutting out a portion of the inteftine, (though it is as old, or perhaps older than Celfusf) is almofr. a neceflary confequence of the manner in which thefe fores (upon a fuppofition of their being fiftulous) almoft always have been, and do ft ill continue to be, generally treated.—I mean, the euftom of cramming them full of lint, and of charg- ing that lint with medicines, which, though f * In hoc genere demiffo fpecillo, daubus lincis incidcnda * cutis eft, at media inter eas habenula tenuis admodum injicia- * tur, ne protinus ora coeant, fitque locus aliquis linimentis, s qujE quam pauciflima fuperinjicicnda funt, omniaque codem ' modo facienda, qua in abfceflibus pofua funt.' Cel.su >\ 5 ufedTHE FISTULA IN ANO. 147 ufed under more gentle appellations, are re- ally efcharotics. Upon this plan, lam will- ing to allow that the lips of the divided in- terline will be in the way, and prove a con- fiderable impediment in the introduction of fuch dreifings; and I will alfo allow, that by means of fuch medicines, the whole wound will be irritated, inflamed, and hardened; and fo far wear the appearance of being fiftulous, as neither to yield good matter, nor be difpofed to heal; at leaft, not till nature has got the better of the furgeon. What Mr. Le Dran lays, in another para- graph of the fame tract, may ferve to ftrengthen what I have alferted. —" S'il eft " denue des deux cotes, il faut pour le con- " ferver, faire al'autrefefTe une contreouver- " ture,pres de la, & la faire affez longue pour " pouvoir panfer commode ment; puis ecou- " ter ce que la nature fera pour lui." « If ' the gut be denuded on both fides, a coun- « ter-opening mould be made on the other *■ fide, long enough to permit, conveniently, 'the application of dreffings; and then we ' mould wait, and fee what nature will do « toward affifting the patient.' A very important piece of advice this; L 7, worthJ4-8 A TREATISE ON worth all the directions for the extirpation of parts; and which, if timely and duly attended to, will, generally, render all fuch directions quite unneceffary. It is, indeed, fomewhat remarkable, that the fame gentleman mould give the above very excellent advice, and, almoft in the fame breath, add what follows. —" S'il eft denue " exacl ement dans toute facirconference, & <c que fon depouillement ne s'etend pas plus " haut que les releveurs de lanus, il faut " emporter tout ce qui eft denue."— < If the * inteftine be bared by the matter all round, ' and this denudation does not extend above 5 the levatOres ani, ail that part which is fo * bared, fhould be extirpated.' That is the, whole verge of the anus: all that part which is fo formed by nature, as, by its relaxation to permit the largeft and moft folid ftool to pafs out; and, by its conftr.i6f.ion, to detain and keep in, for a while, the moft fluid, fharp and ftimulating one; all that part which when deftroyed or removed,, not only never can be renewed, but never can have its place fupplied, nor its office properly executed by what muft fucceed to it: furely it may, with great ju ft ice, be faid, that the laft ftate of a man ju inTHE FISTULA IN ANO. I49 in thefe circumftances is worfe than the firft; and that his remedy proves a moft afflicting <3ifeafeE. Prejudice s In the Memoirs of the French Academy, is a cafe of this kind, related by Mr. Faget. The patient had an abfcefs on each fide of the redtum ; which, before Mr. Faget faw it, had been opened without meddling with the gut. The two abfeefies communicated by a hollow or finus under] the os coccygis; the depth in all the upper part is defcribed to be about two inches, but in the perineum the fkin only was fe- parated; that is, the hollow was quite fuperficial. After five months attendance, during which time the redtum was never divided, the patient was brought to Paris; where in a confu- tation between the Meflieurs Faget and Boudon, it was agreed, that the only method of obtaining a cure, muft be by extirpat- ing, or cutting away the whole extremity of the inteftine, as deep as it was laid bare; which operation is thus defcribed — '** Je percai d'abord le redtum de droit a gauche, avec un gros 4i ftilet; avec lequel je fis 1'anfe. Je commencai a couper le *f lambeau de peau qui tenoitau coccyx, & je continual toutle " long d'attache des mufcles releveurs jufqu' a la parte moyen- " ne du perinee, ou il y avoit beaucoup de durete, & de callo- " fitez, que j'emportai; je panfai la playe avec un gros bour~ " donnet, & des lambeaux de linge trempes dans l'eau alumi- " neufe, le tout foutenu par plufieurs comprefics & un bandage " convenable," &c. Mr. Faget fays, that the patient was fix months longer in getting well. To which I mufl take the li- berty of adding, that he was much more fortunate than fome whom I have feen under the fame treatment. The relator, in the reft of the memoir, endeavours to explain the method by which the new anus became capable of executing the office of the old one ; and very juftly feems to wonder, why the furgeon, who firft had the care of the patient, and who firft opened the abfeefles, did not divide the redtum in each of them. Mr. Faget's furprife, and his cenfurc on the operator, are I- 3 certainly15° A TREATISE ON Prejudice often prevents us from feeing truth, though it frauds before us : for Mr. Le Dran, though he fo ftrongty recommends the extirpation of a portion of the inteftine, yet has made the fame obfervation on thofe fiftuhe which run too high for extirpation, as Mr. De la Faye: he has very juftly re- marked, that they will do well without fuch operation: and has given fo good and fo true an account of the matter, that it is amazing he mould not fee, that the lame method, both of reafoning and of adting, was equally applicable to both cafes; that is, to thofe fiftulae which do not extend fo high, as well as to thofe which do. He fays, <c Ou " trouve fouvent des finus qui montent fort " haut le long du redtum; & meme vers la " veflie, dans la tiflu cellulaire qui entoure " ces parties: finus qui femblent devoir <e rendre ces maladies incurables, parcequ'ils certainly well founded: but I rnuft own thajt it feems to me to be full as extraordinary, that he, who faw the pro- priety of its having been done before, Ihould not, at leaft, try what If would do afterward. If this experiment had been made, and the cafe properly conduced, I make little doubt that the patient might have been cured without the lofs of his fundamerit. A lofs, which, though poffibly in youth and health he might not be fo fenfible of as to alarm him, yet in a£e> Of a ftate of debility, mull prove a very grievous one. (i vontTHE FISTUL A IN ANO. ' 151 " vont plus haut que le doigt ne peut aller. *' Mais l'experience m'appris que ces finus fe it remplifferent prefque toujours dans les fix « premiers jours—ou pour parler plusjuf- «s tement, que les chairs fe rapprocherent, " n'ayant etes qu' ecarte's par les pus, & " non fondues."—' Sometimes we meet with * fmufes, which run fo high in the tela cel- * luloia, along the rectum, and up toward « the bladder, that one would be inclined to * believe them to be incurable, from their ' being beyond the reach of the fingerh; but ' I have * It is hardly decent for a furgeon to fay it; but I am much inclined to believe that this circumftance of the finus being out of the reach of ihe finger is the very individual one on which the expedition of the cure (that is, the fhortnefs of the time in which Mr. JLe Dran fays that he finds thefe cavities filled up) depends. For if they were within the reach of the finger of an operator who thinks as this gentleman writes, he would immediately go to work with his inftiuments; and if he did nothing worle, mull neceffarily prolong,—It has always been a very generally-received opinion, that if the hollow of the finus be higher than a finger in ano can reach, all chirurgic operation is fruitlefs. There is hardly an author ancient or mo • dern who has not inculcated this doctrine, though daily experi- ence might have convinced them of its falfehood. Among the reft Heifter has given us his opinion on this fubjedr, in the moil pofitive manner: —" Et fane nifi digitus, " in anum depreffus, fiftuls os attingere valet, verum illud Vi a^huc profundius latct, fine vhx periculo, ob metum \xdei\- L .1 " d irumJ52 A TREATISE ON I I ^ 3earned from experience, that thefe linufcs fill up within the firft fix days — 6 Or, If " Venai'Um majorum' <"^io inititui nequit; adeoque tunc parum plerumque, imp vero nihil omnino crururgi amficia proficiunt," &c. This, which, as I have obferved before, is the doclrine of all cur writers, has always flood upon the fame principle, viz the fear of hemorrhage ; and all the propagators of it hare al- ways fuppofcd, that nothing but a divifion of the whole ftnus could poflibly produce a cure; which fuppofition is by no means true. • When the cafe is an abfcefs formed in the cellular membrane the length of the finus muft be proportioned to the diftance of the feat of fnch abfcefs from its external orifice: this is fome times confiderable, quite out of the reach of the finder in ano but it does by no means follow, that either this fihus muft be divided through its. whole length; or that the difeafe cannot be cured ; and therefore that it is better not to meddle with it at all. Frequent experience proves the contrary. If all that part of it which is within the reach of the finger in ano, (that is, all that part of it which is principally affefted by the adlion of the mufcles of the anus and reftum) be fairly divided • if the wound fo made be drefled in fuch manner as to produce no inflammatory irritation; if it be not frequently poked into and examined; and the patient's habit be properly taken care of the length of the finus will add very little to the difficulty at- tending the cure; all that is out of reach will collapfe and heal • and the cafe will very foon be eXaflly the fame, as if the whole hollow was within the finger's length. The probability of an haemorrhage from the large veffels about the upper part of the reftum, is a thing which ought by all means to be avoided, as it might give a great deal of trouble, and create fome hazard; but the operation which would induce fuch^THE FISTULA IN ANO, 153 * Or, to fpeak more properly, that the mem- * branes, which have been only feparated, « and not difTolved by the matter, again ap- « proach each other/ ■ Can any man give a more rational or more true account of this matter, or pro- dace a ftronger argument againft cutting out a part of the inteftine ? The operator's finger cannot reach the upper part of the finus, and therefore he cannot extirpate: but finufes, which, by being out of reach, cannot be extirpated, do well without it, merely by the help of nature; who, when the matter is difcharged, and fuch an opening made as pre- vents any future lodgment, brings the fides of the cavity together, and endeavours thereby to fuch apprehension being quite unnece/Tary, this rifle is out of the queftion. The laft-mentioned author (Heifter) although in general a very exaft and careful writer, feems, in his obfervations on this complaint, rather to have copied what our predeceflbrs have written on it, than to have given us what his own expe- rience might have furnifhed himWith : the latter would have convinced him, that all hjs preparation by bleeding, purging, &c. before the operation, is quite unneceflary; that the blind fiftuhc are very little, if at all more difficult of cure than the open ones; and that the difeafe in queftion admits of being in pregnant women, as perfectly and a« eafily. as in thofe who are not fo. The contrary doftrmes are certainly no rules of good pradice, however venerable they may be from their antiquity. obliterate154 A TREATISE ON1 obliterate it. It is true that fhe can but feldom accomplifh this end entirely 3 I mean, throughout the whole length of the finus; the lower part generally remaining open, though contracted to narrow compafs : this it is moft frequently abfolutely necelTary to divide, in order to obtain a cure ; but that part of the faid finus (if there be any) which is out of the reach of the inftrument guided by the finger in ano is not a matter of that confequence which it is fuppofed to be. If the lower part, or what is fairly within reach, be divided, fuch divifion will, in mod cafes which are curable at all, be fully fufficient for a cure, as I have often and often experienced. I know that this is contrary to the generally- received doctrine, but I know it is true; and am much inclined to believe, that the fuppoiition of the neceffity of laying open the whole linus, however deep it may run, has contributed greatly fo the fatigue and hazard which many people have unneceffari- ly undergone in this difeafe ; it has occafion- ed fuch poking with long probes, and fuch cramming in of tents and dreffings, as have proved extremely pernicious and brought pn fymptoms and trouble, which would not haveTHE FISTULA IN A NO. I55 have attended the fame cafes under other management. One word more, and I have done with this part of my fubject. As I have given my opinion fo freely concerning the prac- tice of excifion, a reprefentation of the in- conveniences likely to arife from it might from me be thought to be an exaggeration: J {hall, therefore, take the liberty once more, to quote Mr. Le Dran ; who, confidered as a patron of the practice, cannot be fuppofed to overcharge it. He fays,—<£ Cette grande " playe fera dans les commencemens pancee " comme les autres j mais quand les chairs *s commencent afe rapprocher, elle demande des attentions particulieres; fans lefquelles, " l'anus deviendroit li etroit que les excre^ " mens ne pourroient y paffer; pour peu e< qu'ils ont de confidence. II faut done " alors metre jufque dans le rectum une " tente de linge, luTe, affez longue, & alfez " groffe, pour entretenir le paffage. II faut " meme fur le fin, fupplier-a cette tente, par " une efpece de fuppofitoire d'yvoire, perce " en forme de cannule; & avoir foin de la " bien affujettir par la bandage, a fin qu'elle " ne forte pas. La cicatrice etant faite, il 6t faudraA TREATISE ON" " faudra que le malade porte cette fuppofi- " toire encore pres dun an; fans quoi la t( cicatrice ferreroit l'anus de plus en plus.'* <—' This large wound mould, at the firft, be 4 drefled like any other ; but when the fides f begin to approach each other, it will then * demand particular attention, left the funda- ' ment fhould become fo contracted, that f the faeces, jf they be at all hard, cannot be f. expelled. Therefore, in order to keep the f pafTage of a proper iige* a fmooth tent * made of linen fhould be introduced; which * tent fhould be of fuch a fize and length, f as to ferve the purpofe for which it is in- f tended. Toward the clofe of the cure, ' in the place of this, an ivory fuppofitory, * made in the form of a cannula, muft be * fubftituted, and kept conftantly in, by * means of a proper bandage. Which fup- * pofitory mufl be worn for near a year after * the fore is perfectly healed j otherwife the * cicatrix will contract the anus flill more ' and more every day \' 1 To which he might haye added, that when all this is done, and every precaution of this kind ufed.the patient will always find it difficult and painful, and ibmetimes abfolutely impoflible ;o retain a looie ftool;—an evil lUll-grcater than the trouble of expelling a hard one. ThisTHE FISTULA IN ANO. t$J This is what is called cutting for a fiftula: this is the operation which they who have undergone it do fo pathetically defcribe and lament, and what they, who have the mif- fortune to be afflicted with the difeafe, do (from the account of others) fo fearfully dread. It is true, that it has the fanction of feveral eminent writers; that it is practifed by many furgeons j and that it is recommended and exhibited by anatomico-chirurgical teach- ers j but, notwithstanding thefe authorities, I fhall not fcruple to fay, that it is cruel, unneceffary, and wrong. That by thefe means abfcefTes juxta anum, and fiftulEe in ano, (as they are called) are cured, I make no doubt j nay, I know that they are: but I alfo know from repeated ex- perience, that they are curable by means which are more expeditious, more eafy, and neither hazardous in the ufe, nor productive of evil in the event. I mean by mere fimple divifion of all that part of the finus which is within reach; by foft, gentle treatment of the fore after fuch operation : and by proper care of the habitk. The k When the habit is out of order, as it moil frequently is in perfons afflitted with this diforder, if recourfe be not had to in- ternal*.A TREATISE ON The haemorrhage, (to fay nothing of the pain) which now and then attends the ex- tirpation of a large piece of the inteftine and fundament, is alarming, both to weak minds and to weak bodies ; and the incon- veniences arifing from lofs of fubftance about the verge of the anus, either in ftrong ternals, the furgeon will gain little ground. This is a circum- flance which ought always to be attended to; and it is in fome meafure owing to a want of due regard to it, that we find fuch a farrago of different dreffings; fuch remedies for fungous, for foul, for callous fores, Sec. Thefe difeafed appearances and circumftances moft frequently proceeded from diforders in the habit; and if that be not corre&ed, the fame appearances will continue, notwithftanding -all our efcharotics, deturgents, digeftives, incarnatives, &c. &c. &c. In cold, debauched, lax, or fluggifh habits, if the patient be not wanned by aromatics, and braced by the bark, thefe cafes will often prove tedious and troublefome. From the induration of the parts about, from the face and colour of the fore, and from the difcoloured gleety difcharge, callofity, latent mifchief, and undifcovered finufes, will be fulpe&ed ; whereas, in truth, neither one nor the other are the caufe of fuch difeafed appearances. The adminiftratiori of proper remedies will, moil commonly, in a few days, produce fuch an alteration, as the whole art of furgery could not (by mere externals) bring about in as many weeks, if at all. Many and many a fore of this kind have I feen brought into the hof- pital, which has had all thefe difagreeable appearances, which has long and fruitlefsly been^treated with all the variety of ex- ternals, and which a decodtion of the bark and rad ferpentarir has, in a very fhort time, put into fuch a condition as to want only dry lint. exercife,THE FISTULA IN ANO." 150 exercife, in the retention of loofe ftools, or the expulfion of hard ones, are fo great, that I have known feveral people who have daily and fincerely wiftied for their uncut fiftulae again: and who, either from pain or uncleanlinefs, or both, have been ren- dered truly unhappy. In fhort, I can venture to aflert from many years experience on a great variety of fubjedts, that when the difeafe is curable by chirurgic art, the method which I have propofed, will, with more eafe, expedition, and certainty, attain that end, than the , method of extirpation; and that without producing any of thofe very difagreeable circumftances which M. Le Dran has fo juftly defcribed. And for the truth of this afiertion I ap- peal to all thofe (many in number) who have for thefe ten or twelve years paft at- tended St. Bartholomew's hofpital. SECT,A TREATISE ON SEC T. VI. Hitherto I have confidered the difeafe either as an abfcefs, from which the matter has been let out by an incifion, made by a furgeon; or from which the Contents have been difcharged by one fingle orifice, formed by the burfting of the fkin fomewhere about the fundament.—I am now to take notice of it, when inftead of one fuch opening, there are feveral. This ftate of the cafe generally happens when the quantity of matter collected has been large, the inflammation of confiderable extent, the adipofe membrane very floughy, and the fkin worn very thin before it burrr. —It is, indeed, a circumftance of no real confequence at all j but from being mils underftood, or not properly attended to, is made one of additional terror to the pati- ent, and additional alarm to the inexperi- enced practitioner: for it is taught, and fre- quently believed, that each of thefe orifices is an outlet from, or leads to a diftincT: finus, or hollow; whereas in truth, the cafe is mofl commonly quite otherwife; all thefe openings tTHE FISTULA IN ANO. I 61 openings are only fo many diftinct burftings of the fkin covering the matter; and do all, be they few or many, lead and open im- mediately into the one fingle cavity of the abfcefs : they neither indicate, nor lead to, nor are caufed by,diftincl finufes; nor would the appearance of twenty of them (if pof- fible) neceffarily imply more than one ge- neral hollow* ; If this account be a true one, it will follow, that the chirurgic treatment of this kind of cafe ought to be very little, if at all, different from that of the preceding; and that all that can be neceffary to be done, muft be to divide each of thefe orifices in fuch manner as to make one cavity of the whole, This the probe knife will eafily and expeditioufly do; and when that is done, if the fore, or more properly its edges, mould make a very ragged, uneven ap- pearance, the removal of a fmall portion of fuch irregular angular parts will anfwer all the purpofes of making room for the application of dreihngs, and for producing a fmooth even cicatrix after the fore mall be healed. Vol. Ill, M WhenlDZ A TREATISE ON When a confiderable quantity of matter has been recently let out, and the internal parts are not only in a crude, undigefted flate, but have not yet had time to col- lapfe, and approach each other; the infide of fuch cavity will appear large; and if a probe be pufhed with any degree of force, it will pafs in more than one direction into the cellular membrane, by the fide of the rectum. But let not the unexperienced practitioner be alarmed at this, and im- mediately fancy that there are fo many diftinct finufes ; neither let him, if he be of a more hardy difpofition, go to work immediately with his diredor, knife, or fcmors: let him enlarge the external wound by making his incifion freely j let him lay all the feparate orifices open into that ca- vity; let him divide the inteftine length- wife by means of his finger in ano; let him drefs lightly and eafily; let him pay proper attention to the habit of the patient; and wait, and fee what a few days, under fuch conduct, will produce. By this he will fre- quently find, that the large cavity of the nbfcefs will become fmall and clean; that .the induration round about will gradually lefien;THE FISTULA IN ANO. 16^ lelfen j that the probe will not pafs in that manner into the cellular membrane; and confequently, that his fears of a multi- plicity of finufes were groundlefs. , On the contrary, if the fore be crammed or drefTed with irritating or efcharotic medicines, all the appearances will be different: the hard- nefs will increale, the lips of the wound will be inverted, the cavity of the fore will re- main large, crude, and foul; the difcharge will be thin, gleety, and difcoloured; the patient will be uneafy and feverifh: and, if no new cavities are formed by the irrita- tion of parts, and confinement of matter, yet the original one will have no opportu- nity of contracting itfelf; and may, very poffibly, become truly nftulous. I will not fay, that there never is more than one finus running along the fide of the inteftine (I mean on the fame fide); but I will venture to affert, that for one inftance in which the cafe is really fo, forty are fup- pofed and talked of. Diflincl and feparate openings in the (kin, from the fame cavity or fmus, are common; but perfectly diftinct finufes, running along the inteftine on the M 2 fameA TREATISE Otf 5 fpecific, fame fide, are very far from being ib- they are very uncommon, I mould be forry to have fuch a mifcon- lTruclian put upon what I have fatd, as to have it fuppofed that I made light of a difeafe which every body knows is fome- times attended with very troublefome cir- cumftances; or that I make pretenfion to any particular fecret method of treating it5 or that I think myfelf more capable cf con- dueling it than the generality of practi- tioners : as none of thefe are true, I fhould be forry to have them imputed to me. I do allow (what is undoubtedly true) that this difeafe, in fome conftitutions, and under fome circumftances, will engage the attention, and exercife the judgment, of the beft and mo ft able practitioner > but on the other hand I mull repeat, that a great deal of the trouble which it is fometimcs attended with, does not arife from the dif- eafe itfelf, but from mifconception, and improper treatment. I have freely, and without referve, re- lated that method of treatment which I have found to be molt fuccefsful; nor do I know any applications which are at allTHE FISTULA IN ANO. fpeclfic, or more proper for this kind of fore than for all others, in parts of the fame ftructure: the molt fitnple, and they which give the lean; pain, are the beft: neither thefe, nor mere dry lint, fhould ever^be in- troduced in larger quantity than can be admitted and borne with eafe; that the fore may not be diftended, but a fair opportunity given to nature to contract it gradually. This every practitioner may be capable of executing, fince it confifts more in abftain- ing from doing mifchief, than in doing any thing which may require particular judg- ment or dexterity. It is true, that the method which I have propofed will con- siderably lefTen the chirurgic apparatus of innruments and dreffings; but it will be at- tended with fuccefs, and produce that which eve^ patient has a right to expect from his furgeon;—a firm cure, in a fhort fpace of time, and with the leaft poflible fatigue. It fometimes happens, that the matter of an abfcefs, formed juxta anum, inftead M 3 of100 , A TREATISE ON of making its way out through the fkin, externally near the verge of the anus, or in the buttock, pierces through the inteftine only. This is what is called a blind in- ternal fiftula : Fijlule borgne interne. In this cafe, after the difcharge has been made, the greater part of the tumefaction fubfides, and the patient becomes eafier. If this does not produce a cure, which, fometimes, though very feldom, happens, fome fmall degree of induration generally remains in the place where the original tumor was 5 upon preflure on this hard- nefs, a fmall difcharge of matter is fre- quently made per anum; and fometimes the expulfion of air from the cavity of the abfcefs into that of the inteftine may very palpably be felt, and clearly heard; the tfools, particularly if hard, and requiring force to be expelled, are fometimes fmeared with matter 3 and although the patient, by the burfting of the abfcefs, is relieved from, the acute pain which the collection occa- sioned, yet he is feldom perfectly free from a dull kind of uneafinefs, efpecially if he fits for any confiderable length of time in one pofture. The real difference between this. 1THE FISTULA IN ANCh 167 this kind of cafe, and that in which there is an external opening (with regard to me- thod of cure)' is very immaterial; for an external opening muff be made, and then all difference c'eafes. In this, as in the former, no cure can reafonably be expected, until the cavity of the abfcefs, and that of the rectum, are made one; and the only difference is, that in the one cafe we have an orifice at, or near the verge of the anus, by which we are immediately enabled to perform that neceffary operation; in the other we muft make one. Some of the beft of the modern writers have, I think, reprefented this ftate of the difeafe in fuch manner as to make it feem to labour under difficulties, which I cannot fay that I ever found it really did • and have thereby thrown the appearance of obfcurity and trouble, on what is generally clear and eafy. In Mr. De la F aye's very excellent notes on Dionis, is the following paffage. <c Lorfque les fiftules n'ont pas d'ouverture " externe, 8c que rien ne defigne le lieu ou '* il faut faire l'operation, ij y a deux " moyens de le decouvrir. Le premier ell M 4 " de168 . A TREATISE ON de 1 invention de feu Mr. Thibam, qui portoit le doigt index dans 1'anus, & le recourboit; eniuite, en le tirant un pen a £ JjM, pour ramener a l'exterieur le foyer [[ de la m^iere, tandis qu'il preffoit avec "un autre doigt les environs du fhnde- f ment> la douleur i% U caufoit au malade < marquoit le lieu ou il falloit faire l'inci- " fion pour rendre la fiftulc complete. Le " fccond eft de Mr. Petit, qui met dans "l'anqs pendant vingt-quaire heures une « tente, qui touchant l'ouverture de la fif. " tule, empeche le pus de s'ecouler, & le ''ramaffe en alftz grande quantite pour " faire a l'exterieur une tumeur, qu' indi- " que le lieu ou il faut faire 1'operation." p- When fiftul£e have no external opening, \ and th^re ^ no mark, whereby to diftin- 4 guifh the place where the operation ought < to be performed, there are two methods 1 of diTcQverlfig it s the firft is that of the « late Mr. Thibaut, who put his fore-finger * into the rectum; and curving it, endea- ' voured to bring the foyer, (that is, the « hollow which furni/hes the matter,) nearer 'to the external part of the fundamentj \ while, with his other finger, he preffedTHE FISTULA IN ANO. 169 s a]j the parts round about: the pain which * he, by thefe means, gave to the patients « marked out the place where the incifion « ought to be made, in o.,<ier to render the s fiftula complete. The fecond method is « that of Mr. Petit: He put into the anus, « for the fpace of twenty-four hours, a f tent; which, by flopping up the orifice * of the fiftula, hindered the matter from < running out into the cavity of the gutj 1 and forced it to be collected in fuch quan- tity as to form an external tumefa&ion, f fufficient to indicate the place where the < operation ought to be performed.' The former of thefe, as far as it depends on that fingle circumftance, that the point where the pain is felt, is the exact place where the opening ought to be made, is, by no means, to be depended upon: the latter method is operofe, troublefome, and, in general, very inefficient for the purpofe. If the orifice, through which the matter has made its way, lies high in the inteftine, a tent cannot be introduced fo as to prefs againft it fufHciently, unlefs it be fo long, and fo large, as to occupy the whole cavity pf the gut. How fatiguing, and how dim-? cult,J7° A TREATISE ON cult, the retention of this, for twenty-four hours, mull be to many people, is eafy to imagine: if the orifice be near to the funda- ment, in the lowtT part of the interline, the poffibility of clofing it may be fomewhat greater j but the inconvenience mutt be nearly the fame, as well as the uncertainty. In fhort, not to enter farther into this totally unneceflary kind of practice, I would advife the man, who thinks to try it, to confider the ltricture made by the contrac- tion of the verge of the anus; the expanfion of the cavity of , the gut, immediately above that ftricture: the great dilatability of the membranes of the interline, and the uneven, wrinkled ftate in which it muft neceffarily be j and then to reflect, how very unlikely it is, that he mould, without filling the whole cavity, Hop or block up' a fmall breach, whofe exact fituation he cannot know or learn. It is true, that by difcharge of the matter into the cavity of the interline, the fluctua- tion of it within the abfcefs is no more to be felt; the tenfion ceafes; the tumor, in great meafure, fubfides; and, confequently, all thefe indications of its fituation difappear: butTHE FISTULA IN ANO. 1JI but I do not remember ever to have feen a fingle cafe of this kind, in which there was not in the buttock, or near to the verge of the anus, either a remaining difcolouration of the fkin, or a hardnefs, or fomething by which the finger of a careful, judicious ex- aminer, could clearly and certainly find where the difeafe was. Each of the circum- ftances juft mentioned do as certainly point out where the hollow leading to the finus is, as the fluctuation of the matter did before the cavity burftj and a knife, or lancet, plunged into this, (provided it be puftied deep enough) will never fail to enter the faid hollow. When this is done, the cafe becomes what is commonly called com- plete, and muft be treated accordingly, SECT. VII. I come now to that ftate of the difeafe, which may truly and properly be called ftftulous. This is generally defined, finus anguftus, callofus, profundus; acri fanie dif- fluens; or, as Dionis tranflates it, " Un ul- " cereI72 A TREATISE ON " cere profond, & caverneux, dont Ycntric " eft etroite, & le fond plus large; avec iffue ft d un pus acre & virulent; & accompagne <c de callofites." P g Various caufes may produce or concur in producing fuch a ftate of the parts concerned as will conftitute a fiftula, in the proper fenfe of the word; that is, a deep, hollow fore, or fm us, all parts of which are fo hardened/ or fo difeafed, as to be abfolutely incapable of being healed, while in that ftate; and from which a frequent or daily difcharge is made, of a thin, difcoloured fanies, or fluid. Thefe I mail take the liberty of dividing into two clalTes, viz. thofe which are the effeft of negledt, diftempered habit, or of bad ma- nagement, and which may be called, without any great impropriety, local difeafes; and thofe which are the confequence of diforders, whofe origin and feat is not in the immedi- ate finus or fiftula, but in parts more or lefs diftant, and which, therefore, are not local complaints. The natures and characters of thefe are obvioufly different by defcription; but they are frill more fo in their moft frequent event; the former being generally curable by proper treatment,THE FISTULA IN ANO. 173 treatment, the latter frequently not fo by any means whatever. Under the former I reckon all fuch eafes as were originally mere collections of matter within the coats of the inteftine redlum, of in the cellular membrane furrounding the faid gut j but which, by being long neglecled, grofsly managed, or by happening in habits which were diforder-ed, and for which difor- ders no proper remedies were adminiftered, fuffer fuch alteration, and get into fuch ftate, as to deferve the appellation of nftulae. Under the latter, are comprifed all thofe cafes in which the difeafe has its origin and firft ftate in the higher and more diftant parts of the pelvis, about the os facrum, lower vertebrae of the loins, and parts adjacent thereto; and are either ftrumous, or the con- fequence of long and much diftempered habits; or the effecl: of, or combined with, other diftempers, local or general fuch as a difeafed neck of the bladder, or proftrate gland, or urethra; the lues venerea, cancers, &c. &c. Among the very low people, who are brought into hofpitals, we frequently meet with cafes, of the former kind; cafes which, at firft, were mere fimple-abfceffes; bat which fromT74 A TREATISE ON 7 fuch from uncleanlinefs, from intemperance, negli- gence, and diftempered conftitutions, become iuch kind of fores, as may be called fiftulous. _ In thefe the art of furgery is undoubtedly, m fome meafure, and at fome time, neceffary; but it very feldom is the £rft or principal fountain from whence relief is to be fought: the general effects of intemperance, debauch- ery, and difeafes of the habit, are firft to be corrected and removed, before furgery can with propriety, or with reafonable profpect of advantage, be made ufe of. If the patient be infected with the lues venerea, that mutt firft be cured; if he be anafarcous, or lcu- cophlegmatic, that indifpofition muft be cor- rected; if he be feverifh, that heat muft be calmed; and if he labour under any of the general ill effects arifing from foul fkin, dirty clothing, unclean and unwholefome lodg- ing, &c. producing pallid countenance, un- due fecretions, lofs of appetite, cedematous legs, intermitting fevers, &c. the ftate of blood which always accompanies fuch complaints rnufl be amended before furgery can be ad- miniftered to any good purpofe. If knife, cauftic, or whatever other external means are thought proper to be ufed, be applied beforeTHE FISTULA IN ANO. 175 fuch general evils have been corrected, they will do little or no good; and may do much mifchief. On the contrary, when the lues is corected; when the patient is cool, and gets goodfleep; when the fecretion of urine is fo re-eftablimed, the general abforbent faculty fa reftored, and the folids fo braced, that the legs ceafe to fwell; and the patient recovers his na- tural appetite and complexion; we find the lo- cal difeafe, inftead of ftanding ftill, has almoft always made great advances towards being cured, by being altered in all the principal circumftances of induration, crudity, gleet, &c. Whatever chirurgic operation or treat- ment may now be neceffary, will, in all probability, fucceed immediately; whereas, all our attempts before fuch care do and mull: prove fruitlefs. The furgery required in thefe cafes con- fifts in laying open and dividing the flnus, or finufes, in fuch manner that there may be no poflible lodgment for matter, and that fuch cavities may be fairly opened length- wife into that of the interline rectum: if the internal parts of thefe hollows are hard, and do not yield good matter, which is fometimes the cafe, more efpecially where attempts have beenI76 A TREATISE ON been made to cure by injecting aftringerit liquors, fuch parts mould be lightly fcratched or fcarified with the point of a knife or lancet, but not dreffed with efcharotics; and if, either from the multiplicity of external orifices, or from the loofe, flabby, hardened, or inverted ftate of the lips and edges of the wound near to the fundament, it feems very improbable that they can be got into fuch a ftate as to heal fmooth and even, fuch portion of them mould be cut off as may juft ferve that purpofe. The dreffings /hould be foft, eafy, and light; and the whole intent of them to produce fuch fuppuration as may foften the parts, and may bring them into a ftate fit for healing. If a loofe, fungous kind of flefh has taken pofleffion of the infide of the finus, (a thing tnuch talked of, and very feldom met with) a flight touch of the lunar cauftic will re- duce it fooner, and with better effect on the fore, than any other efcharotic whatever. The method and medicines by which the habit of the patient was corrected, muft be continued (at lead in fome degree) through the whole cure; and all thofe exceffes and irregularities,th£ fistula in ano. 177 irregularities, which may have contributed to injure it, mull be avoided. By thefe means, cafes which at firft have a moft difagreeable and formidable afpecl:, are frequently brought into fuch ftate, as to give very little trouble in the healing. More trouble muft be fuppofed to attend this kind of cafe, than does a mere fimple, recent abfcefs; and more time will necelfa- rily be required to bring the parts into a kindly (late ; but under proper conduct, they will in general be found to do well, without any of thofe operations which mankind have fuch dread of5 and which are in general taught and practifed. If the bad ftate of the fore arifes merely from the improper manner in which it may have been treated) I mean, from its having been crammed, irritated, and eroded; the method of obtaining relief is fo obvious, as hardly to need recital. A patient who has been fo treated, has generally fome degree of fever; has a pulfe which is too hard, and too quick; is thirfty, and does not get his due quantity of natural reft. A fore which has been fo dreffed, has generally a conftderable degree of inflamma- Vol. Ill, N toryA TREATISE ON tory hardnefs round about; the lips and edges of it are tumid, full, inflamed, and fometimes inverted; the whole verge of the anus is fwollen; the hemorrhoidal veflels are loaded; the di (charge from the fore is large, thin, and difcol'oured; and all the lower part of the reclum participates of the inflammatory irri- tation, producing pain, bearing-down, tenef- in us, &c. Contraria contrariis is never more true than in this inftance : the painful, un- eafy flate of the fore, and of the re&um, is the great caufe of all the mifchief, both ge- neral and particular; and the firft intention muft be to alter that. All efcharotics muft be thrown out, and difufed; and in lieu of them, a foft digeftive mould be fubftituted, in fuch manner as not to Caufe any diften- tion, or to give any uneafinefs from quantity; over which a poultice mould be applied: thefe draftings mould be renewed twice a day; and the patient fhoukl be enjoined ab- folute reft. At the fame time, attention fhould be paid to the general difturbance, which the former treatment may have creat- ed. Blood mould be drawn off from the fanguine; the feverifh heat mould be calmed by proper medicines; the languid and low mouldTrfE FISTULA IN ANO. 179 mould be affifted with the bark and cor- dials; and eafe in the part rauft, at all events, be obtained by the injection of anodyne glyfters of ftarch and opium. If the finus has not yet been laid open, and the bad ftate of parts is occafioned by the introduction of tents imbued with efcharotics, or by the injection of aftrin- gent liquors, (the one for the deftruclion of callofity, the other for the drying up gleet and humidity) no operation of any kind fhould be attempted until both the patient and the parts are eafy, cool, and quiet: cataplafm, glyfters, reft, and proper medi- cines muft procure this : and when that is accomplished, the operation of dividing the finus, and (if neceffary) of removing a fmall portion of the ragged edges, may be exe- cuted, and will, in all probability, be at- tended with fuccefs. On the contrary, if fuch operation be performed while the parts are in a ftate of inflammation, the pain will be great, the fore for feveral days very troublefome, and the cure prolonged or re- tarded, inftead of being expedited. Particular individual cafes may require little particularities in the treatment; but N 2 whatA TREATISE ON 1 cither what I have drawn is the general outline. In this,- as in moft parts of phyfic and furgery, the firft arid great object is, to know what the intention is which ought to be purfued; when that is clear and determined, a man of any degree of knowledge will feldom be at a Iofs for materials wherewith to execute it. Abfcefles, and collections of difeafed fluids are frequently formed about the lumbal vertebra?, under the pfoas mufcle, and near to the os facrum j in which cafes, the faid bones are fometimes carious, or otherwife difeafed. Thefe fometimes form finufes, which ruri down by the fide of the reclum, and burft near to the fundament. The difcharges from thefe are generally large, foetid, thin, and fharp; it is there- fore no wonder that the finufes by which they are made, together with the orifices thereof, become hard and callous; that is, truly fiftulous j but it muft be obvious to every one who will confider it, that the chirurgic treatment of thefe fores and finufes can be of very little confequence towards curing the difeafes from whence they arife: their feat is generally out of the reachTHE FISTULA IN ANO. 181 either of our inftruments, or our applica- tions; and their nature is not frequently found to be capable of being altered by medicine. However that may be, certain it is, that what advantage a perfon in fuch circumftances is at all likely to receive, is not derivable from furgery; but mull be from medicine, or from more powerful nature. Perfons who have long laboured under what is commonly called a cachectic habit have fometimes large collections of matter formed in the cellular membrane within the cavity of the pelvis, which, like the preceding, from finufes, and burft their way out near the anus. Thefe finufes, from the nature of the difcharge, from the depth of the feat of the difeafe, and from the length of time which the drain continues, do aimoft neceflarily become fiftulous.—Such collections do fometimes prove falutary crifes j though much more frequently they haften the patient's diffolution: but be the event which it may, although the fore is certainly fis- tulous, yet can the art of furgery do very little, if any material fervice. If the event be good, the crifis muft be far advanced, N 3 and102 A TREATISE ON and very nearly determined, before any operation, or even dreffing (except what is fuperficial, and merely for the purpofe of cleanlinefs can be of any ufe; and if the difcharge proves too much for the ftrength of the patient, it is pretty clear, that neither the art of furgery, nor indeed any other, can avail him. On the other hand, if it fo happens, that nature is fo powerful, that, by means of this drain, me can free the habit from its former difeafed ftate i or if, by the help of medicine, fuch alteration can be brought about, the fiftula will not prove very troublefome: for the fame alteration, at leaft in fome degree, will be found to have been made in that; and if it be not brought thereby abfolutely into a healing flate, yet it will be found to be fo much altered in its principal circumftances, that the common method, already laid down, will be fully fufflcient for the completion of a cure. We are, by authors, very frequently ad- vifed not to be too hafty in the cure of thefe cafesas the continuance of the difcharge may prove beneficial to the patient. That thefe difcharges are now and then of great advantage,THE-FISTULA IN ANO. 1^3 advantage, is beyond all doubt; but vSry happily for fuch patients, the .healing or not healing thefe fores is very feldom within our determination. We may, indeed, (and I fear often do) by indifcreet conduft, pre- vent a fore from healing, when it is nature's intention that it fhould be healed; but when me finds herfelf relieved, or benefited by a difcharge of this kind, fhe will generally continue it, in fpite of our moft officious endeavours to the contrary. Cancers and cancerous fores are Come-* times formed in the cavity, or in the neighbourhood of the redum, and funda- ment: in which they make moft terrible havock, and afford moft melancholy fpec- tacles. As I do not know what will cure a can- cer, I leave the difcuffion of this to thofe who fay that they do; moft fincerely wifti- ing, that it was in my power to fay, that I had, once in my life, known them to have fulfilled their promife. Fiftulous fores, finufes, and induration about the anus, which are confequences of difeafes of the neck of the bladder, and ]sf ^ urethra,l84 A TREATISE, &C. urethra, called fiftulae in perinaeo, require fcparate and particular confideration. In thefe, the external openings, with the finufes leading from them into the cellular membrane, are the lean: part of the complaint: the ftriclure in the ure- thra, the induration of the whole neck of the bladder, the hardened, fungous, en- larged, or ulcerated flare of the proitate gland, the difeafes of the verumontanum, of the veficulae feminales, and vafa deferentia, are the great and principal objects of confider- ation. A very ferious confideration they cer- tainly make. Great and manifold are the miferies which are derived to mankind from thefe caufesj and much' more diligent in- quiry do they deferve, than they have yet met with: but as they do not immediately belong to my prefent fubject, I rauft omit, or, at leaft, to another opportunity defer, entering into them. OBSERVATIONSOBSERVATIONS O N HEMORRHOIDAL EXCRESCENCES 5 B Y THE EDITOR.( i87 ) OBSERVATIONS, &c. In the account of Mr. Pott's life I have averted that he had been remarkably fucceff- ful in the treatment of thofe painful excre- fcences which are produced from within the verge of the anus, and the removal of which when large, firm, and indurated, has generally- been thought dangerous and unadvifable. Mr. Pott had entertained a defign of writing on this fubject, to leffen the apprehenfion of practitioners, by pointing out in what cafes an operation may be fafely performed. The method which he employed was not new, it has been defcribed and recommended by writers, and has been frequently pracYifed on piles in a fmall and flaccid ftate, but he often aflerted he knew no one who would attempt to apply it to the advanced ftate of the com- plaint; as far as my experience leads me, I believe his affertion ftrictly founded, or if it be practifed by ibme, it is by no means generally103 OBSERVATIONS ON they generally adopted. During the laft ten years of Mr. Pott's life he had many oppor- tunities of performing this operation • moft of the patients I attended with him, and found that feveral of them had previoufly confulted other eminent furgeons from whom they had not met with a propofition for a radical cure; in others the difeafe had been abfolutely abandoned as an incurable cancer. For thefe reafons Mr. Pott thought it a fubject well worthy of the confideration of practitioners. It is certainly a difeafe which, whoever labours under, muft lead a miferable exigence, con- fequently every attempt towards the relief of it muft be proportionably valuable. I there- fore conceive that a few hints on this fubjecl will not be an improper appendix to the foregoing treatife, or unacceptable to the reader. As I profefs only to give a fketch of tbe difeafe, and fuch an account of our author's treatment of it, as I can collect: from me- mory, a perfect hiftory will not be ex- pected from me. I can only undertake to point out its leading characters, and thofe circumftances in the operation which chiefly deferve attention; and fincerely regret thatHEMORRHOIDAL EXCRESCENCES. 189 they were not laid before the public in Mr. Pott's fuperior manner. The inteftinum rectum is well known to be fubject to a variety of difeafes, from vari- ous caufes; from its ftructure, ufe, and office, and from its fituation, which renders it liable to be preffed upon by the whole power of the abdominal mulcles: it is alfo fenfibly af- fected by its connection with other parts in its vicinity, and it often affects them. The difeafes we are to treat of are tumors originally formed within the rectum, and produced by a diftention of the hemorrhoidal veffels: in this ftate they are confidered as inward piles, and give little trouble or uneafi- nefs. In more or lefs time the tumors being increafed in fize are forced down in going to ftool, and return back when the abdominal mufcles ceafe to act; foon after, grown larger, they return with difficulty, and require a confiderable time and preffure before they will return : by degrees they are more irritable and painful to the touch j at length they become indurated and flationary, and are not to be reduced by any means, but are extremely inconvenient, and painful in the greateft degree. In fome cafes, while they areS9° OBSERVATIONS ON in this fituation, the fphindter ani binds fo tight round their bafis as to produce a morti- Acation of them, and thus effect a natural cure, analogous to that which we recom- mend. Mr. Pott obferved, that it might afford matter of furprize to find that fuch tumors on their firft production contain nothing but coagulated blood; perhaps this blood, at firft either ftagnating in the hemorrhoidal veffels, or poffibly effufed under the interna] coat of the redum, may, in time, become organifed; this organic mafs being irritated by frequent and fevere preffure, may enlarge and become firm and flefhy excrefcences: in this ftate they frequently furnifli a difagreeable fanies, or bloody difcharge, and acquire an irritated,' malignant appearance. There are other tumors produced in this part from various caufes; as an enlargement of the febaceous glands, at the verge of the anus, and excrefcences arifing from a venereal or cancerous difpofition in the habit, which in general are eafily diftinguifhable from thofe here defcribed. The venereal verrucae or excrefcences are a frequent fymptom of that poifon, and are wellHEMORRHOIDAL EXCRESCENCES. I9I well known to practitioners. They differ in every refpect from the tumors we treat of: the bans of them is generally broad; they do not arife from the interline, nor particularly from the verge of the anus, but indifcrimin- ately from thence and from the fkin in the neighbourhood. They are rather flat than elongated: they may be tender to the touch, but, unlefs when exafperated by ftimulating applications,, are feldom productive of pain. In females, the fame fpecies of excrefcence frequently furrounds the anus, covers the ex- ternal parts of the labia pudenda and the in- ternal of the thighs, feeming to be propagat- ed in moift parts by contact: by neglect they fometimes fpread over the groins and pubis, making a large fungous mafs, feparable into diftinct excrefcences. It is ufelefs to attempt the removal of them, until the poifon be eradicated from the conftitution, when, though fometimes obftinate and liable to re- production, they may generally be made to fhrink away by proper topical applications. Thofe which arife from a cancer within the rectum, and being thruft out appear ex- ternally, are more liable to be confounded with the complaint we mean to defcribe, as they*92 ' OBSERVATIONS Orf they referable each other in many circum* fiances: both afe hard, fwelled, and painful; both at times furnifh a difagreeabJe fanious difcharge; in both cafes the patients have the fame leaden pallid countenance. There are however fome leading features of diftinc- tion which may be noticed; in the cancerous protrufions the bafis is generally harder, more incomprefTible, and broader; and has its origin higher up in the rectum, commonly occupy- ing the whole circumference of the inteftine, ■which fo ftraitens the paffage that the fseces are expelled with difficulty, and are com^ preffed into a flat or angular form. In the cancerous affedion of the return, the parts fometimes feel foft like a rotten fubftance. The pain of the cancerous, or malignant fungi, is unremitting j whether they are exter- nal, or returned within the fphin&er, the pa- tient is never at perfect eafe, but complains of ihooting pains in the region of the loins. The pain attending the hemorrhoidal tumors is fometimes great while they are external; but when this arifes from the ftriclure of the fphincler, if they can be returned within the rectum, it foon ceafes. When they have been long protruded in anHEMORRHOIDAL EXCRESCENCES. IQ} an irreturnable ftate, by degrees they become accommodated to frequent preffure and un- lefs irritated by an accefs of inflammation to the conftitution from exercife, wine, im- proper food, or other caufes, they are com- monly not fo painful as at their firft exit. In both fpecies of tumor anodyne injec- tions give eafe, but lefs in the cancerous j the return of pain alfo in them is more imme- diate, more violent and lancinating. In the prefent ftate of medical knowledge we are confined to a defcription of this dreadful dif- eafe, any chirurgical attempt to remove it would but aggravate the mifchief. A protrufion of the reftum is alfo not an uncommon complaint in perfons of a debili- tated conftitution: Mr. Pott obferved, that people who have accuftomed themfelves to aloetic purges, are particularly fubject to this complaint j and he remarked that it is fometimes only a fymptom of a generally re- laxed ftate of the internal coat of the inteft tine, through the whole extent of the canal; in which cafe he always recommended the drinking lime-water, which, joined with the bark, he had found to be very materially ferviceable. He obferved that this complaint Vol. III. O mightl04 OBSERVATIONS ON might often be entirely removed by anodyne glyfters i but he did not approve of auWent applications to the part. Fortunately the procidentia ani is not eafily confounded with the complaint we are now confidering. The two difeafes are perfectly diftin&j the one is a protrufion of the gut, the other is an excrefcence or en- largement of the verTels at the verge of the anus, protruded in many diftindt portions or lobes j of a dark, dufky-red colour ; and in every refped different from the procidentia abovementioned. When by long continuance and repeated irritations thefe tumors are formed into large unreturnable excrefcences, nothing but the hand of, furgery can give relief; this is the fiate of the complaint, in which I think the practice of Mr. Pott deferves our attention. However large and formidable the appearance of the excrefcences, if there was no fymptom of cancerous- malignity, nor any contra-indi- cation in the constitution or habit of the pa- tient, Mr. Pott always recommended the removal of them. Having feen profufe and dangerous haemorrhages from the ufe of the knife in thefe cafes, particularly in one in- stance,HEMORRHOIDAL EXCRESCENCES. I 95 ftance, in which the patient nearly loft his life, he always preferred the ligature. The following was his method of performing the operation:—When the patient, byftraining, as if going to ftool, had forced out the tu- mors as far as could be done, he laid hold of one of each tumor or lobe, feparately, with a blunt double hook, and drew it gently out- wards until he difcovered the bafis of it, which is ufually fmaller and lefs indurated than the part which has been expofed to friction; then giving the hook to be held by an affiftant, he flipped a ligature, previoufly tied in a loofe knot, as near to the bafis as polftble: when he was fatisfied that the liga- ture comprehended the whole lobe he drew it tight, taking particular care to diferiminate between the natural fkin and the tumor: none of the former, however elongated, mould ever be included in the ligature; for, when the tumor is removed, this will corrugate and retire to its proper place, while the lofs of any coniiderable portion of it, by con- trailing and ftraitning the parts, would create an inconvenience feverely felt in riding, or any other exercife, and alfo in the natural functions of thofe parts. In the fame manner O 2 Mr,I96 OBSERVATIONS ON Mr. Pott proceeded to treat the remainder of the lobes, one after another, taking care not to include more in each ligature than was neceflary; if the bafis was very broad, a circumftance which feldom hap- pened, he paffed a needle armed with a dou- ble ligature through the middle, and tied them on each fide. In this manner I have feen him treat fuc- cefsfully feveral cafes, in which the tumors had increafed to a confiderable magnitude, particularly two, where they were at leaft from eight to ten inches in circumference; they had been of long ftanding and were ex- quifitely fenfible. The patients had long been in a ftate of hopelefs mifery, almoft wholly excluded from fociety, debarred from all exercife, and not able to fit but in a chaife perceej the appearances in both thefe cafes were very fimilar; from the turgidity, at firft fight, uniform, but on examination they were divided into diftinct- tumors; which Mr. Pott carefully feparated and treated as has been defcribed. The operation fucceeded per- fectly well in both j and from that time neither of the patients has experienced the leaft in- convenience, or return of the difeafe. I never fawHEMORRHOIDAL EXCRESCENCES. 197 favv any kind of mifchief or alarming fymp- tom from this method of extirpating this dif- eafe, except in one unfavourable fubjedt, who had been liable to complaints about the neck of his bladder; in him the operation brought on a return of his old maladies, ftrangury and fuppreffion of urine, which induced a necef- fity of ufing the catheter for fome time; but this fubfided, and left him as foon as the tu- mors were feparated. I do not mention this cafe as a prohibition to the operation,-but to fhew that it is right to attend carefully to the parts contiguous, which are liable to be affected by the neceffary inflammation; that, if the patient has been fubjec~t. to complaints about the bladder, proper care may be taken to obviate and prevent them. Except this, I know of no harm which ever does, or can arife from the operation. Particular care mould be taken to draw the ligature fufficiently tight; if it be at all too Hack, fome veffels remain- ing pervious, the circulation will be continued in fome part, by which the duration of the pain, and the exigence of the tumors will be protracted. In general, the parts lofing their nourifhment die and drop off in four or live days. I need not mention that a proper an- O 3 tiphlogifticI98 OBSERVATIONS ON tiphlogiftic regimen both-before and after the operation fhould be obferved. An ano- dyne injection thrown up the rectum half an hour previous to the operation will be effica- tious in lefTening the fubfequent uneafinefs; a foft poultice will be found to be the befr. topical application. The following cafes were obligingly com- municated to me by Mr. Harvey, who attend- ed them with Mr. Pott, and took notes of them at the time ; they will greatly tend to elucidate the nature of the complaint, and the excellence of the remedy, which I have en- ideayoured to defcribe. A Gentleman of about fifty years of age, and of a nervous irritable conftitution, had been'during many years of a coftive habit of body, and generally had recourfe to aloe- tic pills to procure ftools. About two years before Mr. Pott faw him he firft perceived a pain and fwelling within the rectum, which was very troublefome whenever he attempted to difcharge his faeces; until at length the dif- iiculty of evacuating them became fo great, . thatHEMORRHOIDAL EXCRESCENCES. 199 that he was obliged to inject oil, and to fit over the fteam of warm- water, before he could obtain any natural relief. He was ob- liged to be very ftrict in his diet, as any food which was apt to occafion hardened faeces mod certainly gave him excruciating pain. The frequent trainings had made a pro- lapfus of the gut habitual j neither could he get rid of the faeces, unlefs the excrefcences were firft protruded beyond the anus. In this fituation he travelled from Cork to Lon- don for Mr. Pott's advice. I mould have obferved that the furgeons he had before con- fulted were led to believe, from the ufual re- medies for the piles not having benefited him, and from the unalterable hardnefs of the tumors, that they were cancerous. When I firft faw him, he was much weakened by the conftant irritation, and probably by the continual ichorous difcharge, which was fo profufe as to wet through many folds of linen in the courfe of a few hours. Mr. Pott immediately propofed the operation for re- moving them j and in this cafe, as in the others, he preferred doing it by ligature rather than by the knife or fciffors: round the anus there hung a loofe flaccid (kin, which Mr. O 4 Pott200 ' OBSERVATIONS ON PoTTfuppofed had been a double fold of the inner coat of the gut protruded, and which had loft its natural texture and co- lour. The firfl excrefcence which appeared feemed large enough to have filled the circumference of the interline; it had a broader bafis than I have ufually fince feen, therefore Mr. Pott paffed a double ligature through; and tying them on each fide left it to flough off, which it did in a few days; afterwards two fmaller ones came forward, were held by the hook, and furrounded by the ligature $ they alfo came away in the poultices, and the Gentleman returned home in the courfe of three weeks perfectly cured. The progrefs and fymptoms of the other cafes' were nearly the fame, therefore I need not be minute in defcribing them. CASE II. MRS.r—had been many years dreadfully afflicted with this difeafe, and the furgeons of the town where fhe refided pronounced it abfolutely to be a cancer; her pain prevent- ed her from walking or fitting upright, and fhe lay on a fofa patiently expecting a painful death.HEMORRHOIDAL EXCRESCENCES. 201 death- Mr- Pott faw her during one of his cxcurfions to Worcefter, me followed him to London, and the operation was performed fo fuccefsfully, that not only the excrefcences were removed, but her health and fpirits, which were before wretchedly reduced, were again perfectly reftored. The excrefcence in this cafe was large, rugged, and unequal in its furface; it had an ulcerous appearance, and very well authorifed the opinion which the furgeons in the country had given of it. CASE III. A Gentleman between thirty and forty came from Cariifle on account of this com- plaint to Mr. Pott. I have feldom feen a man more debilitated or nervous; the lead: furprize made him hyfterical: he had la- boured under the difeafe about a year ; and, from his peculiar irritability, it was accompa- nied with fpafms at the neck of the bladder, pain in the urethra, and a difcharge from the penis, as well as from the rectum, which was alfo protruded. Two excrefcences were re- moved, and afterwards two leffer ones, not having their fupport, came forward and were 2 likewife202 OBSERVATIONS, &C. likewife taken away.—This Gentleman fuf- fered more pain at, and after the operation, than in any inftance I have feen ; he had a fmall fever, and a great tendency to ftran- gury; with the exhibition of anodyne and proper antiphlogiftic remedies he recovered, the protruded interline returned, the irrit- ation at the neck of the bladder left him, and he gained a very improved ftate.of health. I have feen many other cafes, but do not recoiled* any material difference in them from thofe I have already mentioned. CHIRURGICALCHIRURGICAL OBSERVATIONS RELATIVE TO THE CAT ARACT, THE POLYPUS of the NOSE, the CANCER of the SCROTUM, THE DIFFERENT KINDS of RUPTURES, AND THE MORTIFICATION of the TOES and FEET.PREFACE* The first of the following tracts contains fome re- marks on a difeafe, to which- perfons of every rank and con- dition are liable ; and by which they are rendered truly un- happy. From an unpardonable indolence, or an equally blamable timidity, it has been too much the cuftom in this country, to leave the management of this complaint to pretenders and itinerants, fome of whom have been, in fome degree, acquainted with the organ and its difeafes, others moft grofsly ignorant of both ; confequently the benefits, and the misfortunes, which have attended their undertakings have been various. With thefe I have nothing to do; but cannot help taking the liberty to obferve, that until the profeffion in general have made themfelves capable of being eflentially ferviceable to mankind in this point, they muft not be furprized that the unfortunate and unknowing give credit to fair promifes. "What I mail, in the following pages, advance, regarding the cataract, is not the confequence of a mere defire to write, but arifes from a conviction founded on frequently- repeated experience, that we have, within a few years paft, reprobated an operation which, in proper hands, is capable of producing great good ; and have fubftituted in its place another, which though perhaps right and ufeful, in fome particular inftances, has, by being too generally pradtifed, occafioned much mifchief. * N. B. This Preface was, through negligence, omitted in the 4to. edition, I fhould206 PREFACE. I fhould be forry to have what I fay mifunderftood: I do by no means intend either to praife or blame indifcrimi- nately ; I think that each operation has its merit: but I alio think, and know, that we have almoft laid afide one, for reafons which are not founded in truth; and that we have rather haftily patronifed and praftifed the other, with- out duly attending to its very frequent ill confequences. - The second traft regards a difeafe which is mentioned, indeed, in moft books of furgery, but in general not in fuch manner as to enable a young practitioner to form a proper judgment of it. By fome, it is pafled over fo llightly, that an ignorant reader might be induced to fup- pofe that it could never occafion much trouble or hazard: by others, it is regarded merely as requiring a chirurgic operation, to the performance of which their whole atten- tion is paid; while, both by the one and the other, the material circumftances of the difeafe are overlooked, and no rules laid down whereby to determine on the propriety or impropriety of any chirurgic attempt whatever. The fubjecT: of the third has not (at leaft to my knowledge) been publicly noticed. All who have the care of hofpitals in this town know, that the chimney-fweeper's cancer is as real, and as peculiar a diftemper as any of the morbi artificum j and a very melancholy confideration it is to thofe who are neceflarily in the way of being liable to it. The fourth is the refult of a cuftorri which I have many years praftifed; that of making memoranda of whatever appeared to me to be either unufual in itfelf, or attended with any Angularity of circumftances. The fifth is on a difeafe, which has fo generally foiled all the attempts of art, as to be by many reckoned among thofe which are out of its reach. This truth, though fome- timesPREFACE. 107 times undeniable, is always acknowledged with reluctance; and reafons, good or bad, are therefore always fought for, and civen for our difappointment. In the prefent cafe, a defect of circulation, an offification of veflels, a want or depravity of the nervous fluid, with fome other conjectures, equally ingenious, whimfical and groundlefs, are offered. Whatever may be the original caufe of the mortification of the toes and feet, certain it is, that acute pain is one of its firft and moft conftant fymptoms ; and as certain it is, that while fuch pain continues, no ftop is, or can be put to the progrefs of the diftemper. , The ideas of defeftive circula- tion, want of fenfibility in the nerves, of malignity, putre- faction, &c. have, in my opinion, milled us from a proper confideration of this deftructive malady, and have put us on a plan of practice, which, as far as it relates to externals, feems to me to be oppofite to that which ought to be pur- fued, and to render the difeafe more intractable, and more certainly fatal. Inftead of cooling, we endeavour to excite heat; and when the parts which yet retain life and fenfa- tion, are in fuch ftate as to be moft liable to, and fufceptible of irritation, we apply to them hot, pungent oils, balfams, and tinctures, and wrap them up in cataplafms made of fuch ingredients as are more calculated to anfwer the pur-«- pofe of ftimulating,' than of appeafing. In fhort, I cannot help thinking that we have, in this cafe, done what our forefathers did in that of wounds made by gun-fhot; that is, we have formed conjectures concerning the nature of the diftemper which are not true, and then have built a practice on thefe erroneous guefles. 1 The ftrange notions which our anceftors entertained con- cerning the effects of fire, the poifon of gunpowder, the malignity, and the putrefactive difpofition of gun-fttot Wounds, led them to overlook the obvious and neceflary effects of a high degree of contufion and laceration, and induced2o8 PREFACE. induced them to have recourfe to fuch means, as though perfectly agreeable to their theory, neceffarily increafed the pain, the inflammation, and the irritation vyhich they mould have endeavoured to foothe and appeafe. What the confequence of their treatment too frequently was, themfelves have told us; what that of attending more to the true nature of the cafe, and of acTring from fuch con- fideration has been, our/foldiers and lailors have of late years happily experienced. Perhaps fome of the cafes which I have related in the fourth tra£t, may not appear to others to be fo worthy of notice as they did to me. Some of them, I cannot help thinking, may deferve the attention of the younger part of the profeflion, to whofe information I wifh to contribute. Difeafes have, it is true, in general, a fort of regularity and order, a feries of caufes and events, by which they are known and diftinguiftied, yet we do now and then meet with fuch odd irregularities, fuch ftrange and unufual con- fequenceSj as puzzle and alarm even the foundeft judgment) and the longeft experience; and unlefs thefe be noted, the hiftory of diftempers will be imperfect. From writers of fyftems and inftitutes, (of furgery at leaft) fuch kind of knowledge is not to be expe&ed. They are raoft frequently mere compilers, and do little more than copy each other. The information which they convey, is at beft but fuperficial, and much more calculated to enable man to talk, than either to judge or to act. It mpft be from a careful attention to the cafes of individuals, and from an obfervation of difeafes, in their irregular and infrequent forms, as well as their more cuftomary ones, that true and extenlive judgment can be acquired. If therefore a faithful relation of thefe lefs-ufual circum- ftances and appearances, both in the living and in the dead, was more frequently made, it might be produ&ive of no final!PREFACE. 209 fmall improvement: it would npt be confined to the adding a few anomalous, eccentric cafes to our books, tending to excite our admiration only) but might be made to ferve a much more valuable purpofe; it might guard us againft too haftily determining in cafes of real, or of feeming obfcurity, and might prevent u?, now and then, from fuppofing things to be incapable of being accounted for, merely becaufe we have not yet learned how to account for them; it might perhaps lelfen our faith in general doctrines and theories, but it would render us more attentive to fa&s, and thereby furnilh us with a much more ufeful kind of knowledge. Perhaps alfo> upon a more clofe and frequent ex- amination, we might find, that fome of thefe very cafes are neither fo rare, nor fo intra&able as we have hitherto believed them to be. But be that as it may, certain it is, that from fuch inquiry, we mould at lead: get one kind of information—we fhould be furnifhed with good and fatisfa&ory reafons, why our beft attempts fo frequently fail: I fay fatisfaclory, becaufe I cannot, help thinking, that next to the pleafure of being able to relieve the diftrefles of mankind, is the fatisfaclion of knowing that it was not in our power fo to do. Many and great are the improvements which the chirurgic art has received within thefe laft fifty years; and much thanks are due to thofe who have contributed to them : but when we reflect how much ftill remains to be done, it fhould rather excite our irrduftry than inflame our vanity. Our fathers thought themfelves a great deal nearer to perfection than we have found them to be ; and I am much miftaken, if our fucceffors do not, in more infiances than one, wonder both at our inattention and our ignorance. Notwithftanding all our late real improvements, there is Vol. III. P ftillno PREFACE. ftill ample room to exercife all the powers of many Suc- ceeding artifts, and to furnifh them with large opportunity of acquiring honour to themfelves, and of doing much praife-worthy fervice to mankind : the art is ftill defective, and the words of Seneca are ftill, in fome degree, as true as when he wrote them,' " Multum adhuc reftat operis, " multumque reftabit; nec ulli nato poft mille fecula H prxcludetur occafio aliquid adhuc adjiciendi." REMARKSREMARKS ON T H £ j CATARAC T. Notwithstanding the variety of oper- ations and proceffes which, for the relief or cure of this difeafe, are to be found in almoft all the books of our forefathers, yet it is very certain that, until within thefe laft fifty years, neither the ftate,- nature, nor feat of it were truly known j at leaft not to the practitioners of furgery. Wild and various were the conjectures concerning it: it was by fome faid to be a diftemper of the vitreous humour j by others of the aqueous: by fome it was thought to be a condenfation of earthy particles; by others a membranous film: it was faid by P 3 Jfome2I2 REMARKS ON I fome to be anterior, by others, pofterior to the pupil; it was often confounded with the gutta ferena, and fometimes even with an opacity of the cornea. Accident, one great fource of many an ufeful difcovery both in phyfic and furgery, firft proved it to be a diftemper of the corpus cryftallinum; to be in general abfolutely confined to it, and to confift of a greater or lefs degree of opacity: and now, as is ufbal in all fuch cafes, we are convinced, that all the attempts, and all the operations which ever were made, or practifed to any good purpofe, either for its relief or its cure, could be fuccefsful only as they affected that body. From the knowledge of its feat, and of one of the principal circumftances of its na- ture, we have been enabled to direct our at- tempts more rationally, and to act with a greater degree of precifion and fatisfaclion; but ftill from all I have been able to collect, either from books or from practitioners, there are fome material circumftances rela- tive to Jthe difeafe, which are not rightly, at leaft fK>t generally understood; fome re- mains of the old doctrine ftill continue to in- fluenceTHE CATARACT. 21$ P 3 fharc fiuence both our opinion and practice; fome things are taken for granted which are by no means true; and practical inferences are drawn from others, which are not admiffible. Whether an attempt to fet fome of thefe in a clearer light, will or ought to be attended with any alteration in the treatment of the diftemper, muft be left to others to deter- mine: I mall content myfelf with relating, as briefly as I can, fome few particulars which appear to me to deferve attention. One general opinion among our anceftors was, that every cataract had its feafons; was at one time immature or unripe, at another mature or ripe; and that the term unripe, ne- ceflarily implied a foft, that of ripe, a hard, or firm ftate of the cryftalline. The opinion was a neceffary confequence of the theory then moft frequently embraced, and was therefore generally credited; and, as very often happens with regard to pre-con- ceived notions, it was thought to be confirm-, ed by fads. This doctrine has, it is true, been con- tradicted by fome of our beft modern "prac- titioners; but flill it not only remains the opinion of many, but has a very considerable214 REMARKS ON fhare in determining the preference fuppofed to be due to one method of operating over another. The terms imply, and are generally un- der ftood to mean, that every cataract is at firft foft, through its whole fubftance; and that by degrees, in more or lefs time, it becomes hard and firm, or at leaft harder and firmer than the natural cryftalline: which latter circumftance is by no means true, either neceflarily or even generally. I will not fay that it never is: but I can venture to affirm, that it moft frequently is not. Some of our remote anceftors borrowed their ideas on this fubject from the kernals of fruits, to which they have indeed compared the cataract: but the no- tions of ripe and unripe, have remained with many who were aware of the exceed- ing abfurdity of the comparifon. If this was a merely fpeculative point, it would be a matter of very little importance; but as a practical inference is drawn from it, that the early, or fuppofed unripe ftate is an improper one for an operation, and that therefore a patient mould wait for a later or ripe one, it becomes a matter of confider- 8 ableTHE CATARACT. 215 able confequence to fuch perfon whether he fliall or (hall not continue blind all that very uncertain fpace of time. Neither is this all, material as it may feem: for the fame doc- trine implies, that the firft degree or appear- ance of obfcurity, however foft the cryftalhne may then be, will certainly be followed by an induration of it; or in other words, that the cryftalhne is firft rendered foft merely and only to become hard afterwards: that the fame firft or foft ftate is not proper for an operation, becaufe it would ncceflarily render it unfuccefsfulj and that an increafed degree of opacity and obfcurity, may in ge- neral be regarded as marks of increafed firm- nefs: not one of which is true. The natural, found, tranfparent cryftal- hne, is very far from being uniform in its confidence through its whole fubftance: its external part, is much fofter, and more gela- tinous than its internal i which therefore, although equally tranfparent, may be faid to form a kind of nucleus, and is always of much firmer texture3. From this found and natural f If this known difference of confluence between the ex- ternal and internal parts of the cryftalline was duly attended P4 t0'2I6 REMARKS ON natural ftate, it is capable of feveral morbid alterations: it is capable of being dhTolved, or of becoming fluid, without lofing any thing of its tranfparency1': it is capable of being diffolved into an apparently uniform fluid of a gelatinous kind of confidence, but which will be more or lefs opake through the whole; it fometimes becomes opake while it undergoes a partial kind of dilu- tion, which leaves or renders the different parts of it of very different degrees of con- fidence; and it now and then, though very to, it would folve many of the appearances in catarafts which, for want of fuch attention, are either not accounted for, or very abfurdly. Among other phenomena, it would account for the very different colour which the different parts of the fame cataract frequently bear; and which has furnj/hed the wildeft conjectures. b It has been fuppofed, by very good anatomifts, that the human cryftalline has fometimes, between its furface and its capfula, a fmall quantity of fine pellucid lymph; and confe- quently that there is no immediate connexion between that body and its inverting membrane. In many beails, as well as fifties; this is known to be the cafe; but whether it be fo in the human eye, is not very eafy to be known during life; but that this is the cafe, fometimes from dillemper, I have no doubt: I mean, that the whole cryftalline is diffolved into a fluid, ftill preferving its tranfparency. This kind of alteration, as I take it, forms what is by fome called one fpecies of the gutta ferena; by others, the black cataraft. rarely,THE CATARACT. 217 rarely, becomes opake through its whole fubftance, and yet preferves its natural de- gree of firmnefsc. Whenever the cryftalline becomes fofter than it (hould be, or tends towards fuch ftate, it is certainly diftempered, and unfit for perfect vifion, whether it be opake or not, or whatever its degree of opacity may be: but whoever fuppofes that fuch fof-^ tened and opake cryftalline will neceffarily, or even frequently, acquire firmnefs, or be- come hard by time, is exceedingly miftaken. Opacity, though now and then accompanied by what is called induration, is no proof of it, nor of any tendency towards it; fo far from it, that fome of the moft diflblved or fluid catara&s, and which have been fo for the greater!: length of time, are found full as qpake as the moft firm ones. Whoever has an opportunity of obferving this diftemper, and will embrace it, will find that cataracts which have in a length of time gone through all thofe alterations of c From this variety of alteration, which the cryftalline is c apable of undergoing, proceeds that variety of appearance which our anceftors have called fo many different kinds of cataracts. colour,21 8 REMARKS ON colour, which are faid to indicate unripenefs, and ripenefs, are often as perfectly foft as they ever could have been; and on the other hand, will fometimes find them what is call- ed firm or hard very foon after the firft ap- pearance of obfcurity. That is, to fpeak more truly, as well as more properly,' the former having been at firft diffolved, have remained in the fame ftate of dirTolution; and the latter, having been at firft only par- tially foftened, have been found in the fame unequal ftate, with a firm nucleus"1. When, therefore, I make ufe of the term induration, I do it in compliance with the common method of fpeaking; and not be- caufe I think that it conveys, by any means, an adequate idea of the real alteration made in the ftate of the cryftalline: far from it; it neither conveys an idea of the nature, nor d For this there is no poffibility of accounting rationally, but by having recourfe to the natural ftate of the cryftalline, with regard to the different confiflence of its different parts. This will account for the alterations to which it is liable from time, accident, ordiftemper: this will Ihow why there is no uniform- ly and univerfally hard cataraft; why, in all of them, the fofteft part is always on the furface; why, even in the hardeft, the central part is always the moft firm ; and why the external and internal parts of the fame cataradl, are fo often fo differ- ent from each other in colour.THE CATARACT1, 210 of the extent of fuch alteration: with regard to the former, the term induration can with propriety be ufed only in oppofition to a per- fect or general diftempered diffolution; by much the majority of what are called firm catarads, being much lefs firm than the fame cryftalline was before fuch alteration: and with regard to the latter circumftance, the extent of the mifchief, it is fubjecl: to the greateft degree of uncertainty j being feldom or never an induration of the whole body, but moft frequently a firmifh kind of nu- cleus, of greater or lefs fize, contained within more or lefs of a gelatinous, or fofter kind of fubftance: fo that the nucleus is called firm only in oppofition to what envelopes it. In (hort, if we would think and fpeak of this matter as it really is (or as it appears to me to be) inftead of ufing the terms foft and hard in oppofition to each other, and as implying different effeds either of time or of diftemper on the cryftalline, we mould fay, that diffolution or foftening, in fome degree, is by much the moft common effect: that except in fome few inftances, where that body retains its natural firmnefs while it lofes its tranfparency, the moft frequent confequence220 REMARKS ON ' confequence is a foftening of its texture, either partial or total: and that feven times in nine, when the cryftalline becomes opake, and tends towards forming a cataract, it is more or lefs foftened; fometimes equally through its whole fubftance, fometimes par- tially, having a greater or lefs portion left undhTolved, This undiifolved part, which always makes what is called a hard cataract, may indeed be called firm in oppofition to the fofter, by ■which it is furrounded; but even this very part is hardly, if ever, fo firm as the centre of the natural and found cryftalline. I beg the reader's pardon for having been fomewhat prolix, but the fubjecl: did not ap-* pear to me to have been properly attended to. It would be exceedingly pleafant, as well as advantageous, if we could, previous to an operation, know the true ftate of an opake cryftalline: it would enable a furgeon to determine his mode of operating with more precifion, and to explain what his intention by fuch method was: it would give fatisfac^ tion to himfelf as well as to ftanders-byj and make that appear to be judicious and rational, which, under our prefent uncer- tain ty,THE CATARACT. 241 tainty, has often the appearance of being accidental, and done at random. It is agreed by all, who have carefully con- fidered this fubject, and who are ingenuous enough to fpeak the truth, that the mere co- lour of a cataract furnifhes no proof, to be by any means depended upon, relative to its confidence* and that they which appear greyifh, or bluifh, or like whey, are fometimes found to be firm and renftent, while the more equally white ones are perfectly foft. I do not mean to affert, but merely to pro- pofe, to the confideration of fuch as may have leifure and opportunity, whether when the opake cryftalline is quite diffolved, fo as to form a foft cataract, it is not, at the fame time, fomewhat enlarged and whether when fuch dhTolution does not take place, and what is called a hard cataract is formed, the crystalline is not, in fome degree, lelfened or fhrunk. Among the circumftances which have concurred to incline me to be of this opinion, is this; that when the pupil has been obferved to be always in a ftate of dilatation, even when expofed to a ftrong light, and although capable of motion, yet never222 REMARKS OK never to contract in the ufual manner I have moft commonly found the cataract to have been foft; and, on the contrary, when the pupil has been capable of full and per- fect contraction over the cataract, I. think that it has moft commonly proved firm; and this difference I have more than once obferved in the different eyes of the fame perfon. The greater degree of facility with which the firm cataract quits its place, and paries through the pupil upon the divifion of the cornea, does not leffen the probability of this opinion. I could alfo wtfh that they who have opportunity would inquire, whe- ther the cataracts which have been found perfectly foft, have not, in general, become gradually more and more opake by very flow degrees, and, in a length of time, the patient feeling little or no pain; and whether the firm ones do not, in general, become haftily opake; and are not preceded, or accompanied by fevere, and deeply-feated pain in the head, particularly in the hinder part of it. What1 THE CATARACT. 223 What lias hitherto been faid, as it principally regards the theory of the dif- temper, may perhaps be thought to be of little importance; but when the influence which thefe opinions may produce, and in- deed have produced on practice, is con- fidered, it will be found to be matter of fome confequence: while they are confined to a furgeon's imagination only, they are not of much confideration; but when they are to regulate his judgment, and direct his hand, they become rather ferious. Since the operation of extracting the cataract, inftead of depreffing it, has been introduced into practice, and made a kind of fafhion, it has been the humour to ex- aggerate all the objections to which the latter has been faid to be liable; and that in fuch a manner, that they who have not had frequent opportunities of feeing bufi- nefs of this kind fall, without reflection, into the prevailing opinion ; feem to won- der,, that the operation of couching fhould ever have had any fuccefs at all; and at the fame time are, from the accounts given, inclined to believe, that the extraction is always fafe, eafy, and fuccefsful. The224 REMARKS OPT The obje&lons which are made againn: the operation of couching, at leaft thofe which have any femblance of truth or force, are reducible to four. The firft is, that if the cataract be per- fectly foft, the operation will not be fuc- cefsful, from the impoflibility of accom- plifhing the propofed end of it. The fecond is, that if it be of the mixt kind, partly foft, and partly hard, it will alfo moft probably fail of fuccefs, not only from the impracticability of depreffing the fofter parts, but alfo becaufe the more firm ones will either elude the point of the needle, and remaining in the pofterior cham- ber, ftill form a cataract; or getting through the pupil into the anterior chamber, will there bring on pain and inflammation, and induce a necefTity of dividing the cornea for their difcharge. The third is, that if the cataract be of the firm, folid kind, and therefore capable of being deprefTed, yet, in whatever part of the eye it mail happen to be placed, it will there remain undiffolved, folid, opake; and although removed from the pupil, yet prove fome hindrance to perfect vifion.Vol. 111. U t THE CATARACT. 225 The fourth objection is, that however fuccefsfully the depreiTion may have been accomplifhed, yet that the operation' will neceffarily occafion fuch violation and de- rangement of the internal parts of the eye, as mutt caufe very confiderable mifchief. Thefe objections, if they have any real weight, are of equal force in every fpecies of cataract; and therefore are the more worthy our attention: fince, if they be founded on truth, they render the oper- ation unfit for pradice j but if they be not, mifreprefentation and fafhion mould never induce us to lay afide any means which have been, and ftill may be beneficial to mankind. The firft and fecond I can from frequently repeated experience affirm not to be true. I mean that the operation of couching will not neceffarily, or even generally be unfuc- cefsful, merely becaufe the cataract fhall happen to be either totally or partially foft: on the contrary, although thefe ftates will prevent perfect depreffion, yet, by the judi- cious ufe of the needle, a recovery of fight, the true end.and aim of the operation, will be as certainly and as perfectly obtained, as2i6- Remarks on r it would have been either by deprefllon or bf extraction in the fame fubjett; and that generally without any of the many and great inconveniences which moft frequently attend the iatter operation. The third objedion is fpecious, and therefore very generally credited. That it never happens I will not take upon me to fay, becaufe fo many have afferted it; fome of whom, one would hope, had fome kind of authority for what they have fo pofitively affirmed. But on the other hand, when we confider how few there are who have written from their own examination and experience, and how many who have taken for granted, and copied, what others have faid before them, our faith will not be quite implicit. Certain I am, from repeated ex- perience and examination, that this opinion has not that foundation in truth which it is generally fuppofed to have j and that it has' been embraced and propagated haftily, and without fufficient inquiry and experiment.^ As this fuppofed indiffolubility of the bpake cryftalline is not only fo principal an objedion to the operation of couching, evert when it is capable of being, perfectly de- preiTedTHE CATARAQT. 22 J pre/Ted, as to be laid to overbalance all the evils, many and great as they arc, which, frequently attend the extraction; but is alfo fuppofed to be .the caufe of the failure of] fuccefs, when the depreffion of the fofter kinds of cataracts is attempted; it may. be worth, a little ferious examination. I mould be forry to have it thought, that I had any predilection or partiality tc» one method of operating more than, to ano- ther; or that I would wifn to give to either any preference, but what its fuperior ex- cellence or utility might juftly -demand ^ but, on the other hand, I cannot polTibly pay regard to any authority, however other- wife refpe&able, when it contradicts what I know to be fad. Both operations are equally practicable by any man who has a hand and an eye,- and is capable of perform- ing either; but it has of late years been fo much the humour to depreciate the one, and to extol the other, that it becomes neceflary to examine the fuppofed merits of one, and demerits of the other, and to fee whether they be . drawn from premifes which are true: if one is to be deemed univerially preferable to the other, let the circum- .WU13 lurii fo I mttm 3d o: ttiivli'>it,zti 2 itances,REMARKS Otf 228 fiances, on which preference is to be found* ed, be drawn from fa£t, and not from fic- tion ; let them be fairly and faithfully in- quired into, and let fuch inquiry determine. In order to aflift in one part of this in- quiry, I beg leave to lay before the reader a few experiments and obfervations which I have made; or I believe I fhall more pro- perly fay, have repeated; they having been often made and obferved, but not properly inforced or applied'. When the opake cryftalline is in a ftate of diffolutioii, or the catarad is what is called perfectly foft, if the capfula of it be freely wounded by the couching-needle, the contents will immediately iflue forth, and mixing with the aqueous humour, will render it more or lefs turbid: fometimes fo much as to conceal the point of the needle and the iris of the eye from the operator. This is a circumftance which has been obferved by mod operators, and has been <= When I fay experiments and obfervations which I have made and repeated, I would wifh the reader to underftand, that I have made them carefully, for the purpofe j and fo re- peatedly, as to be fatisned of their general truth. < ¥ _ mentionedTHE CATARACT. 229 mentioned by many writers; but it has always been regarded and mentioned as an unlucky one, and as being in fome degree preventative of fuccefs; which is fo far from being the fact, that as far as relates to this circumftance merely, all the benefit which can be derived from the moft fuc- cefsful depreffion, or extraction, moft fre- quently attends it: as I have often and often feen. The aqueous humour, however turbid it may become, will, in a very fhort fpace of time, be again perfectly clear; and if no diforder of the capfula of the cryftalline, previous, or confequential, prevents, the rays of lightf will pafs without obftruc- tion f The capfula, or inverting membrane of the cryftalline, has very often an unfufpected (hare in the apparent opacity of that body; and is thereby the caufe of difappointment,s and in- conveniences during fome operations, and after others. This is a circumftance which, undoubtedly, has been mentioned ; | but has not been by any means fufficiently attended to. The capfula, is capable of becoming white and opake, while its contents fhajl be clear and tranfparent; it becomes fo fome- times by being wounded by the couching-needle, ufed either for the depreffion of a firm cataradl, or for the letting out a foft one; and it will not infrequently be found fo, after the oper- ation of extraftion, when no inftrument has touched it. 1 3 Whenever{2$0 .* REMARKS ON ction through the pupil, and the patient will be reftored: to as perfect vifion as could have followed the mo ft Jfuccefsful operation of 1X1 Oi el. fbix'v/ iiho'Jul "io avilBJnsvtfiq , Whenever this happens, it is an unpleafant circumffance.; but Hill more fo if it continues for any length of time ; I have "'feerf it difappear in a week ; I" have feen it continue two, • three, or four, and at lait totally difappear; and I have feen it continue fo long as to require the re-application of the inurn- ment. When' it appears after the depreffion of a firm cryf- 'talline, or after an unfuccefsful attempt to deprefs one which has proved not firm enough, it may eafily be, and generally is, . mistaken for a portion of the cataradt rifen again; but from _ which an attentive obferver will always be able to diffinguifli •it: but when fuch opacity follows what is called a fuc'cefsful i extraction, in which the cornea only was divided3 the capfula not touched by the infr.rum.ent, and" the cataradl came away ' entire through the pupil, the cafe is felt-evident. This may truly and properly be called, as it has been by -Monfieur Houin, Haller, and others, a membranous cataradt, ( as it confifts merely of the membranous capfula of the cryf- talBne. Writers of credit have mentioned, that a cataradl may be formed almoft. inftantaneoufly, by external violence. There is 'no doubt of the fadl ; 1 have feen it four different times. Whether this be' not an affedlion of the capfula merely, I 'much doubt; or rather am much inclined to fufpedr., that it moft frequently is. 1 In three of the four, which have fallen under my obfervation, tHe opacity has gradually djfappeared after the inflammation, in confequence of the blow, had gone off' and the eves were left as clear as ever. A confequence which, I think, may be accounted for, by fuppofing the opacity in the capfula only ; but cannot, if we fuppofe it to b, in the corpus f^M^um ufe^. Qn ^ <aoiftgiaB }0 „ « * lS> Clthcr'T.H<E CATARACT. gg'f'I ■ eithei^scfe of any kind in the fame fubjec^r, ,.; and under the fame circumftances. ; j When the cata.ra.6t is of the mixed kind, partly foft, and partly hard, the imme- diate effects of the needle are fomewhat dif- ferent i the foft part of the cataract being lets in quantity, as well as generally lefs foft, the aqueous humour is lefs turbid; and tl?e , firm part or parts of the cryftalline will be very vifible. In this ftate, thefe firmer parts . will very frequently elude the attempts made by the needle to deprefs them; and will therefore remain in the pofterior chamber. This is alfo reckoned among the unfortu- nate circumftances; but although to an operator not aware of, nor acquainted wip the confequence, it may have all the ap- pearance of being fo, yet it really is not; the true end and aim of the operation not being thereby neceflarily fruftrated. In this cafe, if the needle has been fo ufed as to have wounded the capfula. very {Tightly, it will fometimes happen, that the firm' part of the cryftalline will remain in its nidus, and ltill form a cataract,, which may poffibly require a future or re-application of the inftrument. Jhis is the worft that can happen, and Jap- Q^_4 pens 9 ''3232 REMARKS ON pens indeed very feldom; for if the capfula be properly wounded, fo that the aqueous humour be freely let in, the firm part or parts, though very vifible at firft, and pre- venting the paflage of light through the pupil, will in due time, in fome longer, in others fhorter, gradually dhTolve, and at laft totally difappear; leaving the eye as fair, as clear, and as fit for vifion as any the moft fuccefsful operation could have rendered it j of which I have feen and ex- hibited many proofs h In 8 The fpace of time which the accompHlhment of fuch diffolution will require, is very uncertain: I have feen the eye perfeaiy fair and clear within a week after the operation; and I have feen it require two months for the diflblution of all the opake parts. This has been obferved by many, even before the nature and feat of a cataraft were truly known; among the reft, by Read, who, fpeaking of one of his own operations, fays: «< At the end of nine days I vifited my patient, and fqund f« both her'and her friends highly difcontented ; fo that I met <t with nothing but inveftives, &c. ; ii Withjn a fortnight after, when art and nature having « performed their mutual operations, and all the cloudy « vapours and rags of the cataraft were confumed and dif- « perfed, her eyes grew clear, and her fight became perfeft, ' &« I would have every patient, though after a cataratt be ti couched, and nine or ten days expired, he fee VTHE CATARACT. 233 In order to render the fact ftill more clear, I have fometimes, when I have found the cataract to be of the mixed kind, not at- tempted depreflion: but have contented my- felf with a free laceration of the capfula; and having turned the needle round and round between my finger and thumb, within the body of the eryftalline, have left all the parts in their natural fituation: in which cafes I have harldy ever known them fail of diflblv- ing fo entirely as not to leave the fmallelt veftige of a cataracth. In a few inftances, where « thing at all, or that he cannot endure the light for a month *•• or two, or even for a quarter of a year, as I have known *t many, not to be difcouraged ; for their fight may, notwith- ** Handing, become well and perfedl, and continue fo ever after. " On the other hand, fome come to good and perfett fight *f within a fortnight or three weeks." Sir W. Read, p. 7. h The operation of extraction, though faid in general to re- move the eryftalline in tire, and calculated for fuch purpofe, does not always do fo ; but when the cataraft is of the mixed kind, does not infrequently leave fome of the firmer part be- hind, which one of the warmeft patrons of the operation al- lows doe? diflblve and difappear. " Extrahendum ftatim poft 41 operationem eft quicquid remanet opaci ope Cochlearis " Davielis. Hoc quidem facile fit aliquando, aliquando vero *f et imprimis ubi membrana ciyftallina non fatis lacerata *f cochlear in ipfam capfulam lentis, ubi heeret illud opacum tf, corpufculum non admittit, tantis difticultatibus circumfufum ** eft, ut quicquid etiam moliaris extrahere illud non poflis, et " ne2J4 REMARKS ON * where I have had fair opportunity, I Have pufhed the firm part through the pupil info the anterior chamber, where it has always gradually and perfectly diffolved and difap- peared, not producing pain or trouble, while fuch dhTolution was accompliihing What I have advanced not being matter of opinion, but matte*' of fact capable of • *f ne oculum nimis irrites, defiftere ab opere, etrelinquere --Tteltoilotogkrik rnsdt riwoml ybhif;d 3V£ri " Neque tamen tunc etiam fpe optimi fuccefius deflitu- " imur. Scepe enim obfcrvavi^ opacum illud remanens, five • *« fit mucus, five fruftulum lentis cryftallinaj,fenfim, e£ fponte, «f citius vel tardius, penitus difparuifle. An reforbetur mucus " lafteus, an fruftula lentis cryftallinse liquefcant fenfim, et re- i>f fofberitur, an in fundum oculi fenfim, fe precipitant, dubiu'm l«< eft. Utrumque tamen fieri credo. I Quoties la&ea materia " poll deprefiam cataraftam totum humorem aqueum opaci- *< tate fua. et albedine inficiens fenfim penitus evanuit? Quoties *' pus in oculo haerens vel fanguis infigni quantitate in ilium *' efFufus, fenfim reforptus evanuit? Quoties fruftula lentis cryf- fi tallinae, poft depreflionem cataradlse, in pup'illa reli&a? &c. *' imrao liquefcere aliquando et reforberi ha?c frultula me 0! ipfum experientia docuit,'' &c. Richt£R de Catara&ae Extract, i Ilhould be forry to have it inferred from hence, that I ' would recommend the pafling the opake cryftalline through -the pupil: far from it ; I think it wrong, as it is apt to pro- < duce one of the moft frequent inconveniences attending the a operation of extraction, an irregularity of the pupil. I only I meant to prove the fact of diflblution of the catarad in fuch ...fituation ; and that it will not caufe that-pain and trouble •--which itis fo pofitiveLy-Cwd.W'(loi.i meiia biupoiup iti Jb *» beingTHE CATARACT .being inquired into, and proved by any who will take the trouble of fo doing, I do not defire any man to give credit to it upon my mere aflertion. But if, upon repeated trial and inquiry, it mould be found to be as ge- nerally and as frequently true by others, as it has been by me, may it not fairly be in- ferred, that whatever other reafpns there may be for preferring the operation of extrac- tion to that of depreffion, or the ufe of the knife to that of the needle, yet thofe .drawn from the fuppofed indiiTolubility of the cryf- talline are by no means conclufive; on the contrary, are very inconclufive. But this is by tno means all; for if what I alledged be true, fome other confequences, not a little intereft- ing to the afflicted, will neceflarily follow. Firft, if the foft cataract will, when its capfula is properly wounded, mix with the aqueous humour, and undergo fuch a perfect dirTolution, and abforption, as to leave the eye fair, clear, and fit for vinon, and which I have fo often proved, that I have not the .fmalleft doubt about it; it will then follow that the foftnefs of a cataract is fo far from being an unlucky circumftance, that it is ra- ther a fortunate one; as it enables the patient236 REMARKS ON to receive more early affiftancej and that from an operation attended with lefs pain, and a lefs violation of parts, than a firmer one would neceffarily require. Secondly, When the cataract is of the mixed kind, and which therefore frequently foils all the attempts toward depreffion, the firmer parts may very fafely be left for diiTo- lution; andvifion be thereby reftored. And, Thirdly, when the cataract fhali happen to be of the firmer kind, and during an unfuccefsful attempt to deprefs, get through the pupil behind the cornea, difap- pointment will be fo far from being the con- fequence, that if no other injury has been done to the parts within, than what fuch at- tempt neceffarily required, the difplaced crys- talline will gradually dhTolve and difappear; and the patient will fee as well as any operation could have enabled him to have done. I may perhaps be told, that what I have hitherto alledged only tends to prove, that both the foft and mixed cataract, when mix- ed with the aqueous humour by the lacer- ation of the capfula, will diffolve; but that the firm one will not, and therefore muft remain,THE CATARACT. 637 remain, wherever placed, a folid opake body. To which I anfwer, in the firfl place, that if what has been faid relative to the foft, and to the mixed cataract be true, I cannot help thinking it to be very advantageous. In the fecond place, that the opinion concern- ing the indirTolubility of the difplaced crys- talline has, I think, been taken up, and propagated, without proper authority from inquiry and experiment, fairly and deliber- ately made, and ftands merely on a few ac- cidental obfervations, which are by no means Satisfactory. And, in the third place, that, as far as my own inquiry and obfervation go, I am Satisfied, that it does difTolve wherever placed, provided it be perfeftly freed from its attachment in its natural nidusk. k While I was preparing thefe flieets for the prefs, an old man was taken into St. Bartholemew's, who had a cataraft in one eye, and had, by fome accident, loft the fight of the other. I couched him; the cataraft was as firm as I had ever felt any, and went down as eafily, as immediately, and as in- tirely as poflible. Three days after the. operation, he was feized with fo bad a fmall-pox, that he died on the eleventh, and the next day I took his eye home and examined it. The cataradt lay juft below and behind the uvea, towards the exter- nal canthus. It was become fmall, irregular, and manifeftly in a ftate of diffolution. Both23$ REMARKS ON ss Both men and books talk of firm, hard, intire, uniform cataracts, as if they were as much fo as what are found in the eye of a boiled fifh. Whence they borrow this idea, I know not, unlefs it be from boiled fifhj certain I am that it is not from nature. ~rih$$c$nfrimq®- 3?&ajnine the moll firm, opake cryflalline, taken from the eye of a living perfon, and which, from its firmnefs, pa{Ted out through the pupil and the divided cornea with the greater!: facilityj he will ge- nerally find it to be in figure, fize, and con- fidence, exceedingly unlike either to the na- tural and found cryflalline, or to one render- ed opake by heat j and he will alfo find, that fuch alteration of fhape and fize is owing to a partial dhTolution of its furface, particu- larly its anterior one; in fhort, if he will examine it carefully, and without prejudice, he will fee, that what he calls an intire, firm ni Bfnr»J£D £ .jf.fi orlvt, mtslodj nil ,l<5 onii n93uU &£)}(■,(!SIR cataract, is molt frequently little more than the nucleus of an opake cryflalline. If a man might be allowed to argue in a cafe of this kind, a priori, he might very reafonably afk, why fhould the corpus cryf- tallinuln, which, although opake, is, while in its natural fituation, and enveloped in its properTHI? CATARACT. Z39 proper capfula, fo prone to dhTolve, as we muft know that it is, be fuppofed to be as prone to induration, immediately upon being removed from its plad©.3bi' The raoft ftrenuous advocates for extrac- tion cannot help allowing, that a portion or portions of a firm cataract, which they have been obliged to leave behind in the operation, dilfolve and disappear in due time: it is, in*'* deed, a fact not to. be contradicted: but the fame people fay, that the intire cataract will not. What idea they, who argue thus, have of an intire cataract, I know not; they may, poflibly conceive it to be depreffed, ftill re- maining enveloped in a firm capfula, and; therefore to remain indhToluble: but if they would reflect on the extreme finenefs of the capfular membrane; on the neceffary action of the couching-needle, when applied to it; and on the different connltence of the dif- ferent parts of every, even the moft opake and firm cataract, they muft fee that it is a portion only of any cataract, however firm, which can in general be depreffed. One of the arguments, made ufe of by fome of the late writers, in favour of extrac- tion, is, that as the cryftalline mujl be de- Jlroyed,240 REMARKS ON firoyed, it had better be removed. Now how can it be faid to be deftroyed, if it be only difplaced, and remain indiffoluble ? Let them take which fide of this argument they pleafe, they muft be wrong: for, if the difeafe cryftalline remain, though depreffed, a folid body within the eye, how can it be faid to be deftroyed ? and, on the other hand, if it be deftroyed in the operation of couch- ing, it muft be by duTolution; and therefore cannot remain. The laft objedion to the operation of couching is, that it muft neceflarily derange and violate the internal parts of the eye, particularly the vitreous humour. If what I have faid on the fubjecTof the perfectly foft cataract, as well as on that which is partially fo, be true, the greateft part, if not the whole of this objeaion, will ceafe, with regard to thefe two: and it will be principally, if not totally, confined to that which is called firm and hard, and which, by its refiftance to the inftrument, will admit of being placed in the inferior part of the eye. In the performance of this operation, the needle may certainly be fo ufed, as to do confiderableTHE CATARACT. 241 coflfiderable mifchief; but then it mnft be from the unlkilfulnefs or aukwardnefs of the operator ; and which may be the cafe of every operation in furgery. But is an oper- ation juftly chargeable with ills, deducible merely from its having been ill executed ? I hope not. I am very fenfible, that much mifchief has been done by attempts to couch ; but, in the firit places they have almofr. always been the confequence of want of judgment, or want of dexterity in the operator ; and, ' in the next place, even under the mofr. exaggerated reprefentations, they are by no means equal to what has frequently been the confequence of attempts to extract. It may pombly be fuppofed, that I have conceived a prejudice againrf. the operation of extraction. Of this I am not confcious* I have fought and embraced every opportu- nity which a public hofpital, and many years practice have afforded me of operating in both ways, and of comparing the confe- quences. I have feen many of the patients of others, not only of the gentlemen of the profeffion, but of moll: of the itinerant oper- ators ; and am thereby convinced, that the Vol. HI. R greatefl.%-*<% REMARKS ON greateft part of the objections to the opei'* ation of couching are invalid ; have not been the reiult of unprejudiced experience, or a candid regard for truth ; that only the fair and profperous fide of the queftion, regard- ing the operation of extraction, has been in- duftrioufly exhibited,- while its manifold failures and ill-confequenees have been as in- duftrioufly concealed ; and that Upon a fair detail and comparifon of all the advantages and difadvantages, conveniences and incon- veniences attending each, the preference will be found juftly due to the needle. Inconveniences and difappointments they are both too liable to : I heartily whh they were not: but, from the moft cool and candid attention to ftfe I am convinced, that the former are much greater, and the latter much more frequent, in the operation of extraction, than in that of depreflion, executed with the fame degree of judgment, Thethe cataract. The couching needle which is com- monly in ufe has on the face which is applied to the cataract, a flat, highly- polifhed furface, which makes it, as I have experienced, liable to flip, if it meets with any little refiftance when in contact with the furface of the cata- ract; or if the chryftalline breaks, it does not readily attach the fmall por- tions of it. As the other fide, near the point, is neceflarily convex, to give a proper degree of ftrength to the initru- ment, I conceived that an advantage might be drawn from its form to ob- viate the inconvenience; I therefore got fome needles made with a fmall ca- vity on the flat fide, the oppofite con- vexity allowing fufficient depth for it, and the furface of this cavity was left rough and unpolifhed. I have ufed them many times during feveral years, and I am of opinion that this alteration gives a confiderable advantage in laying hold of that fmall flippery body the lens, or any fragment of it, and in conducting it to whatever part of the eye we think proper ■ by a turn of the inftrument it is immediately difengaged, and neither the entrance nor paflage of the needle is in any degree impeded by it. v . The annexed figures fhew the dif- ference between the two needles.—E.SOME FEW REMARKS ON THE POLYPUS of the NOSE. In thefe, as in the preceding remarks on *the cataract, I do not mean to enter into a circumftantial hiftory of the difeafe, but merely to offer a few practical obfervations on fuch parts of the doctrine concerning it, as appear to me to have been either inadver- tently or erroneoufly delivered. The polypus is a complaint which is al- ways troublefome, frequently painful, and fometimes hazardous; the firft of thefe is, the neceiTary confequence of the fituation of the diitemper; the fecond arifes from its pe- culiar nature in the individual; and the laft, lometimes from its particular nature, and fometimes from the manner in which it may have been treated. R 2 Writers^44 ON THE POLYPt/S Writers tell us, and very truly, that it is a difeafe of the membrana pituitaria narium, that it has different feats, origins, and at- tachments; that it fprings from the ethmoid bone, from the offa fpongiofa, from the feptum narium, and even from the antra maxillaria: that it is hard or foft, pale or deep red, or fometimes purple; that it is equal m its furface or unequal, large or final], moveable or fixed, fingle or multiform, painful or indolent; that it makes its appear- ance forward in the noftrils, or backwards in the fauces behind the uvula; and that it may be ftrumous, venereal, or cancerous* When they have given us thefe general, and merely definitive defcriptions, they immedi- ately proceed to the chirurgic treatment, off method of cure; which, they tell us, is either by extraction, or the ufe of efcharotics, to which fome have added ligature: they then give a general defcription of the manner of ufing the forceps, of applying efcharotics, or of pafTing the ftring round it; and having provided ftyptics for the fuppreffion of hemorrhage, they leave every thing elie to the reader's imagination, and to the prac- titioner's choice and judgment. From1 0F THE NOSE. 245 From thefe accounts, thofe who have not had much opportunity of feeing for them- felves, and who are thereby under a fort of necemty of forming their opinions, and regulating their practice by books, are in- duced to believe that, except in fome few particular inftances, where the diftemper is palpably cancerous, all others are equally objects of chirurgic treatment; and there- fore, that if, in the firft inftance, they can lay hold of the polypus with the forceps, and in the fecond, can provide againft the haemorrhage, which they have heard fo much of, they mall have nothing elfe to do or to fear. To me I muft acknowledge the matter appears very differently. I cannot help thinking, that there are many polypi, which, although they are neither fcirrhous not cancerous,, are very unfit for any chi- rurgic treatment whatever; and that from feveral circumftances : which circumftances may act. in different manners, though equal- ly prohibitory : they may forbid an attempt merely from the impoffibility of its being fuccefsful ; or they may forbid it, becaufe it is more likely to do harm than good; R 3 more246 ON THE POLYPUS more likely to exafperate the difeafe than Cure it; to increafe the misfortune, than to leffen it. The diftincYive marks of the diftemper, as laid down by writers, are, in general, juft and true; but they only teach a young practitioner to know the difeafe when he may fee it; they give him no warning of the mifchief he may incur by attacking it unguardedly; nor inform him of a very ferious truth, viz. that this is a fort of cafe, in which when real mifchief has been done, it is fometimes without remedy. As far as my experience and observation go, the polypi which begin with, or are preceded by, confiderable or frequent pain in the forehead and upper part of the nofe, and which, as foon as they can be feen, are either highly red, or of a dark purple colour; they, which from the time of their being firft noticed, have never been obfervcd to be fometimes bigger, fometimes lefs, but have conftantly rather increafed; they in which the common aftions of cough- ing, freezing, and blowing the nofe, give pain, or produce a very difagreeable fenfa- tlnn'in the noftril and forehead; they which,OF THE NOSE. 24-7 which, when within reach, are painful to the touch, or which, upon being (lightly touched, are apt to bleed; they which feem to be fixed and not moveable by the action of blowing the nofe, or of deriving the air through the affected noftril only (where the polypus is only on one fide;) they which are incompreffibly hard, and which, when preff- ed, occafion pain in the corner of the eye, and in the forehead, and which, if they iTied any thing, fhed blood; they which, by ad- hefion, occupy a very confiderable fpace, and feem to confift of a thickening, or of an enlargement of all the membrane cover- ing the feptum narium; they which fome- times fhed an ichorous, offenfive, difcolour- ed difcharge; and they, round whofe lower part, within the nofe, a probe cannot eafily and freely be palled, and that to fome height, ought not to be attempted, at leaft by the forceps, nor indeed by any other means with which I have the good fortune to be acquainted; and this for reafons obvioufly deducible from the nature and circumftances of the polypus. On the one hand, the very large extent and quantity of adhelion will render extirpation impracticable, even if the R 4 difeafe.248 ON THE POLYPUS difeafe could be comprehended within the forceps, which it very frequently cannot; and on the other, the malign nature of the diftemper may render all partial removal, all unfuccefsful attacks on it, and indeed anv degree of irritation, productive of the moft difagreeable confequences. But the polypi which are of a palifh or greyifh light brown colour, or look like a membrane juft going to be floughy; they which are feldom or never painful, nor become fo upon being prefTed; they which have appeared to be at one time larger, at another lefs, as the air has happened to be moid or dry; they which afcend and de- fcend freely by the action of refpiration through the nofe; they which the patient can make to.defcend by flopping the noftril which is free, or even moft free, and then deriving the air through that which the polypus poffeiTes; they which when preffed give no pain, eafily yield to fuch preffure, become flat thereby, and diftil a clear lymph 3 and they, round whofe lower and vifible part a probe can eafily, and that to fome height, be palled, are fair and fit for extraction j the polypus, in thefe circum- fiances,OF THE NOSE. 249 ftances, frequently coming away intire; or if it does not, yet it is reraoveable with- out pain, haemorrhage, or hazard of any kind ; the fecond of which circumftances I can with ftricl truth affirm, I never yet met with when the difeafe was at all fit .for the operation \ Of the benign kind of polypus, fit for extraction, there are two forts, whofe prin- cipal difference from each other confiftsjn their different origin or attachment: that which is moft freely moveable within the noftril, upon forcible refpiration -? which has been found to be moft liable to change of fize, at different times and feafons; that a They, who are affefted with this fort of polypus, generally complain, and that for a confiderable time before the polypus becomes vifible, that they are perpetually catching cold, more efpecially in moift or wet weather ; though they feldom have any other fymptoms of fuch colds than the ftoppage in and difcharge from the nofe ; they alfo always complain, that thefe colds always deprive them of the fenfe of fmelling. In moid weather, or in a fudden change from dry to wet, they are alfo fubjeft to frequent fits of fneezing; and when the relaxed mem- brane is moft affedted to very confiderable difcharge of thin mucus, from the affected noftril. Nor do I remember ever to have feen a polypus of this kind, which was not immediately fubjeft to a change, upon the fudden alteration/of the atmof- phere, from dry to mcift ; that is, they always become longer, fall down lower, and look fuller and paler, and generally de- prive the patient of all power of fmelling. which2$0 ON THE POLYPUS. which has increafed the mod. in the fame fpace of time; that which feems mod limpid, and mo ft freely yields lymph upon preffure, has its origin moil: commonly by a ftalk or kind of peduncle, which is very fmall, compared to the fize of the polypus; while that, which although plainly moveable, is ftill. considerably leis fo than the other; which has been lefs liable to alteration from air and feafons; and has been rather flow in arriving at a very troublefome fize,. is moft frequently an elongation of the membrane covering one of the o0a fpqngiofa: they are both capable of being extracted, and that with no kind of hazard, with very little pain and hardly any haemorrhage at all; but the former requires the leafl force, and moft' frequently comes away intire; while the lat- ter often breaks, comes away piecemeal, and {lands in need of the repeated ufe of the forceps. Fiom the preceding obfervations a few ©radical inferences may be drawn, fuch as the following: Firft, That the polypi, under the firft dcfcription, very rarely, if ever admit an attemptOF THE NOSE. 251 'attempt toward extraction ; and that not merely from the improbability of its being attended with fuccefs, but becaufe fuch at- tempt may be the caufe of very difagreeable confequences. Second, that in thofe which do admit an operation, or the ufe of the forceps, the de- gree of fuccefs will depend principally upon two circumftances, viz. the benignity of the difeafe, and the degree and quantity of at- tachment ; for although the nature of the complaint may be perfectly benign, yet it may happen, that a cure may not be attainable, and that merely from the degree and kind of attachment. And, Third, That, the haemorrhage fo much talked of, fo folicitoufly guarded againft by writers, and fo much dreaded by young practitioners, will not often, if ever, be met with, in fuch cafes as fairly and properly admit the operation. The polypus is a difeafe, which, of all others, is faid to be moft difficult totally and perfectly to eradicate, and moft liable to re- production. This is, in fome degree, true. It is difficult, in many inftances, to extirpate itt 252 ON THE POLYPUS •it totally, and it often does grow again, more efpecially that fort which fprings from the offa fpongiofa; but yet, that is not fo often the cafe as it is fuppofed to be. It not in- frequently happens, that there are, at the fame time, two, three, or more different po- lypi, each of which is perfedly diftina from the others, and has a feparable diftinft attach- ment. When this is the cafe, the loweft or moft anterior, having the open noftril before it, eaiily makes its way down, uncompreffed. while the other, or others, are not only kept up, and out of fight, but are alfo confiderably compreffed. When the one, which was within fight and reach, has been removed, the next falls downward, and foon becomes vifible; if it was large and lax, and merely kept up by what lay before it, it is often to be feen imme- diately ; but if it was (mall, it may be out of fight, and can only be fufpe&ed by the paf- fage of air through the noftril not being free, although the polypus which was removed, came away perfect, and intire 3 and when it does appear, it panes for a reprodudion from the old ftem, though it is really another and perfeaiy diftinft polypus, of which the in- 5 tireOF THE NOSE. 253 tire ftate of the inverting membrane, and the feparation of the polypus from its fmgle point of attachment, will upon careful examination appear irrefragable prootsc. It may perhaps be remarked, that, in what I have offered concerning this diftemper, I have confined myfelf merely to the operation of extraction only; and have faid nothing concerning: the various methods and means which have been propofed for its deftruction. e Mr. Pott was particularly competent to defcribe this dif- eafe, having been troubled with polypi in his nofe during many years; at one time they increafed to fuch a degree as to diftend the noftrils, and almoft totally to prevent the paf- fage of air; when they were fallen fufficiently low, Mr. Pott took an opportunity, in moift weather, and when they were in a ftate of relaxation, to extract the moll prominent ones for himfelf, by means of a pair of window forceps before a mir- ror. In no great length of time others came in fight and fup- plied their place, which alfo Mr. Pott extracted- in the fame manner, till he had a collection of five or fix large polypi; one of them had a fingle bafis, but was branched out into two large lobes; to fome of them there adhered a fmall portion of bone, to which they had been fixed ; a fufficient proof that it required ho fmall degree of fortitude and perfeverance to perform the operation on his own perfon. Of late years he had entirely got rid of them; but there remained fuch a thicknefs of the whole membrane, that he continued totally deprived of the fenfe of fmelling; a circumftance which he never much regretted.—E. I am■254 ON THE POLYPUS I am very fenfible that many of our b^oks are furnifhed with relations of attempts made by efcharotics, and by a land of medicated fetons, fome of which have been faid to be fuccefsful. If I had ever found them fo, I mould have been glad to have related it, but I cannot fay that I have; on the contrary, all that I have done of this kind, or have feen done by others, have ferved more and more to deter me from practifing it again. When the poly- pus is loofe and fairly circumftanced for extrac- tion, it is not only the befr. method of cure, but is always advifeable, and very frequently fuccefsful; but when from immobility, large- nefs of attachment, malignity of nature, or from any other caufe, it becomes unfit for the ufe of the forceps, it is always, as far as I haye been able to obferve, ftill more unfit for cauftic; nor indeed do I remember a lingle cafe, which has been fo circum- ftanced as to render the ufe of the forceps abfolutely unadvifeable, where the application of efcharotics would not have been much more fo, as experiment, in fome of them, has fatally proved. The ftrucliure and irritability of parts' within the nofe, and the impoffibility ofOF THE NOSE. 255 of confining the application or limiting the effects of cauftie medicines in fuch a part, in whatever manner or form applied, are palpable objections a priori; and the very difagreeable confequences which have been often found to follow from the inflammation and irritation of what it was impoffible totally to deftroy, have been too ferious to be flightedd. The polypus fometimes, inftead of fall- ing down the noftril, makes its appearance backward in the fauces behind the uvula, in which cafe, the general method is, to ex- tract it by introducing the inftrument into the mouth inftead of by the nofe. This, though fometimes practicable, is much more ealily defcribed than executed; and in fome people will be found abfolutely impracticable. The objection arifes from the great difficulty of keeping the tongue down d The method by ligature, whether of filk or wire, is not attended with the inconveniences of the caullic, and is certainly practicable in fome inilances; but, as fa!r as I have Men of it, is by no means equal to that by the forceps, either for its general utility, or its capacity of perfectly eradicating the ex- crefcence. I know fome ingenious practitioners, who approve of it; but I cannot f;iy, from what has come within my know- ledge, that it appears to me in fo recommendable a light. in2 $6 Otf THE tOLYtV5 in fome, and in others from their incapability of permitting any thing to touch the root of that part, or any part of the fauces, without immediately producing a fpafm: to which might be added that, in fome cafes, the poly- pus is fo expanded as almoft to conceal the uvula, which is therefore liable to be laid hold of by the inftrument, to the no fmall detri- ment of the patient. However large, pendulous, or expanded fuch polypus may be, its attachment always is and muft be within the cavity of the nofe, and therefore always within the reach of a pair of forceps introduced that-way, efpecially if the forceps be fomewhat curved : and which, 'when the excrefcence appears behind the uvula, will have- one advantage fuperior to what it has when the polypus appears in thei nofe, which is, that it will be applied much nearer to the point of attachment, and therefore moft likely to extirpate it perfectly. I cannot leave this fubject without caution- ing the young practitioner to be exceedingly careful in examining and inquiring into all the circumftances previous to his undertaking a cure,OF THE NOSE. 257 cure, left he fhould find, too late, that he has o-one too far to recede. For want of fuch caution, 1 have feen hemorrhages which have been frightful, and inflammations which have proved fatal. I have feen a cafe, wherein an untoward-looking po- lypus, and which ought not to have been meddled with, has been fo attached to a dif- tempered feptum nafi, that it has come away with it: I have feen the fame thing happen with regard to almoft the whole of the ofla palati: and I have more than once known a polypofe thickening of the membrane cover- ing the ofla. fpongiofa, and feptum nafi, which, in all probability, would have remained quiet a great length of time, fo irritated by rough, treatment and fuccefslefs attempts, as to ren- der the remainder of the patient's life truly miferable to himfelf, and ofFenfive to others. CANCERrCANCER SCROTI. Ramazini has written a book de morbis artificum; the Colic of Poi&ou is a well known diftemper; and every body is ac- quainted with the diforders to which paint- ers, plumbers, glaziers, and the workers in white lead, are liable: but there is a difeafe as peculiar to a certain fet of people, which has not, at lean: to my knowledge, been publicly noticed j I mean the chimney- fweeper's cancer. It is a difeafe which always makes its firft attack on, and its firn: appearance in the inferior part of the fcrotum; where it pro- duces a fuperficial, painful, ragged, ill-look- ing fore, with hard and rifing edges: the trade call it the foot-wart. I never faw it under the age of puberty1, which is, I fuppofe, one * Since Mr. Pott publifticd this tratt, I faw the difeafe which is defcribed, in an infant under eight years of age, who was brought into St Bartholemew's hofpital, and was an ap- Vol.III. S prentice258 CANCER SCROTI. one reafon why it is generally taken, both by patient and furgeon, for venereal, and treing treated with mercurials, is thereby foon and much exafperated: in no great length of time, it pervades the fkin, dartos, and membranes of the fcrotum, and feizes the tefticle, which it enlarges, hardens, and renders truly and thoroughly diftempered;. from whence it makes its way up the fper- matic procefs into the abdomen, moft fre- quently indurating and fpoiling the inguinal glands: when arrived within the abdomen, it affeds fome of the vifcera, and then very foon becomes painfully deftru&ive. The fatq of thefe people feems Angularly hard: in their early infancy, they are moft frequently treated with great brutality, and almoft ftarved with cold and hunger; they are thruft up. narrow, and fometimes hot chimnies, where they are bruifed, burned, and almoft fuffocated; and when they get to prentice to a chimney-fweeper. I (hewed it to Mr. Pott who acknowledged it to be the true difeafe, and that he had not be- t feeu it in <b young a fubje*. It had In * * - ower part of the fcrotum; but, as the teftes had not unbred the poifon, the difeafedpart being removed, the wound healed, a„d the boy was ^charged f& *" puberty,CANCER SCROTI. 2^0 puberty, become peculiarly liable to a mod noifome, painful, and fatal difeafe. Of this laft circumftance there is not the leaft doubt, though perhaps it may not have been fufficiently attended to, to make it generally known. Other people have cancers of the fame partsand fo have others befide lead-workers, the Poi6lou colic, and the confequent paralyfis: but it is neverthelefs a difeafe to which they are peculiarly liable; and fo are chimney- fweepers to the cancer of the fcrotum and tefticles. If there be any chance of putting a flop to, or preventing this mifchief, it muft be by the immediate removal of the part af- feded; I mean that part of the fcrotum where the fore is; for if it be fuffered to remain until the virus has feized the tefti-* cle, it is generally too late even for caftra- tion. I have many times made the experi- ment ; but though the fores, after fuch oper- ation, have, in fome inftances, healed kindly, and the patients have gone from the hofpital feem'mgly well, yet, in the fpace of a few months, it has generally happened, that they have returned either with the fame difeafe in S 2 the260 CANCER SCROTI. the other tefticle, or in the glands of the groin, or with fuch wan complexions, fuch pale leaden countenances, fuch a total lofs of ftrength, and fuch frequent and acute internal pains, as have fufficiently proved a difeafed ftate of fome of the vifcera, and which have foon been followed by a painful death. If extirpation ever bids fair for the cure of a cancer, it feems to be in this cafe j but then the operation mould be immediate, and •before the habit is tainted. The difeafe, in thefe people, feems to derive its origin from a lodgment of foot in the rugae of the fcro- tum, and at firft not to be a difeafe of the habit. In other cafes of a cancerous nature, in which the habit is too frequently con- cerned, we have not often fo fair a profpedt of fuccefs by the removal of the di(tempered part; and are obliged to be content with means, which I wifli I could fay were truly palliative: but here the fubjeds are young, in general in good health, atlcaft atfirft, the difeafe brought on them by their oc- cupation, and in all probability local; which laft circumftance may, I think, be fairly prefumed from its always feizing the fame 6 ^a *CANCER SCROTI. 26l part: all this makes it (at firft) a very dif- ferent cafe from a cancer which appears in an elderly man, whofe fluids are become acrimonious from time, as well as other caufes; or from the fame kind of complaint in women who have ceafed to menftruate. But be all this as it may, the fcrotum is no vital organ, nor can the lofs of a part of it ever be attended with any, the fmalieft degree of inconvenience; and if a life can be preferved by the removal of all that portion that is diftempered, it will be a very good and eafy compofition; for when the difeafe has got head, it is rapid in its pro- grefs, painful in all its attacks, and molt certainly deftruclive in its event. OBSERVATIONSOBSERVATIONS and CASES RELATIVE TO RUPTURES, &c. SECT. I. PISEASES OF THE OMENTUM, PARTICU- LARLY OMENTAL HERNIiE. The general doctrine regarding thefe, is, that although they are fometimes trouble- fome, from their weight and fize, yet the omentum being infenfible, and very little, if at all, neceflary to vitality, they do not call for our immediate amftance, and never endanger the patient's life. That omental raptures are not attended with thofe immediately hazardous circum- stances, which necenarily accompany in- teftinal ones, is a truth beyond all doubt; S 4 but264 OBSERVATIONS but that difeafes of the omentum are of little conlequence, or that this kind of rupture is fo harmlefs, as never to bring the life of the patient into danger, and to prove pofitively, as well as eventually fatal, is a pofition which is by no means true. Inteftinal ruptures are primarily and ori- ginally hazardous, and this hazard arifes as well from the flructure, as from the func- tions of the parts concerned. The tender membranes of the inteftines are very little able to bear any considerable degree of inflammation j and neither digeftion of the food, propulfion of the chyle into, and through the lacleals, nor expulfion of the faeces from the large, guts (offices abfolutely necefTary to the very exiftence of the animal) can be executed, while fuch ftricture is made on any part of the inteftinal canal, as either hinders its. natural motion, or renders ! its tube imperviousj confequently, whenever this happens, from whatever caufe, the pa- tient is immediately difordered and brought into a ftate of hazard. The omentum is not indeed fo liable to injury, either from its ftruclure, or from its office the diflodgment of it from its na- turalON RUPTURES. 265 tural fituation within the belly, or its en- gagement in a ftricture, feldom produce any immediate, or very preffing fymptoms; and therefore its confinement within a her- nial fac, has feldom been regarded as a mat- ter of importance. Taken in a general fenfe, it certainly is not. The difplacement of a mere portion of caul, from its natural lituation, and the detention of it in the groin or fcrotum, will not, in general, oc- cafion any fuch interruption in any of the functions of the animal, or fo diforder its internal economy, as to produce a con- siderable degree of pain, or hazard: but whoever from thence concludes, that omen- tal ruptures are abfolutely void of danger, will find himfelf much deceived: a more attentive obfervation of the difeafe, and its effects, will inform him, that very con- fiderable mifchief fbmetimes attends them, and that the ill confequences of neglect or mismanagement, though perhaps lefs fre- quent, and lefs rapid, are not lefs real. The ills which may attend omental hernia;, are of two kinds: one of which is primary or original, proceeds from the part which firft formed the rupture, and is con- fined%66 OBSERVATIONS fined to it independent of any other; the other is fecondary, or an accidental con- fequence, flowing indeed from the fame original malady, but affecting other parts alfo. The omentum is liable to inflammation, fuppuration, gangrene, mortification, and fcirrhus, while in its natural fituation with- in the cavity of the belly; and each of thefe ftates is often the real, though mod com- monly unfufpeded, caufe of very alarming fymptoms, and not infrequently of death. It is not only liable to the fame morbid alterations, when thruft forth from the cavity into a hernial fac, but the neglect or mifmanagement of it, when there, is pro- ductive of thefe and other evils, which, for want of a proper attention, have either been totally over-looked, or fet to the account of other caufes. Violent or continued preflure on it has produced inflammation with all its coniequences; has brought on fever of a very bad kind, fuppuration, (lough, and fpha- celus; long confinement of it within a hernial lac has occafioned luch other al- teration in its form and texture, as to ren- der it truly a difeafed body, and to produce manyON RUPTURES, 267 many inconveniences from fuch its morbid ftatej and an undue or interrupted circu- lation through it, by means of ftridture, occafions, fometimes, fuch a colleaion of extravafated fluid in the fac, as to render it a necelfary object of a furgeon's atten- tion; not to mention that the dragging down a larger portion of the caul into the fcrotum, proves fometimes more than merely difagreeable, by reafon of its connexion with the abdominal vifcera, Thefe are ills which arife from omental Tuptures primarily, and are dependant upon the nature of the difeafe, confidered abftradr- edly, without any view to or connexion with any other. But there is another which, although it may be called fecondary, or be confidered as a confequence, is both fre- quent and hazardous. When a portion of the peritoneum, form- ing a hernial fac, has been thruft quite down into the fcrotum, I believe I may venture to affirm (notwithstanding what may. have been faid to the contrary) that it feldom or never returns back into the abdomen again, but be- comes immediately, and wholly, connected with the cellular membrane inverting the fpermatic AOBSERVATIONS *68 fpermatic veflels; fo that whoever has once had fuch fac fo protruded, can never have any fecurity againft. the difeafe called a rup- ture, but what is derived from fuch means as may render the entrance into that bag too fmall to permit any thing to pafs from one cavity into the other. Upon this principle, and on this only, (lands the utility, and in- deed the neceflity, of trufTes and fuch kinds of bandages. By thefe, in infants, and in young fubjects, fuch a coarctation or leffoning of the entrance into the fac is produced, that a firm and permanent cure is often obtained; but in the majority of adults, and in all peo- ple far advanced in life, fuch effect is not to be expected. It does indeed happen to fome few, but it is to be regarded as an accidental benefit; and the bandage being the only means whereby a defcent can be prevented, it ought to be conftantly and unremittingly worn. Whoever has a juft idea of an hernial fac, mufr. be convinced, that while a body, or fubftance of any kind, poffefles that part of it which communicates immediately with the belly, fuch paffage can never be doled: and, confequently, that the one point in whichON RUPTURES. 269 which even the palliative cure of a rupture confifts can never be accomplished. A portion of omentum, although it be compreflible, foft, and flippery, will, while it remains in fuch pafTage, keep it as con- ftantly and as certainly open, as any other body whatever; and from the very circum- ftances of its being foft, flippery, and com- preffible, will ftill more eafily let any other body pafs by it: a portion of the inteftinal canal is frequently prefled againft the mouth of this fac> and that with confiderable force; the orifice being open, and the omentum af- fording but little refiftance, the faid portion is often puttied into the bag, and by this means a new, and ftill more interefting and hazardous complaint, is added to the old one. This happens much more frequently than it is fuppofed to do: and is, in the nature of things, fo probable, that no perfon who has an omental rupture, can, for any the fliort- eft fpace of time, be faid to be fecure againft the defcent of a portion of interline; and confequently is always liable to every kind and degree of hazard attending an inteftinal2JO OBSERVATIONS CASE I. A Gentleman, about forty-three years old, had, for fome time, been fubject to a rupture of the omental kind* which came, down when he was in an erecT: pofture, and went up with great eafe when he lay fupine. I reduced it, and put on him a trufs, which anfwered the pttrpofe very well, by keeping the rupture up all the while it was worn: but the patient, difliking the necef- fary degree of preffure, and finding very little inconvenience from his difeafe, (it being merely a piece of caul) laid afide the life of his bandage, and fuffered his rupture to take its own courfe. Being obliged to take a long journey on horfeback, and being apprehenfive that his complaint might, by exercife in hot weather, prove troublefome, he had a mind to put his trufs on again, not doubting but that he could replace his rupture as eafily as he had been accuftomed to do: he tried feveral times, but could not accomplifti it: he came to me;DN RUPTURES. 2J1 ma J tried, and was foiled. I repeated the attempt again and again, but to no purpofe, ftill being clear that the difeafe confifted only of a portion of omentum, and that not large. From me he went to one of the adver- sers j who having, for a day or two, amuf- ed him with anointing his groin, put on him a bandage with a large, hard bolfter; which being buckled very tight, he was permitted to begin his journey, and was told that, long before he returned, the por- tion of caul would • be fhrunk to nothing, and his difeafe thereby cured. He fet out, and got about twenty miles, when he found himfelf fo ill, and in fo much pain, that he determined to come back to London j which he accomplifhed with great difficulty. I found him in extreme pain all over his , belly, which would hardly bear being touched; he was incapable not only of fitting or ftanding upright, but even of lying ftraight upon his back; he could hardly bear the weight of the bed-clothes j and the moft gentle preffure, toward the bottom of his belly, and his groin, was intolerable. The fcrotum, and fpermatic procefs, on the ruptured272 OBSERVATIONS ruptured fide, were fwollen, tenfe, and in- flamed ; his fkin was hot and dry, his pulfe hard and frequent, and he had fuch a degree of reftleffnefs, that although motion was very painful to him, yet he could not lie ftill for two minutes. Notwithstanding the many opportunities which, before this accident, I had had of knowing the true nature of his rupture, and that I was perfectly convinced, that it had always been omental merely, yet from his acute pain, from the enlarged and'inflamed ftate of the procefs, and from the nature and rapidity of his fymptoms, I was much in- clined to believe, that a portion of inteftine had fome mare in the prefent mifchief; but the patient, who was a very intelligent man, infifted on it that it had not, and that all his prefent malady was caufed by the preflure of the trufs on the omentum. I took away a confiderable quantity of blood, and, notwithstanding the patient's opinion, directed a folution of the fal rupell. in i'nfuf. fenae to be taken immediately, and a purging glyfter to be thrown up as foon as it could be got ready j for the parts were in fuch a ftate, that, had there been more convincingON RUPTURES. 273 Convincing marks of inteftinal ftricture, re* duction by the hand was at that time im- practicable, and unfit to be attempted. I faw him in about fix or eight hours. The difcharge per anum had been fuch as to put an end to all fufpicion of ftriclure on any part of the inteftinal tube, but his inflam- matory fymptoms were not at all leffenecl. I took away more blood, and would fain have put him into a femicupium, but the dread of motion prevented him from com- plying with it. His pain was exceffivej and as he had now loft a very considerable quan- tity of blood, and had had a very free dif- charge by ftool, I threw up a glyfter of warm water, oil, and laudanum, and gave him two grains of extract, thebaic, by the mouth. He palTed fo bad a night, that he was glad, early in the morning, to comply with the ufe of the bathing tub, by the repeated ufe of which, and taking care to keep the body open, by lenient, oily remedies, he, at the end of four days, got to be eafy. Fomentation and poultice reduced the tumcfadion in the groin and fcrotum, and when they were removed, the rupture ap- Vol. Ill, T peared274 OBSERVATIONS peared to be nearly in the fame ftate as be- fore the accident, only a little larger. Two years after this he died, and was opened; his rupture was found to be merely omental, and the portion of caul which form- ed it was, in its inferior part, adherent to the hernial fac in two places. C A S E II. A young man, who worked as a jour- neyman with a filverfmith in Fofter-lane, came to me three or four different times, on account of a rupture, which appeared to have every mark of being merely omental. It was large, and had, as he faid, been for fome years eafily reducible; but it was not at all fo at his lift vifit to me. By a late in- creafe of fize and weight, it was become very troublefome, as well as very vifible. Finding reduaion impracticable-, I recommended to him the ufe of a fufpenfory bandage, and gave him directions for his general conduct. At the diftance of about fix months from his laft vifit, I was fent for to St. Bartholo- mew'sON RUPTURES. 275 mew's hofpital in a hurry, to a perfon fup- pofed to labour under a hernia with ftri&ure. I found a man who was only not dead; he had a dying countenance, a faultering pulfe, a conftant hiccough, and cold extre- mities. As it did not appear to me that it was poffible for me to do him any fervice, I was going away, but was called back at the patient's particular requeft. He made himfelf known to me to be the perfon I have juffc mentioned ; and a friend, who was with him, gave me the following account: That a few days before, having an intention to marry, and believing that his rupture would be prejudicial to him, he had applied to fomebody who had been recommended to him for relief: that the perfon to whom he applied, having received from him fuch gra- tuity as he could afford at that time, in part of payment, had promifed to cure him within a month : that he anointed him for two or three days with an ointment, and then put on him a very ftri6t bandage : that he was ordered to wear this bandage conftantly, day and night: that when he had worn it T 2 , three276 OBSERVATIONS three days, not being able longer to endure the pain it caufed, he took it off, and went to his furgeon, who feemed to be fur prized, and bad him go home, apply to his groin and fcrotum a poultice made of boiled turnips and hog's-lard, and come to him again the next day: that the inflammation and fwell- ing increasing, he was prevented from fulfil- ing the laft injunction, and therefore fent for his operator, who came to him, examined the parts, faid he had got the pox, and re- fufed to do any thing more for him without the depofit of another five guineas; and that not being able to comply with this demand, his friends had brought him to the hofpital. 'the fcrotum had been of confiderable fize, but was now fubfided; it had been very painful, but was now eafy; it was in many places livid; and, upon handling, the fingers perceived that alarming crepitus, which in- fallibly denotes putrid air from gangrenous membranes. When I faw him in health, I was perfectly fatisfied, that his rupture was merely omen- tal ; I was as much fatisfied, that his prefent ftate was owing to his bandage; but never- thelefs I cannot but fay, that I fufpedted'aON RUPTURES. 277 piece of inteftine to have flipped down, and to have occafioned this fatality by being preffed on. I inquired into his difcharge by ftool, and was told, that he had a large one within the laft two days, but having often experienced how liable people are to deception, in thefe cafes, I did not give entire credit to the ac- count. That evening he died, and next morning he was opened. The fcrotum and hernial fac were com- pletely mortified, and within the latter was a fmall quantity of a moft exceedingly offen- five fanies, together with a large piece of fphacelated omentum only. The whole in- teftinal tube was within the belly perfectly found, and in good order; but the omentum, within that cavity, had partaken confider- ably of the mifchief done to that part of it which was in the hernial fac, and was gan- grenous throughout. CASE278 OBSERVATIONS case nr. I was defired to vifit a gentleman at Hackney, who had for fome years been afHicled with a rupture, which at different times had been examined by Mr. Sainthill, Mr. Samuel Sharpe, and others; and had, by every body, been deemed to be merely omental. For fome years it had been kept up by means of a fteel trufs; but a few months before I faw him he had laid afide his trufs, and had put on a dimity bandage, wi'h a large bolfter, which he had worn very tightly buckled: How he had managed himfelf in other refpecfs, I know not; but I found him with his groin and fcrotum much fwollen, and very painful to the touch; he was hot and feverifh, and had been two days without a ftool. The ftate of the parts was fuch, that an immediate attempt to reduce the rupture by the hand was impracticable, at leaft could not have been attended with any probability of fuc~ cefs. He was immediately let blood, had a glyfter, and an aperient draught. Next day 1 found him worfe, in more pain, with more inflammation,ON RUPTURES. 279 inflammation, and a greater degree of tume- faction, and had not yet had a ftool. I was obliged to depend upon the patient's own account of his cafe previous to this attack. He infifted on it, that his rupture had never been inteiKnal, and that every body who had feen it had given him that affurance. This I could not contradia, but was, at the fame time, much inclined to believe, that a por- tion of inteftine was down now. The cata- plafm was applied over the whole fcrotum and groin, a ftimulating glyfter again thrown up, and a purging mixture ordered to be taken, cochleatim, every two hours, until he ftibuld have (tools, but all to no purpofe. On the third day he was worfe in every refpeclj his belly exceedingly tenfe, his pain great, his reftleflhefs fatiguing, and he- felt not the leaft tendency towards a dis- charge per anum, I propofed the operation, but the patient and his friends objected. A glyfter, of an infufion of tobacco, was adminiftered. This produced fuch ficknefs and languor, with cold fweats, &c. as alarmed every body, but produced no ftool. Late in the evening, he fubmitted to the. T 4 operation.280 OBSERVATIONS operation. The parts were now fo altered, that I garded myfelf with a moft doubtful prognoftic. I made an incifion from the groin to the bottom of the fcrotum: the fkin, dartos, and hernial lac, were all gan- grenous ; and from the cavity of the fac I let out a confiderable quantity of a moft ofFenfive fanies, and with it a large, putrid {lough, which appeared to have been a part of the omentum. I examined the opening in the abdominal mufcle, and was fatisfied that it was in a natural ftate, and that no- thing from the abdomen was engaged in it. On which account,11 did not meddle with it, but having dreffed the wound fuperficially, put on his poultice again. Dr. de la Cour was prefent at the operation, and directed for the patient. Another day pafFed without flool, and this I thought muft have been his laft day, but on the fifth he had a moft plentiful difcharge, and was thereby relieved from the tenfion of his belly, and his moft troublefome fymptoms. The fore was a long time crude and un- kindly, but by means of the bark, and pro- per diet, all difficulties were furmounted, arid the patient got well. Had;28l ON RUPTURES. Had a piece of inteftine been in the fac, it muft, I think, have neceffarily partaken of the ftate in which both it and the omentum were; and although the patient might pof- fibly have furvived, yet a difcharge of faeces through the wound muft, at leaft for a time, have been the confequence ; but here was nothing of that kind, nor any reafon, after the conftipation was removed, to fuppofe that the inteftine had ever fuftained any injury, or had any fhare in the com- plaint. CASE IV. A man, about fifty-five years old, afked my opinion concerning a hard fwelling, which he had on each fide, both in the groin and fcrotum. 1 To the eye they appeared like omental hernias; but upon examination, they were not only unequal in their furface, but craggy, and incompreflibly hard. The patient faid, that at the time of hand- ling them, they gave him very little uneafi- nefs, but that fuch handling always made them painful for fome time after: that he Was, at times, attacked with acute pain dartingOBSERVATION'S darting through his befly, up into his loins; and that fuch attack was frequently attended . with a naufea, and an inclination to vomit: that he had been fubject to a painful colic, attended generally with conftipation of belly: that an erect pofture, if continued for any length of time, was very irkfome: that thefe fwellings were, for feveral years, foft and eafily returnable into the belly: that while they were fo, he had, by the advice of Mr. Samuel Sharpe, worn a fteel trufs; but that being engaged in a buttling, aftive kind of life, and the' trufs not always doing its duty, he had left it off for fome years. That for the laft two years, he had never been able to return either of them, fince which they had altered very much: that in their prefent ftate he had confulted feveral of the profeffion, and fome quacks: that by fome they had been deemed fcirrhous tef- ticles, by others, fcirrhi of the fpermatic pro* celTes: that he had gone through a courfe of mercurial inunction j had taken freely of the folution of fublimate cu. decoct, rad. farfaparillae, and had (in his own phrafe) fwallowed a wheelbarrow-full of cicutas that he had been promifed a cure by having themON RUPTURES. ? " 8 Thefe thetn laid open, to which he had fubri had not the operator been too lavifh in his, promifes, and too exorb'xmt in mands; and that frequent attempts had q made to foften them by fomentation tice, &c. but all to no purpofe. He had a fallow complexion, a langu d fatigued look, a weak, irregular pulie, too much heat and thirft, and too little urine: upon the whole, he ftemed a very improper fubject for any chiru.gic treatment, if any could have been rationally propofed; but as it did not appear to me that any thing of that kind could be done for him, I advifed him tov keep his fcrotum fufpended, and to confult a phyfician on account of his general ftate. Not long after, his legs fwelled, he loft his appetite, and his urinary fecretion almoft totally ceafed. The confequence of which was, a general anafarca, and death; In each groin, and on each lide'in the fcrotum, was a hernial fac, bearing all the marks of antiquity: in each of thefe was a hard, knotty, irregular kind of body, whofe furface was covered with varicous velfels.2$4 OBSERVATIONS Thefe bodies paffed from the cavity of the belly, through the opening in the ab- dominal mufcle, were continuations from the omentum, and were truly cancerous, CASE V. That the refidence of a portion of omen- tum in an open hernial fac, muft render the patient constantly liable to the defcent of a portion of inteftine, is fo felf-evident, that it cannot admit the fmalleft doubt, but the following cafe being rather remarkable, I have inferted it. A drunken idle fellow, who lived in the neighbourhood of St. Bartholomew's, ufed to come frequently to the furgery for pledgets for broken heads, &c. He had alfo a fmall omental hernia, as fairly and decifively characterifed as poffible. Myfelf, and all the furgeons, had at different times replaced it for him, and the hofpital had once or twice given him a trufs; but being much oftener drunk than fober, he feldom wore it at all, and when he did, it was feldom in the right place. One day while I was at the hofpital, he was brought in with an immenfe fwellingON RUPTURES. 285 of the fcrotum, and all the fymptoms of a hernia with ftricture, and thofe fo far ad- vanced, that he had no chance but from the operation, which I therefore performed immediately. . In the fac was a connderable portion of the ileum, and a large piece of the colon with the appendicula vermiformis, toge- ther with the fmall piece of omentum, which had conftituted the original rupture. The parts were mortified, and the man died. Unlefs it can be fuppofed, that fo large a quantity of inteftine could, by every body, be miftaken for a fmall one of omentum Only, it muft be clear that the relidence of that fmall piece of omentum gave the opportunity for the formation of the in- teftinal hernia, and coft the poor man his life; more efpecialiy if it be noted, that the increafe of tumefaction and attack of bad fymptoms were the immediate confequence of an exertion of ftrength. CASE VI. While I was correcting thefe papers for the prefs, I was de fired to go down to St. Katharine's286 OBSERVATIONS Katharine's to fee a patient, who was flip* pofed to be afflidted with an incarcerated hernia. I found a man between fixty and feventy, whole fcrotum was large and full, and, as I thought, contained both omentum and in- tefHne. ;> It was the third day fince he had had'a ftool, although gentle cathartics had been given each day. His pulfe was rather full, but otherwife not much amifs; he had now and then an inclination to vomit, and his belly was very tenfe; but, on the other hand, he had neither the fenfation of general or local pain, either upon being examined, or put into motion, which perfons labouring under a ltriclure molt commonly have; neither had the fpermatic procefs the feel which it ufually has in fuch cafes. I could not fay that I thought him in immediate hazard, although the irreduci- bility of his rupture, and the length of time which had paffed fince he hag! a ftool, were certainly unfavourable circumftances. I directed a tobacco-glyfter to be given imme- diately, and five grains of extra&um cathar- ticum to be taken, alternis horis, until he mouldON RUPTURES. 20? (hould have a ftool. The glyfter was ad- miniftered and repeated, and the pills were taken, and I vifited the patient early the next morning. He had not had any difcharge per anum, his belly was become much more tenfe, and I thought him upon the whole fo much worfe, that I propofed the operation, and the patient fubmitted to it. In the hernial fac was a large piece of omentum, or rather of what had been omen- tum, but which was now hardened into a large flat cake, as incomprefiible as cold bees-wax, and about the fize of a large mangoej it diftended all the upper part of the fac, and was adherent to the lower part of it: behind this large body lay a portion of the inteftinum ileum, and below this, that part of the colon which is annexed to it: the colon was confiderably diftended with flatus, and the ileum was fo wedged in and prefTed, by the altered omentum, that no- thing could pofflbly pafs through it: when the portion of omentum was removed, the tendon made fo little ftriclure on the gut, that, had it not been for the great diftention of2SS OBSERVATIONS of the colon, it might have been returned into the belly without divifion* In fhort, the conftipation of belly, and mifchief proceeding from thence, feemed to arife entirely from cornpreffion made by the hardened omentum, and not from a ftricture. In my general treatife on ruptures, I have ventured to diffent from the commonly-re- ceived doctrine concerning the propriety of tying the omentum previous to its extirpa- tion, when it may be found neceffary to re- move a part of it 5 and have faid, that I thought it not only unneceffary, but per- nicious* Perhaps I may have conceived an unrea- fonable prejudice againft this practice, and it may not appear to others fo hazardous, or fo improper, as it does to mej perhaps the cafes which follow, and which are fome of thofe that have furnifhed me with my objeftions, may not be thought cafes in point; and the mifcarriages in them may r beON RUPTURES. 289 be thought to be deducible from other caufes: all I can fay is, that it appeared to me, that the patients fuffered principally, if not merely, from this caufe; and that as I am by repeated experience convinced, that a portion of the omentum, however large, may be extirpated with perfect fafety, with- out being previoufly tied, I mall never prac- tife, or advife the ligature. CASE VII. A man, about thirty years old, was taken into St. Bartholomew's hofpital for a con- fiderable fwelling of the groin and fcrotum. The account he gave of himfelf was as follows: That he had for feveral years, a rupture, which many furgeons, who had feen it, had deemed to be merely omental: that he had formerly had a trufs, but whether from its being ill made, or from his injudicious manner of wearing it, it had never kept his rupture properly up, and he had long difufed it j and that the day before he was brought into the hofpital, a horfe had kicked him in the groin, and brought Vol. III. U on200 OBSERVATIONS on that increafe of pain and fwelling" of which he now complained. It was Mr. Nourfe's week for accidents, and he confequently took the care of him. He was let blood, had a glyfler, and' a poul- tice was applied. The next day the fweljiug was the fame, and the man had not had any flool. A purge was adminiftered, which he ejected by vomit j and another glyfler was injected in the evening. On the third day, finding that nothing had palled, Mr. Nourfe mf- pe&ed that the interline was concerned: he bled the man again largely, and ordered two fpoonfuls of a purging mixture to be given every two hours, until he mould have iloois. That evening he vomitted two or three times, and next morning being frill without a flool, Mr. Nourfe determined upon the operation. The' hernial fac was found, thick and tough, and contained a portion of omentum, and fome bloody water. Mr. Nourfe and myfelf both examined the omentum care- fully, upon a fuppofition that we lhould find fome inteftine within it. It was per- fectly found, but its velTels were coniiderably dilated:ON RUPTURES. 20 I dilated: there was no interline, nor did the tendon bind upon the omentum. As there was no gut down, and as the portion of caul was now too large to repafs the ring, Mr. Nourfe made a ftrict ligature on, it, juft on this fide, and cut it off. Soon after the operation, the man had (tools, but during that night, got little or no fleep, and complained of much pain. The next day he was worfe, was feverifh, com- plained of great pain about his navel, and that he could not fit or ftand upright, but had two loofe ftools. On the third day he was ftill worfe; that is, had more fever, complained that his pain in his belly was excefiive, and could keep nothing on his ftomach, On the fourth day, toward evening, his pain fuddenly left him, and early in the morning, he died. Mr. Nourfe, who was ftill apprehenfive that the inteftinal canal was fome way or other concerned in the mifchief, ciefired me to open the body. The abdominal tendon was found and unhurt, nor was there any fuch appearance about the wound as always accompanies mifchief proceeding from thence: the in- U 2 teftines2p2 OBSERVATIONS teftines were perfectly free from blemifh, inflammation, or obftruction, nor was there any appearance of difeafe of any kind on or about any of the vifcera, except the omen- tum, which was gangrenous through its whole extent. What (hare the inflammation of the omentum might have in preventing a free paffage through the interlines I know not, nor to what other caufe fuch obftruclion might poffibly be owing; but that the omen- tum was found, at the time of the operation, and gangrenous when the patient died, is beyond all doubt. CASE VIII. A man, about forty years old, who had for feveral years been afflicted with a rupture which had always been deemed to be merely omental, was brought into St. Bartholomew's hofpital, labouring under all the fymptoms of an inteftinal hernia, with ftsiclure} and thofe fo preffing, that the operation im- mediately performed was his only chance. Upon dividing the fac, a large piece of omentumON RUPTURES. 293 omentum (which was confiderably thicken- ed in its texture, and whofe veffels were confiderably diftended) prefented itfelf. This was carefully expanded, as far as it would admit, and laid firft. on one fide, and then on the other, but no other body difcovered. The incifion being continued higher up, in order to get at the ring, as it is called, a portion of inteftine was difcovered; it was fo fmall, as hardly to confift of the whole diameter of the gut, but begirt very tightly. I had, when the inteftine was fairly in view, a mind to try whether I could not return it without dividing the tendon, and fuc- ceeded in the attempt. When this was done, the confideration was, what to do with the omentum. It was fo large, and fo af- fected by ftri&ure, that it could not repafs the abdominal tendon without divifion: as the gut was returned, it feemed a pity to divide the tendon merely on account of the caul: it was therefore determined to tie it, and cut it off. The man had a plentiful (tool in an hour after the operation, but toward evening, and during the night, was much out of order. Next morning he was hot and refi- ll 3 lefs,294 OBSERVATIONS lefs, had a frequent and full pulfe, com- plained of great pain about his navel, and all over his belly, which was much too tenfe, and he was now and then very fick. Blood was drawn from him freely; he had an oily, laxative glyfter; and Dr. Pitcairn directed for him. On the third day, all his febrile fymptoms, and his pain, were much exafperated, notwithstanding he had three or four ftools. I think I may venture to fay, that both the phyfician and myfelf, did every thing in our power for him ; but on the fourth evening he died. As the cafe had given me feme concern, upon a fuppofition that the man might have had a better chance, had the tendon been divided for the return of the gut, I opened him as foon as I had notice of his death. I examined the whole inteftinal canal, and found it free from blemifh : the peritoneum was unaltered; but all that was left of the omentum was gangrenous. CASEON RUPTURES. 295 A man, about thirty-fix years old, was a patient in St. Bartholomew's for a fore leg. While he was there, he defired me to look at a rupture, which he had long had, and which was clearly omental and ir- reducible. When his leg was well, he defired me to cut him, as he called it; alleging, that his rupture was fo troublefome, that it prevent- ed him from following his bufinefs. I refufed it, and directed him to wear a fuf- penfory bag. He folicited me again and again, and at laft, overcome by his importunity, I per- formed the operation. The fac was thin, and the piece of omentum not large, nor at all altered, nor was there any thing elfe in the bag, I made a ligature, and cut it off without meddling with the tendon. From the time of the operation, he was in con- ftant pain all over his belly. Bleeding, laxative medicines, glyfters, &c. were adminiftered, but to no purpofe. U 4 On296 OBSERVATIONS On the fourth day he died, and had no ap- pearance of mifchief about him, except a highly inflamed omentum. INTESTINAL HERNIA. When a portion of inteftine, which has parTed out from the cavity of the abdomen through the opening in the oblique mufcle, is fo begirt as not to be capable of executing its proper office, the perfon, to whom this happens, may be faid to be in immediate danger. The general offices of the inteftinal tube are, digeftion of the food, formation of chyle, impulfion of it into the lacleals, and expul- fion of the faeces forth from the body. If thefe fo necefTary functions are, for any con- fiderable time, fufpended or prevented, the confequence is too obvious to need mention- ing: fortunately for mankind, this cannot happen unknown to us. Whenever fuch. ftricture is made, fymptoms and complaints arife which warn us of our danger: pain, tumefaction, and incapacity of going to ftool, are the firft and moft immediate effects j if the cafe be negleded, or no proper remedy ufed,ON RUPTURES. 297 ufed, inflammation, fever, ficknefs and vo- mitting, (oon follow^ and thefe are often, in a (hort fpace of time, fucceeded by hiccough, gangrene, and mortification. Whoever confiders what the firft of thefe are indica- tions of, and knows what will inevitably be the confequence if they be not obviated, muft be fenfible, that the very flighteft attack of this kind ought to put us on our guard, and excite us to ufe our utmoft endeavours to prevent farther mifchief. How long the firft and feemingly flighteft fymptoms may conti- nue before material injury be done, no man can pretend to fay; this muft depend upon a variety of circumftances, and will be differ- ent in different cafes; but as no man can be duly and intimately acquainted with thefe circumftances, and as the change from the moft flight to the moft hazardous is fome- times very rapid, no one can be vindicated in fuffering the fmalleft portion of time to be loft by waiting a few hours. The firft thing to be done is to attempt the reduction of the inteftine; if this fails, our next endeavour muft be to relieve the fymptoms, and thereby remove the obflruc- tion to fuch reduction. 6 The298 OBSERVATIONS The means prefcribed for this purpofe are, phlebotomy, glyfters, cathartics, a femicupi- um, or warm bath, fomentation, embroca- tion, and cataplafm; and thefe, by the generality of our writers of fyftems and in- fiitutes, are ordered indifcriminately, as if their efficacy were nearly equal, and it was a matter of indifference which a practi- tioner made ufe of. This I cannot con- ceive to be true: fome of them are really ufeful; but others, as far as my experience goes, of little or no ufe at all; among the former, I reckon phlebotomy, cathartic me- dicines, glyfters, and the warm bath; among the latter, embrocation, fomentation, and poultice: the former have faved many a life: from the latter, I never faw any mate- rial benefit, though I have often and often tried them; and I am much inclined to be- lieve, that the ufe of them has coft many a perfon dear, by occafioning a lofs of that time which ought to have been-otherwife em- ployed. The inflammation, and diftention of the interline can never be removed while it is begirt by the tendon of the abdominal mufcle; whatever may be the original caufe of the ftricture, the effect muft be the fame; theON RUPTURES. 299 the tendon lies out of the reach or influ- ence of a greafy poultice; the external fkin may indeed be relaxed by it, and fome fmall part of the uneafinefs may thereby be relieved, but this is of no importance toward appealing the fymptoms, leffening the ha- zard, or affording a remedy for the original evil: the mere relaxation of the fkin will'not affect the ffridture made by the tendon, the warmth of the poultice will increafethediften- tion, and the inr.efr.ine will become gangren- ous, notwithstanding a fmall part of the exter- nal inflammation may feem to be appeafeda. If the fymptoms are neither fuch, nor fo prefling, as to require the chirurgic oper- ation ; or if the fears and apprehenfions of the patient, or of friends, prevent fuch operation, however neceffary it may be; the moft powerful and moll efficacious means of obtaining relief are, phlebotomy, warm water, and the exhibition of fuch medicines as are likely to produce ftools: by the firft we reduce the ftrength of the a Cold, difcutient applications, bid much fairer to retard the hafty progrefs of the inflammation, than warm ones; and will be found to anfwer the purpofe much better. Such as folutions offal ammoniac, cnui. in vinegar, the fp. mindcrcri, the acet. lythargirit. and fuch like. patient,3°° OBSERVATIONS patient, leffcn the velocity of the circu- lating fluids, moderate the febrile heat, and take the chance of a deliquium; by the fecond we endeavour to relax the tendinous opening by which the inteftine is begirt: and by the third, the difcharge of fasces, through the inteftinal canal, is attempted. The power of the two firft is clear and undoubted, but I cannot help thinking, that we are, in fome degree, wrong about the lafl. Cathartic medicines have, in all times, been prefcribcd in the cafe of hernia with fhicture; but the true intention, which ought by their means to be aimed at, does not feem to have been, in general, clearly underftood : this perhaps is the reafon why practitioners and writers difagree fo much about the kind of medicines which they think moft proper; fome advifing thofe which are of the lenient unirritating kind, others prefcribing thofe which are moft fti- mulating: both cannot be right, and there- fore it may be worth while to inquire, what fhould be the point aimed at, and which are the moft likely means to accomplilh fuch end. Is a difcharge, per anum, the primary view, and therefore the firft object of at- tention ? or is fuch difcharge to be regarded onlyON RUPTURES. 301 only as a neceflary, or natural confequence of the removal of the inteftine from its prifon ? If the former be the cafe, it is clear, that in the circumftances in which fuch patient muft be, ftools cannot be procured too foon, or by means which are too eafy; and that fuch medicines as are moft likely to Hip through without ftimulus, or irrita- tion, muft be the moft proper, and moft likely to anfvver the end : but if the cafe be otherwife, if the firft view fhould be to ex- tricate the gut from its ftriclure, and the difcharge of faeces is to be regarded only as a neceffary confequence of fuch removal, then, I think, it is as clear, that fuch lenients are unfit, becaufe unequal to the tafk; and that a power or faculty of ftimu- lating or irritating the mufcular coat of the inteftinal canal, ought to be the property of whatever is adminiftered. That a depletion of that canal is a great and immediate relief to the patient, by un- loading the belly, and leffening the tenfion, is beyond a doubt; and it is as true, that without fuch difcharge, the patient muft perim, even though the ftri&ure be taken off; but ftill the two objects are diftincl and different,302 OBSERVATIONS different, and the removal or extrication of the imprifoned piece is clearly the fitft''. When purgative medicines of any kind are given by the mouth, in the cafe of a ftran~ gulated hernia, and do not fucceed in remov- ing the interline from the ftriclure, they are either rejected by vomit, or by deriving an increafed quantity of acrimonious faecal mat- ter downward, add to the pain and tenfion of the belly. This is a very material objection to the ufe of all cathartics, given by the mouth, and more efpecially to thofe whofe bulk or quantity is at all largej and renders the ap^ plication of fuch kind of medicines to that b It may not improperly, in this place, be afked, whether the operation of a purging medicine may not be different from cither of thefe? and whether it may not be in an incarcerated hernia what it fometimes is in an ileus, where it often feems to a£t by overpowering that fpafm which had begun to excite in- flammation, and would foon bring on mortification? What ftill adds force to this method of reafoning is, the confideration of the great relief always obtained from a warm bath. Whether this be generally true or not, it is certainly well worth confider- ation. May not from this alfo be inferred the reafon why opium, joined with purgatives, is fometimes, in the fame, difeafe, found to render the operation of the latter more fuccefsful ? I PartON RUPTURES-. 3O3 part of the inteftinal canal which is below the ftricture, much preferable. Indeed the fuperior advantages of ftimu- lating medicines, given per anum, are, in this cafe, many and great; they give much lefs difturbance to the ftomach, they occafion no pain in the belly, nor do they at all in- creafe the load or tenfion ; they may be re- peated frequently, and, what is of the moft confequence, they may conhft of fuch ma- terials as cannot properly, or indeed fafely, be given by the mouth. All thefe are ma- nifeft advantages, but the laft circumftance is peculiarly fo, for the tobacco-fmoke can- not poffibly be fwallowed, nor would any man in his fenfes think of putting the in- fufion into the ftomacb, although it is well known, not only that both may be very fafely adminiftercd in the form of glyfter, but that they are the moft powerfully efficacious, and the moft ufeful medicines we are acquainted with, for fuch purpofe. I have mentioned the fmoke and the in- fufion of tobacco, as being equally ufeful, and have, from repeated experience, found them fo. Where a proper machine is at hand, or can304 OBSERVATIONS can eafily be procured, I fhould certainly prefer the fmoke to the infufion; becaufe, the effects which both are apt to produce on the nervous fyftem of the patient are, I think, lighter in the former, than in the latter; but where fuch machine has not been at hand, nor could be procured without a lofs of time, which, in thefe cafes, is always precious, I have frequently ufed the infufion, and generally very fuccefsfully. The fymp- toms arifing from the intoxicating quality of the tobacco, the languor, the cold fweat, 6cc. which this weed caufes, more efpecially in thofe who have not been accuftomed to it, are, as I have faid, I think, rather more from the infufion than from the fmoke; but, though I have often ufed it, I do not re- member ever to have feen any ill effect from it. It generally makes the patient very fick°, and produces a fainting and a cold fweat, which, to thofe who do not immediately re- flect on the intoxicating quality of tobacco, and the fymptoms of fuch intoxication, may appear alarming; but whether it be from the e The infufion, which I have always ufed, has been made by pouring one pint of boiling-water on one drachm of tobacco. fwooning,ON RUPTURES. 305 fwooning, or From the irritation made in the fnteftinal canal* or> which is much more likely, from both conjointly, I have, feveral times, feen ruptures, which have refifted all attempts by the hand, return of themfeives, untouched, during the influence of fuch glyfter. Many other Simulating applications to the rectum, I have, at different times, made trial of, but never found any at all equal, in ef- fect, to the tobacco; nor did I ever fee any of them produce that eonvulfive motion of the mufcles of the abdomen, which moll frequently accompanies the ficknefs attending the ufe of this weed, and which, although fatiguing and troublefome While it lads, yet is certainly one of the means whereby the extrication of the portion of inteftine is ac- complifhed. I have alfo feveral times feert them both fail, after fair and repeated trial. Whoever expects infallibility in medicine, will be dif- appointed; but I can, with truth affirm, that I have feen both the fmoke and the in- fufion fucceed much oftener than any thing elfe, and fometimes in very defperate cafes. Vol, III. X CASE•OBSERVATIONS C A S E X. I was defired to vifit a ruptured patient with Mr. James, then furgeonto St. Luke's hofpital. The patient was a itout, healthy man, about thirty} the rupture was large, hard, painful, and beginning to be inflamed on the outfide; no ftool had pafled for two days j the man had great pain all over his belly, and a frequent vomiting. Mr. James had many times tried to reduce it; he had bled him freely, and had given both purges and glyfters, but all without effect. The ferotum was exceedingly tenfe, and the pain which attended the moft gentle handling was fo exquifite, as not only to render all at- tempts for reduction, by the hand, improper, but hazardous. It was about noon when I faw the man: every thing except the tobacco had been tried j the fymptoms were advancing haftily, and the operation was propofed and fubmitted to; but while our things were getting ready, we thought we might as well try the fmoke-glyfter. One ounce of tobacco was expended with- out any effect at all, either general or local; butON RUPTURES, 307 but toward the confumption of another, the patient became Tick and faint, and complained of a ftrange kind" of motion in his belly, and alfo in his rupture. Upon turning the bed- clothes back, the motion was not only to be felt within the fcrotum, but was even vifible; this motion continued about two minutes, when the inteftine, without being touched, returned j the man became immediately eafy; and, in half an hour, had a plentiful difcharge per anum. CASE XI. In the month of September, 1767, I was fent for in a hurry to fome little diftance from London, in order to perform the operation for the bubonocele. I found a very large rupture on the right fide, and that in fo painful a ftate, as not t$ permit the moft gentle handling. "The patient had been treated with the greateft propriety; had been freely and repeatedly let blood, had taken purging medicines, glyfters, &c. and had been feveral times in a bathing-tub: his vomiting was frequent, he had a tendency to a hiccough, and he could not bear to extend, X 2 in3©8 OBSERVATIONS in the fmalleft degree, the thigh on the rup tured fide. The operation had been confented to before I had been fent for; but upon my afking the gentleman who attended, if he had a machine for giving the tobacco-fmoke glyfter, and being anfwered in the affirmative, we determined to try it firft. When about half an hour had been fpent in the continual impulfion of the fmoke, the man cried out, My rupture is going up; and, in the fpace of two or three minutes, it did fo, with a noife which was heard by every one in th* room. CASE. XII. A gentleman, whom I had long known, had often mewed me a rupture, which he baa laboured under as long as he could remember, and which was now and then troublefome to him, becaufe he could not wear a trufs to keep it within the abdomen. It was of the conge- nial kind; that is, thefacof the hernia was formed by what mould have been the tunica vaginalis teftis, but his tcftide, on that fideON RUPTURES. 3OO, had never defcended from the groin, but lay juft on the outfide of the abdominal opening, neither had the portion of inteftine got any lower, fo that both of them lay together; on which account he not only never could wear a trufs, but even the waiftband of his breeches, if buttoned tight, was troublefome. This gentleman was fuddenly feized with the fymptoms of a ftri&ure, and thofe not flight, even at the firft attack. The piece of inteftine, though always in the groin when he was in an eredt pofture, had always gone up upon his going to bed, and was always return- able when he was fupine. He tried now to reduce it as ufual. He fent for me, and all my attempts were equally fuccefslefs. His belly was very hard, he began to vomit, and the tefticle became very painful to the touch. All the circumftances were difagreeable, the fymptoms advanced with uncommon rapidity, the portion of gut was fmall, the tefticle in- flamed, and fomewhat enlarged: an operation might become neceflary, but could not, in fuch circumftances, be defirable. He was bled freely, even to fwooning; purging medicines were given, and immediately rejedted; glyfters had no effecl:, but were as X 3 immediately3i6 Observations 8 W immediately returned; and the patient, know* ing his own fituation, was much alarmed. Dr, de la Cour, who was his phyfician, was called in, and having tried the tobacco-fmoke, ineffectually, we agreed to throw up a pint of the infuflon, made as before related, It fooq. made him exceedingly fick and faint, and caufed a large difcharge of wind, upward and downward, from which I expected a return of the gut, but in vain. At the diftance of an hour or two, the infufion was repeated, with the fame effect of faintnefs and ficknefs, during which, he was put into warm water, and when he had been in it a few minutes, the flighted application of the hand obtained immediate reduction, and ftools, C A S E XIII. The late Mr. Fullager defired me to go -with him to fee a wine-merchant in Billiter- lane, who had all the fymptoms of flrangula- tion in the cafe of a fcrotal hernia, and whofe rupture he had ineffectually endeavoured to reduce. I tried, and was alfo foiled. The fymptoms were rather prefling. Mr. Smith,ON RUPTURES. 311 in Cheapfide, who had been the apothecary to Mr. James's patient, was alfo apothecary here. It was determined that I fhould meet Mr. Fullager again, in about three hours, in order to perform the operationj and that, in the mean time, Mr. Smith mould throw up the tobacco-fmoke. . At the appointed time we met, and found Mr. Smith employed as we had defired; I laid my hand on the rupture to examine the ftate of it, and it was wonderful with what facility it went up. The fame thing, exactly, happened to me with a coachman of the late Dr. Nicol of the Charter-houfe: but the fame man upon a return of the complaint, at about two years diftance, was not again fo fortunate; the fmoke and infufion both failed, and the oper- ation was performed; but too late. It is as yet, with many, a difputed point, in the cafe of incarceration of a portion of inteftine in a hernia, whether the ftricture made by the tendon be original or confe- quentialj or, in other words, whether the difeafe be not originally in the inteftine, and X 4 the312 OBSERVATIONS the ftricture a mere effect of its diflodgment; and diftention. The arguments ufed in fup- port of the latter opinion are by no means void of force, but at the fame time, I cannot think them conclufive. The perfect health and eafe of many, nay of every body, immedi- ately before a fudden defcent, the very prefix- ing and alarming fymptoms with which fuch defcent is often attended almou: inftan- taneoufly, and the relief which reduction im^ mediately produces in the majority of fuch cafes, together with the immediate and total removal or diflipation of all the evils occa- fioned by the confinement, feem to prove the .general opinion to be true. On the other hand, the perfectly quiet, eafy, and uncompreffed ftate of the parts, *m many instances, immediately previous to the invafion of bad fymptoms, in cafes where there has been no exertion of ftrength, nor any apparent acceffion of a larger and new portion of gut, are circumitances which, added to the incapacity of the tendon to-contract:, are well worth weighing, as they certainly give force to the former fup- pofition. As a mere point of fpeculation, it is not perhapsON RUPTURES. 313 perhaps a matter of very great importance; jbut, when confidered as applied to practice, and influencing our conduct with regard to the chirurgic operation, it becomes very jnterefting indeed. When the hand and the common means for reduction fail, the operation is our only refource, and if applied to in time, very feldom fails; fo feldom .that, I believe I might venture to fay, not one in fiftyd dies -of it, if timely and judicioufly executed; and when it becomes abfolutely neceffarv, it is the unicum remedium. This confiden- ation renders it a matter of ftill more im- portance ; for as in cafes where it becomes necelfary, and our only hope, it ought always to be propofedj for the fame reafons, in cafes where it is not neceffary, it ought not to be thought of; and where it cannot be of ufe, it ought not to be done. The inteftinal tube, wheiher within the belly jn its natural fituation, or thruft forth from it in the form of hernia, is liable to difeafes whofe fymptoms are peculiar to it- felf. Where there is no hernia, no body doubts concerning the nature of the cafe; d I mean of the operation confidered abftraftedly. but314 OBSERVATIONS but where there is one, from the nmilarity of the fymptoms, it always takes the blame; often defervedly, fometimes much the con- trary. In the cafe of old, unreduced hernias, there is no reafon why the portion of in- terne, forming fuch complaint, fhould be exempt from fuch diftempers as the canal is liable to; on the contrary, it is reafon- able to fuppofe, that by fuch unnatural fituation and confinement, it would be- come rather more liable. But be this as it may, certain it is, that inflammation of the inteftine, violent diftention of it, with lofs of periftaltic motion, and ftoppage of ftools, is fometimes the cafe in a hernia where the abdominal tendon has no mare in the mifchiefj and as certain it is, that in fuch cafe the operator can do no good. In fome inftances this may, by attentive in- quifition be learned, and the operation there- by preferved from a difgrace: in others, it can only be known by its proving unfuccefsful. When the difeafe is the mere confequence of flriaure, and the gut, previous to fuch ftriaure, was free from diftemper, it feldom, I mi^ht almoft venture to fay never hap- pens, but that the fcttipg it free is followedON RUPTURES. 3I5 by a difcharge per anum j efpecially" if fuch. intention he properly affifted : but when the difeafe was originally in the inteftine, and the inteltine either not bound by any ftric- ture, or a ftricr.ure the mere confequence of the previous diftemper of the gut, it moft frequently happens that fuch difcharge does not follow the operation, nor is obtainable by any means after it. This I have always regarded as a chara&eriftic mark of the true nature of the malady; to which I think, from what I have feen of thofe cafes, I might add another, which is the great diffi- culty, and, in fome cafes, impoflibility of keeping the reduced inteftine (after the oper- ation) within the belly. A circumftance which I have feen fometimes to be absolutely impoffibie. In the cafes where all the mif- chief arifes from the mere prolapfus and ftrifture, the returned inteftine becomes im- mediately pervious, and enjoying its peri- ftaltic motion, keeps its place, and does its office; but where, by previous diftemper, it is rendered impervious, and deprived of its motion, it cannot execute its office, it re- mains violently diftended, and is, with great difficulty, kept within the belty, of which I could316 OBSERVATIONS could give many inftances.. This is, on fe- veral accounts, a matter of importance, both to patient and furgeon : with regard to the former, it is not merely the alarm, anxiety, horror, and pain, which neceffarily attend an operation of fuch kind, and of fuch ferious confequence, and which, of them- felves, are furely enough; but the diftemper not refiding in, nor being produced by the tfriclure, the neceffary fymptomatic fever at- tending fuch an operation muft, in the nature of things, be a circumftance of ad- ditional hazard: and with regard to the •furgeon, the difficulty of returning the dik tended inteftine, and of keeping it in the belly after it has been returned, together with the mod frequent, and indeed moft probable event of fuch cafe, render, it very impleafant, and what every man would choofe to avoid. No man can command fuccefs, but every man would wifh to be in, the way of it, CONGENIAL HERNIA. The difference between thefe and other ruptures, is not a matter of mere anatomical fpeculation:ON RUPTUR1?9. 317 ipeculatlon: there are in the former feveral particularities which require a practitioner's very ferious attention, and which an oper- ator ought always to be aware of. The fac of a common hernia, every one knows, is formed by the protrufion, of the peritoneum, through the natural opening in the tendon of the external, oblique, mufcle of the abdomen. This fac, at firft, extends no farther than the groin, but is, by means of its contents, gradually pufhed lower and lower until it gets into the fcrotum. It always lies anterior to the fpermatic velTels,' and is enveloped in the cellular membrane, which makes the tunica communis of the faid veflels, forms a cavity perfectly diftincl: from the tunica vaginalis teftis, and never does, or can contain the tefticle within it. In the congenial hernia, the cafe is dif- ferent; in this, the fac is not formed by the unnatural protrufion of a portion of the peritoneum, which ought to have remained within the belly, but is made by the unclofed vaginal coat of the tefticle; confequently the faid fac, conftantly and neceflarily, contains , Within it the tcAicle, together with whatever elfe may have paffed from the abdomen to constitute313 OBSERVATIONS conftitute the hernia, and which: parts mtt{l therefore be in contact with the tefticle. From this particularity refult fo'me cir* cumftances very necefiary for a practitioner to be acquainted with. Such are the fol- lowing. 1. It fometimes happens that, in infants, a portion of inteftine flips down along with the tefticle, prevents the doling of the tu^ nica vaginalis, and thereby conftitutes the difeale. 2. It fometimes happens, that a portion of gut only comes down, the tefticle never paffing forth from the abdomen, or remain- ing in the groin, and falling no lower. 3. In this fpecies of hernia a ftricture, or ftriclures, are fometimes met with, which are formed merely by the contraction or coaraation of the neck of the vaginal coat or fac, independant of the abdominal tendon. And, 4. The parts contained in a common hernia, are liable to contract cohefions with each other, or with the fac; but in the con- genial, both omentum and gut are liable to become connected with the tefticlej which connedion will, fometimes, demand all the judgment,ON RUPTURES. 3 19 judgment, and all the dexterity of an oper- ator. So that, nice and delicate as the oper- ation of a bubonocele is in the moft fimple and common cafe, it becomes much more fo in the congenial rupture. CASE XIV. A boy, about fourteen years old, was taken into St. Bartholomew's hofpital for a ftrumous, lumbal abfcefs, the matter of which had made its way out in the upper part of the thigh. The difcharge was great, and the boy finking apace. While he lived, I took notice of a par- ticular appearance on one fide of thefcrotum. The fpermatic procefs, at its exit from the belly, was large and full, and plainly contained fomething which mould not be there: immediately below the fulnefs, the procefs was of little more than its natural fize; but juft above the tefticle, it was again confiderably enlarged, and had the fame •feel as above. The true ftate of the cafe remained in doubt till the boy died, at which time both thegzO OBSERVATIONS the fwellings were become manifeftly left than they had been . I opened his body* and examined the parts with fome care* The tunica vaginalis teftis was open to the abdomen, and contained a confiderable portion of omentum, which portion reached quite down to the tefticle, but did not adhere to it 3 in the mid-way be- tween the abdominal opening and the teftis, the hernial fac was fo contra&ed, that the piece of caul, embraced by the contraction, was not extricable by any force, and was preffed into a firm, hard fubftance: above and below, it was foft and expanfile, but void of fat as in all emaciated fubjeds. This hernia, therefore, added to its other parti- cularities, muft have been incapable of re* duttion without an operation* Much about the fame time, Mr. Reiley a very ingenious gentleman, who was then under me at St. Bartholomew's, mewed me a congenial hernia in a child he had then in diffedion, and in which a portion of m- teftine was begirt in the fame manner, fo as to be perfectly inextricable, but by divifion of the part. Had the child lived, and, at any time, been 1ON RUPTURES. 32 I teen under a neceffity of fubmittirig to the operation for a bubonocele, this ftri&ure, made by the fac only, and independent of the abdominal tendon, might have proved a very embarraffing circumftance in the oper- ation, and have occafioned a difficulty which might not have been forefeen; indeed, upon a view of it after death, it appeared wonder- ful, how the interline had executed its'office during the child's fhort life. C A S E XV. Thomas Lever, a lad about feventeen years old, was fent to St. Bartholomew's by Mr. Gray, of Colcheter. His complaint was a rupture which prevented his getting his bread, and which no body in the country had been able to reduce. The account he gave of himfelf was as follows: That he had had the rupture as long as he could rememberj that it had al- ways been down in the day, and up in the night, until within about fix months pafl, when he had been thrown over a horfe's head, and bruifed againft the pummel, of the faddlej that the blow gave him fo Vol. HI. y great322 OBSERVATIONS great pain, at the time, as to occafion his fwooning; that the pain continued fome hours, and was followed hy inflammation- and fwelling, which lafted fome days; and that, from that time, he had never been able to get his rupture up. The fcrotum was large and full, but not at all tenfe; it plainly contained a portion of inteftfne, but there was no fymptom, nor any appearance of the fmalleft degree of flriclure. Upon attempting reduction, fome part of the gut pafled eafily and freely into the abdomen, but a confiderable portion of it remained, nor could by any means be made to follow. The tefticle was very dif- tinguimable below,- and feemed to be of its natural fize, and in a natural ftate, except that from the epididymis there proceeded a fmall, hard body, which body became tight when the returnable part of the gut went in- to the belly, and feemed to be what hindered the return of the whole.. The boy was in perfect health, had no obftru&ion to his dis- charge per anum, nor any complaint rela- tive to the inteftinal canal. A part of the inteftine was, as I have already laid, return- able with the greateft eafe; but even this wouldON RUPTURES* 323 Would not remain a moment after the finger which returned it was removed, not even in a lupine poflure. A complete reduction Was found impracticable, the parts were in fuch a ilate, that no benefit could be pro- poSed from evacuation of any kind. To put a trufs on was not only ufelefs, but mis- chievous ; and to leave a boy of Seventeen, who was to get his bread by hard lftbour, with his fcrotum loaded with interline, liable, by every exertion, to be increafed, and by any inflammation to become flran- gulated, could not be thought of. It was therefore, after very mature de- liberation, deemed advifable to give him the very probable chance of a cure by an operation. The very eafy return of part of the gut into the belly convinced me, that I muft not expect to find any fluid in the Sac; and the boy's own account Satisfied me that the hernia was congenial, and had the tunica vaginalis for its fac. I made my inciSion very cautioufly, and found both theSe circumllances to be true. In the bag was a Small portion oS the ileum, and that part of the colon called the caecum. Y 2 with324- OBSERVATIONS with its appendicula vermiformis j the former was loofe, but the latter was adherent to the epidydimis and tefticle. It took fome little time to fepafate thefe connexions in fuch manner as to injure neither of the parts, but when that was accomplished, a very fmall divifion of the tendon ferved to obtain a complete reduction of the whole, and tne boy went home well in about fix weeks. If this lad had not undergone the oper- ation at the time he did, and inflammation with ftridure had, at any future time, at- tacked him, his chance of prefervation would have been but fmall. The adhefion would have rendered reduction impractica- ble; but this not being known, would have at leaft occafioned a wafte of time in un- neceffary, fruitlefs attempts, &c.; uh'lefs it may be fuppofed that, after fuch attack, the inteftine could be rendered pervious and capable of executing its office by means of purging and ftimulating medicines (which, b this°fitnation of things, I am not much inclined to believe) it is clear, that nothing but the operation could have ferved him ; which operation, (the circumflance of adhefionON RUPTURES. adhefion not being known) would not in all probability, have been propofed one minute too foon. Befides which, when all the parts were got into a ftate of inflammation* the feparation of the cohefion might not, perhaps, have been executed fo readily. A cafe in fome degree like to this, was in St. Bartholomew's about a year ago under the care of Mr. Younge. It was in a boy about eleven years old. His fcrotum was much enlarged, and contained fomething of confiderable fize; but there was neither pain, inflammation, tenfion, nor impediment in going to flogl; notwithstanding the abfence of all bad fymptoms, the boy, from the mere fize of the tumor, was prevented from doing any thing either by way of exercife or work. The operation was performed the hernia, which was congenial, was both inteftinal, and omental. I am fure I am within the truth when I fay, that there were ten differ- ent adhefions of the omentum to the fac, and two to the tefticle: nor was this all, for the upper part of the fac was fo narrow, that it might well have been miftaken for a uridine made by the tendon. tjad the portion of inteftine, in this cafe Y 3 ' been-■26 OBSERVATIONS been at any time increafed, fo as to have pro- duced a ftri&ure, bad fymptoms would foon have come on, and what trouble might not have been expected from parts fo circum- ftanced; not one of which could have been known previoufly to the operation, A fudden attack of great pain in the belly, attended with ficknefs and vomiting, and an incapacity of going to (tool, imply the proba- bility of a rupture being the caufe; efpeci- ally if the perfon fo attacked either has at that time, or has had one, Pain in the belly, naufea, vomiting, and conftipation, are the general fymptoms of an obftruaion in fome part of the internal ca- nal, and denote, among other things, a per- verfion, alteration, and, perhaps, ibmetimes, ceflation of its periftaltic motion. They do not indeed point out what the particular caufe may be; but let it be what it may, if it be not foon removed, the patient mud fink. An incarcerated hernia, as it is called, is a difeafe caufed by fuch ftricVe made on a part of the inteftinal canal, as not only flops r itsON RUPTURES. 327 its proper motion, and prevents the pafiage of the fasces through it, but alfo hinders the circulation of blood through its veffels, and very foon induces a mortification. The fame fymptoms have fometimes been produced by an inflammation, or by a fpaf- modic affecfion of the fame part in perfonj who, if they have had a hernia, have not had any ftriclure in it, and alfo in perfons who have had no hernia at alL The great and material difference between the two cafes is, that in the one the fymptoms are occafioned by an affection of a part of the inteftinal tube thruft forth from its natural fituation within the belly, and begirt by a ftri&urej and in the other, they arife from an affect ion of a part of the fame canal, not begirt, nor thruft forth, but remaining in its proper place. The general complaints at- tending each of thefe difeafes are fo alike, and are fo very difficult to be diftinguifhed from each other, that whenever they appear to any violent degree, the places in which her- nia? make their appearance ought always to be inquired into or examined, more efpeci- ally in women; for although the fymptoms referoble each other fo much, the caufes of Y 4 them328 OBSERVATIONS them are materially different, and render one an object of furgery, while the other is not at all fo. Whoever refle&s on thefe facts, mud fee the propriety, or, indeed, the ne-. ceifity of fuch inquiry as may determine the true nature of the malady ; that a rupture, if it be the caufe, may be immediately reduced; or that not being the cafe, that the paflio illiaca may be properly treated. Thefe circumftances are'fuch, that the ha-, zard or fafety of the patient often depends upon them, and therefore require the very ferious attention of the practitioner: but ma- terial as they are, they are not all, there are others which equally demand his regardd. A rupture doth not preclude or prevent in- flammation, or fpafm, or whatever elfe may be the caufe of mifchief from attacking any other part of the inteftinal canal not includ-r ed within the hernial iac; neither doth it prevent the fame kind of evils from falling on that part of the inteftine which is within the fac, and thereby producing mifchief indepen- dent of the rupture, although a'ffeaing the rf The obfervation of Plainer, who fays, " Nec facile m- << veniuntur nots qu» oftendunt ex qua occafione inteftina la- V borant," is ftriftly juft and true.ON RUPTURES. 329 part within, or caufing it. And it alfo fome- times happens, thatperfons airlifted with un- reduced, or irreducible ruptures, are rendered incapable of difcharging their fseces per anum, by caufes which have not the leaft connection with, or dependence upon the rupture, or the inteftine contained within it. Thus it becomes a furgeon's care to endeavour to be able not only to know when a hernia is the caufe of bad fymptoms, but alfo when it is not; as his conduct upon thefe d/fferent oc- casions muft be very materially different: for, on the one hand, if the mifchief arifes from the inteftine being bound by a ftricture, no- thing but the reduction of it by the hand, or the fetting it free lfy the chirurgic operation, can preferve the patient; but on the other, if the fymptoms proceed from another caufe even though the portion, of inteftine within the hernia mould be the immediate feat of the evil, the attempts for reduction will be painful and vain, the operation at beft ufelefs, and moft probably prejudicial; and if the feat and caufe of the mifchief be not within the rupture, both the laft-mentioned attempts become thereby ftill more improper, more ufelefs, and more pernicious. . \C A S EOBSERVATIONS 33° CASE XVI, An old gentleman, who had for many years had an irreturnable rupture of the mixed kind, and which I had often feen, was feized with the fymptoms of an obftruclion in the inteftinal canal. He complained of great pain in his whole belly, but particularly about his navel; he was hot and reftlefs, and had a frequent in- clination to vomit; his pulfe was full, hard, and frequent; and he had gone, contrary to his ufual cuftora, three days without a ftool. I examined his rupture very carefully j the procefs was large and full, as ufual, but not at all tenfe or painful upon being hand- led ; his belly was much fwollen and hard, and he could hardly bear the light preffurc of a hand about his navel. Upon mature confideration of the whole, I was of opi- nion, that his rupture had no fhare in his prefent complaints. But as fome of his fymptoms refembled thofe of a ftri&ure, I defned that more advice might be had. A phyfician and furgeon were called: I gave * >h themON" RUPTURES. 33I them an account of what I had feen of the cafe, of my opinion concerning the irreduci- bility of the rupture, and that it had no £hare in the prefent complaint: at the fame time defiring my colleague to examine for himfelf. We tried at reduction without fuccefs, but he thought that there was (till a ftricture. The Doctor ordered bleeding, glyfters, and cathartics: the laft were im- mediately rejected by vomit, and the glyfter came away without any mixture of faeces. Bleeding was repeated ad deliquium, the tobacco-fmoke was injected, but all to rro purpofe. The operation was propofed, but as the cafe did not appear to me to require it, I could not fecond the motion 5 it was, however, mentioned to the patient, who would not confent unlefs I would fay -that I thought it neceffary, and believed it would be fuccefsful: I could not fay either, becaufe I believed neither. Every ^ thing elfe that art could fuggeft or practife, was tried; but on the fixth day he died. As it had been fuppofed that I was wrong and pofitive, I was very glad that his friends chofe to have him opened. The hernial fac was thick and hard, and contained-332 OBSERVATIONS contained a large portion of omentum, a piece of the ileum, and a portion of the co- lon, all perfectly found, free from inflam- mation or ftricture, and irreturnable only from quantity. But the inteftine jejunum was greatly diftended, highly inflamed, and, in Come parts, fphacelated, CASE XVII. John Dew ell, a mBii about thirty, was brought into St..Bartholomew's, labouring, as was fuppofed, under an incarcerated hernia. He had not had a ftool for three days, although he had taken both purges and glyftersj he vomited aim oft inceffantly, his pulfe was hard and frequent, but not full, and his countenance befpoke death. He had a rupture ; it was on the right fide, was clearly inteflinal, was foft, eafy, occafioned no pain upon being handled, and feemed to be capable of reduction ; but after many trials, 1 found that I could not ac- complifh that end, notwith flan ding I ufed my utmoft endeavours; all wliich gave the man no. uneafmefs, and therefore Satisfied me,ON RUPTURES- 3,3'$ me, that his fymptoms did not arife from his hernia, which was alfo the patient's own opinion. Mr. Nourfe coming into the ward, I de- fired him to look at the man: he thought that, notwithftanding the feemingly quiet ftate of the rupture, a fmall portion of gut might be fo engaged, as to caufe his prefent mifchief, and therefore that the operation, was warrantable and proper. Suppofing it to be right at all, it could not be done too foon, and therefore we fet about it immediately. The hernial fac was formed by the tunica vaginalis ; it contained a portion of inteftine ileum, which had contracted a flight cohe- fion with the tefticle, but was fo perfectly free from ltricture, that, when we had loofened it from its connection, we returned it into the belly without dividing the tendon. I was indeed afraid that the man would have died before we could have got him to bed, but he lived till the next.day. A portion of the colon within the belly had been in a , ftate of inflammation, was now plainly mortified, and quite black. CASEOBSERVATIONS 334 CASE XVIII. I was defired to be prefent at the open> ing of the body of a gentleman, whofe dif- eafe and death had occafioned fome alter- cation among thofe who had attended him. The account given of him while living was, that to the age of fifty-fix he had en- joyed an uninterrupted ftate of health. That at the age of forty, he difcovered a rupture, for which he immediately took ad- vice, and put on a trufs: that the trufs not anfwering the purpofe, he foon direw it aiide, and fuffered his rupture to take its courfe. That it gradually increafed until it became both vilible and troublefome. That he then applied to Mr. Sainthill, and Mr. Samuel Sharpe, both of whom en- deavoured to reduce it but in vain, and both advifed him to wear a lulpenfory bag, which he, from that time, had conftantly done. That from that time he had never complained of any uneafinefs but what was occafioned by its mere weight. That he very feldom miffed having a ftool every morning.6n ruptures. morning. That about two years before his death, he began to complain of frequent pain about his bladder and fundament. That thefe pains had affected him near three months before he found any alteration in his faecal difcharge; but that from that time,, he had been conftantly corlive; and for the laft fix months, had never pafled a ftool without a very Simulating purge, and even then with great difficulty. That he had fre- quently taken advice, had a variety of me- dicines preformed, from none of which he ever reaped any other than the temporary benefit of purging. That in all this time, no alteration had ever been found or per- ceived in his rupture, either regarding its fize, or any other circumftance. That for feven or eight weeks before his death, he had worn a very morbid afpec"t, was become exceedingly emaciated, and had totally loft all appetite, his pains alfo being more fre- quent, and more acute. And that for the laft week, he neither had, nor could obtain any the fmalleft degree of ftool. This fymptom had been, by thofc who were called to him laft, attributed to his hernia; and the operation had been much •prefled336 OBSERVATIONS preffed on one fide, and objected to on th« other. The hernial fac was old, large, and thick j its contents, omentum, much hardened* and a confiderable portion of the interline ileum, both perfectly found and unaltered* and not bound by the fmaileft degree of ftri&ure ; the ftomach, liver, fpleen, and fmall interlines, without blemifh, but con- fiderably diftended; but about five inches of that part of the colon neareft to the rectum was fo contracted, that it was quite impervious, and fo hardened, that it was like nothing fo little as a portion of gut. CASE XIX, A man, about forty, was brought to St, Bartholomew's with a fuppofed incarcerated hernia. He had a very fwollen, tight belly, a frequent pain, and vomiting, and no {tools } and this had been the cafe for three days, during which time, very proper attempts had been made both for reduftion and Pa^° NeitherON RUPTURES. 337 Neither the fcrotum, nor the parts about the groin, feemed to indicate that the feat of the evil was there, although the parts were certainly too tenfe, and a portion of inteftine was palpably in a hernial fac. It was Mr. Crane's week, who was out of London ; and Mr. Edmund Pitt, who acted for him, defired me to aflift in the operation, which was thought neceffary, as no dif- charge peranum could be procured. The hernial fac was of the congenial kind, and contained a portion of fmall in- teftine, which did not feem much, if at all, bound by the tendon, but it was fo ftrongly and univerfally adherent to the neck of the fac, that it was impoffible to think of fepar- ating it. A very unpleafant circumftance this. All that could be done was, to fet it free from all poffible ftridfcure, and if ftools could be.procured, to act afterwards as might be neceffary. Every means, of purge, glyfter, &c. was ufed, but no palfage procured j and on the fourth day from that of his admiffion, he died. The piece of inteftine, in the hernia, was that part of the ileum neareft to the colon, VoI«-Ilf- S and338 OBSERVATIONS and which was in good order, only adherent; but higher up toward the jejunum, it was abfolutely impervious for more than three inches in length. I have feen two other cafes fo nearly fimilar, that I need not repeat them. The following cafe has fome circum- fiances which may poffibly be worth the reader's notice. CASE XX, Thomas Marshall, aged fifty-four, was brought into St. Bartholomew's hof- pital, on the 25th of May, 1764, with a •large, painful, tumefied fcrotum. The ac- count which he gave of himfelf was, That, in his childhood, he had been afni&ed with a gut-rupture, for which he had worn a trufs until the rupture was fup- pofed to have been cured. That he had always been a regular, temperate, and hard- working man. That, on the 23d of April, he felt, while he was at work, a fudden, violent attack of a colic-pain, which, in a few hours, was followed by a flight purging. That,ON RUPTURES. 339 That, his pain not ceafing, he took forne tincture of rhubarb, from which he had three or four more motions. That* in the even- ing of the fecond day, he found a cohfider- abJe fwelling in his groin and fcrotum, on the fide where his rupture had formerly beem That, on the third, he went to work again, although he had much pain in his- belly, and a purging. That, on the fourth, he took fomething of the cordial kind, given him by a neighbour, and ftaid at home all that day and the next> during which he was pretty eafy, but had feveral loofe ftools. That, on the feventh day from that of his being firft taken ill, he went to work again * but was again attacked with fevere pain, and frequent vomiting: immediately after which, he found the fwelling in his fcrotum confiderably increafed. That, from this time, he was fo much, and fo conftantly uneafy, as to be obliged to keep his bed, it being the only place in which he could put himfelf in a tolerably eafy pofture. And that during the whole time, from the 29th of April to the 25th of May, he had very feldom had lefs than two ftools every day, often more. Z 2 The34° OBSERVATIONS The man was much emaciated, had a quick pulfe, a hot fkin, and confiderable thirft: the fcrotum was now very much on the ftretch, began to put on a purple kind of colour, and had, at the fame time, a watery load in its cellular membrane, but palpably contained a large quantity of fluid in the tu- nica vaginalis teftis. The whole tumor had a "pyriform kind of figure; the fper- matic procefs was hard and large, and clearly contained fomething which paffed into it from the belly, but which fomething did not de- fcend below the upper part of the fcrotum, while the lower part of the fame was fo dif- tended, as to be half way down the thigh, and was palpably filled by a fluid. The ftate of the parts were fuch, that it became neceffary to do fomething, left they fhould mortify. I made, with all poffible caution, an incifion through the loaded inte- guments into the cavity of the tunica vagi- nalis, and gave difcharge to near a quart of the moft offenfive brown liquor: upon the dif- charge of this, the lower part all fubfided j but the upper remained the fame. I then, with a crooked probe-pointed knife,divided the whole from below upward, and found that the bag containingON RUPTURES. 34! containing the fluid was a congenial hernial iac, whofe internal furface had all the ap- pearance of being mortified; and that the body, in its upper part, was a portion of in- teftine. This portion had, on its furface, feveral black and truly fphacelated fpots y fome larger, and fome fmaller; but the gut was ftill intire, and appeared moderately dif- tended with wind. I paffed my ringer through the opening in the abdominal mufcle, and could not find that it made the fmalleft de- gree of ftridture; but found, at the fame time, that the inteftine was fo firmly adher- ent to the fac, that, in its prefent ftate, it was equally impofiible to return, as to detach it. That night the man had two good ftools, and next morning, when I expected to have found him dead, he was confiderably better. I again examined the parts, to fee whether the inteftine could be returned; but again found that, had it been advifable, it was impracticable. The third day he was ftill better, and had a figured ftool. O As it appeared highly improbable, that the mortified fpots on the gut mould caft off without leaving a breach in the inteftine; I Z 3 thoughtOBSERVATIONS 8 thought that the beft that could happen, would be a difcharge of fasces through the wound, at lean: for a time: but I was mis- taken, for at the end of five days, during which he had taken the bark freely, all the efchars cad off, by a florid, good incarnation, and leaving no breach at all, the man became eafy, cheerful, and began to take nourifh- inent. From this time, the portion of inteftine in the groin feemed daily to retire upward, and become lefs vifible, and I began to entertain hope that we mould fee a very fortunate ter-r mination of this very miferable cafe. For the fpace of ten days he took the bark freely, and feemed every day better and better; but at the end of that time, he became again fe- verifh and languid; inftead of his ufual free- dom of-ftool, none could be procured, and he died. ■ The prolapfed gut had retired fa much, that, had the man lived, I make no doubt that it would have been included within the fore, and been firmly healed over : the places which had been fphacelated, were nuite healed; but about four inches of that " partON RUPTURES. 343 part of the inteftine, which was juft within the belly, was fo contracted as to become quite impervious, and perfectly fcirrhous. The intelligent will, I make no doubt, re- mark on fome parts of this cafe; and there- fore I (hall trouble him with one only, which is that fphacelated fpots on the furface of an inteftine are not always, and abfolutely, a prohibition againft returning fuch inteftine into the belly. CASE XXI. I was defired to meet Dr. De Valangin, Mr. Godman, and Mr. Boigue, in the cafe of a hernia with ftriclure. The patient was a man about the middle of life, his rupture was, I think, on his left fide, and when I faw him he had not had a ftool for feveral days, though the ufual means had been ufed. Upon examining the parts, they made as bad an appearance as poftible: they had been tumid, full and inflamed, they were now funk, flaccid, and completely mor- tified : notwithftanding which, I could not fay that the man appeared fo near to death 2 4 as344 OBSERVATIONS as fiich an appearance would indicate ; but at the fame time fo materially ill, that I could not fuppofe that he could receive any benefit from the art of furgery. The true intent of the operation, that of fetting the gut free from the ftricture, was of no confideration here: the ftricture had done all its mifchief; if the man was to live, the mortified parts muft caft off; and if he was to die, I thought it was hetter that we. friould not even appear to have a mare in his death, by an operation which I thought could not be ferviceable, and might be mifcon- ftrued. This was truly my opinion, and I gave it as fuch. But, overcome by the impor- tunity of the patient's wife, and to avoid feeming to be either earelefs or brutal, I was prevailed on to divide the parts. The fcro- tum, integuments in the groin, and hernial fac, were completely and truly mortified the portion of inteftine, which certainly was not lefs than three inches, was in the fameftate, funk, empty, (having burft) and as black as a coal j the offence was terrible, but the man fuffered no pain, as the parts were totally void ©f fenfation. I con-ON RUPTURES. 345 I contented myfelf with merely dividing the fcrotum and hernial fac, and left the rot- ten inteftine as it was, lying in the groin on the outfide of the ring, concluding that a very mort fpace of time would determine the poor. man's fate, and that not favourably. The gentlemen whom I had met continued to at- tend, and to take care of him : the mortified parts caff, off; he difcharged his faeces through his wound for fome time, but that, in no great length of time, ceafed; and within the fpace of a month, I faw him in very good health, difcharging all his faeces per anum, and having only a fmall, clean, and healing fore, where his wound had been. How the faeces paffed from the ileum to the colon, after the mortified parts were thrown off, I am, considering the fize of the portion of gut, really at a lofs to account for; but very fure I am, that if the advice given by all writers, in thefe cafes, to cut off the piece of mortified inteftine, and faften the found part to the upper part of the wound, had been followed, the man would have pafled the remainder of his life in a much more unT pleafant manner. HERNIA i346 OBSERVATIONS HERNIA VESICAE URINARIA. A hernia formed by a protrufion of a portion of the urinary bladder through the opening in the abdominal mufcle into the groin or fcrotum, is a difeafe, fometimes, but not very frequently met with. It has been taken notice of by many writers of character, and has been accurately de- fcribed by Monf. Verdier, and Mr. Samuel Sharpe. Whoever is acquainted with the ilructure and difpofition of the peritoneum, without which knowledge he cannot underftand a hernia at all, knows that the bladder is only covered in part by that membrane, and that its inferior and lateral parts lie on the outride of it, in the tela cellulofa. That portion of the bladder which is liable to this protrufion, is not covered by the peri- toneum j confequently, when it is thrufl forth, it does not carry with it any part of the faid membrane; and therefore cannot have what is called a hernialfac; in which it differs from every other kind of hernia. TheON RUPTURES, 347 The two following are the only cafes I ever met with. CASE XXIL A poor fellow, who worked with a far- mer at Illington, came to St. Bartholomew's with a large, troublefome fwelling in his fcrotum. The tumor was large, tenfe, of a pyriform figure, palpably contained a fluid, gave no pain but from its weight when full, and had every mark of a hydrocele, except that the tefticle was perfectly diftinguifliable at its bottom. While I was hefitating concerning this circumftance, the man faid, Sir, I can get rid of it all by pitting, but it fills again in a few hours, efpecially if I drink. Upon my feeming to difbelieve what he faid, he took up his fcrotum, and fqueezing it together with, fome violence, difcharged the whole by the urethra. CASE XXIII. A boy, about fix years old, was feized With an acute pain about the region of the pubes;348 OBSERVATIONS pubes j it lafted near an hour and half, and fuddenly ceafing, he became perfectly eafy. During the time his pain lafted he could not difcharge a drop of water, though he endea- voured fo to do, but as it ceafed he phTed freely. In a few days after, a fmall tumor was difcovered about the fizeof a pea, in the fpermatic procefs, juft below the groin: it gave the child no pain, and therefore no no- tice was taken of it. By flow degrees it de- fended lower and lower, and as it defcended, it feemed to increafe in fize : when it had got to the upper part of the fcrotum, it was obferved to be confiderably enlarged; and the boy now found himfelf more frequently urged to make water, but without pain or difficulty. He was examined by a practi- tioner or two in his neighbourhood, who, not knowing what to make of it, advifed the let- ting it alone. Within the fpace of five years it got down to the bottom of the fcrotum, and when it was there it was obferved to in- creafe much falter than it had done before. The boy was at a confi4erable diftance from London, and it ill-fuited his friends to fend him thither, fo that another year patted be- fore he was fent up j which was done at the 3 agcON RUPTURES. 349 age of thirteen, the fwelling being now trou- blefome upon any motion.' Some, who firjft faw him, deemed it a fcirrhous tefticle, and advifed caftration, to which the friends of the boy would not fubmit. From the moft careful examination I could make, I could not think it was formed by the tefticle but on the other hand, I could not find any tefticle on that fide. The fwelling was perfectly equal in its furface, was indolent, had a ftony, incom- preffible kind of hardnefs, was troublefome from its weight, but never occafioned pain in the back or loins: it had all the appear- ance of being dependant from the fpermatic procefs; which procefs, though it had nei- ther the feel, nor the appearance of being difeafed, yet was larger than it fhould be, and than that on the other fide. The perfect equality of the tumor, its being perfectly free from pain, even when prefTed hard, and its- extreme incompreffibility, led me to believe it was not the tefticle; but this was merely negative information. The trouble it now gave the boy, and its difpofition to increafe, feemed to authorife its removal ; and the flats both356 OBSERVATIONS both of the part and of the child were n<5 prohibitions^ I therefore propofed and un- dertook it. 1 made an incifion through the fkin and cellular membrane, the whole length of the procefs and fcrctum, by means of which I difcovered a firm, white, membran- ous bag, or cyft, connected loofely with the cellular membrane in the fame manner as a hernial fac. I diffeded all the anterior part of this bag, quite clean, and found that, as I traced it upward, it became narrower, andfeemed to proceed from the upper part of the groin. This determined me to try if I could not clear it from its pofterior connec- tion ; in doing which, I difcovered a tefticle which lay immediately behind the body form- ing the tumor, and was fmall, flat, and com- preffed. The diffeaion of this, and of the fper- matic chord from the bag and from its neck, which I was obliged to do in order to pre- ferve the tefticle, took up fome time, and gave me fome trouble; but when I had finifhed it, I found that the cyft was depen- dent from, and continuous with a membran- ous dud about the breadth of the largeft wheat-ftraw, or what it was more like to, a humanON RUPTURES. 35I human ureter, which paffed out from the ab- domen through the opening in the mufcle. When I had perfectly cleared this duel: from all connection with the fpermatic chord, I cut it off immediately above the tumor, and upon the divilion, there iffued forth about four ounces of a clear liquor, aud the mouth of the cyft, expanding itfelf, difclofed a ftone, exactly refembling what is found in the hu- man bladder. As there was not the lean: appearance of fluid, either in the bag or in its neck, before the divilion, its immediate efFufion, and the appearance of the ftone, induced me to be- lieve, that the cafe was a hernia cyftica. In order to be certain, I ftaid fome time; and when I thought that fome quantity of urine might have puffed from the kidnies, I defired the boy to try to make water : he did fo, and a large ftream of urine flowing through the wound, inftead of the urethra, put the matter out of all doubt. He was dreffed fuperfkially, had no one bad fymptom, though a portion of the blad- der was totally removed: his urine came through the wound in his groin for about a fortnight 3 but as that wound healed, it re- fumedOBSERVATIONS fumed its natural courfe, and the patient has remained free from complaint ever fince, ex- cept that the natural fize of his bladder being leffened by the extirpation of a part, he is obliged to difcharge his urine rather more frequently. CASE XXIV. An ovarian hernia. A healthy young woman about twenty* three was taken into St. Bartholomew's hof- pital on account of two fmall fwellings, one in each groin, which for fome months had been fo painful, that fhe could not do her work as a fervant. The tumors were perfectly free from in- flammation, were foft, unequal in their fur- face, very moveable, and lay juft on the out- fide of the tendinous opening in each of the oblique mufcles, through which they feemed to have paffed. The woman was in full health, large breafted, ftout, and menftruated regularly, had no obitrudion to the difcharge per anum, nor any complaint but what arofe from the uneafinefson ruptures. 353 uheafinefs rhefe tumors gave her, when (he jftooped or moved fo as to prefs them. She was the patient of Mr. Nourfe. He let her blood and purged her, and took allpoffible pains to return the parts through the openings through which they had clearly paffed out. He found all his attempts fruitlefs, as did Mr. Sain thill and myfelf; and the woman be- ing incapacitated from getting her bread, and defirous to fubmit to any thing for re- lief, it wis agreed to remove them, The fkin and membrana adipofa being di- vided, a fine membranous bag came into view, in which was a body fo exactly re- fembling a human ovarium, that it was im- poffible to take it for any thing elfe; a liga- ture was made on it, clofe to the tendon, and it was cut off. The fame operation was done on the other fide; and the appearance, both at the time of operating, and in the examination of the parts removed, were exactly the fame. She has enjoyed good health ever fince, but is become thinner and more apparently mufcular; her breafts, which were large, are gone; nor has me ever menftruated fince the operation, which is now fome years. Vol. III. a OBSERVATIONS1 A a 2 the Observations on the mortification OF THE TOES and FEET. T k e powers and virtues of the Peruvian bark are known to almod every practitioner in phyfic and furgery. Among the many cafes in which its merit is particularly and jullly celebrated, are the diflempers called gangrene and mortification; its general power of (lopping the one, and refilling the other, have made no inconfiderable addition to the fuccefs of the chirurgic art ; but flill there is a particular fpecies even of thefe, in which this noble medicine mod frequently fails: I mean that particular kind, which, beginning at the extremity of one or more of the fmall toes, does, in more or lefs time, pafs on to356 ON THE MORTIFICATION the foot and ancle, and fometimes to a part of the leg, and in fpite of all the aid of phyfic and furgery, raoft commonly deftroys the patient. It is very unlike to the mortification from inflammation, to that from external cold, from ligature, or bandage, or to that which proceeds from any known and vifible caufe, and this as well in its attack as in its procefs. In fome few kiftances it makes its appearance with little or no pain y but, in by much the majority of thefe cafes, the patients feel great uneafinefs through the whole foot and joint of the ancle, particularly in the night, even before thefe parts (hew any mark of diftemper, or before there is any other than a fmall difcoloured (pot on the end of one of the little toes. It generally makes its firft appearance on the infide, or at the extremity, of one of the fmaller toes, by a fmall, black, or bluilh fpot: from this fpot the cuticle is always found to be detached, and the ikin under it to be of a dark red colour. If the patient has lately cut his nails, or corn, it is moft frequently, though very unjuflly>OF THE TOES AND FEET. 357 unjuftly, fet to the account of fuch oper- ation. Its progrefs in different fubje&s, and un- der different circumftances, is different; in fome it is flow and long in palling from toe to toe, and from thence to the foot and ancle; in others its progrefs is rapid, and horridly painful: it generally begins on the infide of each fmall toe, before it is vifiblc either on its under or upper part; and when it makes its attack on the foot, the upper part of it firft (hews its diftempered ffate, by tumefaction, change of colour, and fome- times by vefication; but wherever it is, one of the firft marks of it is a feparation or de- tachment of the cuticle. Each fex is liable to it; but for one female in whom I have met with it, I think I may fay, that I have feen it in at leaft twenty males. I think alfo that I have much more often found it in the rich and voluptuous, than in the labouring poor; more often in great eaters, than free drink- ers. It frequently happens to perfons ad- vanced in life, but is by no means peculiar to old age. It is not, in general, preceded or accompanied by apparent diffempeiature A a 3 either358 ON THE MORTIFICATION either of the part, or of the habit. I do not know any particular kind of conftitution which is more liable to it than another; but as far as my obfervation goes, I think that I have moft frequently obferved it to attack thofe who have been fubject: to flying un- certain pains in their feet, which they have called gouty and but feldom in- thofe who have been accuflomed to have the gout regularly and fairly. It has, by fome, been fuppofed to arife from an ofTification of yefTels; but for this opinion I never could find any foundation but mere conjecture. The common method of treating this diftemper is, by fpirituous fomentations, cataplafms actually and potentially warm, by dreffings of the digeftive kind, as they are called, animated with warm, pungent oils and balfams, &c. and, internally, by the Peruvian bark. I wifh I could fay that this, which, with little alteration, has been the general prac- tice^ had been moft frequently, or even often fuccefsfnl; but I am, from long an4 repeated experience, obliged to fay, that i% lias not. I am fenfiblc that many of my readersOF THE TOES AND FEET.- 359 will be furprifed at my affirming, that the Peruvian bark will not flop a mortification, a diftemper in which, for fome years, it has been regarded as fpecifjc; but I muft beg not to be mifunderftood: I mean to con- fine my obfervation and my obje&ion to this particular fpecies of mortification, which I regard as being fui generis: and under this refrriclion I muft repeat, that I have feldom, if ever, feen the bark fuc- cefsful: in all other cafes, wherein it is ufed or recommended, no man has a, higher opi- nion of it; but in this i cannot give it a praife which it does not deferve. I believe I may venture to fay, that I have tried it as fairly, as fully, and as varioufly as any man has or can: J have given it in the largeft quantity, at the ihorteft intervals, and for the longeft pof- fible fpace; that is, as long as the patient's life would permit: I have given it by itfejf in deco&ion, extract, and fubftance 3 I have combined all thefe together; I have joined it with nitre, fal. abfynth. with fnake-rpot, with confect. cardiac, with volatile falts, and with muik, as different circumftances feem- ed to require, or admit: I have ufed it a?, A a 4 fomentatioij360 ON THE MORTIFICATION fomentation, as poultice, as dreffing; I have affifted it with every thing which has been ufually thought capable of procuring, or affifting digeftion; ftill the diftemper has continued its courfe, perhaps a little more flowly, but ftill it has ended in death. I am forry to rob one of our great me- dicines of any part of its fuppoled merit; but as on the one hand, its claim, in this inftance, is unjuft, and as on the other, I hope to add as much to the character of another, the res medica will be no fufferer. Some time ago, I had a patient labour- ing under this complaint, who, from an- tipathy, obftinacy, or ibme other caufe, could not be prevailed on to take bark in any form whatever. I made ufe of every argument, but to no purpofe : fomentation, poultice, and the ufual dreffings were ap- plied in the ufual manner; the difeafe ad- vanced ibme days more, fome days lefs, and at the end of a fortnight, the fmall toes were all completely mortified, the great one become blackifh, the foot much fwollen, altered in colour, and the difeafe feeming to advance with fuch hafty ftrides, that I fup- pofed a very few days would determine the event.OF THE TOES AND FEET. 361 event. The pain in the foot and ancle was lb great, and fo continual, as totally to de- prive the patient of fleep. On this account, and merely to procure fome remimon, I gave two grains of opium at night, which not having the defired effect, I repeated it in the morning. Finding, during the following day, fome advantage, I repeated the fame dofe night and morning, for three days; at the end of which time the patient became quite eafy, and the appearances on the foot and ancle were vifibly more favourable. En- couraged by this, I increafed the quantity of the medicine, giving one grain every three or four hours, taking care to watch its nar- cotic effect, and to keep the belly empty by glyfters. In nine days from the firll administration of the opium, all the tume- faction of the foot and ancle totally fubfided, the {kin recovered its natural colour, and all the mortified parts plainly began to feparate; in another week they were all loofe, and carting off, the matter was good, and the incarnation florid. During the whole of this time, I continued the ufe of the opium, varying its quantity as circumftances re- 7 quired,$bZ ON THE MORTIFICATION quired, but never gave lefs than three or four grains in twenty-four hours. When the floughs were all caft off, the bones feparated, and I had only a clean fore to drefs and heal, I gradually left of the medicine, I am very willing to acknowledge, that however well-pleafed I might be with the event of this cafe, yet I really regarded it as accidental; fo much fo, that having very foon after another opportunity, I did not care to truft to opium alone, but joined the bark with it. The event was equally fortunate. But although I had joined the cortex with the extraclum thebaicum, and did therefore attribute the fuccefs to the irunited powers, yet the effecT: was fo very unlike to what I had ever feen from the bark without opium, that I could not avoid ferioufly, and often reflecting on it, and determining to ufe it by itfelf, whenever another opportunity fhould offer. I did fo, and fucceeded in the fame happy manner, though under the very difagreeable circum- ftances of feventy years of age, a broken, diftempered conftitutian, and the difeafe making a hafty progrefs.OP THE TOES AND FEET. 363 To relate cafes which are nearly or at leaft materially fimilar, is of no ufe: I mall therefore only fay, that every opportuni- ty, which I have had fince of making the experiment, has ftill more and more convin- ced me of the great value and utility of this medicine, and of its power of refcuing from deftru&ion, perfons under this affliction. I cannot fay that it has never failed me: it certainly has; but then it has been under fuch circumftances, as I think would fairly account for the failure. I mould be exceedingly forry to be mif- underftood ; I mould be ftill more fo to mis- lead any body; and therefore I beg it may be noticed, that I do not propofe the extrac- tum thebaicum, in this cafe, as an univerfal, infallible fpecificj I know, from experience, that it is not; but as I alfo know, from re- peated experience, that it will, under proper management and direction, do more than any, or than all other medicines; and chat I have, by means of it faved fome lives, which, I am very fure, would, under the common, and molt approved method of treatment, without it, have364 ON THE MORTIFICATION have been loft, I.could not anfwer to myfelf the not communicating what I had obferved. If this was an experiment, in which the life or limb, or health of the patient, was in any degree endangered, or by which the per- fon, on whom it may be tried, could in any degree, be injured, I mould have withheld what I now publifh, until a greater length of time and more experience, had rendered it ftiii more abfolutely certain ; and I mould have thought myfelf ftri&ly vindicable in fo doing: but as this is a medicine, whofe ge- neral effects are well known, and which is at the fame time, fo capable of direction and management, that it is almoft impoflible for any perfon who deferves to be trufted with medicine at all, to do any material harm with it, I thought it would be wrong and unjuft to conceal what had occurred to me, left I might thereby deprive the afrlided of an amftance which, I verily believe, is not to be obtained from any other quarter, In fhort, from what I have feen and done I am perfectly convinced that, by its means, and by its means folely, I have faved lives which, without it, muft have been loft.OF THE TOES AND FEET* 365 If it preferves a few of thofe, who are fo unfortunate to labour under this nafty, pain*- ful, lingering, and deftru&ive diforder, to which we are all lioble, and which has hi- therto, moft frequently foiled all attempts of art, I fhall be fincerely glad to have contri- buted to fo good an end: if it mould prove in other hands as fuccefsful as it has with me, I mail be ftill more fo; but on the other hand, if after feveral times giving me reafon to believe, and hope that it would prove an inftrumentfor the prefervation of many, it mould, upon more repeated trial, be found to fail, I mail be forry for the event, but fhall ftill think, that I did right in commu- nicating what I had feen, and thereby endea- vouring to be ufeful to mankind. ' Hoc opus, hoc ftudium, parviproperemus et ampls, Si patriae volumus, fi nobis vivere cari. If I am right in my conjecture concerning this hazardous and deftructive malady; and if the method which I have propofed and pra&ifed, mould prove as fuccefsful in the hands of others, as it has in mine, I can- not help thinking, that the external or chirurgic treatment of the diforder might be amended j366 ON THE MORTIFICATIONS amended; that is, might be made to coin- cide more than it does at prefent with fuch loothing kind of plan; Since I have had reafon to embrace this opinion, and to act in conformity to it, I have found more advantage from frequently foaking the foot and ancle in warm milk; than from any fpirituous, or aromatic fomen- tations whatever; that is, I have found the one more capable of alleviating the pain, which fuch patients almofl: always feel, than the other; which circumftance I regard as a very material one^ Pain is always an evil* but, in this particular cafe I look upon it as being Angularly fo. Whatever heats, irritates, ftimulates, or gives uneannefs, appears to me always to increafe the diforder, and to add to the rapidity of its progrefs; and, on the contrary, I have always found that whatever tended merely to calm, to appeafe, and to relax, at leaft retarded the mifchief, if it did no more. The whole plan of the chirurgic treat- ment of this difeafe is founded on a general idea of warming, invigorating, ftimulating, and refitting putrefaction; and the means generally made ufe of are very proper forOF THE TOES AND FEET. 367 fiich purpofe: but I muft own that I think the purpofe, or intention, to be improper. Upon this principle, the old theriaca Lon- dinenfis, and the prefent cataplafrna e Cy- mino, have been, and ftill are, fo freely ufed on this occanon. A compofition of this kind, if it does any thing, muft heat and ftimulate, and it is by heating and ftimulating the Ikin, to which it is applied, that it fo frequently does that mifchief which I am confident it often does, though fuch mifchief is fet to the account of the nature of the diforder. Cafes exactly fimilar, in all circumftances, are not to be met with every day, but I am from ex- perience convinced, that of two, as nearly fimilar as may be, in point of pain, if the one be treated in the ufual manner, with a warm, Simulating cataplafm, and the other only with a poultice made of the fine farina ieminis lini, in boiling milk or water, mixed with ung. fambuc. or frem butter, that the pain, and the progrefs of the diftemper, will be much greater and quicker in the former than in the latter. When the black or mortified fpot has fairly made its appearance on one or more of the toes, it is the general practice to ,fcarify or cut368 ON THE MORTIFICATION cut into fuch altered part with the point of a knife or lancet. If this incifion be mads merely to learn whether the part be morti- fied or not, it is altogether unnecefTary, the detachment of the cuticle, and the colour of the fkin, render that a decided point: if it be not made quite through the efchar, it can ferve no purpofe at all j if it be made quite through, as there is no confined fluid to give difcharge to, it can only ferve to convey fuch medicines as may be applied for the purpofe of procuring digeftion to parts capable of feeling their influence, and on this account they are fuppofed to be beneficial, and there- fore right. When the upper part of the foot begins to part with its cuticle and to change colour, it is a practice with many to fcarify imme- diately i here, as in the preceding inftance, if the fcarifications be too fuperficial, they mtift be ufelefs; if they be fo deep, as to caufe a flight haemorrhage, and to reach the parts which have not yet loft their fenfibility, they muft do what indeed they are generally in- tended to do, that is, give the medicines, which (hall be applied, an opportunity of acting on fuch parts.\ OF THE TOES AND FEET. Q>&9 The medicines moft frequently made ufe of for this purpofe are, like the theriaca, chofen for this fuppofed activity ; and confift of the warm, pungent oils andbalfams, whofe action muft neceffarily be to ftimulate and ir- ' ritate: from thefe qualities they mod fre- quently excite pain, which, according to my idea of the difeafe, is diametrically oppofife to the proper curative intention; and this I am convinced of from repeated experience. The dreffings cannot confift of materials which are too foft and lenient; nor are any fcarifitations neceffary for their application. But I would go farther and fay, that fcari- ftcations are not only ufelels, but, in my opi- nion, prejudicial, by exciting pain, the great and chiefly to be dreaded evil in this com- plaint. The poultice mould be alfo foft, fmooth, and unirritating; its intention mould be merely to foften and relax; it mould com- prehend the whole foot, ancle, and part of the leg j and mould always be fo moiif, or greafy as not to be likely to become at aildry or hardj between one dreffing and another. I will trouble the reader with only one re- mark more. I When the toes are, to all appearance, per- fcdly • mortified, and feem fo loofe as to be Vol. III. r k „„ ,; n D capable370 ON THE MORTIFICATION, &C. capable of being eafily taken away, it is, in general, thought right to remove them. However rotten and loofe they may feari to be, or really are, yet while they hold on, they hold by fomething which is ftill endued with fenfation, as may always be known, if they be bent back or twifted with any degree of violence. I will not enter into a difpute about the fenfibility or infenfibility of ligaments, nor undertake to determine whether they be liga- ments or any other kind of parts which ftill maintain the connection of the toes with their own refpedtive joints, or with the me- tatarfal bones; it is fumcient for me to know, and to inform the young practitioner, • that however looie they may feem, jetif they be violently [twifted off, or the parts, by which they hang, be divided, a very confiderable degree of pain will , moft commonly attend fuch operation, which therefore had much better be avoided ; and that I have feen this very pain, thus produced, bring on frefh naif- chief, and that of the gangrenous kind. If the patient does well, thefe parts will certainly drop off: if he does not, no good can rife from removing them. REMARKSREMARKS ON THE NECESSITY AND PROPRIETY OF THE OPERATION of AMPUTATION, IN CERTAIN CASES, AND UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.R E M ARK S ON THE OPERATION of AMPUTATION. No man, however flightly acquainted with the hiftory of Surgery, can have the fmalleft doubt of the fuperiority. which its prefent ftat.e juftly claims over that of our predeceffors, efpecially over that of our more remote ones. The furgery of the laft century, and even of fome part of this, was coarfe and cruel in its operative part, painful and tedious in what is,generally called the curative. A multiplicity of heavy unmanageable inftru- ments characlerifed the former, and a va- riety of irritating applications the latter. By means of the one, many operations were rendered much more terrible to bear, as well as more hazardous in the event, than they ought to have beenj while long fufferance, B b 3 and374- REMARKS ON and tedious confinement, became the necef- fary confequences of the ufe of the other. To fimplify the art has been the aim of all the beft practitioners of later times, and to this they owe both their fuccefs, and their reputation j by this they have reduced our inftruments to a fmall number, and have rendered thofe which are now ufed much more manageable; upon the fame plan, they have difcharged a farrago of external ap- plications, the majority of which were either ufelefs, or mifchievous; a profecution of the fame method will, I make no doubt, produce greater improvements, but ftill oper- ations will for ever remain unavoidable in particular circumftances, and fome difeafes will ftill fometimes require applications which muft produce uneafinefs: to render thefe as feldom necelfary, and as little pain- ful as poffible, mould be the bufinefs of every practitioner, and this is all that art can do, or that mould be expected from it. The boaft of univerfaj fpecifics, of remedies in- fallibly preventative of difeafes, and of means whereby chirurgical operations may be rendered totally unnecefTary, is the lan- guage of quackery, and not of fcience. TheAMPUTATION. 375 The amputation of a limb is an operation terrible to bear, horrid to fee, and rauft leave the perfon on whom it has been per- formed in a mutilated imperfect, ftate ; but ftill it is one of thofe which becomes, in certain circumftances, abfolutely and in- difpenfably neceflary. To thofe who are well acquainted with furgery, it muft appear needlefs to have faid this; they well know the truth of it: but as they who have not had fufficient oppor- tunity of obtaining practical information, may be mifled by a contrary dodrine when boldly advanced; and as they who are really well informed may* under certain circum- ftances, be deterred from acting up to their knowledge, I have thought that I fliould not abfolutely mifpend my time, nor do mankind a dhTervice, if I took this oppor- tunity of giving the fubjecl a little con- fideration. I am the more inclined to do this for three reafons: ift. Becaufe I am fatisfied that the pro- priety of amputations in certain cafes, ftands upon as fixed and as rational principles as any part of furgery. B b 4 a'd.37^ REMARKS ON 2d. Becaufe a contrary dodlrine Las within a few years been boldly, and induf- trioufly propagated, not without fome very indecent,. as well as untrue reflections, on the profeffion in general, and on thofe who have the care of hofpitals in particular: and 3dly. Becaufe I am convinced that fuch doctrine has been employed to the prejudice of mankind, by covering Ignorance and Timidity, and alfo for ferving the bafe pur- pofe of malevolence. " Ne ocadifTe nifi fervaflet," \s under certain limitations a very juft and prudent maxim, but taken at large may be productive of much mifchief. Mankind are rather too apt to form their opinion from events only; fuccefs with many conftitutes propriety, ancj the failure of it is often very unjuftly fet rq the account of mifconducl, or of want of knowledge. A young practitioner at a dif- tance from afhftance, and thereby deprived of that fupport, may be afraid to put his character to hazard, by acting in fuch man- ner as although it - might juftly entitle him to fuccefs, yet cannot command it. He may underftand his art, but art is not in- fallible. He may be a very excellent furgeon, andAMPUTATION. 377 and yet be afraid to encounter the prejudices of fome, or the malevolence of others. A few years ago a book was publifhed. profelTedly to oppofe and. condemn the prac- tice of amputation in all cafes whatever, and almoft without exception. The book was written by a Mr. Bilguer, a furgeon in the Pruffian fervice 5 Mr. Tilfot wrote fome Annotations on it, and a Preface, announce- ing its great and wonderful merit and utility; and the whole was tranflated into Englifh, and dedicated to Sir John Pringle. Both the book and the Annotations contain fome very extraordinary doctrines and affertions, neither of which it is my intention to Criticife in this place. They who read the work, and underftand the fubject, will, I verily believe, have but one opinion. The writer, as well as the annotator, may have meant well ; but certain I am, if their opi- nions were generally followed, mankind would be great fufTerers. The particular cafes in which the operation of amputation is totally and abfolutely unneceflary, and therefore wrong, are in his own words, or at leaft in thofe of his tranflator, as follows : " lit, 537§ REMARKS ON " i ft. A mortification which fpreads " until it reaches the bone. " 2(i]y. Any limb fo greatly hurt, whe- " ther by fracture or dilaceration, that there " is room to dread the moft fatal confe- " quences. " 3dly. A violent contufion of the foft " parts, which has at the fame time fhat- ic tered the bones. " 4thly. Wounds of the larger veflels, <4 which convey blood into the limb, either <c as the only way of flopping the baemor- ** rhage, or through apprehenlion it mould «' perifh for want of nourifhment. " 5thly. An incurable caries of the " bone." In the firft of thefe the art of furgery has very little to do, except the mere fawing the bones through ; nature, if the patient lives, will in general do all the reft, and will re- move the limb whether the furgeon may choofe it or not. In the 2d, 3d, and 4th, what the writer has afferted is fo repug- nant to the univerfal opinion of all the ableft and beft praditioners, to common fenfe, and to conftant experience, and his doarine would, if followed, be produaiveAMPUTATION. 379 of fo much mifchief to mankind, that I cannot help bearing my teftimony againft it. But as flat contradictions have no more authority than pofitive affertions, I take tin's opportunity of giving my reafons for a different opinion, at large. The cafes in which, under certain cir~ cumfiancesy amputation may become neceflary for the prefervation of the patient's life, are feveral, but I will confine myfelf to four. Thefe are : i. A compound fracture. 2. Some kind of fcrophulous joints. 3. Some kind of aneurifms. 4. A caries of the whole fubftance of the bone or bones compofing a limb. In all, and each of which, it may, and does fometimes fo happen, that the patient's life can be only preferved by the lofs of his limb. This doctrine is very oppofite to that of the book juft cited, but if it be confonant to truth and experience, it matters not from whom it may differ. In compound fractures, there are three points of time, in which the operation of amputation may become neceffary. The firft of thefe is immediately, or as foon as may be after the receipt of the injury. The fecond380 REMARKS ON the. fecond is, when the bones continue for a great length of time without any difpofition to unite, and the difcharge from the wound has been fo long and is fo large, that the patient's ftrength fails, and general fymp- toms foreboding diffolution come on; and the third is, when a mortification mail have taken fuch complete pofTefiion of the foft parts of the inferior part of the limb, quite down to the bone, that upon feparation of fuch parts, the bone or bones fhall be left bare in the inter-fpace. The firft and fecond of thefe are matters of very ferious consideration. The third hardly requires any. When a compound fracture is caufed by the pafTage of a very heavy body over a limb, fuch, for inftance, as the; broad w'heel of a waggon, or a loaded cart, or by the fall of a very ponderous body on it, or by a cannon-mot, or by any other means fo vio- lent as to break the bones into many frag- ments, and fo to tear, bruife and wound the foft parts, that there fliall be good reafon to fear that there will not be veffels fufficient to carry on the circulation with the parts below the fracture, it becomes a Matter ofAMPUTATION. 381 0, the moft. ferious confideration, whether an attempt to fave fuch perfon's limb, will not be the occafion of the lofs of his life: this confideration muft be before any de- gree of inflammation has feized the part, and therefore muft be immediately after the accident. When inflammation, irritation, and ten- fion have taken place, and when the air ad- mitted freely into the tela cellulofa has be- gun to exert its pernicious influence, it is' too late : an operation then, inftead of being beneficial, would prove deftruclive. The neceffity of immediate, or very early decifion in this cafe, arifing from the cir- cumftances already mentioned, make this a very delicate part of practice: for however prefling the cafe may feem to the furgeon to be, it will not in general appear in the fame light to the patient, to the relations, or to by-ftanders; they will be inclined to regard the proportion as arifing from igno- rance how to treat the cafe properly, or from an inclination to fave trouble, or per- haps from a ftill worfe motive, a defire to operate j and it will often require more firmnefs on the part of the practitioner, and moreREMARKS ON more refignation and confidence on the part of the patient, than is generally met with, to fubmit to fuch a fevere operation, in fuch a feeming hurry, and upon fo little apparent deliberation; and yet it often hap- pens, that the fufFering this point of time to pafs, decides the patient's fate. I muft repeat, that this neceflity of early decifion, arifes from the very juft dread of the ill effects of a greatly obftructed circulation, owing to a large destruction of veffels; thefe added to thofe arifing from pain, irritation, and the admiffion of air, often produce a high fever, and intenfe inflammation, end- ing, and that very fhortly, in gangrene, mortification and death. That this is no exaggeration, melancholy and frequent ex- perience evinces, even in thofe whofe con- stitutions previous to the accident were in good order; but much more in thofe, who had been heated by violent exercife, cr la- bour, or liquor, who have led very debauch- ed and intemperate lives, or who have habits naturally inflammable and irritable. This may be, and often is the cafe, when the fracture happens to the middle part of the- bones, at the greateft pofiible distance from theAMPUTATION. 383 the extremities; but is much more likely to happen, and indeed much more frequently is the cafe, when any of the large joints are concerned : the circumftances of broken bones in thefe parts, and of torn, bruifed, and wounded ligaments, to fay nothing of the ad- million of air into joints, are dreadful addi- tions to the hazard, and demand a fpeedy de- cifion, as they are productive of the worft confequences in the fhorteft fpace of time; and therefore, that in many of thefe cafes, a determination for or againft amputation, is really a determination for or againft the pati- ent's exiftence, is a truth of whifih I am as well fatisfied, as I am, or can be, of any truth what ever. That it would have been impoffible to have faved fome limbs which have been cut off, no man will pretend to fay; no man that knows any thing of the matter can fay it: but this does not at all alter the confider- ation, or render the practice injudicious or blameable, the queftion really (landing thus: Do not the majority of thofe whofe misfor- tune it is to get into the juft-mentioned ha- zardous circumftances, and on whom the oper- ation of amputation is not performed, perifh, and that by means of their wounds ? Or, to384 REMARKS Otf to put the fame queftion into other word?* have not many lives been preferved by means of amputation, which from the fame circum- ftances would otherwife moft probably have been loft?—It is not for me, efpecially after what I have faid, to determine it: it is not indeed for any one man to do it; I therefore appeal to all the beft practitioners, to thofe who have feen the moft of thefe accidents> for the truth of the aflertion. When a judicious man fays that a limb ought to be removed, it is not to be fuppofed that he means to fay, that it is abfolutely im- poffible, at all events, that fuch limb can be faved, nor, that fuch patient muft infallibly die, if the operation be not performed 1 no,, he only means, that from repeated experience of himfelf, and others, in all times, it has been found, that the circumftances above- mentioned put the patient's life much more to hazard in an attempt to fave the limb, than the operation does in removing it ; and there- fore that humanity as well as judgment de- termine for the latter. On the other hand it muft be allowed, that from fome of the worft of thefe cafes, fome have had the good for- tune to efcape j but efcapes they fo truly are, . . thatAMPUTATION. 3§5 that I make no fcruple to affirm, that in cer- tain cafes and circumftances a determination hot to amputate, is 2 determination much more unfavourable and hazardous to the pa- tient, than that for amputation can be. It is, I think, impoffible for any perfon who has either fenfe or candour, fo to mif- confrru-e what I have faid, as to imagine that I would recommend the amputation of the majority of limbs which have fufFered a com- pound fracture; fuch conduct would be as injudicious as it would be cruel:—My mean- ing is, that the operation fhould be limited and confined to certain cafes and circum- ftances, already mentioned, and that under them it is not only proper, but neceffary. PrefTing and urgent as the ftate of a com- pound fracture may be at this firft point of time, ftill it will be a matter of choice whe- ther the limb mall be removed or not; very ferious deliberation may be required, added to all the judgment and experience of the moft able practitioner, to determine what may be moft for, the patient's fafety: but at the fecond period which I have mentioned, the operation ceafes to be a matter of choice, Vol. III. C c it306 REMARKS Otf it tnuft be fabmitted to, or the patient rnuft die. The moft unpromifing appearances at firft do not neceffarily or coriftantly end unfor- tunately. Every body converfant with bu- Rntfs of this kind, knows, that fometimes, af- ter the .oft threatening firft fymptoms, af- ter confiderable length of time, great dis- charges of matter, and large exfoliation of bone, it happens, that notwithstanding all thefe difficulties and difcouragements, fuecefs fhall ultimately be obtained, and the patient fhall recover his health and the ufe of his limb. But it is alfo as well known, that after the moft judicious treatment through every ftage of the difeafe; after the united efforts of phyfic and furgery, it fometimes happens, that the fore, inftead of granulating kindly, and contracting daily to a fmaller fize, fhall remain as large as at firft, with a tawny, fpongy furface, difcharging a large quantity of thin fanies, inftead of a fmall one of good matter: that the fraftured ends of the bones, inftead of tending to exfoliate, or to unite, will remain as perfeftly looie and difunited as at firft, while the patient fhall lofe his fleep,AMPUTATION. 307 fleep, his appetite, and his ftrength, a fymp- tomatic fever of the hectical kind, with a quick, fmall, hard pulfe, profufe fweats, and colliquative purgings, contributing at the fame time to bring him to the brink of the grave, notwithstanding every kind of affift- ance. In thefe circumftances, which are by no means uncommon, if amputation be not performed, I fhould be glad to be informed what elfe can refcue the patient from de- ftru&ion. Let it not, by way of anfwer, be faid, that a more generous plan of diet fhould be pre- ferred: that bark, cordials, anodynes, af- tringents, 6cc. fhould be taken, becaufe I fhould be very forry to have it fuppofed that I was either fo unknowing or fo brutal as to think of amputation, before every thing of this kind had been fairly and fully tried, and found ineffectual. I confefs that I know of nothing but the operation which can be at- tempted; and when, inftead of this, 1 hear people talk of fpecific balfams, particular fo- mentations, &c. I can only be forry to find that they are fo weak, or fo wicked. I might in this place mention a cafe which I have twice feen, which is, that in a com- C c 2 pound388 REMARKS ON pound fracture, which has got well through the firft or inflammatory ftate, the bones, inftead on the one hand of exfoliating, or uniting, or on the other, of remaining in- tirely difunited, (hall (in particular conftitu- tions) become thoroughly diftempered and enlarged through their whole fubftance, forming fuch a kind of caries as nothing but amputation can cure. The third and laft period which I menti- oned regarding compound fractures, and re<- quiring amputation, is indeed a matter which does not require much confideration. Every practitioner knows that fometimes, too often indeed, it happens that the inflam- mation confequent upon the injury, inftead of producing abfcefs and fuppuration, tends to gangrene and mortification; the progrefs of which is often fo rapid, as to deftroy the patient in a very fhort fpace of time, confti- tuting that very fort of cafe in which am- putation mould .have been immediately per- formed. But it alfo fometimes happens, that even this dreadful and very threatening ma- lady is by the help of art, put a flop to, but not until it has totally deftroyed all the fur- rounding mufcles, tendons, and membranes, quiteAMPUTATION. 389 quite down to the bone, which upon the ieparation of the mortified parts, is left quite bare, and all circulation between the parts above and thofe below is, by this, totally cut off. If it mould be faid, that merely faw- ing the bare bones cannot be called am- putating, I will not difpute about the pro- priety of the phrafe • but only beg leave to, obferve, that call the operation by what name you pleafe, the patient lofes his limb. The cafe is exactly the fame, when a mortification, from what ever caufe, has feized the lower part of a limb, and pro- duced the fame efivcl:.—This is the very cafe which Mr. Bilguer has mentioned, of mor- tification feizing all the parts down to the bone : let the caufe of the mortification be what it may, if the effecl be the deftruclion of all the foft parts down to the bone or bones, either the furgeon muft faw them, or they muh: be left to feparate; in either cafe the patient lofes his limb. Scrophulous joints, with enlarged carious bones, and diftempered ligaments, make a fecond kind of cafe, in which I have faid that amputation may ' become abfolutely neceilary. C c 3 There39° Remarks on There is one circumftance attending this kind of complaint, which often renders it particularly unpleafant, which is, that the fubjects are moil: frequently young children, or at leaft are at fo early an age, as to be incapable of determining for themfelves, which inflicts a very diftreffing tafk on their neareft relations. The common people call thefe, white fwellings; a term not yery unapt, becaufe it conveys an idea of one mark of the dis- temper, which is, that notwithstanding the increafe of fize in the joint, the fkin is not inflamed, but retains its natural colour. An hiftory of this kind of difeafe is a thing very much wanted, and I much wifh that fome man who has leifure and capacity, and who has feen bufinefs, would undertake it. If I was pofTefTed of the requifite know- ledge, it would carry me too far from my prefent purpofe, which is only to prove that when it affects the joints in a certain man- ner, and to a certain degree, that then the mifchief which it caufes is fuch, that no- thing but the removal of the joint can remedy. Whoever has had opportunity of feeing muchAMPUTATION. 39I much of this difeafe, muft know, that all the efforts of phyfic and forgery, by inter- nal as well as external means, do often prove abfolutely ineffectual, not only to cure, but even to retard the progrefs of this moft terrible malady. I fhould be forry to be mifunderftood: I do not mean to fay that this is always, or even moft commonly the cafe, nor that fcrophulous joints are not fometimes re- lieved, and even cured by means of art; I fincerely wifh that they were more fre- quently, and that we were poffeffed of more effectual remedies for this purpofe than we are, or at leaft that I am acquainted with; but to the great misfortune of fcrophulous people, every man converfant with bufinefs knows, that the difeafe often begins in the very inmoft receffes of the cellular texture of the heads of the bones forming the larger articulations, foch as the hip, knee, ancle, and elbow; that the bones fo affected fpread gradually, and become enlarged to a very confiderable degree, and carious through- out, fometimes with great pain and fymp- tomatic fever, fometimes with very little of either, at leaft in the beginning: that the C c 4 . cartilages,392 REMARKS ON cartilages covering the ends of thefe bones, and defigned for the mobility of the joints, are totally deftroyed : that the epiphyfes in many young fubjeds are either partially or totally feparated from the faid bones: that the ligaments of the joints are fo thickened and fpoiled by the diftemper, as to lofe all natural appearance, .and become quite unfit for all the purpofes for which they were in- tended: that the parts appointed for the fecretiori of the fynovia, become diftempered in like manner; that all thefe together furnifh a large quantity of linking fanious matter, which is difcharged either through artificial openings made for the purpofe, or by fmall ones made by erofions, and that thefe openings commonly lead to bones which are rotten through their whole tex- ture; that bad as this is, it is not all, nor the worft: for when the difeafe is got into this ftate, the conftant pain, the irritation, and the abforption of poifon from all thefe dif- tempered parts, bring on a fever of the truly hectical kind, attended with the moft de- ftructive general fymptoms, fuch as total lofs of appetite, reft, and ftrength, profufe night fvveats, and as profufe purgings, which foilAMPUTATION. ' 3? 3 foil all the efforts of medicine, and bring the patient to the brink of deftrudion. That this is no exaggeration is known to, every body. Now, fuppofing that the art of furgery, or, what is by many fuppofed to be more capable, the art of quackery, could exfoliate all the bones of a large joint, and reftore the internal and medullary parts of it to a found ftate; fuppofing either of them capa- ble of giving the ligamentous parts a new and healthy ftruclure, and of re-uniting the loofened epiphyfes; I fay, fuppofing, againft all fenfe and experience, all this to be prac- ticable, yet it muft require a length of time to accomplifh, which fuch patientxs ftate will not admit. The ftate which I have defcribed is no uncommon one, neither are the circum- ftances at all exaggerated but it is the ftate of a perfon haftening rapidly to deftruclion, who has no time to lofe, and whofe life can be preferved by the removal of the limb only. That unlefs the operation be performed, fuch patient will perifh, is an inconteftible truth; and it is as inconteftibly true, that numbers394 REMARKS ON numbers in the fame circumftances have, by Submitting" to the operation, recovered firm and vigorous health, which they have enjoyed for many years, or even during a long life; and therefore, bad as this ftate of things is, and terrible as it muft be to lofe a limb, yet if it be thought preferable to part- ing with life, it is a confolation to have the malady fall on a part where amputation can be performed, fuch as the knee, ancle, or wrift, rather than on the hip, where it can- not, or on the parts about the lumbal vertebrae, there caufing thofe moft dread- ful and moft deftructive diftempers, known* by a M. Bilguer, and M. Tiffbt, are the only people whom I have met with, or heard of, in the profefljon, who fpeak of an amputation in the joint of the hip, as an advifable thing, or as being preferable to the fame operation in the thigh: the do&rine is fo new, and fo uncommon, that I mutt beg leave to cite the whole paflage in their own words, left my reader sliould not give me credit, <£ The difficulty attending amputation in the upper parts of " the thigh is fo conffderable, that furgeons rather chufe to " abandon to their fate thofe wounded men, where it appears " neceflary, than to undertake it; and I own I am of the fame tc opinion with them: If, neverthelefs, a cafe occurred, wherein *' the death of the patient was certain, if amputation was not " performed, I would even prefer taking oft" the limb at the ie articulation rathsr than at any other f lace" The reafpn which M, Bilguer gives for this is as extraordi- nary:AMPUTATION. 395 by the names of the Lumbal and Pfoas Abfcefs, nary: " for although it be extremely difficult, yet it prevents » the inconveniences and accidents which a flump might oc- " calion." M. Bilguer's annotator feems determined not to be behind hand with his author, part of his note on the preceding paffage being as follows —"lam of opinion that if any one had the " misfortune of being reduced to the neceflity of chafing be- ** tween amputation at the upper part of the thigh, or at the " articulation itfelf, one reafon for preferring the latter would "ftbe, the greater eafe there is in Hopping the haemorrhage of « the crural artery."—Very extraordinary doclrine this ! That amputation in the joint of the hip is not an imprac- ticable operation (although it be a dreadful one) I very well know: I cannot fay that I have ever done it, but 1 have feen it done, and am now very fure I mall never do it unlefs it be on a dead body.—The parallel which is drawn between this oper- ation, and that in the joint of the moulder, will not hold—In the latter it fometimes happens, that the caries is confined to the head of the os humeri, and that the fcapula is perfectly found and unaffefted. In the cafe of a carious hip joint, this never is the facl; the acetabulum ifchii, and parts about, are always more or lefs in the fame Hate, or at lead in a diftempered one, and fo indeed moft frequently are the parts within the pel- vis—A circumftance this of the greateft confequence; for the power of performing the operation beyond the feat of the dif- cafe, and- confequently of totally removing all the diftempered parts, is the very decifive circumftance in favour of amputation every where but in the hips, were [to fay nothing of the hor- ridr.efs of the operation itfelf) the haemorrhage from a multi- plicity of veffels, fome of which art* of confiderable fize, and the immenfe difcharge which a fore of fuch dimenfions mull furnilh, the diftempered ftate of the parts, which cannot by the The39& REMARKS ON . The third kind of diforder which I men- tioned as fometimes producing the neceffity Qf amputation, was the aneurifm. That kind of dilatation of the arterial tube, which is called a true aneurifm, is fometimes found in the middle, fometimes in the upper part of the thigh, and fome- times in the ham. The general charafreriftic marks of this diltemper are, a circumfcribed tumor, fmall at its firft appearance, but gradually in- creafing, and for fome length of time having a pulfatory motion and feel exactly corre- fpondent with the patient's pulfe at the wrift; this pulfation arifmg from the motion of the blood from the heart through the artery, is very ealily feen and felt for fome length of time, but as the tumor becomes gradually larger, the pulfation in it becomes more and more obfcure to the touch, and in length of time, when either the artery is dilated to a very confiderabie fize, or has burft, and has fhed part of its contents, the motion be- comes in fome cafes fo obfcure as hardly to be felt at all, or at lead, not without very di- ligent attention. When it has got into this operation be removed, will render it ineffectual, bold and bloody as it mult be. ftateAMPUTATION. 397 ftate whether it be femoral or poplitean, the lower part of the limb becomes, by the preflure of the extravafated blood, and by the obftruction to the circulation through the dilated artery, considerably loaded, and fwollen, unfit for ufe or motion, and gene- rally very painful. This is the ftate, or very nearly the ftate, in which we moft frequently fee it, efpeci- ally among the labouring poor, who gene- rally neglect it until it renders them lame and incapable of following their employ- ment > and when it is got into this ftate, it requires immediate attention. In what manner is this difeafe, when got to this point, to be treated; or how is the cure of it to be attempted; for if fomething be not done, the limb will become mortified and the patient will perifli. If a man was to anfwer from theory, he would fay, that the fkin is to be divided, the extravafated blood to be cleared away, and the artery to be tied above and below the dilatation—in fhort, that what is called the operation for the aneurifm, is to be performed. Sorry I am to find myfelf obliged to fay, 5 that$9% REMARKS ON that as far as my obfervation and experience go, fuch operation, however judicioufly per- formed, will not be fuccefsful, that is, will not fave the patient's life. In both thefe aneurifms, the femoral and the poplitean, it mo ft frequently happens, that the artery is not only dilated and burft, but it is alfo diflempered fome way above the dilatation, particularly in the poplitean. This may very probably be one reafon why the ligature is in general fo unfuccefsful. The want of collateral branches of fufficient fize to carry on the circulation* is another very powerful impediment. Whether thefe may be allowed fufficient to fruflxate the attempt by the operation, I will not take upon me to fay; but certain I am, that it does not fucceed: I have tried it myfelf more than once or twice; I have feen it tried by others; but the event has always been fatal: exceffive pain, a high degree of fymptomatic fever, great tenfion of the whole limb, rapidly tending to gangrene, and ending in mortification both upwards ' and downwards, have deftroyed all thofe whom I have feen on whom the oper- ationAMPUTATION. 399 ation of tying the artery has been prac- tice!. Nor have I ever feen any other operation than that of amputation, which has pre- ferved the life of the patient. • To this an objection has been made by fome, which, if it was founded in facl, would be a very valid one. It has been faid, that the aneurifm in the thigh, or ham, is very feldom the only one which the patient la- bours under, and that he mo ft frequently has the fame kind of dilatation either of the aorta, or of fome of the larger veffels within the body* This is urged as a reafon againn: amputation in this difeafe; they who main- tain this opinion, very juftly obferving, that it cannot be of any ufe to cut off a patient's leg for a femoral, or a poplitean aneurifm, who will, in all probability, be deftroyed very, foon by the fame kind of difeafe in another part of him. If the datum was true, the inference would be juft; but it is not. When I fay that it is not true, I mean that it is not conftantly or neceffarily, or even generally fo, as I can from repeated experience affirm, having feveral times performed the oper- i ation46b Remarks on ation of amputation for both thefe, on people who have lived feveral years after, without any fymptoms of the fame kind of difeafe in any other part of them. Indeed, the determination for an operation when a poplitean aneurifm is arrived to the ftate which I have juft defcribed, is hardly to be called a matter of choice : it is -indeed a matter of abfolute neceflity. When the fwelling from the extravafated blood is be- come fo large, that the pulfatory feel of the artery is rendered very obfeure, the whole limb below is exceedingly loaded and fwollen, the return of the fluids, both by the veins and by the lymphatics, fo very dif- ficultly executed, that the patient gets little or no reft from the conftant pain, and if fome relief be not obtained, and that fpeedily, from the art of furgery, gangrene and mortification are the inevitable con^ fequences. The means of relief are two—and two only; the operation of amputation, and that of tying the artery above and below the difeafed part. The operator undoubtedly may make his choice between them, and follow the dic- tatesImputation. 401 tates of his own judgment, and his own. Experience but it mutt be worth his while to obferve, that for the fuccefs of the latter, a free circulation through all the inferior part of the limb, feems to be a very ne- cefiary circumftance, and that when the load, and prefiure, and obflruction, are be- come fo great as even to threaten gangrene and mortification, which is frequently the cafe, fuch free circulation is not much to be expected; but, on the contrary, all the evils arifing from a very obftructed one, and that through diftempered parts. There is another kind of complaint af- fecting the leg, immoveable (as far as my experience goes) by amputation only, which is one reafon why I mention it in this place, and to which I might add another reafon, which is, that it either derives its origin from a burften artery, or at leaft is always accompanied by it. I know no name to give it, or under what clafs to range it, but will defcribe it in the beft manner I can. It has its feat in the middle of the calf of the leg, or rather more toward its upper part, under the gaftrocnemius and foleus Vol. III. Dd mufcles:4°2 REMARKS OK mufcles: it begins by a fmall, hard, deep- feated fwelling, fometimes very painful, fometimes but little fo, and only hindering the patient's exercifes; it does not alter the natural colour of the fkin, at leaft until it has attained a confiderable fize; it enlarges gradually, does not foften as it enlarges, but continues through the greateft part of it incbmpreffibly hard, and when it is got to a large fize, it feems to contain a fluid which may he felt towards the bottom, or refting, as it were, on the back part of the bones. If an opening be made for the dis- charge of this fluid, it muft be made very deep, and through a ftrangely diftempered mafs. This fluid, is generally fmall in quantity, and confiffs of a fanies mixed with grumous blood: the difcharge of it pro- duces very little diminution of the tumor, and in a few cafes which I have feen, very high fymptoms of irritation and inflamma- tion come on, and advancing with great rapidity, and moft exquifite pain, very foon deftroy the patient, either by the fever, which is high and unremitting, or by a mortification of the whole leg. If amputation has not been performed, andAMPUTATION". 403 and the patient dies, after the tumor has been freely opened, the mortified and putrid ftate of the parts, prevents all fatisfa&ory examination ; but if the. limb was removed without any previous operation (and which, as far as my experience goes, is the only way of preferving the patient's life,) the arteria tibialis poftica will be found to be enlarged, diftempered, and burft; the muf- cles of the calf of the leg to have been con- verted into a ftrangely morbid mafs, and the pofterior part of both the tibia and the fibula more or lefs carious. The fourth kind of diftemper which I mentioned, as being fometimes productive of the neceffity of amputation, is a caries of the whole bone or bones forming a limb. By this I would be underftood to mean a caries poffeffing not only the furface of fuch bones, but the whole internal fubltance, and that from end to end. This I take to be the very individual cafe, in which both M. Bilguer, and M. Tilfot, have reprobated amputation, and which the former has men- tioned in his fifth article, under the title of Incurable Caries. The terms in which M. Bilguer has D d 2 chofeu404 .REMARKS ON chofen to exprefs himfelf, are rather unfor- tunate. After having mentioned three or four different diftempers, in which, in certain cafes, and under certain circumftances, am- putation has in general been thought ne- ceflary and right, and in which he is of a totally different opinion, he adds—An in- curable caries of the bones, which incurable caries, he fays, ought not to be amputated, becaufe there is a method of curing it. If this was merely a blunder in language and went no farther, it would be a matter of little importance; but it is a ferious piece of advice, delivered authoritatively, and by a writer who profeffes to correct the errors both of his predeceffors and cotemporaries, therefore it mould not be merely laughed ati and as it is an advice which is not built on fact, and which is fraught with mif- chief to mankind, it ought to be contra- dicted. That bones become carious from a variety of caufes, fuch as the ftruma, the lues ve- nerea, deep-feated impofthumation, pref- fure, &c. is well known to every body; and that fuch carious bones properly treated will 7 exfoliate,AMPUTATION. 405 exfoliate, and caft off their rotten parts, is as well known; but when in fome parti- cular habits, whether fcrophulous, fcorbu- tic, or cancerous, the whole fubftance of the bone becomes difeafed, not only on its fur-face, but through its whole internal me- dullary texture, and that from end to end, the fame means, be they what they may, will not avail. The ufe of the fcalper, the ralpatory, and the rugine, for the removal, of the difeafed furface of bones; of the trephine, for perforating into the internal texture of carious ones, and of what are called exfoliating applications, are as well known, I prefume, to every practitioner, as to M. Bilguer; but giving to thefe all their real or their fuppofed merit, ftill I affirm, and that from repeated experience, that there are cafes of caries, in which none of thefe will fucceed, though ever fo judicioufly ufed; that neither by thefe, nor by any other means, can an exfoliation be obtained; and that, unlefs the whole bone be removed by amputation, the patient will perim. The metaphor, or fimile, by which M. Bilguer endeavours to illuftrate his meaning, is fomewhat fmgular: he fays, " The real D d 3 " method4°6 REMARKS ON " method of doing fervice to bones confum-^ *i ed by caries, is like what happens to " boards joined together by nails: if you *' make them exceffively dry, the nails fall *' out of themfelves," 6cc. Now admitting, what I think will not be admitted, that this fimile conveys a juft and true idea of the manner in which the rotten parts of bones are feparated from the found, yet it necerTarily implies, that in thefe very bones there are fome found part or parts, from, which the rotten are to be dried off, in order to loofen the nails, and that the exigence of fuch found parts is the fine qua non of the cure. It may, perhaps, in anfwer to this be faid, that proper treatment, external and internal, may fo alter and correct even the carious part of a bone, as to render it capable of parting with the reft, and thereby of becom- ing found. I fay, admitting this, which is not in general admirable, yet it fometimes happens, that there is not time for fuch ex- periment, and that even in very young fub- je&s, the whole habit is, by the rotten bone, fo poifoned and fpoiled, that a heclic fever of the putrid kind, with all its horrid trainAMPUTATION. 40/ of horrid fymptoms, will, in fpite of all the efforts of phyfic and furgery, in fpite of bark and every other fpecific, in fpite of drying, burning, rafping, and boring, come on, and in a very fhort fpace of time deftroy the patient, unlefs refcued by amputation, which alone can remove a whole bone. I have as high an opinion of, and as juft a reverence for, both branches of the me- dical art, as any man; but I alfo know, that they are both in many inftances exceedingly unequal to our expectations, and very much limited. This is a difagreeable and an unfortunate truth, but Itill it is a truth, and fo much fo, that whoever profeffes a contrary opinion, is either much deceived himfelf, or inclined to deceive others. D d 4 REMARKSR E MAR ON THAT KIND OF P A L S Y OF THE LOWER LIMBS, WHICH IS FREQUENTLY FOUND TO ACCOMPANY A CURVATURE of the SPINE, AND IS SUPPOSED TO EE CAUSED BY IT, TOGETHER WITH ITS METHOD OF CURE. TO WHICH ARE ADDED, OBSERVATIONS on the NECESSITY and PROPRIETY .f AMPUTATION, IN CERTAIN CASES, AND UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES,T 9 Dr. JOHN LEWIS PETIT, ONE OF THE PHYSICIANS TO St. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL, T H S POLLOWI N O TRACTS ARE* INSCRIBED, SMALL MARK OF THE CHEAT ESTEEM AND REGARD OF THE AUTHOR.R E MARK S, &c, Among the various objc&s of Phyfic and Surgery, there are unfortunately fome, in which all the effqrts of both have hitherto been found abfolutely ineffectual, and which therefore have, always made a very difagree- able, and melancholy part of practice. To remove, or even to relieve any of the miferies to which mankind are liable, is a very fatisfactory employment; but to attend on a diftemper from its beginning, through a long and painful courfe, to its lafr, fatal period, without even the hope of being able to do any thing which mail be really fer- viceable, is, of all tafks, the mofr. unpleafant. In fuch cafes, any attempts, however hazardous, provided they were rational, would be juitifiable; certainly then, what- ever is not in itfelf dangerous, and affords the fmalleft ray of hope, ought to be em- braced, Some4*4 ON THE PALSY Some little time ago I gave to the public an account of the fuccefs which I had feen attend the free ufe of opium in mortifications of the toes and feet; particularly in thofe which began, or were attended with great pain. In that publication I merely related the facft, as it had happened under my own eye; I entered into no reafoning about it; nor did I give to the medicine any greater degree of credit than it appeared to me to deferve; I did not propofe it as a certain fpecific, or as a remedy whofe fuccefs was always and in- fallibly, or indeed even generally to be de- pended upon; I acknowledged, that I had feveral times feen it fail; but as I had alfo fe- veral times feen it fucceed, as I was very fure that no hazard could poffibly attend the ex- periment, and, as the beft and raoft experi- enced practitioners were obliged to allow, that they were not yet acquainted with any means whereby they were enabled to prevent the fatal effects of this moft horrid diftemper, or even to retard its daily and painful rava- ges, I thought it my duty to make known as early as I could, what I had feen, that others might make the fame trial, and thereby pro- .♦ pagateOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 415 pagate the benefit. Had any other means of relief been known to the faculty, and this had therefore appeared to me only in the light of another, or a preferable one, I mould cer- tainly have withheld my obfervations, until more time had verified and confirmed them, and thereby have proved the fuperior utility of what I had to propofe: but as the fact, was diredly the contrary, as opium was the ' only medicine which I had ever feen prove really, and effentially ferviceable; as it had fucceeded fo often, and to fuch a degree, as to fatisfy me that much good might be ex- pected from it; and as I was perfectly fure that not the leaft degree of hazard could at- tend the trial, I thought that fuch publica- tion, though early, could not be regarded in any other light than its true one; I mean that of a requeft to the profeffion in general to repeat the experiment; and that therefore it could not be juftly deemed premature. If upon repeated trial the fuccefs mould not be found equal to what I thought I had good reafon to expect, no harm could accrue to the patient; if it mould anfwer my expect- ation, it would ferve the moft valuable of all purpofes. Since4l6 ON THE PALSY Since that time I have had the fatisfadliort of having my opinion confirmed, not only by my own experience, but by the concur- rent teftimony of. feveral practitioners of eminence in different parts of the kingdom, who have done me the favour to communi- cate to me the refult of their experiments: the fnccefs of thefe, as I expected, from what I had feen, has not been conftant, but it has been fo frequent, as to make me very well pleafed at having furnifhed the hint. I iincerely wifh that the good effect was more general and more certain j but the preferva- tion of even a few, from a malady, found hitherto to have been inevitably deftructive to all, is a matter of fome importance, and furnifhes no unpleafing reflection. I now do the fame thing, relative to another diforder, which I then did with regard to the mortification. I publifli an account of the good-fuccefs which has attended a particular method of treating a difeafe, which has hither- to foiled all the efforts of art ; and as I do it now from the fame principle which I did then, viz. that of inducing others, by making the fame experiment, to propagate the benefit, I make no apology for another early publication. TheOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 417 The difeafe of which I mean to fpeak, is generally called a palfy; as it confifts in a total or partial abolition of the power of iifing, and fometimes of even moving the lower limbs, in confequencej as is generally fuppofed, of a curvature of fome part of the ipine. To this diftemper both fex'es; and all ages; are equally liable. If the patient be an in- fant, it becomes an objec~l of conftant, though unavailing diftrefs to its parents; if an adult, he is rendered perfectly helplefs to himfelf; and ufelefs to all others^ which, of all poffible ftates, is furely the very worft. When this difeafe attacks an infant of only a year or two old, or under, the true caufe of it is feldom difcovered until fome time after the effect has taken place, at lean: not by parents and nurfes, who know not where to look for it. The child is faid to be un- commonly backward in the ufe of his legs, or it is thought to have received fome hurt in its birth. When it affects a child who is old enough to have already walked, and who has been, able to walk, the lofs of the ufe of his legs is gradual, though in general not very flow. Vol. III. E e He418 ON THE PALSY He at firft complains of being very foon tired, is languid, liftlefs, and unwilling to move much, or at all brifkly; in no great length of time after this he may be obferved frequently to trip, and ftumble, although there be no impediment in his way; and whenever he attempts to move brifkly, he finds that his legs involuntarily crofs each other, by which he is frequently thrown down, and that without Humbling; upon endeavouring to ftand frill and ereft, without fupport, even for a few minutes, his knees give way and bend forward. When the diftemper is a little farther advanced, it will be found that he cannot, without much dif- ficulty and deliberation, direct either of his feet precifely to any exatft point; and very foon after this, both thighs and legs lofe a good deal of their natural fenfibility, and be- come perfe&ly ufelefs for all the purpofes of locomotion. When an adult is the patient, the progrefs of the diftemper is much the fame, but rather quicker. Until the curvature of the fpine has been difcovered, it generally palfes for a nervous complaint; but when the ftate of the back . bone has been adverted to, recourfe is almoft 7 alwaysOF THE LOWER LIMBS. E e 2 on always had to fome previous violence to ac- count for it; fome pulling, lifting, carrying, or drawing a heavy body, which is fuppofed to have hurt the back. In fome few in- ltances, this exertion may have been fuch, as might be allowed to have been equal to the effect; but, in by much the majority, this is fo far from being the cafe, that if it be admitted to have had any mare at all in it, fome predifpoiing caufe, at leaft, muft be looked for, in which (in my opinion) confifts the very effence of the difeafe. I have, in compliance with cuftom, called the difeafe a palfy; but it mould be obferved that notwithftanding the lower limbs be ren- dered almoft, or totally ufelefs, yet there are fome effential circumftances in which this affection differs from a common nervous palfy; the legs and thighs are, I have juff faid, rendered unfit for all the purpofes of locomotion, and do alfo lofe much of their natural fenfibility, but notwithftanding this, they have neither the flabby feel, which a truly paralytic limb has, nor have they that feeming loofenefs at the joints, nor that total incapacity of refinance, which allows the latter to be twifted in almoft all diredions:42° ON THE PALSY on the contrary, the joints have frequently a confiderable degree of ftiffnefs, particularly the ancles, by which ftiffnefs the feet of children are generally pointed downward, and they are prevented from fetting them flat upon the ground. { The curvature of the fpine, which is fup- pofed to be the caufe of this complaint, varies in fituation, extent and degree, being either in the neck or back, and fometimes (though very feldom) in the upper part of the loinsj fometimes comprehending two vertebrae only, fometimes three, or more, by which the ex* tent of the curve becomes neceffarily more or lefs; but whatever may be the number of vertebras concerned, or whatever may be the degree or extent of the curvature, the lower limbs only feel the effect—at leaft I have never once feen the arms affected by it. This effect is alfo different in different fubjects: fome are rendered totally and ab- folutely incapable of walking in any manner, or with any help, and that very early in the courfe of the diftemperj others can make a fliift to move about with the help of crutches, or by grafping their own thighs with their hands5 fome can fit in an erect pofture, or inOF THE LOUVER LIMBS. , 421 in a chair, without much trouble or fatigue, which others are incapable of, at leaft for any length of time; fome have fuch a degree of motion in their legs and thighs, as to en- able them to turn and move for their own convenience in bed, others have not that be- nefit, and are obliged to lie till moved by another. When a naturally weak infant is the fub- jec~t, and the curvature is in the vertebra? of the back, it is not infrequently productive of additional deformity, by gradually render- ing the whole back what is commonly called humped; and by alterations which all the bones of the thorax fomefimes undergo, in confequence of the flexure and weaknefs of the fpine, by which fuch perfons are juffly fa id to be fhortened in their ftature : but in all cafes where this effect has been gradually produced, to whatever degree the deformity may extend, or however the alteration made in the difpofition of' the ribs and fternum may contribute to fuch deformity, yet I think that it will always be found, that the Curvature of the fpine appeared firft, and, if I may fo fay, fingly, and that all the reft Was confequential. Ee 3 While422 ON THE PALSY While the curvature of the fpine remains undifcovered or unattended to, the cafe is generally fuppofed to be nervous, and me- dicines fo called are mod frequently pre- scribed, together with warm liniments, em- brocations, and blifters, to the parts affected; and when the true caufe is known, recourfe is always had to fteel flays, the fwing, the fcrew chair, and other pieces of machinery, in order to reftore the fpine to its true and natural figure; but all, as far as I have ob- ferved, to no real or permanent good purpofo: the patient becomes unhealthy, and, lan- guishing for forrje time under a variety of complaints, dies in an exhaufted, emaciated ftate; or, which is ftill worfe, drags on a miferable exiftence, confined to a great chair, Or bed, totally deprived of the power of locomotion, and ufelefs both to himfelf and others. This in an infant is moft melancholy to fee, in an adult mod miferable to endure. The general health of the patient does not feem at firft to be materially, if at all, affect- ed ; but when the difeafe has been fome time, and the curvature thereby increafed, many inconveniences and complaints come on,OF THE LOWER LIMBS. 423 on, fuch as difficulty in refpiration, indigef- tion, pain, and what they all call tightnefs at the flomach, obftinate conftipations, purgings, involuntary flux of urine and fasces, &c. with the addition of what are called nervous complaints; fome of which are cauf- ed by the alterations made in the form of the cavity of the thorax, others feem to arife from impreffions made on the abdominal vifcera. Thefe are different both in kind, and in degree, in different fubjefts, but feem to depend very much on the confe- quences of the curvature—that is, in natur- ally infirm children, although the curvature of the dorfalvertebrae is always, the firft mark of the diftemper, by preceding every other, yet it is frequently foon followed by fuch a degree of deformity of the bones of the trunk, as to be, in conjunction with the ne- ceffary inactivity and confinement of the pa- tient, productive of all the ills above-men- tioned. An affeding inftance of this diftemper in the perfon of a very promifing youth of fourteen years old, with whofe family I was nearly con- nected, induced me to think more of it than perhaps I otherwife fhould have done; and Ee 4 the424 ON THE PALSY the reftoration of the ufe of his limbs, im- mediately after a feemingly accidental abfcefs near the part, engaged my attention ftill more, and became a matter of frequent, though not very fatisfa&ory contemplation; I fay unfatisfaclory, becaufe it ferved only to increafe my doubts, without leading me to- ward a folution of them. The more I thought upon the fubjedt, the more I was inclined to fufpecl that we had been milled by appearances, and that a diftempered ftate of the parts forming, or in the neighbour-^ hood of curvature, preceded, or accompani- ed it: in fhort, that there was fomething predilpoling, and that we had moft probably mhlaken an effect for a caufe. For thefe fufpicions, I had the following reafons, which appeared to me to have fome weight; 1. That I had never feen this paralytic effedt on the legs from a mal-formation of the fpine, however crooked fuch mal-for- mation might have rendered it, or whether fuch crookednefs had been from time of birth, or had come on at any time afterwards dur- ing infancy. 2. That none of thofe ftrange twills and deviations.OF THE LOWER LIMBS. . 425 deviations, which the majority of European women get in their fhapes, from the very abfurd cuftom of dreffing them in ftays dur- ing their infancy, and which put them into all directions but the right, ever caufed any thing of this kind, however great the de- formity might be. 3. That the curvature of the fpine, which is accompanied by this affection of the limbs, whatever may be its degree, or extent, is at firft almoft always the fame, that is, it is al- ways from within, outward, and feldom or never to either fide. 4. That fince I had been particularly at- tentive to the diforder, I had remarked, that neither the degree nor the extent of the curve made any alteration in the nature or degree of the fymptoms at firft, nor for fome time after the appearance; or, in other words, that the fmalleft curvature, in which only two or three of the vertebrae were concerned, was always, at firft, attended by the fame fymptoms as the largeft. 5. That although it fometimes happened that a fmart blow, or a violent ftrain had immediately preceded the appearance of the purve, and might be fuppofed to have given rifeA26 ON THE PALSY rife to it, yet in many more adults it hap- pened that no fuch caufe was fairly afiignable, and that they began to ftoop, and to faul- tier in their walking, before they thought at all of their back, or of any violence of- fered to it. 6. That exactly the fame fymptoms are found in infants, and in young children, who have not exerted themfelves, nor have been injured by others, as in the adult, who has {trained himfelf, or received a blow; and that the cafe was ftill the fame in thofe grown people, who have neither done, nor fufFered any act of violence. f. That although it muft be allowed, that a diflocation of any of the vertebras, would moft probably be attended with the fame kind of fymptoms from the preflure it muft make on the fpinal marrow, yet it is alfo mod probable that fuch fymptoms would be immediate, and attended with .great pain in the part; neither of which is in general the cafe here. Thefe confiderations appeared to me to have much force; but what confirmed me in my opinion was the ft ate of the parts forming the curvature, and which I had feveralOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 427 feveral fair opportunities of examining after death. By thefe examinations I found, in infants, in young children, and in thofe who had been afflicted with the diforder but a fmall fpace of time, that the ligaments con- necling the vertebrae, which formed the curve, were in fome degree altered from a natural ftate, by being fomewhat thickened and relaxed, and, that what are called the bodies of thofe bones, were palpably fpread and enlarged in their texture, juft as the bones forming the articulations are in chil- dren who are called ricketty. That in thofe who had long laboured under the diftemper, and in whom the fymptoms were aggravat- ed, whatever might be their age, the liga- ments were ftill more thickened, relaxed, and altered, the bodies of the bones more fpread, more enlarged, and more inclining to become carious, and the cartilages be- tween the bodies of the vertebras much comprefTed and lefTened in fize; and that in all thofe who had fo long laboured under the difeafe, as ,to have been deftroyed by it, or by its confequences, the corpora verte- brarum were completely carious, the in- tervening cartilages totally deftroyed, and a quantity42$ ON THE PALSY a quantity of fanies lodged between the rot- ten bones, and the membrane inverting the fpinal marrow3. All thefe circumftances put together, in* duced me, as I have already faid, to fufpec\ that when we attribute the whole of this mifchief to the mere au idental curvature of the fpine, in confequence of violence, we miftake an effect for a caufe; and that pre- vious both to the paralytic ftate of the legs;, and to the alteration of the figure of the back bone, there is a pretiifpofjog caufe of both, confiding in a diftempered ftate of the ligaments and bones, where the curve foon after makes its appearance. While the fubject was frefh in my mind, I happened to be at Worcefter, and in a converfation on it with the late Doctor Cameron of that place, I mentioned to him my opinion, and my doubts: the Doctor concurred with me, and at the fame time mentioned a circumftance, which made a flrong imprefTion on me. He faid, that he 8 In the body of a man who died not long fince, of this dis- order, in its lair and worft ftate, the bodies of three of the vertebrae were not only quite carious, but completely feparated from all connexions with the other parts of the fame vertebrae. a rememberedOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 429 remembered fome years ago, to have noted a pafTage in Hippocrates, in which he fpeaks of a paralyfis of the lower limbs being cured by an abfcefs in the back or loins; and that taking the hint from this, he, Dr. Cameron, had, in a cafe of a palfy of the legs and thighs, attended by a curvature of the back bone, endeavoured to imitate this act of na- ture, by exciting a difcharge near the part, and that it had proved very advantageous. He alfo referred me to Mr. JefFrys, a furgeon of eminence at Worcefter, for a farther ac- count of the fame kind pf attempt: this gentleman confirmed what Dr. Cameron had told me, and allured me that he had found the method equally fuccefsful. It may eafily be fuppofed, that thefe ac- counts from gentlemen of veracity, and of reputation in their profeffion, ftill added to my defire of knowing more on this fubject, and determined me to lofe no opportunity of getting information. The firft that offered was in an infant, ' whofe curvature was in the middle of the neck, and who bad loft the ufe of its legs for about two or three months. I made an iflue by incifion on one fide of the pro- jection,43° or>r THE PALSY je&ion, and gave ftri& charge to the mother to take care that the pea was kept in; the woman, who had no faith in the remedy, did not take the proper care, and confe- quently the difcharge was not equal to what it mould, and might have been; but not- withfranding this neglect, at the end of about three weeks or a month the child was manifefrly better, and began to make ufe of its legs j it was then feized with the fmall- pox, and died. The bodies of the vertebra? concerned in the curve were larger than they mould be, and than thofe above and below were, and their texture much more open and fpongy; which difference appeared im- mediately, before the parts covering them were diflecled off. Some time paffed before I had another opportunity. My next patient was a tall thin man, about thirty-five years old, who thought that he had hurt himfelf by lifting a heavy weight: his legs and thighs were cold, and what he called nummy, but not abfolutely ufelefs: he could with difficulty go about the room with the help of a pair of crutches, but he could neither rife from his chair, nor get on his crutches, without theOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 431 the afiiftance of another perfon, nor could he without them walk at all. I made a feton on each fide of the curve, which was in his back, about the middle; and having given his wife diredions how to drefs them, I called on him once in three or four days. At the end of fix weeks he had recovered the due degree of fenfation in his limbs, and found much lefs neceffity for the ufe of his crutches; he could rife from his bed and from his chair without affiftance, and by means of one crutch, and an under- hand flick, could walk for an hour, or more, without refting, and without fatigue. The fetons had now, from not having been pro- perly managed, worn their way out, and I would have converted each of them into an iffue, but as neither the patient nor his wife had ever believed that the difcharge had had any mare in his amendment, but on the con- trary that he would have been better without it, he would not fubmit to what I pro- pofed, and I left him. At the diftance of about three weeks from the time of my leaving him, I met him in the ftreet walking very ftoutly, with a common cane, of which he made little or no ufe. I afked him what he43* ON THfi PALSY he had done: he told me that the fores had continued to difcharge till within a few days; but that he had drank a great deal of com- frey-root tea, with ilinglafs* and he fuppofed fliat had cured him; I believe that the cure of this man will* by all who know any thing of medicine, be thought to be fo unlikely to have been ef- fected by the comfrey and ifinglafs, that my inference in favour of the feton will not be thought unreafonable, and that my determination to profecute the methodj from what I had heard and feen, was well foundedi Within the courfe of the laft ten or twelve months, I have had feveral fair op- portunities of doing this, both in St. Bar- tholomew's hofpital, and out of it j and ani very happy to be able to fay, that it has not only always anfwered, but in fome in- ftances greatly exceeded my moft fanguine expectations, by reftoring feveral moft refer- able and totally helplefs people to the ufe of their limbs, and to a capacity of enjoying life themfelves, as well as of being ufeful to others. I have now in the hofpital a boy about twelveOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 433 twelve years old, whofe cafe was fo truly deplorable, that I macje the experiment merely to avoid the appearance of inhu- manity, by difcharging him as incurable, without trying fomething. The curvature was in his back, and confided of three or four vertebras; but by means of the weak-, nefs thereby induced, the whole fet of dorfal ones had fo univerfally and gradually given way, that he was exceedingly deformed both behind and before: he was fo abfolutely in- capable of motion, that he could neither turn himfelf, nor fit up in his bed: his feet were pointed downwards, and his ancles fo ftiff, that when he was held up under the arms, the extremities of his great toes touch- ed the floor, nor could his feet be brought flat to the ground by any means, or force whatever. In fhort, he was as perfectly and as totally helplefs as can be fuppofed; and at the fame time in an exceeding general bad ftate of health, from diforders of the thoracic and abdominal vifcera. In this ftate he had been more than a year: it is now about three months fince the cauftics were applied; he is become healthy, and free from mod of his general complaints, has Vol>II?. F f the434 ON THE PALSY the mod perfect ufe of his legs while he is" in bed, can walk without the amftance of any body, or any thing to hold by; and from his manner of executing this, will, I make no doubt, in a very fhort fpace recover per- fectly the ufe of his legs.—To this I ought to add, that notwithstanding a confiderable degree of deformity does, and I fuppofe will, remain, yet the fpine in general is fo much ftrengthened, that he is fome inches taller than he was four months ago. The remedy for this moft dreadful difeafe confifts merely in procuring a large difcharge of matter, by fiippuration, from underneath the membrana adipofa on each fide of the curvature, and in maintaining fuch difcharge until the patient mall have perfectly reco- vered the ufe of his legs. To accomplifh this purpofe, I have made ufe of different means, fuch as fetons, iffues made by incifion, and iffues made by caufticj and although there be no very material difference, I do upon the whole prefer the laft. A feton is a painful and a nafty thingj befides which, it frequently wears through the fkin before the end for which it was made can be accomplifhed: iffues made by incifion, if they Jpe large enoughOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 435 enough for the intended purpofe, are apt to become inflamed, and to be very trouble- fome before they come to fuppuration j but openings made by cauftic are not in general liable to any of thefe inconveniences, at lead not fo frequently, nor in the fame de- gree : they are neither fo troublefome to make or to main- tam- * make the efchars about / \ this fize and fliape on each fide f j the curve, tak- ing care to leave V / a fufficient por- tion of fkin be- tween them: in a few days, when the efchar begins to loofen and feparate, I cut out all the middle, and put into each a large kidney-bean: when the bottoms of the fores are become clean by fuppuration, I fprinkle every third or fourth day, a fmall quantity of finely powdered cantharides on them, by which the fores are prevented from contracting, the difcharge increafed, and poffibly other benefit obtain- ed. The iflues I keep open until the cure is complete, that is, until the patient recovers perfectly the ufe of his legs, or even for fome time longer; and I fhould think that it would be more prudent to heal only one of them firft, keeping the other open for fome F f 2 time;43^ ON THE PALSY " time; that is, not only until the patient can walk, but until he can walk firmly, brifkly, and without the afliftance of a flick; until he can ftand quite upright, and has recover- ed all the height, with the habit, or rather the neceffity of {looping, occafioned by the diftemper, had made him lofe. I have faid that the difcharge by means of the iffue, is all that is requilite for a cure -3 which is true, as I have experimentally prov- ed by not ufing any other, in cafes which have fucceeded perfectly: but this fact being eflablhbed, there is no reafon why every af- firmant means ihould not be applied at the fame time, in order to expedite: fuch as bark, cold-bathing, frictions, &c. That the patient becomes more upright as his legs become ftronger, is certain, and therefore appears taller, as well as ftraighter in proportion, as the whole fpine ftrengthens; but whether the curvature will always and totally diiappear, I am not yet able to fay with certainty. In two late inftances, both adults, it has; but the deformity which, in weak infants and children, is often the confequence of the curvature, and of the ftate of the fpine at tfcat place, muft in fome degree, I 6 fcar,OF THE LOWER LIMBS. 437 fear, be expected to remain; but of this I am not yet able to fpeak with abfolute cer- tainty. There are few other circumftances, of no great moment perhaps, but which will require more time to afcertaiii than I thought mould be furrer^d to pafs, before mankind were made acquainted with the great means of relief, in fo diftreffing, fo melancholy, and fo dreadful a malady: for the reader will be pleafed to remember what I told him at the beginning of- this tract, which was, that my motive for publiming this account fooner than might appear in general to be right, or indeed than 1 otherwife mould have done, was a defire that as little time as poflible might be loft, in conveying to the profeffion in particular, and to mankind in general, the means of relief under an afflic- tion, which, till thefe were known, has not admitted of any: and this I was ftill more incited to do, becaufe the remedy is as harmlefs, and as void of hazard, as it is efficacious.ON THE PALSY In the preceding trad I have related the appearances which the parts conftituting the feat of the diftemper make upon examination after death; or, to fpeak more properly, the different ftates of thefe parts in different perfons, and at different periods of this dif- eafe. Thefe, though neceffarily fubjecl: to confiderable variety, may, I think, be re- duced to three general ones. 1. A fmall degree of an increafe of lize in the bodies of the vertebrae, forming the curve, with an apparent laxity in their tex- ture, and a relaxed ftate of the connecting ligaments, by which they feem to have loft part of their power of holding the bones together. 2. A more confiderable, and more ap- parent enlargement of the fame parts of the vertebras, whofe fpongy texture becomes more vifibly fpread through their whole fubftance, and tending towards a caries, with an apparently diftempered ftate, both of the ligaments, and of the intervening cartilages. 3. A truly carious ftate of the bodies of the bones; a diffolution, or deftruclion ofOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 43Q of the cartilaginous fubftance between them; and a lodgment of fanies on the furface of the membrane enveloping the fpinal marrow. Thefe are I think the moft particularly different ftates or ftages of the diforder, and are fuch as, in my opinion, decifively mark the true nature of it. Between thefe in different perfons, and under different circumftances, there muft be a confiderable variety, but the material dif- ference will be only in degree. From the whole, the few following prac- tical inferences feem fairly deducible. 1. That the difeafe does not originally confift in a difplacement of the vertebrae, made by violence, the bones and ligaments being previoufly in a found and uninjured ftate; but in fuch a morbid alteration of the texture of both, as will, if not timely prevented, produce curvature and caries, with all their confequences. 2. That the proper remedies for this dif- eafe cannot be applied too foon. 3. That the reftoration of the fpipe. to its natural figure, depends much on the early adminiftration of the help propofed. F f 4 4. That44° ON THE PALSY 4. That although the diftemper may be fo far cured, that the patient may perfeclly recover the ufe of his legs, yet fuch an al- teration may have taken place in the bodies of the vertebrae, as to render it impoffible for the fpine to become ftraight again. 5. That when three or four, or more vertebrae, are concerned in the curve, the trunk of the body will have fo little fupport from that part of the fpine which is not diftemperedi that no degree of deformity can be wondered at; nor can it be expected that fuch deformity mould be removed, whatever other benefit, fuch patient may receive. 6. That if from inattention, from length of time, or from any other circumffances, it happens that the bodies of the vertebra? become completely carious, and the inter- vening cartilages are deftroyed, no affiftance is to be expected from the propofed remedy. To thefe I will take the liberty of adding, that it appears to me well worth while, to try what a large and free difcharge, made for a length of time from the vicinity of the diftunpercd part, might be capable of doing in the very beginning of what are commonlyOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 441 commonly called fcrophulous joints; which, when arrived to a certain point, baffle all our art, and render a painful and hazardous operation abfblutely neceflary. Within thefe laft fix or eight months, feveral cafes of curved fpine have been re- ceived into St. Bartholomew's hofpital, where they have been feen by great numbers of the profeffion. The novelty of the treatment, and the fuccefs which has hitherto conftantly attended it, has necefTarily engaged the at- tention of many, and occafioned fome con- ventions on the fiibject. In fome of thefe it has been faid, that as it appears to be un- deniably a difeafe of the bony texture of the bodies of the vertebrae, it may be appre- hended, that the relief expecled from the cauftics, may, in fome cafes, fail, and in others may not prove permanent; and, that the fame kind of conftitution remaining, a return of the malady may not unreafonably be feared. To this I can only anfvver, that although 1 have called this an early publication, yet I have waited a fufficient length of time, and have treated a fufficient number of fub- je£ts, to be clear in the truth of what I have442 .) ON THE PALSY have averted, as far as fuch time, and fuch individuals go. That the patients whom I have attended in the early part of the dif- temper, of whatever age, have all got well: that is, have all not only regained the ufe of their legs, but have become healthy, and fit for any exercife or labour, as numbers can teftify, who have feen them daily. Moft of them have become much ftraighter, fome quite ftraight, and all of them perfectly free from all kind of inconvenience arifing from the curve. That in all the infants whom I have feen, the general health of the patient has always been reftored in proportion to the reftoration of the ufe of the limbs. That I muft fuppofe all this to have been done by the difcharge from the cauftics, becaufe in many of them no other means of any kind have been made ufe of. That as far as my experience goes, I have not the leaft doubt, that if the means pro- pofed be made ufe of before the bones are become really carious and rotten, they will always be fuccefsful. When indeed a truly rotten ftate of the bones takes place, no good is to be expected from this or from any thingOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 443 thing elie: but it fhould be obferved at the fame time, that this never happens but when the diftemper is of very old date, and that when this is the cafe, the whole machine is fo difordered, and the patient fo truly and fo generally diftempered, that there can be no reafonable expectation of fuccefs from any thing. To this I mutt take the liberty of adding, that what I have affirmed, is what I have feen and proved, and that the objections are merely fpeculative and theoretical. How- ever, fuppoiing them to be not quite un- reafonable, the moft ufeful inference to be drawn from them is, that the fame remedy by which fo great and fo evident relief is obtained, ought to be continued, while there may be any fear of return of the mifchief; and that every other means for the reftor- ation of health and ftrength fhould at the fame time be made ufe of; both which coincide abfolutely with my own opinion and advice. FARTHERFARTHER E M A R K ON THE USELESS STATE OF THE O WER LIMB IN CONSEQUENCE OF A CURVATURE OF THE SPINE,1 FARTHER REMARKS, &c. It is now near three years fince I flrft trou- bled the public with my obfervations on the difeafe which makes the fubject of the fol- lowing tract. The apology which I then made, for what I was perfectly aware might be thought a premature publication, was, that the dif- temper to which it related was fupppfed to be incapable of receiving any relief from art; and that they who were afflided with it were therefore deferted, and left to linger out a mod miferable exiftence; but, that from the benefit which I had feen to be derived from a particular, and at the fame time a perfectly fafe method of treating it, I thought that it demanded the immediate and ferious regard of the profeffion. Previous to the publication, 1 had con- fidered the difeafe with fome attention, and had i448 ON THE PALSY had made fome experiments on it, which, although not many, were fufficient in num- ber, and had been attended 'with fuch a de- gree of fuccefs as to fatisfy me, that it was a fubjed: in which mankind was much inte- refted; but as I did not think that any one man's experience, be it what it might, was fufficient to determine a"matter of fo much importance, I wifhed that the faculty at large might be made acquainted with what I had feen and done, that they might be induced to make the fame experiment, and thereby either contradict or confirm what I had faid; if the former mould be the refult, my pro- portion would foon meet with the negleft which it would deferve; I could only confole myfelf with the rectitude of my intention, and be forry for my miftake: but if, on the contrary, the attempts of others, mould prove as fuccefsful as mine, it appeared to me, that the chirurgic art would make a great acqui- fition, as it would be thereby furnifhed with the means of relieving one of the moft dif- treffing maladies to which human nature is liable; a malady which, when it befalls an adult, makes him completely miferable, by depriving him of all power of being ufeful toOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 449 to himfelf or others; a malady which, when an infant becomes its victim, renders all the care and tears, all the tendernefs and anxiety of the fondeft parent abfolutely unavailing, and a malady for which it was fuppofed,- there was no remedy. Thefe were my reaforts for hazarding my opinion fo haftily: the importance of the fubjecT:, and the perfect fafety of the experi- ment, were, as I thought, a fufncient excufe for fo doing. My wifnes, and my expectations, have been moft pleafingly fulfilled. I have re- ceived fuch manifold and repeated teftimony of the fuccefs of the propofed method, from fo large a number of the moft eminent prac- titioners, not only in this town and kingdom, but in many other parts of Europe: that thefe, added to my own experience, have completely fatisfied me, and enabled me to fay, that in proper cafes, and under proper treatment, I have no doubt of its being univerfal. In all the time which has pafTed fince the firft publication, I have fought and em- braced every opportunity of obtaining in- formation, both from the living and from the Vol. HI. G g dead;45° 0N THE PALSY dead; and I have requefted and received the affiftance of many friends, whofe civili- ties, and whofe information, I take this op- portunity of acknowledging. By thefe means I have been enabled to correct feveral errors, and to make fome ad- ditional obfervations, which I hope may not only elucidate the original fubjedt, but may ferve other equally valuable purpofes. Truths built on obfervation and experience, feldom fhmd fingle; they generally lead to others, and become the means of more diffufive knowledge. The Difeafe, of which I am to fpeak, is a difeafe of the Spine, producing an alteration in its natural figure, and not unfrequently at- tended with a partial, or a total lofs of the power of ufittg, or even of moving, the lower limbs. From this laft circumflance, (the lofs of the ufe of the limbs) it has in general been call- ed a Paliy, and treated as a paralytic affec- tion;OF THE. LOWER LIMBS. 45I tion; to which it is in almoft every refpect perfectly unlike. The occalion of the miftake is palpable; the patient is deprived of the ufe of his legs, and has a deformed incurvation of the ipine; the incurvation is fuppofed to be caufed by a dillocation of the vertebras; the difplaced bones are thought to make an unnatural prefTure on the fpinal marrow, and a preffure on that being very likely to produce a paralyfis of fome kind, the lofs of the ufe of the legs is in this cafe determined to be fuch: the truth is. that there is no dillocation, no un- natural preffure made on the fpinal marrow; nor are the limbs by any means paralytic, as will appear to whoever will examine the two complaints with any degree of attention. In the true paralyfis, from whatever caufe; the mufcles of the affected limb are foft, flabby, unrefifting, and incapable of being put into even a tonic flate; the limb itfelf may be placed in almoft any pofitidn or pof- ture; if it be lifted up, and then let go, it falls down, and it is not in the power of the patient to prevent, or even to retard its fall : the joints are perfectly and eafily moveable in any direction; if the affedion be of the G g 2 lower452 ON THE PALSY. lower limbs, neither hips, knees, nor ancles, have any degree of rigidity or ftifFnefs, but permit the limb to be turned or twirled in almofr. any manner. In the prefent cafe, the mufcles are indeed extenuated, and leffened in fize; but they are rigid, and always at Ieaft in a tonic ftate, by which the knees and ancles acquire a ftifTnefs not very eafy to overcome j by means of this ftifFnefs, mixed with a kind of fpafm, the legs of the patient are either conftantly kept ftretched out ftraight, in which cafe confiderable force is required to bend the knees, or they are by the action of the ftrong- er mufcles drawn acrofs each other, in fuch manner as to require as much to feparate them: when the leg is in a ftraight pofition, the extenfer mufcles act fo powerfully as to require a confiderable degree of force to bend the joints of the knees and when they have been bent, the legs are immediately and ftrongly drawn up, with the heels toward the buttocks: by the rigidity of the ancle joints joined to the fpafmodic action of the gaftroc- nemii mufcles, the patient's toes are pointed downward in fuch manner as to render it impoflible for him to put his foot flat to the tOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 453 ground: which makes one of the decifive charadteriftics of the diftemper. - Thefe are ftrong marks of the diftin&ion which ought to be made between the two difeafes; and fully fufficient to ftiew the impropriety of confounding them with each other. The majority of thofe who labour under this difeafe are infants or young children : adults are by no means exempt from it, but I have never feen it at an age beyond forty. When it attacks a child who is old enough to have walked properly, its auk- ward and imperfect manner of ufing its legs, is the circumftance which firft excites at- tention, and the incapacity of ufing them at all, which very foon follows, fixes that at- tention, and alarms the friends. The account moft frequently given if, that for fome time previous to the incapacity, the child had been obferved to be languid, liftlefs, and very foon tired; that he was unwilling to move much, or brifkly; that he had been obferved frequently to trip and ftumble, although no impediment lay in his way; that when he moved haftily or un- G g 3 guardedly,454 ON THE PALSY guardedly, his legs would crofs each other involuntarily, by which he was often and fuddenly thrown down; that if he endea- voured to ft and ft ill, and upright, unfup- ported by another perfon, his knees would totter and bend under him; that he could not with any degree of precifion or certainty, fteadily direcl either of his feet to any par- ticular point, but that in attempting fo to do, they would be fuddenly, and involun- tarily brought acrofs each other; that foon after this, he complained of frequent pains and twitchings in his thighs, particularly when in bed, and of an uneafy fenfation at the pit of his ftomach; that when he fat on a chair, or a ftool, his legs were almoft always found acrofs each other, and drawn up under the feat; and that in a little time, after thefe particulars had been obferved, he. totally loft the power of walking. Thefe are the general circumftances which are found, at leaft in fome degree, and that pretty uniformly in moft infants and children, but there are others which are different in different fubje&s. If the incurvation be of the neck, and to a confiderable degree, by affecting feveral vertebra?,OF THE LOWER LIMBS. 4,55 vertebrae, the child finds it inconvenient and painful to fupport its own head, and is always defirous of laying it on a table or pillow, or any thing to take off the weight. If the affe&ion be of the dorfal vertebra?, the general marks of a di-ftempered habit, fuch as lofs of appetite, hard dry cough, laborious refpiration, quick pulfe, and dif- pofition to hectic, appear pretty early, and in fuch a manner as to demand attention : and as in this ftate of the cafe there is always, from the connexion between the ribs, fternum, and fpine, a great degree of crookednefs of the trunk, thefe complaints are by every body fet to the account of the deformity merely. In an adult, the attack and the progrefs of the difeafe are much the fame, but there are fome few circumftances which may be learned from a patient of fuch age, which either do not make an impreffion on a child, or do not happen to it. An adult, in a cafe where no violence hath been committed, or received, will t>ell you, that his firft intimation was a fenfe of weaknefs in his back bone, accompanied with what he will call a heavy dull kind of pain, attended with fuch a laffitude as pen* G g 4 dered45^ ON THE PALSY dered a fmall degree of exercife fatiguing: that this was foon followed by an unufual fenfe of coldnefs in his thighs, not ac- countable for from the weather, and a pal- pable diminution of their fenfibility. That in a little time more, his limbs were fre- quently convulfed by involuntary twitch- ings, particularly troublefome in the night: . that foon after this, he not only became in- capable of walking, but that his power either of retaining or difcharging his urine and faeces was confiderably impaired, and his penis became incapable of erection. The adult alfo finds all the offices of his digeftive, and refpiratory organs much affect- ed, and complains conftantly of pain and tightnefs at his ftomach. Jn infants, the curve is feldom noticed till it has got to fuch fize and llate, as to demand attention from the deformity: pre- vious to this, all the marks of diftemper which appear in the child, pafs for the ef- fects of general weaknefs, and are treated as fuch i differently by different people, and under different circumftances, but never with any permanent good effect; fome of the adventitious fymptoms, if I may fo call them,OF THE LOWER LIMBS. Af$J them, are, in fome degree, relieved, but the principal remain in full force, or, what is much more frequent, go on increafing. In an adult it paries for rheumatifm, or gravel, or a ftrain, and the defect in the limbs is the firft thing that occafions an inquiry into the ftate of the back bone. When a curvature is perceived in an in- fant, it is always fuppofed to have received a hurt by a blow, or fall, and an adult has always recourfe to fome exertion in pulling, drawing, lifting, or carrying, by which the fpine is thought to have been deranged, or injured j but which fuppofition is feldom, if ever true in either cafe. The true caufe of the difeafe, is a morbid ftate of the fpine, and of fome of the parts connected with it; which diftempered ftate of parts will, upon careful inquiry, be always found to have preceded the de- formity fome length of time; in infants this is the fole caufe, and external violence has nothing to do with it. In the adult, I will not affert that external mifchief is always and totally out of the queftion, but I will venture to affirm what is equal, as far as regards the true nature of the cafe, which is, that45<3 ON THE PALSY that although accident and violence may in forae few inftances be allowed to have con- tributed to its more immediate appearance, yet the part in which it fhews itfelf, muft have been previoufly in a morbid ftate, and " thereby predifpofed for the production of it. I do not by this mean to fay that a violent exertion cannot injure the fpine, nor produce a paralytic complaint, that would be to fay more than I know; but I will venture to affert, that no degree of violence whatever is capable of producing fuch an appearance as I am now fpeaking of, unlefs the bodies of the vertebras were by previous cliftemper dif- pofed to give way; and that no fuppofable diilocation, caufed by mere violence done to the bones of the back, which bones were before the receipt of the injury in a found ftate, can poffibly be attended with the pe- culiar fymptoms of a curved fpine. In which diltinclion, according to my judg- ment, confifts the very elfence of the dif- eafe. Violence may ealily be fuppofed to brine the two vertebrae nearer to each other than they ought to be, and by cruming an intermediate one to produce a curvature ; but then the body of the vertebrae fo cruhV cd,OF THE LOWER LIMBS. 459 ed, muft. have been in a diftempered ftate previous to fuch violence: great violence may alfo fuddenly and immediately difplace a perfectly found vertebrae from its proper and natural fituation, with regard to thofe annexed to it; but the neoeffary confe- quences of thefe two kinds of injury muft be fo very different, that they never can be confounded together, or miftaken for each other, even by the mod inattentive ob- ferver. The true curvature is invariably uniform in being from within outwards; but it varies in fituation, in extent, and in degree 5 it affects the neck, the back, or the loins j it comprehends one vertebra only, or two, or more; and as few or more are affected, or, as thefe are more or lefs morbid, and con- fequently give way more or lefs, the curve muft be different; but whatever variety thefe circumftances may admit, the lower limbs alone,b in general, feel the effect. Some Since I began to put thefe papers together, 1 have feen two cafes, in one of which the arms only were affe&ed, in the other both legs and arms. Mr. E. Ford, of Golden Square, has favoured mc with th« examination and cafe of a lad, who left the ufc of both legs, and460 ON THE PALSY » Some are very foon after the curvature, rendered totally and abfolutely incapable, not only of walking, but of ufing their legs in any manner; others can make fhift to move about with the help of crutches, or by grafping their thighs juft above the knees with both hands; fome can lit in an armed chair without much trouble or fatigue, others cannot fit up with any help; fome retain fuch a degree of power of ufing-their legs, as to be able to fhift their pofture when in bed; others have no fuch power, and are obliged to be moved upon all occalions. Weak and delicate children are ihe moll: frequent fubjeds of this diftemper; and when in thefe, it feizes on the dorfal vertebrae, great deformity of the trunk both before, and behind, is the almoft inevitable and ne- ceffary confequence; this will be different in different perfons; but let the difference in this be what it may, it is an adjunct circum- ftance; and upon due inquiry it will always and both arms, from a curvature which Mr. Ford cured by means of the cauftics.—Mr. Parke, of Liverpool, has alfo obliged me with an account of two perfons, both under his care, both with ufelefs arras and legs, and both cured by the fame means.OF THE LOWER LIMBS. 461 be found that the curvature from within outward, preceded the other d* jformity, and was, at one time, the only one to be feen. Before the alteration of figure in the back bone has been difcovered, all the attention is paid to the limbs, in which the whole diforder is fuppofed to refide; and all the applications for relief are made to them: frictions, liniments, embrocations, blifters, &c. to which is generally added cold-bathing and electricity; when the curvature has been noticed, recourfe is immediately had to back- boards, collars, fteel boddice, fwings, fcrew- chairs, and other pieces of machinery, but all to no purpofe; the patient becomes daily more and more helplefs and unhealthy, lan- guishes for more or lefs time, and at lafl: dies either in an emaciated ftate from an hectic, or by a drain from an abfcefs formed within the body. That this is the cafe frequent and melan- choly experience evinces, but why it is fo, is perhaps not generally fo well underftod, or attended to as it ought to be. The primary and fole caufc of all the mifchief, is a diftempered ftate of the parts compofmg or in immediate connexion with the462 ON THE PALSY the fpine, tending to, and rrtoft frequent!/ ending in a caries of the body, or bodies, of one or more of the vertebrae: from this pro- ceed all the ills whether general, or local, apparent, or concealed ; this caufes the ill health of the patient, and, in time, the cur- vature. The helplefs ftate of the limbs, is only one confequence of feveral proceeding from the fame caufe j but though this effect is a very frequent one, and always affects the limbs in nearly the fame manner; yet the difeafe not having its origin in them, no ap- plication made to them only can ever be of any poffible ufe. The fame failure of fuccefs attends the ufe of the different pieces of machinery, and for i-eafons which are equally obvious. They are all, from the moft fimple to the moft complex, but particularly the fwing and the fcrew, calculated to obviate and re- move what does not exiff. They are found- ed UpOn the fuppofition of an actual difiocatiom which never is the cafe, and therefore they always have been and ever mud be unfuc- cefsful. To undefftand this in the cleareft and moft convincing manner, we need only reflect on. theOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 463 the nature of the difeafe, its feat, and the flare in which the parts concerned muft neceffarily be. The bones are either already carious, or tending to become fo; the parts connected with them are difeafed, and not infrequently ulcerated; there is no difplacement of the vertebrae with regard to each other, and the fpine bends forward only becaufe the rotten bone, or bones intervening between the found ones give way, being unable in fuch itate to bear the weight of the parts above. The moft-fuperficial reflection on this muft point out' to every one, why attempts of this kind can do no good, and a little more at- tention to the fubject will mew why they maybe productive of real, and great mifchief. The bones are fuppofed to be found, but dis- placed; thefe machines are defigned to bring them back to their former fituation, and thereby to reftore to the fpine its proper rec- titude; if therefore they have any power, that power mull be exercifed on the parts in con- nexion with the curve; which parts, when the difeafe is at all advanced, are incapable of bearing fuch a degree of violence without being much hurt thereby: this, if it were 4 merely.464 ON THE PALSY merely theoretical, being a conclufion drawn from the obvious and demonftrable flate of the diftempered parts, could not be deemed unreafonable; but, unfortunately for the afflicted, it is confirmed by practice. They who have had patience and fortitude to bear the ufe of them to fuch a degree as to affect the parts concerned, have always found in- creafe of pain and fever, and an exafperation of all their bad fymptoms, and I have known more than one inftance in which the attempt has proved fatal. The ufe of fome or other of thefe pieces of machinery is fo general, and the vulgar prejudice in their favour fo great, that not- withftanding I have been long convinced of their perfect inutility, yet if I had no other objection to them, I would not attempt to rob the afflicted of what they feem to derive fuch comfortable expectation from; but as I am fatisfied of their mifchievous effects, not only in the cafe of the prefent fubject, but in many others; I cannot help bearing my teftimony againft the indifcriminate and very improper uie which is daily made of them. They are ufed with defign to prevent growing children from becoming crooked or misfhapenOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 465 misfhapen, and this they are fuppofed to do by fupporting the back-bone, and by forcing the moulders unnaturally backward; the for- mer they cannot do, and in all cafes where the fpine is weak, and thereby inclined to deviate from a right figure, the latter action of thefe inftruments muft; contribute to, rather than prevent fuch deviation; as will appear to whoever will with any attention examine the matter: if, inftead of adding to the embarraftments of children's drefs by fuch iron reftraints, parents would throw off all of every kind, and thereby give nature an opportunity of exerting her own powers; and if in all cafes of manifeft debility recourfe was had to frictjori, bark, and cold bathing, with a due attention to air, diet, exercife, and reft, the children of the' opulent would, perhaps, ftand a chance of being as ftout, as ftraight, and as well fhapen as thofe of the laborious poor. When a child appears to be what the common people call naturally weakly, what- ever, complaints it may have are fuppofed to be caufed by its weak flate, and it is general- ly believed that time and common care will remove them; but when a curvature has VoL' ni- H h made4^6 ON THE PALSY made its appearance, all thefe marks of ill health, fuch as laborious refpiration, hard cough, quick pulfe, hectical heat and flufh- sng, pain and tightnefs of the ftomach, &c. are more attentively regarded, and fet to the account of the deformity confequent to the curve, more efpecially if the curvature be of the dorfal vertebras, in which cafe the defor- mity is always greateft: but whoever will carefully attend to all the circumftances of this diforder, will be convinced, that moft, if not all the complaints of children, labouring under this infirmity, precede the curvature, and that a morbid ftate of the fpine, and of the parts connected with it, is the original and primary caufe of bothc. I have in the former edition informed the reader, that my particular attention to this c When I publifhed the firlt edition of this tra<ft, I was not fo aware of this truth, as a more enlarged experience in, and a more careful attention to the diforder fince has made me. I am very glad to embrace this opportunity of acknowledg- ing, and of correcting the miflake, and the more fo as I am convinced that an inference of the greateft importance may be drawn from it. I am fatisfied that this malady may, in many inflances, by early and proper attention, be prevented from producing its otherwife inevitable confequences, temporary lamenefs, and permanent deformity. difeafeOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 467 difeafe was firft excited by an inftance of its being cured by a feemingly accidental ab- fcefs; that this firft gave me reafon to fuf- pecl, that we had miftaken an effect for a caufe, and, that upon mature deliberation upon the matter, I was ftili more inclined to think fo for the following reafons. 1. <e That I did not remember ever to " have feen this ufelefs ftate of the limbs H from a mere mal-formation of the fpine, «J however crooked fuch mal-formation tc might have made it. 2. That none of thofe deviations from " right fhape, which growing girls are fo li- i( able to, however great the deformity might " be, was ever attended with this effect. 3. ii That the kind of deformity, which ec was attended with this affection, of the te limbs, although it was different as to its " degree, and its extent in different people, " yet it was uniform in one circumflance, " which was, that the curvature always was " from within outwards. 4. " That fmce I had been particularly " attentive to the diforder, I thought that " I had obferved, that neither the extent, " nor degree of the curve, had in general H h 2 " produced4^8 ON THE PALSY " produced any material difference in the " fymptoms, but that the fmalleft was when <s perfectly formed, attended with the fame " confequences as the largeft. 5. " That although it had fometimes " happened, that a blow, or a ftrain, had 6f preceded the appearance of the curve, yet fi it much more frequently happened, that 44 no fuch caufe was affignable. 6. " That I had obferved exactly the fame " fymptoms in infants, and in young chil- " dren, who had neither exerted themfelves, «« nor were fuppofed to have received any <c injury from others; and that the cafe was " ftill the fame in thofe adults, who had no 4e fuch caufe to look to. 7. *« That although it might be expected, " that a diflocation of any of the vertebra?, " would be attended with fymptoms of the " paralytic kind, yet they would be very ic unlike to thofe which affected the limbs " in the prefent cafe." The fufpicions which thefe circumftances had excited in my mind, were confirmedd, by d Iii the firfi: edition I had dcfcribed the bones on which the difeafe had fcized, as being enlarged and fpread; upon re- peated©F THE LOWER LIMBS. 469 by what I had a few opportunities of obferv- in°- in the dead bodies of fome who had died afflided with this diforder, - and altoge- ther fatisfied me, that there muft be fome<- thing predifpofmg in the parts concerned j and that when we attribute the ufelefs ftate of the limbs merely to the curvature, we miftake, as 1 have juft faid, an effect for a caufe. At the fame time I gave an account of a converfation, which pafled between me and the late Dr. Cameron, of Worceiter, who told ' me, that having remarked in Hippocrates, an account of a paralyfis of the lower limbs, cured by an abfcefs in the back, he had, in a cafe of ufelefs limbs attended with a curva- ture of the fpine, endeavoured to imitate this act of nature by exciting a purulent difcharge, peated enquiry and examination, I am convinced that they are not. The bodies of the vertebra? concerned are often affetted, while the ligaments bear but little mark of diftemper; but whe- ther the ligaments be affefted, or not, the bodies of the verte- bras are always difeafed, which difeafe does not fo properly enlarge as erode: the Hate alfo of the intervertebral cartilages, 1 find to be fubjeft to great variety, they being fometimes totally deflroyed, while the caries is fmall in degree, frmetimes appa- rently but little injured, where the caries has done considerable jnifchief, and fometimes totally deftroyed and annihilated. H h 3 and47° 0N THE PALSY and that it had proved very beneficial; which was confirmed to me by Mr. Jeffrys, of Worcefter, who had made the fame experi- ment with the fame fuccefsc. From the time of my receiving this firffc information to the prefent, I have fought every opportunity of making the experi- ment j St. Bartholomew's hofpital has fel- dom been without cafes of this kind, and it is with infinite pleafure and fatisfaction, that I find myfelf enabled to fay, that in all cafes where the complaint has been fo circumftanced as to admit of even probable expectation, the attempt has been fuc- cefsful. If the cure of this moft dreadful diftem- per had depended upon an application to the conftitution in general, it might have required a variety of medicines, the ad- rniniftration of which muft have demanded judgment in adapting them to particular e In this place of the firft edition, I have a fhort account of the firft two or three cafes which occurred to me ; in this I omit •them as needlefs. The number of experiments which have been made by many of the moft eminent practitioners, at home and abroad, have fufHciently eftablifhed the faft, and render the relation of particular cafes unneceftary. i perfonsOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 4JI perfons and conftitutions; and it muft alfo, in the nature of things, have happened that many individuals could not have been be- nefited at all. But fortunately for the afflicted, the means of relief are fimple, uniform, and fafely applicable to every in- dividual, under almoft every pofiible cir- cumftance, not attended by the fmalleft de- gree of hazard, and capable of being executed by any body who' has the leaft portion of chirurgic knowledge: it confifts merely in procuring a large difcharge of matter, from underneath the membrana adipofa on each fide of the diftempered bones forming the curvature, and in maintaining fuch dif- charge until the patient fliall have recovered his health and limbs. They who are little converfant with matters of this fort, will fuppofe the means very inadequate to the propofed end; but they who have been ex- perimentally acquainted with the very •won- derful effects of purulent drains, made from the immediate neighbourhood of difeafes, will not be fo much furprifed at this par- ticular one; and will immediately fee how fuch kind of difcharge, made, and continued from the diftempered part, checks the fur- H h 4 ther472 0N THE PALSY ther progrefs of the caries, gives nature an opportunity of exerting her own powers, of throwing off the difeafed parts, and of pro- ducing by incarnation an union of the bones (now rendered found,) and thereby eftablifh? ing a cure. However, be all this as it may, the fact is undoubted, and the number of witnefles, as well as patients producible in confirma- tion of it is fo confiderable, that it is need? lefs to fay any thing more on that head. It is a matter of very little importance towards the cure, by what means the dif- charge be procured, provided it be large, that it come from a fufflcient depth, and, that it ]be continued for a fufflcient length of timef. I have tried the different means of fetons, iffues by incifion, and iffues by cauftic, and have found the laft in general preferable, being leaft painful, moft cleanly, mofl eafily manageable, apd capable of being longefl continued. 'The cauftics mould be applied on each fide of the curvature, in fuch a manner as f When I fay this, I mean to fignify that it is abfolutely without limitation, and muft depend on their beneficial effect toOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 473 to leave the portion of fkin covering the fpinal proceffes of the protruding bones, entire and unhurt, and fo large, that the fores upon the feparatjon of the efchars, may eafily hold each three or four peas in the cafe of the fmalleft curvature j but in large curves, at leaft as many more, Thefe ifiues mould not only be kept open, but the difcharge from them mould be maintained by means of orange peas, can- tharides in fine power, asrugo seris, or any fuch application as may be ft ferve the in- tended purpofe, which fliould be that of a large, and long continued drain. Whatever length pf time it may take to obtain a complete cure, by reftoring the health as well as the limbs, the irlues mud: be continued at leaft as long; and in my opinion, a confiderable time longer, efpe- cially in the perfons of infants and growing childrenj the neceffity of which will appear mere ftrongly, when it mall be confidered that infants and young children of ftrumous habits, are the fubjeds who are moft liable to this diftemper, and that in all the time previous to menftruation in one fex, and puberty in the other, they are in general more474 ON THE palsy more ferved by artificial drains than any- other perfons whatever. This, and this only, does or can alleviate the mifery attending this diftemper, and in proper time effect a cure. By means of thefe difcharges, the eroding caries is firfl checked, and then flopped in confequence of which an incarnation takes place, and the cartilages between the bodies of the vertebrae having been pre- vioufly deftroyed, the bones become united with each other and form a kind of anchy- lofis. The time neceffary for the accompliih- ment of this, muft in the nature of things, be confiderable in all cafes, but very differ- ent according to different circumflances. No degree of benefit or relief, nor any the fmallefl tendency towards a cure is to be expected, until the caries be flopped, and the rotten bones have begun to incarn; the larger the quantity of bones concerned, and the greater degree of wafte and havock com- mitted by the caries, the greater muft be the length of time required for the cor- re&ion of it, and for refloring to a found flateOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 475 ftate fo large a quantity of diftempered parts.—and vice verfa8. In the progrefs toward a cure, the fame gradation or fucceflion of circumftances may be obferved, as was found to attend the formation of the difeafe, with this difference, that they which attend the latter, are much more rapid than thofe which accompany the former. After the difcharge has been made fome time, very uncertain what, the patient is found to be better in all general refpecls, and if of age to diftinguifh, will acknow- ledge that he feels himfelf to be in better health j he begins to recover his appetite, gets refrefhing fleep, and has a more quiet and lefs hectical kind of pulfe, but the relief which he feels above all others, is from having got rid of that diftreffing fehfation of tightnefs about the ftomach; in a little time more a degree of warmth, and a fen- fibility is felt in the thighs, which they had been ftrangers to for fome time j and gene- E Nothing can be more uncertain than the time required for the cure of this diftemper. I have feen it perfected in two or three months, and I have known it require two years; two thirds of which time pafTed before there was any vifible amend- ment. rally47^ 0N THE PALSY rally much about the fame time, the power of retaining and difcharging the urine and fasces begins to be in fome degree exerted. The firft return of the power of motion in the limbs is rather difagreeable, the mo- tions being involuntary and of the fpaf- modic kind, principally in the night; and generally attended with a fenfe of pain in all the mufcles concerned. At this point of amendment, if it may be fo called, it is no uncommon thing, efpe- cially in bad cafes, for the patient to ftand fome time without making any farther pro- grefs; this in adults occasions impatience, and in parents defpair; but in the milder kind of cafe, the power of voluntary motion generally foon follows the involuntary. The knees and ancles by degrees lofe their ftifFnefs, and the relaxation of the latter enables the patient to fet his feet flat upon the ground, the certain mark that the power of walking, will foon follow but thofe joints having loft their rigidity, be- come exceedingly weak, and are not for fome time capable of ferving the purpofe of pro- greflion. The firft voluntary motions are weak, not conftantlyOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 477 conftantly performable, nor even every day, and liable to great variation, from a number of accidental circumftances, both external and internal. The firft attempts to walk are feeble, irregular, and uniteady, and bear every mark of nervous, and mufcular debility ; the patient Hands in need of much help, and his fteps, with the befr. fupport, will be, as I have juft faid, irregular and unfteady; but when they have arrived at this, I have never feen an inftance in which they did not foon attain the full power of walking. When the patient can juft walk, either with crutches, or between two fupporters, he generally finds much trouble and incon- venience, in not being able to refift, or to regulate, the more powerful action of the ftronger mufcles of the thigh over the weaker, by which his legs are frequently brought involuntarily acrofs each other, and he is fuddenly thrown down. Adults find afllftance in crutches, by lay- ing hold of chairs, tables, &c. but the beft and fafeft affiitance for a child, is what is called a go-cart, of fuch height as.to reach under the arms, and fo made as to inclofe the478 ON THE PALSY the whole body: this takes all inconvenient weight off from the legs, and at the fame time enables the child to move them as much as it may pleafe. Time and patience are very requifite; but they do in this cafe, as in many others, ac- complifh our wiihes at laft. The deformity remaining after recovery is fubjecl: to great uncertainty, and connder- able variety, as it depends on the degree of caries, and the number of bones afFected : in general, it may be faid, that where one vertebrae only is affe&ed, and the patient young, the curve will in length of time almofl totally difappear j but where two or three are affected, this cannot be expected; the thing aimed at is the confolidation and union of the bones, which had been carious, and are now become found : this is the fine qua non of the cure, and this mutt in fuch cafes render the curvature, and confequently the deformity, permanent: the ifTues will reftore the ufe of the limbs, but not the loft figure of the fpine. SinceOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 479 Since this method of treating the diftem- per has been made known, the difeafe itfelf has been more adverted to, and applications for relief have been more frequent than they were while it was regarded as incurable. The number received into St. Bartholomew's hofpital, has been confiderable, and as it may be fuppofed, fome in a ftate to admit of cure, others not. While the thing vvas new, and before a number of cures fufficient to eitablifli the fact had been wrought, it was doubted by moft and pontively denied by fome; but fince a variety of fucceffes has put the matter beyond all doubt, with regard to the reftoration of the ufe of the limbs, it has been faid, that as the difeafe is manifestly a difeafe of the bones, it is to be apprehended, that the expectation of relief may in fome cafes fail, and that in others it may not prove permanent; that the fame kind of conftitu- tion remaining, a return of the malady may be feared; and, in fhort, that a much greater degree of uncertainty may occur, than might be expected from the account which I have given. To the firft I anfwer, that in cafes where the caries is very extenfive, and the conlti- tution480 ON TH£ PALSY/ tution has been thereby fo injured as to pro- duce a degree of mifchief tending to the ■deftruction of the patient, no good is to be expected; the difeafe has been too long neg- lected, and is become thereby an overmatch for the remedy. But how does this differ from what may be faid, with the fame truth, of every difeafe, and of every remedy. To the fecond, third, and fourth remark, all I can fay is, that in the fpace of three years, during which I have had many opportunities of making the experiment, I have met with but one lingle inftance'in which it has failed, where from the ftate of the difeafe, and of the patient, there was any reafonable foun- dation for hopes; that all thofe who have fubmitted to keep the iffues open long enough, have been fo reftored to health, and to the free ufe of their limbs, as to be per- fectly capable, not only of exercife, but of hard labour, and that I have never yet, among thofe fo treated, met with one on whom the difeafe has returned. On the other hand, the nature of the ori- ginal diftemper in the habit, its effects both local and general, the gradual, flow manner in which alone a cure is obtainable, and the particularOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 481 particular circumftance on which fuch cure entirely depends, I mean the removal of the caries, and the union of the bones with each other, all very ftrongly point out the pro- priety of continuing that difcharge for a fuf- ficient length of time, from which and from which only, fuch benefit has been derived. At the beginning of the preceding tradl I have faid, that when I firft began to con- fider the diftemper with that degree of at- tention which it feemed to deferve, I was in- clined to fufpect that we had hitherto regarded it too fuperficially; that we had been fatisfied with obferving its external appearance merely, without enquiring into its real nature; that we had thereby been led to miftake an effect for a caufe, and that there muft certainly be either in the conftitution of the patient, or in the ftate of the parts concerned, fomething which tended to produce this very dreadful malady. I am fatisfied I was right in my conjecture, and am convinced, from every circumftance, general and particular, in the living, and Vol. III. I i from482 ON THE PALSY from every appearance in the dead, that the complaint arifes from what is commonly called a ftrumous, or fcrophulous indifpofi- tion, affe&ing the parts compofing the fpine, or thofe in its immediate vicinity. This morbid affection (hews itfelf in a variety of forms, but, although its appear- ances be various, yet they are always fuch as determine the true nature of the diftemper. Sometimes it appears in a thickened ftate of the ligaments, conneding the vertebras- together, without any apparent affection of the bones. Sometimes in the form of a diftempered ftate of the intervertebral fubftances, called cartilages. Sometimes in that of difeafed glands, either in a merely indurated and enlarged ftate, or what is more frequent, in that of a partial fuppuration. Sometimes it is found in the form of bags or cyfts, containing a quantity of fiuff of a very unequal confiftence, partly purulent, partly famous, and partly a curd-like kind of fubftance; and not unfrequently entirely of the laft. SometimesOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 483 Sometimes under thefe bags, or cyfts, even while they remain whole, the fubjacent bones are found to be diftempered, that is, deprived of periofteum, and tending to be- come carious. Sometimes thefe collections erode the containing membranes, and make their way downward by the fide of the pfoas mufcle, toward the groin, or by the fide of the pelvis behind the great trochanter, or in fome cafes to the outfide of the upper part of the thigh, Sometimes each of the diftempered ftates of thefe parts is accompanied by a greater or lefs degree of deformity, and crookednefs of the fpine without any apparent difeafe of the bones compofing it: fometimes the deformity is attended with an erofion, or caries of the body or bones of fome of the vertebrae; and fometimes the fame bones are found to be carious, without any crooked- nefs or alteration of figure. Thefe different affe&ions of the fpine, and of the parts in its immediate neighbourhood, are productive of many diforders, general and local, affecting the whole frame and habit I i 2 of484 ON THE PALSY of the patient, as well as particular parts 3 and, among the reft, of that curvature which is the fubject of this enquiry; and it may not be amifs to remark, that ftrumous tubercles in the lungs, and a diftempered. ftate of fome of the abdominal vifcera, often make a part of them. From an attentive examination of thefe morbid appearances, and of their effects in different fubjects, and under different cir- cumftances, the following obfervations, tending not only to illuftrate and explain the true nature of the difeafe in queftion, but alfo to throw light on others of equal im- portance, may I think be made. 1. That the difeafe which produces thefe effects on the fpine, and the parts in its vicinity, is what is in general called the fcrophula that is, that fame kind of indif- pofition as occafions the thick upper lip, the tedious obftinate ophthalmy, the indurated glands under the chin, and in the neck, the obftrutfed mefentery, the hard dry cough, the glairy fwellings of the wrift and ancles, the thickened ligaments of the joints, the enlargement,OF THE LOWER LIMBS. 485 enlargement, and caries of the bones, &c. &c. &c. 2. That this difeafe, by falling on the fpine, and the parts connected with it, is the caufe of a great variety of complaints, both general and local, 3. That when thefe complaints are not attended with an alteration of the figure of the back bone, neither the real feat, nor true nature of fuch diftemper are pointed out by the general fymptoms, and confe- quently, that they frequently are unknown, at leaft while the patient lives, 4. That when by means of this dif- temper an alteration is produced in the figure of the back bone, that alteration is different in different fubjecls, and according to different circumftances, 5. That when the ligaments and carti- lages of the fpine become the feat of the diforder, without any affection of the ver- tebrae, it fometimes happens that the whole* fpine, from the loweft vertebrae of the neck downwards, gives way laterally, forming fometimes one great curve to one fide, and fometimes a more irregular figure, produc- . I i 3 inS486 ON THE PALSY ing general crookednefs and deformity of the whole trunk of the body, attended with many marks of ill health. 6. That thefe complaints, which are by almoft every body fuppofed to be the effecT: of the deformity merely, are really occafioned by that diftempered flare of the parts within the thorax, which is at the fame time the caufe both of the deformity and of the want of health. 7. That the attack is fometirhes on the bodies of fome of the vertebrae; and that when this is the cafe, ulceration or erofion of the bone, is the confequence, and not enlargement. 8. That when this erofion or caries feizes the body or bodies of one or more of the vertebrae, it fometimes happens that the particular kind of curvature which makes the fubjed of thefe meets is the confe- quence. 9. That this curvature, which is always from within outward, is caufed by the erofion or deftruftion of part of the body or bodies of one or more of the vertebrae j by which means that immediately above the J diftemper,OP THE LOWER LIMBS. 4^7 Ii 4 can diftemper, and that immediately below it, are brought nearer to each other than they mould be, the body of the patient tends forward, the fpine is curved from within outward, and the tuberofity appears behind, occafioned by the protrufion of the fpinal proceffes of the diftempered vertebras. See plate i, 25 and 3. 10. That according to the degree of carious erofion, and according to the num- ber of vertebras affected, the curve muff be lefs or greater. . 11. That when the attack is made upon the dorfal vertebrae, the fternum and ribs, for want of proper fupport, neceffarily give way, and other deformity, additional to the curve, is thereby produced. 12. That this kind of caries is always confined to the bodies of the vertebras, feldom or never affecting the articular pro- ceffes h. 13. That without this erofive deftruc- tion of the bodies of the vertebrae, there h I have feen two cafes in which the bodies of the vertebras were totally feparated from all connexion with the other parts, leaving the membrane, which included the fpinal marrow, perfcdly bare. See plate 4.488 ON THE PALSY can be no curvature of the kind which I am fpeaking of; or, in other words, that erofion is the fine qua non of this difeafe j that although there can be no true curve without caries, yet there is, and that not infrequently, caries without curve. See plate 5. 14. That the caries with curvature and ufelefs limbs, is mod frequently of the cer- vical or dorfal vertebrae; the caries without curve, of the lumbal, though this is by no means conftant or necefTary. 15. That in the cafe of carious fpine, without curvature, it moft frequently hap- pens, that internal abfceffes, and collections of matter are formed, which matter makes its way outward, and appears in the hip, groin, or thigh; or being detained within the body, deftroys the patient: the real and immediate caufe of whofe death is feldom known, or even rightly gueffed at, unlefs the dead body be examined. 16. That what are commonly called lum- bal and pfoas abfceffes, are not infrequently produced in this manner, and therefore when we ufe thefe terms, we mould be underftood to mean only a defection of the courfe which fuchOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 489 fuck matter has purfued in its way outward, or the place where it makes its appearance externally, the terms really meaning nothing more, nor conveying any precife idea of the nature, feat, or origin of a diftemper fubject to great variety, and from which variety its very different iymptoms and events, in dif- ferent fubjeds, can alone be accounted for. 17. That contrary to the general opinion, a caries of the fpine is more frequently a caufe than an erfed of thefe abfcelfes. 18. That the true curvature of the fpine, from within outward, of which the para- lytic, or ufelefs ftate of the lower limbs, is a too frequent confeqnence, is itfelf but one effed of a diftempered fpine; fuch cafe being always attended with a number of complaints which arife from the fame caufe: the gene- rally received opinion, therefore, that all the attending fymptoms are derived from the curvature, confidered abftradedly, is by no means founded in truth, and may be pro- ductive of very erroneous conduct. 19. That in the cafe of true,curvature, attended with ufelefs limbs, there never is a dijlocation, properly to be fo called; but that the490 ON THE PALSY the alteration in the figure of the back bone, is caufed folely by the erofionj and deftruc- tion of a part of one or more of the corpora vertebrarumj and, that as there canbe.no true curvature without caries, it rauft be de- monftrably clear, that there muft have been a diftempered ftate of parts previous to fuch erofion j from all which it follows, that this diftemper, call it by what name you pleafe, ought to be regarded as the original caufe of the whole, that is of the caries, of the cur- vature, and all the attendant mifchiefs, be they what ;they may, general or particular: a confideration, as it appears to me, of infi- nite importance to ail fuch infants and young children, as mew either from their general complaints, or from their fhape, a tendency to this kind of evil; and whofe parents and friends generally content themfelves with a fwing, or piece of iron machinery, and look no farther. 20. That whoever will confider the real ftate of the parts when a caries has taken place, and the parts furrounding it are in a ftate of ulceration, muft fee why none of the attempts, by means of fvvings, fcrews, &c. canOF THE LOWER LIMBS, 49 « 6 ever can poffibly do any good, but on the contrary, if they aft fo as to produce any effect at all, it muff be a bad one. 21. That the difcharge, by means of the iffues, produces in due time (more or lefs under different circumftances) a ceffa- tion of the erofion of the bones; that this is followed by an incarnation, by means of which the bodies of the vertebrae which had been the feat of the difeafe, coalefce, and unite with each other, forming a kind of anchylofis. 22. That the different degrees and ex- tent of the caries, in different fubjecls, muft render all attempts to cure uncertain, both as to the time required, and as to the ulti- mate event: the leaft and fmalleft degree will (every thing elfe being equal) be fooneft relieved and cured; the larger and more ex- tenfive will require more time, and where the rottennefs is to a great degree, and all the furrounding parts in a ftate of dif- tempered ulceration, it muft foil all at- tempts, and deftroy the patient. 23. That when two or more vertebrae are affected, forming a large curve, how-£>■;■: ON THE PALSY ever perfect the fuccefs may be with regard to the reftoration of health and limbs, yet the curvature will and muft remain, in con- sequence of the union of the bones with each other. 24. That the ufelefs ftate of the limbs is by no means a confequence of the altered figure of the fpine, or of the difpofition of the bones with regard to each other, but merely of the caries: of this truth there needs no other proof, than what may be drawn from the cure of a large and extenfive curvature, in which three or more vertebra? were concerned: in this the deformity always remains unaltered and unalterable, notwithftanding the patient recovers both health and limbs. Upon the whole, after due confideration of what has been faid concerning the na- ture of the complaint, its producing caufe, and the method by which it is capable of being cured, I would alk, whether the dif- eafed ftate of the fpine, and of the parts conneaed with it, (which, if not prevented, muft produce fome of its very dreadful effete,) may not, by a timely ufe of proper means, be prevented ? A morbidOF THE LOWER LI MBS1. 493 A morbid llate of parts previous to de- formity, caries, or curve, muft be allowed 5 every complaint of the living, and every appearance in the dead, prove it beyond contradiction or doubt. All the general complaints of perfons afflicted with this dis- order will always, upon careful enquiry, be found to have preceded any degree of de- formity, to have increafed as the curve be- came apparent, and to have decreafed as the means ufed for relief took place : the pain and tightnefs about the ftomach, the indigeftion, the want of appetite, the dis- turbed fleep, &c. &c. gradually difappear, and the marks of returning health be- come obfervable before the limbs recover the fmalleft degree of their power of mov- ing. On the other hand, it is as true, that when from extent, or degree, or inveteracy of the caries, the iffues are found to be unequal to the wifhed-for effect, the general complaints receive no amendment, but increafe until the patient finks under them. If all this be true, which that it is, the manifold and repeated experience of many, as well as myfelf, can amply teitify; and494 ON THE PALSY if it be found that the iflues are capable of effecting a perfect cure, even after a caries has taken place, and that to a confiderable degree* which is alfo true to demonftiation, is it not reafonable to conclude, that the fame means made ufe of in due time might prove preventive ? If this was a matter of mere fpeculation* or opinion, I would be very cautious how I fpake on the fubjecl:; but it is really a mat- ter of experiment j and as far as I have had it in my power to put it to that teft, it has fucceeded, by the reftoration of loft health, and the prevention of a deformity which was advancing rapidly. It may, perhaps, be faid, that if no fuch means had been ufed, the fame fpace of time might have produced the fame effect: to this it is impoflible to make an anfwer: I {hall, therefore, content myfelf with having given my opinion, with the circumftances and reafons on which it is founded. I fhould be forry to be mifunderftood on this point, or to have it thought that I meant to fay, that every weak or ricketty child was neceifarily liable to a curved fpine; or that iflues were to be deemed an infallible re- medyOf THE LOWER LIMBS. 4O5 medy medy for the ills arifing from a ftrumous habit: far be it from me to fay either: what I would wifli to be underftood to mean is, that fuch kind of habit appears to me to be moft apt to produce fome of the mifchiefs mentioned in this tract: that as a purulent difcharge, derived from the neighbourhood of the fpine, is found, from repeated ex- perience, to be a fuccefsful remedy, even after the difeafe is confirmed by a caries, it feems to me to bid fairer than any thing elfe, if ufed in time, to become a preventive; and, that as fome other kinds of deformity are found to follow attacks of the fame kind of conftitutional diforder feizing on thefe parts, and which, though not caufing precifely the fame effect, are neverthelefs attended with the fame general fymptoms; I cannot help thinking, that it may be well worth while to try whether benefit be not obtainable by the fame means, in the one cafe as in the other; and if the old maxim, anceps remedium quam nullum" be admif- fible, furely an experiment, which is in its nature perfectly incapable of harm, is worth making". 1 Since Mr. Pott publifhedthe above valuable traft, I have had many opportunities of proving the excellence of the re-496 ON THE PALSY jnedy which it recommends; and, from fome cafes which oc- curred, had collected fucH obfervations as appeared to me to contain incontrovertible evidence of the efficacy of the cauftics in curvatures of the fpine : but their utility is now fo generally admitted, that it is not neceflary to fwell this work with them. 1 fhall therefore confine myfelf to remark that, in the latter part of Mr. Pott's life, he had applied the fame method of cure to other difeafes; particularly in ftrumous affeclions of the joint of. the hip, he had been feveral times fuccefsful in preventing an ihcreafe of caries, by means of an ulcer being eftabliftied in the neighbourhood of it. Iri thofe deplorable cafes, where one hip is let down below the other, where the parts are flabby, the glutsei mufcles lofe their firmnefs, the buttock its figure and convexity, and the leg is lengthened, he found that the prbgrefs of the difeafe may frequently be flop- ped, and the parts reftored to their natural firmnefs and figure, by making an iflue juft below the great trochanter. Mr. Pott remarked that the time when the change will take place, and the reftoration be complete, is indefinite: it may take place in a few weeks or months; or, as was obferved with regard to the effecl of cauftics in difeafes of the fpine; it may require a much longer time. Inlhort, every thing relative to the com- plaint is uncertain except the ultimate cure, which will rarely fail to reward our perfeverance. When the thigh was retraced, and accompanied with a tonfiderable fwelling, Mr. Pott was not fanguine in his prog- noses of recovery, but fpoke bfmoft applications as ineffica- cious Yet, even in thefe cafes, I have known the cauftics appli- ed with great apparent advantage. I will take the liberty to defcribe the outlines of a cafe which I faw the latter end of laft fommcr. I was defired by Mr. Berry to vifit a girl about eighteen years of age. She complained of pain in her knee, leading up toward the hip; (he could not ftraightcn her thigh, which was drawn up toward the pelvis, and with great difficulty fhe could walk acrofs the room : fhe had been deified, and had ufed variety of remedies, by the advice of fome gentlemen of eminence in the profeflion, to no purpofe ;-thc complaint grewOF THE LOWER LIMBS. 497 grew rapidly worfe, and (he was obliged to take to her bed. The thigh was now drawn up to the pelvis, the knee titrned in- ward, and the appearance was as if the head of the femur was diflocated; the parts furrounding the hip were turgid and enlarged, exquifitely painful to the touch, and on the fmalleft motion; blifters, embrocations, fomentations, &c. were tried in vain. The pain was now become almoft inceflant, the dif- eafe continued to inereafe, and bore the appearance of matter forming in the joint, and we did not doubt but that a caries of the bone would be the confequence, probably attended with an exoftofis. Though this was not a cafe in which Mr. Pott recom- mended an iflue, I was determined to give her the chance of one: a cauftic was accordingly applied below andpofterior to the great trochanter. She did not appear to be much ferved by it at firft, though we remarked that her pain was not fo vio- lent: in about fix weeks (he feemed to have recovered fome be- nefit, and though the limb was ftill contracted (he could ftraighten it better. I now found that the iflue had been neglected and nearly fuffered to-clofe. I recommended it to be enlarged, which was done the beginning of September: in about a week after, when the fuppuration was fairly eftablithed, Ihe began to grow better, the joint became unlocked, and in a few weeks flic had loft the pain of the hip, and was able to flraighten the thigh and leg perfectly; foon after ihe walked acrofs the room without help, only complaining of a little tendernefs in the joint, and in no great length of time afterward was perfectly recovered. — I do not mean to fpeak with prefumption or cer- tainty ; but, as no other method had been of the leaft fervice to her, as Ihe appeared to receive fome advantage from the firft application of the cauftic, and got perfectly well after the re- petition of it, we may reafonably infer that they were the principal caufes which produced the alteration and confequent cure. In thofe cafes in which Mr. Pott fucceeded a much longer time elapfed before the effect was produced. Mr. Pott alfo ufed cauilics in fcrophulous fwellings of the joint of the knee where there was fufpicion of beginning caries; they Vol. III. K k were498 ON THE PALSY, &C, were applied jufl: above and below the joint; in fomc cafes they appeared to be materially ferviceable in preventing the increafe of the fwelling, but in many others they failed. In fimilar difeafes of the joint of the ancle he alfo tried them; but, according to an obfervation of a very ingenious and accurate obferver *, the efFeft of the cauftics feems to be inverfely as the diftance of the part afFe&ed from the trunk; in thefe joints no advantage appeared to be derived from them. The idea, how- ever, is worthy of its author, and deferves further trials; indeed whatever has the leaft chance of being beneficial ought not to be negledted in thofe defperate cafes, which, if their prpgrefs be not prevented, terminate in the unavoidable lofs of the life or limb. f" * Dr. Auftin. ANAn. ACCOUNT of TUMOURS' Which rendered THE BONES SOFT, Communicated to the Royal Society byWlxYoTT, Surgeon; And printed in their Tranfa&ions, Vol. XLI. In November 1737a gentleman aged 27, com- plained to me of a fwelling in the infide of his right thigh (being in every other refpect in per- fect health). Upon examination it appeared to be an encyfted tumour of the fteatomatous kind, lying loofe between the fartorius and vaftus internus mufcles, I told him, I could propofe no way of curing it but by taking it out; which was accordingly done, and he was very well in fix weeks. After this he continued well for near a year (except that he now and then complained of a flight pain in the joint of that hip, which went off and returned at different times); and then fell into fuch a difpofition to deep, that no company or diverfion, nor his own endea- vours to the contrary, could keep him awake after eight or nine o'clock in the evening, if he fat down, K k a This500 AN ACCOUNT OF TUMOURS This continued on him for three or four months, and then the pain in his hip grew worfe; for which he ufed the cold bath, flefh- brufli, and riding on horfeback, but without any effect. Hereupon he alked the advice of Dr. Beau- fort, who put him into a courfe of the athiops mineral, cinnabar of antimony, and gum- guiacum, with the Spa-water, and purging with calomel by intervals. This method he purfued for a confiderable time, but without any benefit. After this, by the advice of fome acquaint- ance, he took half a drachm at fait of hartjhorn, night and morning, in a draught of warm whey, for fome time, but without any fenfible effect, even by perfpiration. Some little time after this, he began to complain of a flight periodical heat and thirft, which returned every night, with a quick hard pulfe, but which was not fo great as to make him uneafy. . It was now September 1739, when, having an opportunity of going with fome friends, he determined to try what the Bath would do for him: In his journey thither the nofturnal heat and thirft increafed fo much as to prevent hisWHICH RENDERED THE BONES SOFT. 5OI his fleeping; but in the few days that he fpent in recovering from the fatigue of the joutney they feemed to go off again. He then began to ufe the waters both in- ternally and externally; upon which the laft mentioned fymptoms again appeared, and he was obliged to defiit, and ufe cooling me- dicines. His phyficians then advifed him to bathe the affected limb only ; upon which they re- turned again, and with fuch violence, that the farther ufe of the waters was thought highly improper, and he left them off. During this time the fight of his left eye grew dim, which dimnefs increafed gradu- ally for fome little time, till he became quite blind of that eye; the bulb of it being confiderably enlarged, and thruft forward out of the orbit. For the moft part of the time he had been at Bath he had generally been very coftive; and upon leaving off the water, had no ftool for fome days; for which reafon a common clyf. ter was given, and produced fo profufe a difcharge of ferous matter, and continued for fo many hours, (almoft inceflantly) that he was reduced as low as poffible. K k 3 For502 AN ACCOUNT OF TUMOURS For fome time paft feveral fmall tumours had appeared in different parts of him, viz. five or fix on his head, two or three in his back, and one in the neck ; all lying juft under the Ikin, and fenfibly increafing every day till they came to a considerable nze« December the 2d, 1739, he returned to London* His chief complaints now were an exceffive languor, an inability to move his right hip and, when moved by another perfon, a very acute pain in it, an incapacity of lleeping when in bed* and an intenfe thirft in the night, with a quick hard pulfe. He now took the advice of Dr. Hartley and Dr. Shaw, who prefcribed him the cinnabar of antimony three times a day, to drink the Sel- ters waters, and keep to a cooling regimen; and allowed him a moderate dofe. of the pill Matthcei every night; by means of which he got fome ileep, of which he had for fome time been abfolutely deprived. When he had taken the cinnabar five or fix days, and during that time had no ftool, it was thought proper to give him a clyfter; which brought away all the medicine, with- out the leaft alteration j nor was there ever after 1WHICH RENDERED "THE BONES SOPT. 5O3 after this time any appearance of any mucus being fecreted by the inteftinal glands, he never going to ftool above once in a week, and then there Came away a few lumps of excre- ment as hard as pieces of wood* which were expelled with fuch labour and fatigue as can hardly be imagined, though he generally took an oily clyfter to render it more eafy, and warned down his medicines with a foapy draught. The joint of the hip was now become quite ftirT, all the inguinal glands being loaded with the fame kind of matter of which the other tumours feemed to be compofed; and a large clutter more of them might be felt under the glutei mufcles and behind the trochanter. The cinnabar was now left off, and mercu- rial unction propofed and conferited to; and ac- cordingly a proper quantity was rubbed in every night, flopping now and then to fee what turn it would take; and in this courfe he continued for more than a month, but without any benefit; nor did the mercury pro- duce any vifible effect on him. Sir Edward Hulfe, being called in, directed the burnt fponge, which he took for fome K k 4 time.504 AN ACCOUNT OF TUMOURS time, till growing worfe and weaker he de- termined to try Mr. Ward. He took his fweating and purging medi- cines two or three times, but found no fort of effe& from them; and being now quite tired of phytic, and reduced extremely low, he determined to pafs the reft of his time as ealily as he could, by gradually increasing his opiate; and in this manner languished, incapable of ftirring or helping himfelf, till the 2d of May, 1740, and then died. For a confiderable time before he died, he was nourifhed by fluids only: yet, as foon as ever they were received into the ftomach, in however fmall quantity, they gave him an acute pain at the bottom of his belly, juft above the pubis. For two months, or more, before his death, he could never make any water while he was up, but always made a good deal at different times when in bed. Soon after his return to London I opened the tumour I had taken out of his thigh two years before, and found the infide of it offified. Upon diffedion the hrft thing that offered itfelf was a large tumour on the fternum, which had been perceived about three months before heWHICH RENDERED THE BONES SOFT,. 505 he died : It was as large as a turkey's egg, and fo hard and immoveable, that I was in doubt whether it was upon or under the bone. Upon removing the Ikin, it appeared cover- ed by the expanfion of the tendons of the intercoftal mufcles, and the periofreum : this coat being taken off, it was of a fuetty kind of fubftance for about half an inch deep; and below this was a kind of cartilage intermixed with a great many bony particles. I then fhaved off all this difeafed body even with the furface of the reft of the fternum, but found no bone, it being quite diffolved and confound- ed with the mafs of matter that compofed the tumour, which was equally protuberant with- in the thorax, and compofed of the fame materials. Part of the fifth and feventh ribs were dif- folved in the fame manner into a kind of fuhky fiance between bone and cartilage, with'a thick coat of fteatomatous matter. Within the cavity of the thorax were thirty feven of thefe difeafed bodies, moft of them attached either to the vertebra: or the ribs; and wherever they were attached, the cortex of the bone was deftroyed, and its internal cellu- lar part filled with the difeafed matter. Immediately506 AN ACCOUNT OF TUMOI/R9 Immediately above the diaphragm was a large fcirrhous body, lying acrofs the fpine and the aorta, the latter of which lay in a finus formed in its lower part; it had no attachment to any other part, and weighed 13 ounces and a half; and from its fituation, I think, rauft have taken its rife from fome of the lympha* tic glands lying about the thoracic duel. From the origin of the aorta, from the heart quite up to the bafis of the cranium^ all the blood-veffels were furrounded with thefe fcir- rhous bodies, and the thyroid glandwzs difeafed in like manner, and bony within. On the left fide was another of thefe bodies, made out of the glandula renalis, weighing nine ounces three quarters. On the right, the glandula renalis was in a natural ftate; but the cellular membrane, which furrounds the kidney, was filled with a large clutter of thefe bodies of different fizes, fome of them entirely fuetty, others intermixed with bony particles. Three or four of them were attached to the body of the kidney, and thefe were a fort of cartilage, beginning to offify. The pancreas was quite fcirrhous and very large* One very large tumour fprung from the fpongy body of the third vertebra of the loins;WHICH RENDERED THE BONES SOFT. 50^ the bony texture of which was fo diflolved, and mixed with the matter of thet umour, that the knife paffed through it with great eafe. The inner fide of the os illum^ all the ifchium and pubis 1 were covered with thefe appearan- ces ; and upon removing them, the bone was found in the fame ftate as the Jiernum and ribs; the middle of the right os femoris was fur- rounded with a mafs of the fame matter, and the bone underneath in the fame ftate. In the bottom of the orbit, furrounded by the re&i mufcles, was a pretty large fteatoma, which occafioned the protufion of the eye; and, by preffing on the optic nerve, (in all probability) the blindnefs. INDEX,Wats JP&Oe n\INDEX. N. B. The Roman Numerals refer to the Volume, the Figures to the Page. ^BSCESSES near the anus, how they all came to be efteemed fiftulas, Vol. III. 77. See Fijlula. Mgylop, that ftage of the fiftula lachrymalis defcribed I. 299. Serjeant Wifeman's miftaken account of this difeafe, 306, note. Dr. Turner's, ibid. note. Amputation^ circumftances in fractured limbs that indicate the neceflity of the operation, I. 423. Not to "be de- ferred in defperate cafes on precarious expectations, 426. Some addrefs neceflary to fatisfy the patient of the ne- ceflity of parting with the limb, ibid. Is the only re- fource againft an approaching gangrene, 452. Never avails after a gangrene is commenced, ibid. Three ftages in a bad compound fracture, in which it may be neceflary, 458. Arguments in favour of, when circum- ftances dictate the operation, III. 373. Remarks on Mr. Bilguer's tract written to difcountenance the ope- ation, 377. Gafes in which amputation may become neceflary, 379. Compound fractures, ibid. A morti- fied limb, 388. Scrophulous joints, 389. Mr. Bilguer's recommendation of amputating at the hip joint, rather than in the thigh, confidered, 394, note. General charac- teriftics of an aneurifm, 396. The common operation for ineffectual, 398. Amputation the only known me- thodINDEX. thod of cure, 399. Objection confidered, ibid. A leg difordered by a burften artery, 401. The patient only to be faved by amputation, 402. Caries of the bones forming a limb, requires amputation, 403. Anatomy, the knowledge of, a principal caufe of the im- provements in furgery, II. 5. Ariel. M. account of the inftruments he employed in the fiftula lachrymalis, I. 309. Aneurifm, general characteriftic marks of, III. 396. The common operation for, ineffectual, 398. Amputation the only known method of cure, 399. Objection con- fidered, ibid. See Leg. Anus, cafe from the Memoirs of the French Academy, where, the whole was extirpated for a fiftula, III. 149, note. See Fiftula. Procidentia of, 193, E. bandages for a wounded head, remarks on, I. 214. For a fradured limb, 372, For an irreducible omental rup- ture, II. 75* Bark, Peruvian, its great power of refitting gangrenes and mortifications, III. 355- Excepting when beginning in . the toes, ibid., 359. Inftances of its proving fuccefsful combined with opium, 361. Belly, the external oblique mufcle of, the only one which has any opening in it, II. 14, note. Bertapal, his opinion in favour of trepanning, for fraftures in the cranium, I. H3> note' BUguer, Mr. remarks on his trait again!* the pra&ice of amputation, III. 377- Bladder, fpafmodic affeftions of, attending abfceffes near the re&um, how to be treated, III. 93. See Hernia tyftica, and Hernia veftca urinaria. Blood, extravafated, does not turn to pus, I. 36. Bout,J N D E X. Bone, rifing end of a broken one, the common notion of, and the means ufed to guard againft it, examined, It 418. Rendered foft by tumours, 449. Bone-fetting, the art of, profefled by the moft ignorant of men and women, I. 349. Examination of a judicial opinion in this cafe, 352. Brain, fymptoms of its being affeiSted by wounds that pierce, I. 19. Signs of a commotion of, from a fmart blow on the head, 50. See Cafes. Wounds of, hovy to be treated, 212, Extravafation of the circulating fluid, and commotion of the fubftance, fymptoms of, 223. Lofs of fenfe by commotion, and ,by extravafation, dif- tinguifhed, 227. General treatment of, 231. Circum- ftances which require a divifion of the dura mater, 242, Symptoms of a concuffion, 248. Different degrees of, 249. The only method of treatment, 252. Stages of the cure, ibid. Appearances that deftroy the hope of cure, 253. Breajl, remarks on the removal of, 448, 449, note, E. Bubo, venereal, its diftinction from a true hernia, II. 22? Bubonocele. See Rupture. > Callus of the bones, the nature of, explained, I. 380. The caufes of its producing deformity, 381. Cancers, character of the folanum as a medicine for, II. 289. Aredeemed incurable, III. 183. In the red-turn, 191,E. Cancer Scroti, a diforder peculiar to chimney fweepers, JII. 257. Danger of treating it as a venereal complaint, 258. The diftempered part to be removed, 259. Cancer quackery, the artifices of, expofed, II, 42c, note. Caries of the cranium, often produced in old or neglected ftages of venereal diforders, I. 108. This fpecies of caries incurable, 110. Of the bones forming a limb, only to be cured by amputation, III. 403. Of the joints, cauftics recommended in, 495, note, E. CarunculeINDEX. Caruncule of the eye, not the organ that fecretes the tears, I-. 277. Cafes, of a confiderable portion of the fcalp preferved, I. 9, note, E. Of contufions of the head, 66. Of the ex- foliation of both tables of the cranium from external violence, 113. Of fimple fractures, 173. Of deprefTed fractures, 216. Of extravafations in the brain, 255. Of fractures of the inner table of the fcull only, 266, 269. Of compound fracture, 440, note, E. Of a gangrene of the omentum in an old rupture, II. 60. Of hydroceles, 214} 229. Of the hydrocele in the tunica communis, 251. Of the encyfted hydrocele of the tunica communis, 254. Of a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis, 279, 294, 303. Of a haematocele, 354. Of a hydrocele formed in the fac of a true hernia, 374. Of a cirfocele 384. Of fcirrhous tefticles, 451. Of hydrocele cured by injection, III. 44, E. 59. E. Of the inefficacy ofexternals in hydrocele, 56.E. Of hemorrhoidal excrefcences, 198.E. Of omental ruptures, 270. Of inteftinal ruptures, 306. Of conge- nial ruptures, 319. Of inflammatory and other com- plaints attending, but independent of the ruptures, 330. Of hernia; veficx urinaria^ 347. Of an ovarian hernia, 352. Of the palfy in the lower limbs, 429. Of a fcro- phulous joint, 496, note, E. Of tumours rendering the bones foft, 499. Cajlration, when performed in time on a proper fubjedt, not a dangerous operation, II. 416. But no cure when a tefticle is become cancerous, ibid. Caution againft delays in fcirrhous cafes, 424. Circumftances which prohibit the attempt, 427. The ftate of the fpermatic chord, the principal objeft of confideration, 429- Method of per- forming the operation, 439. Cataplafms, why injurious to a ftrangulatecl hernia, II. 69. Recipe for a neat one, 333, note. Cotaratl,I N D E X. CataraR, the nature of this diforder not underftood fifty years ago, III. 21 r. Is a diftemper of the corpus cryf- tallinum, 212. What is generally underftood by its pro- grefs from immaturity to ripenefs, 213. Danger of at- tending to this opinion, 214. The confiftence of the cryftalline defcribed, 215. From what the antient diftinc- tions in this diforder arofe, 217, note. The mere colour of a cataract furnifhes no proof to judge of its confift- ence, 22 I. Objections to the operation of couching con- fidered, 224. The capfule of the cryftalline often found to have an unfufpedted fhare in a cataract, 229, note. Cataract cured by the needle without depreffion, 232. Will diffolve when detached from its natural nidus, 237. Cathartics, inquiry into the utility of, in ftrangulated her- nias, II. 70. III. 300. Cauftic, antient method of curing ruptures by, II. 160. Objections to it as a radical cure for the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis, 323. Improper for making openings for the fiftula in ano, III. 100. Cautery, antient mode of curing ruptures by, II. 158. Cellular membrane, capable of being rendered firm and com- pact by conftant preflure, II. 54. Celfus, his reafon againft trepanning a fractured cranium, I. 143. note. His account of the ufe of the ligature to unite the opening of an abfeefs to that of the rectum in the fiftula in ano, III. 126, note. Cerate, compofttion of that ufed at St. Bartholomew's hofpi- tal, I. 371. Chefelden, Mr. his recommendation of the cautery for per- forating the os unguis, examined, I. 338. His defcrip- tion of the mufcles of the belly erroneous, II. 14, note. His notion of the hernial fac corrected, 19. His account of the hydrocele, and the cure of it, erroneous, 182. note. Remarks on his method of treating the fiftula in ano, III. 130. Vol. III. L 1 Chimney1 N Tt E X. Chimney Jweepers peculiarly liable to a cancer in the fcro- turn III. 257. The Angular hardfhips of this clafs of people, 258. See Cancer Scroti. Cicuta, general opinion of its effects in fcirrhous and can- cerous cafes, II. 463. Cirfocele, defcription of that diforder, II. 382. Cafes of, 384. Clavicle^ broken, an erroneous treatment of, pointed out, I. 421- Cacum, or the beginning of the colon, a portion of, being contained in the hernial fac, frequently prevents the reduction of ruptures, II. 53. Concujfion of the brain. See Brain. Contra fijfures of the cranium, the antient idea of, examined* - I. 161. Contufions of the fcalp, fymptoms of, I. 23. Danger of miftaking the tumor produced, for a fracture, 24. On the dura mater, 27. Separation of the tables of the cranium by, 108. Cafes, 66, 113. Cortejiusy an advocate for perforating the futures of the head, when dictated by circumftances, I. 210. I Couching for the cataract, objections to the operation con- fidered, III. 224. Experiments, 233. Cranium, the feparation of a portion of both tables of, not unfrequent in old venereal diforders, I. 108. Cafes of exfoliation of both tables of the cranium, from external violence, 113. Fifliires and fractures of, without de- preffion, 122. The fymptoms of, defined, 124. Why trepanning is needful in fractures, 128. Antient mode of treating fractures of, 144. Defects of the antient chirurgical inftruments ufed in perforations, and remov- ing portions of bone, 145. Diagnoftic figns of a frac- tured cranium, fallacious, 156. Conclufions from the circumftances of the injury equally uncertain, 157. Proper mode of difcovery, ibid. Treatment, ibid. Inju- riesi index', nes in or under the frontal bone, fuppofcd to be eafier cured than in any other, 184. Reafons why they are, 10, ibid, note, E. The futures of, no obftru&ion to the extenfion of a fra&ure from one bone to the other, 19r. Fra&ures of, with depreflion, lgg. How treated by the antients, 201. Modern method, 202. Ufual confe- rences of fuch a deprefiion, 203* Circumftances which dictate a removal of the deprefled portion, 207. Cryjlalline of the eye, the confiftence of, defcribed, III. 215. The opacity of, no proof of induration, 2:7. De la Faye, Mr. remarks on his operation for the fiftula in ano, III. 132. And on his inftructions for the blind internal fiftula, 167. Definitions, clear and precife, the importance of, in fur- gery, III. 77. Diagnojlic figns of a fractured cranium, the fallacioufnefs of, I. 124, 156. Dionis, his definition of the true fiftula in ano, III. 171. Difeafes, the proper application of name3 to them, of great confequence in the art of furgery, III. 77. Dijlocations, the reduction of them by the antient furgeOns principally attempted by violence, I. 460. Knowledge and dexterity more fuccefsful than force, 462. The refiftance of the niufcles the chief objects of attention, ibid. Leading principles relating to luxations in gene- ral, 465. Errors in the popular methods of reduction pointed out, 471. The neceffary force in reduction, to be applied gradually, 475. Beft mode of extenfion in, 477, note, E. Dura mater, its intimate attachment to the infide of the fkull, and free communication by veflels with other parts, I. 27. How affected by external injuries, 30. Complaints produced by extravafation, 33. Symptoms L 1 2 attending;INDEX. evacuation, III. 89. *f" attending an inflamed jtate of the membranes, 34. The matter found on its furface not made from ex- travafated blood, 35. Opinion of French writers on contufions of the head controverted, 36. Inflammatory effects of contufion, 37. Progrefs of the diforder, 38. Contufions with a wounded fcalp, 43. Confequences of the blow being near a future, in a young fubject, 47. Contufions that claim an early regard, the leaft danger- ous, ibid. Erroneous opinions of its pulfatory motion, 53. Ill effects of this error in the treatment of con- tufions, 55. Importance of preventing the inflam- mation of, 58. Difcharge of matter coined under the cranium, how to be effected, 61. How to be treated when laid bare, by a perforation of the fkull, 64. Cafes, 66. How to form a judgment of the ftate of the dura mater before a perforation of the cranium, 167. Muft be laid bare to the extent of the depreflion, 207. The detachment of the pericranium from the fcull, without, generally attended by a detachment of the dura mater within, 239. A divifion of, fometimes neceffary, 242. Signs that indicate the neceflity of opening it, 246. E/fe, Mr. an advocate for cauftics in the cure of the hydrocele, III. 17. Reply to, 33. Embrocations, why injurious to a ftrangulated hernia, II. 69. Enterocek. See Rupture. Epididymis, defcription and ufe of this body, II. 411. How affected in venereal cafes, 412. Requires no manual operation in any, ibid. A fcirrhus fcldom commences in this part, ibid. Epiplocele. See Rupture. Eryfipelas, perfons affeaed with, unable to bear mucnINDEX. L 1 3 an Exfoliation from a cranium laid bare by external violence, as often produced by art as by nature, I. 15. Caufes of, 56, note. Extravafation, See Brain and Dura Mater. Eye, the origin of the lymph that moiftcns it, explained, I. 280. Its external organs defcribed, 283. Confiftence of the chryftalline explained, III. 215. See Cataraft. Fabritius ab Aquapmiente, account of the inftrument em- ployed by him in the fiftula lachrymalis, I. 312. His notion of perforating the os unguis, 332, note. His inftruftions for bandaging a fraftured limb, 379, note. True nature of the diforder called by him the hydro- farcocele, II. 397. His mode of cure, 400. Remarks cui, HI. 20. Faget, Mr. cafe related by him where the whole extremity of the inteftine was extirpated for a fiftula in ano, III. 149, note. Fallopius, his account of the indications of a contufed head, I. 39, note. His account of the hydrocele in the tunica communis, and in the tunica vaginalis teftis, II. 263, note. Fibula, confequences of its fracture, I. 408. Difficulties of fetting it, with the limb in an extended pofition, 41 r. Eafy reduction of it when the mufcles are in a ftate of relaxation, 412. Fiffures in the cranium, how diftinguifhed from fra£tures, I. 122. Contra-fiffures, the antient idea of, 161. Fiftula, antient idea of, III. 78. Their rafti treatment of diforders included under this name, 81. In ano, its various fymptoms, 82. Often extends its influence to the neighbouring parts, 83. Sometimes proceeds from the lues venerea, or cancerous complaints, and therefore requires a treatment adapted to the cafe, 87. If fromINDEX. an eryfipelatous inflammation, large evacuations im- proper, 89.. Spafmodic affections of the neck of the bladder, how to be treated, 93. A tenefmus, how re- lieved, 97. . Coftivenefs, ibid. The due treatment of thefe acceffory complaints, of great importance to the original difeafe, 98. The circumftances of the dis- order when the collected matter is ripe for difcharge, reduced to two general heads, 100. Cauftics improper to make openings for a difcharge, ibid. How to make the opening with a lancet, 102. The general method of dreffing, wrong, 105. The procefs of nature in fuch a cafe confidered, 107. When the inteftine requires opening into the abfcefs, no. Fanciful inftruments for this purpofe condemned, in. Proper dreffing, 114. State of the abfcefs when the collected matter has burn: its own way out, 121. Antient modes of cure in this cafe, 124, The proper rhethod of uniting the opening of the abfcefs into the rectum, by incifion, .127. Re- marks on.Mr, Chefelden's method, 129. Remarks on. Mr, De la Faye's operation, 132. Incifion fufficient without .excifion of fubftance, 137. Remarks on Mr. • Le Dran's method of operation, 139. The only dreffing neceffary on incifion, 144. If the wound affume an unfavourable appearance, the remedy muft be internal, 145. Inconfiftency in Mr, Le Dran's methods pointed out, 148. Inconveniences produced by excifion, 158. State of the cafe vvhen feveraj natural openings have been made, 160. Thefe feparate orifices generally all from one abfcefs, ibid. Proper treatment of them, 16 r. DiftincT: finufes very uncommon, 163. The blind in- ternal fiftula defcribed, i6£. An external opening to be made in this cafe, 167. Definition of the true filtula inano, 171. Two clafies cf, 172. The origin of the diforder to be firft attended to, hid. The neceffny chirurgica'INDEX. chirurgical operation that mould follow, 175. Fungous flefh, how to be reduced, 176. "Unfavourable cir- cumftances from injudicious treatment how to be re- moved, 177. Abfceffes about the lumbal vertebra: require medicinal care, 180. Cancerous fores in the neighbourhood of the re&um deemed incurable, 183. Fijlula lachrymal, the caufe and feat of this diforder erro- neoufly reprefented by antient writers, I. 277. Their methods of treating it, 279. Its true feat afcertained, and the modern intentions of cure explained, 280, 286. On what circumftances its various appearances depend, 287. Symptoms, ibid. Not fo often attended with an ulcer or abfcefs in the duel, as is imagined, 290. The purulent colour of the mucus, no neceffary fign of an ulcer, 291. That ftage of the diforder termed the perfect aegylops, defcribed, 299. A carious ftate of the bones, 300. The producing caufes of this diforder, 303. Different ftages of the diforder defcribed, 304. Confequences of endeavouring a fuppuration of the fuppofed abfcefs, 307. Account of the inftruments M. Anel employed in this difeafe, 309. Account of that ufed by Fabritius ab A.quapendente, 312>i Me- thods of treatment ufed by the French academy, 313. Proper treatment in the inflamed ftate, 316. The de- ftruction of the cyft to be guarded againft, 322. This fometimes effected without intention, ibid. Efcharotic dreflings therefore to be avoided, ibid. Proper appli- cations, 325. Great uncertainty in thefe. cafes, 326. When, and how an artificial paffage js to be made for the lachrj-mal fluid, 328. Ought hot to be performed by cautery, 335. The bed inftrument for this pur- pofe, 340. How to prevent the incarnation horn clofmg the orifice, 343. L 1 4 Fomentations., ♦INDEX. Fomentations, warm, why injurious to a ftrangulated her- nia, II. 69. Fr allures, the general doctrine of, how diftinguiftied, I. 353. The practice capable of confiderable improve- ments, 354. Remarks on the extenfion of fractured limbs, 357. Why putting the mufcles in a ftate of ten- fion is improper, 363. Why the os humeri is eafier fet than the os femoris, 364.. The proper conduct in the latter cafe, 367. The adhefive plaifter, why an im- proper application, 370. Compofition of the cerate ufed at St. Bartholemew's hofpkal, 371. The broken limb not to be moved until the fracture is united, ibid. Bandages, 372. Strong objections againft the ufe of rollers, 375. The eighteen-tailed bandage, the bsft for fimple fractures, 384. The difadvantages attending fplints, 389. Proper pofitions for a fractured limb, 392, 404, note, E. Fractures of the tibia and fibula, 406. Two kinds of, which do not admit of being reduced with a bent joint, 413. Fraclure, compound, the term explained, I. 422. Circum- flances that indicate the neceffity of amputation, 423. Mode of proceeding in attempts to prefer ve the limb, 427. In protrufions of the bone, 428. Applying the faw to the protruded bone frequently a wrong conduct, ibid. How to reduce the bone, 429. Detached bones to be removed, 430. The great objects of apprehenfion in compound fractures, 431. Neceflary dreflings, 434. Cataplafms unnecefiary without the limb is tumid and painful, 436. Danger of admitting air to, ibid, note, E. Antiphlogiftic regimen to be rigidly adhered to at firfi, 443. The three general events of a. compound frac- ture, and proper treatment, in each-, 444. How to proceed on inordinate difcharges of matter, 449. Gan- grenes and mortifications, how they originate, 451. IfT W tr Br X. If likely to take place, recourfe muft be had to imme- diate amputation, 452. But not after a gangrene has begun, ibid. Three points of time at which the oper- ation of amputation may become neceffary, Iff. 379. FraSivres of the cra nium, undeprefted, general confequences of, to the dura mater, I. 48, 129. The fymptoms of, defined, 124. Why trepanning is requifite in fuch cafes, 128. Antient method of treating, 145. Defects in the antient chirurgical inftruments for this purpofe, ibid. Fallacious experiments indicating fractures, 156. Con- 1 clufions from the circumftances of the injury, equally uncertain, 157. Proper means of difcovery, ibid. Beft method of fcalping, ibid. How to diftinguifJi a fracture from a future, 160. The antient doctrine of contra- hflures, fallacious, 161. Cafes of fimple fractures, 173. The courfe of, not interrupted by the futures of the cranium, 191.. Fractures of the cranium with depref- flon, 199. How treated by the antients, 201. Modem method, 202. Circumftances which dictate a removal of the deprefled portion of bone, 207. Cafes of fractures of the inner table of the fkull only, 266, 269. Freke^ Mr. the inftrument he called his commander, why a better inftrument in reducing luxations, than the common ambi, I. 473. His inftrument for dividing die rectum in the flftula in ano^ condemned, III. note. Galen-, his account of the ufe of the fcalpra in fractures of the cranium, I. 145, note. Gangrenes and. Mortification, in compound fractures, how they originate,. I. 451. If likely to take place, recourfe muft be immediately had to amputation, 452. Ampu- tation of no avail, when once begun, ibid. But nature may fometimes be aflifted in feparating the difeafed part from the found, ibid. Proper remedies while a gangrene isINDEX. ■ A. %1 Tl ,\ T is forming, 454. Scarification of no fervicc, 455, The uncertain time of apprehending gangrene in an incar- cerated rupture, II. 82. The operator to anticipate a gangrene, not to wait for it, 84. How to treat the omentum, if in an unfound flat?, 112. How to treat the inteftine if afFefted, 119. Sphacelated fpots on the furface-, of an inteftine no abfolute prohibition aeainft returning it, III. 343. Efficacy of the Peruvian bark in gangrenes and mortifications, 355. See Toes. Glandula lachrymalis, its office explained, I. 282. G/yJiers, ftirnulating, their efficacy in obftinate ruptures, II. 72. III. 30?. Gonorrhoea^ the difcharge from, not pus, I. 295. Gun Jhot woundsy the notion of their being of a poifonous nature from the fire, erroneous, I. 456. Are to be treated as contufed and lacerated wounds, ibid. 'HtfiKaioceky the different kinds of that diforder, II. 345. Origin of, ibid. Caftration not necefTary in this com- plaint, ' 349. The appearances if miftalcen and treated as a fimple hydrocele, 351. Cafes of, 354. Jiamorrhoidul excrefcencies defcri'bed, III. 189, E. How dif- tinguifhable from venereal ones, 191, E. How from cancerous, 192, E. Removal of, recommended, 194, E. How performed, 195, E. Cafes, 198, E. Heifler, his account of the incyfted hydrocele of the tunica communis, XI. 245, note. Remarks on his directions for the cure of the iimple hydrocele by incinon, 272, note. Remarks on his directions for treating the fiftula in ano, III. 153, note.. I-Lriua, congenial, how formed, IT. 138. Commences in infancy, 140. The application of a trufs when im- proper in, 142. Adhcfion of the parts more frequent in this, than in the common rupture, 144. Cafes of, combinedINDEX. combined with a hydrocele, 374. Circumftances ne* ceflary for the practitioner's confideration, III. 318. Cafes, 319. Hernia tyjiica, defcribed, It. 154- Hernia, female, defcribed, II. 129. The hernial fac to be opened with more caution than in men, 131. Why it is fo often fatal, ibid. Symptoms of a ftrangulated . rupture, 133. Hernia, femoral, the ftrudlure of the parts where it is formed, defcribed, II. 134. Method of performing the chirurgical operation for, 136. Neceflary cautions in the operation, ibid. Hernia foraminis ovalis, 153? note, E. Hernia humoralis, its diftindYion from a fcrotal hernia, II. 24. Hernia, incarcerated, fymptoms of, II. 79. Difficulty of determining the precife time for ufing the knife, 82. The nature of the operation confidered, 84. Critical time for attempting it, ibid. A gangrene is to be an- ticipated, not waited for, 85. Method of performing the operation, 87. Whether, the diforder be originally in the inteftine or not, inquiry into, III. 311. The fymptoms of, to be carefully diftinguifhed from thofe produced by inflammation, or fpafmodic affections of the fame part, 327. Hernia, inteftinal, fymptoms of, III. 296. The reduction of the inteftine, how to be attempted, 298. The propriety of cathartic medicines inquired into, 300. Stimulating medicines given per ano more efficacious and lefs dangerous, 303. Cafes, 306. Hernia, ovarian, cafe of, III. 352. Hernia, fcrotal, its origin, II. 16. Nature of the hernial fac explained, 18. Signs of this diforder, 21. Signs of the omental kind of hernia, 22. If both inteftinal and omental, ibid. How to be diftinguifhed from the venerealINDEX. venereal bubo, the hydrocele) and hernia humoralis, ibid. The teiHcle not to be felt in old ruptures, 23, note. The interline mofr. ufually found in a fcrotal hernia, 25. Vari ous appearances of the diforder under different cir- cumrtances, 26. Not often attended with hazard in infants, ibid. The principal danger to be apprehended in adult patients, 27. General rules for the treatment of this diforder, 28. When a reduction had better be unattempted, 29. Ufual confequences of a fudden hernia from effort or violence, ibid. An old omental hernia, how often rendered irreducible, 31. Strangu- lation of the gut in an inteftinal rupture, 32. An inteftinal rupture more hazardous than an omental, 34.. Origin and progrefs of the diforder, 40. Hernia, fpurious, difHnguifhed from the true rupture, II. 175. The feveral fpecies of, ibid. Hernia* ventral, what, II. 153. Hernia vejica urinaria^ defcribed, III. 346. Cafes of, 347- Hernialfac) the nature of, explained, IT. 17. Never re- turns into the belly of adult patients, 19. The caecum or the beginning of the colon being contained in it, renders ruptures difficult to be reduced, 52. How,to apply the knife to it, in incarcerated ruptures, 88. Hildanti^ his account of the hydrocele, II. i 8r, note. Hydrocele its diftinclion from a fcrotal hernia, II. 23. Defcription of the diforder, 178. Erroneous opinions as to the collections formed in the veffels, 179. Bad effects of thefe miftakes on practice, 184. Defcription of the fpermatic veffels, 186. Defcription of the teftes, 391. Origin of the diforder traced, 196. Cafes of> 199. Anaiarcous tumour of the fcroium, 208. Of the hydrocele in the cells of the tunica communis, 224 Cafes of, 229. The encyfted hydrocele of the tunica 1 communis,INDEX. 1 communis, 244. Cafes of, 251. Of the tunica vagi- nalis teftis, 262. Palliative method of cure, 297. Means for a radical cure, 311. Objections to the cure by incifion, 340, note, E. The haematocele, 344. A hydrocele formed in the fac of a true hernia, 374. Method of diftinguifhing this diforder from the intef- tinal hernia, or common rupture, III. 10. Review of the feveral methods pra&ifed for its cure, 13, 37. Inftruments made ufe of in the application of the feton, 28. Cure of by injection, 41, E. Cafes of, 44, E, 59, E. InefEcacy of externals in, 56, E. Cafes of, ibid. E. Hydro-farcocele, defcription of that diforder, II. 397. Incarcerated hernia, the nature and fymptoms of, explained, II. 64. See Hernia. Induration, remarks on thofe applications termed diffolvers °f» 11 • 33 3> mte- Inflammation of membranous parts, the utility of phle- botomy in preventing, I. 58. Injections, advantages of, in certain cafes, III. 42, E. Inftruments, antient, for perforating the cranium, their imperfections confidered, I. 145. Reduction of the number of, great part of the merit of modern furgery, 154. Their handles to be made as light as poflible, 155, note. Lachrymal gland, its office explained, I. 280. Le Dran, quotations from, concerning external injuries to the head, I. 32, 49, 51, 62, 125. His diftinction between the lofs of fenfe by commotion of the brain, and by extravafation of the fluid in, 227. His cafe of a returned rupture, which killed the patient by the ftricture of the neck of the fack, over a portion of the gut in the abdomen, II. 125. His defcription of the hydroceleI N D E • X. hydrocele of the cells of the tunica communis, 225, ndtt. And of that in the tunica vaginalis teftis, 269, note. Objections to his method of caftration, 442. Remarks on his operation for the fiftula in ano, III. 139. Ab- furdity in, pointed out, 148. Leg, defcription of a dangerous diforder produced by, or attended with, a burften artery, III. 401. Amputation* the only known method of faving the patient, 402. Ligaments of the joints, their nature and ufe, I. 463. Laceration of, in diflocations not dangerous, 466. Ligature, abfurdiry of ufmg it to open the inteftine into the abfcefs, in a fiftula in ano, III. 125. Lues venerea. See Cranium. Luxation. See Dijlocation. Mapp, Mrs. her extraordinary reputation and character, I. 350. Meekren, his correction of Fabritius ab Aquapendente in his defcription of the hydrocele, II. 405, note. Mercury, deftru£tive to the human conftitution, I. III. Monro, Dr. of Edinburgh, account of his methods of re- ducing ftrangulated hernias, II. 71, note. His hints for a radical cure of the hydrocele in the tunica vaginalis teftis, 317, note. Remarks on, III. 22. Morgagni, his idea of what are called contra-fifiures in the cranium, I. 163, note. His objections to perforation on extravafafrdh of fluids within, examined, 237. Mucin of the eye and other glandulous parts often of a purulent colour without proceeding from ulceration, I. 291. Diftinguiftied from pus, 292. Mrtfcles, ought not to be put in a ftate of tenfion to fet a fractured limb, I. 363. Nor in diflocations, 462. Of the belly defciibed, II. II. 7 ObliquusINDEX. Obliquns defcendens, the direction of the tendon of this mufcle defcribed, II. 92. The operation on it in incarcerated hernias, 93. The ftri&ure made by this tendon, the general caufe of ftrangulated ruptures, 94. An attention to this circumftance of importance to the operator, 96. The ftru&ure of the mufcle defcribed, 134- Ointment, character of an operofe one, recommended for reducing ftrangulated inteftines in a hernia, II. 70, note. Omental ruptures, caution againft the neglect of, II. 74. How to treat irreducible cafes, 75. Proper bandage for, 76. The chirurgical operation ought not to be performed on, 103. The general doftrine of them ex- amined, III. 263. The primary and fecondary evils attending them, 264. The ufe of truffes and bandages . to young fubjects, 268. Cafes which difcourage the , ufe of the ligature previous to extirpation, 289. Omentum., that part of it comprefled in the neck of a her- nial fac, formed into a hard carnous body, taking the figure of the paffage, II. 54. Cafe of a gangrene of, 60. How to be treated in the operation if found to be in a gangrenous ftate, 113. Objections to taking it away by ligature, 116. The fafeft method of taking it away, 119. Opium, its. efficacy in retentions of urine of a fpafmodic nature, III. 94, note. When joined with purgatives, is fucCcfsful in inteftinal ruptures, 302, note. Suc- cefsful inftances of its flopping a mortification in the toes, 361, 362. Oribafius, his account of the ancient method of taking away portions of a fraftured cranium by terebrsc, I. 147, note. His remarks on bandages for the head, 215, note. His figns of recovery or. death in wounds of the brain, 254?INDEX. 254, note. His obfervations on fplints for fractured limbs, 388, note. Os femoris, fractured, a capital error in the mode of fetting it, pointed out, I. 365. The proper conduct on fuch an occafion, 367. Due pofition of the limb, 395. Os humeri, fractured, why eafier fet than other bones, I. 364- Os unguis, when a perforation of this bone is neceflary in the fiftula lachrymalis, I. 329. Ought not to be per- formed by cautery, 336. Examination of Mr. Che- felden's opinion in this point, 338. The beft inftru- ment for the operation, 340. Ojcheocele. See Rupture. Palfy of the lower limbs, defcription of the diforder, HI. 417. Symptoms of it in infants, ibid. In adults, 418. Diftinction of this diforder from a common nervous . palfy, 419. The curvature of the fpine that accom- panies it, defcribed, 420. Progrefs of the diforder, 421. Confiderations drawn from obfervation, 424. Circum- ftances obferved by examination after death, 427. Hint derived from Hippocrates, of its cure by an abfcefs in the loins, 429. Cafes of its cure by procuring fimilar difcharges, ibid. Method of operation, 434. Infe- rences as to the nature of the diforder, 450. See Ufe- lefs State of the lower Limbs. Patella, the fracture of, requires a ftraight pofition of the leg, on the fame principle that other fractures require a bent pofition of the limb, L 413. Inquiry into the caufe of the rigidity of the joint that fometimes enfues, 414. Remarks on, 416, note, E. Pericranium, the fpontaneous detachment of from the fcull, in confequence of a blow, a pofitive indication for the operation of trepanning, I. 239. Peritoneum,INDEX. Vol. III. M m Quackery Peritoneum, that membrane of the belly defcribed, II. 14. The hernial fac, what, 17. Phlebotomy, its importance in preventing inflammations in membranous parts, I. 58, 178. Its utility in the reduc- tion of ruptures, II. 68. Phlegmon, in the antient furgery, the term explained,- III. 82. Phyma in the antient furgery, what, III. 83. Pillows, objections to the ufe of, in fractured limbs, 40^, note, E. Plaijler, adhefive, why improper for a fractured limb, I. 370. Pneumatocle, or windy rupture, no fuch diforder in a living body, II. 177, 382. Polypus, of the nofe, the nature of that diforder confidered, III. 243. Not always an object of chirurgical treat- ment, 245. Marks of thofe which ought to be left unattempted, 246. Marks of thofe fit for extraction, 248. Two kinds of ihofe fit for extraction diftinguifh- ed, 249. Practical inferences refpecting them, 250. Haemorrhages feldom to be apprehended from the operation, 251. Attempts for deftroying them by cfcharotics and medicated fetons, condemned, 253. Objections to introducing the inftrument through the mouth for polypi falling backward, 255. Cautions to young practitioners, 256. Puncla lachrymalia, their office explained, I. 284. Punclum aureum, account of the antient method of curing ruptures by, II. 164. Punclure, wounds of the head by, their different degrees and methods of cure, I. 17. In chirurgical operations fafer than incifions in membranous parts, II. 213. Pus and mucus, too often confounded with each other, I. 291. Diftinguiflied, ibid.INDEX. Quackery in furgery, the prevalence of, expofed, I. 349, II. 420, note. The general policy of the profeflors, III. 119. Their fuccefs, the work of nature, 120. Read, Sir William, his remarks on the operation of couch- ing for the cataract, III. 232, note. Reftum, cancers of, III. 191, E. Protrufion of, 193, E. Regimen, antiphlogiftic, to be rigidly adhered to at firft, in compound fractures, I. 443. Richer, his account of the operation of extracting the chryftalline humour for a cataract, III. 233> note. Rollers, arguments againft the application of them to fractured limbs, I. 375, 441. RoyalJlitcb, account of the antient method of curing rup- tures by, II. 165. Rupture, fometimes a dangerous diforder, but generally the caufe of groundlefs apprehenfions, II. 3. And hence expofe the patients to the depredations of quacks, ibid. If taken in time not a profitable diforder to the furgeon, 4. The term defined, 9. The different fpecies of the diforder diftinguifhed, 10. The fcro^al hernia, how occauoned, ibid. The external oblique mufcle of the belly, the only one which has any opening in it, 14, note. The peritoneum defcribed, 14. The tu- nica vaginalis teitis defcribed, 15. Origin of the fcrotal hernia, 16. The hernial fac defcribed, 17. See Hernia. The cure of ruptures either palliative or perfect, 35. Dilingenuity of patients, 37. The perfea cure de- pends on nature, 38. The futility of pretended fpecific remedies expofed, 40. General conclufions, 43. Four claflesof circumftances diftinguifned, 45. The neglect of in proper time, the foundation of future mifchief, 46. Steel truffes capable of being worn by all ages, ibid. CautionsINDEX. M m 2 The Cautions refpecting the ufe of them, 47. The little inconvenience fometimes attending old ruptures, occa- fions a dangerous careleffnefs in the patient, 48. Irre- ducible ruptures, 52. A portion of the oecum or colon being contained in the fac prevents reduction, ibid. Induration of the fac, or of its contents, 53. Adhefion of the parts, 55. Cautions to the patients, 56. The quiet ftate of a hernia, no fecurity for its fafety, 57. Examination of an old irreducible hernia after death, 58, note. Reafons why the reduction of a rupture deemed incurable, ought to be judicioufly attempted, 59. Ruptures of difficult and hazardous reduction, 64. Symptoms of, ibid. How to take off the ftricture of the paflage, 65. The reduction how to be attempted, 66. Efficacy of bleeding in, 68. Fomentations and cata- plafms rather hurtful than advantageous, 69. Inquiry into the merit of cathartics, 70. Tobacco glyfters, 72. Punctures of the gut through the tumid fcrotum con- demned, 73. Circumftances attending ftrictures, ibid. Caution againft the neglect of omental ruptures, 74. Ruptures that call for chirurgical operation, 78. Dan- gers of ftrangulation, 79. Symptoms of an incarcerated hernia, ibid. Difficulty of determining the precife time for ufing. the knife, 82. The nature of the operation confidered, 83. The critical time for performing it, 84. A gangrene is to be anticipated, not waited for, .87. Method of performing the operation, ihidt 105. The ftrangulated hernia not an original difordcr in the gut, 94, but from the ftricture of the tendon, ibid. Symptoms of a fudden rupture that confirm this opinion, 97. Appearance of the parts after opening, 105. Cautions in the reduction, ibid. Crural rupture, what, 134. Nature of the congenial hernia, 138. Exom- phalos, 146. Attempts towards a radical cure, 156.INDEX. The feveral methods recommended by the old furgeons, 158. True and falfe hernia; diftinguifhed, 177. For the feveral fpecies of ruptures, fee under Hernia, Omentum, and the following article. Rupture, umbilical, what, II. 146. Its peculiar incon- venience to women, 147. Methods of cure by ligature, 149. Cure by bandage in young fubjeels, 150. The operation by the knife very hazardous, 151. Rupture doctors, their proper reward fometimes miftaken, II. 56, note. Ruyfcb, a follower of Fabritius ab Aquapendente in his method of treating the hydrocele, III. 20. Sacculus, lachrymalis, its office explained, j. 284. Is the feat of the diforder termed fiflula lachrymalis, which fee, 286. Sarcocele, the venereal, how to be treated, II. 279. Dis- tinctions in this diforder among the antient furgeons, 388. Defcription of, 389. Various appearances of 391. Errors in the theory of the diforder pointed out, 393. Signs of a fcirrhous teftiele, 397. Diftinctions between a fcirrhous tefiicle and a fimple hydrocele, 398. The hydro-farcocele, 399. Methods of cure, 414. Cavitation, when performed in time upon a proper fub- ject, not a dangerous operation, 416. Scalp, its various parts fpecified, I. 4. The injuries to which it is liable, 5. Lacerated wounds in, 6. De- tached portions of the fcalp^ whether to be removed or preferved, ibid. Reafons for endeavouring their pre- fervation, 9. Circumftances to be confidered in this cafe, jo. When a future-may be properly ufed, ibid. Caution reflecting the attempt of re-uniting the fepa- rated parts, 12. Confequences when a perfect union does not take place, 13. Proper treatment in fuch cafes,INDEX. 7 radical pnfes, 14. Exfoliation as often produced by art as by nature, f 5. When the re-union of detached parts of the fcalp is not to be, attempted, 16. Wounds by puncture, 17. Symptoms of the cellular membrane only, being affected, ibid. Method of cure, 18. Re- marks on, 2r, note, E. Symptoms of the brain and its membranes being affected, 19. Method of cure, 22. Contufions, 23. Danger of miftaking the tumor produced for a fracture, 24. Four kinds of tumor in- cident to the fcalp from wounds or bruifes, 25. See Cafes. Scalping, in fractures, the proper method of performing, L 158. Scarification, of no fervice in flopping a tendency to mor- tification, I. 455. Is an indefinite term, II. 211. Schenkius, his account of the hydrocele, II. 180, note. His account of a miftaken farcocele cured by caftration, 399, note. Scijors, general objection to the ufe of, in chirurgicaj operations, III. iif, Scrophulous joints, hint propofed for the treatment of, III. 440, 495, note, E. Cafe of^ 496, note, E. Defcrip- tion and progrefs of the diforder, 390. Amputation when necefTary, 393. Scrotal hernia. See Hernia. Scrotum and its parts defcribed, II. 207. Anafarcous tu- mor of, ibid. The watery fwelling of, not derived from the cavity of the belly, 208. Short account of this dif- order, 2P9. Two methods of difcharge in ufe, 212. Cafes in which the whole fcrotum was caft off by gan- grene, 214. The watery fwelling in, confidered under three diftinftions, 223. See Cancer Scroti. Seton, the belt method of producing that degree of in- flammation required to caufe an adhefion between the tunica vaginalis teftis, and the tunica albuginea, for aINDEX, 5 radical cure of the hydrocele, II. 318, note, 343, III. 24. Inftruments ufed in-the application of, 28. Effect of the operation, 30, The method juftified againft the objections of Mr. Elfe, 33. Skin, found, as much as poffible fliould always be pre- ferved, 441, note, E. 449, note, E. Solanum, general effects of this medicine defcribed, II. 289. Spermatic chord, the difeafed ffate of, an' abfolute prohi- bition againft the operation of caftration in fcirrhous cafes, II. 429. How to form a judgment of it, 430. Spermatic vejjels, defcription of, in reference to the hy- drocele, II. 186. Spine, defcription of that curvature of, accompanying a palfy in the lower limbs, III. 420. Is the firft obvious fymptom of the diforder, 421. See Ufelefs State of the lower Limbs. Splints, remarks on the ufe of them for fractured limbs, I. 387, 441. Strangury, attending abfceffes near the rectum, how to be treated, III. 93. Suppuration, the ait of nature, and always beft executed when fhe is leaft difturbed, I. 324. Surgery, common or practical, deferving of more attention than is ufually paid to it, I. 274. Hafte in operations cenfured, 275. Danger of paying too great deference to antient opinions, 355. Difference between the an- tient and modern, ftated, II. 4. Bad effects of erro- neous notions of diforders on practice, 183. Brutality of the antient furgeons^ 336, note. III. 373. Suture, when proper to be ufed in a lacerated wound of the fcalp, I. 1 r. Sutures of the cranium, no obftruilion to the extenfion of fractures from one bone to the other, L 191. The trephine not to be fet upon a future if it can be avoided,INDEX. 192. Circumftances in which fuch reftrictions are to be difregarded, 210. Swellings, white. See Scrophulous Joints. Tears, not fecreted by the caruncle of the eye, I. 280. Their origin explained, 282. Tenefmus, attending inflammatory defluxions on the parts about the redlum, how to be relieved, III. 97. Te/licles, uncertain time of their defcent from the belly, II. 140. Defcription of, 191. Origin of the diforder called the hydrocele, ig6. Cafes of a hydrocele, where one of the tefticles had never defcended into the fcrotum, 199. An indurated fcirrhous tefticle diftinguiihed from a hydrocele in the tunica vaginalis teftis, 27a. State of the tefticle in the latter cafe, 276. The true vene- real farcocele, and the fcirrhous tefticle, require dif- ferent treatment, 277. Operation on the tunica vagi- nalis-, to obtain a difcharge of the water, defcribed. 298. Remarks on Serjeant Wifeman's caution againft the pun&ure in adults, 302. Remarks on thofe appli- cations termed difiblvers of induration, and removers of obftru£Hons, 333, note. A fcirrhous tefticle not pro- duced by a Ample hydrocele, 396. Signs of a fcirrhous tefticle, 397. Diftin&ions between this cafe, and a fimple hydrocele, 398. Defcription of the hydro-far- cocele, ibid. Miftakes of antient writers on this fub- je&, pointed out, 406. Defcription of the epididymis, ' 411. Caftration not a dangerous operation when per- formed in time upon a proper fubjecT:, 416. But is no cure when a tefticle is become cancerous, ibid. Caution againft delays in fcirrhous cafes, 423. Circumftances which prohibit the attempt, 427. The ftate of the fpermatic chord the principal objeft of confideration, 429. Caftration how performed, 439. Cafes of fcir- rhousI k D E X* ihous tefticles, 451. Their natural fituation in the fcrotum defcribed, III. 6. The diforders Of, ill un- derftood by the antient furgeons, 17. Theodoric^ his account of the effects of a contufed head, I. 40. note. Tibia, the nature arid important ufe of that bone, It 409. Circumftances attending its fracture, 408. TinRnres, fpirituous, the application of to a bare bone, tends to produce exfoliation, L 15. "Tobacco glyfters* the fmoke or infufion^ efficacy ofj in ruptured cafes, III. 303* The infufion how made* 304* note. Toes, that kind of mortification beginning in, generally incurable* III. 355. Firft appearance and fymptoms of, 356. Progrefs of, 357. Common method of treat- ment, 358* The bark unfuccefsful in flopping it, 359. Efficacy of opium in this cafe, 361. Propofed altera- tions in the chirurgic treatment of the diforder, 365. The removal of the mortified toes, an ufelefs and painful operation, 370* Trephine, the propriety of applying it in certain doubtful cafes inquired into, I. 61. Efpecially neceflary in gun- fhot wounds, even though the fcull fhould not be broken, 63. See Cafes. Why neceflary to be ufed in fimple fractures of the cranium, 128. Ought not to be too long deferred, 131. Reafons why the alitient fur- geons were unwilling to perforate the bone, 146. Ar- gument againfl iron handles to thefe inftruments, 155, note. Why preferable to the trepan, 158, note. Ought to be fixed immediately over the fracture, 164. The crown or faw fhould not be too fmall, ibid. 'Circum- ftances to determine the number of perforations, 165. Ought not to be fet upon a future if it can be con- veniently avoided, 192, Application of to a fractured craniumI N D E X. cranium accompanied with depreflion, 202. Antient reftricYions as to parts to which it ought to be applied, when to be difregarded, 210. Trochar, curved, method of perforating the os unguis with, I. 340. TruJJes, their operation in ruptures explained, II. 43. Steel, may be worn at all ages, 46. Cautions refpe&ing the ufe of them, 47. Danger attending their not fitting truly, 48. The neceflity of ufing a trufs not often taken . away by the chirurgical operation, 103. When improper in the congenial rupture, 142, * Tumors, produced by contufions of the fcalp, danger of miftaking them for fractures, I. 24. Four kinds of, from injuries to the fcalp, diftinguifhed, 25. See Cafes. Tumors, fcirrhous and cancerous, from external violence, their nature confidered, II. 418, note. Extirpation proper, but not always effectual, 420, note. Why cauftics are generally preferred to the knife, ibid. note. Why they are really worfe, 421, note. Rendering the bones foft, 499. Tunica communis, defcription of this membrane, II. 224. A hydrocele in the cells of, how produced, 225. The true nature of this diforder, not generally underftood, 226. Symptoms of, 227. Cafes of, 229. The encyfted hydro- cele of, 244. Modes of cure in infants and in adults, 251.. Cafes of, ibid. Tunica vaginalis teftis, that membrane defcribed, II. 15. Origin of the fcrotal hernia, 16. Hydrocele of, 262. Symptoms, 265. Cafes of, 279. Cafes of the difper- fvon of a confirmed hydrocele, 294. The palliative and radical methods of cure, 297. Operation for difcharging the water defcribed, 298. Means for a radical cute, 311. The feton the beft method, 318, note. Cure by ca'uftie, and by incifion, 322. Objections to the cauftic, 323. The preference due to incifion, 327. Method of ope- Vol. III. N n * ration,I D E X.' ration, 329. Is an. object of choice rather than of necef- fity, 339. Objections to the tent, 342. And to the can- nula, 343. Advantages of the feton, ibid. Ufes of the lymph between this membrane and the tunica albuginea, III. Confequences of a failure or redundancy of this fecretion, 8. Turner, Dr. Daniel, his miftaken account of the aegylopsj I. 306, note. His method of treating the fiftula in ano, III. J 25, nott. Van Swieten, baron, his advice to defer amputation in defperate cafes, unadvifed and dangerous, I. 425, note. Varicocele, feldom an original diforder, II. 177, 382. Venereal difeafe, in old or neglected ftages, often produces a feparation of a portion of both tables of the cranium, I. 108. This kind of caries incurable, no. The con- tinued ufe of mercury after the lues is cured, fatal to the conftitution, in. Sometimes produces a fiftula lachry- malis, 301. Venereal excrefcences, how differing from hemorrhoidal, III. 191, E. Umbilical Rupture. See Rupture. Urethra, caution to be obferved in the cure of ftricliures of, L 32c, note. Urine, a retention of, when attending abfcefles near the rectum, how to be treated, III. 93. Efficacy of opium in, 94, note. Ufelefs ftate of the lower limbs, farther remarks on, III. 447. Succefs of the propofed method of cure, 449. Defcription of the difeafe,- 450. Its diftinclion from pajfy, 451. Beginning and progrefs in a child, 453. In aV adult, 455. True Caufe of the difeafe, a morbid ftate of the fpine, 457. Nature of the curvature, 459. Arms as well as legs affeded, ibid, note. Inefficacy of variousINDEX. various means, and pieces of machinery, 461, 462* Manner in which the bones are affe&ed, 461. The morbid ftate of the fpine the caufe as well of the cur- vature as of the other fyrnptoms, 466, and note. Bones affe&ed, not enlarged, but eroded, 468, note. Method of cure fimple, confifting only in procuring a fuiiicient drain, 471. Time required for relief very various, 474. Progrefs of the cure, 475. Deformity remaining, 478. Caufe of the difeafe a fcrophulous indifpofition, 482. Various affe&ions of the fpine, ibid. Concluding obfer- vations, 484. Wifeman, Mr. Serjeant, his miftaken account of the a?gy- lops, I. 306, note. Remarks on his account of inftru- ments for extenfion in fractured limbs, 357, note* Words, bad confequence of annexing falfe ideas to them, I. 418. Wound:, lacerated, of the fcalp, how to be treated, I. 6. By puncture, 17. Contufions, 23. Of the brain, 212, THE -END*Plate 1 to 6 at the end of the Work, before the Index* DIRECTIONS to the BINDER for placing the CUTS. Vol. h Head of the Author to face the Title. The Plate marked A at the bottom to face P. 149. B C D E F 384- 408. 202. «53- 155- Vol. II. G H I K 9< 262. 369- 298. Vol. III. L 29* M - - 112. N - - 242-I « m