17 THYROID GLAND, MEDICAL SECTION in the first place, consider some general rules of living, which should, as far as possible, be followed in all active cases of Graves' disease. We will consider what is most suitable for a well-developed active case, with moderate goitre, distinct exophthalmos, nervousness, tremors, and a pulse-rate of 120 or more. At the commence- ment of treatment, in some cases it is a good plan to confine the patient to bed altogether for a fortnight or three weeks; in milder cases this is not necessary. Throughout any course of treatment, at least twelve out of the twenty-four hours should be spent in bed. It is advisable, therefore, for the patient to be in bed by 10 p.m., to breakfast in bed at 9 a.m., and to rise not earlier than 10 a.m. As many of the remaining twelve hours of the day as possible should be spent in the open air. During the summer months in this country eight to ten hours may be spent with advantage out of doors. Even in cold weather outdoor life is well borne, as cases of exophthalmic goitre do not feel the cold and rarely catch cold. Most of the time passed out of doors should be spent lying down on a couch or deck-chair in an open shelter or ver- andah, much in the same manner as in the out- door treatment of phthisis. A short walk of a quarter of a mile each morning and afternoon may be taken at first, and the distance gradually increased, as improvement takes place, to a mile or more twice a day. Drives in an open carriage in the country may also be taken several times a week, but the patient should not drive herself. Many of those who suffer from exophthalmic goitre have previously led very active lives, and may at first find this inactivity trying, but it is remarkable how soon they appreciate its advan- tages. Cases of exophthalmic goitre should not be allowed to walk in a town, or attend public meetings or gatherings of any kind, as such always have a harmful effect upon them. They may, however, with advantage receive a few friends at home, but should always be relieved from any social duties or pleasures which prove in any way irksome. Reading may be allowed, but the print must not be too small. Music also may help to relieve the monotony of the treatment. As the course of exophthalmic goitre is often slow and protracted, this quiet life must in some cases be continued for two or three years, or even longer. As a rule, however, marked im- provement takes place in the course of one or two years, so that the stringency of the rules laid down may be gradually relaxed. The early months of the year may with advantage be spent on the south coast of England ; Hastings, Bourne- mouth, and the Isle of Wight are suitable places. The health resorts of southern Europe entail a long journey, which is not advisable, at any rate for cases in which the symptoms are active. Dur- ing the summer and autumn some quiet place in the country or at the seaside should be selected. VOL. X Ordinary diet, as a rule, is all that is necessary, but it may with advantage be supplemented by one glass of milk taken at 11 a.m. and another at bed-time. Local treatment of the goitre should always be carried out and continued for a long period. A piece of the red iodide of mercury ointment about the size of a pea should be rubbed into the skin over the goitre each night till the skin is reddened, and afterwards every other night. In some cases it is better to use the ointment of half the usual strength. On the whole, the most useful drugs are belladonna, convallaria, arsenic, the bromides, and iron if there is anaemia. Tincture of belladonna should be given in doses sufficiently large to produce slight dryness of the mouth and throat; in some of my cases, however, it has proved so disagreeable to the patient that it had to be discontinued. The digitalis group of drugs have but little effect in diminishing the pulse-rate ; the most useful member is tincture of convallaria in doses of 5 to 10 minims in cases in which the palpita- tion is troublesome and the pulse very frequent. When the general nervousness and tremor are excessive the bromides may be given with ad- vantage. In many cases a prolonged course of arsenic in small doses, such as 5 minims of liquor arsenicalis, twice or thrice daily after meals, has greatly improved the condition of the patient. The arsenic may be combined with any of the drugs mentioned, according to the nature of the symptoms present. The thymus gland has been used in many cases; it may be given in five-grain tablets, three to six of which may be taken daily. Opinions differ as to its utility. Dr. Hector Mackenzie has seen no good effects in twenty carefully observed cases. Favourable results have, however, been observed by others; and in one of my cases, who took three dried thymus tablets each day for nine months, the pulse-rate, which varied from 132 to 143, gradually fell to 84, the goitre dis- appeared entirely, the tremor became much less, and the exophthalmos was diminished. The further course of the case has not been followed, as she ceased coming to the hospital. In other cases improvement has also been observed, but not to such a marked extent. Sodium phosphate, which may be given in doses of twenty to sixty grains two or three times a day, has been found useful by Trachew- sky and by Kocher. The glycerophosphate is preferred by some, and may be given in five or ten grain doses or as the compound syrup. Certain acute symptoms at times may develop and require special treatment. Severe attacks of palpitation, in which the heart beats 150 to 200 times a minute, should be met by complete- rest in bed and the application of an ice-bag to the prsecordial area. Persistent vomiting is a serious and in some cases fatal complication ; it should be treated by rest in bed and rectal 9