266 URIC ACID there is a marked increase in the amount of uric acid excreted, both absolute and relative to the urea. This transformation can take place outside the organism, as for example when spleen or any tissvie rich in nucleins is kept in contact with oxygenated blood at body temperature. A rise in uric acid excretion after a meal free from nucleins is probably due to an increased nuclein metabolism in the tissues {e.g. digestion leuco- cytosis). Horbaczewski was the first to refer to endo- genous sources of uric acid. He drew attention to a possible connection between inci'ease in number of leucocytes and increased uric acid production, but his conclusion that all forms of leucocytosis are accompanied by this viric acid rise is certainly incoiTect. Leucocytosis accompanies pathological conditions of the most diverse nature, so that it was scarcely reasonable to expect that their effect on metabolism would be the same. One would expect that if the rise were due to the purin derivable from the nucleins present in the leucocytes, this would be most marked when the number of leucocytes was falling. One would also expect that a rise in P2O5 would accompany the increased purin excretion, seeing that the former must be set free after nuclein disintegration, and this does not occur in all cases, e.g. leucocythsemia. That variations in the absolute number of leucocytes in the body, or more likely alterations in the metabolism of the white blood corpuscles, oc- curring with or apart from an absolute increase in their number, may affect the purin excretion is, however, very probable, and that the purin- holding foodstuffs do so is undoubted. The excretion of uric acid in gout is a subject vipon which opinions differ greatly, and the reader must be referred to the special article on " Gout." The difficulties that are met with in trying to discover the significance of an alteration in the amount of uric acid excreted are intel- ligible when one remembers that there may be an increased production of uric acid with no effect on the excretion, because it may be broken up into urea in the liver, or the variations in the quantity excreted may simply be due to a more rapid or slow removal by the kidneys. Uricacidaemia or Uricacid- emia. — The presence of uric acid in the blood in such amount as can be demonstrated; the possible but not the probable cause of gout. See Uric Acid ; Gout ; etc. Uricedin. — A proprietary preparation recommended in gout; it contains sulphate chloride, and citrate of sodium, and some potassium and calcium salts. Urinal.—A vessel for the reception or for the inspection of urine ; also a convenient place, in cities, public buildings, etc., in which urine can be passed. See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases {Extroversion of the Bladder, Non- Operative Treatment); Sewage and Drainage (Water Closets). Urinalysis.—The chemical testing of the urine. See Urine, Pathological Changes in. Urinary.—Belonging to the urine or to the organs which secrete, transmit, or store it up. See Urination ; Urine, Pathological Changes in ; Bladder ; Kidneys ; Urethra ; etc. Urination, Disorders of. Incontinence of Urine in Children . 266 Dysuria in Children .... 267 Increased Frequency of Micturition in Adults . . ... 267 Incontinence in Adults . . . 268 Retention of Urine .... 268 Anuria 269 See also Micturition ; Neurasthenia {Clini- cal Features); Urine, Pathological Changes IN; etc. Incontinence in Children.—In the physio- logical act of micturition the natural stimulus and evacuation of the bladder is a degree of mechanical distention of the organ. When this reaches a certain degree afferent impulses pass through the spinal cord and the brain, which in turn sends out efferent impulses to the bladder, bringing into play the natural muscular mechanism which effects the expulsion of urine. After the third year of life the urine may be held during sleep for eight or nine hours, and at other times for two or three hours. If a child cannot control his bladder during his waking hours by the time he has reached his third year he may be regarded as suffering from incontinence (Thomson). Incontinence may be due to— 1. Some defect in the wall of the bladder or urinary passage in any part of its course. 2. An alteration in the character of the urine, or 3. A change in the nervous mechanism which governs micturition. Enuresis due to Defect in the Bladder or Urinary Apparatus.—This may be due to some malformation, e.g. a small meatus, extroversion of the bladder, epispadias, or hypospadias. Long or adherent prepuce is also a common caiise, and among rarer conditions we find polypoid growths in the bladder or at the urethral orifice. Cystitis is not a common affection in children, but when present always gives rise to incontinence of urine. Included in this category also is the atonic condition of the sphincter of the bladder which may be present in any acute or chronic debilitating illness. Intestinal worms and scybalous masses in the bowel may also determine increased frequency