YELLOW FEVER 592 At St. Louis in 1900 the case-mortality at the beginning was 72'2 per cent. When the out- break was at its height it fell to 49*2, and in the period of decline to 40 per cent. It occasionally happens, however, that the disease is mild at the commencement, and increases in virulence as the epidemy declines. In most outbreaks abortive cases occur, marked by gastric troubles, headache, loin pains, and slight icterus. It has been observed that these mild attacks do not always confer an immunity. It has often been asserted that dogs, birds, and other animals suffer from symptoms analogous to those of yellow fever, when that disease is epidemic. This requires confirmation. Yellow Fever as a Ship Disease. — Special interest attaches to ship outbreaks, both from the part which maritime commerce plays in the diffusion of yellow fever, as well as from the fact that the manner in which it is propagated often admits of being more closely followed on board ship than on land. 1. Ships are particularly liable to become infected. This is partly explained by the sus- ceptibility of those on board, and partly by the habits of sailors, which lead them to frequent the most insanitary localities on shore. Still, we should hardly have expected that a disease propagated by mosquitoes should have shown that special predilection for shipping. Old wooden vessels often fall into an extremely insanitary condition, especially those engaged in the sugar, coal, and timber trades, and these are just the vessels most liable to become infected. Sailing vessels are often detained in the tropics by calms and contrary winds for weeks after leaving a yellow fever port, and this, no doubt, favours the outbreak of the disease. 2. Ship outbreaks often prove extremely fatal, especially in the case of crowded ships of war, where isolation and disinfection cannot effectively be carried out. Not to mention exceptional instances, it has been no uncommon experience of ships of war in comparatively recent times to lose during a short voyage one-half or one-third of their men by yellow fever. The JiJde7i in 1829 lost 110 out of 160; the Ban7i in 1823 had 99 attacks and 33 deaths among 107 whites, while none of the 27 negroes on board suffered. The African in 1881 lost 18 out of 28, and La Fan-tuna in 1856 had 118 seizures and 56 deaths out of an effective of 212 men. In some few instances where the crew has numbered from 5 to 10 all on board have perished. 3. The virus of yellow fever often clings to a vessel with extreme tenacity. The Eclair ship of war was infected in July 1845, and notwithstanding efforts at disinfection she carried the disease with her to England in September, and com- municated it to the pilot and several others who had to board her. She lost during the voyage about 60 out of 140 men. After wintering and undergoing repairs and cleaning in England, yellow fever once more broke out on board in the following year when the vessel entered the tropics. Still more remarkable is the case of the United States cruiser Plymouth, in which yellow fever reappeared after she had been disarmed, dis- charged, exposed during the winter to a mean temperature of 28° F., scraped, twice fumigated with sulphurous acid, and washed with chloride of lime. On dismantling the vessel a second time, flies were found between the boardings which had survived the cold and fumigations to which the vessel had been exposed. But it is somewhat difficult to believe that mosquitoes, so sensitive to cold, and whose term of life does not appear to exceed seventy-five days, could have survived the cold for so long a period. 4. A vessel on which the disease has once ap- peared often proves highly infectious as soon as the holds are opened, and although fresh cases may have ceased to occur among the passengers for a considerable time. The history of the Anne-Marie is of peculiar interest in its bearings on many questions connected with the etiology of yellow fever, as the facts were investigated with a thoroughness and recorded with a pre- cision that give them the value of a scientific experiment. The following account is condensed from the original report:— The Anne-Marie, an old wooden vessel, laden with sugar, left Havana on the 13th of June with a crew of sixteen, and arrived at St. Nazaire (France) on the 25th of July 1861, having had nine cases and two deaths from yellow fever during the voyage. The first case appeared on the eighteenth and the last on the twenty-ninth day after leaving Havana, where yellow fever then prevailed. As no fresh case had occurred for thirteen days the vessel was admitted to pratique, the crew discharged, and seventeen labourers belonging to the port en- gaged to unload her. None of the crew of the infected vessel took ill after landing, and there is no very clear evidence of their having com- municated the disease on shore. The work of unloading began on the 27th July, and was finished on the 3rd of August. All the labourers engaged in this work were infected, and nine died; the first case occurring on the sixth and the last on the twelfth day after the work of discharging began. Four of the sick labourers returned to their homes in the country, six to ten kilometres distant from St. Nazaire. They were attended by a local practitioner, Dr. Chaillon, who had never been near the infected vessel. He continued to visit them for eight days. Two days after his last visit (that is, ten days after his first contact with the patients) he was seized with yellow fever and died. A stonecutter working on the quay about 600 feet to the leeward of the vessel, but who had neither visited the ship nor had any intercourse with those on board, was attacked on the 4th of August and died. The