177 TYPHOID FEVER MELiENA {Causes); Meninges of the Cerebrum {Simple Meningitis, Causes, Diagnosis); Mental Deficiency {Accidental, Post-Febrile); Milk {Pathological); Nephritis {Etiology) ; Nerves, Peripheral {Neuritis, Causes); Nerves, Mul- tiple Peripheral Neuritis {Etiology); Nose, Diseases of Nasal Orifices and Septum {Per- foration of Septum, Causes); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation of {Etiology); Ovaries, Diseases of the {Haemorrhage, Causes); Par- otid Gland, Disorders of {Inflammation, Secondary); Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis, General {Etiology); Pneumonia {Bacterio- logical, Pneumococciis and Typhoid Bacillus); Pneumonia, Clinical {Etiology); Pregnancy, Intra-utbrine Diseases of the Foetus {Infec- tious Fevers); Purpura {Symptomatic); Scrotum AND Testicle, Diseases of the {Orchitis, Typhoid); Septicemia {Diagnosis); Sewage AND Drainage; Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Oysters, Typhoid); Spine, Surgical Affections of {Typhoid Spine); Syphilis {Secondary, Typhoidal State); Therapeutics, Serum-Therapy {Anti-enteric Serum); Toxi- cology {Shell-fish); Tropics, Unclassed Fevers OF {Bastard Typhoid) ; Undulant Fever {Synonyms); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Fevers, Typhoid, Albuminuria); Urine, Bac- teria IN {Typhoid Fever); Water {Diseases due to Impure Water). Synonyms : Abdominal Typhus; Enteric Fever ; Gastric Fever ; Seven-Day Fever, etc. Definition.—A continued fever caused by the entry of a specific micro-organism—the baciUus typhosus—or of poisons arising from it—into the blood ; anatomically characterised by hyper- plasia, and usually ulceration of Peyer's glands, enlargement of spleen and of mesenteric glands ; clinically manifested by some or all of the following symptoms : —Pyrexia, roseolous erup- tion, enlargement of spleen, evidences of general toxEemia, and symptoms due to local lesions situated for the most part in the intestinal and mesenteric glands. Geographical Distribution.—It is endemic in Great Britain, but is lessening in frequency under the influence of improved hygienic con- ditions. It is met with throughout Europe, Asia, Africa, and America. Etiology.—Discussion as to the proximate cause of typhoid fever has become superfluous since the discovery by Eberth in 1880 of the specific bacillus typhosus. This organism has been found in the spleen, the mesenteric glands, the lymphoid tissue of the intestines, the medulla of bones, the kidneys, the liver, the roseolous eruption, and in the blood of the dead and of living subjects of typhoid fever; it has also been detected in the placental blood, and in the organs of the new-born foetus of a mother affected with the disease. It abounds in the typhoid stools during the VOL. X first fortnight of the malady, sometimes per- sisting throughout convalescence; it is to be found in a considerable percentage of cases in the urine after the first few days, frequently in the bile, and probably also in the sweat and the sputa. It is found in the pus from some, but not all, abscesses occurring in the course of the fever, and it may persist in such abscesses for even years after the disease. Characters of the Bacillus.—The bacillus is 2-3 jj. in length and 1-8 /x in thickness, longer and thicker than the typical bacillus coli, to which it bears a close resemblance ; when stained shows ten to twenty-four wavy flagellse, longer than the bacillus itself; the termination may show a glistening rounded body, really retracted protoplasm—in cultivations it is single ; often in chains. Though readily distinguishable microscopically from the typical bacillus coli there are many forms of the latter greatly re- sembling the bacillus typhosus. Cultivations grow in the ordinary nutritive media, and rapidly develop in milk, beef-tea, or butter. The bacilli are killed when exposed to a tem- perature of 60° C. for even twenty minutes, but several observers have seen cultures of the bacilli in beef-tea alive for weeks at a freezing temperature, and they preserve their vitality in ice. They usually soon disappear from ordinary water, but have been found in it, as in the Maidstone epidemic of 1897. They usually soon die in typhoid stools, but may remain alive for months in sterilised stools ; experiments of Andrews showed they rapidly die out if planted in sewage. They retain their vitality under suitable con- ditions for months or years, even when dried, which supports the supposition that the disease may be transmitted by dust. Mode of Infection is mainly through the ali- mentary canal; and the most common carrier of the poison is infected drinking water from wells or streams, or pollution of a general system of water supply. Instances of epidemics which were clearly traced to the water supply are numerous, the latest example on a large scale in England being the Maidstone epidemic of 1897, in which the water supply of a certain area was contaminated by surface drainage. Many so-called "milk epidemics" are due to water used to clean the cans or to dilute the milk. Milk is a favourable medium for the growth of the bacillus, and many attacks due to milk infection are recorded. Food.—Oysters eaten raw may certainly act as carriers of the poison, and the germs have been found in them derived from the water in which they are fattened; epidemics have been described due to other shell-fish ; the disease may be conveyed by vegetables eaten uncooked. There is accumulating evidence that the disease 12