355 UTERUS, NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE gestion of the rectal mucous membrane and haemorrhoids. Pressure on the pelvic nerves leads to various neuralgise, and especially to one form of pseudo-sciatica. Indeed, pain in the course of this nerve and its branches should always lead to careful examination of all the pelvic organs. Pressure on the ovaries and tubes, especially when they are prolapsed, pro- duces a peculiarly sickening and intolerable pain. It also probably leads to many of the diseased conditions of these organs which are found in connection with fibroids. When the fibroid has risen into the abdomen, pressure on the bladder more frequently causes incontinence than retention, and is often a great source of trouble and annoyance. The presence of a large fibroid in the abdomen affects the bowels, the liver, and other organs by the limitation of space and distortion of relations. Flatulent distension is sometimes specially distressing. 3. Rapid increase in the size of the tumour, especially when combined with pain, is one of the most important indications for operation. These symptoms arise in cases where the tumour is undergoing necrotic, suppurative, oedematous, myxomatous, cystic, sarcomatous, or carcino- matous change. The rapid increase in size is generally accompanied by constitutional symp- toms, such as rise of temperature and pulse, with other signs of distress, and when the tumour is gravely degenerate the classical signs of septicsemia will usually develop. . 4. The coexistence of pregnancy, though it does not invariably necessitate operation, is a very grave complication, the mortality being esti- mated at 36 per cent, including the cases in which spontaneous miscarriage occurs. Preg- nancy must be considered both as an absolute and as a relative indication for operation. It is an absolute indication when, from the position of the tumour, delivery per vias naturales is impossible owing to mechanical obstruction, also when severe pressure symptoms develop. In some of the cases of retroverted gravid uterus plus fibroids with pressure symptoms, it may be possible to push the mass out of the pelvis, and, by posture aided by a suitable pessary, to retain it above the brim until the danger of incarceration is passed. Such an attempt at reposition must be made with great gentleness and caution, for many surgeons have reported cases where a rapidly fatal result followed successful attempts at reposition—death under these circumstances being caused by contusion of the tumour or by torsion of its pedicle. The coexistence of pregnancy and fibroids is a relative indication for operation, when mechani- cal obstruction is not feared, but where, from the position of the tumour, or from its size, the risks of parturition, whether premature or at full term, are great. The risks of haemorrhage before, during, and after delivery must be con- sidered ; also the risks of injury to the tumour and consequent increased liability to septic infection. Operations on fibroids during pregnancy do not always involve premature delivery nor the loss of the foetus. In many cases of subserous fibroids removal can be effected with little or no injury to the uterus, and the mere fact of opening the abdomen seldom interferes with the normal course of gestation. In some cases hysterectomy may be indicated early in preg- nancy, but only when the mother's life is ob- viously in danger. In another group of cases the operation can be postponed until full term. The child is then delivered by Csesarean section, the uterus being removed or retained as seems most desirable in each case. See valuable papers by Cullingworth and Bland Sutton. 5. Other complications, some such as appendi- citis, suppuration of ovaries or tubes, ovarian cysts, extra-uterine gestation, carcinoma of the body or cervix, are clear indications for opera- tion in themselves apart from the coexistence of fibroids. Some complications, such as dis- placement of the uterus, phlebitis, and throm- bosis, heart-disease, insanity, and other nervous disorders, need careful consideration. Such factors as the patient's position in life, her ability to earn her living, and her general health, would count for much in these more doubtful cases. 6. Degenerations of Fibroids.—Of these the sarcomatous, suppurative, necrotic, gangrenous, cystic, and oedematous forms must be accepted as absolute indications for removal of the uterus and the tumour, unless the patient's general con- dition is so bad as to prohibit operation. Cal- careous and fatty degenerations are sometimes absolute, sometimes relative indications, while the involution changes after parturition or the menopause, being conservative, do not call for surgical interference. 7. Inability to work in the case of women who must earn their living is generally accepted as an indication for operation, and surely it must be conceded that a woman, whose happi- ness and usefulness depend on her activity, has a right to demand relief when she prefers the risk of operation to the death in life of a " sofa existence." 8. Another indication which must weigh with sui'geons is the misery inflicted by a large, heavy, and disfiguring tumour, which interferes with both the duties and pleasures of life, and excites much painful comment, and sometimes injurious suspicion. Fibro-Cystic Tumours of the Uterus {see ante, p. 354). Polypi of the Uterus The term uterine polypus simply denotes the pediculation of a mass with relation to the cavity of the uterus, and gives no information as to its