378 UTERUS: ASSOCIATED INSANITY typhoid, erysipelas, boils, etc., and it is probable in many of these cases recovering after opera- tion, that the recovery was due as much to the reaction following the shock of the operation as to the actual benefit acci'uing from the surgical interference. Just at the end of the period of functional activity, and before the actual climacteric falls due, one occasionally meets cases of insanity known as "ovarian" or "old maid's insanity." Dr. Clouston says : " There is really no definite proof that the ovaries are either disturbed in function or diseased in structure in these cases. . . . The disease usually occurs in luiprepos- sessing old maids, often of a religious life, who have been severely virtuous in thought, word, and deed, and on whom nature, just before the climacteric, takes revenge for a too absolute repression of all the manifestations of sex by arousing a grotesque and baseless passion for some casual acquaintance of the other sex, whom the victim believes to be deeply in love with her. . . . Usually her clergyman is the subject of this false belief. Out of several such cases which I can recall, seven have had clergy- men as their supposed wooers or seducers. In no case was there the very slightest possible ground for the notion." 3. Mental Symptoms frequently coincident with the Period of the Climacteric. — Climacteric melancholia is the classical form of mental disease to which predisposed and neurotic women are liable at the period of arrest of sexual function and uterine involution. Short of actual insanity, there also exist at this period many mental symptoms closely allied to the psychoneurosis of adolescence and the period of fully developed functional activity, with this diff'erence, that whereas the neuroses of adol- escence and adult life are not invariably of a depressing nature, the neuroses of the climac- teric are depressing and are characterised by depression of spirits, deficient motor power, loss of the love of life, weakening of the social instincts, jealousies, and perverted sexual ideas. The delusion known as " pseudocyesis," or false pregnancy, is said to be common at this period of life in women. As a delusion among the insane I have seen it just as frequently in men as in women, and Dr. Clouston tells me he has very rarely seen it in private practice. 4. Mental Symptoms the Result of Operations {Ovariotomy, Hysterectomy). — Evidence as to the effect of gynecological operations upon the mental condition of patients so operated upon is very conflicting. In nine years I have only seen two cases of acute mania which were appa- rently due to removal of the appendages on both sides. Both women were nervous subjects of below thirty years of age, and both recovered. It is recorded that out of 483 women operated upon by Dr. Savage of Birmingham, in whom he removed the appendages on both sides, four became insane. Dr. Keith, apparently, is of the opinion that removal of the ovaries alone does not produce any mental change, but re- moval of the uterus as well as both ovaries was followed by insanity in 6 cases out of 64. Lawson Tait stated that he had never seen a case of insanity follow hysterectomy, but, on the other hand, he had actually seen insanity cured and relief from neurotic symptoms follow upon operative procedure for diseases of the reproductive organs. Utricle or UtriCUlUS.—The uterus masculinus, sinus pocularis, or prostatic utricle (utriculus prostaticus) is the little cavity (Lat. utriculus, a little leather bottle) which communi- cates with the prostatic part of the urethra and lies in the substance of the prostate gland; it represents the posterior ends of the Miillerian ducts fused together ; also, a pai"t of the mem- branous labyrinth of the internal ear. Uva. Ursi.—Bearberry leaves or the dried leaves of Arctostaphylos tiva-ursi (Uvce Ursi Folia), act as a diuretic medicine and have also an astringent and disinfectant effect on the urinary tract, which is of value in cystitis, especially the gonorrhceal variety; they con- tain arbutin {C„^il^oOn), a glucoside which yields hydroqiiinone and glucose, ericolin, urson, and tannic and gallic acids; they must not be prescribed with iron, salts of silver and lead, with alkaloids, or with gelatin; there is one official preparation, the i7ifusum uvce ursi (dose, I to 1 fl. oz.). See Diuretics ; Pharmacology ; Prkscribixg; etc. Uvea..—The choroid coat of the eye, or the iris, ciliary body, and choroid membrane, taken together; uveitis is usually regarded as synony- mous with iritis. See Choroid, Diseases of (Irido-Cho7-oiditis); Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Congenital Abnormalities of the Iris, Ectropion of the Uveal Pigment). Uvula, Diseases of. Malformations . . . . .378 Uvulitis, Acute ..... 379 ,, Chronic ..... 379 Elongation of Uvula .... 379 ]^ew Groivths ...... 379 Paralysis . . . . ■ .379 See also Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {SequelcB, Facial Paralysis with Deflection of the Uvula); Facial Nerve, Paralysis of {Symp- toms, Palate); Nose, Examination of {Posterior Phinoscopic View, Uvula); Pharynx, Examina- tion of the ; Pharynx, Chronic Pharyngitis. Malforntations of the uvula are not uncommon. Occasionally it is congenitally absent, though more frequently its absence is due to destruc- tion from ulceration. More or less completely bifid uvula is very common ; or two distinct