563 XANTHOMA endocardium, and larger arteries. The genital region, palate, oesophagus, spleen, trachea, and cornea have all been recognised as seats of the disease. Papular and tubercular lesions may coexist with the plain lesions above de- scribed, and scarcely differ from the latter save in a greater development. The lesions are whitish or yellowish papules, plaques, and tubercles, circumscribed in contour, covered with an unaltered epidermis, and determinable by palpation as having greater consistence than the flat macules. In rare cases the tubercles may coalesce to form sessile or pedunculated tumours, which are firmer as a rule than the smaller lesions (Hyde). In some cases the disease is accompanied by a general yellowish discoloration of the skin. Disfigurement is the chief symptom complained of. Occasionally pricking sensations are present. The etiology of the disease is quite vmknown. The pathology, according to Chambard, is as follows:—There are two processes going on, an increase of con- nective tissue and a fatty degeneration or de- position, the results of a chronic inflammatory process, in the soft plaques the fatty change, and in the nodules the connective tissue growth predominates, being greatest in the larger and firmer ones. The diagnosis is easy if regard is had to the peculiar yellowish or saffron-like hue of xan- thoma. Multiple dermoid cysts may simulate. Treatment. — Erasion and excision are the usual methods of treatment. Electrolysis is of great service in some cases ; and various caustic applications have been recommended. Xanthoma Diabeticorum. — This is an ex- tremely rare affection. It is very fully de- scribed by Crocker, from whose description the following account is given. The eruption con- sists of dull red discrete or confluent papules quite firm to the touch, from a line to a quarter of an inch in diameter, well defined at the margin and roundish or obtusely conical. On the top of many of them, but not of all, is a yellowish or yellowish-white head, which looks like a pustule, but is really solid, and some of the papules are dotted or streaked with red from dilated vessels; a red areola is sometimes seen. Itching, pricking, or tenderness is gener- ally felt in the lesions. The most common situations are the buttocks, elbows, and knees, where they are generally confluent, and may form tumours, though the papular origin is gener- ally still discernible. They have also been seen on the trunk, on the extensor surfaces generally, on the mucous membrane of the mouth, on the face, scalp, and bend of the ankles. The erup- tion comes out rather suddenly at first upon the extensor aspect of the limbs, especially the forearms, and then more gradually in other parts ; after remaining stationary for some time —months or even years—the papules begin to disappear, leaving no trace behind tliem, or while some disappear others come out; or again they may disappear entirely for a time and then break out once more. Etiology. — Males are affected much more than females. The disease is one of adult life. Most cases are accompanied by true diabetes mellitus. Pathology.—The diseased process is anatomi- cally of the same nature as ordinary nodular xanthoma, but with more inflammatory phen- omena and less connective tissue growth. With regard to its pathogeny, in diabetes as in jaun- dice, disorder of the liver exists, but the clinical facts show that derangement short of that neces- sary to produce either diabetes or jaundice may yet produce xanthoma. Diagnosis.—Those who sejjarate this form of xanthoma from all others base the difference be- tween them upon the following points (Hyde):— 1. In xanthoma of glycosuria the sudden evolution and involution of the cutaneous lesions. 2. The firmness and solidity of the latter as distinguished from the softness of the ordinary forms. 3. The inflammatory cliaracter of the glyco- suric as distinguished from the hypertrophic changes in the other variety. On the other hand, some authorities urge that the glycosuria is simply an initiatory cause, which explains the differing symptoms of xan- thoma in tlie two classes of cases. Surveying the literature of xanthoma, they find patients without diabetic symptoms suffering from atrocious pruritus and most of the special features claimed as peculiar to diabetic xanthoma of glycosuria. The general conclusion arrived at is that it is difficult to determine what are the relations, if any, between these two forms of xanthoma. Tlie treatment of the disease, medicinal and dietetic, is mainly that of glycosuria. Xanthoproteic—Related to xantho- protein (a yellowish substance produced by the action of nitric acid on proteids); the xantho- proteic test or reaction is the fact that an orange colour is produced when ammonia is added to a protein heated with nitric acid. See Physiology, Protoplasm {Products of Decom- position). Xanthopsia.—Yellow vision, as in cases of jaundice. See Jaundice {Symptoms, Yellow Vision). Xanthosis. — A morbid condition in which the skin or a mucous membrane has a dirty yellow colour, as in cases of carcinoma and in chronic inflammation of the nose. See Nose, Chronic Inflammation {Xanthosis). **Xaxa."—Acetyl-salicylic acid as prepared by Burroughs Wellcome & Co. ; dose, 5 to 20