TUMOURS 164 The symptoms of this form of phantom tumour are briefly these : a woman will fancy she is pregnant or suffering from a tumour, and states that her abdomen has been gradually increasing in size. These cases rarely give rise to difficulty. When the abdomen is submitted to physical examination, it will be found everywhere re- sonant, and loud intestinal gurgling is usually present; by cautiously engaging the patient in conversation during the manipulation, the belly may be pressed quite flat. In such a case the age gives important indications, especially when the woman has passed the menopause. Again, in younger women, the other signs of pregnancy, such as enlargement of the breasts, morning- sickness, increase in the size of the uterus, and amenorrhosa, are usually wanting. If after a physical examination the surgeon still feels in doubt, an anaesthetic will decide the question; as the patient becomes un- conscious the abdomen diminishes in size until it becomes quite flat, as she returns to conscious- ness the abdominal distension reappears. Phantom tumour occurs more especially in sterile women who have married late in life, and in women who have a morbid desire for pregnancy. It is occasionally met with in women who have borne children, and now and then in young wives. Sometimes it is seen in women who have subjected themselves to illicit intercourse and fear the results. Smollett furnishes an admirable description of spurious pregnancy occurring in an elderly woman, in his account of the supposed preg- nancy of Mrs Trunnion [Peregrine Pickle, chap. X.). A remarkable case is recorded by Havelock. The patient was seduced, and, becoming alarmed at the possibility of pregnancy, fell into a state of religious ecstasy. The rest of the family, consisting of four adolescent sons, and four daughters and the parents, fell into an ecstatic condition and remained so many days. Eventually they came to their senses, but the girl was retained in the asylum. She had many signs of pregnancy : amenorrhoea for several months, milky fluid could be expressed from the breast, and the areolse were altered. Gradually the mental condition improved and the signs of pregnancy disappeared {Obstet. Trans. Ed., vol. xix. p. 183). As to the cause of the singular mimicry no good explanation is forthcoming ; conditions resembling it have been reported in the ass, and are not uncommon in petted bitches. It is difficult to understand how this condition could be mistaken for an abdominal tumour, yet more than one case has been recorded in which the abdomen was opened to remove the supposed tumour. In 1824, Lizars performed abdominal section in order to remove a supposed ovarian tumour, and was surprised to find only fat and distended intestines. This was in 1824, and with the accumulated experience of three-quarters of a century to guide them, this error is even now occasionally committed by surgeons. Phantom tumour is occasionally imitated by intermitting hydronephrosis, movable kidneys, and ovarian and parovarian cysts when they burst. Tumours, Inoperable, Treat- ment of. General Management . . . .165 Special Therapeutics .... 167 Diet 167 Drugs ...... 167 Bacterio-Therajiy . . . .167 Serum-Thera2:)y . . . .167 OrganO'Therapy . . . .167 Photo-Therapy 168 Electricity . . . . .168 Treatment of Inoperable Tumours.—It is not often that a simple or benign tumour is beyond removal, and when it is so, it seldom endangers life, being only a source of disfigurement and inconvenience by reason of its bulk. Conse- quently, this article has to deal entirely with those neoplasms known as malignant, the chief varieties of which are the Carcinomata and the Sarcomata, the former composed of a type of cell essentially epithelial, and the latter of em- bryonic connective tissue. Unsatisfactory as is our present knowledge of the etiology of new growths, there is very general unanimity of opinion in the profession that early and wide excision by the surgeon's knife is the proper treatment of those of a malignant nature, special attention being directed in the case of the carcino- mata to the removal of affected lymphatic nodes and vessels. This tendency to involve the ad- jacent lymphatics is characteristic of the rela- tions of carcinomatous growths to the surround- ing tissues. The latter seem unable to offer any resistance to them, so that all the structures and organs of the body, the bones, the blood- vessels, the nerves, the air-passages, the different parts of the alimentary canal, and the various vis- cera are affected by them. Absorption, pressure, ulceration, and metastasis are the agencies con- stantly at work, so that it is not surprising that tumours are frequently met with that are in- operable owing either to the existence of internal visceral or glandular deposits, or of external growths in inaccessible positions, or of great weakness and exhaustion on the part of the patient. Such cases are the most distressing that can be met with. Of recent years it is an en- couraging fact that they are attracting the attention they are very properly entitled to, not only on the ground of humanity, but also because they afford an excellent field of scientific research in connection with the etiology of malignant disease.