UTERUS, DISPLACEMENTS OF THE 335 of the skin on one side through the restored sphincter, to be brought out at the edge on the opposite side with the object of supporting the parts. This suture may be cut short and may remain as a permanent buried suture. The further stages of the operation consist in bring- ing all the rawed surfaces together. This again is best accomplished by the continuous suture of catgut in the same way as described in the previous operation. Ventral Fixation.—In order that this opera- tion may be of any service in the treatment of prolapse, the uterus must be firmly fixed in the abdominal parietes. The uterus is drawn up into the abdominal wound, two stitches are inserted through it to the depth of about a quarter inch on its posterior aspect, immediately below the fundus, with the object of keep- ing it in anteversion, so that intra-abdominal pressure may be exerted on the posterior or upper surface of the organ. The material may be either silk, silkworm gut, or chromi- cised catgut. Many operators will doubtless prefer a non-absorbable material where such a firm fixation is required. The opei'ation should be limited to those cases in which pregnancy is impossible. Intra-peritoneal Shortening of the Round Ligaments.—This operation consists in doub ling up from two to four inches of the round ligament on each side and uniting it by sutures. The shortening thus produced keeps the fundus uteri towards the front. It will be well in this operation to use a non-absorbable suture. Operations for the restoration of the utero- sicral ligaments may be accomplished—-(a) By the method of Jessett. He describes the operation thus; "In cases of complete pro- cidentia, in which the peritoneum in Douglas's pouch is prolonged quite through the vulva, the sacro-uterine ligaments, which have become much elongated, should be restored by drawing up the posterior fornix of the vagina, and fixing the peritoneum covering it to the posterior wall of the uterus and to the parietal peritoneum lining the sacrum. If necessary a fold or tuck may be made in each broad ligament, and in cases of cystocele the bladder may be drawn up and stitched to the peritoneum covering the uterus " {British Gynce- cological Journal, May 1901, pp. 29, 30). (6) Another method is that of Bishop. He says: "The technique of the operation, as I have carried it out, is briefly this. The pro- trusion being reduced the patient is placed in the extreme Trendelenburg position, and the abdominal wall is opened by a median incision. As soon as the intestines have sunk away from the pelvis towards the diaphragm, two threads are passed through the broad ligaments, one on either side of the uterus, enclosing tube and round ligament; the ends of these threads are tied, and by them as tractors the fundus of the viterus is drawn forwards. A special sound is passed by an assistant into the vagina, and made to press up towards the posterior fornix so as to render it prominent. On either side a stout, thick thread is passed vertically through the substance of the fornix, avoiding the mucous lining, so that each protruding end is half an inch distant from the other, and the whole loop half to three-quarters of an inch from the cervix. The fornix is now applied to the sacrum, and a spot is chosen directly opposite, free from vessels and subjacent nerves and ureter, and well outside the rectum, where the needle carry- ing this suture is entered deeply so as to em- FlG. 6.—Retroversion of the uterus. brace the periosteum covering the bone ; it is brought out again half an inch directly above its point of entrance. Before tying this suture a narrow strip of peritoneum is removed from that portion of the fornix which lies in its grip, so as to bare the connective tissue beneath. This is repeated on the opposite side; the sutures are tied, and their ends cut short. Sometimes the position of the rectum will only permit of single fixation. This should then be more central in its position as regards the uterus, and somewhat broader. The new liga- ment or ligaments are now formed, and the cervix hangs in its normal position from the sacrum by that portion of the vagina which lies between it and the sutures" (Medical Press, 24th December 1902).