YELLOW FEVER 590 sirable that the experiments be repeated in a country fi'ee from yellow fever. That the disease following the bite of the infected mosquitoes was true yellow fever hardly admits of a doubt. As these investiga- tions have been conducted by competent and responsible men, and carried out with reason- able care, it may be accepted as proved that yellow fever is communicable by mosquitoes fed on yellow fever blood. Further, as the mos- quito is incapable, according to these observa- tions, of communicating the disease for ten or twelve days after feeding, the insect cannot act as a simple transporter and inoculator of the virus, but as a host of the parasite, which must be supposed to undergo either multiplication or development in the culex, in a manner ana- logous, perhaps, to that which takes place in the case of the parasite of malaria in the anopheles. Hitherto the parasite of yellow fever, whether bacterial or protozoal, has not been discovered either in the mosquito or in the blood of the patient, although the latter has been examined microscopically, times without number, by the most skilled observers furnished with the best appliances. The infective blood does not contain any microbe that can be grown on any ordinary medium. Carter has shown that when a yellow fever patient is introduced into a place previously free from the disease, an interval of ten to twenty days usually elapses before the occur- rence of secondary cases. ^ This fact finds an apparently satisfactory explanation in the cir- cumstance, that about twelve days are neces- sary for the mosquito to become infectious. An infected house or ship on this hypothesis will mean one in which contaminated mosquitoes are present. We shall have occasion, however, to point out in the sequel that instances are on record in which the interval between the primary and secondary cases has been consider- ably less than twelve days. It may also be noted in passing, that Kermorgant, in his account of the epidemic at Senegal in 1900, expressly says: " Quand I'epidemie a com- mence a Dakar, il n'y avait pas de moustiques." This, perhaps, should not be taken quite liter- ally, for mosquitoes are never altogether absent from these regions. Admitting, then, that the mosquito transmits yellow fever, many points will have to be worked out before we can hope for much light on the etiology and prophylaxis of the disease. Is the Stegomya fasciata the only mosquito capable of communicating yellow fever ? Does the insect transmit the infection to its progeny ? Can the mosquito become infected in any other ' This is by no means a new observation. Griesenger, half a century ago, observed : " On remarque encore que tres souvent 11 y a un Intervalle de hult jours a trois semaines entre un premiere cas qui se d^veloppe et I'inva- sion consecutive de la maladie chez un autre." way than by feeding on the blood of a yellow fever patient 1 Can man contract tlie disease in any other way than by the bite of an infected mosquito? How far does the transmission of the infection by the sole agency of the mosquito harmonise with and explain the limitation of yellow fever to particular zones, to seaport towns, its persistence in ships, and other well- ascertained facts in the epidemiology and etiology of the disease 1 Other experiments made at the same station seem to prove that yellow fever is communicable by subcutaneous injections of the blood of the sick, taken from twelve hours to two days after the commencement of the fever. In six out of seven experiments of this kind the result was positive. The amounts injected varied from 2 c.c. to 0"5 c.c. The refractory patient was believed to be naturally immune. Another experiment is reported in which the injection of half a centimetre cube of blood from an experi- mental case gave rise to yellow fever. Until the converse experiment, however, is made, and mosquitoes fed on the blood of a patient suflfer- ing from the fever caused by these injections are proved capable of communicating yellow fever to healthy persons, some doubt must remain whether the fever so induced is caused by the parasite itself or by a toxin present in the blood. It is asserted that yellow fever has been communicated by blood passed through a Berkefeld filter. This requires confirmation. The specific virus is destroyed by subjecting the blood to a temperature of 55° C. The chief significance of these experiments lies in the promise they aff'ord of putting us on the track of a parasite that has hitherto evaded detection. A careful and critical investigation of the facts bearing on the etiology of the disease is now more than ever necessary. Etiology. — Disting^dshiiu/ Characters of Yellorv Fever.—Yellow fever is distinguished from other pestilences: (a) By its tendency to invade and cling to ships, and by the extent to which its spread is dependent on maritime commerce ; {h) By its predilection for towns, especially those situated on the sea-coast and on the borders of navigable rivers, and by the rarity with which it invades rural districts; (c) By the tenacity with which it clings to particular houses and localities; [d) By its epidemic range being confined to warm climates, and its prevalence in these restricted to the warm season ; (e) By the extreme variations it exhibits in its spreading power, and in the mortality it causes in different localities and outbreaks; (/) By the marked influence of race, nationality, and acclimatisation on sus- ceptibility to infection. Endemic Centres.—Yellow fever is endemic in the West Indies, whence come the first quite reliable accounts of the disease, reaching no farther back than the year 1647. A second