152 TUMOURS OF [Goitre, Tumours); Tongue (Tumours); Un- consciousness (Causes, Tmnours of Brain); Urachus (Tumours) ; Uterus, Non-malignant Tumours of ; Uterus, Malignant Tumours of ; Uvula, Diseases of (Neiv Growths); Vagina, Disorders of (New Formations); Vesicul^ Seminalbs (Cysts and Malignant Disease); Vulva, Diseases op (Cysts and Tumours); Warts and Verruc^e. Oncology is a branch of pathology which is particularly concerned in the investigation of the structure (histogenesis) and causes (patho- genesis) of those abnormalities of animals and vegetables known as tumours. The term tumour is very ancient and only signified a "swelling," but the careful microscopic investi- gations conducted by histologists with the aid of differential staining of the tissues, and the study of the relations of micro-organisms to those swellings called tumours has led to a revolution of our knowledge, and gradually the term has been stripped of its former wide significance; although in clinical work the term is not likely to completely disappear, it has lost its importance to the pathologist. Even with our modern knowledge it is impossible to frame a definition of a tumour, although we set very clear limitations to the use of the word. In this article the conditions which will be described nnder the heading "Tumours" are local irregular swellings of the connective-tissue system (fat, cartilage, bone, etc.), which are not due to recognised infections such as tuberculosis, syphilis, glanders, actinomycosis, and the like; abnormal conditions of secreting glands, skin, and mucous membrane known as adenomata and cancer; and the remarkable group known as dermoids. Each of these groups will receive separate consideration. One of the earliest classifications of the heterogeneous formations termed tumours, arranged them into a malig- nant and an innocent division. The malignant tumours inevitably destroyed life, whereas inno- cent tumours did not display such destructive propensities. Although this division was founded solely on clinical observation it is sound, because tumours belonging to the connective-tissue group, as well as those of the epithelial group which display malignancy exhibit, in many in- stances, structural characteristics which enable competent histologists to recognise them ; thus the two terms innocency and malignancy, as applied to tumours, are of the greatest signifi- cance in relation to clinical medicine. The most satisfactory method of classifying tumours would be to take their cause as a basis, but as we are absolutely ignorant of the pathogenesis of tumours, we have to rely on their structure for taxonoraic purposes. It is noteworthy that whenever the cause of a disease characterised by tumour-formations is detected, that particular disease is removed from the list of tumours; one of the most striking instances of this is the parasitic disease known as actinomycosis, which used to be classed with the sarcomata. The study of the minute structure (histology) of tumours led to a great increase of knowledge concerning them, the earliest investigators in this field being J. Miiller and Virchow. The use of animal bodies for food induced men to apply names to the various parts, so that in the vulgar tongue bone, skin, fat, gristle, and the like are thoroughly familiar structures. The anatomist speaks of nerves, muscle, tendon, artery, and so forth ; but the discoveries of the microscope revealed that the body is composed of fundamental tissues, which enter into the composition of organs of the most diverse form and function. The basis of animal bodies con- sists of what is known as connective tissues which comprise bone, fat, cartilage, fibrous, muscular, and nervous tissue, and a peculiar material which permeates the body and enters into the composition of every organ, and is known as connective tissue. This ubiquitous web is stout and strong where it forms fascia and periosteum, but extremely delicate in the nervous system, and reaches such extreme fine- ness in the retina that it needs careful prepara- tion to render it perceptible even to the micro- scope. The connective tissues practically form the framework of the body, and constitute a sort of sustentaculum in the compound organs such as the intestines, liver, kidney, and the like for the support of epithelium, and as a mesh in which blood-vessels and lymphatics can ramify to supply the liquid tissue (blood), from which the cells can obtain material to form the secretion characteristic of the par- ticular gland to which they belong. The care- ful and critical study of the minute (micro- scopic) structure of tumours revealed that they were composed of material exactly like that of the normal tissues of the body, and pathologists began to realise that the structure of a primary tumour invariably corresponded with the tissue in which it arose ; for example, an osseous or bony tumour arises from the bone, a fatty tumour from fat, a cartilage tumour from carti- lage, and so on. This is known as the " law of prototypes," and a careful study of it enables pathologists to predict the various genera of tumours to which an organ may be liable, as well as to explain why primary epithelial tu- mours do not grow in bones and muscles, or myelomata and osteomata in the liver, kidney, or brain. It is important to indicate that although the tissues of an organ determine the species of tumours to which it is liable, their relative frequency can only be gathered from observation. It is also curious how organs vary in their liability to tumours ; for instance, the heart is rarely occupied by a tumour, but the uterus, also a muscular organ, is with extreme frequency infested with fibroids ; whilst