X-RAYS 567 occasioned by the capricious yield of the influence machine, are absent when an induction coil is made use of. The Leyden jars of the influence machine should be disconnected, otherwise a succession of very bright flashes will be pro- duced instead of a continuous discharge. An advantage of the influence machine is that, unless punctured by a stray spark, the life of the tubes is longer, because the current passed through them is smaller and the heating effect less. There is also an absence of flickering, so that for screen work they are less tiring to the eye. It is also an advantage to be able to do without accumulators or primary batteries, and to generate one's own electricity; still, on the whole, most operators, including the writer, prefer the induction coil. If the induction coil method be preferred, a set of accumulators, or a primary battery, or a connection to the electric lighting mains will also be required. The smallest induction coil which will be found of much use is one with a six-inch spark, FlO. 2.—Induction coil. Turner's Med. Electricity. a more satisfactory instrument will be one with a 10-inch spark (Fig. 2), and coils with 18- or 24-inch sparks are sometimes used. A great deal depends upon the quality and construction of the coil, and the instrument should be suited to the source of electric supply; thus a coil wound to run ofl' a few accumulators will not yield the best effects when fed by a high voltage current from the mains. A good maker of coils is Apps, 433 Strand, London. When elec- trolytic interrupters are used it is sometimes an advantage to be able to vary the self-induction of a coil; this can be done by altering the con- nections of the layers of the primary winding. Schall, 55 Wigmore Street, London, supplies a German induction coil in which the terminals of the four layers of the primary wire are brought outside (Fig. 3), and which can be connected together either— 1. All in series, 2. All in parallel, or 3. Two layers in series, and the two groups in parallel. In the first case the self-induction is at a maximum and the coil is suitable for soft tubes ; the current at make is completely suppressed. In the second case the self-induction is at a minimum, the current at make is not completely suppressed, but the full length of spark at break is obtained, and the coil is suitable for hard tubes. In the third case an intermediate condition obtains. In addition to the coil a current interrupter will be required; the old - fashioned Neef's hammer or vibrating spring which usually forms part of the coil can be used when the coil is fed by a few accumulators, and when intense effects are not required, but it cannot be used when the coil is attached to the electric light mains, and under all circumstances a separate motor interrupter is advantageous; still it is better not to buy a coil unless it is provided with a Neef's hammer, for the latter is often useful as a stand-by, and it is also the most portable of interrupters. The chief forms of motor interrupters can be classified as follows :— ( Dipping contact, Mackenzie 1. Mercurials Davidson, mercury jet or { turbine. Wehnelt, Simon Caldwell, Campbell Swinton. 3. Rubbing contact j Dawson Turner, Con- between solids I tremoulins-Gaiffe. All these interrupters can be used either with 2. Electrolytic Fig. 3.—Arrangement for altering self-induction of coil. Scliall. high voltage currents from the mains or (except- ing the electrolytic group) with low voltage currents from accumulators. 1. The simplest motor-driven mercury inter- rupter is the one with a vertical dipping contact (Fig. 4). The advantage of this instrument is that it is simple, it is easily kept in order, and it only requires a small amount of mercury. It is, however, less rapid than the succeeding instru- ments. In the Mackenzie Davidson interrupter (Fig. 5) the contact is made by an inclined rotating paddle which alternately dips into and out of the mercury. The paddle shaft is driven by a band attached to the motor shaft so as to insulate it from the motor, and to permit the motor to be fed by the accumulators that are supplying the induction coil. This instrument having a rotating instead of a reciprocating motion can be run very rapidly, and it is one