VULVA, DISEASES OF THE 509 abscess must be similarly dealt with; but the separation of the wall of the abscess is usually more difficult, because it becomes closely in- corporated with the parts around it, and it is best to insert a drain for twenty-four hours. Hydrocele of the canal of Nuck is the result of the persistence of a peritoneal pouch by the side of the round ligament, with subsequent closure of its abdominal end. The cavity becomes dis- tended with fluid and appears as an oblong swelling extending from the inguinal canal towards the labium majus. It is distinguished from a hernia by being irreducible, and by a more or less distinct interval between it and the inguinal ring. It is not, however, always possible to distinguish it from a hydrocele of an old hernial sac. The treatment is excision. Hernia appears in the vulva in the inguinal form. When large it ma,y greatly distend the labium majus, entering it from above. (6) Tumours. — The following are met with in the vulva: lipoma, fibroma, myxoma, angeioma, papilloma, sarcoma, and carcinoma. Lipomata arise in the labia majora and some- times in the mons veneris. They are usually sessile and seldom attain a large size. They can be left alone unless they cause discomfort, and then they should be enucleated. Fibromata are rare, and seldom large; but occasionally a fibroma may form a large ped- unculated tumour, causing dragging pain by its weight. These tumours are easily removed. Myxomata form soft pedunculated masses, arising generally from the labium majus. The pedicle is nearly always narrow. Sometimes the skin covering them is deeply pigmented. They can be removed if they produce discomfort. Angeiomata are sometimes seen as nsevi, mostly in children: more rarely a plexiform angeioma occurs. A neevus seldom requires to be interfered with; a plexiform angeioma is best treated by electrolysis. Papillomata or warts are common; the ordinary simple wart may be present, but more often papillomata are associated with irritating discharges in cases of gonorrhoea. They are usually pedunculated, but may be sessile; and a considerable area may be covered by them. Treatment.—Gonorrhoea, if present, must be energetically treated, and the vulva must be kept scrupulously clean. Considerable improve- ment may usually be effected by the use of mercurial lotion and ointment; if the papillo- mata persist they should be snipped off, and their bases touched with nitric acid or solid nitrate of silver. Sarcoma is only rarely met with in the vulva ; and it usually takes the pigmented form (melanoma). As a rule the growth is dissemi- nated over other parts of the body, and the outlook is very unfavourable. A localised solitary sarcoma should be freely removed. Carcinoma of the vulva generally attacks the clitoris or one of the labia majora, and is of the squamous form (epithelioma). When the clitoris is involved, this structure becomes replaced by a mass which may attain the size of a small egg. The surface is usually ulcerated in parts. On the labia majora carcinoma commences as a wart-like structure, which enlarges rapidly and soon breaks down on the surface, forming an ulcerating mass discharging a foetid secretion. Carcinoma has been known to arise in a vulva affected with kraurosis, and we have met with an example. The glands in the inguinal region become affected, although they may remain free for a relatively long time. Once they are involved the swelling in the groins rapidly increases and spreads to the interior of the pelvis. When the case is seen early enough free removal of the disease gives a favourable prospect of cure. The vulva should be dissected away at some distance from the growth; and the cut edges of healthy skin can generally be united to each other and to the cut edge of the vaginal mucosa. Any glands that can be felt in the groins should be removed at the same time. Adeno-carcinoma is rarely seen in the vulva ; when present it involves the Bartholinian gland. It grows rapidly and shows a marked tendency to recurrence after removal. VI. Morbid Conditions of the Clitoris and Hymen.—These can be briefly dealt with. Some of the morbid conditions of the clitoris have been described, such as carcinoma and elephantiasis. Inflammation of the clitoris may be a part of a general vulvitis; or it may be due to want of cleanliness, leading to accumulation of secretion under the prepuce. This may lead to excoria- tion and even to adhesion of the glans to the prepuce; and considerable irritation may be set up in consequence. Sometimes the pent-up secretion becomes inspissated and hard, forming a kind of concretion. Treatment.—When the margins of the prepuce are adherent they should be separated with a probe or director ; in old cases some dissection may be required to remove a concretion. Clean- liness will generally accomplish the rest. The hymen is sometimes unusually rigid, lead- ing to difficulty in intercourse; and in rare cases it may remain unruptured and present an obstacle to child-birth, conception having oc- curred without complete penetration. At other times the hymeneal orifice may be unusually small, or it may present a transverse or longi- tudinal band, so that there are two orifices. The so-called " imperforate hymen " is really a condition of vaginal atresia; the hymen may usually be distinguished on the under surface of the septum. This is dealt with under " Mal- formations of the Vagina." A rigid hymen will require incision and stretching to allow of coitus taking place.