584 X-RAYS removed for a scirrhus of a very malignant type; owing to a rapid recurrence both in the scar and to the appearance of two himps in the left mamma, accompanied by many skin nodules and the enlargement of the superficial and deep lymphatics, the electrical treatment was tried. After consultation with a surgeon it was decided to treat the right side with the Rontgen rays and the left side with the effluve on alternate days. The rays had to be given up after twelve five-minute applications owing to a commencing dermatitis ; the high frequency treatment on the left side could be continued. On a re-examination in consultation with the surgeon, after a total of twenty-five applica- tions—twelve of the rays and thirteen of the effluve—both sides showed much improvement, the superficial nodules had disappeared, the lym- phatics were smaller, the right arm less swollen and more movable, the lumps in the left mamma were more diffuse and smaller, and it appeared to us that both methods of treatment had been of equal efiiciency. All treatment had, how- ever, to be suspended owing to internal secondary growths causing cedema of the lower extremities. In a case of Dr. Macmillan's of recurrent epithe- lioma after removal of the cervix, the Rciutgen rays, which had been used with benefit in the electrical department of the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, had to be given up owing to a der- matitis ; this case being now treated by a con- denser vaginal electrode with the effluve, showed the same temporary improvement which had attended the use of the rays, each application being followed by a lessening in the amount and odour of the discharge, and by a feeling of bien- etre. Two applications of seven minutes each a week seemed to be sufficient to keep the dis- ease in check. Where possible the author prefers to treat such cases by the effluve locally on one day and by condensation on the following day, so as to obtain both a local destructive effect on the growth and a general nutritional improve- ment. In the West London Medical Journal for July 1902, Dr. James Allan records four cases treated by the effluve. The following are brief notes of these cases :— Case 1.—Miss H., aged 48, operated on for sarcoma of the antrum twice. On a further recurrence electric treatment was begun. The growth was easily seen in the nasal passages; the patient looked very ill and complained of much pain. After the second application by means of a small condenser electrode improve- ment began, the pain subsided, the patient slept well, and after fifteen sittings the visible growth had disappeared. The pathological report was a spindle-celled sarcoma. Cases II and III.—Two cases of recurrent scirrhus of the breast also yielded to the treat- ment. Case IV.—A fourth case was one of epithe- lioma of the cervix which had been given up as hopeless by two doctors. The cervix was com- pletely involved, the patient weighed 6 st. 5 lb., and looked and felt very ill. The case being a desperate one, daily applications of from forty to sixty minutes were given by means of a con- denser electrode passed up to the cervix. After about six weeks' treatment a very severe re- action set in accompanied by rigors. Three weeks later treatment was resumed with signs of improvement. The local condition did not alter much, but the pain and discharge decreased, sleep and appetite returned; the growth seems to be entirely arrested; present weight 7 st. 10 lb. Dr. Allan adds : " We must not hastily jump to conclusions about this new treatment, but we seem to be on the threshold of a very important therapeutical discovery which will bring relief and health to those suffering from a malignant disease which up till now has baffled the medical world." Xylene.—A carbide of hydrogen (dimethyl- benzene, CjgHjg), which resembles benzol in its properties. See Benzol. Xylidine.—A methylated homologue of aniline (CgHg.NHj), obtained from dimethylani- line ; xylidine-red is a staining reagent resem- bling rosaniline. XylO-.—In compound words xylo- (Gr. ^\ov, wood) means belonging to wood or woody, e.g. xylojjhagous (wood-eating). Xyloidin.—A powder produced by the action of nitric acid on starch and woody fibre (CgHg (N0.,)05); it is inflammable. Xylol* See Xylene; xylol balsam is a solution of Canada balsam in xylol, used as a mounting agent in microscopy. Xylonite. See Celluloid. Xylose.—A sugar (CgHj^O^) isomeric with arabinose ; it is prepared from wood-gum, hence the name {xylose). XylOtherapy.—The treatment of dis- ease by various woods, such as cinchona bark, pine-wood, etc. Y-Sha.ped.—Having the shape of a capital Y or forked stick ; e.g. the Y-shaped cartilage of the acetabulum in childhood, the Y-shaped liga- ment (ilio-femoral ligament), and the Y-shaped double monster (hypsiloid fused twins). Ya.Wning^. See also 'HYStTS.mx {Disorders of Respiratory Organs); Physiology Respira- tion {Special Respiratory Movements); Respira- tion {Hyperpnaia).—-Yawning is a physiological expression of fatigue. It consists of the follow- ing phenomena:— 1. A deep inspiration, with elevations of the vomer and palate.