35 TONGUE In addition to the ordinary constitutional treatment by mercury, the mucous patch may be dusted with a powder composed of equal parts of calomel, boracic acid, and starch, or painted with silver nitrate. Butlin strongly recommends painting the affected part with a 10 per cent solution of chromic acid every two or three days. Irritating food, alcohol, and smoking should be avoided. The tertiary manifestations of syphilis in the tongue are "tertiary plaques" or "sclerosing glossitis," gummata, and ulcers. Sclerosing Glossitis.—This term was applied by Fournier to a condition in which, as a result of cellular hyperplasia, patches of the tongue become infiltrated with leucocytes, and smooth plaques or tuberous masses are formed on the surface of the organ. These patches appear chiefly on the dorsum, and at first only involve the more superficial strata of the tongue. They tend to be oval in outline, are elevated beyond the level of the mucous membrane, and present a dull red mammillated or lobulated appearance comparable to the surface of a cirrhotic liver. They are firm and elastic, and are insensitive. The neighbouring lymphatic glands are not en- larged. If untreated they tend to break down and form superficial ulcers which heal readily. The process of healing, however, is attended with excessive cicatricial contraction, with the result that deep clefts and furrows are formed, and the tongue is permanently disfigured. In its typical form the disease is very characteristic, and is not likely to be mistaken for any other affection of the tongue. The presence of other evidence of syphilis and the speedy improve- ment which follows antisyphilitic treatment prevent it being confused with epithelioma. Gummata may appear on the tongue at any time during the tertiary stage of sj'philis. They are usually situated on the dorsum, and more fi'equently towards the centre than at the edges. As they seldom implicate the floor of the mouth or the base of the tongue, the tongue can usually be freely protruded. It is necessary to distinguish between a gumma which has not broken down on the surface and one which has ulcerated. An unbroken gumma forms an in- dolent, firm swelling in the substance of the tongue, devoid of pain, and seldom accompanied by enlargement of the adjacent lymphatic glands. After breaking down it forms a deep excavated ulcer, which is often extremely pain- ful and tender, and the glands are usually enlarged. Two forms of gummata are met with—the superficial and the deep or parenchymatous. Superficial gummata are almost always mul- tiple, and appear as small, hard nodules in the mucous and submucous tissue, projecting on the dorsum of the tongue. They vary in size from a pin's head to a pea and are quite painless. The mucous membrane over the swellings may retain its papillee or may be quite smooth. These gummata tend to break down early, forming extensive superficial ulcers. The deep or parenchymatous gummata may be single or multiple. They may appear on any part of the tongue, but are most common on the dorsum. They are met with both in the middle and at the margins of the organ. As a result of congenital syphilis they are occasion- ally met with in children. The swellings vary in size from a hazel nut to a walnut, and form hard lumps, usually deeply placed in the sub- stance of the tongue. The overlying mucous membrane is of normal colour, but has usually lost its papillse. Sooner or later, if untreated, the gumma approaches the surface, and after softening breaks down, leaving a deep ragged ulcer, with a foul sloughy surface and firm raised edges. The edges, however, are seldom indurated and everted like those of a cancerous ulcer. The differential diagnosis of these gummatous swellings is often very difficult. They have to be distinguished, on the one hand, from innocent tumours, such as fatty or fibrous tumours, and on the other from carcinoma. The main points characteristic of innocent tumours are that they are seldom multiple, they are well defined, and movable in the substance of the tongue. Carci- noma is almost invariably single, is usually situated near the margin of the tongue, and generally occurs in patients over forty years of age. Syphilitic Ulcers and Fissures. — These are almost invariably the result of the breaking down of a gumma. The ulcers are characterised by having a ragged and sloughy base, on the surface of which is a yellowish grey slough, aptly compared in appearance to a piece of wash-leather. The edges are steep, ragged, and often undermined, but they want the typically indurated and everted character of those of a cancerous ulcer. The surrounding parts of the tongue are thickened and firm. The neighbour- ing glands are not necessarily enlarged. The ulcer is extremely painful when irritated by food, hot fluids, or spirits. If untreated the sore may remain indolent for months, and show no sign either of spreading or of healing, but it may at any time take on the characters of a malignant ulcer. Syphilitic fissures are met with as long, narrow, deep clefts, or as stellate or sinuous cracks in the substance of the tongue. After the healing of these ulcers and fissures per- manent clefts and tumours remain in the tongue. Treatment.—The tertiary manifestations of syphilis in the tongue are treated on the same general lines as other tertiary lesions. Iodide of potassium, with or without mercury, is given in large doses, beginning with 10 or 15 grains three times in the day, and increasing to 25 or 30 grains. Locally an antiseptic mouth wash,