URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 281 may be taken that a copious excretion of globu- lin points to a more severe degree of renal disease. When, however, we attempt to draw more detailed clinical inferences from this quotient it soon becomes apparent that the data available are as yet insufficient for the purpose, and the results obtained are apt to be contra- dictory. Halliburton, summing up our know- ledge of these matters, after mentioning the points already referred to, adds that when both proteids are present the proteid quotient in the blood corresponds roughly to that in the urine, but that the latter is the more variable of the two, and that their variations do not necessarily correspond. It has been stated that the pro- portion of globulin is notably high in cases of lardaceous disease of the kidneys. Occasionally a globulin has been found alone in the urine, as in a remarkable case recorded by Byrom Bram- well and Noel Paton, in which it was deposited in crystalline form. A rough notion of the amount of globulin present may be obtained, as Sir William Roberts pointed out, by allowing the urine to fall drop by drop into distilled water, when, if the pro- portion of globulin is considerable, the path of each drop, as it sinks through the water, is marked out by a milky streak, owing to the fact that this proteid is insoluble in pure water. For accurate determinations of the relative amounts it is necessary to extract and weigh the albumin and globulin separately. To all the ordinary albumin tests the two proteids behave alike, and they are precipitated to- gether. The conditions under which albuminuria occurs may be grouped under several fairly distinct headings. 1. The albuminuria associated with organic disease of the kidneys, such as acute and chronic nephritis. In acute nephritis the amount of albumin passed is usually large, and in the later stages of the disease, if the condition has become chronic, even larger proportions of albumin may be reached, and the urine may become almost solid when boiled. In such cases the presence of abundant tube-casts and their characters, as well as the general symptoms, are of even more importance than the amount of albumin in forming a diagnosis. In chronic interstitial nephritis the excretion of albumin is as a rule scanty, except in the later stages when signs of cardiac failure are superadded, or when there is evidence of super- vening parenchymatous trouble. In lardaceous disease of the kidneys the amounts of albumin excreted differ widely in different cases, perhaps in connection with the presence or absence of parenchymatous changes. Other gross renal lesions, such as infarctions, may also give rise to albuminuria, and in all cases urine containing blood will naturally yield the reactions of albumin. In ordinary cases of acute nephritis 1 per cent of albumin is frequently present, but this quantity is often greatly exceeded, and amounts exceeding 5 per cent are sometimes observed. 2. Circulatory disturbances are among the frequent causes of albuminuria, which is one of the ordinary accompaniments of impeded venous outflow from the kidneys. The result is the same whether the impeded outflow be due to a general backward pressure in the venous system, such as occurs in connection with valvular heart disease or with emphysema of the lungs leading to hypertrophy and dilatation of the right ven- tricle, or whether it be due to a more local venous obstruction caused by pressure on the renal veins or inferior vena cava exercised by the pregnant uterus, abdominal tumours, or large accumulations of ascitic fluid. In such cases the escape of albumin through the kidneys may be attributable in part to the increased vis a tergo, and in part to changes in the glomerular epithelium resulting from deficiency of oxygen in the blood. A diminished supply of blood to the kidneys may produce a similar effect, and to this cause has been ascribed the albuminuria which may accompany diseases attended with profuse diar- rhoea, such as Asiatic cholera, but here toxic influence may very probably come into play. 3. In fevers, albuminuria of slight degi'ee is a very common symptom, and not only in such fevers as are apt to set up an acute parenchy- matous nephritis, such as scarlatina and diph- theria. Such albuminuria may be in part due to circulatory disturbances, but the production of a toxic nephritis in the fevers referred to, and the occasional occurrence of nephritis as a com- plication of other febrile disorders, suggests a toxic origin, and the cloudy swelling so often observed in the kidneys post-mortem bears witness to changes produced in the renal epi- thelium by diseases of this class. Febrile albuminuria is to some extent dependent upon the height of the fever, and still more upon the length of the period over which it extends. Thus in typhoid fever a slight albuminuria is extremely common. 4. When the ureter has been temporarily occluded, as for example by a calculus, the re- moval of the obstruction is followed by albumin- uria. According to Max Hermann, such al- buminuria has its origin in secondary disturb- ances in the renal circulation resulting from the distension of the pelvis of the kidney by the urine which accumulates behind the obstruction. 5. A very interesting group of cases of al- buminuria embraces those connected with nervous disturbances, such as an epileptic fit, or more frequently a series of such fits occurring in rapid succession, or with graver accidents occurring in the central nervous system, such