TYPHOID FEVER 191 occurred after typhoid. It is probably to peri- pheral neuritis that most cases of paraplegia after typhoid are due, but anterior cornual myelitis has been shown by post-mortem ex- amination sometimes to follow typhoid. " Typhoid Spine."—Severe pain in the spine and the legs, especially on movement, may occur during convalescence ; it seems to be a neurosis. Tender Toes.—The tops and pads of the toes may become intensely sensitive ; this passes ofi' in a few days. Tetany has been recorded. Hyperpyrexia is very rare in typhoid fever. Of 200 consecutive cases at St. Mary's Hospital it occurred only twice ; the same percentage was found by Bryant in 608 cases collected from Guy's Hospital Reports ; Ord, Osier, Fagge, and the statistics of the Metropolitan Asylums Board all show the rarity of its occurrence. But rare as it is in typhoid fever, it is infinitely rarer as a complication in itself ; it is nearly always due to some local affection. In one of my cases pneumonia, in two perforation and peritonitis, in one suppurative meningitis, and in one rupture of the gall-bladder, were found post-mortem. It should, then, never be assumed that hyperpyrexia is a complication in itself without a thorough search for some local affection to account for it. This may be of import in treatment, as the cold bath, which is the most efficient means of reducing temperature, might do harm if it were due to perforation or peri- tonitis ; in such cases treatment must be directed to the local condition and the temperature meanwhile lowered by sponging, quinine, etc. Rigors occasionally inaugurate the disease, and they are not very infrequent in its later stages. They occur from various causes, from peritonitis, with or without perforation of in- testine, or from the onset of pneumonia; they occur repeatedly with repeated melsena in some cases, or with indications of thrombosis or em- bolism of vessels. In some cases they appear due to septic poisoning from insanitary con- ditions, and cease when the patient is removed to another dwelling, and in many cases they are probably due to septic absorption from some source. They have been attributed to constipa- tion. In many cases they occur with increase of pyrexia which is quite evanescent and without constitutional disturbance; probably in these cases (mostly females) they are due to some slight disturbance acting on a heat-regulating centre, which has become unduly sensitive from toxic and febrile changes. The significance of rigors as regards prognosis is nil; and the prognosis depends not on the rigors but on the gravity or unimportance of their cause. Cutaneous System.—Lineae albicantes on the abdominal wall may result from typhoid fever. Alopecia is common and may not commence till after convalescence ; the hair usually grows again. The undermentioned cutaneous eruptions may occur: — 1. A uniform scarlet-red rash may appear in the early stages of typhoid. It is usually more marked on the limbs and shoulders than on the trunk, and is apt to form coalescent patches which point to its being an erythema. 2. Typical erythematous large plaques especi- ally on the forearms. 3. Tdches bleudtres.—Large maculae of a purple colour—these are said to be always due to pediculi. 4. Purpura may come on, usually in late stages of severe attacks, but not necessarily. 5. Miliaria and sudamina occur here as they do in other diseases, especially if there be much sweating. 6. A morbilliform rash and urticaria have been observed. 7. Herpes is uncommon, and mostly indicates pneumonia as a complication. 8. Boils or carbuncles may occur during con- valescence. 9. Occasionally pus vesicles like varicella or large bullte. 10. Drug rashes from quinine, antipyrin, sulphonal, trional, etc. 11. Desquamation occasionally follows typhoid fever. Ga7igrene may occur from occlusion of veins or arteries as already described, but it may occur without this, or at any rate without blocking of vessels of any but very small size ; and is attributed by Keen to stasis of blood in the capillary circulation, perhaps also to fatty degeneration of the smaller arteries. In this way the penis, labia, or ear may become gangren- ous ; it usually comes on in early convalescence, and the pain is not so marked as in embolic gangrene, and a blue line of demarcation soon forms. Some such cases may be of peripheral nerve origin. Bed-sores may occur, but rarely in well-nursed patients ; they may destroy the ligaments of the sacrum and coccyx, and set up spinal menin- gitis. Rupture of muscular fibre has been studied by Zenker. The muscle changes are not peculiar to typhoid fever, being a granular and waxy change, the fibre coming to resemble the flesh of fish ; rupture may easily occur from cough or sudden effort. Ecchymoses and heema- toma may occur, and the latter may suppurate. The muscles which most often rupture are the abdominal muscles, the adductors of the thigh, and, as Hoffmann showed, the diaphragm. There may be no symptoms, but sudden, intense pain may be set up, and when the abdominal muscles are torn peritonitis may be simulated. Periostitis and Osteitis may affect any of the bones, most commonly those of the lower limbs,