VITREOUS HUMOUR, DISEASES OF 502 in the intestinal tract of the patient, or are introduced from without either with food or water. The embryos develop in the stomach from the eggs, and by means of booklets pene- trate its walls and enter the circulation. They are then carried to various parts of the body; if they enter an eye they may leave the circu- lation, growing into a cysticercus either beneath the retina or in the vitreous. If it starts be- neath the retina it raises that membrane up away from the choroid, and later on breaks through it into the vitreous. The ophthalmoscopic appearance of a cysti- cercus in the vitreous is that of a bluish grey rounded mass, in which often heaving movements at irregular intervals may be detected. The head may sometimes be seen protruded on the surface of the cyst, and its circle of booklets and suckers be recognised. When the head is re- tracted it appears as a white, shining spot in the wall. After a cysticercus has existed in the vitreous a short while a fibrous tissue covering- forms around it, and it appears as a dense white mass, the diagnosis of which from other con- ditions may be difficult. If left, an eye with a cysticercus in it is liable to have attacks of irido-cyclitis and ultimately to shrink. In some cases the parasite has been successfully removed through a meridional incision in the sclerotic. Vittel. See Balneology {France, Cal- careous Waters); Mineral Waters {Calcareous). Vitus'S Da.nce. See Chorea {Synonyms, St. Vifus's Dance). Viviparous.—Bearing young that are alive, which are sufficiently developed to be able to live at once apart from the mother, and no longer in structural continuity with her. Vivisection.—The practice of experi- ments upon living animals with the purpose of discovering physiological processes and patho- logical developments with a view to the perfect- ing of the means of treating diseases by drugs, operation, or other methods. The restrictions under which vivisection experiments can be carried out in this country are detailed in the Cruelty to Animals Act of 1876 (39 and 40 Vict. c. 77), which does not apply to inverte- brate animals. Voca,i.—Relating to the voice; e.g. vocal cords of the larynx, vocal fremitus, vocal res- onance, etc. See Voice ; Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm of {Symptoms); Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Iferve Deafness, Affectioris of other Cranial Nerves) ; Larynx, Neuroses of ; Typhoid Fever {Complications, Laryngeal). Vogt'S Point.—The point on the cranium where trephining is performed in cases of trau- matic meningeal hfemorrhage. Voice. See also Hysteria {Disorders of Respiration, Aphonia); Nose, Examination of {Character of Voice); Palate {Repair of Cleft, Voice Training) ; Physiology, Respiration {Voice); Puberty {Signs); Stammering.—Nor- mal voice production depends on the following factors:— 1. A healthy condition of the respiratory muscles. 2. A normal capacity of the pharyngeal, oral, and nasal cavities, with good muscular develop- ment and action of the various muscles whose action influences the shape of these cavities. 3. Unimpaired functional activity of the nei'ves and nervous centres which control the muscular movements involved in 1 and 2. All defects in voice production are due to some disturbance in one or more of these factors. In the more important cases of defects in ai'ticulation in children all the factors are involved. For purposes of illustration it is advisable to select a type of defective articula- tion, and we may briefly consider the defect as seen in children when due to neglect of the normal process of respiration with resulting structural defects in the respiratory vocal apparatus. 1. A Healthy Condition of the Respiratory Muscles.—Probably the most important cause of voice defects in children is to be found in abnormal respiration. A marked failure to expand the chest properly in ordinary and even in deep respirations is characteristic of these cases. An equally serious defect is present in the expiratory phase of respiration, which is short and uncontrolled. And it is this want of control of the expired airs that is one of the primary defects in defective articulation. The first essential in treatment in these cases, there- fore, is the due performance of breathing exercises. The child should be made to lie flat on his back and breathe in and out slowly and deeply for half an hour night and morning, special care being taken with the initial exer- cises to ensure a proper expansion and slow retraction of the chest. The continuation of these exercises for even a few weeks will effect in most cases a remarkable increase in the respiratory capacity of the child, which will react favourably in voice production. 2. The Resonating Cavities.—As a result of long-standing neglect of the normal powers of respiration, e.g. in typical mouth-breathers, the shape of the various resonating cavities becomes altered in a manner unfavourable to normal voice production. The most striking alterations are— (a) A narrowing of the nasal cavity. This narrowing takes place on all sides. The palate is abnormally high, and the nasal cavity proper is narrowed by the undue approximation of its osseous walls, and also by a thickening of its lining membrane.