UNIT 240 Unit.—A single thing or a quantity used as a means of estimating or comparing other quan- tities, e.g. an immunising unit or a serum unit. Unna'S Bandage.—A bandage stiff- ened with gelatine, used in the treatment of callous ulcers. See Ulcers and Ulceration (^Treatment). Unna'S Dermatosis. — Seborrhoea. See Acne {Unna's Theory of Causation); Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands (Seborrhoea). Unna's Paste.—A paste consisting of two parts each of mucilage of acacia and glycerine and of one part of oxide of zinc; it is used in eczema. See Eczema (Treatment). Unsound Food.—Food (meat, poultry, game, fish, fruit, vegetables, bread, milk, etc.) which is unfit for consumption or unwholesome in any way; e.g. the meat from animals suffering from foot-and-mouth disease, anthrax, actinomy- cosis, etc., eggs which are decomposed or too far advanced in development, fish containing parasites or ptomaines, etc.; a medical officer of health should have knowledge of the meat in- spection, even although he has not himself to carry it out; there are various Acts of Parlia- ment regulating the detection of unsound food and the penalties attached to the selling of it, e.g. the Public Health Act of 1875 for England and Wales, the Public Health (Scotland) Act of 1897, etc. Unsound iViind. >S'ee Lunacy. Unwell.—In a special sense "unwell" means menstruating, and the monthly recur- rence of menstruation is called the " unwell time." See Menstruation {Synonyms). Unzen. See Balneology {Japan). Urachus. Introductory ..... 240 Malformations 240 Diseases ...... 240 Tumours...... 240 Urachal Fistula . . . .241 Acquired Fistula . . . .241 Urachal Cyst ..... 242 See also Ascites {Distinction from other Con- ditions) ; Embryology, Human {Bauchstiel); Ovaries, Diseases of the {Tumours, Diagnosis). The segment of the allantois which is included in the body of the fa3tus appears in a human embryo of the second month as a hollow fusiform body (Hertwig). In its middle part is a dilata- tion which becomes the bladder; the lower end is the sinus urogenitalis, whilst its upper part, a tube lined with epithelium, becomes the urachus. Retrograde metamorphosis is already in progress in the foetus at term. After birth atrophy proceeds in an irregular manner. The surrounding connective tissue presses at different points against the urachus so as to cause septa to develop in its canal (Jahn). Hence the bead- like dilatations and the bilocular cysts which sometimes develop in the urachus. The urachal canal is lined with stratified epithelium, triple below, double higher up. In any unobliterated portion of the canal this epithelium steadily grows up to adult life. A valvular fold of mucous membrane covers the vesical orifice of the urachal canal and prevents escape of urine upwards from the bladder (Wutz). This Wutz's valve is liable to be forced open when there is any obstruction to free micturition, and some- times yields after a urachal cyst has been ex- cised. Traces of urachal canal remain in every individual (Suchannek). Wutz found cystic dilatations, chiefly near the lower end, in twenty-four out of seventy-four bodies. The sheath of the canal is composed chiefly of white fibre towards the umbilicus, and of plain muscle fibres lower down. This sheath is the "superior true ligament" of the bladder, and runs from the apex of that organ to the umbilicus. It lies between the transversalis fascia and the peritoneum, siirrounded by loose connective tissue. Occasionally the urachus pushes the parietal peritoneum inwards so as to form for itself a mesentery. Malformations.—The urachus is more or less absent in ectopia vesicae. Garrigues, in a post-mortem on a virgin aged forty-five, who died after hysterectomy, found that the urachus was practically absent, the bladder being tri- angular and extending nearly to the umbilicus, to which it was connected by a very short tube Thorn, in an operation for the removal of a pair of broad ligament cysts, noted that the bladder had a double fundus, with a double urachus joining in a cystic dilatation behind the um- bilicus. Diseases.—In two out of the twenty-four cases where Wutz discovered cystic dilatations, sup- puration, due to septic inflammation elsewhere, was found in these minute cysts. Thus inflam- mation of the urachus is not unknown. It may account for some abscesses of the abdominal wall near the middle line, independent of sup- puration around an old urachal fistula. Tumours.—Bland-Sutton and Aveling report one case of myosarcoma of the sheath of the urachus, weighing nearly five pounds. Hoff- mann records one case of epithelioma of the mucous membrane of the urachus in a man aged twenty-eight. The patient was born with a urachal fistula; within three years of his death it suppurated, and pus, with urine, escaped through the umbilicus. The most important diseases of the urachus are two closely allied condiitions, fistula and cyst. Possibly some umbilical calculi may have de-