TUMOURS 160 The plexiform neuroma is not only allied to gliomata by the peculiar changes of its endo- neurium, but its pathological relationship to molluscuni fibrosum and localised neuromata is demonstrated by the occurrence of a plexiform neuroma beneath a molluscum fold ; and a large oval neuroma may form on a nerve, the sheath of which is thickened throughout. There are also good grounds for the inclusion of retinal glioma in this group, for the optic nerve and retina are processes of the brain, and the parallel exhibited in the age distribution of the gliomatous enlargement of the pons and crura met with in children under twelve years of age and the limitation of glioma of the retina to infancy are significant features. The malig- nancy of retinal glioma has its parallel also in the occasional occurrence of sarcoma in a molluscum nodule. Group 2.—The Epithelial Group In the tumours of this group the epithelium is not only present but is the essential and distinguishing feature. The difference in the disposition of the epithelium enables the tumours to be arranged in three genera : 1. Papillomata ; 2. Adenoma; and 3. Carcinomata (cancer). 1. Papillomata.—These are commonly known as warts, and may arise on any surface covered with epithelium. Structurally a wart consists of an axis of fibrous tissue containing blood- vessels, surmounted by epithelium. The wart may be simple and present a uniform surface, or be so covered with secondary process as to look like a mulberry. When the warts grow from a surface covered with stratified epithelium the cells on the warts have the same disposition ; this is seen when they arise on the skin or the mucous membrane of the larynx. When they grow from the mucous membrane of the bladder or the pelvis of the kidney warts have an appearance not unlike chorionic villi, and are termed in consequence villous papillomata ; this species is very delicate and extremely vascular. A rare but important form of papillomata grows from the choroid plexuses of the cerebral ven- tricles, and are apt to become calcified and form a tumour composed of peculiar concentric bodies. These tumours are known as psammomata. Villous papillomata are apt to grow in cysts, which arise in dilatations of the milk ducts of the mammary gland ; these are known as intra- cystic papillomata, but the most remarkable examples of this species arise in certain ovarian cysts, where they form dendritic masses which burst the cyst wall, and then sprouting into the abdomen resemble a large cauliflower. Warts are under certain conditions inimical to life. Thus the large solitary congenital pig- mented wart is apt to be the starting-point of a melanoma. Warts in the larynx sometimes induce suffocation. Villous papillomata of the fourth ventricle give rise to fatal pressure on the important nerve centres on the floor of that cavity, and the vascular villous tumours of the bladder and kidney occasionally cause death from oft-recurring bleeding. An important change to which skin warts are liable is the slow conversion of the surface cells into horn. Such horns may attain a length of nine inches. Adenomata.—These are tumours constructed upon the type of and growing in connection with secreting glands. They occur as encap- suled tumours in such organs as the mamma and liver; and in glands like the parotid and thyroid. When they arise in the mucous membrane of the rectum, intestine, or uterus they ai-e pedunculated (or polypoid). A single adenoma may arise in a gland, but it is not un- common for them to occur in multiples. In size they vary greatly, some are no bigger than peas, whereas an adenoma in the mammary or the thyroid gland may form a tumour as big as a man's head. An adenoma contains glandular spaces, and though a tumour of this kind does not furnish the secretion peculiar to the gland in which it arises, it nevertheless produces in many instances a perverted secretion which leads to great distension of the spaces in the tumour, and converts it into a cystic body. Tumours of this kind occurring in the breast are some- times termed " adenoceles," and in the thyroid gland "bronchoceles." Some of the largest occur in the ovary (ovarian adenomata), and sometimes attain a weight of a hundred or more pounds. The eifects of adenomata depend in the main on the situations in which they grow. For example, a very large mammary adenoma may be, and usually is, painless, but it annoys by dragging on the parts and disfigures by its size, whereas a small adenoma of the prostate gland may so thoroughly plug the vesical orifice of the urethra as to prodiice complete obstruction to the flow of urine. So too in the thyroid gland, a bron- chocele may be so big that the patient has to support it with her hands whilst she walks about, and yet it does not endanger life, whilst a solid adenoma no bigger than a walnut may compress the trachea and induce fatal dyspnoea. The following statements are true of all adenomata : when completely removed there is no fear of recurrence; they do not infect lymph glands ; nor give rise to secondary deposits. A tumour in many points closely allied to adenomata is that known as the sebaceous cyst, so common in the skin and particularly of the scalp. These tumours arise in the sebaceous glands. They may occur singly or in multiples. Sebaceous cysts may inflame, suppurate, or form cutaneous horns. Carcinoma (cancer).—The term carcinoma is applied to a malignant tumour arising in epithelium. When the source of the cancer is the epithelium of a secreting gland, it is de- scribed as a glandular carcinoma, but when it