UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE 373 access is obtained to the uterus through an incision in the lower part of the belly wall— this is known as abdominal hysterectomy; in the other the uterus is extirpated through the vagina, and is termed on this account vaginal hysterectomy. It is somewhat remarkable that although the object of both operations is the same, namely, removal of the uterus, in the abdominal operation the surgeon takes every care to thoroughly close the peritoneum over the vaginal opening, but in the vaginal method the gap in the peritoneum, left after the removal of the uterus, is usually left open, and its edges merely fall into apposition. The results of both methods in the hands of operators experienced in this class of work are among the most remarkable in surgery, and to ensure success the surgeon must exert himself to obtain a rigid asepsis aiid perfect hcemostasis; for this purpose it is essential to be extremely careful in the pre- paration of the patient for operation, as well as the materials and instruments used during the operation; the surgeon requires, above all things, to be scrupulously clean in regard to his own hands. The choice of operation, as well as the details of the methods, are those which the writer adopts at the present time, and they are the outcome of several hundred hyster- ectomies performed for a variety of condi- tions. Choice of Operation.—Cancer of the cer- vix suitable for operation is best removed through the vagina; even when it compli- cates pregnancy which has advanced to the seventh month, the foetus and placenta can be extracted, and the uterus successfully ex- tirpated. Fibroids coexisting with cervical cancer, unless they are very large, are not a bar to the vaginal hysterectomy, for they can be enucleated and extracted separately. Cancer of the body of the uterus some- times leads to great enlargement of the kig organ, then it is best removed by the ab- dominal route, but in a fair proportion of cases it is easily dealt with through the vagina. When cancer of the body of the uterus is com- plicated with a large fibroid, then abdominal hysterectomy is the only judicious course. There are conditions in which vaginal hyster- ectomy is a comparatively simple operation, for example, a small uterus and a capacious vagina; with the converse conditions the opera- tion is often difficult, and it requires experience to enable the surgeon to judge when the relation between the size of the uterus and vagina are favourable or the reverse for the purpose of vaginal hysterectomy. It occasionally happens that an attempt is made to remove the uterus by the vagina, but in the course of the opera- tion it is found impossible to extract the uterus, and the surgeon has to complete the work through an abdominal incision. Under such conditions some surgeons recommend removing the uterus and tumour piecemeal with the aid of the knife and scissors; this is termed mor- cellement. It is unwise to adopt this method with a cancerous uterus for fear of infecting the adjacent parts, and especially the peri- toneum, with cancer. It is better to remove the uterus by the vaginal method when the cancer is in the cervix, because a freer removal of the diseased parts is possible. When the disease is in the body of the uterus, abdominal hysterectomy affords opportunity for a wider removal of the parts than the vaginal method. These are 13.—Cancer of the uterus complicated with a submucous fibroid. The uterus is shown in coronal section. Removed by abdominal hysterectomy from a sterile spinster. good working rules, but the latter is the one which is open to the greatest number of exceptions. In operations of this kind a great deal de- pends upon the preliminary treatment of the patient, and for this pui'pose it is essential to have the assistance of a good nurse specially trained in this class of work. Such a nurse understands the methods of washing and dis- infecting the vagina and pudenda, is apt at passing the catheter, and without fuss arranges and prepares the patient. It is good practice to have such a nurse in attendance for at least forty-eight hours before the operation, so that she may shave the hair from the pubes and labia, and, after thoroughly washing them with soap and warm water, renders the cutaneous