TOXICOLOGY 56 of the stomach as to food being the principal determining factor. Occasionailj there is ex- treme collapse from the first, the gastro-in- testinal symptoms being relatively insignificant; in such cases death may occur in from six to twenty-four hours. Repeated injurious doses of arsenic are frequently given in cases of criminal poisoning, the symptoms being more or less modified in consequence. As the symptoms produced by a dose of the poison are passing off a second dose is given, which may be followed by others; the result is that certain symptoms which are more commonly met with in chronic arsenical poisoning are superadded : itching of the margins of the eyelids and reddening of the conjunctivae, with hypersemia of the mucous membrane of the fauces, causing the patient to have a sensation as of a hair in the throat, which he tries to dislodge by constant hawking. Numbness and tingling in the fingers and toes, tenderness of the muscles of the legs, and par- alysis of the feet, due to multiple neuritis, may severally occur, and, on more than one occasion, have followed a single large dose of arsenic. Death has resulted from the introduction of arsenic into the vagina, and also from the ap- plication of arsenical paste to morbid growths. Treatment.—The stomach should be washed out with the tube, and freshly precipitated ferric oxide administered. The oxide is pre- pared on the spot by adding some solution of ammonia or of potassium carbonate to the tincture of perchloride of iron ; the ferric oxide which is thrown down is strained off, and then given suspended in a little water. Demulcents and morphine, with the application of external warmth, should afterwards be resorted to. Fatal Dose.—Two grains of arsenious oxide have caused death. Recovery has taken place after a teaspoonful of powdered arsenious oxide. Death usually occurs in from twelve to forty- eight hours. Death has occurred in twenty minutes, and, not unfrequently, in from two to three hours. On the other hand, the fatal period has been prolonged to the sixth, eighth, and even the sixteenth day. In these instances there were remissions in the course of the symptoms. Post-mortem Appearances.—Externally there is nothing of significance. Internally the stomach presents signs of intense inflammation, the mucous membrane having a velvety appearance ; on the general red surface darker dots or streaks are usually seen, due to small haemorrhages ; occasionally there are more extensive submucous haemorrhages. The mucous membrane is some- times softened and easily detached; less fre- quently it is eroded, and very exceptionally the stomach wall has been perforated. In fatal poisoning, it is to be noted that by whatever channel the arsenic has obtained entry into the body—by application to a malignant ulcer, for example—the stomach will be found inflamed after death]; arsenic is partly eliminated through the stomach irrespective of the mode of adminis- tration. The duodenum also is usually in- flamed ; and occasionally the lower part of the intestinal canal, especially the rectum, shows signs of inflammation. When life has been prolonged beyond the usual period, and some- times when not so prolonged, the liver and kidneys show distinct appearances of fatty changes. Chronic Arsenical Poisoning.—When the ingestion of small doses of arsenic is spread over a prolonged period, the symptoms produced are diff"erent from those due to acute poisoning. Arsenic is well-nigh ubiquitous, and may be unconsciously received into the system in a variety of ways ; from the inhalation of particles given off by arsenical wall-papers, green baize, painted woodwork, and toys, and from its presence in minute quantities in many sub- stances which are taken with food. All food- stuffs into the preparation of which sulphuric acid enters are liable to be contaminated with arsenic. A very extensive outbreak of chronic arsenical poisoning occurred in 1900 in Man- chester and the neighbourhood due, as shown by Reynolds, to the introduction of arsenic into beer, through the unsuspected contamination of some of the ingredients manufactured with the aid of sulphuric acid used in brewing the beer. In certain trades chronic arsenical poisoning is liable to occur, as in furriers who dust the skins of the animals from which furs are obtained with various substances that act as preservatives, arsenic entering into the composition of some of these powders. Symptoms.—The early indications consist of disorders of the digestive system, along with headache, alternate constipation and diarrhoea, with loss of appetite. Then follow irritation of the eyelids with suffusion of the eyes ; laryngeal irritation; a red, moist, and painful condition of the soles of the feet and the palms of the hands; various skin eruptions—erythematous, urticarial, herpetic, bullous, or eczematous ; disorders of sensation in hands and feet, with excessive tenderness of the muscles of the legs, followed by more or less paralysis (multiple neuritis), with high-stepping or tabetic gait; keratosis of the hands and feet, especially the latter; pigmentation varying from freckle-like spots to complete bronzing of the surface. There is great tendency to heart-failure, and in fatal cases death is usually due to this cause. When recovery takes place it is very slow. The elimination of arsenic takes place primarily by the kidneys and bowels, and secondarily by the skin and its appendages. In the ordinary sense of the word, arsenic is not a cumulative poison, and when a single poisonous but not fatal dose is swallowed, elimination commences forth- with, and no evidence of the poison can be obtained from the urine later than ten or twelve