TUBERCULOSIS 128 of a degree of chronicity in tuberculosis as in other diseases, such as syphilis. Such changes develop very slowly, and after a time the central part may undergo very slow caseation. Lesions of the various Organs and Tissues. Tuberculosis of the Lungs Acute Miliary Tuberculosis.—This is the result usually of the breaking down of a primary focus in the lung, or in the bronchial or root glands, and escape of infective material contain- ing virulent tubercle bacilli into the blood stream, in which they may be detected during life. The immediate result is that bacilli are fairly uniformly scattered through the lung, and produce grey tubercles in the walls of the vesicles. On section these are seen to have no special relation to bronchi or interlobular septa, but are scattered over the whole of the cut surface, and appear as well under the pleura. Fre- quently they tend to be aggregated at the apex. As a rule the patient dies before the tubercles can break down. In most cases the tuberculosis is generalised throughout the body, particularly in children, and the membranes of the brain, liver, spleen, and, to a less extent, the kidneys, contain numerous grey nodules. The peri- cardiimi and heart are rarely affected. Micro- scopically the tubercles show relationship to the circulation by their connection with blood- vessels, and in small vessels may form a pro- jection in the intima. The latter appearance is not uncommon. Acute miliary tuberculosis can only arise when a tubercle involves and breaks through the wall of a still previous vessel of some size. In about half of the cases the pul- monary vein is involved (Coats). Lymphatic Miliary Tubercle.—The bacilli may also spread from a primary focus by way of lymphatics ; and the nodules are then seen in clusters in the adventitia of the bronchi and vessels, and in lines along the septa. They are not so uniformly scattered as in the case of the vascular tuberculosis, and are very frequently localised in the neighbourhood of the primary focus. For example, a band of tubercles may extend into the lung from a tuberculous gland, or if the primary focus is in the lung they ex- tend from that focus towards the root. More- over, the tuberculosis is not generalised through- out the body. Bearing in mind these characters, it is not extremely difficult to distinguish be- tween these two forms of miliary tuberculosis of the lungs. Hamilton considers that the lymphatic tubercles invariably possess giant cells, and that these characterise it, but, on the contrary, their absence is by no means characteristic of vascular miliary tubercle. Broncho-Pneumonic Tuberculosis.—Tuber- culosis most frequently attacks the lungs by way of the air passages. Out of 257 cases of pulmonary tuberculosis in children investigated by the writer, 173 showed the broncho-pneu- monic type, and in 26 others this type was combined with miliary tubercle, probably chiefly lymphatic in spread. The condition commences as an inflammation of the smaller bronchi—bronchiolitis—which assumes a tuberculous character, or is of that nature from the outset. It may also be secondary to a lymphatic invasion of its walls, this pi-oducing a lesion which gradually spreads towards the lumen, causing a tuberculous bronchitis, or it may arise from the bursting of a caseous focus into the lumen of the bronchus. In this form of the disease one must re- member certain factors which have an important bearing on its origin and progress, in children particularly. 1. The smaller bronchioles possess no carti- lage to strengthen their walls. They do possess, however, a complete encircling band of unstriped muscle, which is of great assistance to the short ciliated columnar epithelium lining their lumina in keeping them free and open. In inflamma- tion this muscularis mucosae becomes infiltrated with fluid and leucocytes, weakening it and interfering with its contractility. 2. Following certain diseases of childhood, e.g. measles and whooping-cough, bronchitis and other catarrhal conditions are apt to occur, and these may be looked upon as not improbably predisposing causes. 3. In bronchitis the epithelium tends to become detached in large pieces ; and 4. As a result of paralysis of the muscularis referred to above, the cast-off cells and exu- dation remain in situ. When the condition spreads to the infundibular passages, as they do not possess ciliated epithelium or nuiscularis mucosa, the exudation cannot be expelled. 5. If this bronchiolitis be not, as it probably usually is, primarily tuberculous, we have, consequently, a suitable nidus for the implanta- tion and development of the tubercle bacillus. Soon the manifestations dependent on its action appear. Caseation commences in the plug, and spreads to the walls of the bronchus. Mean- while a marked inflammatory reaction is spread- ing from the wall of the bronchiole out along the septa between the vesicles and in the vesicles themselves. In the former proliferation of the cells and of the endothelium of the capillaries occurs, producing great thickening of the septa. The vesicles become packed with large catarrhal cells and leucocytes, with a varying amount of fibrin. As the condition progresses a coherent mass tends to form, attached to the wall of the vesicle nearest the centre of the nodule. As the walls are gradu- ally becoming non-vascular the process of caseation gradually spreads outwards until a homogeneous, firm nodule has formed, in which, microscopically, the outline of bronchus and vesicles can with difficulty be made out.