417 VARICELLA Some of these names indicate that the disease was formerly regarded as a minor form or variety of variola or smallpox. Definition.—A very infectious disease, oc- curring chiefly in children, attended by little constitutional disturbance as a rule, and dis- playing on the first day an eruption of small red papules, which are soon converted into watery vesicles—the vesicles ultimately drying up, and giving place to small crusts. Etiology.—The disease is doubtless spread by a contagium derived from a previous case of the disease. Personal contact, or fomites, will convey the contagium. Up till the present time, so far as the writer is aware, no specific organism has been identified in the disease. Attempts at inoculating chicken- pox have been attended with doubtful or un- satisfactory results. The possibility of doing so may be regarded as an open question. Symptomatology.—The period of incubation is variously stated, but the writer puts it at thirteen days (for convenience, say a fortnight). Thomas gives thirteen to seventeen days. Trousseau fifteen to twenty-seven days. The following may be taken as a description of an ordinary attack of chicken-pox. At the end of a fortnight, dating from the time of ex- posure to the contagium, the patient feels " out of sorts "—perhaps there is loss of appetite, some giddiness, headache, or slight pain in the back. As a rule, there is little or no elevation of temperature, but in cases with a profuse rash there may be very considerable pyrexia. In many, perhaps most, cases of chicken-pox there are no prodromata. The rash appears on the first day in the form of small red papules. The spots appear on the chest, back, and limbs. There may be a few on the face, and they frequently occur on the scalp, where they are more easily felt by the patient than seen by the physician. The spots are converted into vesicles in the course of a day or so, and then present the appearance of little blisters or sacs, with clear watery contents, and each is sur- rounded by a red areola. It is worthy of note that the eruption of varicella occurs on the mucous surfaces as well as on the skin. It is found in the mouth, on the throat, etc. The contents of the vesicles become milky or opalescent, and in a few days more are converted into little scabs or crusts. When the drying stage commences there may be flattening or dimpling of the top of the vesicles. On removal, these crusts leave be- hind them marks or stains which subsequently disappear, but in some cases permanent pits or cicatrices are left. This latter result is, how- ever, exceptional. It is most likely to result from premature removal of the scabs by scratching, and the consequent formation of small ulcers which, on healing, leave scars. It vol. X must be admitted, however, that in some cases pits are left where there has been no mechanical irritation. In such cases the bed of the vesicle, being deep, has involved the true skin. It has been the custom to state that the vesicle of varicella is unilocular, while that of variola is multilocular, and this has been regarded as one of the means of distinguishing between the eruption of chicken-pox and that of smallpox. This view is not tenable in the light of our present knowledge. The statements of Unna {^Histopathology of the Diseases of the Skin, Walker's translation) on this point are so clear and precise that one cannot do better than quote his exact words: " I take the description of the eruption from a characteristic ' chicken-pox' which I excised from an eight-year-old boy on the second day of its existence. I choose this because it gives the most perfect contrast to the centrally depressed variola vesicle, for in it the most central point of the surface is the most elevated. It has a tent form. The lateral walls rise obliquely from a broad base towards the centre of the covering, which is formed by a few stretched, horny scales. From these, cellular partitions radiate downwards as in smallpox. The chicken-pock is consequently divided like the smallpock, but the point where the septa join lies here, not in the centre of the base of the pock, but on the covering." And again, at p. 639 (under Variola), he says: "The main character which distinguishes the vesicular formation in true smallpox (variola, varioloid) from that in chicken-pox consists, on the one hand, in the slow growth, on the other, in the prompt addition of suppuration to the fibrinoid degeneration, which obscures the effects of the latter." If the reader wishes a detailed and particular account of the pathological changes which bring about the formation of the varicellar eruption, he is referred to the volume just quoted, in which will also be found plates illustrating the points in question. The eruption of varicella may continue to come out in successive crops for a considerable time. The fresh crops may be accompanied by elevation of temperature. There are no complications to be noted in varicella, and there are, perhaps, no real sequelce to be dealt with. It is true, however, that in dirty and unhealthy children the soi'es which originate in the picking and scratching of the vesicles may give rise to troublesome conse- quences. Sir Dyce Duckworth, in his Lumleian Lectures on the Sequelce of Disease, says : " Vari- cella has no true sequels in respect of changes which may occur in the rash. Prurigo may result, so-called varicella prurigo (Hutchinson). Ecthymatous sores resembling pemphigus are sometimes met with. The vesicles may become 27