229 UNCONSCIOUSNESS permanently compromise the whole health or that of some important function. In many cases the sequelae may be attributed to the injury the brain suffers during the primary attack, probably from loss of nutrition in syncopal, and from congestion in the apo- plectic forms. Of the syncopal, asphyxial, and hyperpyrexial forms of insolation, the two latter appear to be the most important and dangerous, and are more liable to be attended with sequelae of a degenerative type. In children idiocy and imbecility may result from sunstroke. It must be remembered, however, that parents are ever ready to attribute the idiocy of their children to an accidental fall or blow, so that in any case of idiocy or imbecility attributed to the effects of sunstroke, the existence of an heredi- tary neurosis, the occurrence of fits, or other diseases, as well as the nature, extent, and immediate consequences of the attack, ought in great measure to be considered before making a diagnosis. Sometimes mental symptoms, such as delirium or excitement with hallucinations, are found intercurrent with the stupor and coma following the shock, and the condition may gradually become very similar to that of primary dementia. As a general rule, however, although there may be some trace left of the primary injury to the brain, the prognosis is more favourable in such cases than when the psychosis develops some months, or even years after the injury. The possession of an unstable nervous system is attended by a peculiar liability to easily succumb to the effects of heat. The writer has seen several cases of syncopal attacks, and even of an asphyxial character, occurring in imbeciles after exposure to a hot sun for a few hours, and their exceeding proneness to be affected in this manner renders it necessary to exercise care that they are not exposed unduly during the hot months. Epilepsy is one of the most com- mon of the sequelae of insolation, and occurs in various degrees of severity, from slight epilepti- form convulsions to the severest forms of the disease. Sometimes the epileptiform or apo- plectiform seizures of general paralysis of the insane have been mistaken for sunstroke. The frequent occurrence of epilepsy is suggestive, and, as in the cases of periodical psychoses already mentioned, the disorder appears to be a manifestation of an unstable vaso-motor state. Both idiocy and imbecility may be dependent upon early epilepsy, but the absence of spastic symptoms, contractures, and other deformities, together with the absence of progressive de- terioration associated with the convulsions, are characteristic of an acquired rather than a hereditary state ; and in epilepsy following upon sunstroke, the mental defects and convulsions are collateral phenomena, both depending upon the same cause, whilst the positive signs of alienism, such as anomalies of character and moral perversions, with defective or one-sided development of special faculties, all point to an acquired psychosis, in a great measure differing from the progressive deterioration of ordinary idiopathic or hereditary epilepsy. In adults episodical attacks somewhat analo- gous to epilepsy occur; thus there may be a periodical attack of depression, maniacal delirium, or even conditions closely resembling the mania- cal, epileptiform seizures of paretic dementia.^ Meningitis is sometimes ushered in by vertigo, or convulsions, or epileptic seizures. In the later stages the occurrence of coma is very frequent. The symptoms are so well known that they need be but briefly referred to here. In the early stages hypereesthesia, tremors, photophobia, illusions, and in children the char- acteristic hydrocephalic cry, are generally present. Later these symptoms are followed by drowsi- ness and apathy, or there may be delirium or paralysis of various forms. In the third stage there is anaesthesia, and coma may supervene. Paralysis becomes more pronounced, and convulsions increase in fre- quency and severity as the fatal end approaches. Sometimes the patient is able to rouse himself from the coma for a few days, but almost in- variably a relapse occurs. Drowsiness, coma, and collapse may be the only indications of what proves to be extensive meningitis. The symptoms are sometimes very similar to de- lirium tremens. The diagnosis of a tubercular origin must depend upon careful attention to the history of the patient. Profound coma is more liable to occur when the lateral ventricles are distended with fluid, and their parietes softened and compressed. Apoplexy, with effusion of blood between the cranium and dura mater, or from the subarach- noid tissue, or into the substance of the brain, may be due to lacerations from violence or rupture of diseased vessels. The attack usually comes on suddenly and unexpectedly, and there may be premonitory symptoms of local dis- turbances of the cerebral circulation. Of these symptoms the most important are numbness or tingling, loss of power, diplopia, and signs of paralysis. These symptoms, however, may be purely functional, or indicative of the presence • of a tumour or other circumscribed lesion. When actual effusion of blood has taken place the patient becomes aware of pain in the head and sudden giddiness followed by paralysis, or there may be syncope passing into coma and paralysis when the haemorrhage begins in the external capsule (Broadbent). Sometimes the attack is ushered in by convulsions followed by coma. The symptoms vary in severity very considerably according to the extent, nature, and locality of the lesion. When coma super- venes the patient is sometimes capable of being 1 " Lectures on the Diagnosis of Insanity," by Theo. B. Hyslop, Med. Press, February 1896.