VARIX 420 Va,rix.—A varicose swelling or dilated and tortuous vein. See Aneurysm (Aneurismal Varix); Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Malforma- tions and Congenital Anomalies, Lymphatic Varix); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of [Lymph Scrotum or Varix Lymphaticus). Var n i S h - M ak i n g.—An offensive trade, as defined by the Public Health Act, 1875, and the Public Health (Scotland) Act of 1897. Varolii, Pons. See Pons and Cross References. Varus.—The deformity in which there is inversion of the foot. See Deformities [Halhix Varus, Talipes Varus, Genu Varum). VaS.—A vessel or tube (plural, vasa); e.g. the vas deferens (excretory duct of the testicle), vasa afferentia (lymphatics going to a lymphatic gland), vasa vasorum (vessels supplying the walls of the larger blood-vessels). See Scrotum AND Testicle, Diseases of ; Arteries, Diseases OF; Veins, Diseases of. Vascularisation. — The act of be coming rich in blood-vessels or of developing vessels. Vasectomy. — Resection of the vas deferens, as in diseases of the prostate gland. Prostate Gland (Hypertrophy, Operative Treat- ment). Vaseline. See Paraffin {Paraffinum Molle). Vasicin. — An alkaloid obtained from Adhatoda vasica, the leaves of which are official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the B.P. for 1898; it has been used in bronchitis (like senega) and in dyspepsia, and as an insecticide. Vasifbrm.—Resembling a vessel, tubular; e.g. vasiform tissue, or tissue largely composed of vessels. VaSO-.—In compound words vaso- has the meaning of vascular or belonging to a vessel; e.g. vaso-constrictor (caiising contraction of a vessel), vaso-dilator (causing relaxation of a vessel), vaso-formative or vaso-factive (forming vessels), vaso-inhibitory (inhibiting vaso-motor action), vaso-motor (causing constriction or dila- tation of vessels), vasoparesis (paresis affecting vaso-motor nerves). See Angina Pectoris ( Vari- eties, Vaso-motor Angina); Bed-Sores [Clinical Varieties, Acute Bed-Sore, Causes) ; Erythema [Pathology and Etiology); Headache [Migraine); Nerves, Neuralgia [Etiology); Physiology, Circulation [Blood - Pressure, Regulation of); Syringomyelia [Symptoms); Thyroid Gland, Medical [ExojMhalmic Goitre, Symptoms). VaSOg'en.—Oxygenated vaseline. VaSOtrlbe.—An instrument for control- ling hjemorrhage by crushing the vessels; an angiotribe. Vastus. — Large, widespread, e.g. the vastus muscle which forms part of the quadri- ceps extensor cruris. Vater'S Ampulla.—The cavity into which the bile and pancreatic ducts open before their contents pass through the bile papilla into the intestine; a small vertical fold of mucous membrane in the ampulla is called Vater's Fold. Vater'S Corpuscles. —Pacinian bodies. See Skin, Anatomy and Physiology [Nerves, Terminal Corpuscles). Veal. See Invalid Feeding (Veal Panada). Vecordia.—Insanity or idiocy. Vectis.—An obstetrical instrument resem- bling the single blade of a pair of forceps; a lever. See Labour, Obstetric Operations ( Vectis). Vector.—A suggested obstetric instrument to cause dilatation of the vagina in delayed labour and so prepare for the passage of the child's head. Vegetables. See Diet (Vegetable Foods); Invalid Feeding (Vegetables); Invalid Feeding [Diet in Old Age and in Diabetes); Scurvy in Adults [Treatment). Vegetarian Diet.—A diet consisting almost wholly of vegetable food. See Gout [Dietetic Treatment). Vegetations.—Growths or excrescences found in hollow organs or in body canals; e.g. the fibrinous projections found on the valves of the heart in disease, adenoid growths of the pharynx, and urethral papillomata. See Heart, Myo- cardium and Endocardium [Malignant Endo- carditis, Pathology). Vehicle. — That part of a prescription which serves as the medium of administration of the active drug or drugs; an excipient, dry or moist. See Prescribing [Prescriptions, Com- ponent Parts). Veins, Diseases of. Anatomy and Physiology— 1. Structure of Veins . . .421 2. Venous Systems . . . .421 3. Venous Flow . ■ .421 Thrombosis and Phlebitis— 1. Etiology of Thrombosis . .421 2. Pathology 422 3. Phlebitis. Etiology and Pathology 423 4. Clinical Types . • . .423 5. Treatment 424 6. Pulmonary Embolism . . . 424 7. Septic Phlebitis . . . .424