423 VEINS, DISEASES OF later weakness of the muscles and heaviness and pain. The symptoms are practically indistinguish- able from those of the phlebitis which accom- panies it. Recovery may be brought about by the en- largement of collateral channels or by the canalisation of the thrombus and restoration of the original channels, but it is a slow process when a large vessel is involved. Embolism.—-The dislodgment of a thrombus may occur either from mechanical causes, such as sudden movements or undue fingering of the part, or from softening and disintegration of the clot from septic changes in it. In the former case the subsequent symptoms are due to the mechanical interference with the circula- tion of the part in which the embolus lodges, while in the latter the infective nature of the embolus loads to the formation of widely dis- seminated foci of suppuration and to a condi- tion of pyaemia. Following the course of the blood-stream, the embolus is carried first to the right side of the heart, and thence to the pul- monary artery, where it may be arrested and produce a pulmonary embolism, and such an occurrence is a frequent cause of sudden death. If the clot be smaller, and able to pass through the capillaries, it may pass to any other organ, and as such small emboli are often of a septic character, secondary abscesses are produced in the liver, kidneys, or joints, or in fact in any tissue of the body. Phlebitis.~Etiology.—Phlebitis may arise in those conditions in which the vein is exposed to injury or irritation directly, as in wounds, burns, etc.; but the phlebitis in such cases is, as a rule, slight, and does not attract special attention. Much more important are those forms in which the phlebitis arises apparently without any external local cause, and is accompanied by thrombosis. Much discussion has taken place on the question as to whether the thrombosis is the primary condition or is secondary to the phlebitis. It is known by experiment that mere stasis of blood in a vessel, if the vessel is healthy, does not produce coagulation, and it has therefore been supposed that the phlebitis is the primary condition. There is no doubt, however, that the walls of the veins are oc- casionally diseased, and exhibit appearances similar to those found in atheromatous arteries, with degenerative changes (endophlebitis ob- literans), and in such conditions it is possible that there may have been no acute affection of the vessel wall previously. Atheroma may be more frequently present as a cause of phlebitis than is suspected, since thrombosis will more readily occur in a vein that is diseased than in a corresponding artery, as the flow of blood is slower. The phlebitis is, however, usually the primary condition, and is due to a variety of causes, mostly of a constitutional nature, such as gout, antemia, convalescence from many ill- nesses, especially influenza and typhoid fever. A varicose condition of the veins always is a predisposing factor in the etiology. The inflammation may attack one or other of the coats of a vein, but the walls are so thin that it is impossible to recognise the different forms clinically. The inflammation may be of a simple plastic kind, or septic in character, the infection in such cases usually affecting the vein from with- out, and a chronic form of phlebitis occurs, frequently in syphilitic subjects. Clinical Features. — Phlebitis is specially liable to occur in varicose veins, especially in the dilated veins of the rectum or lower limb. The inflammatory changes are accompanied by the classic signs of pain, redness, heat, and swelling, and the impaired function of the vessel consequent on the thrombosis produces characteristic swelling and oedema in the lower parts of a limb. The pain may be dull and aching or sharp and shooting in character, and the swollen, red appearance along the line of the vessels is typical when a superficial vein is affected. There is tenderness, and on feeling the part a firm cord can be felt. The oedema is very marked in some forms, especially the gouty, but the free anastomosis between superficial veins may render it only slight. The firm cords present swellings at the position of the valves, but the parts must be examined with great caution. Clinical Groups. — 1. Phlegmasia alba dolens, occurring notably in childbed, but also occurring in convalescence from typhoid fever, is shown by a rise of temperature to about 102° for some days, by severe pain, and by a characteristic oedema of the limb. 2. Anaemic or chlorotic form, forms a clinical entity, though its etiology is obscure, and is accompanied by the usual phenomena of the disease. Both lower limbs are frequently affected, and there is a rise of temperature lasting about a week, with considerable pain and oedema of the limbs. 3. Gouty phlebitis is a common form, occur- ring in gouty subjects frequently apart from an acute attack. It frequently affects both limbs, and shows a tendency to shift from one vein to another. There is aching pain and tender- ness which lasts for days, and there is consider- able oedema of the parts below, the swelling being very tense in character. Such forms are very liable to embolism. 4. During convalescence from certain diseases phlebitis may appear, and the diseases after which it is most liable to occur are typhoid fever, influenza, and pneumonia. After typhoid, phlebitis usually occurs in a mild form, while the post-influenzal form is more acute and severe.