TREMOR 106 Tremor is often an essential element of a rigor, and is not unfrequently associated with pain and an elevation of temperature in cases of renal and other forms of coUc. A morbid entity consisting of severe parox- ysmal attacks of tremor accompanied by loss of consciousness and some fever has been de- scribed, but little is known of this rare condi- tion except that the prognosis appears to be favourable. Syphilis in its more remote influence on the nervous system is sometimes productive of tremor, and the early diagnosis of general paralysis of the insane is often rendered easy by the very characteristic tremor of the lips and tongue, which may be very noticeable, and which doubtless largely contributes to the peculiar articulation observed in these patients. Lead, mercury, arsenic, copper, and zinc are responsible for most cases of tremor due to metallic poisoning, and the symptom is most commonly present in the upper extremities and sometimes in the muscles of the face. The oscillations are usually fine and rapid, but in some mercurial cases coarse movements affecting the whole body are met with. As is well known, most narcotics are primarily stimulants, but the tremor which is produced by their habitual abuse must be accounted a symptom of the secondary narcotism, and it is interesting to note that the tremor of a chronic alcoholic subject or of a morphomaniac may be temporarily controlled by a dose of alcohol or of morphia, the tremor reappearing as the stimulative effect of the dose wears off. Alcohol, morphia, and tobacco are the best-known members of this group of poisons, but a fine tremor of the extremities is also common in patients suffering from bromidism. (B) The four diseases, neurasthenia, rheuma- toid arthritis, paralysis agitans, and Graves' disease, are purposely placed together because they appear in more ways than one to be re- lated, and to belong to a group of which the pathology is still obscure. The tremor of some neurasthenics is extremely suggestive of Graves' disease, and some cases of rheumatoid arthritis resemble paralysis agitans in having either a hemiplegic or diplegic distribution of tremor, which, combined with the rigidity caused by joint troubles, gives the patients a strong resem- blance to cases of Parkinson's disease. More- over, all four diseases present trophic disorders of skm, nails, etc., which can hardly fail to attract attention as being of practically the same kind. The tremulousness is, in the first instance, always limited to the extremities in these diseases. The tremor of paralysis agitans deserves a little more attention in that it serves as a good general example of the phenomenon. The movements are repeated from three to seven times a second, and their size and rapidity vary with the size of the muscle affected. In some cases the most pro- minent movement is that of the thumb against the first finger (cigarette-rolling), and the oscil- lations may be fine and limited in extent. Another common rhythmic action is that of alternate pronation and supination of the wrist, and then both the intermittence and size of the movement are greater. Only in more advanced stages of the disease does the tremor attack the proximal parts of the limbs and the muscles of the head and trunk, which are generally the seat of great rigidity. (C) The diseases of the last group are alike in presenting well-known anatomical lesions of the central nervous system and in being char- acterised by spasticity and tremor of varying degree and severity. The tremor in each case is called into existence or exaggerated by efforts of voluntary activity, and is of a coarse and not very co-ordinate type. A spontaneous ankle clonus occurring in an extremely spastic patient is a good specimen of this kind of tremor, which can hardly be placed in the same category as, and deserves a different name from, the finer movements seen in exophthalmic goitre or chronic alcoholism. The rate of the oscillations in disseminate sclerosis varies from four to eight per second, but the excursions of the affected limb are not of constant size. Certain cases of hemiplegia and of diplegia present a form of intention ti'emor which cannot be distinguished from that of disseminate sclerosis, but we are still ignorant of the anatomical basis for this phenomenon; it can only be said that disease in the mesencephalic region of the brain appears to be most frequently associated with it. Diagnosis.—A knowledge of the conditions under which tremor occurs is of great practical value, but the diagnosis of a disease can rarely be made from the character of the tremor alone in any particular case. It is true that the tremor of paralysis agitans is very characteristic in many patients, but it is usually associated with such an unmistakable picture in other respects that even its absence would not dis- count the diagnosis. All other forms of fine tremor are not easily differentiated on their own merits, and the coarse intention movements of disseminate sclerosis may not infrequently be seen in cases of hemiplegia, diplegia, or cerebral tumour. The accompanying signs and symptoms must, therefore, be always carefully considered before arriving at any definite conclusion. Pathology.—Enough has already been said to show that our knowledge of the morbid process concerned in the production of tremor is too insufficient to allow of any dogmatic statements to be made on this point, but it must be granted that in many cases the phenomenon would seem to result from the action of poisons on some part of the motor neurons, and probably on the cellular part of those structures. It may be