VENESECTION 433 occurrence of a free uterine haemorrhage is followed by a very marked improvement in the symptoms, and in some cases has apparently been the means of saving the patient's life. The manner of action in such cases is probably identical with that already described. In cases where venesection is indicated the use of transfusion of saline fluids (see "Trans- fusion "), or the subcutaneous or rectal injection of neutral salines, may be a very useful adjunct to treatment. Venom. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes. Venous.—Relating to veins or to the blood in veins; e.g. a venous hum (see Chlorosis, Symptoms, Bruit de diable), venous ncevus (see Capillaries, Diseases of), venous pulsation (see Pulse, Venous and Liver Pulsations), etc. Venter.—The abdomen or belly ; also, the fleshy part of a muscle. See Abdomen. Ventilation and Warming-. The Problem op Ventilation . . 433 Amount of Air necessary per Person per Hour 436 Extraction Systems .... 437 Open fire with Flues . . .437 Ventilating Grates or Stoves . . 438 Ventilating Shafts .... 438 Coivls 438 Inlets and Outlets .... 438 Plenum or Propulsion Systems . . 439 Notes on Warming .... 439 1. The Problem.—The problems associated under the term Ventilation arise out of the relation of the lung-breathing organisms to their environment. For simplicity, these problems may be studied on the human organism, but all the higher mammals, in their degrees, re- quire similar conditions. If a human being always lived in the " open air," there would be no problem of ventilation ; for the organism would absorb from the air precisely the amount of oxygen necessary for perfect respiration, and discharge into the air a certain amount of carbonic acid, aqueous vapour, and the other metabolic impurities that issue normally by the lungs. If the air became disagreeable, or un- wholesome, as from offensive gases, from marshes, or fires, or volcanoes, or factories, or decompos- ing organic materials of any sort, the ventila- tion problem could be solved by walking away ; but where the open air of a region becomes too impure for respiration, ventilation in the ordinary sense is not a remedy. The real problem of ventilation arises from the fact that to live at all in a variable climate the human organism requires shelter; the shelter being necessarily limited, rapidly accumulates impurities, and as these would, in concentration, become fatal, they must either be reduced to an amount vol. X compatible with physiological living, or, if possible, be altogether eliminated. The central problem of ventilation, therefore, is how to maintain, within a partially closed space occupied by a human being, the same quality of atmo- sphere as may be obtained in an open healthy locality. 2. The chief factors in the solution of this problem are the following :—- First, the composition of average, unpolluted air. Second, organismal pollutions—respiration. Third, environmental pollutions—combustion of coal, coal-gas, paraffin or other oils, candles, or other substances used for lighting or heating ; pollution from floors, drains, walls, domestic industries, as cooking, washing, etc. Fourth, the physiological standard of air- purity. Fifth, the dynamics of ventilation, and ven- tilation systems. The relation of ventilation to warming will emerge in the exposition of these five topics, which form a related sequence. Some further notes on warming will be appended. 3. First, the Composition of Air.—The com- position of average country air free from aqueous vapour is, according to Haldane, as follows :— Oxygen ..... By volume, 20'94 Nitrogen , ,, 78-09 Argon, with traces of metargon, xenon, crypton, neon, helium, and hydrogen . . . ,, ,, 0'94 Carbonic acid . . . • >, 0'03 Total . . . .100-00 Normally, air contains aqueous vapour in amounts depending on temperature and pressure, traces of ammonia, traces of sodium salts and other mineral substances, organic matter, par- ticulate or gaseous, micro-organisms, including moulds and bacteria, dust of various degrees of fineness. For ventilation, the ingredients of primary importance are the oxygen, the nitrogen, the carbonic acid, the aqueous vapour, and the organic matter, living and dead. The others may be neglected. Oxygen.—This gas is indispensable to meta- bolism. On the slight variations in the amount of oxygen depends mainly the wholesomeness or unwholesomeness of the air in a locality. Dr. Anarus Smith found that it varies from 20-999 per cent (by volume) on an open heath in Scotland to 20-980 in an open space in London in summer; 20-650 in the Court of Queen's Bench, 2nd February 1866, and 18-270 in a badly-ventilated mine. If, however, abun- dance of air be available for ventilation, the exact percentage of oxygen is not very material; but when the percentage is high, ventilation is easier, and certainly localities where there is a very high percentage are healthier. 28