10 THYROID GLAND, MEDICAL SECTION of myxoedema there is chronic granular kidney as well. In acromegaly there is an actual enlargement of the bony and other structures of the face and limbs, which gives quite a different aspect to the patient to the subcutaneous swelling of myxoedema. Prognosis.—Formerly the prognosis of myxoe- dema was a gloomy one, as the disease gradually progressed to a fatal termination. At most some temporary arrest or slight improvement during warm weather was to be expected. The duration was not uncommonly as much as five or ten years, and in a few cases twenty, or thirty. Now the prognosis is very favourable, as under treatment all the symptoms in any early case disappear and do not return as long as a sufficient amount of thyroid extract is taken. In more advanced cases also, if no incurable degeneration of an important organ has occurred, complete recovery takes place. Thus my first case, who began to be treated in 1891, more than eleven years ago, still takes one drachm of thyroid extract in the course of each week, and remains quite free from any sj'mptoms of myxoedema. The presence of well-marked cardiac degen- eration, renal disease, or insanity naturally in- creases the gravity of the prognosis, though even in these cases great improvement may take place. Treatment.—In the treatment of myxoedema the thyroid gland may be employed in several different forms. The raw, fresh gland of the sheep may be given finely minced and mixed with glycerine, the usual dose being from one- eighth to one-quarter of a lobe. As a rule, however, it is much better to employ one of the two official preparations, liquor thyroidei or thyroideum siccum. On the average, each lobe of the sheep's thyroid gland yields eight grains of dry thyroid powder, or 48 minims of thyroid extract. Thus, one-eighth of a lobe of the fresh gland = rri vj. of liquor thyroidei = gr. j. of thyroideum siccum. The liquor should be prescribed undiluted, the dose being measured out in minims, and water added at the time it is taken. It is advisable to obtain a fresh supply once a fortnight. Dry thyroid may be prescribed in either a powder, pill, or tablet. The treatment of a case of myxoedema is conveniently divided into two stages. During the first our object is to get rid of all the symptoms, and so restore the patient to health ; during the second stage we have to maintain the condition arrived at by the first. It must, of course, always be remembered that cessation of treatment will be followed by a return of the symptoms. During the first stage of the treatment of an advanced case of myxoedema it is advisable to keep the patient in the house, or even in bed if any symptoms of degeneration of the cardiac muscle are present, such as feeble or irregular pulse, dyspnoea on exertion, or weak heart sounds. In such cases only a small dose should be given at first, three minims of thyroid extract or half a grain of dry thyroid each night at bed-time being sufficient for the first week. If this dose is well borne, it may be gradually increased up to ten or twelve minims of the former or two grains of the latter preparation by the end of the second or third week. This dose may be continued steadily until all the symptoms of the disease have dis- appeared, when the first stage of the treatment is completed. The second stage of necessity lasts as long as the patient lives. During this stage it is necessary to give an amount of thyroid extract each day equivalent to the daily output of secretion from a healthy thyroid gland. As a rule one drachm of liquor thyroidei each week is quite sufficient, ten minims being taken every week-day at bed-time. Thus, for example, my first case, who has been treated for more than eleven years, takes this amount regularlj^, and remains free from all symptoms of myxoedema. In some cases seven minims are quite sufficient for the permanent daily dose. I have not found it necessary to give more than ten minims in any case. In slight cases it is not necessary to confine the patient to the house, and ten minims of the extract may be ordered from the commencement of the treatment. In these cases it is probable that a portion of the thyroid gland still retains its functional activity, so that when the first stage of the treatment is completed the perma- nent dose for the second stage may be rather smaller than in the advanced cases, where the gland is probably quite functionless. Five or seven minims of the extract each night have pi'oved to be sufficient in some of my cases. The most striking results of the treatment carried out in the manner just described are seen in advanced cases of myxoedema. In these,, in the course of from two to six months the symptoms all disappear. The temperature gradually rises to normal, the subcutaneous swelling is gradually removed, and the face resumes its normal expression and appearance. If there has been alopecia the hair grows again. Full strength and energy are regained, and the limbs can once more be freely and actively moved. The mental hebetude is removed, the hallucinations disappear, and actual insanity has in some cases been cured. The total amoimt of urea in the urine is increased, the red corpuscles increase in number, and, if the menopause has not been reached, menstruation is re-established. In fact, if no incurable de- generative changes have occurred in the heart or other organ the patient is restored to health. Exophthalmic Goitre History.—During the earlier part of last century several cases of what we now know to