44 TONSILS, DISEASES OF occasionally an acute tonsillitis may be due to a pure monococcal infection. When streptococci predominate the consti- tutional symptoms are liable to be more severe. If the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus be present the case should be considered diphtheritic, even though clinically identical with lacunar tonsillitis. Parenchymatous tonsillitis is characterised by inflammation of the lymphoid and deeper tissues of the gland; the latter is often much swollen, and eventually suppuration (" quinsy") may result. Peritonsillitis signifies an inflammation which is supposed to commence in the connective tissue bed in which the tonsil lies. Probably the infection arises from one of the neighbour- ing lacunae, or even more often from the supra- tonsillar fossa, in which region the peritonsillar abscess most frequently points. In acute ulcerative tonsillitis a well-defined ulcer (or ulcers) with slightly raised edges of varying size, and covered by a greyish slough, occupies more or less of the surface of an uninflamed tonsil. Staphylococci, streptococci, and a rod- shaped bacillus staining with methyl-blue, have been found in connection with the ulcers. Symptoms.—The onset of lacunar tonsillitis is usually ushered in by feelings of general malaise, sore throat, and fever. Sometimes the latter takes the form of a rigor. With the rapid increase of the inflammation, the quickened pulse, pyrexia varying from 101° to 103°, foul tongue, constipated bowels, febrile urine, and general prostration, all indicate the severity of the toxfemia, which may be further manifested by a fine erythematous rash which occasionally appears on the body. To the same cause must be attributed certain forms of endocarditis which may appear during an attack of tonsillitis not necessarily of rheumatic origin. Such general symptoms are more marked in lacunar than in peri- or parenchymatous tonsillitis, in which affections the pain in swallowing and other local symptoms are more pronounced. In these forms the dysphagia may be so severe that the patient, rather than swallow even his saliva, will allow it to dribble from the mouth. When the tonsils are much swollen the voice is thick and guttural, and the breathing may be noisy, especially at night. Deafness, earache, and tinnitus indicate an extension of the inflammation to the pharyngeal orifices of the Eustachian tubes and nasopharyn- geal mucosa. Examination of the throat in lacunar tonsil- litis will reveal the crypts filled with a yellowish exudation which may often be wiped away without difficulty. Both tonsils and the sur- rounding faucial tissues may be much inflamed, although the inflammation may at first be limited to one gland. In peritonsillitis and parenchymatous inflam- mation, the tonsil, with the neighbouring tissues and submaxillary glands, may be so inflamed that any movements of the head, especially opening the mouth, are very painful, and the general discomfort of the patient is greatly increased. At first one tonsil is usually inflamed and much swollen, but not uncommonly the sub- sidence of the inflammation is followed by acute symptoms in the other gland. In these forms of tonsillitis suppuration often occurs some four to five days from the onset of the disease, the abscess in peritonsillitis tending to point in the region of the supratonsillar fossa. In such a case the soft palate is much swollen above and in front of the tonsil, and should the pus not be evacuated by the surgeon, it will eventually burst into the mouth and thus aff"ord rapid relief to all the symptoms. In septic or " hospital sore throat" grey membranous patches may be found on the tonsils (or fauces), and in the former case are due to suppuration of the lymphoid follicles. Lacunar inflammation may be associated with these appearances. The general symptoms of malaise, pyrexia, etc., indicate the toxic nature of the disease. Acute ulcerative tonsillitis is met with in weakly, ansemic individuals, and gives rise to few constitutional symptoms. The neighbour- ing lymphatic glands are not enlarged. Prognosis.—This is almost invariably good. During the early days of tonsillitis in children the possibility of a developing exanthem must be borne in mind. Apart from the intensely septic and gangrenous forms which may be followed by visceral complications, tonsillitis is rarely a fatal disease. Diagnosis.—Lacunar tonsillitis is the only form of inflammation which may give rise to difficulties of diagnosis, for in some cases it may be impossible from clinical appearances and symptoms to say whether the disease be diph- theria or lacunar tonsillitis. This will be especially the case when both maladies are prevalent in the some locality. For example, in a certain case of diphtheria the membrane may be limited to the tonsils and even to the orifices of the lacunae, there may be no albumin in the urine, the general asthenia may not be marked, but in the course of a few weeks para- lytic sequelse develop, and meanwhile the possi- bility of disseminating the disease has been unrestrained. On the other hand, in a case of lacunar tonsillitis the exudate from one crypt may fuse with that of its neighbour, it may not be easy to remove it, albumin may be present in the urine, especially if the temperature be high, and the submaxillary glands may be en- larged, while the patient may be in a low, asthenic condition. Therefore in all doubtful cases the patient should be isolated while a bacteriological investigation is being made. If the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus be found the case