URIC ACID 265 Origin op Uric Acid in the Organism.— Although in all probability the synthetic mode of origin in mammals is of minor importance when compared to the purin source, still it is one which is of great interest, and as it seems to be the main one in birds where uric acid con- stitutes the principal nitrogenous effete product, it will be taken up first of all. The earlier observations on birds and snakes dealt mainly with the question of the seat of origin, either by noticing the effects of removal of different organs, or by examining various tissues in order to dis- cover whether any particular one was richer in uric acid than the others, and hence more likely to be the seat of origin. Von Schroeder found that even after removal of the kidneys in birds and snakes, uric acid accumulated in the blood and tissues, thus proving at least that the kidneys were not the sole seat of uric acid formation. Meissner found uric acid both in the blood and liver of birds, but most largely in the latter, and so concluded that it probably was the seat of origin. Von Knieriem found that amido-acids, such as glycocoll, aspartic acid, and leucin produced an increase; but neither ammonium chloride nor sulphate pro- duced an appreciable effect upon the excretion. Subsequently, however, von Schroeder found that, just as in mammals, the only ammonium salts that could be synthetised were those which could be converted into the carbonate in the organism, this beingthe reason why von Knieriem obtained no effect from giving the sulphate and chloride. The last-mentioned investigator sur- mised that ammonium lactate might be the important forerunner, but it was not until Minkowski published his very important work that our knowledge of the subject was based on sure experimental evidence. In an elaborate series of experiments on geese he showed that, if the liver were removed in its entirety, practi- cally all the uric acid disappeared from the urine, while its place was taken by ammonium sarcolactate. The reason that he gave for the persistence of a small uric acid excretion even after removal of the liver was that another mode of origin existed, similar to that in mammals, namely, from nuclein sources, and this hypo- thesis he based upon results obtained by von Mach, who gave, on Minkowski's suggestion, hypoxanthin to geese before and after removal of the liver. He found that under both con- ditions this purin body could be converted into uric acid. Although the importance of those investiga- tions can scarcely be over-estimated, one must remember that the mere fact that the birds lived for so short a period after the operation (6 to 18 hours), makes the experiments less conclusive than they would otherwise be. Hoppe- Seyler and Araki suggested that the results might be due to the increased production of sarcolactic acid as a result of the disturbance in oxidation processes, and that the rise in ammonia was required to neutralise the abnormal amount of acid. Minkowski answered those objections by showing that an operation of almost equal severity, entailing as great a general disturbance, did not produce an increased sarcolactic acid excretion. Lang showed that after removal of the liver from geese, not only was there an increase in the ammonia excretion, b\it also a decided rise in the mono-amido acids. In support of Minkowski's views the author has shown that acids on being given to birds produce a very marked diminution in uric acid and a corresponding increase in ammonia, similar to the effects produced by acids in carni- vorous mammals when the urea is replaced in part by ammonium salts. He was unable to find a direct transformation of hypoxanthin to uric acid, at least certainly not to the same extent as von Mach describes, and all his experi- ments went to prove that in birds the purin mode of origin was of minor importance com- pared to the synthetic one from ammonium salts {vide Wiener). It is possible that the nitrogen of the purin bodies may be split off in some cases in the form of ammonia, and may then, of course, be synthetised. Wiener, in a recent paper on the synthesis of uric acid, refers especially to the nitrogen-free partner in the synthesis, and concludes that tartronic acid may be the body, the process probably running as follows. Tartronic acid unites with one molecule of urea to form dialuric acid, and this in its turn combines with a second molecule of urea to form uric acid, thus— NH2 COOH NH-CO II II (1) CO + CHOH = CO CHOH + 2H2O II II NH, COOH NH—CO (Urea.) (Tartronic acid.) (Dialuric acid.) NH—CO NH—CO II I i CO CHOH + NHo. CO C—NH. I I '\C0 = 1 II >C0 + 2H„0 NH-CO NH/ NH-C—NH/ (Dialuric acid.) (Urea.) (Uric acid.) Whether this possible synthesis is the actual one occurring in the organism of the bird is still doubtful, and although this author's ex- periments seem to favour the theory that a similar synthesis occurs in man, still, as he himself remarks, its importance compared to the purin origin is probably not great. In mammals there can be no doubt that the purin- holding substances constitute the main source of uric acid, and Minkowski in his most recent investigations comes to the conclusion that in dogs, at least, the synthetic mode of origin is of extremely slight importance, if it exists at all. The purin mode of origin is undoubtedly the most important one in mammals. Thus after a diet rich in nucleins (nucleo-proteids)