272 UEINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN suppression may occur, but in chronic inter- stitial nephritis the output is usually markedly increased, and the same is often observed in the later stages of chronic parenchymatous affections and in many cases of lardaceous disease of the kidneys. The influence of ascites in diminishing the flow of urine, and in so establishing a vicious circle, is well recognised, and this influence is probably due to pressure xvpon the abdominal vessels and a resulting diminution of the flow of blood through the kidneys. As is only to be expected, when large quan- tities of water are being lost by the bowels in diseases attended by diarrhoea the quantity of urine shows a conspicuous diminution, and actual suppression of urine may result from obstruction of the ureters, as in cases in which one kidney has been previously rendered useless and the ureter of the only active kidney becomes blocked by a calculus. Polyuria is a conspicuous symptom of diabetes mellitus, and far larger quantities still are passed in the remarkable cases which are grouped together under the name of diabetes insipidus. In not a few nervous diseases polyuria may occur, and whereas in hysteria and under the influence of emotions the excess is usually transitory, when the nerve centres are the seats of organic disease it tends to have a more per- manent character. In conclusion, mention must be made of the intermittent passage of large quantities of urine as a valuable diagnostic sign in cases of advanced unilateral hydronephrosis with intermittent emptying of the sac. Specific Gravity.—As so often carried out with isolated specimens of urine, the determina- tion of the specific gravity loses much of its value. Much more useful results are obtained when a specimen is taken from the collected urine of twenty-four hours, and more viseful ones still when the specific gravity is calculated for an average daily excretion of 1500 c.c. Low specific gravity may be due to excessive excretion of water, the total solids being normal in amount, but when the quantity is not in- creased it indicates a diminished output of solid ingredients. Similarly an unusually high specific gravity may indicate diminished water or an excessive excretion of solids. In health this factor varies considerably at different periods of the day, to a great extent in- versely to the quantity of urine passed. The mean specific gravity of the urine of healthy adults is about 1020. Under abnormal conditions it may fall as low as 1002, or may rise above 1040. For clinical purposes the specific gravity of urine is determined by means of the urinometer, an instrument too familiar to call for descrip- tion. The urine to be tested should be allowed to cool to the temperature of the air, and should be gently poured, so that frothing is avoided, into a clean cylindrical vessel of considerably greater diameter than that of the urinometer. The instrument is then allowed to sink slowly into the liquid, and after it has come to rest it should be slightly depressed and allowed to float up again. The reading should then be taken from the lower meniscus. As a rule polyuria is attended by diminution of specific gravity, but to this rule diabetes mellitus offers a conspicuous exception, and the association of excessive excretion with high specific gravity, 1030-1040, in itself affords strong evidence of the presence of sugar. On the other hand, it must not be forgotten that sugar may be present in a urine the specific gravity of which is not above the normal, and the routine testing for sugar should not be omitted on that account. In diabetes insipidus the specific gravity of the urine may be but little above that of pure water, and in some cases of chronic interstitial nephritis also very low readings are obtained. The con- centrated and highly albuminous urines of patients with acute nephritis have, on the con- trary, a high specific gravity, and the adminis- tration of certain drugs which are excreted in the urine also has an elevating effect. In the latest stages of chronic diseases, when metabolism is at a low ebb, the urine passed is often scanty in amount and at the same time of low specific gravity, owing to the scantiness of the solid constituents. Freezing-Point; Cryoscopy of Urine.—The property of urine most recently utilised for clinical purposes is the freezing-point, and as the alterations in the freezing-point under morbid conditions have been widely studied, since attention was first called to them by A. von Koranyi in 1887-88, it will be well to give some description of the apparatus devised by Beckmann which is employed in such deter- minations. The liquid to be tested is placed in a large test-tube, which can be closed by a cork with two bores. Through one bore is introduced a special thermometer of great delicacy, gradu- ated to hundredths of a degree between + 1 and - 4° C. Through the other orifice is introduced a metallic stirrer, by means of which the liquid around the thermometer is kept in constant motion during the determination. The tube is enclosed in a somewhat larger one which acts as an air-jacket and ensures equal cooling of the liquid contained in the inner tube. Both tubes are then placed in a vessel containing water which has been cooled to some five or six degrees below 0° C. by the addition of sodium nitrate or some other salt which produces a low tempera- ture by its solution. The first eflTect is a lowering of the tempera- ture of the liquid in the inner tube below its true freezing-point. Then follows a rise, and