TUNNY 175 Tunny. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Thynnus or Tunny). Tupelo. — A material (nyssa aquatilis) used for making tents. See Gynecology, Diag- nosis IN {Cervical Dilators, Tents). Tura,Cin.—A crimson colouring matter. See Pigments of the Body and Excreta (Colouring Matters of the Lower Animals). Turacoporphyrin. See Turacin. Turbina.1.—A bone of spongy texture and consistence (Lat. turbo, a top), e.g. the sphenoidal turbinals or bones of Bertin. Turbinated Bones. — The scroll- shaped bones of the skull known as conchw inferiores (inferior turbinated), also the turbin- ated processes of the ethmoid bone (concha superior, concha media); they are covered by a peculiar soft erectile and vascular mucous membrane; excision of a turbinated bone (turhinectomy) or incision of it (turbinotomy) is occasionally performed. See Nose, Examina- tion OF (Anterior Rhinoscopic View); Nose, Diseases of Nasal Orifices and Septum (Hypertrophy of Turbinals). Tiirck'S Bundle.—A bundle or tract of nerve fibres which passes from the cortex of the brain (temporo-sphenoidal lobe) to the internal geniculate body, passing through the pons. Tiirck'S Column.—The anterior or direct pyramidal tract. Tiirck'S Trachoma. — Laryngitis sicca. See Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflam- mations (Laryngitis Sicca). Turkey. See Balneology (Turkey). Turkish Bath. See Balneology (His- torical) ; Hydropathy. Turmeric.—The rhizome of Curcuma longa; it is a condiment, and it used to be official in the B.P. ; unsized paper which has been steeped in tincture of turmeric may be used as a test for alkalies (being turned brown by them). "Turn of Life." ^S'ee Menopause. Turpentine. See also Aseptic Treat- ment of Wounds (Disinfection); Dermatitis Traumatica bt Venenata ; Drug Eruptions (Erythematous); Lardaceous Degeneration (Etiology); ISTephritis (Etiology); Urine, Pathological Changes in (Odour).—Oil of turpentine (Oleum Terebinthinfe). Obtained by distillation from the oleo-resin (common turpentine) of Finns sylvestris and other species of Pinus. It is a colourless fluid with a strong peculiar smell. It contains various hydro- carbons (terpenes) all having the formula CjflHjg. It is very inflammable, and takes fire if mixed with any strong mineral acid. It dissolves resins, sulphvir, and phosphorus. It is insoluble in water, but soluble in alcohol, ether, and chloroform. Dose—2-10 m.; 3-4 3 as an anthelmintic. Preparations—1. Lini- mentum Terebinthinse. 2. Linimentum Tere- binthinfe Aceticum. Externally turpentine is used as a counter- irritant in bronchitis, pleurisy, arthritis, etc. It is usually applied to the chest in the form of a stupe or hot cloth which should be removed as soon as it causes discomfort. The liniments are useful for rubbing over joints, and in lumbago, sciatica, myalgia, etc. Turpentine has been employed as a parasticide in ringworm. Sanitas contains turpentine which has been allowed to oxidise in the air, its active principle being peroxide of hydrogen. Oil of turpentine is used internally in certain abdominal condi- tions for the purpose of overcoming tympanites. It may be given as an enema (1 oz. to 15 oz. of mucilage of starch), and by the mouth (30-60 m. in mucilage). As an anthelmintic it is given in starch in large doses followed by castor oil. It may arrest intestinal htemor- rhage, as in typhoid fever, and bleeding from the stomach, as in gastric ulcer. In persistent diarrhoea during convalescence from typhoid fever it is of great benefit. It is not much used as an inhalation in respiratory diseases. In giving turpentine internally its liability to cause inflammation of the kidneys must always be borne in mind, and it should never be administered to patients suffering from nephritis. Plugs of gauze or lint soaked in turpentine may be employed for styptic purposes in bleed- ing from deep wounds or cavities. It is less irritating than perchloride of iron and has the advantage of being readily obtainable in emergencies. Turpeth or Turpethum. — The dried root and stem of Ipomoea turpethum, used as a powder, in doses of 5 to 20 grains, for the same purposes as jalap; there is a tinctura jalapoe. composita which contains one part of turpeth to eight of jalap and two of scammony ; it is official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the B.P. of 1898. The glucoside which is its active constituent is called turpethin (Cj^HggOjj). Tussiculation.—A frequent, dry, and hacking coiigh (Lat. tussis, cough). TuSSiS Convulsiva. See Whooping Cough. 'Tween-Brain. — The diencephalon or inter-brain, consisting chiefly of the optic thalami. See Embryology (Fourth Week, Brain). Twelfth Nerve. See Hypoglossal Nerve.