WARTS OR VERRUCA 512 They may be present in great numbers, or only sparsely distributed. Radcliffe-Crocker has seen a copious crop on the chest, associated with acute eczema, in an elderly woman. In a case of my own, a number of them, the size of lentils, developed about the extensor surfaces of the wrists and lower part of the forearms, in an elderly lady in the course of influenzal patchy pneumonia. The warts could be partially scraped away with the nail. They came out two or three at a time; some had involuted, leaving light sepia pigmentation. She also had two small warts about the right thumb which followed a burn. When I saw the patient there was also post-influenzal desquama- tion about the hands and feet. Epithelioma may occur as a complication (see Fernet on "Tumours of the Skin," vol. x. p. 168). Treatment.—The affection is a trifling one. Soap and water and cleanliness generally are the only things needful. If their removal should be demanded, thorough curetting would be best. Any senile wart showing signs of ulceration and growth should be excised. Venereal warts are observed about the genito-anal regions and adjacent parts of thighs in women, and in the neighbourhood of the corona glandis in men. They commence as minute lesions, which increase in size and become tufted and pedunculated. They may become very large and cauliflower-like, with inflammation and a foetid discharge, causing great inconvenience and pain. These growths are associated with irritating discharges such as occur in gonorrhoea, pregnancy, chancres, etc. Although experimental inoculation has failed, there is no doubt as to their being contracted as a result of impure intercourse. Diday was of opinion that individuals suff"ering from them had, or had had, warts about the hands. In a case of warts about the glans penis, recently under my care, there was a history of their commencing ten days after coitus. The warts were millet-sized and flat, with here and there small tufted ones. On the hands I found two hemp-seed-sized flat warts, which the patient had not noticed. Treatment. — Cleanliness first, and keeping them dry with boric acid powder may suffice. Dusting with talc containing a little salicylic acid, or with the following: — Pulv. frondum sabinge, pulv. aluminis, aa 10, pulv. cupri sulph. 1 (Finger of Vienna); or they may be removed when large by means of the galvano-cautery. Finger warns against ligaturing them. In pregnant women they may disappear spontane- ously after confinement. Nothing should be done during pregnancy, except in the way of cleanliness. Small warts of the penis can be lightly touched with pure carbolic acid, nitric acid, or acid nitrate of mercury, applied with a wooden match end. Warty Streaks.—This condition comes into the category of ichthyosis (hystrix) linearis. Verruga peruana {verruga, a wart) is a serious acute infective disease of Peru, with multiple lesions (also called Carrion's disease). In some recorded cases only a few verrugas have occurred, and that some time after leaving infected districts of the Andes (see p. 441). Warty Lupus. See Skin, Tubercu- losis OF {Lupus Verrucosus). Wash.—A lotion, e.g. black, red, white, or yellow wash. See Lead {Liquor Plumbi Sub- acetatis Dilutus); Mercury. Washerwoman's Itch.—Eczema of the hands in washerwomen. See Eczema. Washing' Out.—The washing out of a hollow viscus, more especially of the stomach and bladder. See Bladder, Injuries and Dis- eases OF {Chronic Cystitis, Treatment); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases {Dilatation,, Treat- ment). Wasp. See Myiasis {Insect Stings); Sting- ing Insects. Wasserman, Reaction of. See Syphilis, Recent Advances in the Knowledge OF {Serum Diagnosis, Wasserman's Reaction). Wasting. See Atrophy; Children, Clinical Examination of {Head, Limbs, etc.); Hydrocephalus {Symptoms); Syphilis {Chil- dren, Early Signs). Watch-Test. See Ear, Examination of {Watch Test of Hearing). Water. Quantity of Water required for various purposes ..... . 513 Intermittent versus Constant Supply . 513 Dual Supplies . . . . .513 What constitutes a Hygienically Pure Water 514 Various Sources from which Water is de- rived: Rain Water, Surface Water, Spring and Subsoil Water, Deep-well Water, River Water, and Causes of Pollution 514 Diseases produced by Impure Water: Diar- rhoea, Typhoid Fever, Cholera, Goitre, Plumbism, Entozoal Diseases . . 516 Protection of Water Supplies from various sources ...... 518 Purification of Water on the large scale. Domestic Purification . . .519 Hard Water versus Soft Water. Methods of Softening . . . . .519 Chemical and Bacteriological Examination of Water. Methods of Analyses . 520 IntPrpretation of Analyses . . . 522 Collection of Samples for Examination . 523 The Law relating to Water Supplies . 523