TUBERCULOSIS 144 Even at the outset, however, we may dechne to accept statistics, wheresoever originating, as applicable to every country; and we are warranted, even granting that Koch were right so far as his own experience, or experience in Germany, is concerned, in refusing to allow his conclusions to dominate or alter our measures adopted after long discussion for the prevention of tuberculosis in Britain unless or until statistics from British sources applicable to our own circumstances and case show these measures to be mistaken. Even statistics gathered from different parts of Germany do not agree, and in different parts of Britain the incidence of tuberculosis varies. In London and Edinburgh the disease is common. In other large cities, e.g. Birmingham, it is not so rife. Previous to the 1901 Congress the relation- ship, if not identity, of the bacilli was accepted as a settled fact, though it was recognised that the bacilli from a bovine source were more virulent than those from a human soui-ce. We had also recognised the fact that re- spiratory infection was much more important than alimentary infection, even in children; but we were not prepared to accept, off-hand, Koch's dictum that the possibility of infection from infected alimenta is a negligible quantity. As Montizambert remarks in his report to the Canadian Minister of Agriculture: " We shall all rejoice if Koch is proved to be right, and our duty is to hope that he is. But the question is, can his theory be safely accepted 1 That can only be decided by an examination of the facts upon which it is based. No man, however great, can lay down a law in science by the mere weight of his opinion." [Bovine and Human Tuberculosis. Report of Royal Commission. — One of the results of Koch's pronouncement in 1901, that bovine tuberculosis was seldom a cause of the disease in man, was the appointment of a Royal Com- mission to inquire whether the disease in animals and man is one and the same, whether animals and man can be reciprocally infected by it, and, if transmission from animals to man takes place, what circumstances favour such transmission. The second interim report, issued in 1907, deals mainly with the results of an investigation of the effects of experimental infection with bacilli of bovine origin and bacilli of human origin. The Commissioners are able to answer the second reference to them in the affirmative, and to assert that animals and man can be reciprocally infected. The other questions remain as yet in abeyance. The main features of the report may be summarised as follows:—Two types of bacillus can be dis- tinguished—the bovine and the human—but the difference between them is in the main one of virulence. The histological and anatomical features of the lesions caused by each are the same, except in degree. The bovine type of bacillus is much more virulent than the human type. The viruses obtained from cases of tuberculosis in man were found to be divisible into two groups, one corresponding to the human type of bacillus, the other to the bovine type. This fact is of peculiar significance when the source of the two groups of viruses is considered. Of 14 cases yielding a virus corresponding in all respects to the bovine type, 10 were primary abdominal tuberculosis, 3 cervical glands, 1 phthisis. Of 40 cases yielding virus of the human type, 8 were primary abdominal tuber- culosis, 10 respiratory tuberculosis, 9 bone and joint disease, 2 genito urinary tuberculosis, and the rest cervical glands. Most of the cases, therefore, yielding a virus resembling that of bovine tuberculosis, were instances of alimentary infection; most of the other group were in- stances of infection arising outside the ali- mentary tract. The possibility of the two types of bacillus being, or becoming under suitable conditions, interchangeable, is still under in- vestigation by the Commission, and no definite statement can yet be made. The conclusions at which the Commissioners arrive are:—1. That a certain amount of tuberculosis, especially in children, is directly due to infection with the bovine bacillus. 2. That tuberculous milk is clearly a cause of tuberculosis, and fatal tuber- culosis, in man. 3. That a very large pro- portion of tuberculosis contracted by ingestion is due to bovine bacilli. 4. That more stringent measures are required to prevent the sale or consumption of milk from tuberculous cows.] That Koch's conclusion is incorrect, at all events so far as Great Britain is concerned, is proved by a considerable body of clinical and statistical evidence ; and even in other countries evidence is obtainable which warrants us in doubting the absolute correctness for all peoples and climes of his sweeping statement. In some countries, as in our own, the chances of infection are greater than in Germany. We must remember that, whereas the use of boiled milk is very common, if not the rule, in Ger- many, it is the exception in Britain. No doubt the use of " Pasteurised," " sterilised," or cooked milk is increasing in this country, but the flavour of boiled milk is not grateful to the national palate, and we still prefer raw milk with all its extraneous contents, derived from the cow, the milker, the byre, and later from the dust of streets and occupied apartments. As has been remarked, there is no article of food in common use which is more exposed to contamination in its progress from the producer to the consumer, an article which is produced sterile, and in nature is intended to be consumed without chance of contamination. This is a point of very considerable import- ance which tends to affect the incidence of the disease. Again, in healthy subjects consumption of i