UTERUS, DISPLACEMENTS OF THE 338 tures. The chief factors producing unrest or tension of these are—(1) passage of large masses of faeces; (2) intra-abdominal pressure forcing down the uterus. The first of these is treated by aperients or by daily enemata. Intra- abdominal pressure is minimised by rest, and is resisted by a Hodge or figure-of-eight pessary, which by its upward pressure supports the uterus, and thus removes the tension from the utero-sacral ligaments, and relieves the dragging pain in the back which is the leading symptom of this condition. One may also attempt to restore the ligaments to their normal condition by first promoting absorption of the thickening. This may be accomplished by glycerine plugs, hot douches, warm sitz baths, or special treat- ment at watering-places such as Kissingen, Marienbad, where the methodical application of heat is practised in the form of sulphur, peat, or sand baths. Secondly, by endeavouring to lengthen the ligaments by massage under anges- thesia, or, as has been recently advocated by Reed of Chicago, one may cut through the posterior vaginal wall and resect the ligaments, thus allowing the cervix to come forward and assume a more normal position. The dysmenor- rhoea may be premenstrual and menstrual. In the former case it may be attributed to the congestion which takes place in the pelvis before the flow appears, and which would affect the inflamed ligaments. The pain which is present during the period is due to the metritis, endo- metritis, and the acute bend between the body and cervix. Dilating the uterus and curetting the endometrium will be found most beneficial. Should any erosions be present on the vaginal portion, or if the cervix is lacerated or hyper- trophied, these conditions should receive appro- priate treatment. 8. Congenital Anteflexion. — Under this term is usually described a uterus having the characters of that of the child. In early life the body of the uterus is small, and acutely ante- flexed on a comparatively large cervix. At puberty the body should enlarge and become more erect, but when it fails to do so the organ retains its childish shape. This anomalous form of uterus being due, therefore, to an arrest in the development of the organ, cannot be properly considered a displacement, though it is generally classed amongst them. Physical Signs.—In a typical case they are as follows :—The vagina is short, the cervix, which lies in the long axis of the vagina, is long, slender, and pointed. The increased length of the intermediate portion is usually very marked. The external os uteri is small and round (pinhole os), the body of the uterus is also small and round, and is acutely ante- flexed on the cervix. The flexibility is increased in some cases, and in some cases the corpus uteri is not deficient in size. Associated with this condition there is occa- sionally thickening and shortening of the utero- sacral ligaments. Symptoms.—The chief are dysmenorrhoea and sterility. The onset of pain usually occurs a day or two before the period, and continues severe during the first day or until the flow is established. The amount of menstrual dis- charge is scanty, usually pale in colour, fre- quently clotted, and sometimes contains pieces of membrane. Occasionally the menstrual flow is copious. Sometimes there is frequency of micturition. Specially is this the case during the periods. In severe cases the premenstrual pain may last a week, and in some there may be more or less continuous intermenstrual pain. Frequently there is dyspareunia. Treatment.— In the unmarried, dysmenorrhcea is the most urgent symptom. In the married, sterility is often quite as important. Both symptoms may be said to be due in the majority of cases to the shape of the uterus. The ob- stacle to the easy outflow of menstrual fluid is the narrowness of both the external and the internal os uteri, and explains in the most rational manner the production of the dysmenor- rhoea. It is also not unreasonable to consider the sterility due to the same obstruction. The relief which the patient obtains from pain, as well as the frequency with which sterility is cured by free division of the cervix and dilata- tion of the internal os, justify the above view. The pain is sometimes in part due to the accom- panying endometritis and utero-sacral cellu- litis, and in instances where this symptom is in force throughout the intermenstrual period the operator may infer that the uterine adnexa, particularly the tubes, are at fault. In a few cases of this class, in which the symptoms were severe, we found on abdominal section that the tubes were imperfectly developed with blind extremities. In extreme cases abdominal sec- tion is justifiable for the purpose of removal of the tubes and ovaries to induce the menopause, but even in such cases one would first try the effect of division of the cervix and dilatation of the internal os. The best operation for accom- plishing the latter object is that of Dudley of Chicago, in which not only is the external os per- manently enlarged and the internal os dilated, but the flexure is overcome by altering the direction of the cervix from downwards to downwards and backwards. The operation also removes any endometritis that may be present. The patient is put in the lithotomy position, the speculum is introduced, the cervix is di- vided with scissors backward in the middle line past the utei'o-vaginal attachment. The uterus is then dilated and curetted. For the rest of the operation we quote Dudley's own words : " The cut surfaces thus incised are then held widely apart by means of two tenacula in the hands of an assistant; the incision is somewhat