TUMOURS, INOPERABLE, TREATMENT OF 168 seven years ago as a beneficial measure in in- operable mammary cancer, and the experience gained since then has been confirmatory of that view. It has not been universally successful by any means, and time has shown that many of its effects are transient, but judged by the principles underlying all operative work in cancer, viz. the prolongation of the patient's life and the alleviation of the local trouble, it has not been found wanting, for cases of inoperable mammary cancer are forthcoming in which the beneficial effects of relief from pain and dis- comfort, of wasting and disappearance of masses of cancer and enlarged glands, and of marked improvement in the general health, as shown by gain in weight and improvement in strength and spirits, have continued for some years. Ap- plicable only to inoperative mammary cancer with its local and glandular recurrences, it would seem that oophorectomy cannot be relied on in every case, and that it should not be resorted to in cases where there are evident visceral deposits. When performed, experience is in favour of combining it with the administration of thyroid extract. Photo-Therapy.^—k.s, curative agents the Finsen's light and the X-rays have been of late resorted to in cases of sarcoma and carcinoma. There is sufficient evidence already forthcoming to show that in both of them we have a success- ful method of treatment for rodent ulcer and for surface carcinomatous disease. Under them healing takes place, pain lessens, and discharge diminishes. Their action seems selective of cancerous tissue, and to be irritating to and de- structive of it. We are not yet in a position to say whether these apparent curative effects are permanent. From what I have seen I am satisfied that the X-rays, especially in these cases, may be dangerous, and that they require careful watching. Space will not allow of the details of application being given here, but each " sitting" lasts usually about ten to fifteen minutes, and is given on alternate days. No cases of sarcoma being benefited by photo- therapy have yet been published. Electricity.—This has been used in different forms from time to time. We have had the " electric puncture " of Reading of Philadelphia, and the " kataphoresis" of Massey, where the positive pole is coated with mercury, forming an oxychloride of mercury, an infinitesimal part of which acts lethally on the cancer cells and leaves the normal cells undisturbed. More recently we have had high-frequency currents introduced, and in the hands of some of the operators very striking results are said to have been obtained. I have not had any personal experience in their use, and I know of no published cases that prove satisfactorily the value of electricity thus employed in inoperable tumours. ^ This subject is further discussed under X-rays. In conclusion, I would say that as matters stand at present we have no remedial measures in inoperable tumours that can be spoken of as curative. Many of them are decidQ^jpalliative, and as such are entitled to proper recognition. Coley's fluid, oophorectomy, thyroid extract, Finsen light. X-rays, have all their appropriate sphere of action, in suitable cases prolonging life and ameliorating the patient's condition. A great deal has, however, yet to be learnt about them, and it behoves everyone working at this subject to do so in a scientific spirit, making absolutely sure of the exact nature of the cases dealt with, so that the results ob- tained may have a real value. Above all, let not valuable time be spent in operable cases in having resort to any of the above measures in preference to that of early, free, and wide removal by the surgeon's knife that all experience points to as being the only safe and reliable method of treatment in cases of malignant disease. Tumours of the Skin. Carcinoma ..... . 168 Varieties .... . 169 Treatment .... . 169 Endothelioma Cutis . 169 Sarcomata ..... . 169 In Lbuk/Emia ..... . 170 Mycosis Fungoides . 170 Chloroma ..... . 171 Rhinoscleroma .... . 171 Cysticbrcus Cellulose . . 171 Molluscum Contagiosum . 171 Adenoma Sebaceum . 172 Epithelioma Adenoides Cysticum . . 172 Keloid ...... . 172 NiEVI ...... . 173 Lymphangiectodes .... . 173 Myoma Multiplex Cutis . . 173 Xanthoma Palpebrarum . 174 ,, Multiplex . 174 Botryomycosis .... . 174 See also TuMOURS ; Warts, etc. Growths in this situation may be dealt with broadly under the headings of malignant and benign. Taking the former class first, they may be divided up as follows:— Carcinoma.—Apart from the lips and anus, cancer of which parts has been dealt with else- where (" Mouth," vol. vi.; " Rectum," vol. viii.), it is very rare for true epithelioma to develop without some precedent morbid condition, usu- ally of long standing, or as a complication of congenital benign formations, such as njjevi, moles, and so forth. Crater iform Ulcer.—Under this name Hutchin- son has described a clinical variety of epitheli- oma cutis which he has seen arise in a primary manner; but it has also been observed as de- veloping on a previously existing rodent ulcer. Like the latter it affects much the same regions