VAGINA, DISORDERS OF THE 402 Anothei- important function of the vagina is to protect the internal generative organs against the entry of germs ; a function the performance of which is rendered difficult because the means that prevent the entry of living germs must not interfere with the life of spermatozoa. In secretion taken from the vagina cocci and bacilli of many different varieties are found, and among them chain and cluster cocci, which are believed by one set of observers to be pyogenic organisms in a state of diminished virulence, and by another to be simple saprophytes. All these are derived from the vulva, and it is certain that along with other varieties septic and pathogenic germs must from time to time enter. It has been shown, however, by experi- ment that the vagina can actually free itself of a living culture of certain organisms in the course of from a few hours to two or three days. The healthy vagina thus appears to have some means of ridding itself of living disease germs that may gain an entrance, but as regards the nature of this bactericidal influence little is known. The acid reaction, the antagonism of different varieties of germs, phagocytosis, mechanical removal, and the absence of oxygen, have all been considered, but none of them offers a satisfactory explanation of what appears to be a certain fact, namely, that the vaginal secretion is a strong antiseptic and disinfectant. In pregnancy the bactericidal power of the secretion appears to be even more marked than in the non-pregnant condition. While thus the healthy and intact mucous membrane is able to deal successfully with the injurious germs which find an entrance, under certain circumstances, as after injuries, labour or abortion, septic or pathogenic organisms are able to establish themselves in the vagina. As a result, diseased conditions may be set up, either in the pelvic organs and tissues or in the more remote parts of the body. Locally, the germs luxuriate in the natural lumen of the genital canal, causing local inflammations and general septic intoxication; or they may invade the tissues themselves and spread along the tissue spaces, the lymphatics, or the blood- vessels, in which case local inflammations also result, along with true septicaemia or pytemia. The micro-organisms that are of most frequent importance in these connections are, in addition to many varieties of putrefactive germs, the pyogenic organisms, including the bacterium coli commune, and the gonococcus. This fact that disease germs are able to enter through the vagina and to set up serious disease affecting the whole body or remote parts of it, as in septicaemia, pyaemia, and allied conditions, may prove to be of even greater importance than has hitherto appeared. One of the main advances recently made in general pathology has consisted in the discovery of the large part that infection by micro- organisms plays in the production of disease. Thus peritonitis is now understood always to be produced by the action of germs, and the so-called idiopathic form of the disease has almost disappeared even from the text-books. Endocarditis is due to infection with germs of divers kinds, among which the gonococcus is of the greatest interest in the present connec- tion. In the joints again, as Howard Marsh {Brit. Med. Journ. vol. ii. 1902, p. 1831) remarks, inflammation, while never idiopathic, is frequently infective. Acute rheumatism is also most probably due to invasion of the body by germs, and it is possible that the great class of chronic rheumatic and rheumatoid affec- tions may also prove to be due to bacterial infec- tion, as is suggested by Dr. Chalmers Watson (vol. viii. p. 577). Various affections of the internal organs have thus been proved, or are likely to be proved, to be caused by germs, and many of them, such as arthritis and peri- carditis, may be due to the action of any one of a large number of different germs. Arthritis, for instance, may be set up not only by the ordinary septic and pyogenic organisms, by the gonococcus or the tubercle bacillus, but is also not rarely due to the pneumococcus and to the germs of typhoid fever, influenza, scarlet fever, dysentery, or erysipelas. Where the dependence of a disease on a particular germ has been proved, it is not always obvious by what road the germ gained an entrance to the body; such entrance must take place through one of the natural mucous-lined orifices of the body or through a breach of the surface. That the vagina is frequently the portal by which admission is gained is abundantly clear in certain diseases, such as septicaemia, pyaemia, gonorrhoea becoming generalised, and in some cases of tubercular infection. It may well be proved in the future that the vagina serves also as a frequent port of entry for germs that give rise to certain other affections, such as rheuma- tism and pernicious anaemia, whose etiology is at present obscure. Thus leucorrhoea in many of its forms may acquire a greater significance, and may call for more serious consideration than is frequently given to it now. Inflammatory Affections Vaginitis. — Inflammation may affect any part of the vaginal wall from the hymen to the cervical attachment, and may be more or less limited to the mucous membrane, the muscular wall, or the connective tissue sheath. Nothing is known with respect to inflammation of the muscular coat apart from that of the other layers of the wall. Inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding the vagina is known as peri-, or better para-vaginitis, and will be referred to later on. Inflammation of the mucous membrane lining the vagina is by far the most frequent form, and to it the use