VULVA, DISEASES OF THE 506 and on pressing along the urethra from within outwards a drop of pus can usually be forced out. The orifices of the Bartholinian ducts are often red and unduly patent. Microscopically the gonococcus can be detected in the secretion, usually in the interior of cast-ofF epithelial cells. The presence of the gonococcus is the only certain indication that the disease is gonor- rhoeal; but infection of the urethra and Bar- tholinian ducts is in itself strong presumptive evidence. Treatment.—The vulvar affection is, of course, the least important part of an attack of gonor- rhoea, and the main purpose of treatment is to reach the cervix and vagina. The best plan is a thorough antiseptic washing of the vagina and cervix with biniodide of mercury (1 in 1000), after which douches of a weaker solution of the same lotion (1 in 3000) should be given twice or three times daily. The exhibition of mer- cury internally often exerts a very favourable effect on the course of the disease. The urethral condition is best treated by diuretics and copious drinking of milk and barley water ; if it remains obstinate a dressed probe soaked in a 2 per cent solution of nitrate of silver may be passed into the urethra. Diet should be light, and stimu- lants forbidden. Erysipelas of the vulva usually follows labour, and occasionally injuries of the vulva. It presents the same features as when it affects other parts of the body ; but owing to the laxity of the connective tissue of the labia there is always much swelling. The inflammation spreads to adjacent parts, such as the thighs, abdomen, and buttocks. The brunt of the affection com- monly falls on the labia minora ; for, owing to inadequacy of blood-supply, as the result of compression, they may ulcerate or become gangrenous. Treatment must be carried out on general surgical principles. Diphtheritic vulvitis is characterised by the formation of a membrane, which is composed of fibrin, and stains typically with Weigert's stain : the Klebs-Loeflfler bacillus is found in it. It is important to remember that a mem- branous vulvitis may be non-diphtheritic; in that case the membrane, in contradistinction to the features above indicated, is composed of necrotic material, in which outlines of cells may still be made out, and containing little or no fibrin. The organism present is usually the streptococcus. Dermato-neuritis is considered under cutane- ous affections. III. Vascular Disturbances of the Vulva. —Under this heading we have to consider varicocele, hseraatoma, oedema, and gangrene. Varicocele or varix of the vulva is a condition in which the numerous veins of the labia majora assume a dilated and tortuous character. Very often one side only is affected, and the swelling which results may attain the dimen- sions of a fist. It is not uncommon to find a moderate degree of varicocele during the later months of pregnancy; but any other source of pressure on the veins in the pelvis may produce it. As a rule the vaginal veins share in the dilatation, and varicose veins may be present also in the thighs and legs. When due to pregnancy, the condition commonly subsides after delivery; but it may persist, and in that case, if treatment by rest in the horizontal position fails to restore the normal condition, it may be necessary to excise the varicocele. The operation is usually attended by free bleeding, but when done with care it gives good results. Hcematoma of the vulva is an accident that is apt to occur during labour in a case which has presented a varicocele during pregnancy. It is due to bruising and subcutaneous rupture of one or more veins. The feature of the con- dition is a rapid swelling, beginning in the labium majus of one side, and enlarging till it may attain the size of a foetal head. As a rule the haemorrhage ceases spontaneously by its own pressure ; and absorption may then be looked for. It is promoted by rest and gentle elastic pressure applied by means of a thick pad of absorbent wool, kept in place by a spica bandage. If the hsemorrhage threatens to become alarming, as indicated by rapid or continuous increase in size, a free incision should be made, the clots rapidly turned out, and the bleeding points secured. (Edema of the v%dva is due to obstruction of lymphatic vessels. It may occur during preg- nancy ; and we have seen it follow severe vulvitis, and, in one case, an operation for ruptured perineum. The labia minora and prepuce clitoridis are specially apt to be affected; in other cases the oedema spreads over the labia majora and mons veneris. In extreme cases the swelling may form a mass the size of a foetal head. Treatment consists of rest in bed, fomenta- tions, and special attention to the evacuations. If the cause is a pelvic tumour obstructing circulation, the tumour must be removed. Pregnancy may require to be prematurely terminated. In some cases the subsidence of the swelling may be hastened by small punc- tures with a narrow-bladed scalpel. Gajigrene of the vulva is the result of inter- ference with the blood-supply. As we have said, it is particularly apt to occur in cases of erysipelas; we have seen the labia minora slough off in such a case. It may also result from phagedsenic ulceration, when the clitoris chiefly suffers; from injuries during parturi- tion ; and as a complication of some exanthe- mata, such as smallpox, scarlet fever, measles, and typhus. Treatment.—The parts must be kept clean; boracic fomentations should be applied; pain