WRIST-JOINT INJURIES 552 but after some days there were swelling and tenderness which, from their persistence, led Dr. B. to diagnosticate a stellate crack of the bone as a probable result of the fall, and of which he had met with a similar case two years previously. Dr. B. remarked that the bones of the wrist would act as a wedge upon the con- cave articular surface of the radius, and that this case would explain the persistence of some cases of sprained wrist." Case published in the Medical Journal (vol. Iviii. p. 99), with a figure, and copied with the figure in Dr. F. H. Hamilton's work on Fractures, 1848. The details of the injury given here are very meagre, and leave us in doubt as to whether the patient fell on the palm of the hand or not. From the description and figure it appears that there was not any transverse fracture of the lower end as in Colles' fracture, and that the fissures were not, therefore, such as occur in the articular surface in nearly one-half of the cases of Colles' fracture. FIQ. 0. 10 10 A series of radii which belong, one to the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, and five to the museum of the School of Physic, present fissures that occurred during the lives of their owners. The earlier specimens that I obtained showed fissures of the articular sur- face only, and occupied my attention because of the difficulty in explaining their origin. This specimen (Fig. 9), placed in the museum of the college by the late Dr. Richardson, was the first which I saw that helped me to a solution of the question ; it was damaged by the hand and forearm being caught in machinery, prob- ably a cog-wheel ; such is the note on the label. I at once tried if I could produce such frac- tures on the dead bone. If one wraps a towel round the end of the dry bone, and presses with the heel on the carpal end of the radius as it lies on the ground, the bone yields and crepitus is felt; with the lighter degrees of pressure it is possible to break the bone only in the concave surface of the articulation, and to produce lines identical with those of these macerated speci- mens, strictly limited to the articular surface (Fig. 10, A, B, C). A greater degree of force extends the fissures upwards in the compact wall of the bone. If a man be trampled in a crowd, or if a weight of any kind falls on the wrist, such a damage can readily happen, still more if a wrist, as we often see, be rolled in machinery. It seems more rational to look for the cause of these fissures in such injuries than to attribute them to the wedge action of the carpal bones. The experiment I have described is best made on bones in which maceration has removed the articular cartilage; in these the fissures of least degree will be seen in the articular layer of bone, but would be concealed in the bone covered by cartilage. This is illustrated by one of my specimens, where the cracks ai'e evident in the shaft on both palmar and dorsal sides of the bone, and are traceable into the cartilage at each margin of the joint, but have not torn it. Fracture of the Radial Styloid. — Of the fracture of the radial styloid I can only say that this specimen (Fig. 11) is a perfect example, remarkable for the downward displacement of the fragment, which has caiised elongation of the outer border of the bone, probably as we see the inner malleolus displaced by traction of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint. I have never recognised the injury in the living, and this united fracture is the only example I have seen. Fracture of the ulnar styloid occurs in a con- siderable number of cases of ordinary Colles' fracture in consequence of the strain communicated to it by the internal lateral liga- ment of the wrist. It is not unusual to find the fracture in the X-ray photographs of the injury. The interest of the injury is derived from the fact that pain in position of the fractured process is so con- stant an attendant on the ordinary fracture. Fractures of the Carpal Bones.— Simple fractures of the carpal bones are of very rare occur- rence, but as the use of the Rontgen rays becomes more general their great rarity will probably disappear. The scaphoid is the bone most often broken. Next to this is the semi- lunar, but were it of any practical advantage a complete list might be made out. Direct blows may produce any of these fractures. The cause, as far as I know, which breaks the scaphoid is over-extension of the wrist, as in the following FIO. 11.