307 URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN In cases of picric-acid poisoning the urine has a red colour from a partial conversion of the picric into picramic acid. Picric acid may be extracted from such urine by shaking with ether, to which it imparts a yellow tint. Urine containing copaiba not only has a highly characteristic odour, but it yields with cold nitric acid an opaque white ring which may be mistaken for albumin, and with hydrochloric acid a purplish colour which shows a character- istic spectrum of three absorption bands. Rosaniline gives a pink colour to the urine of patients who are taking it, and methylene-blue imparts a brilliant green tint, or a blue colour if large doses have been taken. The pink pigment with a bright green fluor- escence which results from the eating of cer- tain kinds of sweetmeats may also be again referred to. Bromides and iodides may be recognised by the addition of chlorine water, which sets free their halogen components. On shaking with chloroform the latter is coloured brown by bromine and purple by iodine. It should be remembered that urine containing iodide yields a blue colour with guaiacum and ozonic ether, but rather more slowly than blood-stained urine. Haematoporphyrinuria may result from the administration of sulphonal and its allies. Some poisons produce conspicuous changes in the urine which are due to injury done in their passage. Thus cantharides or turpentine may produce htematuria by irritating the kidneys, and potassium chlorate in poisonous doses may set free htemoglobin in the blood, and so cause a copious excretion of methsemoglobin. Many other drugs and tonic substances may be recognised in urine, but the processes for their detection do not fall within the scope of this article. Urine, Bacteria in. Modes op Infection .... 307 Cystitis ...... 309 Nephritis ...... 310 Infective Diseases . . . .310 Typhoid Fever 310 Tuberculosis 311 Gonorrhcea ...... 312 Actinomycosis . . . . .312 Pneumaturia . . . . . .212 Hydrothionuria 312 The urine as contained in the healthy bladder is normally free from bacteria. The exact significance to be attached to the presence of bacteria in the urine depends in no small degree on the recognition of the channel through which the infection has taken place. Modes of Infection. — A. Infection from without.—Urine passed in the everyday manner, received in a sterile vessel and preserved from contact with the air, does not always remain sterile, for the normal urethra, male or female, nearly always contains bacteria. Lustgarten and Mannaberg who were the first to investigate the flora of the healthy urethra, found in stained films, or in cultures, the smegma bacillus, the pseudo-gonococcus, and the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, besides other organisms of less impoi'tance. Rovsing was able to recover nearly all the organisms which he had already described as occvirring in cystitis. Melchior found the streptococcus pyogenes and the bacillus coli communis, as well as other organisms. Petit and Wassermann, on the other hand, found neither pathogenic organisms nor the ordinary organisms of cystitis. Schenk and Austerlitz investigated the bac- teriology of the urethra in healthy women. After cleansing not only the meatus, hiht also the anterior part of the urethra, they found the urethra sterile in 30 out of 60 cases. In only 2 cases out of the others were pathogenic organisms found. In the remaining 28 cases they identified the organisms present with those commonly found in the vestibule, and con- cluded that they had migrated thence into the urethra. It is obvious that an infection in this way is more likely to occur in women than in men. Melchior found the bacilli coli communis in the vagina or on the vulva of women in half the cases which he examined, and not infre- quently in the preputial secretion of men. It is seen, therefore, that in a large proportion of cases the healthy urethra and external genital organs abound in organisms which may be carried to the bladder, and give rise to an infection of the urine or of the bladder wall if the conditions are favourable, even when the greatest care is taken in the sterilisation of instruments. The passage of instruments is by far the commonest cause of infection, although, fortunately, the other conditions do not favour the growth of bacteria in the urine, except in a very small proportion of cases. Where there exists any microbic infection of the urethra the risk of infection attending catheterisation is, of course, greatly increased. In women it is probably owing to the short- ness of the urethra, combined with the liability of the parts to injury during parturition, and the more frequent occurrence of disease in the neighbouring parts, that bacteria may make their way into the bladder by the urethra with- out the aid of a catheter. In men they are not likely to do so except by the direct extension backwards of an infective process in the urethra. B. By direct extension of disease from neigh- bouring organs. Abscesses arising in various parts may burst into the bladder, or fistulous communications