EDITORIAL NOTE This, the tenth, volume of Green's Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine and Surgery, carries the subject headings from Thiersch's Method to Zymotic, and brings the whole work to a conclusion. Within these ten volumes will be found almost all the articles which appeared originally in the thirteen volumes of the Encyclopcedia Medica, along with a large number of new articles, long and short, dealing with subjects such as Physiology, Materia Medica, Pharmacology, Prescribing, the Training of Midwives, and the Medical Examina- tion OF School Children, which in the former work were not treated in detail. The promises made in the Introduction to Volume I. have all been fulfilled : a Medical Dictionary, con- taining thousands of definitions, has been incorporated with the Encyclopaedia Medica; an elaborate system of Cross References has been carried through; important advances in medical and surgical practice have been taken notice of, sometimes in the form of new articles, sometimes as additions, marked by square brackets, to existing articles, and sometimes by short paragraphs or definitions cross-referenced to the original contributions ; and additional illustrations have been supplied. In one particular alone the performance falls short of the promise : the appearance of the Supplementary Volume to the Encyclopaedia Medica and to the present work, which it was hoped would take place in the present year (1908), must be postponed to the Spring or Summer of 1909 ; it will still, however, be published within five years after the date (1904) on the title-page of the Index Volume of the Encyclopaedia Medica, and will, therefore, be correctly designated a Quinqtiennium of Medicine and Surgery. The present volume contains 1059 subject-headings; of these, sixty-four are articles of more than 1000 words in length, fifty-four are of medium size (less than 1000 words, but not less than ten lines in length), and 941 are short paragraphs, mostly of the nature of definitions, of less than ten lines. The sixty-four long articles deal as usual with a great variety of subjects. There is, for instance, a group of contributions treating of the morbid conditions of the Uterus, Developmental Errors, Displacements, Inflammations, Tumours, and Insanity associated with Uterine Disease; these contributions cover nearly sixty pages of the Encyclopedia. Another long article (forty-two pages) deals with Pathological Changes in the Urine ; another with Tuberculosis ; another with the Wrist-Joint ; another with Whooping-Cough ; another with Yellow Fever, and so on. Two closely associated subjects fall to be considered near to each other in alphabetical sequence. Toxicology and Dangerous Trades. Other matters dealt