UNCONSCIOUSNESS 222 For the present purpose it would be a work of supererogation to review the polemical and critical discussions on the science of the phen- omena of consciousness, for this would involve the production of a treatise on psychology both descriptive and explanatory. It will be ex- pedient to adopt merely some sort of attitude towards those implications of the known phen- omena of consciousness, without reference to the various metaphysical hypotheses which have been introduced solely in the attempt to explain the facts. In our study of the concept of mind it is important to recognise the definite standpoint that all consciousness, and every phenomenon of consciousness, ought to be considered as a form of functioning, and not as a mere differenti- ation of content. And, just as the task of scientific psychology is truly a description and explanation of phenomena of consciousness, considered as forms of active functioning, so our present task of considering the morbid phenomena or disruptions, so to speak, of con- sciousness must perforce be descriptive and explanatory without falling back upon the speculative or metaphysical doctrines as to the ground and essence of all mental life. Active discriminating consciousness and con- sciousness of passive contents must be differenti- ated and recognised as being in their totality the sum of all the so-called elements comprising consciousness, even though they are only two sides of one and the same consciousness. In- asmuch as consciousness involves the sum total of mental life with its successions and laws of sequence, so " unconsciousness " ought to involve a full consideration of the disruptions of suc- cessions of psychoses which derive their char- acteristics from the nature of their sequence, and of the laws which are shown by the states of consciousness in this sequence. For simplicity the various cognitive states of consciousness will herein be termed " know- ledge," arrived at through the process of development and involving all forms of intel- lectual activity. Unconsciousness, therefore, implies interference with knowledge, and this interference may be partial or complete. The Physical Basis of Consciousness is a subject which has engaged the attention of nearly all writers in physiology, psj^chology, and philosophy. Here we grant that the mind holds intercourse with the external world through the medium of the nervous mechanism, and any disorder or disease of that mechanism may impair or suspend the intercourse. It is only when we have gained an adequate know- ledge of the physiological data, and are able to place them in juxtaposition to concomitant psychological data, that we shall be able to cope with this most difficult of all questions of mental physiology. Hitherto the tendency has been to assign causes where causes cannot be shown to exist, and deduce extempore doctrines from a very partial view of the influence of cerebral disease upon the phenomena of the mind, and these partial deductions have served to form the basis of an irrational materialism. It will ;be readily understood that some hallucinations and mental changes cannot be explained by physiological perversion; similarly in discussing the phen- omena of unconsciousness we must simply assume that disease of the cerebrum impairs or suspends the intercourse of the substantially unknowable mind with the data derived from the external world. The scheme of the hierarchy of nervous centres enunciated by Hughlings Jackson is based on an anatomico-physiological basis, and a reference to this scheme serves to explain upon a rational hypothesis many of the phen- omena of unconsciousness. Briefly stated it is as follows:— " 1. The lowest motor centres are the anterior horns of the spinal cord, and also the homologous nuclei for motor cranial nerves higher up. They extend from the lowest spinal anterior horns up to the nuclei for the ocular muscles. They are at once lowest cerebral and lowest cerebellar centres; hence lesion of them cuts off the parts they represent from the whole central nervous system. " The lowest centres are the most simple and most organised centres; each represents some limited region of the body indirectly, but yet most nearly directly they are representative. The middle motor centres are the convolutions making up Ferrier's motor region and the ganglia of the striatum. These are more com- plex and less organised, and represent wider regions of the body doubly indirectly ; they are i-epresentative. The highest motor centres are convolutions in front of the so-called motor region. I say so-called, as I believe, and have urged for many years, that the whole anterior part of the brain is motor, or chiefly motor.^ The highest motor centres are the most com- plex and least organised centres ; and represent widest regions (movements of all parts of the body), triply indirectly; they are re-re-repre- sentative. That the middle motor centres represent over again what all the lowest motor centres have represented, will be disputed by few. I go further, and say that the highest motor centres (frontal lobes) represent over again, in more complex combinations, what the middle motor centres represent. In recapitu- lation there is increasing complexity, or greater intricacy of representation, so that ultimately the highest motor centres represent, or, in other words, co-ordinate, movements of all parts of the body in the most special and complex combinations." In regard to the scheme of the sensory centres 1 Brit. Med. Journ., March 6, 1869.