212 ULCERS AND ULCERATION taken as the ideal form of ulcer, and used as a type with which to compare the ulcer seen at the bed-side. A Septic Ulcer. — "We may contrast, for example, the characters of an aseptic healing sore with those of one in which septic infection has occurred. As a result of the action of the bacteria the effused blood and serum undergo septic changes, and are converted into pus. The base of the ulcer becomes red and inflamed, and is bathed in thin yellow or grumous pus, with perhaps here and there small sloughs of the superficial layers of tissue. No granulation tissue forms. The discharge is profuse, thin, acrid, and offensive, and consists of pus, broken- down blood-clot, and sloughs. The edges are inflamed, irregular, and ragged, and there is no sign of young epithelium growing in at the margins. On the contrary, the sore may be actually increasing in area by the breaking down of the tissues at the margins. The surrounding parts are also inflamed, hot, red, swollen, and cedematous, and the whole region is painful and tender. The patient's temperature is probably raised, and there are other signs of fever. Between the aseptic healing sore and the septic ulcer here described all transition forms are met with. Classification op Ulcers.—The chief diffi- culty in arriving at a satisfactory and useful classification of ulcers is that of finding a basis of classification. Theoretically the best basis would be that of cause, and if this were adopted a classification which would at least be logical might be framed. It would, however, involve abandoning many of the terms now in current use, and the substitution of new names might lead to confusion. The nomenclature is already sufficiently involved. We speak, for example, of the "traumatic," the "septic," and the " varicose " ulcer in relation to the factor which produces or maintains the condition; of the "syphilitic," the "gouty," and the "diabetic" ulcer, accoi-ding to the underlying constitutional element; and of the "weak," the "inflamed," the "callous," and the "healing" ulcer, accord- ing to the condition in which the sore happens to be when seen by the surgeon. It must be confessed that many of these terms are so con- venient and descriptive, and are so well established in surgical nomenclature, that it is undesirable to attempt to abolish them. It would appear, therefore, that we must remain content with a clinical arrangement of ulcers,— it cannot be called a classification,—considering a given ulcer from two points of view—firstly, its cause, and, secondly, its present condition. Such a method of studying ulcers has the practical advantage that it furnishes us with the main indications for treatment. The cause must be removed, and the conditions so modified as to convert the ulcer into an aseptic healing sore. A. Arrangement of Ulcers according to their Cause.—If we consider ulcers from the point of view of their cause we find that they fall into five main groups :— 1. Ulcers due to traumatism. 2. ,, ,, imperfect circulation. 3. ,, ,, interference with nerve- supply. 4. Ulcers due to constitutional causes. 5. ,, ,, malignant disease. Each of these groups will be found to contain several subdivisions which will be described below. In all varieties the influence of pyogenic bacteria is a most important factor in their causation. 1. Ulcers due to Traumatism.—{a) An ulcer may be produced by a direct crush or bruise by which the skin of the part is completely destroyed, or so far devitalised that it forms a suitable soil for bacteria. This is very common on the leg, for example, where the skin has been grazed by a falling object or by a carriage wheel. In the course of a few days the damaged area becomes of a greyish white colour, large blebs form over it, and the skin dies. When the dead skin is thrown off a raw surface is left covered with feeble granulations, and having small, shreddy sloughs adhering to it. (6) Similarly an ulcer may be the result of a hum or scald (vol. ii. p. 34), or of exposure to the Rontgen rays. (c) The "^Jresmre sore " is another example of an ulcer due to traumatism. It usually occurs over bony prominences such as the malleoli, the condyles of the humerus or femur, the head of the fibula or the base of the fifth metatarsal, as a result of ill-fitting splints or other appliances. While it is most frequently met with in patients who are paralysed, or who suffer from some nervous lesion, such as infantile paralysis or injury of the spinal cord or nerve-trunks, it may also occur in patients with a perfectly healthy nervous system. On removing the splint the skin of the part pressed upon is found to be of a red or pink colour, with a pale grey spot in the centre, which eventually gives way by sloughing, and leaves an ulcer. Bed-sores (vol. i. p. 365) are also to a certain extent the result of undue or prolonged pressure. 2. Ulcers due to Imperfect Circulation.—Any interference with the venous return from a part plays a most important role in producing ulcera- tion. One of the most familiar examples of ulceration due to defective venous circulation is the common "leg ulcer," so frequently met with in the out-patient room in hospital practice. This form of ulcer occurs almost invariably on the front and inner aspects of the lower third of the leg, where, according to Hilton, the anas- tomosis between the superficial and deep veins is less free than elsewhere, with the result that extra stress is thrown upon the surface veins