URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 290 alone it is present, react with copper solutions as readily as glycosuric ones. However, alkap- tonuria is extremely rare, and the conspicuous blackening by the alkali, which occurs at the same time, is very characteristic. The bismuth test of Almen and Nylander is not very often employed in this country. The reagent is prepared by dissolving 4 grammes of sodium potassium tartarate in 100 c.c. of an 8 per cent solution of sodium hydroxide, and, after warming, basic nitrate of bismuth is added as long as it is dissolved. One part of the test solution is added to ten parts of the suspected urine, and the mixture is boiled for a few minutes. If sugar be present the liquid blackens. This test is not applicable to albuminous urines, as in them the black sulphide of bismuth is apt to form, and other reducing substances met with in urine yield a positive reaction, as also does chrysophanic acid derived from rhubarb or senna. On the other hand alkapton urines do not respond to this test. The phenyl-hydrazin test, introduced by von Jaksch, is thus performed:—Two parts (von Jaksch describes as a part as much as can be taken on the point of a knife) of chemically pure phenyl-hydrazin hydrochloride and three parts of sodium acetate, are added to 6-8 c.c. of the urine in a test-tube. The test-tube is warmed, and if solution is not complete some water is added. The test-tube is then allowed to stand in boiling water for half an hour, or better for an hour, and is then placed in a beaker of cold water. On cooling a yellow crystalline precipi- tate of phenyl-glucosazone falls, and this pre- cipitate consists of yellow needles arranged in rosettes, which are larger if the liquor is allowed to cool more slowly. The test is an extremely delicate one, almost too delicate indeed, seeing that crystals of phenyl-glucosazone may even be obtained from normal urines. Other sugars and glycuronic acid yield similar crystalline compounds, which may be distinguished by their crystalline forms, or much better by their melting-points, which may be determined after the crystals have been removed, washed, and dried. The melting-point of pure phenyl-glucosazone is 204°-205° C., but impurities may, of course, cause a considerable lowering of the melting-point. The fermentation which it undergoes with yeast offers one of the surest ways of detecting sugar in urine, and also supplies a simple and fairly accurate means of estimating its amount. This is the principle of Roberts's method, which is so extensively employed in our hospitals. Specimens of the urine are placed in two bottles provided with grooved corks to allow of the escape of gases. Into one of the bottles a small piece of German yeast is introduced, and both are allowed to stand in a warm place for twenty- four hours. After the bottles have cooled the specific gravity of both specimens is taken, and the loss of specific gravity of the fermented as against that of the control specimen affords a measure of the amount of sugar which has been destroyed. A difference of 1° corresponds roughly to one grain of sugar in the ounce of urine. Care must be taken that the bottles do not become overheated, with the result that the activity of the yeast is inhibited. Estimation by measurement of the carbon dioxide formed is less satisfactory, but the collection of the gas forms a ready method of demonstrating the occurrence of fermentation. It must be re- membered, however, that a small quantity of gas is formed by the auto-fermentation of yeast. More accurate results are obtained by the titration of urine with Fehling's solution. The solution in question is made up in two portions, one of which is prepared by dissolving 34"64 grammes of cupric sulphate in 500 c.c. of water, the other by the addition of 173 grammes of sodium potassium tartarate to 100 c.c. of sodium hydroxide solution (sp. gr. 1"34) and dilution to 500 c.c. The two solutions should be mixed in equal parts before use. The fresh admixture is of importance, because when the mixed Fehling solution is kept for some time re- duction is apt to occur on boiling, owing to a partial conversion of tartaric into racemic acid. Such reduction may give rise to serious diag- nostic errors. The urine is placed in a burette and, if rich in sugar, should be diluted with water to a known extent. 10 c.c. of Fehling's solution, diluted with some 40 c.c. of water, are placed in a porcelain dish and are kept boiling during the process of titration. When the urine is run into it gradually from the burette the familiar orange precipitate of cuprous oxide is thrown down and the blue colour of the solution becomes paler. Eventually, when reduction is complete, the liquid above the precipitate is rendered colourless, and the amount discharged from the burette is then read off. A preliminary rough determination of the reducing power should first be made, after which the urine may be further diluted to a known extent if it appear desirable. Owing to the presence of the orange precipitate the exact point at which the blue tint disappears is rather difficult to estimate, and the following means may be resorted to:—-Upon a porcelain tile a number of drops of a solution of potassium ferrocyanide are placed by means of a glass rod, and to each a drop of acetic acid is added by the same means. When reduction approaches completion a drop of the clear liquid above the precipitate is removed by the stirring rod and added to one of the drops upon the tile. If a brown colour results the copper is not com- pletely reduced, and after the further addition of urine from the burette the test may be re- peated until no further brown colour is obtained. Dilution of diabetic urine to five or ten times its volume is usually desirable, and the amount