UTERUS: ASSOCIATED INSANITY 377 2. Mental symptoms liable to occur during the period of full functional activity of the uterus and ovaries. 3. Mental symptoms frequently coincident with the period of the climacteric. 4. Mental symptoms the result of surgical operations (ovariotomy, hysterectomy). 1. Mental Symptoms liable to occur during the Period of Physical Development.—During the period of life in which the reproductive capacity in women is coming to maturity (13-25 years) there is a tendency for women with a predis- position to the neuroses to sui?er from morbid loss of self-control in speech, habits, and conduct. The various symptoms classified as hysteria and moral perversions are legion, and may range from the slightest cases of exaggerated self- consciousness to symptoms so marked and unnatural as almost to constitute insanity. The marked outstanding symptom most char- acteristic of this period is impulsiveness, and may present itself in the motor equivalent of hystero-epileptic seizures. None of these men- tal abnormalities necessarily mean insanity, but they are danger signals indicating a lowered nutritive activity, and may pass into insanity under unfavourable conditions. During attacks of adolescent mania the delusions, actions, speech, and general conduct are often markedly sexual in character, and more especially during the menstrual periods. During such attacks of mania, amenorrhoea is quite common, but this is probably a result, not a cause of the mental disease, as according to Dr. Cardew amenorrhoea is common amongst the senior classes in girls' schools without being accompanied by abnormal mental symptoms. 2. Mental Symptoms liable to occv/r during the Period of full Functional Activity of the Uterus and Ovaries.—Amongst women of a nervous temperament the monthly ovulation tends to produce regularly recurring mental symptoms which, although not sufficiently definite to be regarded as a distinct disease, are classified as the hysteropsychosis. When in addition to the natural strain of ovulation in such cases there is added some organic obstruction to the men- strual flow, misplacement or structiiral disease of the uterus or ovaries, one would expect to find and does find an exaggeration of all these symp- toms. Many of these cases border very closely upon actual insanity, having at each menstrual period transient attacks of depression or morbid suspicions, and in some cases actual delusions and hallucinations, especially hallucinations of smell. The special sense of smell and the sexual functions in both men and women are very closely connected. In some instances this monthly neurosis imprints upon the brain habits which persist after the menopause. I have seen women, long past the climacteric, suffering from regularly occurring monthly attacks of dipso- mania, each attack lasting for a few days. The history in each case being that these patients had been accustomed to relieve their menstrual pains with alcoholic stimulants. There are undoubtedly cases of insanity directly due to such menstrual pain; but, firstly, one must remember that there was almost certainly in each case a predisposition to mental instability, and the menstrual pain was merely the last link in the chain of adverse causes which precipitated the attack ; and, secondly, such cases of insanity present no special symptoms which would enable a psychologist to diagnose them as being due to uterine or ovarian disease. In what percentage of the women patients in asylums does actual uterine or ovarian disease occur 1 Does opera- tive treatment benefit cases so aff"ected % These are questions at present unanswerable from statistics in this country. In the asylums in Great Britain and Ii-eland no systematic exam- inations of women patients have been made. In the United States of America and Canada, however, it appears to be in some asylums a routine practice to examine the women patients. Hobbs of Ontario states that out of 800 insane women patients 220 were examined, and 85 per cent of these had distinct lesions of the pelvic organs; 173 of these women were operated upon, 42 per cent recovered mentally, 24 per cent were relieved, 32 per cent were not im- proved. He believes that the introduction of gynaecological surgery into asylums as part of the regular treatment has raised the recovery rate from 33 to 51 per cent. Ernest Hall states that out of 75 cases of insanity in women in private practice only four were found to be free from uterine or ovarian disease. Out of 38 of these cases operated upon 6 recovered. Dr. Robe states that out of 100 women examined, 40 had lesions of the sexual organs, and he strongly believes in early opera- tive treatment. The question as to whether operative treat- ment is justifiable in insane women is often debated with considerable warmth. As a woman suffering from mental disease does not differ structurally from her sane sister, it is reasonable to suppose that treatment considered desirable and beneficial for the one cannot be injurious to the other. The consensus of opinion now is that operative procedure, if required, should be performed just as readily in the insane as in the sane woman, only in the former the consent of the patient herself, if possible, and certainly that of the friends, guardian, or curator, should be obtained in writing. From time to time isolated and striking recoveries are recorded amongst insane women as the result of a gynaecological operation, and the recorder of the case may draw too sanguine conclusions from the example brought prominently luider his notice. In connection with such cases it should be remembered that many insane patients re- cover just as marvellously after attacks of