466 VINEGAR part of water to 8 parts of clarified honey (dose, 1 to 2 fl. dr.). See Aceta. Vinum. (See Vina. Viola.tion. See Medicine, Forensic {Rape). Violet.—One of the colours of the spectrum; also the name given to several staining agents (methyl-violet, gentian-violet, etc.) used in histo- logical investigations. See Colour Vision ; Spectroscope in Medicine ; Post - Mortem Methods {Examination of Tissues, Staining). Violin-Player's Cramp. &e Neur- oses, Occupation {Etiology). Viperidse. See Snake-Bites and Poison- ous Fishes ; Snake-Bite in the British Isles. VirchOW'S Disease.—Leontiasis ossea or megalocephaly. See Leontiasis Ossea. Virg^inian Prune Bark. See Prunes. Vi rgi n ity. See Medicine, Forensic {Rape, Evidence). Virility.—The power of procreation as an attribute of the male after the age of puberty ; the penis is sometimes called the virile member. Virus.—A poison (microbic or chemical) which causes a disease or pathological change ; it can be deprived of some of its virulence by culture and inoculation, and is then called attenuated virus ; the virus of hydrophobia when propagated through a series of rabbits increases in virulence till it reaches a stage when its incubation period is seven days—it is then called virus fixe; the lymph taken from the vaccine pustule of a human being is called humanised virus. Vis.—Power of force; e.g. vis formativa (formative or reparative energy, as shown in the tissues), vis medicatrix naturae (the natural tendency to recovery or healing in contrast to that due to medicines or to operations), vis a tergo (force acting from behind, e.g. the uterine contractions in labour in contrast to the vis a fronte as exhibited by the forceps). Viscera.—The plural of viscus, any one of the organs of the four body-cavities (head, thorax, abdomen, or pelvis); e.g. the abdominal viscera, such as the intestines, stomach, liver, spleen, etc. Visceral Pain. I. Definition ..... 466 II. Nerve-Supply op the Viscera . 467 III. Evidence op the Insensitiveness of the Viscera— (a) Experimental . . .467 {h) Clinical .... 467 IV. Nature of the Pain evoked by Stimulation of the Viscera . 468 V. The Sensory Supply of the Testicle ..... 468 VI. The Sensory Supply of the Ori- fices of the Body . . . 469 VII. Clinical Evidence op the Re- ferred Nature of the Pain . 469 (a) The Radiation of the Pain 469 {b) The Distribution of the Hyperoesthesia . . 469 VIII. The Character of Cutaneous Hyperesthesia .... 470 IX. Muscular Hyperoesthesia and Muscular Contraction . .471 X. The Spreading of Symptoms . 472 XI. Tender Nerves and Tender Ver- tebral Spines . . . .472 XII. Visceral and Cutaneous Muscu- lar Reflexes .... 472 XIII. Sensory Symptoms of Individual Organs and Structures . . 473 (a) The Hollow Muscular Or- gans — Digestive Tube, Gall-Ducts, Ureter, Blad- der, Uterus, Heart . 473 {b) Serous Membranes . . 477 (c) Parenchymatous Tissues . 478 XIV. Outline of Theory concerning the Relationship of the Sympa- thetic System to the Cerebro- spinal 479 See also under the various organs, Bladder, Brain, Liver, Lungs, etc. ; Post-mortem Methods {Examination of Body Cavities); Teratology {Heterotaxy); etc. I. Definition.—Pain is a disagreeable sensa- tion due to stimulation of some part of a cerebro- spinal sensory nerve or its centre, and referred to its peripheral distribution in the external body wall. The term cerebro-spinal used here has refer- ence solely to the nerves arising from the brain and spinal cord, and distributed to the external body wall. Although the tendency is at present to regard the division of the nervous system into cerebro-spinal and sympathetic as obsolete, yet there are good grounds, to be shown in the following argument, for maintaining the distinction. In the above definition it is contended that wherever the stimulation reaches the cerebro- spinal sensory nerve, whether in the brain, in the spinal cord, in the trunk of the nerve, or in its peripheral endings, the sensation of pain is referred to the peripheral distribution of the nerve. Thus in certain diseases of the brain, and in rare cases of epileptic aura, where the stimulation affects a part of the cortex of the brain, which is in connection with the sensory nerve, the sensation is referred to the peripheral distribution of that nerve. In diseases of the