URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 284 early days after delivery, when its appearance may be attributed to the rapid involution of the uterus. In another class of cases it results from the tissue changes which occur in an infarcted area, from which the blood-supply has been cut off by the lodgment of an embolus in the artery which feeds it. The rapid breaking down of tissues which occurs in the liver in cases of acute yellow atrophy and phosphorus- poisoning may also cause albumosuria, and it has occasionally been met with in cases of cirrhosis hepatis. A like result may follow from degenerative changes in malignant growths, and in cases in which the intestines are the seats of extensive ulcerative lesions. When exudations rich in leucocytes are imdergoing absorption the conditions favourable to the production of albumosuria are naturally present, and both in cases of pneumonia during the stage of resolution, and in connection with suppurative processes, such as empyema and bronchiectasis, the phenomenon is often to be observed. These are indeed the most important varieties of albumosuria from the clinical stand- point. It should be mentioned that some observa- tions which have been recorded are not easily to be explained on the above view, as, for example, the occasional detection of albumoses in urine in the earlier stages of pneumonia, and Fischel's observations on the occurrence of albuminuria in pregnancy for some weeks before delivery. Histon has been detected in the urine by Krehl and Matthes in cases of peritonitis, pneumonia, erysipelas, and scarlatina, and by Kolisch and Burian in a case of lymphatic leukaemia. The Bence-Jones Proteid.—In the rare cases in which this substance is met with in urine it is usually present in large amount, and may be recognised by methods which are of easy applica- tion in ordinary clinical work. In Bradshaw's case it was partly in the form of a solid sedi- ment. Unlike deutero-albumose it is precipi- tated on heating the urine, which becomes turbid at the low temperature of about 40° C. On further heating a bulky flocculent precipitate is formed which clings with peculiar tenacity to the sides of the containing test-tube. Precipita- tion is complete at about 58°-60° C. On further heating, and especially if a few drops of acetic acid have been added, the precipitate almost completely or completely disappears, and the urine is left nearly or quite clear. The low temperature at which the precipitate forms and the behaviour on further heating are quite characteristic and serve to differentiate the Bence-Jones proteid from all other proteids met with in urine. With Heller's nitric-acid test the substance yields a ring as do albumin and globulin. The nature of the Bence-Jones proteid has been specially studied by Magnus Levy, who arrived at the conclusion that, in spite of its resemblance to hetero-albumose, its proper place is among the albumins rather than the members of the albumose group. It is interesting to note that Ziilzer has found a proteid with identical properties in the urine of dogs poisoned with pyridin. The clinical importance of the Bence-Jones proteid is due to its association with myelomat- ous and myelosarcomatous growths in the bony skeleton, such growths having been present in cases which have come to post-mortem examina- tion, and have been successfully diagnosed during life on the ground of the presence of this substance in the urine. Until the last few years only some five cases of its occurrence were known, but of recent years the subject has received much attention from Bradshaw and others in this country, and also from continental observers, with the result that fresh examples have rapidly multiplied. These later observa- tions have tended to supply confirmatory evi- dence of the special diagnostic significance of the condition. Hemoglobin.—The last proteid to be con- sidered is haemoglobin, but as hsematuria and haemoglobinuria have both been treated of in special articles (y.w.) they need only be briefly referred to here. It will suffice to recall the fact that hsematuria implies heemorrhage from some portion of the urinary tract, whereas the cause of hsemoglobinuria lies behind the kidneys, in the presence of free htemoglobin in the blood plasma. Urines which contain hsemoglobin yield the ordinary tests for albumins, and the failure to obtain positive results by these tests suffices to exclude its presence. The blood-pigment may be present in the urine either as oxyhsemoglobin or as methsemo- globin, and often both are present together. The presence of methsemoglobin is recognised by the dark absorption band in the red which forms the most conspicuous feature in its spectrum, and the familiar absorption bands of oxyhtemoglobin are usually conspicuously visible, especially in urines which have a pink colour. Methsemoglobin may become transformed into oxyheemoglobin when the urine is allowed to stand, and the colour of the liquid changes, at the same time, from brown to pink. In alka- line urines, which often have a peculiar livid tint, some reduction of oxyhsemoglobin takes place in the deeper layers, which often exhibit the bands of reduced haemoglobin and of oxyhaemo- globin in superposition. The spectroscopic test is of great value for the recognition of blood- pigment, but it must be borne in mind that, when only a trace is present, and that in the form of methaemoglobin, the absorption bands may be very faint and quantities may be over-