TUBERCULOSIS 122 swellings, containing cheesy material, on the forearm of an adult who as a child had had tuberculosis. The swellings had the micro- scopic characters of sebaceous cysts. In the last case the explanation that the bacilli were dead or attenuated is not altogether outwith the realms of possibility. He concludes that the only reliable test is injection of suspected material into susceptible animals. This does not solve the difficulty, however, as other observers have shown that acid-fast organisms—not tubercle—can produce experi- mental lesions identical with those of tubercle, so that we are thrown back again on cultural characters to control experimental results. Moller observed the presence of acid-fast organisms in the mouth and sputum of non- tuberculous patients. Marzinowski f oimd similar bacilli in the tonsil. Dietrich, in 1899, found acid-fast bacilli, resembling but distinct from those of tubercle, in a suppurating cyst of the ovary which had ruptured into the intestine. The chief complication in the diagnosis of tuberculosis of the urinary tract in man is the presence of the smegma bacillus in the urine. This cannot be distinguished by its morphologi- cal characters alone from the tubercle bacillus. The tubercle bacillus is exceedingly pleomorphic, and may simulate the usually shorter and thicker smegma bacillus; and, on the contrary, the latter may occur as thin granular rods, indistinguishable from the typical organism of tuberculosis. As a rule, however, the smegma bacillus is not so resistant to decolorisation by alcohol as the tubercle bacillus, and so can be distinguished from it. It is harmless when inoculated into animals. The smegma bacillus was first discovered by Tavel and Alvarez, and fully described by Kruse. Pappenheim recommends the following method of differentiating the tubercle bacillus from the smegma bacillus:— 1. Stain in the ordinary way with carbol- fuchsin. 2. Decolorise without washing in water, by immersing 3-5 times in a solution composed of absolute alcohol 100 parts, corallin 1, methylene blue to saturation, glycerine 20 parts. 3. Wash, dry, and mount in balsam. The tubercle bacilli appear red, the smegma bacilli blue. The bacillus of Leprosy is morphologically similar to that of tuberculosis, but it may be distinguished by being found in " lepra " cells, in the nodules in the disease, or lying in the sheaths of the nerves in the anfesthetic form. Moreover, they stain with ordinary aqueous aniline dyes, and at room temperature, whereas this fails with tubercle. When stained by Ziehl Neelsen's method they decolorise more readily. G. van Houtum claims to have isolated the specific bacillus of leprosy {Jl. of Path, and Bact., Sept. 1902). Lustgarten's Syphilis bacillus also resembles the tubercle bacillus, but it still possesses a doubtful individuality, being possibly simply the smegma bacillus. In any case it has not been found in sufficient numbers, or with sufficient constancy in syphilitic lesions, to merit further attention here. The tubercle bacillus also stains by the complicated methods recommended by Lustgarten, and Baumgarten suggests that the few cases in which Lust- garten's bacillus has been found may be cases of mixed infection of tuberculosis and syphilis. In certain domestic animals, and in foods derived from them, numerous acid-fast bacilli have been discovered. They are extremely common in milk. Many of these, however, can be decolorised with alcohol. Others, however, resemble tubercle bacilli in their properties and characters so closely that diagnosis is very difficult. Acid-fast organisms, not tubercle bacilli, have been found by Murray Cowie in films made from scrapings from the udders and teats of healthy cows. Similar organisms are frequently found in butter and cheese. The chief butter bacillus is one isolated by Petri and Babinowitsch (^Mycobacterium butyri). It is very like the tubercle bacillus, but now and then is thicker. In its protoplasm deeply coloured granules are sometimes visible, as in that bacillus. It grows at room temperature, and at incubator tempera- ture there is visible growth after twenty-seven hours. Inoculation into guinea-pigs gives rise to nodular swellings resembling to some extent tuberculous infiltrations, but none of the animals inoculated reacted to tuberculin. In this connection it has been reported that true tubercle bacilli, when mixed with melted butter and injected into the peritoneal cavity, do not produce a generalised tuberculosis, but simply a localised fibrous thickening of the peritoneum. Korn claims to have isolated another bacillus from butter similar to tubercle, but differing in some respects from the Petri-Rabinowitsch bacillus. Moller isolated acid-fast bacilli from cow-dung presenting certain characters distinguishing from tubercle bacilli and from other acid-fast organisms. The same investigator created great interest by the announcement of the discovery on certain grasses of acid-fast bacilli closely resembling those of tubercle. One was isolated from timothy grass {Phleum pratense), and hence he named it the Timothy grass bacillus, or Grass bacillus I. It has since been found on other grasses, occurring widely in temperate climates. It resembles tubercle both in staining properties and in culture, and experimental inoculation gives rise to nodular swellings closely simulating those produced by tubercle.