42 TONGUE Nervous Affections of the Tongue Neuralgia of the tongue is seldom confined to the distribution of the lingual nerve. As a rule the pain radiates along other branches of the trigeminal. The pain in the tongue is usually unilateral, and may be associated with the appearance of an herpetic eruption or of marked exfoliation of the epidermis. The con- dition usually yields to medical treatment, but in inveterate cases it is sometimes necessary to stretch or resect the nerve. Butlin describes a condition closely allied to neuralgia, in which jmin in the region of the foliate papilla is the most prominent symptom. The patient is usually a middle-aged woman, decidedly neurotic, and often with a gouty or rheumatic tendency. She complains of severe burning or aching pain in the region of the foliate papilla, which is situated on the edge of the tongue just in front of the fold of mucous membrane which passes from the anterior pillar of the fauces to the tongue. The pain is usually worst at night, and may last for months or even for years. It is seldom possible to discover any definite cause for the pain. The surgical importance of the condition lies in the fact that the foliate papilla is prominent and red, and is very liable to be mistaken on superficial ex- amination for an early ulcerating cancer. An examination of the opposite side of the tongue, however, will reveal an exactly similar swelling which is not painful. The first and most essential step in treatment is to assure the patient that the affection is not cancerous. If all doubt can be removed from her mind on this point, improvement usually takes place rapidly. Potassium bromide and anti-gouty and anti-rheumatic remedies may be prescribed, and if the pain is severe cocaine may be applied locally. Caustics and other irritating applications are to be sedulously avoided, as they are calculated to produce ulceration which may assume malignant characters. Spasm of the tongue frequently occurs after injuries of the head implicating the centre or trunk of the hypoglossal nerve. It may also appear as a reflex condition in inflammatory affections of the teeth and gums, or as a mani- festation of some general disease of the central nervous system. Paralysis of the tongue—unilateral or bi- lateral—may be due to injury or disease of the nerve centres of the hypoglossal, less frequently to injury or pressure on the nerve trunk. Tongue-Tie. See Tongue {Malforma- tions of). ToniC>—A medicine, regimen, or method of treatment which gives to the patient a feel- ing of greater health and robustness, which increases the tone of the whole body or of a special organ such as the stomach or nervous system; many tonics act by stimulating the digestion, others by improving the blood ; tonic is also used as a term opposed to clonic, indicat- ing continuous tension, e.g. of a muscle in a state of contraction, in tonic spasm. See Pharmacology ; Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Apparatus {Muscular Contractions). Tonka Bean.—The bean of Dipterix odorata, containing Cou77iarin (CgHgOj), used as an antispasmodic in whooping cough (dose, 5 to 8 minims of the liquid extract). Tonometer.—An instrument for measur- ing the tension of the eyeball. See Glaucoma {Symptoms, Increased Tension). Tonsillitis.—Inflammation of the tonsils. See Tonsils, Diseases of {Tonsillitis, Acute, Chronic). Tonsillolith.—A tonsillar concretion. See Tonsils, Diseases of {Chronic Inflammation, Morbid Anatomy). Tonsillotome.—An instrument for re- moving the tonsil or for cutting off a part of it {tonsillotomy), a tonsilsector. See Tonsils, Dis- eases of {Chronic Tonsillitis); Nose, Post- Nasal Adenoid Growths {Operative Treatment). Tonsils, Diseases of. Introduction ...... 42 Tonsillitis ...... 43 Acute ...... 43 Chronic—-Enlarged Toiisils . . 45 Chronic Tonsillar Abscesses . . 47 See also Anesthesia, Ether {In Enlarged Tonsils); Breath {Offensive Odour); Cautery (Uses); Diphtheria (Diagnosis); Galvanic Cautery {Diseases, Hypertrophic Tonsils) ; Larynx {Hypertrophy of Lingual Tonsil); Mumps {Symptoms); Nose, Post-Nasal Ade- noids {Treatment); Oxygen {Hydrogen Peroxide in Tonsillitis); Palate {Cleft Palate, Effects); Pharynx, Examination of {Tonsils); Physi- ology, Food and Digestion {Alimentary Canal, Pharynx and Tonsils); Rheumatism in Children {Symptoms, Tonsillitis); Tongue {Anatomy, Lingual Tonsil); Undulant Fever {Diagnosis, Tonsillitis). General Considerations. — Concerning the function of the tonsils we have little real knowledge. The free passage of leucocytes from their interior to the surface is an established fact (Stohr), and possibly such cells exercise a protective function by destroying septic organ- isms which gain access by the mouth. The frequent absence of tonsils both in children and adults shows that any protective powers which they may exert when present cannot be of great importance to the organism. On the other hand their absorptive power, coupled with the peculiar structure of the gland,