555 WRIST-JOINT DISEASES Incision.—There is no doubt that simple in- cision and drainage will succeed in arresting the disease in cases which have resisted " expectant " treatment. The incisions should be made so as to avoid injury to tendons, vessels, and nerves, and the wounds should be kept open by gauze packing or drainage tubes. They should be made over the most swollen, softened, or tender parts. Arthrotomy and Curetting.—This should be tried before formal excision is resorted to, for reasons which will be found in the following paragraph. Incisions should be made over diseased areas — usually on the dorsum—or sinuses should be opened up, and all tubercular bone and synovial tissue removed by Volkmann's spoon and scissors. Iodoform should be dusted in, the spaces packed with gauze, and a Lister splint applied. Assiduous pursuit of the dis- ease in this way will usually be rewarded by results which will far surpass those that follow excision. Excision of the Wrist.—A review of the sta- tistics of this operation will convince any im- partial critic that the results which follow it are distinctly disappointing. The mortality, of course, is "insignificant," but the functional results are poor, and this, of course, has to be considered in deciding for excision as against amputation. I do not deny that isolated cases occur in which the surgeon has the gratification of observing an almost perfect use of tKe hand as the result of excision, but such cases are the exception. Often the hand can do no more than merely hold articles, and these light ones. Possibly this is often due to a formal resection of the joint being too long delayed. The best method is that by a single incision on the ulnar side (Heron Watson). It is very efficient, as access to the parts is free, and it is much easier of performance than Lister's or other methods. An incision about three inches long is made down to the bone on the ulnar side of the forearm towards the palmar aspect, over the lower end of the ulna, the wrist, and part of the fifth metacarpal bone. After the lower end of the ulna has been cleared, fully an inch of it is removed. The way is opened at once for easy and thorough removal of the disease. As each bone of the carpus is met, the tendon can be easily separated from its surfaces without damage ; the carpus is removed piece by piece, the trapezium being left if sound. The bases of the metacarpal bones are removed, being turned out of the wound if needful. The metacarpals towards the ulnar side may be dealt with before the radial side of the carpus is attacked ; in this way each successive step is made easy. The end of the radius is removed with bone forceps. Few vessels I'equire ligature. The wound is partially stitched and drained by a tube, or it may be packed with gauze. The forearm and hand are bandaged to a Lister splint. Early passive movement of the fingers must be attended to. Amputation.—Excision should not be per- formed in cases in which the patient is old or in weak health, or is the subject of well-marked phthisis; nor in which the disease is too wide- spread to admit of complete removal, or has involved the tendon sheaths in tuberculosis with suppuration and sinuses. In such cases am- putation is the proper practice ; it should be performed by the modified circular method, or any other that is suitable, as close above the wrist as possible. Pyogenic Diseases.—These result either (1) from infection through the blood-stream, as in (a) osteomyelitis of the radius and ulna, or possibly the metacarpal bones; or {h) in pytemia: or else (2) from without, as in the direct infection of wounds, operation or acci- dental, or from the spread of the organismal inflammation from a septic teno-synovitis of the tendons of the wrist. Suppurative arthritis from osteomyelitis of the neighhourituj hones is not nearly so common in the wrist as in other joints, as the knee and ankle (see Joints) ; but pyemic suppurative arthritis quite commonly occurs in the wrist in cases of pysemia. The joint swells often without giving the patient much pain, the skin may not be inflamed, and indeed the surgeon may notice the condition only when taking the patient's hand to examine the pulse. Treat- ment.—The joint should be incised and drained, and the limb bandaged to a splint with the hand in dorsiflexion. Wonderfully good move- ment may be retained by the joint, especially if the tendon sheaths have not been involved. Septic arthritis following suppurative teno- synovitis is unfortunately not a rare sequel to a neglected or inefficiently treated " suppurat- ing whitlow." The symptoms will depend on the type of the original inflammation and its organism. But once the joint is aflFected the severity of the symptoms is increased ; the pain becomes very severe, the swelling and oedema of the wrist and hand increase, and the skin is reddened. The constitutional symptoms corre- spond. If untreated the joint will soon be disorganised; in a few days lateral movement will show that the ligaments are softened, the slightest movement causes intense pain, and the bones, denuded of their cartilage, can be felt to grate on one another. The sheaths of the flexor tendons, of course, are the usual source of the disease Treatment.—As soon as the invasion of the joint is recognised it should be freely opened, the site of the incisions being determined partly by the spots of greatest tenderness, and partly by considerations of access and drainage; then the joint can be readily opened up and drained on the inner side just below the styloid process of the ulna. If possible there should be continuous irrigation