539 WOUNDS whole of the interior and its recesses. Only in this way can sufficient access be gained to ensure thorough disinfection. Tags of skin or fat hopelessly damaged by crushing or detach- ment should be cut away, since they will necrose if left. All bleeding having been finally arrested, the whole of the wound is now to be washed over with antiseptic lotion as completely as possible, no part escaping attention. The good effect of this is largely due to the mechanical removal of germs and debris, but there must also be added the undoubted power of the antiseptic to destroy, or, short of that, inhibit germ life. Following ablution, the parts are to be dried with gauze swabs. 3. Coaptation,—The closure of accidental wounds is apt to be overdone. It is much better to err on the side of doing too little than too much in this direction, even at the cost of some delay in healing. The majority of cases are furnished by the contused and lacerated varieties, and in many examples of these there are fragments of tissue bound to perish, whilst all of them contain parts so devitalised by traumatism that they can offer little or no resistance to pyogenic bacteria. Besides the admitted uncertainty of effecting absolute steril- isation, the risks of further infection are multiplied by a patient's lack of care and know- ledge, together with the uncleanly circumstances of the poorer class; added to which there may be constitutional or local conditions prejudicial to quick repair. Hence, except in a richly vascular region like the face, it is seldom advisable to entirely coapt the edges, lest septic products should get shut in. Within the wound the ends of any divided tendon or important nerve should be sought for and accurately stitched together,— with catgut, if there is reasonable prospect of speedy healing, otherwise with silk, as likely to hold longer. The search for the retracted proximal end of a tendon is not always an easy matter, and will often involve an extension of the wound : re- laxation of the parts will here prove helpful. Cut muscle also should be sewn, but unless the division is complete a point of suture here and there will suffice. Wherever practicable, suc- cessive planes of divided tissue should be re- united in their proper layers by buried catgut sutures—muscle to muscle, fascia to fascia, skin to skin. The question of coaptation may be summed up in the general statement that, as a rule, incised wounds should be closed, all others left more or less open. In the worst lacerations the idea of primary closure cannot be enter- tained ; all that can be done is to fill the gap with a light packing of gauze and await the arrival of conditions favourable to secondary closure. The surgeon will exercise his discretion in dealing with the many intermediate forms of wound between those which may safely be brought into exact apposition and those which must be treated by the open method. Undue tension must always be avoided ; it is certain to be followed by cutting through of the stitches, or death of the stretched flap,—as, for example, in the common case of a triangular flap of skin torn down a limb away from its blood-supply. Suturing is the most suitable way of drawing the edges into contact. The interrupted method is to be preferred to the continuous, because the stitches are more independent, and one or two can be removed without disturbing the rest if it should become necessary to reopen part of the wound. The smooth and non absorbable silkworm-gut, horse-hair, and silver wire, are the best suture materials for this purpose. Many wounds can be adequately closed by the pressure of dressings alone. Adhesive strapping is sometimes useful: it should be cut narrow in the middle and with broad ends (fiddle-shaped), so as to take firm hold of the skin on either side of the wound, and the latter should be covered with a strip of gauze to prevent the bridge of strapping from actual contact with the line of union. Or the gauze may be applied transversely, one end fixed with collodion, the margins of the wound approximated, and the other end of the tense gauze similarly fastened to the skin. Metallic clips without sutures have also been recommended. 4. Drairwbge.—Exudation of sero-albuminous fluid occurs in every wound, the quantity vary- ing with the extent and characters of the injury. The absorption along lymph channels into the blood of fluid and other products of traumat- ism (notably fibrin-ferment, or, according to Schnitzler and Ewald, nucleins and albumoses), gives rise to the phenomena of simple (aseptic) traumatic fever. Moreover, the exudate, in virtue of its composition and temperature, is a pabulum highly favourable to the growth of pyogenic bacteria, and with their inoculation into the wound inflammatory reaction is greatly intensified, fluid exudes more copiously, and toxins are produced. Septic intoxication (sap- raemia) results from the absorption of those chemical compounds, whilst locally the clinical evidences of inflammation manifest themselves and the wound undergoes retrogressive changes. The still more dangerous systemic phenomena of septicaemia or pyaemia follow the onset of suppuration if associated with the transmission of bacteria, alone or mingled with putrifying particles, into the blood-stream. The more abundant the secretions, provided there is no exit by which they can escape externally, the greater will be the tension about the wound and consequently the more readily will constitu- tional infection ensue; added to which, if the patient survive the dangers incurred, there may be considerable damage to structures in the region of the wound, resulting in permanent