YAWNING 585 2. A forcible spasmodic depression of the lower jaw. 3. A flow of tears. 4. A clicking sound in both ears. 5. A tendency to stretch the limbs, especially the arms. 6. An expiration, often accompanied by a sound, the character of which has probably given the name to the act (Poore). We know little or nothing of the cause of yawning. It is a passing phenomenon, which is removed by rest. Yaws. Definition ...... 585 Clinical Features .... 585 Etiology ...... 586 Diagnosis ...... 587 Treatment 588 See also Skin, Bacteriology of {Yaws); Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Constitutional Infective Diseases tvith Marked Skin Lesions). Synonyms.—Framhoesia, Pian (West Indies) ; Buha (Brazil); Coko (Fiji); Tonga (New Cale- donia) ; one of the varieties of Paranghi (Cey- lon) ; Bouton d'Amboine (Moluccas) ; Patek (Sumatra); D\ihea, Ajortor, or Tongara (Gold Coast); Ogodo (Sierra Leone); Effier (Benin); Soombah, Gattoo, Framosi, Tetia, Momba (various West African names); Kwena (Burmah); Lupani (Samoa); Purru (Malay Peninsula). Definition. —- A specific constitutional and communicable disease, occurring almost entirely in the tropics, and chiefly manifesting itself by an eruption of reddish tubercles on the skin. History and Distribution. — Although the disease probably existed much earlier than 1648, the first definite account of it was then given by Pison. It is generally supposed that West Africa was the original home of yaws, and that by means of the slave - trade it spread to the West Indies and South America, but this would not altogether explain its occurrence in Oceania. However this may be, its headquarters at the present day are unquestionably tropical Africa, and more particularly the West Coast, the West Indies, Samoa, Fiji, New Caledonia, and other Pacific islands. It is also common in Ceylon, Java, Sumatra, the Moluccas, and in Brazil, Guiana, and Venezuela. It occurs, too, in Assam * and Borneo, and occasionally in Northern Africa and in India. By the adoption of careful measures of segregation it has been greatly lessened in some West Indian islands (Dominica) in which it was formerly frequent. In Barbados it has practically disappeared. Clinical Features.—The incubation period lasts from two to ten weeks, and is usually unattended by symptoms. Although, in the inoculation experiments of Charlouis in 1880, the average period was about fourteen days. and in those of Paulet twelve to twenty, there is a general consensus of opinion that in naturally acquired yaws it is longer. The disease is frequently ushered in by a febrile attack lasting from a day to a week or more. This is occasionally severe and attended by marked pains, anorexia, ansemia, and so on; but, on the other hand, is sometimes so slight as to be unnoticed. Deep-seated rheumatic pains are, however, usually noted, and these, together with the fever, may recur throughout the illness, preceding the successive crops of yaws. Otherwise the general health is un- affected, imless from such complications as severe ulceration a cachexia is induced. Following these symptoms a papule occasionally appears at the site of inoculation, or if the latter be an already existing sore this becomes unhealthy, or a small ulcer forms. When the primary papule occurs it does not differ from the ordinary eruption, and is not comparable to the initial hard chancre of syphilis. The eruption gradually develops, and may present itself in the form of squamte, papules, or tubercles. Owing to its occurrence in crops all these varieties may be present together, but are really stages of the same eruption. During its development the glands, locally or generally, often become enlarged and tender. The first cutaneous symptom is a dryness and harshness of the skin, followed shortly by the development of irregularly scattered desquamating patches, varying in shape. This squamous stage (pian dartres, yaws caeca) varies in extent, and may be extremely slight, but occasionally involves the entire body. Sometimes it is persistent or appears at a late stage. On the dark skin of the negro well- marked patches are very prominent. In these patches, after some days, minute papules appear and gradually push their way through the epidermis, which splits over them and curls away from their summit. Later, these (pian gratelle) become capped by a spot of a characteristic cheesy, yellowish discharge, and may then gradually disappear or enlarge into the typical granulomata. Like the squam- ous form, however, they sometimes persist as papules, and constitute a most obstinate and long-continued type of eruption. The fully-developed tubercles vary in size from a split-pea to a golf ball, are rounded and hemispherical, or where very large or pressed upon, more flattened, and are covered by a cap of the same yellowish discharge. They may coalesce and form a large irregular patch, and are particularly apt to form clusters about the corners of the mouth and nostrils, where too, from the moisture, they become like condylo- mata, bare and sodden. During the develop- ment of the eruption itching is troublesome, and a peculiar musty smell often accompanies it. The crust, although firmly adherent, can be