418 VARICELLA gangrenous in delicate or tuberculous children, and the result is probably due to the super- vention of extraneous microbic infection, and not to the influence directly of varicella poison. Like the eruptive fevers, varicella may be followed by pertussis, a lowered condition of health paving the way for fresh infection, with increased susceptibility to it." With regarL to the gangrenous affection, it may be said that it consists in the formation of sloughs which, on separation, leave deep ulcers. The ulcers may coalesce. When this morbid action is extensive there is pyrexia, while "lung complications, tubercular, pygemic, or inflam- matory, are very frequent, and determine or hurry on the fatal issue " (H. Radcliff'e Crocker). For illustrations of pruriginous impetigo (following varicella), vide Atlas of Skin Diseases, New Syd. Soc, plate xxxii. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of chicken-pox is, as a rule, easy—especially when the eruption is in the stage of clear watery blebs. The diff'erential diagnosis between smallpox and chicken-pox is a matter of very great im- portance. In the great majority of cases the distinction between the two diseases is made without any difiiculty. It must be honestly confessed, however, that (if the case is seen in the crusted stage, and with only a few spots, and without any clear history) there may be great doubt between chicken-pox and a mild or abortive attack of modified smallpox. Some slight cases of varioloid have little con- stitutional disturbance, and only a few spots— spots which may be easily overlooked, or, if seen in the crusted stage, may be mistaken for chicken-pox. In such exceptional and doubtful cases much assistance will be obtained if the patient can be associated with previous cases of chicken-pox on the one hand, or smallpox on the other. The following scheme presents in contrast the salient features of variola versus varicella, but, like many other elaborations of the study, it may sometimes prove unsatisfactory by the bedside :— Dr Wanklyn deals with the diagnosis between variola and varicella in a very able way : he does not attach much weight to " history " ; the terms "shotty"and " umbilication " he would dismiss as unreliable indications. He attaches great importance to distribution of the rash, which in smallpox abounds on face, wrists, hands, and feet frequently; while in chicken- pox the trunk is the favourite field. In some cases of varicella there may be abundant erup- tion on the face, but not on the forearms and hands or lower extremities. Dr. Wanklyn's article is worthy of careful attention. Chicken-pox and smallpox are separate and distinct diseases. Chicken-pox gives no protection against small- pox, and smallpox gives none against chicken- pox. Vaccination gives no protection against vari- cella. It is sometimes stated (as a point of differen- tial diagnosis between variola and varicella) that while smallpox spots are found on mouth or palate or throat, chicken-pox spots are never found in those situations. The statement is not correct. The varicella eruption may also be found in these localities. A difficulty in diag- nosis may arise between chicken-pox and some skin diseases, such as eczema pustulosum and impetigo. As regards impetigo, it is stated that the eruption may be distinguished by its pustular character, the absence of red areola, and the fact that the rash has not the wide distribution of chicken-pox. Unna (p. 552) describes a varicelliform syphi- lide, which he says " is very rare." Dr. R. S. Thomson has described a disease occurring in Lascars which in some points re- sembled smallpox and in others chicken-pox. He concludes that it is neither, but a separate disease. He refers to similar cases recorded in Jamaica more than thirty years since by Dr. Isett Anderson. The subject is one of much interest. It is to be borne in mind that varicella may manifest itself at the same time as measles or scarlet fever. Dr. Webber records a case of " concurrent Smallpox Prodromata severe Heavy sickness, severe pain in back, vomiting. Spots come out on 3rd day. Spots come out in pro- gressive order from above downwards—face, hands and arms, trunk, legs, feet. Temperature : three days' j)yrexia at onset, and pyrexia again when suppuration occurs, about the ninth day (called the secondary, or suppurative fever). Liable to have very grave complications and sequelae. The centre of the vesicle is depressed. Eruption apt to leave pits, often deep and permanent. Chicken-pox Prodromata slight or absent Perhaps slight headache, pain in back, shivering. Spots come out on 1st day. Spots come out in successive crops, the new spots being widely distributed. Temperature not high as a rule. But pyrexia accom- panies each fresh crop of spots if tlie eruption is profuse. Neither complications nor sequelae to be reckoned with, as a rule. The centre of the vesicle is the highest point. Pitting occasional, and slight as a rule.