566 X-RAYS The order of transparency is not always the same as the order of density; thus uric acid calculi are more dense than calculi of phos- phates, but are more transparent (Swain). Biliary calculi have much the same ti'ansparency as the skin, and are therefore very difficult to photograph in situ unless there be a thick mass of them. In actinic effect the Rtintgen rays are far behind violet and ultra violet light ; it has been calculated that they have only one- sixtieth the actinic effect of a candle. In pro- ducing fluorescence and in discharging electrified bodies they are, however, more powerful; they cause bariimi platinocyanide to fluoresce with a yellowish green, while ultra violet light causes it to shine with a brilliant green. The Riintgen rays will discharge a positively or a negatively charged body ; the ultra violet light, unless of high refrangibility, will only discharge a nega- tively electrified body provided with a clean zinc or other special metallic surface, and will only do this at a comparatively short range. Further, the Rontgen rays appear to have no bactericidal effect, while ultra violet light can kill cultures of the staphylococcus pyogenes aurevis in four seconds. Lastly, they differ in their clinical effect; ultra violet light produces a transient hypei"- semia or erythema, and sometimes some pig- mentation, the granulomatous tissue of lupus has in time its vitality destroj^ed and undergoes degeneration (Macleod), but under no circum- stances does destruction of healthy tissue follow. The Riintgen rays, if pushed, or in susceptible people, will produce severe dermatitis and in- tractable ulcers; changes in the nails, falling off of the hair, and pigmentation are common. The Rontgen ray dermatitis is a cumulative effect, and it may not come on until a week or more after the cessation of the exposures, hence great caution is necessary. A patient may have had half-a-dozen exposures of five to ten minutes each, and may go away with apparently no risk of dermatitis, but in a few days' time may suffer from severe smarting and burning sensa- tions. The skin becomes red, then dusky purple and oedematous, and it may give way and be followed by an indolent suppurating sore. This dermatitis may be prolonged, and it will not yield to remedies. The pathological changes are mainly confined to the blood-vessels, which become dilated and de- generated ; thrombosis follows ; and dense bands of connective tissue are formed. The hair follicles and sebaceous glands disappear. See also p. 576. Mode of Production of the Rontgen Rays The rays, so far as we are at present aware, can only be produced by passing electrical dis- charges through highly exhausted vacuum tubes. In time to come we may, perhaps, be able to make use of the radiation of certain uranium compounds, or of radium ; their bodies yield a constant radiation akin to the X radiation, but in feeble amount. At present we require electricity of high potential and properly constructed vacuum tvibes. There are two chief methods for producing the electricity; the one method is to make use of a static influence machine, the other is to use an induction coil. There are several kinds of influence machine, the Holtz, Voss, Wimshurst, Pidgeon, and Gaiffe. In this country the Wimshurst is in most use, but it is probable that the Pidgeon will dis- place it. Whichever machine be chosen it is essential that the plates be of large size—20-36 inches in diameter—and many in number. A Wimshurst (Fig. 1) machine for this purpose might consist of ten 24-inch plates, but larger plates woiild be an advantage. The plates are best made of a special quality of glass. Gaiffe uses ten ebonite Fig. 1.—Wimshurst intluence machine. Griffin. plates, and the advantage of this is that there is no risk of breaking the plates by a too rapid rotation ; thus owing to the great rate at which the plates can be revolved the output is con- siderably greater. The objection to the use of ebonite is that it is liable under the influence of light to lose its surface insulation, and also to warp, and therefore for a permanent installa- tion, and where portability is not concerned, glass is to be preferred. The terminals of the ordinary vacuum tube are not very suitable for use with a static machine; it is better to have a tube with ball-shaped terminals, and to allow a small spark gap to intervene on either side between the wires attached to the influence machine and the terminals of the tube. A good deal will depend upon the proper arrangement of these spark gaps, and their lengths should be varied until the tube yields the best radia- tion ; sometimes the tube will work better without them. For Gaiffe's influence machine a special tube with cylindrical terminals called the Chabaud-Villard is supplied. These sources of difficulty, together with the trouble often