VACCINATION 388 even the chemical vahie, as we may call it, of the antidote is by no means uniform. We must not expect mathematical precision in what is fundamentally a vital process. The cliild after vaccination grows rapidly, and the amount of antidote which secured him complete protection at first may be insufficient when his body-weight has changed from ten or twelve pounds to four stone or more. Presently a time comes when he can again take the disease, though he is so far protected that it is not severe enough even to disfigure, much less to kill him. Later on he is still less protected, and presently he has practically used up the influence of his infant vaccination. The store of the antidote should be renewed by revaccination. It is impossible to say exactly when these stages from safety to danger are reached. The strength of the assail- ing poison varies no less than the strength of its antidote. Smallpox has always varied much in its degree of severity. Even in un vaccina ted people it is sometimes quite a mild disease. In the Leicester epidemic 1892-93 the type of the disease for the most part was very mild. Of 357 cases 261 were quite mild; among them there was no death ; there were 89 confluent cases, with 14 deaths; and only 7 malignant cases, with 7 deaths. Jenner was mistaken when he said vaccina- tion would be as lasting a protection against smallpox as a previous attack; and much of the discredit which has fallen upon vaccination is due to this error on his part. It is un- fortunate that he did not realise that he was not in a position to know how long the pro- tective influence of vaccination would last. It needed only twenty years to show that after even efficient vaccination a slow progi'ess from safety towards danger is inevitable, and that revaccination at least once after childhood is necessary if protection is to be maintained. In spite, however, of the almost universal oblivion of this fact, the effect of vaccination during the past century has been very striking. If we ask for exact figures, each country must be studied separately; we must know what the law is as to vaccination, how the law is ad- ministered, and how far it is actually enforced or evaded. The conditions vary in each country. England. — The first vaccination law in England was passed in 1840. It recommended vaccination, but left the parent free to adopt or to decline it. In 1853 vaccination was nominally made compulsory, and penalties were imposed for non-compliance with the law. Practically, however, these provisions were found to be very imperfect, and the obligation to be vaccinated was little more than nominal till paid vaccination officers were appointed. In 1867 power was given to Unions to appoint such officers, but in many Unions the power was not exercised. In 1870 nearly half of the Unions were reported not to have appointed vaccination officers. In 1871 the Act of 1867 was amended, by making the appointment of paid vaccination officers comp\ilsory in all Unions, and by improving the methods of registering vaccinations. In 1898 "the tremendous experi- ment " (as Lord Lister called it in the debate in the House of Lords) was made of practically leaving infant vaccination to the discretion of the father. The whole effect of the Act of 1898 will be considered later. Omitting it for the moment, it may be said that the number of deaths from smallpox in England steadily declined with each of the improvements in the law enforcing vac- cination. Instead of 2000 to 4000 per million as in the eighteenth century we had, during optional vaccination (1840 - 53), an average death-rate of 417 per naillion. With enjoined vaccination from 1854 to 1871, there was a rate of 154 per million; and with enforced vaccina- tion the rate was again reduced to 99. During the ten years 1889 to 1898 the mortality rate per million averaged 10 only. In London, Dr. Farr's estimate of the annual smallpox mortality at the end of the eighteenth century was 5020 per million; under enforced vaccina- tion this has been reduced to an average of 178 per million for the eighteen years ending 1890. In considering these figures we must bear in mind that though a compulsory law does much, it fails to compel in a minority of cases, and that when we speak of compulsion it is likely that in every community there will be a considerable number of people whose parents have succeeded in evading the law as to infant vaccination. Moreover, in England there is no law enforcing revaccination, and the large majority of adults have not been revaccinated, so that in the pre- sence of an epidemic many of those vaccinated in infancy prove to be again liable to take the infection. The number of persons in this posi- tion will vary with the amount of public feeling for or against vaccination, and with the care taken to devise methods by which indirect pres- sure shall be brought to bear in favour of vaccination. It is also important to remember that even the low rate of mortality in England in recent years represents a considerable annual aggregate of deaths, and about seven times as many cases of illness; a death-rate of only 10 per million sounds low, but it comes to over 300 deaths a year, and it implies about 2000 cases of illness which might be prevented. It will be seen in studying the facts as to vaccination in ; the German Empire how far England is from j the highest measure of success in the prevention of smallpox. J In tabular form we have :— 1 For all England. Deaths. ] 18th century rate, :i minimum of 2000 per million. 1801, Vaccination introduced and largely adopted . . No precise figures.