385 VACCINATION from Gloucester to Newport, he confided it to him. Gardiner said that Jenner did so " with deep and anxious emotion," and that he said, " Gardiner, I have entrusted to you a most important matter which I firmly believe may prove to be of inestimable value to the human race." He added, "Say nothing of this; if it fails, all would laugh at me, and something untoward may happen." Year by year he brooded over the idea, and watched for an opportunity of testing its truth. Finally, six- teen years later, his chance came. In May 1796 he was able to take vaccine lymph from a person who had contracted cowpox, and with it to inoculate a boy who had not had smallpox. Vaccine vesicles resulted. Six weeks later he tried to inoculate the boy with smallpox lymph, and it failed. He wrote to Gardiner to tell him the result of the experiment, and added, " But now comes the most delightful part of my story. On July 1st the boy was inoculated for smallpox, but without any result." After this Jenner went on passing the vaccine lymph through a succession of people, and then in- oculating them for smallpox, always with the same result; those in whom he had produced vaccine vesicles did not respond to the small- pox inoculation—they were immune to the contagion. Two years were thus occupied; then he came to London and published his Inquiry into the Causes and Effects of the VarioloB Vaccines: a disease discovered in some of the western counties of Eiigland, particularly Gloucestershire, and known hy the name of Cow- pox. It is worth noting that Jenner boldly called cowpox smallpox of the cow; also that he did not claim to have had any share in its discovery. In the hundred and more years since the Inquiry appeared, after endless con- troversies on the suljject, Jenner's name for cowpox has held its place. We believe, as he did, that the two diseases, cowpox and small- pox, are essentially from one stock, and that either in cowpox the virus has been attenuated by passing through the constitution of the cow, or that it has become much more virulent by passing through the system of the human. With the exception of a few cranks, the whole of the civilised world accepted the boon Jenner had been able to offer it with enthusiasm and joy. Every one knew then what smallpox was ; almost every one had lost relatives from it; a still largei number had seen the fair young faces around them disfigured for life by its ravages. Honours poured in upon Jenner. Almost every crowned head in Europe did him honour. We hear of his being asked to appeal to Napoleon on behalf of a Gloucestershire man taken prisoner in the wars. As Napoleon wrote the order of release he said, " I can refuse nothing to that man." The great majority of mankind, when Jenner had established his facts, welcomed with enthusiasm the deliverance he VOL. X had brought them. Much, no do>ibt, remained to be learnt about vaccination, and on one im- portant point Jenner himself went wrong. He thought the protection acquired through the agency of vaccine lymph would prove to be as lasting as that conferred by having had the smallpox itself. The early observers had to find out when to take the lymph from the vaccine vesicle, how soon after vaccination its protective influence would be felt, if one vesicle was as efficacious as three or four, and if the modified disease was ever in itself a source of danger. Probably the importance of each of these points was only gradually appreciated. The attention of every one was fixed on the point of greatest moment, viz. : " Have we in vaccination a possible mode of escape from the demon of smallpox 1" They would not be able at first to think of much more than this. One of the most interesting episodes in the early history of vaccination was the method adopted to convey the newly found boon to the Spanish-American dominions. The ravages due to smallpox at the time of the conquest of Mexico were still remembered. Other severe epidemics had frequently occurred. The diffi- culty of conveying the lymph across the Atlantic was considerable. It was not the age of swift steamers, cold chambers, or capillary tubes. Ingenuity had to find a way. Children who had not had the smallpox were sent to Spanish America, one or two being vaccinated each week during the voyage, and in this way the lymph arrived at its destination in a fresh and active condition. The supplement to the Madrid Gazette dated 14th October 1806 contains the following account of the expedition which had started from Corunna on 20th November 1803 : " On Sunday, 7th September last. Dr. Francis Xavier Balmis, surgeon extraordinary to the king, had the honour of kissing his Majesty's hand on the occasion of his return from a voyage round the world, executed with the sole object of carrying to all the possessions of the Crown of Spain situated beyond the seas the inestimable gift of vaccine inoculation." " The expedition consisted of three frigates, with several physicians and twenty-two children who had not had the smallpox. . . . The children, many of whom were very small, were placed under the care of a matron, and the greatest attention was paid to their cleanliness and comfort. At New Spain they made a fresh start with twenty-six more children. Material for vaccination was lavishly distributed through the northern part of Spanish America, and in each capital a central society was formed. Half of the expedition went to the Philippine Islands, Macao, and Canton, and the other half to Peru. This section was wrecked, but happily the sub- director, his three physicians, and the children came to no harm. The expedition was often publicly received by the bishops, military 25