575 X-RAYS Lupus.—The Eontgen ray treatment of lupus was preceded by the Finsen light treatment. "So long ago as September 1899, Dr. Finsen had treated 350 cases of this disease with a satisfactory result in 345. This result has been so certain and coiistant that there is even reason to doubt the accuracy of the diagnosis of lupus vulgaris when this method of treatment appears to be ineffective. The light treatment will only cure lupus of the skin, the hard palate, the front part of the septum nasi, tongue, and the mucous membrane of the cheek" (Brit. Med. Journal, Sept. 30, 1899). When the disease is more deeply situated the Rdntgen rays, in consequence of their penetra- tive power, can be used, but the rays can also be used for the superficial cases; in fact, it would nowadays appear highly probable that the rays will supersede the Finsen light en- tirely in the treatment of lupus. The rays produce their effect much more quickly, and that over a much larger area; an exposure of five minutes to the rays has as much or more effect as a fifteen-minute exposure to the Lortet and Genoud lamp, or an hour's ex- posure to the original Finsen lamp. It is, however, claimed that the cos- metic effect of the light is better than that of the rays ; this is doubtful, but a more serious disadvantage of the rays is the risk there is of setting up a serious and intractable dermatitis. There are two methods of treating lupus by Rontgen rays : the one method is to expose the part to the rays alone ; the other method is to combine the action of some medicament with that of the rays; this if applied in suitable cases much hastens the reaction and shortens the treatment. If the first method be adopted a suitable mask of lead foil or of thin lead is so cut as to shade the parts that it is not desired to affect, and the patient so protected is placed about four to eight inches away from a medium or somewhat soft tube ; an exposure of about five minutes is then given ; this may be repeated daily for a week, and then three times a week, careful watch being kept for any signs of ery- thema. This usually requires about one hour's total exposure, but it may in susceptible cases and with hot tubes require less, while in other cases it may require much more. At the first sign of erythema treatment should be sus- pended, and the patient told to return in a week or fortnight, when the treatment will be resimied. This is at once the safest method of employing the rays, and the least painful and troublesome to the patient. The treatment in severe cases will have to be prolonged even for months, and there is a strong tendency to recurrence. Fig. 19.—Pelvic sinus with probe. In the second method the affected part is first painted with tincture of iodine or carbolic lotion 1-20, or pure carbolic acid or Jarisch's ointment, and then protected and exposed as before. Considerable reaction follows in a day or two attended by pain, swelling, and some sloughing; the treatment is suspended, and the ulcer covered with zinc ichthyol salve miislin renewed once a day. After the ulcer has healed the treatment, if necessary, can be resumed and repeated until the patient is cured. Recurrence is usual. Dr. Lowe [Archives of the Rontgen Ray, Feb. 1903) thinks that lupus aff'ecting a fair skin yields more rapidly to the rays than when it affects a dark skin; the time required is increased in proportion to the amount of pig- mentation. As in rodent ulcer, so in lupus, the character of the cicatrix is all that can