450 VESICUL^ SEMINALES 25 to 30 mm. long at the age of ten years, but as soon as the spermatic function is established, the activity of development which affects the testes, the penis, the larynx, and other organs affects equally the vesicles, which acquire very rapidly the volume they maintain during the whole genital life of the individual. Their in- fantile aspect may persist. The seminal vesicles have no analogue in the woman. Contents and Function.—The normal vesi- cular fluid is white with a bluish-white tinge like skimmed milk, and becomes quite viscid and sticky when exposed to the air. It is alka- line on reaction, with a peculiar heavy odour, and coagulates on heating. It is saline, and on standing numerous groups of crystals appear in it (Bbttcher's crystals), consisting chiefly of phosphates. Besides spermatozoa the fluid con- tains a few leucocytes, numerous epithelial cells slightly larger than leucocytes, a few round refractive cells, and considerable granular material. The function of the vesicles is to store, temporarily, the testicular secretion, and also to provide means to preserve its vitality during that period. The semen is driven into the vesicles by a pumping action exerted upon it by the ampulla of Henle, and is expelled therefrom by a strong simultaneous contraction of the muscular fibres of the prostate and of the walls of each seminal vesicle. The amount of testicular and vesicular fluid secreted in a given time varies greatly, and depends much on the mode of life and condi- tions of the individual. The amount of fluid ejaculated at a given instance varies much, depending, in a measure, on the frequency of the act. When the act is solitary and infre- quent it averages from half to a drachm. Abnormalities. — No observations are yet recorded on the congenital deficiencies and irregularities of the seminal vesicles alone, but their condition in cases of retained or absent testis have been noted. The seminal vesicles either unilaterally or bilaterally—according to whether one or both of the testes have failed to take up their positions in scrotum—show evidence of want of development, and appear as if they were almost absent in some instances. The vesicle on the side on which a testis has not descended is small, very saccular, and unfilled by semen. It is in connection with the seminal vesicles that most of the pathological changes occur which cause disturbances in the sexual function ; and the amount of disturbance in this function which these pathological processes cause seems to depend largely at least on the extent to which they interfere with the act of ejaculation. The changes due to inflammation are the chief pathological factors in their consideration. Inflammation of the Seminal Vesicle.— Spermatocystitis. Seminal Vesiculitis or Vesicu- litis.—Vesiculitis is the term applied to inflam- mation of the seminal vesicle, and may be acute, subacute, or chronic. The first is usually gonor- rhoea!, the second frequently simple, and the third either tuberculous or gonorrhceal. In- flammation depending on syphilis, gout, in- fluenza, etc., probably occurs also. Ac^ite Vesiculitis.—Acute vesiculitis is almost always excited by some affection of the mem- branous or prostatic urethra, iisually by gonor- rhceal, but occasionally by other forms of urethritis. The inflammation is the result of direct extension of the pre-existing inflammatory process, and is neither due to metastasis, sym- pathy, nor reflex congestion. Its analogies with acute epididymitis are striking, and are well worth attention. In the first place, both affec- tions are rarely primary, but are almost always secondary to urethral inflammation. They occur in the third or fourth week of a gonor- rhoea. The inflammatory process in both affects also the surrounding connective tissue, and is characterised by a considerable amount of swelling, giving rise to the well-known ovoidal mass filling one-half of the scrotum in the one case, and to the diffused brawny swelling felt through the anterior wall of the rectum—mis- taken for the acutely inflamed prostate — in the other. In epididymitis it is well known that it is not the testicle which swells, but the epididymal connective tissue ; and in seminal vesiculitis it will be found, if a careful examina- tion is made, that it is not the prostate which is swollen, but the vesicular or perivesicular tissue beyond. Suppuration in both cases is the exception, and resolution the rule. When acute inflammation invades the seminal vesicle that organ becomes swollen to the feel and approaches the size of a goose-egg. On touching it through the rectum, pain almost unbearable is experienced. The cavity of the sac may be distended with pus, and its walls, together with the perivesicular tissues, are swollen and oedematous. Sometimes this peri- vesicular inflammation is extensive enough to involve the neighbouring pelvic peritoneum, thus setting up a localised process which has been known to have eventually become general and destroy life. In a percentage of these cases the inflammation does not penetrate along the canal beyond the vesicle, but oftentimes it does extend so as to involve the epididymis, but rarely, if ever, reaches the testicle. Vesiculitis ending in suppuration usually dis- charges itself by way of the ejaculatory ducts, but may form deep-seated abscesses in the pelvic tissues, which may open into the rectum, per- ineum, urethra, or bladder. Symptoms.—In acute seminal vesiculitis the symptoms presented are almost wholly those due directly to the inflammatory process. There is well-marked fever, often with shiver- ings or distinct rigors. In the early stages of