81 TRACHEA, AFFECTIONS OF THE Ulceration. — The varieties of tracheal ulceration are :— 1. Simple ulcers may form in the course of catarrhal tracheitis, and are caused by swelling and breaking down of the masses of lymphoid tissue. 2. Syphilitis.—In secondary syphilis mucous patches and superficial ulcers may form, but their presence will not usually be diagnosed. In tertiary syphilis deep ulcers may form, and may cause necrosis of the cartilaginous rings. These ulcers heal under potassium iodide, but in their healing contract, and so cause a serious amount of tracheal stenosis. The lower part of the trachea is most commonly thus affected. Symptoms. — The symptoms are those of chronic tracheitis. There is no sputum at first, but this afterwards becomes plentiful, muco- purulent, and streaked with blood. If situated high up the ulcers may be seen with tlie laryngoscope. The diagnosis generally depends on :—(a) the patient's history; [h) the presence of other lesions of a syphilitic nature; (c) the absence of tubercle bacilli from the sputum. Treatment.—Give potassium iodide and a linctus, e.g. morphinse hydrochlor. gr. syrup of balsam of tolu, and acid infusion of roses, aa 3ss. 3. Tuberculous.—These occur in advanced cases of pulmonary and laryngeal phthisis {v. articles on those subjects). Perforation.—This may arise :— 1. From bursting of an aneurysm. This is immediately fatal. 2. From bursting of an abscess into the trachea. This may cause death from asphyxia if the abscess is large. If this accident is not immediately fatal the treatment indicated is to provide a free external drain for the abscess. Tumours. — Tumours of the trachea are uncommon, many of them extremely so. Elsberg classifies them thus :— (Papilloma; most common. Fibroma. Enchondroma. Osteoma. Myxo-adenoma. 2. Malignant [ Carcinoma. ° I oarcoma. The benign tumours of the trachea have atten- tion called to them by the occurrence of per- manent difficulty of breathing, or of passing attacks of dyspepsia. For diagnosis see remarks on Tracheal Stenosis. Treatment.—If situated high up, a papilloma of the trachea may be removed by the endo- laryngeal route. If low down, tracheotomy must be done, and the tumour, if possible, re- moved through the tracheal wound. Tracheal carcinoma practically always occurs by extension from surrounding structures. Tracheal Obstruction. — Causes. — 1. Stric- VOL. X ture of the trachea from cicatricial narrowing of its wall, generally syphilitic. 2. A tumour within the trachea. 3. Pressure from without, e.g. by a thoracic tumour or aneurysm, by an abscess, by an en- larged thyroid gland, or by a dislocated clavicle. Symptoms.—There is an obvious obstruction to respiration, and stridor is present. Inspira- tion is more noisy and more prolonged than expiration. The lai-ynx moves up and down little, if at all, during respiration, while in laryngeal obstruction the larynx moves up and down freely. In extreme cases the lips have a bluish tinge, and the patient uses forcibly both the ordinary and the extraordinary muscles of respiration. By auscultation over the trachea a high-pitched, whistling sound is heard. The voice may not be affected at all. It may, how- ever, be faint and weak ; but this quality must be distinguished from the hoarseness generally present in cases of laryngeal obstruction. How- ever, in a case of tracheal obstruction the voice may be hoarse, as pressure on the trachea is often accompanied by pressure on one or both recurrent laryngeal nerves. These chronic symptoms may be associated with paroxysms of severe dyspnoea, which may be due to swelling of the tracheal mucous mem- brane, or to double abductor laryngeal paralysis due to pressure on both recurrent laryngeal nerves. Diagnosis.—A laryngoscopic examination must be made, the presence of laryngeal obstruction being thus excluded, and the presence of a tumour or stenosis high up in the trachea perhaps diagnosed. Next the thorax must be ex- amined for signs of the presence of an aneurysm and for signs suggestive of chronic mediastinitis. The neck, too, must be examined for evidence of aneurysm or tumour, and an oesophageal bougie should be passed. If the investigation of these parts has a negative result, then the obstruction must be in the trachea and due to contraction of its wall or an endo-laryngeal tumour. In the case of the former there will probably be a history of syphilis, while the latter may possibly be detected with the laryn- goscope. Treatment.—In many cases treatment is of no avail; in others a tumour pressing on the trachea has to be removed or an abscess evacu- ated ; while in a third class, e.g. tracheal stenosis, treatment is possible, though often unsatis- factory. For stricture high up in the trachea a low tracheotomy should be done. Stricture low down in the trachea has been treated by passing flexible tubes through tracheotomy wounds. Rupture.—Rupture of the trachea is very rare. Causation.—Direct violence applied over the trachea. Symptoms.—Obstruction to respiration, swell- 6