456 VESICUL^ SEMINALES should be employed, since that cut gives the operator the space necessary to make the removal most thorough and complete. Operative Procedures.—The operative pro- cedures which have been performed in connec- tion with the vesicles are (1) aspiration; (2) incision and drainage; and (3) extirpation. Aspiration is only applicable to certain cases of non-suppurative distension, and may thus be aseptically performed. A long stout needle is entered about an inch in front of the anus, and a little to one or other side of the middle line, and is pushed on through the perineal tissues guided by a finger in the rectum until it enters the cavity of the distended sac. It has been chiefly employed as a means of diagnosis. Incision and Drainage.—This operation is applicable to acute suppurations in and about a seminal vesicle, and is performed similarly to aspiration. A long narrow-bladed knife, with its edge directed outwards, is entered to one or other side of the middle line, an inch in front of the anus, and is guided by a finger in the rectum to the fluctuating area below. The blade of the instrument is gently rotated on its long axis to and fro, as it sinks into the tissues; when the abscess is "struck" the pus escapes along the side of the blade, and the knife may then be withdi'awn, enlarging the opening in a direction obliquely downwards and outwards as it is withdrawn. A drainage tube may be inserted on a probe or with Lister's sinus forceps to the bottom of the wound. Extirpation.—The perineum is shaved and prepared in the usual manner. A large gum elastic catheter is passed and retained in the urethra, and if the bladder is empty it should be filled with ten or twelve ounces of fluid. The patient is placed in lithotomy position, and having determined that the rectum is empty, a median incision is made from a point half an inch in front of the central tendon downwards to within half an inch of the anal margin. If the patient is stout and the perineum deep, the incision may be carried a quarter round the anus to either side, and about half an inch from it. The wound is deepened layer by layer, the rectum being pushed backwards, until the bulb, covered by its muscle, is seen at the front of the woimd and the anterior fibres of the levator ani muscle looping up the prostate. These fibres must be divided mesially, and the under surface of the prostate clearly made out. The rectum must still further be repressed by means of long, deep retractors, and the special layer of fascia and muscle passing backwards from the base of the prostate over the vesicles divided laterally downwards and outwards in the direc- tion of the vesicle. When the vesicle is clearly defined, it must be enucleated from its bed with the fingers, aided by a suitable blunt dissector if necessary. A finger introduced high into the rectum maybe utilised to press the oi'gan down into the wound, where it can be more easily grasped and drawn forward preparatory to being excised (Roux). Care must be taken not to damage the rectum in the early stages of the operation, nor the bladder or peritoneum during the enucleation of the vesicle. The cavity must be drained by iodoform gauze drainage, and the angles only of the outer wound closed by a suture. The wound gives rise to very little trouble, and heals rapidly if the whole disease has been cleanly removed. Nodules can be enucleated out of the prostate at the same time if necessary. This is the plan I have several times followed in the removal of diseased vesicles, and have not felt the want of any other procedure; but other methods have been described and must be referred to. Kraske's Method.—An incision commences near the posterior superior spine of the ileum on the right side, and extends along the border of the sacrum and coccyx to the middle line of the perineum below. All tissues are divided down to the bone, and the coccyx and sacrum up to the third foramen are taken away. The deeper part of the operation proceeds on the lines of the one just detailed. Rydygier modified Kraske's operation in the following manner :—An incision commences just behind the posterior superior spine of the ileum, extends obliquely downwards, along, and half an inch from the border of the sacrum, and on to the coccyx to the middle line, along which it is continued towards the rectum as far as may be necessary. A transverse cut is then made inward across the sacrum just below the third sacral foramen, and the exposed bone divided across with chisel and mallet. The lower triangular flap is then raised without difficulty, and bent back, thus affording much exposure of the pelvic contents. After the completion of the operation the flap of bone and skin is replaced. Von Dittel's Method.—A catheter is tied in, so that the urethra may be easily appreciated, and shielded from injury in operating. For like reasons the rectum is stuffed out with gauze, the ends of which are left hanging out so that the whole can be easily removed. The patient is placed lying on his belly, with his legs hanging down. A cut is then made ex- tending from the tip of the coccyx down on the middle line almost to the rectum. It then deviates to the right or left as the case may be, just avoiding the rectum, making a half-moon- shaped curve around that opening, and termi- nating in the middle of the perineum. In completing the dissection the rectum is pushed inward and to one side. If more room is needed the coccyx can be removed, and the lower end of the incision, instead of terminating in the middle of the perineum, can be continued laterally and upward to the tuber ischii, thus