VACCINATION 398 neglect. All that can fairly be asked is whether the last Act is helping the cause of vaccination or the reverse, and if by any further change it could be made to help it more 1 On the whole, we think the evidence is that the Act of 1898 is doing good, but that it might do much more if certain amendments were incorporated into it. During the year 1898, between the date of the passing of the Act and the 31st December, 230,147 children were exempted, by their parents appearing as "conscientious objectors." In 1899 this number was inci-eased by 32,357. In 1898 there was a large number of children who be- longed properly to earlier years; their parents had ignored or resisted the law, and when ex- emption was permitted they claimed it. If the exemptions in 1899 prove to be about the average, it will mean that something like 3-48 per cent of all children born get exemption through the direct action of their parents. But in the year 1899 it was not 3*48 per cent, but 27 9 per cent of the children born in the year that were not vaccinated, so that after deducting the conscientious objectors, there remained in addition nearly one-fourth of all children born who, from one reason or another, were not vaccinated, and whose patients did not claim exemption. Some of these children were perhaps vaccinated later, and many probably died before the legal age for vaccination. Still, the percentage who escaped by the conscience clause was small compared with the number who escaped through defects in the administra- tion of the Act. On the other hand, the per- centage of successful primary vaccinations at all ages in London, which in 1898 was only 47'7 per cent of the number of births, became in 1901 as high as 85*3 per cent, a result due mainly to the educating effect of the presence of smallpox. It is far more important to devise means of improving the administrative machine so that 20 or 25 per cent of all children born may not evade the law, than it is to concentrate attention on the comparatively small number of conscientious objectors. In large towns a good many children probably escape registration, and they would be likely to be unnoticed by the vaccination officers, and would not even be included in the list of defaulters. Alternatives to Vaccination.—The op- ponents of vaccination have tried to formulate an alternative policy, and they have done so in the two words " sanitation" and " isolation." But as to the value of these watchwords they are not unanimous. Dr. Creighton frankly admits that there is no evidence in support of the view that smallpox can be evaded or modified by sanitation. Others in his party throw " isolation " over, and speak of smallpox hospitals as "the culminating mistake in the social treat- ment of the disease." So that at this moment the majority of anti-vaccinators are opposed to one of their leaders about sanitation, and to another about isolation. The truth about sanitation is that there is not a scrap of real evidence that smallpox is even considerably influenced by defective sani- tary conditions, except that, if a house is very full of people, more will be exposed to the con- tagion than would be the case in a sparsely populated house. The disease itself is not affected, but more people are brought into con- tact with its infection. There is not a shred of evidence that it is in any sense a " filth disease " as to its origin. It is no more accurate to call it a " filth disease " than it would be to say so of whooping-cough. Whether insanitary condi- tions of any kind can increase the malignity of the type of smallpox once it has been imported, it is impossible to say. But even if this could be proved to be true of smallpox, as it is prob- ably true of scarlet fever and influenza, it would still be incorrect to say that the disease was due to the conditions which increased its viru- lence. If smallpox were bred of filth, it would be chronically present in half the villages and farmhouses in England, which it certainly is not. The other safeguard proposed in the place of vaccination is " isolation," or the separation of the sick from the healtliy. Isolation aided by vaccination is no doubt of great value, but it could not be employed in an unvaccinated community. Smallpox patients cannot wait upon themselves; and if the people round them in the hospital were not protected by vaccina- tion and revaccination, the disease would spread in the hospital exactly as it spreads outside. The whole value of taking patients out of their homes lies in the power of surrounding them with attendants who are protected by vaccina- tion, and thus stopping the infection from spreading. There is very little treatment pos- sible in bad cases of smallpox, and for the patient's own sake the long journey to the hospital-ship or shelter would be much better avoided. The one advantage is that at the ship it is possible to prevent contact with unvaccinated people. Another point to be considered in con- nection with any large scheme of isolation is its cost. London is rich, and it can afford to do everything well, but the cost of transporting 70 or 80 patients a day to the ships, and of keeping 1400 or 1500 there, with the necessary service for the living, the dying, and the dead, must be enormous. The recent epidemic in London (March 1902) was estimated as having cost £10,000 per week. Revaccination would have prevented all this waste, and also an untold amount of suffering. Amendments wanted in the Vaccination Act of 1898.—As Dr. Bond has well said, " What has been chiefly wanted to make the vaccination mills grind is motive power. That power can only come from two sources—the