45 TONSILS, DISEASES OF must be regarded as diphtheria and treated as such. If it be a case of lacunar tonsillitis the isolation will have minimised the risk of other members of the household becoming infected. Acute ulcerative tonsillitis would be distin- guished from a chancre of the tonsil by the combined absence of stony hardness of the tonsil and enlarged cervical glands : from ter- tiary ulceration by the history and effect of antisyphilitic treatment. Treatment.—In all forms of tonsillitis it is well to commence treatment with an efficient aperient. There are few more suitable for this purpose than calomel followed by a saline draught. In lacunar tonsillitis with high tem- perature, salicylate of soda in twelve-grain doses every four to six hours, until its physiological effects are produced, will usually give good results in relieving pain and lowering tempera- ture. It may be combined with a diaphoretic, e.g. acetate of ammonia. Fifteen grains of benzoate of soda every two hours is said to give excellent results after some six doses have been taken. Drachm doses of the ammoniated tincture of guaiacum, given in hot milk every two hours until purging is produced, is especially useful in lacunar and parenchymatous tonsillitis. It may also be prescribed in five-grain doses of the powder. Drop doses of aconite tincture given every hour is a favourite remedy for acute pharyngeal inflammations in children. With regard to local remedies, considerable relief may be afforded in lacunar tonsillitis by spraying the inflamed tonsils with a hot alkaline solution flavoured with listerine; in other cases by painting the tonsil with equal parts of guaiacol and olive oil. Others recommend the sucking of ice-pills, or the frequent application by means of a brush of menthol dissolved in liquid paraffin (gr. xv. ad 3j.)- Swallowing of food is rendered easier by a preliminary painting of the tonsil with cocaine (gr. xv. ad while during the act of deglutition pain is greatly minimised by firm pressure externally just in front of the tragus of the ear. Gai'gles are generally useless because of the pain they cause, but sedative pastilles, e.g. borax and chlorate of potash, menthol, cocaine and borax, are some- times useful. Sips of sweetened lemon-juice will enable the patient to cleanse the throat of the sticky exudation so abundant in many cases of tonsillitis. Hot external applications occa- sionally give relief, but a cold Leiter's coil applied early in the disease will do much to alleviate subsequent suffering by reducing the inflammation. In parenchymatous or peritonsillar inflamma- tion the tonsil should not be punctured unless it be fairly certain that pus is present, but when that is the case the operation should not be delayed for a moment. The puncture should be made towards the upper and outer side of the tonsil over the region of the svipratonsillar fossa. A partially sheathed bistoury should be passed in for at least half an inch, and then withdrawn down- wards and inwards so as to enlarge the aperture of entry. If pus does not follow the withdrawal of the knife a pair of Lister's sinus forceps should be passed into the puncture and opened in one or two directions, for in this way the abscess may often be discovered and relieved. After an acute attack of tonsillitis the patient should be put on a tonic plan of treatment, and should seek change in the country or seaside. When he has quite recovered his health the tonsils should be removed if they are enlarged. An acutely inflamed tonsil should never be removed unless it is giving rise to serious difii- culty of respiration. I. Chronic Inflammation of the Tonsils— Enlarged Tonsils Etiology. — While in many instances the morbid enlai'gement of the tonsils during the early years of life seems to occur without any definite reason, so that one is driven to ascribe such hypertrophy to some congenital influence, yet it is no less a well-established observation that in other cases the enlargement is due either to repeated attacks of inflammation in the tonsil, or dates from an attack of one of the acute specific diseases. In yet other instances it may be one of the numerous manifestations of the strumous diathesis. Enlarged tonsils usually make their appearance before the age of puberty and tend to shrink after that period of life has been passed. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology. — Three varieties of chronically inflamed tonsils are most frequently met with. 1. Chronic lacunar tonsillitis, in which the tonsils are generally somewhat enlarged and in which the lacunae are filled with yellow, evil- smelling, cheesy accumulations consisting of epithelium scales, the debris of inflammatory exudation, and a variety of septic organisms. Such accumulations may often be squeezed out of the lacunae or from the supratonsillar fossa. In certain cases such caseous plugs may calcify and produce tonsillar calculi, or "tonsilloliths." In rarer instances the lacunar inflammation may lead to the production of epithelial out- growths, or "papillomata" of the tonsil. Should the mouth of a lacuna become blocked, a chronic tonsillar abscess, or the formation of a cyst, may result. The surface of a tonsil subject to chronic lacunar inflammation is often scarred and presents a trabeculated appearance; in long- standing cases of the disease the lymphoid tissue of the follicles may have almost entirely disappeared, having given place to epithelial proliferation of the lacunae and general fibrotic overgrowth.