UTERUS, INFLAMMATIONS OF THE 341 inflammation. An acute general inflammation of the uterus, which probably starts from the endometrium, is occasionally met with during the progress of the exanthematous fevers, e.g. scarlatina and typhoid. Sudden suppression of the menstrual flow from chill or excitement is said to cause it, but this is doubtful. Formerly, when strong caustics were so much in vogue in treatment of uterine disease, acute inflam- mation not infrequently followed their use. Symptoms.—The disease is generally ushered in by a rigor followed by fever. The tempera- ture may range from 102°-105°, and there may be several chills in the course of the twenty- four hours. The pulse is rapid, 110-120. Locally, there is more or less acute pain in the pelvis, with great tenderness on palpation over the fundus uteri. There may be great rectal and vesical tenesmus. In septic puerperal cases the lochial discharge is generally foetid and greatly diminished in quantity. In non- puerperal cases the uterine discharge is at first serous and then muco-puriilent. In rare instances it may be sanguinolent from the commencement. Physical Signs.—Vaginal examination reveals a hot, moist vagina, the cervix swollen, the os patulous, and the uterus enlarged, softened, and very tender. These signs, taken in con- junction with the acute character of the symp- toms and the history of the case, leave no doubt as to the diagnosis. The prognosis in puerperal cases is of course very grave. The same is true in cases following gonorrhoea and operative interference, though here there is not the same tendency for the inflammation to become general or for a general infection to occur. Prophylaxis.—The causes of acute inflamma- tion which have been given indicate how the disease in the great majority of cases may be prevented, viz. by the careful use of antiseptics during labour and in all gynecological opera- tions and manipulations. During menstruation women should avoid exposure to cold and too great physical exertion. Treatment.—The treatment of acute septic inflammation of the uterus is considered under the head of " Puerperal Fever," and need not therefore be referred to here, for whether puerperal or non-puerperal the disease is to be combated by the same measures, though, as we have stated, with a greater hope of success in the non-puerperal cases. In the less acute form of acute inflammation, non-septic in origin, the patient must be kept absolutely at rest. Hot fomentations or an ice-bag where the temperature is very high, over the lower abdomen, give great relief to the pain. Hot vaginal douches act in the same way, and tend to relieve the congestion and allay the inflammation. If the pain is very severe morphia may be necessary, when it is best administered in the form of a suppository. To avoid any straining the bowels should be moved by an enema each morning, and for the same reason the catheter should be passed to draw oif the urine. Stimulants as a rule are not indicated or necessary in the non-septic cases. The acute symptoms as a rule pass off within ten days, but there is a great liability for the disease to remain for a long time in a chronic form, so that our prognosis as to complete recovery should always be guarded. Chronic Metritis.—Chronic metritis is a term applied to a morbid condition of the uterus, which has been described by different authors under various terms, viz., chronic parenchy- matous inflammation (Scanzoni); areolar hyper- plasia (Thomas); irritable uterus (Hodge and Gooch); diff"use interstitial metritis (Noeg- gerath); subinvolution (Sir J. Y. Simpson); hyperplasia of the fibro-muscular tissue of the uterus (Virchow), etc. Clinically, it is applied to a uterus which is " enlarged, painful, and tender" (Herman), and is one of the most common, if not the most common, diseases of the female sexual organs. The essential pathological change in chronic metritis is a great increase in the connective tissue elements, not localised as in fibrous tumours, but difl'used through the whole organ. This may be the result of a previous acute inflammation, but only very rarely is this so. In the great majority of cases it is the result only of long-standing congestion, and is thus analogous to the fibroid changes produced in other organs under similar conditions, e.g. cirrhosis of the liver. Subinvolution of the uterus and chronic metritis are by some authorities considered to be the same pathological condition, but while subinvolution is undoubtedly a very frequent cause, and in many cases the starting-point of the irritable, painful uterus which we designate under the term chronic metritis, the two morbid conditions are, we believe, quite distinct. Subinvolution may be present to a very con- siderable degree, and cause no symptoms except an increase in the amount of the menstrual discharge. Chronic metritis is always associated with much pelvic pain, dysmenorrhoea, and generally by ill-health, in addition to menorrhagia. It may also occur in women who have never borne children. Etiology.—Chronic metritis may sometimes, as has been stated, be but the chronic stage or result of an antecedent acute inflammation of the fibrous tissue of the uterus. In but a very small proportion of the cases, however, where the disease is present will we be able to get a history of any acute symptoms occurring much more frequently in parous than in nulliparous women; we will find very often that its onset