TUMOURS, INOPERABLE, TREATMENT OF 166 cases, viz. blood-poisoning or septicsemia. How to obviate this will best be considered under that subject. Septiccemia.-—This is seldom seen in inoper- able tumours; the form usually present arises from the absorption of the products of de- composition present in the ulcerated surface (sapnemia). Sometimes it is associated with special organs, as in the septic pyelitis of the kidney, so frequently present in advanced cancerous disease of the uterus. It is really represented by the so-called cachexia of malig- nant disease. It must be prevented by the use of weak solutions of the ordinary anti- septics, such as creolin, boracic acid, carbolic acid, sanitas, and peroxide of liydrogen. Where there is much superficial sloughing, charcoal poultices, or dressings of wet boracic lint covered with jaconet, keep down the odour and set up a healthier action in the growth. Of the dry dressings the most suitable are ones impregnated with an antiseptic and of an absorbent character. Hartmann's wood-wool wadding, boric and salicylic wool, Martindale's moss, carbolised tow, and gamgee tissue are all excellent applications. They must be fre- quently changed, and are often best held in position by the triangular bandage. In the removal of dressings great gentleness should be used, and they should be well wetted if adherent, so as not to set up bleeding. In inoperable cancer of the uterus vaginal plugs soaked in a b per cent glycerine solution of ichthyol have a cleansing and deodorising power, and they may be introduced every second day, a warm weak creolin douche being given after their removal. Sometimes curetting may be added to the use of the plugs. In some of these distressing uterine cancer cases, where the disease has eroded the bladder and a vesico- vaginal fistula exists, great comfort is derived and bed-sores prevented by the use of a specially made rubber bed-pan on which the patient constantly lies. At the Cancer Hospital it has been found of the greatest use. By keeping the bed dry it lessens the tendency to bed-sores, and it saves freqiient moving of the patient. If necessary it may contain some antiseptic, such as sanitas, and thus it keeps down any odour in the discharges. Cases of inoperable cancer of the mouth and tongue are specially difficult to manage, and are often very offensive. The liquid food necessary should be given by means of a drinking-cup with a piece of tubing attached and placed far back in the fauces. Any loose teeth should be extracted, and the mouth should be syringed out and washed out constantly with Listerine or lotions containing eucalyptus. This latter seems the most efficient deodoriser in these cases. If the case is very offensive a formaline lamp may be burnt in the room, care being taken not to render the air too irritat- ing. Where the flow of saliva is very great. belladonna as atropia may be administered. Space does not allow of individual cases being further dealt with, but to all of them the prin- ciples of cleanliness, prevention of decomposi- tion, and avoidance of irritation must be applied, and when emaciation sets in the prevention of bed-sores by the use of water-beds and all the recognised local measures must be kept in view. Pain.—This, together with a certain amount of mental depression, is more or less present in all cases of inoperable growths, but the pain is not always of that agonising character that popular fancy associates with cancer, and its injudicious management is, I am sure, responsible for much additional distress in many of these cases. The too early and indiscriminate use of narcotics is not to be followed. Pain and suffering must be relieved, but this may be done by analgesics without recourse to morphia, a drug which not only upsets the digestive organs, leading to emaciation and ansemia, but has the very great drawback of destroying the patient's self-control, so that when once begun it has to be constantly renewed to meet the restless, clamouring crav- ing for it that is set up. These remarks do not apply to the systematic administration of opium in inoperable cancer, as advocated therapeuti- cally by Dr. Snow, not with the object of killing pain, but of checking the growth of the cancer cells. They refer more to the hypodermic injections of morphia resorted to in a routine manner. Of the analgesics that may be em- ployed my preference is for phenacetine, admin- istered in 10-20 gr. doses, to relieve peripheral neiiritis and restlessness, either occasionally or regularly during the day and night. It has a remarkable effect in soothing the general un- easiness and mental depression present in these cases. During the daytime it usually suffices, but sometimes it has to be replaced at night by trional, bromidia, nepenthe, or morphia hypo- dermically, so as to ensure a quiet night. This, however, is the exception, and it occurs more towards the close of a case. From considerable experience at the Glasgow Cancer Hospital I am satisfied that observance of the above sug- gestions is of importance to the patient, and renders easier the general management of the case. In some cases neurotomy may be of service, as of the lingual nerve in cancer of tongue. Stricture of Vital Parts.—It is in connection with growths of the oesophagus, pylorus, and rectum that this factor comes into play. Every case must be judged on its own merits, but there are few cases of oesophageal disease where gastrostomy is called for. In the majority of them the narrowing may be met by the judicious use of bougies or Symond's tubes, combined with a licpiid diet. In pyloric obstruction gastro- enterostomy may advantageously be resorted to, while in cases of rectal disease a left iliac colos- tomy prolongs life, relieves distressing symp-