TUMOURS 161 arises from a surface covered with squamous epithelial cells, it is called squamous-celled cancer, or, more particularly by British writers, epithelioma. The microscopic structure of a cancer is very simple, for it consists of columns of cells, so that when these columns are cut at right angles the section has the appearance of a number of alveolar spaces filled with epithelium. The walls of these alveoli consist of fibrous tissue of varying degrees of density in different species of cancer, and in this tissue the blood and lymph vessels ramify. These cell-columns are not always simple but branch and ramify in different directions, producing in some sections very com- plicated appearances. The softness or hardness of a cancer depends in a large measure on the amount of cells as well as on the density of the fibrous tissue composing the septa. The cells in the columns take their characters from the cells in which the cancer arose, and so constantly do they preserve the type of the cells and so frequently mimic the architecture of the gland in which the cancer is situated, that an experi- enced histologist can often determine the source of the carcinoma from a study of its microscopic features. Although cancer may arise in any epithelial- covered surface or secreting gland it is exceed- ingly common in some and very rare in others. Thus the three commonest situations are the mammary gland, the stomach, and the neck of the uterus; it is rare as a primary tumour in the liver, the thyroid gland, and the kidney, and it is a significant fact that it is more prone to arise in glandular organs which have been injured, or are the seat of chronic disease, than in those that are healthy; this is borne out especially in the case of cancer arising in the neck of the uterus, for this disease is almost exclusively confined to women who have been pregnant, and in the thyroid gland, for cancer of this gland is much more frequent in countries where goitre is endemic. A striking feature of cancer is the fact that it is not circumscribed, and it is not possible in naked-eye examination to define the limits between the tumour and the surrounding tissue: this indefiniteness is more obvious when in the course of an operation the surgeon cuts into it, and when the parts are subjected to microscopic scrutiny it is difficult to determine with accuracy the limits of the cancerous territory. It is this illimitation which constitutes one of the greatest difficulties in dealing with cancer surgically, and has led surgeons to advocate the complete extirpation of cancerous organs when- ever possible with the hope of eradicating the disease. When cancer extends beyond the organ in which it arises, the cancerous elements will quickly involve, or implicate, adjacent organs, whether they consist of skin, fat, muscle, or bone. This tendency to implicate neighbour- VOL. X ing organs is a grave feature of this disease, and is a common cause of death, as well as being a bar to efficient operative efforts. A very dangerous character of cancer is the frequency with which it infects lymph glands. All epithelial structures are rich in lymphatics, and these convey the cancer elements to the lymph glands associated with the cancerous part; and such infected lymph glands may form a tumour far exceeding in size the primary cancer. It is a difficult matter to determine in a given case the extent to which the lymph glands have been infected, and this adds to the uncertainty in estimating the value of surgical interfei'ence. Cancers are exceptionally prone to dissemi- nate, and secondary growths may make their appearance in any organ or tissue and, not in- frequently, in bone. The cancerous particles that give rise to these secondary nodules are transported by lymph and blood-vessels, and when these minute cancer-emboli are lodged in suitable situations they multiply and give rise to nodules which in their histologic features exactly resemble the parent tumour. The amount of dissemination varies greatly: in some cases secondary growths may be only found in the liver or lung, yet in another and apparently identical case, so far as the structure and situation of the tumour are concerned, secondary knots appear in almost every organ, including the skeleton. The vitality and power of independent growth possessed byminute detached portions of cancer is extremely remarkable. These minute epithelial emigrants not only live and grow but they re- produce the peculiarity of the primary tumour. It is astonishing to find a secondary mass of cancer in the humerus with all the characters of the glands of the rectum ; nodules on the lungs exactly reproducing that peculiar form of hepatic cancer that arises in the biliary ducts ; or the familiar closed follicles of the thyroid gland reproduced in the spinous process of a vertebra; or a nodule with the structure of a mammary cancer growing in the choroid coat of the eye. This great power of independent growth possessed by cancerous epithelium is a very dangerous feature, and it occasionally happens that in the course of operations cancerous ele- ments are spread about the wound and give rise to a form of rapid local recurrence which acceler- ates the fatal course of the disease. The Cause of Cancer.—There are many facts which indicate that cancer is induced by micro- parasites, for those glands which are direct com- munications with the air or intestinal gases are most prone to become cancerous, e.g. the mamma, rectum, and stomach; whereas cancer of the thyroid and prostate is unusual. The great frequency of cancer in the cervical endometrium, in comparison with its infrequency 11