41 TONGUE foramen ctecum at the base of the tongue—the thyro-glossal tract. The solid tumours have the same structure as the thyroid gland, and they may grow to a considerable size. In some cases the thyroid tissue appears to be physio- logically active, as the removal of the growth has been followed by symptoms of myxoedema. The cysts are characterised by being lined with ciliated epithelium, and having thyroid tissue in their walls. These tumours may be met with at any age; in some cases they are con- genital. They are usually situated at the base of the tongue, but have laeen met with in the region of the hyoid bone. As seen from the mouth they are of a bluish brown or dark red colour. As the walls of the cysts are very vascular they are liable to bleed frequently. The blood may fill the cyst, causing it to enlarge suddenly, or may escape into the mouth. The frequent variations in size of the swelling and the repeated attacks of bleeding help to distin- guish thyro-glossal cysts from other swellings at the base of the tongue. The growth may attain sufficient dimensions to interfere with speech or swallowing, in which case it should be removed. When not causing inconvenience it is best left alone. Malformations of the Tongue Complete or partial absence of the tongue, due to arrested development of the tuberculum impar, is extremely rare. Occasionally the fore part of the tongue is bifid. The split may merely amount to a notch at the tip of the tongue, or it may extend for a considerable distance into the substance of the organ. This deformity may be associated with other congenital malformations of the face and jaws. The function of the organ is not seriously interfered with, and the operation of paring and uniting the edges of the cleft is only called for to remove the disfigurement. Congenital tongue-tie or ankyloglossia is a con- dition in which the tip of the tongue is bound down to the floor of the mouth by an abnor- mally short and narrow frenum, or by folds of mucous membrane on each side of the frenum. This deformity is extremely rare. It is very common, however, for parents to blame a sup- posed " tongue-tie" when a child is slow to begin to speak, or when he speaks indistinctly or stammers, and surgeons are frequently re- quested to divide the frenum under such cir- cumstances. In the vast majority of cases an examination shows that there is nothing wrong with the frenum, and that the child is not tongue-tied. This fact is emphasised because haemorrhage, septic complications, deforming cicatricial contractions, and other untoward effects have followed the needless division of the frenum. In the rare cases of true tongue-tie the tongue cannot be protruded between the teeth. The condition usually improves as the child grows older. If it persists and interferes with the functions of the tongue it is then necessary to divide the shortened structures close to the symphysis, and towards the floor of the mouth, and to prevent the cut surfaces from reunit- ing by frequently packing with gauze, or by gently stretching the parts with the tip of the finger. Excessive length of the frenum is occasionally met with, and in young children may allow of the tongue falling back into the throat and causing sudden suffocative attacks, which may prove fatal — so-called " tongue-swallowing." In some cases the frenum is so long and slack that the patient is able voluntarily to fold the tongue back behind the soft palate. Macroglossia is the name applied to a variety of conditions in which the tongue becomes unduly large. The typical form—lymphangio- matous macroglossia—is due to a dilatation of the lymphatic spaces of the tongue. It is often congenital, and may affect the whole or only a part of the tongue. The enlargement may be progressive from the first, or it may remain stationary for years, and then begin to increase somewhat suddenly—it may be after an injury or as the result of some inflammatory condition. At first the tongue is slightly swollen and is very sensitive to contact with hot or irritating food. Blisters are liable to form on the surface and burst, giving exit to a clear serous fluid. Recurrent attacks of acute glossitis, accom- panied by hfemorrhage into the substance of the tongue, and followed by a deposit of fibrous tissue, lead to permanent enlargement and hardening of the organ. The tongue may eventually become too large for the mouth and remain permanently protruded. The patient has then difficulty in taking food and in breath- ing. The protruded portion becomes dry and cracked, swallowing and speech are interfered with, and there is great pain and tenderness. The course of the disease is very chronic and may last for years. In long-standing cases the lower jaw may become altered in shape, and the lower lip everted and thickened. The treatment consists in removing a wedge- shaped portion of the tongue, including as much as possible of the lymphangiomatous tissue. The opei'ation should be done as soon as the condition is recognised. It is not attended with serious haemorrhage. In cretins, in certain imbeciles, and in the subjects of general hemihypertrophy, the tongue is frequently hypertrophied in whole or in part —miiscular macroglossia. Atrophy of the tongue is rare as a congenital condition. Hemiatrophy occurs in various dis- eases of the central nervous system, as well as after injuries and diseases implicating the hypoglossal nerve.