TROPICS, THE UNCLASSED FEVERS OF THE 111 was believed to be due to treatment. Writing in 1886, Chevers {Diseases of India, p. 216) says :— "Assuredly he who in Bengal proper treats all cases of ordinary fever (excluding jungle fever, enteric, and the exanthemata) with quinine, as soon as perspiration shows itself after the first paroxysm, will find that febricula is a very ephemeral disease indeed, and that his experi- ence of common continued fever is extremely small. I am confident that these three diseases, or, to speak more accurately with Dr. Morehead, these three degrees of the same malady, are in Lower Bengal the most usual types in which intermittent fever first attacks the robust, full- blooded, and perhaps free-living European who arrives there during the hot weather." The fallacy incorporated in these remai'ks is that ephemeral fever, febricula, and simple continued fevers, are fevers of a single paroxysm of a few hours' or days' duration, and that there is no tendency to recurrence of the paroxysm whether they are treated with quinine or not. If they show any tendency to a repetition of the paroxysm this must be taken as evidence that they are of a different type, and due to malarial infection, when quinine in full doses becomes the appropriate treatment; but I have treated many hundreds of such cases without the ex- hibition of a single grain of quinine, and without their showing any tendency to the manifesta- tion of the phenomena of the life-cycle of the malarial parasite. This is the commonest type of fever, not only in Lower Bengal, but also in Burma, and it is probably so equally in other parts of India. That these fevers do not take the first place in the returns of the Government of India is due to two circumstances: first, because cases of fever of such short duration are not necessarily admitted to hospital; and, secondly, because there is a strong tendency, especially in the native army and jails—such is the result of the teaching of which I complain—to return all cases of mild fever of short duration as "ague." These returns indeed do not show the existence of ephemeral fever or febricula at all, the com- monest forms of fever with which the practitioner in civil life has to deal. Thus in the Alipore jail in 1899 the admission-rate for "simple continued fever" (probably including all the milder expressions of single paroxysm fevers) was 373-7 per 1000 of population, against 74 per 1000 for "intermittent" fever; whereas in the Presidency jail, a mile distant, the returns would indicate 2-5 and 299-3 per 1000 respec- tively. The diff"erence between the returns of these neighbouring institutions is indicative of the personal element in classification, and it must be admitted that such returns are value- less as an index to the relative prevalence of these mild fevers of a single paroxysm, and true malarial fevers. This can only be arrived at by a systematic examination of the blood. These three fevers, or rather these three degrees of the same fever, differ not only in duration, but in intensity. When the duration is only a few hours, and the intensity is slight, it is called " ephemeral" fever ; when it lasts some forty-eight hours it is spoken of as " febri- cula "; and when its continuance is longer, from three to eight or ten days, when the tempera- tures usually vary from 102° F. in the morning to 103° to 104" in the evening, it rises to the dignity of " simple continued fever." Quinine in full doses has no appreciable effect either on their duration or course. They subside spon- taneously by lysis, and in the warm, humid climate of Lower Bengal are often accompanied by much visible perspiration throughout their course, which is absent in the hot, dry atmo- sphere of other parts of India where evaporation from the surface is active. The occurrence of such perspiration does not, however, as in true malarial fevers, mark the advent of any terminal " sweating stage." When the intensity is greater, and the tem- peratures reach 107° to 109°, other phenomena, characteristic of hyperpyrexia, intervene, of which a flxished face, rapid breathing and pulse, intensely hot, generally dry skin, injection of the conjunctiva, delirium, convulsions, and coma are the most constant. This is the " thermic fever," "heat apoplexy," or "insolation " of syste- matic writers. It differs from the other three only in intensity, and the prodromal symptoms, which have been insisted upon as an indication of some specific infection—the disinclination for exertion, the headache, anorexia, nausea, and hot, dry skin, etc., which precede the distinctive hyperpyrexia, are precisely those of the milder forms, and are preliminary to the final, often sudden, giving way of the thermic control, of which the post-mortem appearances, the pul- monary and cerebral congestion, and heart- failure are the natural expression. There is no essential difference between the phenomena of " febricula " and " heat apoplexy." It is merely one of degree. With regard to the causation of this class of fevers the influence of climatic conditions cannot be denied. They require for their prevalence a high maximum daily temperature and an un- clouded sky—solar traumatism being evidently the most potent factor—or an atmosphere laden with moisture. To demonstrate the effect of these conditions it is only necessary to " plot out" the admission-rate per 1000 for each month of the year for "simple continued fever," in two such different climates as those of Luck- now and Rangoon (making every allowance for errors in nomenclature). The months of highest maximum temperature in Lucknow are March, April, May, and June. These are also the months of highest admission- rate for "simple continued fever." In June, with the advent of cloudy weather preceding