323 UTERUS, MALFORMATIONS OF THE the fundus. But on section a partition is seen extending from the fundus to the os externum or even to the vaginal orifice (Fig. 3, 1 a). In the variety known as uterus subseptus (Fig. 3, 1 b) the septum reaches only to the os internum, so that the body of the uterus is double, whilst the cervix and vagina are single. Uterus bicornis (Fig. 3).—In this case ex- ternal union takes place in the lower part of the uterine body and cervix, but is wanting at the fundus, so that externally this portion of Fig. 3.—1 a, Uterus septus ; 2 a, uterus bicornis ; 1 b, uterus subseptus; 2 b, uterus bicornis unicoUis; 3, uterus uni- cornis ; 4, uterus didelphys. the uterus appears as tw^o horns. The septum extends throughout the cervix, which is also double, and may reach tlie vaginal orifice (Fig. 3, 2 a). The demarcation between uterine horn and Fallopian tube is indicated by the insertion of the round ligament. Uterus Bicornis UnicoUis.—This is a variety of the preceding type, and cannot be distin- guished from it externally. The septum reaches only to the os internum, so that the cervix and vagina are normal (Fig. 3, 2 b). A vaginal examination will, of course, enable one to dis- tinguish between a uterus bicornis and a uterus bicornis unicoUis, or between a uterus septus and a uterus subseptus. Uterus unicornis, already referred to, is of course also a variety of the uterus bicornis, in which one horn has remained undeveloped (Fig. 3 (3)). It is therefore a combination of the two main types of malformation which we have indicated, namely, partial arrest of development with persistence of a septum. Uterus Didelphys (Figs. 3 (4) and 4).—In this form the two halves of the uterus remain quite distinct, and can be moved independently of one another. The vagina is always double, the two halves being united by connective tissue, and a loose bridge of connective tissue usually extends between the two cervices. A well- marked fold of peritoneum passes between the two uteri from the back of the bladder to the front of the rectum. Each half of the uterus has its own Fallopian tube and ovary, and the round ligament shows where uterus ends and tube begins. One-half of the uterus may be considerably displaced, so that it comes to lie in front of the other. (6) Atresia of the Genital Canal.—Congenital atresia only affects the vagina. Clinically atresia of the OS externum or internum is also found, but it is secondary. We shall, however, con- sider all kinds of atresia when discussing the clinical significance of malformations. Vaginal atresia is of various grades. In the simplest form a thin septum is present, occlud- ing the vaginal orifice. This was formerly called atresia of the hymen ; but the septum is vaginal, and on its external surface the hymen is found adherent. For it must be remembered that the hymen is not a complete diaphragm at any stage of its development; it arises as a mem- branous fold from the margins of the urogenital sinus. The vagina may altogether fail to reach the surface, so that its lower third, or half, or even the whole of it may be absent. There is nearly always, however, some portion of it unoccluded just below the cervix. When the lower two- thirds are wanting, the apex of the upper patent portion is connected with the vestibule by a fibrous cord; and this may fail to elongate as the pelvis grows, with the result that the vesti- bule is drawn in so as to form a cul-de-sac re- sembling the lower part of the vagina. It is very doubtful if a portion of true vagina is ever present externally when the middle or upper part is wanting ; in other words, it is doubtful if the Miillei-ian duct persists at its lowest part and opens into the vestibule whilst a portion higher up is suppressed. Atresia of the Fallopian tubes has been referred to; it is not a true congenital {i.e. develop- mental) atresia, since it is the result of disease in the foetus. In all forms of persistent septa, whether longi- tudinal or transverse, the patient is otherwise