124 TUBERCULOSIS Subcultures may be made on blood-serum or on glycerine agar, a medium which, curiously enough, cannot be used for separating the bacillus direct from lesions. Glycerine beef-broth, glycerinated potato, i.e. slices of potato over which 5 per cent solution of glycerine in water has been smeared, and other glycerinated media, have been used for continuing the subcultures. Hesse {Zeitsch. f. Hyg. und InfectionsJcrankh., Bd. xxxi.) has recommended a medium contain- ing a soluble albumin preparation known in commerce as " Nahrstoff Heyden," made up as follows: NiihrstofF Heyden, 5 gm.; common salt, 5 gm.; glycerine, 30 gm.; agai"-agar, 10 gm.; normal soda solution, 5 gm.; distilled water, 1000 c.c. This is at once seen to corre- spond to glycerine agar, with Nahrstoff Heyden substituted for beef-broth. Menzi {id., Bd. xxxix.), Jochmann, and others, have also worked extensively with this medium, and come to the conclusion that it is a very good one for separ- ating the bacillus, particularly from sputum. If tubercle bacilli are plentiful in the sediment from urine, they can also be readily separated. Microscopic growths are obtained in one to three days- It is, however, inferior to glycerine agar as a medium for subculturing the organism. Kiihne, Proskauer, and Beck found that luxuriant growths could be obtained in proteid- free media. The two last have shown that the bacillus will grow in a medium consisting of magnesium citrate, ammonium sulphate, glycerine and mannite, or even in one con- taining only commercial ammonium carbonate, 0"35 per cent; acid potassium phosphate, 0'15 per cent; magnesium sulphate, 0'25 per cent; and glycerine, 1"5 per cent. The glycerine, however, cannot in any medium be replaced by bodies allied to it chemically. De Schweinitz and Dorset, from chemical analysis of cultures, drew attention to the large amount of phosphoric acid present in the ash, and to the fact that this was the only acid present. They also stated that an acid reaction of the culture medium appeared to be favour- able to the growth of the tubercle bacillus, and subsequently reported that addition of acid phosphate of potassium and the omission of sodium chloride gave a medium upon which development took place very rapidly (cp. Pros- kauer and Beck's medium). The medium they now used is composed as follows {American Medicine, 19th July 1902, p. 93):—" Chopped meat, one part; distilled water, two parts, heated at 45° to 60° C. for three hours, strained, boiled, filtered, and then 1 per cent peptone and \ per cent acid potassiiun phosphate added. This solution is neutralised with sodium hydrate, boiled for one hour, 7 per cent glycerine added, and filtered ; acidity equal to about 10 c.c. N/10 sodium hydrate required to neutralise 100 c.c. beef-broth, phenolphthalein being used as in- dicator." They report that this medium is eminently satisfactory, not only in securing a rapidity of growth, but also apparently in keeping up the virulence of the organism. Chemistry and Chemical Products.—Little need be detailed here of the actual chemical composition of the tubercle bacillus. In addi- tion to the fat, fatty acids, and wax already referred to, it contains a nucleic acid which is credited by Behring with possessing to a high degree the specific properties of Koch's tuber- culin. The paper of de Schweinitz and Dorset, just referred to, may be consulted on this point. It is much more important to consider the chemical substances produced by it to which the pathogenetic actions are due. The most important of these are tuberculin and other bodies separated from crude tuberculin, some highly toxic, some believed to be directly curative. Tuberculin was separated by R. Koch. It is prepared by growing the bacilli for six to eight weeks in a slightly alkaline veal-broth containing 1 per cent of peptone and 4 to 5 per cent of glycerine. The whole is then evaporated to a tenth of its bulk on a water-bath, which kills the bacilli, and this fluid constitutes crude tuberculin. It con- tains 40 to 50 per cent of glycerine, which pre- vents the growth of putrefactive organisms. What would appear to be a specific action is shown by the fact that injection of it produces in tuberculous animals a considerable rise of temperature, whereas after injection into healthy animals the reaction is not so great. It was introduced by Koch as a curative agent, and accepted at the moment by the world as a " gift from the gods." Koch's theory of its action, founded upon experimental results in guinea- pigs, was that the tubercle bacillus secretes a substance having a necrotic action on the tissues, that when tuberculin is injected into a tuber- culous patient, the proportion round a tuber- culous focus becomes suddenly increased, great reaction takes place with necrosis and separation of the material containing dead and living tubercle bacilli. Virchow showed that from this very process its employment was attended with the greatest danger, as it led in many cases, by the freeing of bacilli formerly imprisoned in fibrous nodules, to dissemination of the disease. It is still used to produce this effect in cases of lupus, but the resulting ulcer takes long to heal up. Tuberculin is chiefly used now in the diag- nosis of the disease in cattle, only a small per- centage of cases failing to react, and it is also used, chiefly on the Continent, with great pre- cautions in the diagnosis of early tuberculosis in man. In this country, however, there is still a strong prejudice against its employment in man. Hunter stated {Brit. Med. Jour. 1891) that tuberculin consists chiefly of (1) albumoses, (2)