541 WOUNDS hagen ; it should of course be sterilised by heat. But the far safer plan is to promptly change the dressings that are soaked through. Lastly, to secure the other materials in position, and to exert through them the amount of pressure suitable for the particular case, bandages are applied. Domette is a satisfactory material for ordinary purposes; but where lightness is a desideratum, on the scalp for instance, gauze is to be preferred; and if unusual pressure is wanted in any situation elastic webbing is excellent. 6. Provision for Rest and favourable Circula- tion.—Unless wounded structures are maintained in due approximation, quick and firm union is impossible ; and since mechanical disturbance, arising from muscular action or imparted from without, alters the relations of wound-surfaces, it inevitably tends to retard healing, and it may even undo what has been already gained in that respect. Moreover, it augments local irritation, and thus intensifies inflammatory reaction, with the consequence that the escape of fluid and cells is more rapid and abundant. If at the same time the covering dressings are displaced, the wound becomes an easy prey to infection. On various grounds, therefore, unrest is ex- tremely prejudicial to repair, and must be pre- vented. The chief means to this end are posture, splints, slings and bandages; and these should be intelligibly made use of to meet the require- ments of any case, according to the region injured and the special features of the wound, so as to secure the maximum of repose combined with enough relaxation to avoid tension. Con- finement to bed is an ideal measure, but it is seldom available or submitted to except for moderate wounds of the lower extremity or severe ones in any situation. Besides saving the patient from undesirable movements, it moderates physiological activity in general, and conduces to regularity of blood-supply by keep- ing the cardiac rhythm uniform. Closely connected with the consideration of rest are questions relating to the circulation. Retardation of the current in veins and lym- phatics will seriously interfere with repair by inducing venous congestion and oedema. The utmost care must therefore be taken to avoid undue constriction or compression by bandages and splints. The omission of this precaution will also entail the risk of obstruction to the arterial supply, the effect of which would be starvation of tissues and probably gangrene of larger or smaller portions,—in particular, torn and contused fragments already seriously de- vitalised would certainly perish. Where the wound is situated in an extremity, elevation of the limb on an inclined plane sloping down- wards to the trunk will promote rapid healing, combining as it does quiescence of the parts and most favourable conditions of circulation. Aftbr-Trbatmbnt.—(A) General.—The re- parative process is extremely susceptible to in- fluences prevailing within and around a patient. In the busy routine of hospital out-patient practice these influences do not always receive the attention their great importance deserves, and in attending to details of dressing the surgeon may lose sight of that wider aspect of wound-treatment which may be expressed by the proposition that tiie growth of reparative tissue is subject to conditions governing the growth of normal tissue in childhood. Healing is powerfully influenced for good by such hy- gienic conditions as fresh air, sunshine, cleanli- ness, nourishing food, warmth, and cheerful surroundings, their combined eff'ects being to invigorate the functions of nutrition and fortify the resisting power of the tissues against noxse of all kinds. The readiness with which wounds will heal under favourable climatic conditions was strikingly illustrated in the recent South African compaign, the bright dry atmosphere to which the wounded were freely exposed benefiting the mental state as well as the physi- cal. Too much stress cannot be laid on the value of a plentiful supply of fresh air. It is not only a prime necessity for enriching the quality of the blood, but it also dilutes and re- moves deleterious substances given off from the patient's body or accumulating around him from other producing sources. The digestive system should be looked to. An accidental injury abruptly changes the habits of a patient's life, and the eff'ects of the transition from full work to comparative inaction need to be thoroughly appreciated. It is a safe rule to give a dose of calomel and a saline purgative, partly for the sake of lowering the blood-pressure, but mainly to unload the bowels of effete material, the retention of which might lead to absorption of noxious substances (auto- intoxication), and thereby render the tissues more vulnerable to bacteria. While the patient is debarred from active muscular exercise he will require less food, especially animal meat, than a healthy person, coeteris paribus. The diet should consist of simple nutritious food- stuffs adapted to the digestive powers, and variously modified to meet any special indica- tions. Alcohol is usually quite unnecessary, and had better be forbidden; in many cases it is responsible for the making of the wound and for concomitant digestive derangement, as well as other well-known complications which will demand appropriate treatment. In fine, the state of the stomach and other digestive organs should in no case be neglected. When recovery from the ansemia attendant upon severe haemorrhage is tardy, iron should be prescribed, and with this drug strychnine may sometimes be usefully combined. Recognising the therapeutic value of content- ment and cheerfulness, the surgeon will not overlook the importance of pleasant surroundings and genial influences in general.