TOXICOLOGY 52 process set up by the poison, the latter is purely chemical. Perforation caused by poisoning is usually due to the action of a corrosive, and the mode of its production leaves characteristic ap- pearances. There is no indication of limitation by inflammatory processes, the margins of the opening, instead of being thickened, are partially disintegrated, and the aperture itself is often large and of irregular outline ; if caused by sulphuric acid, the contiguous parts are charred and blackened. As a result of irritant poisoning, perforation is of exceptional occur- rence, and the appearances would more nearly resemble those due to an ordinary gastric ulcer which had given way. Some of the above-described appearances are very similar to those due to disease ; others are only met with as the result of poisoning. Acute inflammation of the mucous membrane of the stomach is exceedingly rare, except as the result of irritant poisoning. The colour of the inner surface of the stomach is not to be relied on as an indication of inflammation ; unnatural red- ness may be caused by food or medicine which possesses pigmentary properties, and during the process of digestion the gastric mucous mem- brane is reddened. Post-mortem staining pro- duces redness, which, however, is limited to the posterior part of the stomach, and, moreover, the appearance is different from that due to vital processes ; there is no glairy mucus on the surface of the membrane, which itself is not thickened. The early stage of putrefaction leads to softening of the whole thickness of the stomach wall; whereas softening due to inflam- mation is usually limited to the mucous mem- brane, which may be detached in patches. Ulcer of the stomach is much more frequently due to pathological processes than to poisoning. When an ulcer is caused by an irritant poison, it more nearly resembles an erosin, with in- flamed margin, and without the thickening and matting together of the tissues which are char- acteristic of the more slowly formed idiopathic ulcer. Post-mortem perforation of the stomach may take place owing to the solvent action of the gastric juice; but the margins of the irregular aperture are not coloured as by the action of a corrosive, and the surrounding mucous mem- brane is usually swollen and gelatinous. Inorganic Poisons—Corrosives The Mineral Acids.—Of the mineral acids, sulphuric acid is by far the most energetic corrosive ; it chars and destroys the tissue with which it comes in contact, and enters into chemical combination with albumin. Nitric acid ranks second as a tissue destroyer. Hydro- chloric acid acts much less energetically. The symptoms of poisoning by the mineral acids are those previously described (p. 50) as due to corrosives. The fumes given off by nitric and hydrochloric acids, especially the latter, are prone to attack the larynx and air- passages, and thus give rise to additional symptoms. The treatment consists in neutralising the acid as speedily as possible. Calcined magnesia is the best antidote ; but, since saving of time is all-important, any alkaline substance at hand should be made use of. In ordinary households the substance that is most likely to be available is whiting, which is impure calcium carbonate ; failing this, whitewash may be scraped off the wall or ceiling. Any of these substances should be powdered, and administered suspended in water. White of egg, or soap and water, or even water itself as a diluent, should be given if nothing better can be obtained. The stomach- pump must not be iised. As soon as the poison is neutralised, pain should be assuaged by hypodermic injections of morphine. Sulphuric Acid.—Fatal Z)ose.—Half a tea- spoonful caused the death of a child one year old. One fluid drachm is the smallest amount that has been fatal to an adult. Death has occuiTcd within an hour; it usually takes place within thirty hours. Recovery has ensued after one ounce of the strong acid was swallowed. Nitric Acid.—The smallest recorded fatal dose is two drachms. Recovery has occurred after half an ounce. Death has occurred in less than two hours ; from twelve to twenty-four hours is the average fatal period. The/iiwies from nitric acid, which has been accidentally spilt, have on several occasions caused death. Usually the dangerous symptoms, which resemble those of capillary bronchitis, do not come on until a few hours after the vapour has been inhaled. Hydrochloric Acid.—The smallest fatal dose is one teaspoonful. Recovery has followed two ounces. Death has occurred in two hours, the usual period being from eighteen to thirty hours. Post-mortem Appearances.—Externally there may be stains on the lips and chin produced by direct contact of the poison. The clothing should be examined for indications of the action of the acid and for the presence of early vomit, and any stained parts should be cut out and examined chemically. The mucous membrane of the mouth will probably be disorganised and detached in parts. The most profound changes will be found in the stomach, and, to a lesser extent, in the duodenum. When strong sul- phuric acid is the poison the inner surface of the stomach is usually darkened in colour, not unfrequently being quite black where the acid has acted most powerfully. Where not entirely disorganised, indications of intense inflammation are seen. Of all poisons sulphuric acid most frequently causes perforation of the stomach, and when this is the case the contiguous viscera may be corroded on their peritoneal surfaces by the acid which has escaped through the perfora-