137 TUBERCULOSIS are formed which have been mistaken for sar- coma. In stvine tuberculosiss occurs frequently. It resembles in its general characters bovine tuberculosis. Invasion often takes place by way of the tonsils, as shown by Sidney Martin. The disease is very common in monkeys. It usually begins in the lungs, but is apt to extend to other organs as a chronic general tuberculosis, so as to form comparatively large foci, which usually break down and produce cavities. Tuberculosis of fowls is produced by a bacillus probably related to that of mammalian tuber- culosis, but varying to some degree in morpho- logical and biological characters. These differ- ences most probably depend on environment. Nocard, Fischel, and Mafucci succeeded in bring- ing about approximation in external qualities. Portals of Invasion and Channels of Spread in Man The tubercle bacillus may invade the body by way of the respiratory passages, the alimentary tract, the skin, and more rarely by the genera- tive organs during intercourse. The first of these, the respiratory invasion., is by far the most common, both in adults and children. Even before Koch read his remark- able paper at the London Congress in 1901, this opinion was generally held. He considers that entrance is obtained so seldom by other passages and surfaces as to be a negligible quantity. It is a question, however, whether this dictum holds good so far as children are concerned, or at least, so far as this country is concerned, for statistics carefully compiled from the records of some of the more important British Hospitals for Sick Children would lead us to conclude that ingestion tuberculosis is still important, though much less important than formerly was thought. In considering the chances of exposure to infection by this method of transmission it is necessary to remember that—(1) The tubercle bacillus is not an ubiquitous organism ; it does not occur diffused throughout the whole atmo- sphere, but only in the neighbourhood of cases of the disease. 2. The bacillus dies when exposed to fresh air and sunshine, whether direct or diffused. 3. The chief danger is from sputum from cases of phthisis. If every consumptive could be taught to destroy his expectoration, the in- cidence of the disease would sink to insignificant proportions. 4. In ordinary quiet respiration the expired air is sterile. In forced expiration, e.g. coughing, a fine spray of moist particles containing many bacilli in the case of a consumptive is projected, and this being inhaled by another person, may produce the disease. Koch considers this point of special importance. 5. Sputum is dangerous if allowed to dry and become mixed with dust. When this is raised by currents of air or conveyed to the mouth by the hands, as in the case of creeping infants, it causes tuberculosis in a susceptible person. If such dust is protected from the sunlight it retains its virulence for years. In respiratory tuberculosis the bacilli gain admission by any part of the respiratory tract— — nasal passages and naso-pharynx, larynx, trachea, and bronchial tree. The larynx rarely shows primary infection; this being most common below that level. In some cases the organism seems able to pass through the bronchial mucous membrane without producing a local lesion, and to infect the lymphatic glands. From the naso-pharynx infection of the middle ear may take place by way of the Eustachian tube. Alimentary Tract.—The bacilli are able to gain entrance through any part of this tract except pharynx, oesophagus, stomach and duo- denum. The parts most commonly invaded are the lower part of the ileum and the tonsils. Bacilli have been demonstrated entering the latter. From Sidney Martin's experiments one con- cludes that the tonsils are chiefly attacked by bacilli in articles of food. In his inhalation experiments he could not get invasion of the tonsil. There may be no local lesion either in intestine or tonsil, but the glands in connection with these are affected, and from these the disease spreads. Even though some authorities, e.g. Benda, will not admit a primary tonsillar infection, the evidence obtained from post- mortems in children and experience of cases in which removal of scrofulous cervical glands— the only manifestation of tuberculosis in the body—cure the patient completely, compel us to believe that infection certainly can take place by way of the tonsils. The intestine is much more often affected, however, either primarily or secondarily, to a destructive pul- monary tuberculosis. The bacilli enter through the Peyer's patches or are carried in through these by leucocytes. To determine the relative frequency of re- spiratory and ingestion tuberculosis in children, the writer in 1899 investigated the post-mortem records of the Royal Edinburgh Hospital for Sick Children, and found that out of 331 cases in which the primary focus could approximately be determined, 221 or 67 per cent were of respiratory origin, and 93 or 28'1 per cent were the result of ingestion. Two years later, in the light of Koch's paper, he examined the addi- tional records, and found that during this period 43 cases of tuberculosis were sectioned, of which 11 or 25'6 per cent were alimentary in origin. We have thus a total of 374 cases of which 104 or 27"8 per cent were, so far as could be deter- mined, alimentary in origin.