72 TOXICOLOGY certainty of movement of the limbs, uncon- sciousness, and dilatation of the pupils. The treatment consists in evacuating the stomach with tube or emetic, and in the subsequent administration of stimulants, with the applica- tion of external warmth and artificial respira- tion if needed. Hypodermic injections of one- twentieth of a grain of atropine, or one-thirtieth of a grain of stryclmine, may be given. Cocaine.—This alkaloid has frequently given rise to dangerous symptoms when used to pro- cure local anaesthesia. The symptoms vary somewhat. There may be clonic spasms, or convulsions, unconsciousness, rapid pulse and respirations, dilatation of the pupils, with de- lirium in some cases. The treatment consists in washing out the stomach, if the poison was swallowed, in administering stimulants and also chloroform vapour, if the clonic spasms interfere with respiration, in which case artificial respira- tion may be required. If the cocaine was in- jected subcutaneously the treatment is the same except as regards washing out the stomach. Ten grains of cocaine hydrochlorate caused the death of an adult within fifty minutes after the poison was swallowed ; recovery has taken place after upwards of forty grains. Death has been caused by the injection of twenty minims of a 4 per cent solution of the hydrochlorate into the urethra. Three and a half grains of cocaine injected into the breast of a woman preparatory to an operation caused immediate epileptoid convulsions, and death in twenty minutes. In almost all fatal cases death occurred within an hour, and in most cases within ten or fifteen minutes. Chronic cocaine-poisoning is an analogue to chronic morphinism. It is initiated by the medical administration of cocaine by hypo- dermic injection, and by nasal and laryngeal insufflation of atomised solutions. The habitue frequently adheres to the original method, so that if the drug was prescribed for naso-pharyn- geal treatment, he will continue to take it in the same way, many times a day, for an indefinite period. Mental apathy and moral degeneration result, and the patient is miserable unless he constantly resorts to the one thing which he has come to regard as necessary to his existence. Anomalous pains and disorders of the digestive organs, with corresponding emaciation, occur. A peculiar disturbance of sensation is often produced by the habitual use of cocaine : the patient feels as though grains of sand, or small round bodies, or in some instances worms, were under the skin. The treatment, obviously, is withdrawal of the drug. To accomplish this it may be necessary to place the patient, tempor- arily, imder surveillance. Tobacco.—Nicotine, the active principle of tobacco, is one of the few liquid alkaloids ; it paralyses the cardiac nerves, and causes con- traction of the peripheral blood-vessels. Acute poisoning by tobacco is usually accidental. It has occurred from the injection of an infusion into the rectum to destroy worms; from the application of an infusion to the skin in order to kill parasites; and, as a practical joke, from pouring the juice out of a well-smoked pipe into beer, or spirits, about to be drunk by a partially inebriated person. In one notable instance nicotine was used homicidally, the victim dying five minutes after the poison was administered. Severe toxic effects have been produced by smoking tobacco—on one occasion, at least, ending fatally. When the poison has been swallowed the treatment consists of washing out the stomach, or in administering an emetic, and then placing the patient in the recumbent posture, giving stimulants, promoting external warmth and, if necessary, performing artificial respiration. One twenty-fifth of a grain of strychnine may be injected subcutaneously with advantage, and repeated if required. There are no characteristic post-mortem appearances : the odour of the poison may be perceptible on open- ing the stomach, the mucous membrane of which may be injected or ecchymosed. Chronic tobacco-poisoning is due to excessive or prolonged smoking of strong tobacco, to chewing tobacco, to taking snuif, and to the inhalation of fine particles of tobacco by workers in tobacco manufactories. The symptoms com- prise dyspepsia, chronic catarrh of the mucous membrane of the pharynx and trachea, blunting of the senses of taste and smell, irregular action of the heart, faintness, tremor, and amblyopia. The symptoms that usually cause the patient to seek advice are the excessive and irregular action of the heart and the defect of vision. Tobacco amblyopia is probably due to pyridine, or to picoline, as much as, or more than, to nicotine, which is decomposed when the tobacco is burnt. With rare exceptions tobacco-ambly- opia is only met with in old smokers—those who have indulged in the habit freely for fifteen or more years; so that it is uncommon before forty years of age. It is due to the presence of a central scotoma, especially for red and green ; the periphery of the field of vision remains un- altered. The symptoms of chronic tobacco- poisoning pass away on cessation of the habit which caused them; the amblyopia may not disappear for several months. The administra- tion of strychnine is said to be helpful. Spotted Hemlock (Conium maculatum), like tobacco, yields a liquid alkaloid—conine—which possesses a characteristic mousy odour. It paralyses the motor nerve-terminals, and sub- sequently the motor centres of the cord and brain, death being due to respiratory paralysis. The symptoms produced comprise a burning sensation with a feeling of constriction in the throat, nausea, vomiting, pain, oppression in the stomach, and diarrhoea. The pupils dilate and the surface becomes cold; the respiratory move-