426 VEINS, DISEASES OF frequent cramps, and is disabled from prolonged walking exercise. The pains may be mistaken for rheumatic conditions unless an inspection of the limb be made. The examination of the part is to be completed by getting the patient to lie down with the limb elevated till the distension has subsided; and then, putting the thumb upon the termination of the internal saphenous vein and pressing firmly upon it, the patient is asked to stand up. The pressure on the vein removes the weight of the column of blood in the upper vessels, and as it usually renders the venous distension to be only slight, we can judge of the effect likely to be produced by ligature or removal of this part of the vein. Treatment.— 1. Palliative. 2. Radical.— Palliative treatment consists in the use of some appliance which gives artificial support to the veins, and it is often found to give great relief to the symptoms, and to lead to improvement. The support may be a well-fitting elastic or silk stocking or a bandage, applied to the limb from below upwards. A domette or cheese-cloth bandage, or one of elastic webbing, applied by the figure-of-eight, or " Watson's" method, is the most suitable, and it should not be applied very firmly, as subsequent swelling of the limb may cause in- jurious constriction. The patient should sleep with the lower end of the bed raised, and apply the stocking or bandage before getting out of bed, and not remove it until after he has gone back to bed. Massage removes the tired, aching feeling, and improves the nutrition of the limls, and in addition a moderate amount of walking exercise is advisable. Intercurrent attacks of phlebitis are fairly common, and may lead to a cure from the accompanying thrombosis, and these attacks are to be treated on the lines previously indicated. The radical treatment is to be advised when there is much pain, when the palliative treat- ment cannot be carried out, when there is a tendency to the occurrence of complications, if the patient is otherwise suitable for operation, and in candidates for the physical examination for His Majesty's services. The cases most suitable for operative treat- ment, and in which a good prospect of cure may be entertained, are those in which the varicosity is confined to one vein, or where the condition is definitely localised. In the former class the internal saphenous vein, for instance, may be the main vessel affected, and it may show an over-distension in one or two parts of its course. In the latter there may be a definite and localised dilatation of both saphenous veins, but those cases where there is a diffuse enlargement of both veins and of their tributaries do not afford such suitable conditions for operation. The more the varices lie longitudinally, i.e. in the line of the trunk, the better and more lasting is the result. The operation for varicocele is successful because the whole affected mass can be isolated, and the same condition in the lower limb, similarly treated, gives equally good results. Many different forms of operative interference have been recommended. The earlier ones depended for their success upon producing a localised thrombosis of the vessels, and this was attained by the injection of irritating or astringent fluids, but as this was by no means free from risk, it has been abandoned. Other methods consist in removing skin, so as to tighten up the cutaneous covering of the limb and provide an artificial support like a stocking. It is of the greatest importance to be sure of asepsis in undertaking any operation on the veins. The usual and best form of operation is that which consists in taking out the affected vein by a long incision and dissection, or by remov- ing an inch or two at intervals, by separate incisions, and by treating the terminal part of the internal saphenous vein in the same way when its tributaries are affected. The affected veins should be marked out in the skin before operation with carbol fuchsin, as it may be difficult to find the vessels when the patient is recumbent. Longitudinal incisions are made over tlie varices, and about three inches of the vessel removed. A modification of the operation consists in exposing the vein by a short incision, freeing it for a short distance, and then with forceps seizing the vein and twisting it, so drawing out a considerable length and at the same time arresting the bleeding. Careful ligature of the tributaries is im- portant to prevent subsequent haemorrhage. The incisions are carefully sewn and a dress- ing applied, and the limb should be bandaged over the whole length and put in a splint. The patient may be kept in bed for three weeks, and should be instructed to avoid muscular over- strain, and, if necessary, to wear an elastic or silk stocking for a little longei'. It is often necessary to excise a varicose vein above an ulcer in order to get healing of the ulcer. This may be done although the other indications for operative interference are absent. Other diseases of veins, including the pre- sence of the embryos of taenia and the bil- harzia hacmatobia, and the occurrence of some functional conditions, of which a spasmodic contraction of the veins of the lower limb is the best recognised, require only to be mentioned. The latter condition resembles a thickening of the wall of an organic nature, but is dis-