363 UTERUS, NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE ing organs. They may be found under the peritoneum, in the walls, or under the mucous membrane. They can easily pierce the peri- toneum and develop fresh colonies in the pelvic or abdominal cavities; or, piercing the mucous membrane, they may be extruded into the cavity of the uterus and so escape per vaginam. The symptoms vary with the position of the mass. If the cysts are large and develop to- wards the abdominal cavity, a smooth, elastic swelling may be felt through the anterior ab- dominal wall. This tumour must be diagnosed from ovarian and broad ligament cysts, from fibroids and from pregnancy. Pain may arise from pressure and from inflammation, the patient may also suffer from a sense of weight and uneasiness. Difficulties of micturition and of defsecation may occur, and the periods are often irregular. Where the tumour communi- cates with the uterine cavity there may be expulsion of variously sized cysts, also of fluid and of blood. The hsemorrhage is seldom severe; it usually occurs as a slight but persistent metrorrhagia. In some cases sympathetic mammary changes occur which complete the simulation of ordinary pregnancy, or of preg- nancy with hydatidiform degeneration of the chorion. A certain diagnosis rests on the detection of booklets and on the chemical characters of the fluid discharged. It contains no albumin, and therefore is not coagulated by the ordinary reagents, such as heat and nitric acid. It does contain chloride of sodium, and therefore becomes turbid on the addition of nitrate of silver. The diagnosis is specially important in the case of large masses simulating fibroids, ovarian and other cysts, because the entrance into the abdominal cavity of the hook- lets and minute cysts must be carefully avoided. Treatment.—When hydatids of the uterus simulate a vesicular mole, the cervix should be dilated and the uterus evacuated and curetted. If the tumour present unbroken at or near the OS uteri, it should be incised, its contents cleared out, then it should be irrigated with 25 per cent solution of hydrogen peroxide, and, lastly, it should be packed with long strips of iodoform gauze. In the case where hydatids have burrowed deeply into the musculature of the uterus, hysterectomy may be needed. Actinomycosis of the uterus is very rare, and when it exists is probably only an exten- sion from the Fallopian tubes. Even in these actinomycosis is said to be " an anatomical curiosity" (see vol. i. p. 51). V. Malignant Tumours of the Uterus Introduction . . . . . .363 Cancer of the Neck of Uterus . . 364 Treatment ..... 368 Cancer of Neck in Pregnancy . . 369 Cancer of the Body .... 369 Treatment . . . . .371 Cancer of the Uterus and Fibroids . 371 Sarcoma ...... 372 Hysterectomy . . . . .372 Abdominal . . . . .374 Vaginal ...... 375 The term malignant, when used in relation to a tumour, signifies that it inevitably destroys life ; and in the article "Tumours" (vol. x. p. 153) every care is taken to point out that malignant tumoui's occur in the connective tissue group, where they are called sarcomata, and in the epithelial group, where they are known as cancers or carcinomata. As the architecture of the uterus is such as to render it liable to carcinomata and sarcomata, it will be useful to briefly review the distribution of the con- nective tissue and the epithelial elements in this complex organ, and also to consider certain structures connected with the development of the embryo, which have acquired notoriety in relation to some destructive tumours of a peculiar type. The uterus is structurally a hollow muscle of the unstriped variety, containing, as is usual with this kind of muscle, a central space lined with mucous membrane. In this instance the mucous membrane is called the endometrium, and presents such peculiar characters that it may, without exaggeration, be described as the most extraordinary mucous membrane in the body. If the Fallopian tube or a piece of small intestine be examined in transverse section, it is quite easy to distinguish its muscular coat and to separate it from the mucous membrane, a loose connective tissue track indicating the boundary line. In the uterus there is no such line of separation, and the walls are thick and resistant. A careful study of the morphology of the uterus, however, teaches that this thick wall represents an enormously developed mus- cularis mucosse, and this metamorphosed area extends from the fundus to the vaginal opening (external os) of the uterus. The endometrium which lines the cavity of the uterus is distin- guished from that belonging to the cervical canal by the fact that when the Fallopian tube, the uterus, or an ovarian follicle contains an oosperm (fertilised ovum), the superficial parts of the endometrium above the point known as the internal os become changed into a thick, soft membrane known as the decidua, which is sometimes shed as a membranous bag, or in shreds when pregnancy fails. The epithelium in relation with the uterus exhibits some remarkable variations which need consideration. The endometrium of the cavity of the uterus is beset with a single layer of columnar ciliated epithelium directly continuous with that lining the Fallopian tubes. This epithelium dips into the endometrium very deeply, and forms long tubular glands ; they run obliquely in the mucous membrane.