316 URTICARIA the bites and stings of insects; for example, those of fleas, bed-bugs, wasps, gnats, and mosquitoes, and certain caterpillars, such as the common " woolly bear " ; the bites of leeches, and the stings of several varieties of jelly-fishes. (3) Mechanical and other Irritants.—Scratch- ing and rubbing readily induce urticaria in a susceptible skin, or when some pruritic affection is present, such as scabies or prurigo; the application of the galvanic current, as in per- forming electrolysis for the removal of hairs, is often followed by a wheal; and a lash from a whip, if sharp enough, may cause one. In some individuals the application of a lint- seed poultice will produce wheals, in others dusting with iodoform, or even sponging with boric lotion, will be sufficient to do so, and in highly susceptible patients even the smell of iodoform can cause urticaria. Again, in rare instances, cold air, cold winds, cold water, salt baths and Tui-kish baths, have all been known to produce it. II. Indirect or Reflex Causes.—(1) Age and Sex.—Urticaria may affect either sex, though it is somewhat more common in females. It may occur at any age, but the papular variety may be said to be a disease of early life, while true urticarial wheals are rare in infancy. (2) Toxins.—The most common cause of urticaria is the action of a toxin circulating in the blood, and acting directly or refiexly on the vaso-motor mechanism of the skin. The poison may be in the nature of some drug, such as copaiba, turpentine, quinine, salicin, santonin, iodide of potassium, chloral or morphia, any of which in the smallest dose may cause a profuse urticaria in an individual with the requisite idiosyncrasy towards the drug. Errors in diet are, however, more frequent causes of urticaria than drugs. The list of articles of diet which may set up urticaria is, of necessity, a long one, since the factor of idiosyn- crasy plays such an important part. Among the most common offenders are shell-fish, and especially mussels, crabs, and oysters; oily fish or fish fried in oil, such as sardines, herrings, and eels; certain meats, as pork, veal, and sausages, especially when highly seasoned ; fruits, as strawberries, raspberries, dates, and nuts; miscellaneous articles such as cheese, eggs, porridge, and pickles; the ordinary beverages, tea, cocoa, and coffee; and sweet wines such as port, moselle, and champagne. Urticaria may also occur in association with gout, rheumatism, and malaria, and is due to the circulation in the blood of the respective toxins of these diseases. It not infrequently alternates with attacks of gout and chronic rheumatism, and has been known to replace the cold stage of a malarial paroxysm. The serums and antitoxins which are employed therapeutically in various diseases may cause urticaria. (3) Disorders of other Organs.—Digestive disturbances, chronic dyspepsia, and the like, may render the patient prone to attacks of urticaria. In infants and children a slight chronic intestinal catarrh may be associated with urticaria, and an outburst of wheals is in such cases liable to take place from such causes as a change of air, injudicious dieting, or the cutting of a tooth. A common cause of urti- caria in children is the presence of worms. Functional and organic disorders of the nervous system may also cause urticaria. Severe emotion, gi'ief, anger, shame, and fright have all been known to do so. It may also occur in connection with neuralgia and loco- motor ataxia. Disorders of the genital system, such as diseases of the ovaries, may be associated with it, and it may occur during menstruation, pregnancy, and lactation, and has been known to follow the passing of a uterine sound. It has also been reported after an enema. Diseases of the liver with jaundice, and diseases of the kidneys with glycosuria and albuminuria, may be complicated by urticaria, and paroxysmal disorders, such as asthma and biliary colic, may alternate or be associated with it. In several instances a reflex urticaria has been reported after the tapping of a pleuritic effusion or a hydatid cyst. Pathology.—It is customary to classify urti- caria as an angioneurosis, and to define it pathologically as an acute spastic oedema, the result of a vaso-motor disturbance directly or reflexly induced. To a certain extent this de- finition is adequate, but it is insufficient, as it loses sight of the inflammatory changes which are part of the pathological process. A wheal, such as that produced by a nettle, if it be excised a few minutes after it appears, presents the following histological architecture : —The capillaries of the skin are dilated, the lymph-spaces, especially in the deeper layers of the corium, are widened, and there is a conse- quent stretching, attenuation, and sometimes rupture of the fibrous elements of the skin, especially the elastic framework. Around the dilated vessels and lymphatics there is a deposi- tion of poly nuclear leucocytes, and sometimes fibrin. The epidermis is not implicated to any extent, and is simply raised up and stretched by the oedematous fluid beneath. But the cellular infiltration does not consist only of leucocytes, there is also a large number of mast- cells, and sometimes a few small connective tissue cells. In other words, the cellular infil- tration is similar to that of an acute inflamma- tory process. There is at present considerable diversity of opinion with regard to how these histological changes are brought about. It is generally believed that the irritating toxin causes directly or reflexly a spasmodic contraction of the small