220 UMBILICUS, DISEASES OF infection, and the bacilli can be detected in the pus at the navel. In adults, especially fat people, the accumula- tion of dirt and sebaceous matter in and around the umbilicus may give rise to inflammation or ulceration ; erysipelas, cellulitis, or abscess may follow. Actual concretions, made up principally of inspissated sebaceous material, have also been found. Treatment must be conducted on ordinary lines. In omphalitis mercurial ointment and lotion are of value. The umbilicus may be removed if necessary. Eczema.—This occurs both in children and stout adults, being in some cases associated with want of cleanliness, in others with the presence of tumours. Syphilis. — Ulcerative processes, jaundice, and hsemorrhage are more common in congenital syphilis. Hunterian chancres and condylomata have been seen at the umbilicus. FiSTUL/E.—(a) FcBcal. —These, when appear- ing at the fall of the cord, are due either to the persistence of the omphalo - mesenteric duct (Meckel's diverticulum), in such cases the bowel below the diverticulum being normal or more or less closed, or to inclusion of a piece of bowel in the cord ligature. The fistulous opening may be quite minute, being perhaps situated at the apex of a little tumour consisting of prolapsed mucous membrane, or if the opening is wide, large portions of intestine may be everted through it. Rarely the small gut has been found to open at the umbilicus just above the normal position of the c£ecum, all the intestines below this point being absent. The treatment of these fistulcB depends upon the condition of the bowel below: a minute opening may close without treatment, in other cases a plastic operation may be necessary: finally, a wide diverticulimi may be detached from the umbilicus and removed. If the bowel below is closed the umbilical opening must be kept patent. Fistulse of later date, in children, are usually due to tuberculous peritonitis. In adults they may arise from peritonitis, tuberculous or from other causes, especially appendix trouble, or from rupture of a strangulated hernia, cellulitis of the abdominal wall that has involved the bowel, or from injury. In rare cases worms have passed thi-ough the umbilicus after the adherence of a circumscribed ulcer of the gut. Umbilico-gastric fistula;, from simple or carcino- matous ulcer of the stomach, may occur. The treatment of these cases is difficult, often can be merely palliative, and must be conducted on ordinary lines. (6) Urinary.— These are always due to a patent urachus ; see under " Urachus," p. 240. (c) Biliary.—These are very rare. They may be congenital, in connection with some abnor- mality of the gall-bladder or ducts ; or more commonly acquired, when, if due to injury or certain inflammatory processes, they may close spontaneously or after operation ; but if due to a malignant growth or stricture of the common bile-duct they are best left alone. Gall-stones may pass through these abnormal openings. {d) PiLrulent.—These are due to the opening of an abscess associated with peritonitis from tubercle, appendicitis, or some other cause, in- testinal contents and pus being both present in the discharge; from suppuration in an ovarian or hydatid cyst, bile being also present in the latter case; from a urachal abscess, when urine is mixed with the pus; from an abscess in the abdominal wall, or from similar causes. Persistent Omphalo-Mesenteric Duct. — Hence arise ffecal fistula (see above), adenoma in the new-born (see below), cysts containing a modified succus entericus, or sacs discharging a similar fluid by a fistulous opening at the um- bilicus. Such conditions may be readily under- stood by remembering that tlie duct may under- go complete involution in one part, another may remain as a solid fibrous cord, another may undergo development into a structure identical with that of the small intestine. Tumours.—Of innocent tumours the most im- portant are the polypi; of these the so-called granulomata are due to overgrowth of granula- tion tissue after the fall of the cord. They are little, pedunculated growths, strawberry- coloured, varying in size from a pea to a hazel nut, bleeding easily, and secreting an abundance of sero-purulent fluid. Possibly some originate from allantoic remnants. Microscopically the little tumours show round and fusiform cells and many fine vessels. They may drop off spontane- ously or on the application of powdered nitrate of lead. If not, a ligature round their base soon causes desiccation and separation. The other class of polypi, appearing at the same period, are the adenomata. Here a portion of the omphalo-mesenteric duct persists, and the mucous membrane, prolapsing and proliferating, gives rise to a little tumour having the structure of small intestine. Such tumours, the writer has found, have a solid cord passing back from their base to the apex of a Meckel's diverticulum. Clinically we find a red vascular tumour much resembling a granuloma, but having in the middle a little canal ending blindly. Their appearance much resembles rectal prolapse in an infant or a rectal polypus. They grow slowly and may remain stationary for months, seldom becoming larger than a cherry. There is an abundant secretion of fluid which soaks the child's clothes. The writer measured this in one case, and found it averaged 10 to 15 c.c. daily. The fluid was viscid, clear, and distinctly alka- line. It contained albumin, it had no digestive action on proteids or starch. Microscopically these tumours are covered with a layer of glands identical with Lieberkuhn's follicles, some of