467 VISCERAL PAIN spinal cord, as in locomotor ataxia, the charac- teristic lancinating pains are referred to the peripheral distribution of the nerve. So also are the pains of herpes zoster, a disease of the ganglia of the posterior spinal roots. In this article the subject is limited to the study of the pain and certain other associated symptoms arising from disease of the thoracic and abdom- inal organs. From the study of the facts that will be detailed later the following conclusions have been arrived at: that pain is only felt in the peripheral distribution of a sensory cerebro- spinal nerve; that there is no evidence of sensory cerebro-spinal nerves being distributed to abdominal or thoracic organs; that the stimulation proceeding from those organs, which gives rise to pain, is conveyed to some part of the brain or spinal cord, there the stimulation affects some portion of a cerebro-spinal sensory nerve, and the pain thus arising is referred to the peripheral distribution of the sensory nerve so affected. The view expressed in the above statement implies that the organs themselves are incapable of evincing pain or other sensation, as touch, sensibility to cold and heat, but that there is originated in them an impulse which passes by their nerves to the centre of one or more sen- sory nerves in the brain or spinal cord. The stimulation of these nerve centres evokes pain which is referred to the peripheral distribution of these nerves in the body wall. II. Nerve-Supply of the Viscera.—The chief nerve-supply of the thoracic and abdominal organs comes from the sympathetic system. Nerve fibres pass out from the sympathetic ganglia to the various organs, and from the organs to the sympathetic ganglia. Nerve fibres pass from the spinal cord to the sym- pathetic ganglia, and from the sympathetic ganglia to the cord. The functions of these nerves passing to and from the sympathetic ganglia are various, but are mainly concerned in regulating the functions of the various organs to which they are distri- buted. It is frequently assumed by experimen- tal physiologists and others that certain afferent nerves in the viscera are " sensory " in function, and that certain ganglia are also "sensory." Except that these nerves run from the viscera to the cord, practically no proof has been adduced to support this assertion. Observa- tions and experiments directed to ascertain the degree of sensibility of the viscera have de- monstrated their insensitiveness. Pain, when evoked, has invariably been a referred pain. The other nerves distributed to the viscera are the vagus and phrenic nerves. Branches of the vagus pass to most of the thoracic and abdominal organs. The functions of the vagus are numerous, but there is no evidence that it is a sensory nerve, yet there are grounds for assuming that it contains afferent fibres, which convey impressions that stimulate the centres of cerebro-spinal nerves. The phrenic, though mainly motor in its functions, has been demon- strated by Sherrington to contain afferent fibres. These convey impressions which stimulate the roots of sensory nerves in the spinal cord. Evidence of these statements will be given later. If there be no sensory nerves distributed to the viscera, the question arises, by what mechanism is the symptom of pain brought about? That pain is evoked from affections of the viscera is a matter of which there can be no doubt. It is scarcely conceivable that a special arrangement of nerves should exist to cause pain and never be employed during a whole lifetime. Were the pain of angina pectoris, for instance, evoked through stimulation of cardiac sensory nerves, these nerves in the vast majority of people would never be exercised. The means by which this is brought about is probably by the excessive stimulation of the sympathetic nerves in visceral disease. The performance of the visceral functions passes unnoticed by the individual. From the brain and spinal cord to the viscera, and from the viscera to the brain and spinal cord, a flow of nervous impulse is nevertheless constantly maintained. When from any cause the strength of the afferent impulse is increased the stimulation arising in the brain or cord affects neighbouring cells which are in connection with nerves supplying skin and muscle of the external body wall. The individual then becomes conscious of this by feeling pain in the peripheral distribution of these nerve centres thus stimulated, and certain muscles likewise become tonically conti'acted or more readily liable to contraction, in order to protect the underlying viscera. Thus peristalsis of the bowel takes place, and the individual is vmconscious of the process. But when the peristalsis becomes violent he becomes conscious of the fact, but it is revealed to him as a severe pain in the nerves of the skin and muscle of the abdomen. III. Evidence of the Insensitiveness of the Viscera.—(a) Experimental. — Numerous ex- periments have been made on animals, demon- strating the insensitiveness of the viscera. Haller, in 1752, published a series of observa- tions where he had exposed the various internal organs and submitted them to a great variety of injuries without evincing the symptom of pain or other sign of discomfort in the animals operated upon. These observations have been in a great measure corroborated by later experi- mentalists. (6) Clinical.—The clinical evidence is equally convincing, although the almost universal testi- mony of medical experience is seemingly opposed to this view. Medical men are daily finding evidence of what they assume to be sensitive organs. Pressure over an enlarged liver causes