URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 294 evidence which it affords of excessive proteid decomposition under the influence of bacteria, either in the intestinal canal or in some of the body cavities. The most frequent cause is excessive albuminous decomposition in the alimentary canal, which is the seat of origin of the indoxyl-sulphuric acid present in normal urine. A quantitative estimate of such changes is best obtained by the determination of the relation between the aromatic and ordinary sulphates of the urine. Thus an increased output of indigo is often observed in cases of intestinal obstruction and in not a few intestinal disorders. Simon lays much stress upon a diminished secretion of hydrochloric acid by the stomach as a cause of indicanuria. Thus it occurs in many cases of carcinoma of that organ, and also in connection with gastritis. Examples of excessive formation of indol else- where than in the alimentary tract are afforded by cases of putrid empyema, foetid bronchitis, and pulmonary gangrene, and von Jaksch attaches much importance to such varieties of indicanuria. He also includes peritonitis in this group, but in this condition the associated paralysis of the intestinal walls may also contribute to the result. The precipitation of free indigo from the urine has no special clinical significance, but a large precipitation is indicative of an excessive output of the indigo-yielding materials, especi- ally of indoxyl-glycuronic acid. The separation is usually determined by putrefactive changes in the urine itself. Skatoxyl compounds also yield red colouring matters under the influence of acids with an oxidising agent, and it is probable that such skatoxyl derivatives are often produced together with the indigo pigments when the urine is subjected to Jaffe's test. Allcaptonuria is the name assigned by Boe- deker to a condition of great interest, and at the same time of extreme rarity. The urine, which has a natural appearance when passed, darkens on exposure to air, passing through various shades of brown to black. This change is much more rapid when the urine is rendered alkaline. The urine also stains linen or woollen fabrics deeply, and readily reduces Fehling's solution with the aid of heat. However, it does not give the bismuth test for sugar, and the reducing substance contained in it does not ferment with yeast and does not rotate the polarised ray in either direction. By these means, and by the rapid darkening with alkalies, the condition is recognised, and its nature may be proved by the isolation from the urine of homogentisic acid in the form of the lead salt. Alkaptonuria is in most instances congenital, life-long, and harmless, but has been temporary, or has developed some time after birth, in a few cases. Of the congenital cases a considerable number have occurred in brothers and sisters of whom a large proportion have been the children of first cousins. It has been much more fre- quently met with in males than in females. The anomaly usually comes under notice on account of the manner in which the napkins of infants are stained by their urine, or in adult life on account of the refusal of the patients by insurance offices because of the reducing power of their urine. In some of the earlier cases the peculiarity was attributed to pyrocatechin or to proto- catechuic acid, but there is every reason to believe that homogentisic acid (hydroquinone- acetic acid, C„H3(OH)2.CH2COOH) is the ab- normal constituent in all true alkapton urines. Since the discovery of this acid by Wolkow and Baumann it has been found in every case ex- amined. A second allied acid, uroleucic, which was detected in association with homogentisic acid in the urine of two brothers studied by Kirk, has not since been met with. As Wolkow and Baumann first showed, the output of homogentisic acid in such cases is conspicuously increased by a diet rich in pro- teid, and still more by the administration of tyrosin by the mouth, and there is little doubt that tyrosin, formed in the intestine, is its parent substance. On the other hand, when tyrosin is given to normal individuals no alkap- tonuria results. The evidence available suggests that alkap- tonuria is a "sport" of metabolism, a chemical analogue of structural malformations, but where- in the metabolism of alkaptonuric persons differs from that of normal individuals, and why they excrete intact the benzene ring of their tyrosin, which, under ordinary circumstances, is broken up in the tissues, is not yet apparent. The problem is rendered more difficult by the fact that the change from tyrosin to homo- gentisic acid involves chemical changes of a quite unfamiliar kind. Wolkow and Baumann suggested that this change might be brought about by a special micro-organism in the in- testine, b\it further researches have not lent support to such an infective theory, which can hardly be reconciled with the known facts. The recognition of alkaptonuria as a harmless condition is of some importance from a clinical point of view and in connection with life insur- ance, but there can be no doubt that its rarity is real and not apparent. The total of cases recorded up to the present time is only forty, and of these no less than eighteen have occurred in seven families. XI. The Neutral Sulphur of Urine, Hydrothionuria, Cystinuria Some 15 per cent of the total sulphur in human urine has escaped oxidation to sulphuric acid, and for this fraction Salkowsky suggested