VENTILATION AND WARMING 437 the combustion practically makes a separate circulation above the level of the gas-jets; the result is the same as if the ceiling were lowered to that level (Shaw). Fifths Dynamics of Ventilation. — Practical ventilation is an engineering problem, the con- ditions of which are never twice the same. This is obvious from the following enumeration of premises needing ventilation :—Dwelling-houses, including cellar-dwellings, one-roomed, two- roomed houses, one storied, back-to-back, tene- ments of flats, semi-detached and detached villas, mansion-houses, common lodging-houses, poorhouses, workhouses, prisons — all being occupied for the greater part of the twenty- four hours ; Schools, day-schools, night-schools, lit by gas or lamp—all being occupied for several hours continuously; Churches and meeting-halls—being occupied for two hours or more by persons in repose; Drill-halls, gym- nasia, etc.—being occupied for longer and shorter periods by persons in great activity; Workshops and factories—being occupied for twelve hours or more continuously in varying conditions as to dust, dampness, trade effluvia, etc., by persons active and passive ; Hospitals, occupied by the sick—including general hospitals, ma- ternity hospitals, infectious disease hospitals, sanatoria for consumption, etc. No single system is equally applicable to all these, not to speak of ships, canal-boats, mines, etc. The fundamental principles, however, are the same for all. The physical theory of ventilation may be stated in two propositions: {a) Given a " head of air," then a continuous flow of air through a room can be maintained, the quantity of air entering by all inlets being exactly equal to that issuing by all outlets ; (6) a " head of air " is produced by difference of pressure between the air within and the air without a room. Air is not alive; it will not move of its own accord. From these two principles, it follows that the essence of ventilation as a physical problem is how to produce such a head of air as will cause a required quantity of air to flow con- tinuously at a required rate through a room with given inlets and outlets. In practice, the problem is how to provide each person with approximately the quantities of air specified in the above tables. Sixth, Systems of Ventilation: Ventilating Mechanisms. — Systems of ventilation may be classified into (A) Vacuum Systems, and (B) Plenum Systems—these terms representing the two fundamental methods of producing a " head of air," with the consequent flow of air into and out of the room. The common division into " natural " systems and "mechanical" systems is peculiarly inept; since the so-called " natural" systems are highly artificial, and the " mechani- cal" systems involve precisely the same prin- ciple, namely, alteration in air-pressure, as the " natural" systems. (A) Vacuum or Extraction Systems (a) Open Fire with Flue.—The heat of the fire expands the volume of air in the chimney, reduces the density, so causes an upward flow, which in turn causes a flow in the room-air. The air removed must be made good by air from without. The chimney is the outlet; the inlets are all other openings, including cracks, crevices, doors, windows, etc. The ventilating efficiency depends on the difference between the temperature maintained in the chimney and the temperature of the air outside. The following table from Morin indicates the extraordinary capacity of the open fire as a ventilator:— Relative Size of Chimney Flue for different Rooms The open fire is a compromise between a ventilator and a heater. To secure the best results for ventilation, without sacrificing too much heat, " Morin recommends that the tem- perature of the air in the chimney be maintained at about 45° Fahr. above the external air, and the velocity of the smoke issuing from the chimney should be about 10 feet per second, in order to secure stability in the draught, and that the chimney should be capped with a cone- shaped top—the area of the orifice of discharge to be one-half that of the chimney" (Shaw in Stevenson and Murphy, vol. i. p. 126). From the table it is seen that a ward of 10,600 cubic feet, which would accommodate from five to six infectious patients at 2000 cubic feet per patient, may, by a rectangular flue of less than 3 feet square, or a cylindrical flue of 1^ feet square, have an air supply of 53,000 cubic feet per hour drawn through. Thus if the inlets are of the proper size and properly placed, each patient may be supplied with from 9000 to 10,600 cubic feet of air per hour, which is three times more than the amount theoretically necessary. Allowance, however, must be made for irregularity of draught, closing of inlets, sinking of fire, etc. Where gas-jets are the heaters, the current may be kept constant, pro- vided the temperature is maintained in the flue. Cubic Capacity of Room ill Cubic feet. Volume of Air to be removed by the Cliimney per Hour in Cubic Feet. Area of Section of Rectangular Chimney Flue in Square Feet. Diameter of Section of Cylindrical Chimney in Feet. 3,500 17,500 •99 •88 4,2C0 21.000 1-19 •98 5,300 26,500 1-48 1-08 6,350 31,750 1-78 1-21 7,750 38,750 2-17 rsi 9,200 46,000 2-57 1-44 10,600 53,000 2-97 1^54