362 UTERUS, NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE intra-ligamentous, and where it is subperitoneal. It is unsuitable where there are many small growths, and where they are submucous. The abdomen being opened if the tumours are subperitoneal, the peritoneum over the growths is incised, the tumour shelled out, the flaps trimmed, and hsemorrhage having been arrested they are sewn together with Lembert's suture. If the growth be a solitary soft myo-fibroma embedded in the hypertrophied musculature of the uterus, the operation is more difficult, but it is well worth doing in suitable cases. The uterine tissue is incised down to the tumour, which is shelled out by the fingers, aided by scissors or scalpel if necessary. Hajmorrhage, which would otherwise be formidable, is con- trolled by an assistant grasping the chief vessels through the broad ligaments. The raw cavity is obliterated and permanent htemostasis is secured by superimposed layers of sutures, and, lastly, the peritoneal flaps are united by a Lembert's suture. The chief anxiety is so to unite the tissues and to obliterate the cavity as to prevent the formation of a hsematoma, which would probably prove very ti'oublesome. Where this operation is successful, the uterus and its appendages are left in a functionally perfect state, and in careful hands its mor- tality does not exceed that of abdominal hyster- ectomy. Removal of the Uterine Appendages. — This operation was devised by Lawson Tait, and was gladly welcomed by the profession at a time when the alternative was the clumsy and dangerous hysterectomy with the stump of the uterus clamped in the lower angle of the ab- dominal wound. Now that an improved tech- nique has reduced the average mortality of abdominal hysterectomy to 10 or even 5 per cent, Tait's operation has fallen into disuse. Tait himself in his latter days admitted that it was useless in the soft, solitary fibroid; its effects, even when it checks haemorrhage, are too slow in cases where pressure symptoms call for relief; and at the present time surgeons are anxious to spare one or both ovaries in order to save the patient the distressing symptoms of a premature menopause. Ligation of the uterine arteries (per abdomen and per vaginam) has been suggested with the intention of lessening the blood-supply to the uterus and so starving its tumours. The opera- tion may be easy, difficult, or impossible, accord- ing to the size and position of the fibroids. The most serious objection to it is the uncertainty of the results. It may do too much or too little. In some cases the collateral circulation develops so well that the tumour flourishes un- disturbed, in other cases its vitality is so lowered that it is liable to degenerate. In no case can the ultimate result be known before operation, nor indeed for some time after. Tuberculosis of the Uterus 1. Occurs as an extension of tuberculous dis- ease from the Fallopian tubes. 2. As an infection from the vagina. 3. As part of a general tuberculosis. (1) When it occurs as an extension from the Fallopian tubes the sequence appears to be first tuberculous disease of the intestine—the mucous membrane, muscular and peritoneal coats, suffer- ing in succession. Infection of the general peri- toneum follows. Thus the bacilli obtain access to the Fallopian tubes and through them to the uterus. In these cases the fundus and corpus are earliest and chiefly involved. (2) In infection from the vagina the morbid process occurs in the cervix, and may be limited to it. (3) In general tuberculosis the uterus is said to be invaded in about 66 per cent of the cases. Tuberculosis of the uterus has been recognised in four forms, of which three appear to be a sequence, or phases of one process : {a) miliary; {b) caseous; (c) fibroid, the usual life-history of tuberculous lesions; while (d) papillary tuber- culosis seems to be a special development. In the earliest stage of uterine tuberculosis the epithelium is intact and the glands normal, the tubercle being found in isolated specks scattered in the subjacent tissues where the net- work of vessels surrounds the extremities of the glands. In a more advanced stage the uterine cavity is covered with a more or less necrotic caseous material, and below this there is tubercular tissue involving the superficial layer of the musculature and in which the typical bacilli and giant-cell formations may be found. At this stage there are sometimes multiple shallow ulcers with undermined edges in the mucous membrane. In the papillary form a definite growth occurs, usually in the cervix, growing from the mucous membrane of the arbor vitse. It pushes aside the pavement epithelium of the portio vaginalis, attains a considerable size and to the naked eye resembles epithelioma of the cervix, for which no doubt it is frequently mistaken. The symptoms of uterine tuberculosis are not pathognomonic. Menorrhagia, metrorrhagia, and discharge occur as in many other diseases, and pain is not common unless there are co- existing tubal and ovarian lesions with inflam- matory adhesions. Treatment.—The symptoms are likely to lead to curetting, and the possibility of the existence of uterine tubercle should insure microscopic examination of the scrapings. In cases where other treatment fails, removal of the involved organs is indicated. Hydatids of the Uterus.—These parasites probably gain admission by penetrating the uterine tissues from the abdomen or neighbour-