188 TYPHOID FEVER It is commoner in cases where there has been diarrhoea than where there has been constipa- tion, and in cases where pain has been com- plained of. It may occur in apparently slight, but is more common in severe, and especially in protracted cases. There may be no warning of even severe melsena; a sudden drop in temperature may precede it, or accompany it, or follow it. The fall in temperature may precede the melsena, probably occurring at the time of the escape of blood from the vessels, though this blood may not be voided for some hours later. Copious haemorrhage may occur without any remission of pyrexia, and in any case it usually soon rises again after the haemorrhage. Re- peated or copious bleedings are followed by anaemia, prostration, pallor, and quickened pulse-rate. The mortality in cases of haemorrhage has been estimated at from 30 to 50 per cent of the cases. Even when not the direct cause it is a powerful contributory cause of death, by draining away blood from the patient and predisposing to toxaemia. Mesenteric Glands may soften and burst, setting up peritonitis; recovery or death may follow. The symptoms are often indistinguish- able at the onset from those of perforation of the intestine, and probably some cases of sup- posed perforation and recovery were of this nature. Fungel records perforation of the superior mesenteric artery by a suppurating mesenteric gland. Splenic Infarctions are not very common, they may lead to abscesses which extend to the surface, and with or without bursting set up peritonitis and septicaemia. Rupture of spleen is recorded. Hypertrophy of spleen may follow typhoid. Ascites I have seen in one case; it cleared up. Appendicitis. — The cases in which a true typhoid ulcer has been found in the appendix are few, but occasionally appendicitis does occur in typhoid fever; and Hof found 8 cases of perforated appendix in 808 fatal cases. Some- times abscess occurs ai'ound the appendix, and bursts externally. There is some, though not very certain evidence, that typhoid fever may account for appendicitis occurring long afterwards. Persistent Dysenteric Diarrhaea may be a sequel of typhoid, sometimes it is due to serpiginous ulcers round the intestine. Cicatrisation of Ulcers with constriction of the gut is a rare sequela of typhoid. Liver.—A few cases of solitary abscess of liver due to bacillus coli, rarely to bacillus of Eberth, are on record, even fewer cases are known of multiple abscesses; these are of pyaemic origin from abscess elsewliere. Cases of suppurative pylephlebitis are recorded. Cholecystitis. — The bacillus coli and the specific bacillus are frequently to be found in the gall-bladder, the latter Chiari, indeed, believes rather as the rule than the exception ; it has been found in the gall-bladder as long as fourteen years after the typhoid. It may give no symptoms, but sometimes cholecystitis results and empyema of the gall-bladder, forming a large tumour with or without jaundice, which may perforate and prove fatal; three such cases have been operated upon successfully. It is believed that the bacilli of Eberth in the gall-bladder may be the starting- point of the formation of gall-stones. Jatmidice may arise in typhoid from catarrh of the bile ducts, or from toxic changes in the liver-cells of the nature of acute atrophy, or from cholecystitis or cholangitis; the strepto- coccus pyogenes and the bacillus coli have been found in the biliary ducts. Circulatory System.—Endocarditis, with the specific bacilli in the vegetations occasionally, pericarditis still less commonly occurs. The myocardium is commonly soft, friable, and pale yellow, with fatty or parenchymatous change. Extreme softening of heart muscle is rare, and even in cases in which death has been attributed to syncope, the heart fibres may show little change; some such deaths are due to intra- cardiac thrombosis or to thrombi or emboli in the coronary arteries ; some are due to extreme bloodlessness of the patient. Hoeniorrhages from the mucous membranes, haemoptysis, gingivitis, hsematoma, menorrhagia, and epistaxis may occur, and occasionally purpuric blotches in the skin. Such cases are grave, the bleeding arising from disorganisation of the blood. Thrombosis may occur in the heart, veins, or arteries. Intracardiac thrombosis may cause sudden death, and is a not uncommon source of infarcts in the viscera (Keen). Venous Thrombosis is not uncommon during convalescence, most often in the veins of the left lower limb, especially of the calf. Typhoid bacilli have been found in the walls of the vein and in the clot, and probably cause the thrombosis, but it is predisposed to by the feebleness of circulation during convalescence, and occurs mostly in cases which are not very severe, but in which a slight persistent pyrexia delays an increase of patient's diet. The symp- toms are the same as thrombosis produces apart from typhoid fever, and usually gradually clear up, but the clot may spread up into large veins, even up the inferior vena cava. Death may result from pulmonary embolism or pyrexia. Occasionally several attacks of thrombosis occur each with rigors, great pyrexia, and profuse sweats. Thrombosis may occur in the intracranial veins. Occlusion of arteries is much less common than once thought. Keen collected records of