THYROID GLAND, SURGERY OF 20 fact that death arose so frequently, either immediately from hsemorrhage during the opera- tion, or later on from some form of blood poisoning. Now, however, that both these causes of death have been well-nigh eliminated from operative surgery, the one by the invention of pressure forceps, the other by aseptic surgery and the technique of operations on the thyroid gland brought to great perfection, the thyroid is operated upon very successfully, not only in cases of necessity, but also as a matter of ex- pediency. No operation upon the thyroid, however apparently trifling it may seem to be, should ever, even now, be undertaken without special care, and every precaution being taken to bring it to a successful issue. Apart from the risk of haemorrhage and sepsis, neither of which contingencies are altogether absent, there are other special dangers both during and after operations upon the thyroid gland which cannot be ignored. The trachea, pharynx, oesophagus, pleura, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve have all been injured during the operation. Death may arise during the operation from the en- trance of air into veins, from suffocation, or from syncope. The first accident should not occur, and if every vein be securely tied with double ligatures before it is divided, and great care be taken not to injure the internal jugular vein, there is no danger to be apprehended from the entrance of air into veins. With every possible precaution death may arise during operation from suffocation or from syncope. Myxojdema or tetany has arisen, as a conse- quence, when the whole of the gland has been removed ; and even after tapping a cyst or the enucleation of an adenoma, recurrent haemor- rhage has proved fatal or placed the patient's life in danger. The commonest disease to which the thyroid gland is liable is goitre, that is to say, "an enlargement not due to inflammation nor to malignant disease." Goitre is due either to hypertrophy or to the development in the sub- stance of the gland of adenomatous growths, which may either be solid or cystic, but are generally the latter. These growths are always encapsuled. Hypertrophy of the thyroid, or parenchymatous goitre as it is perhaps more usually, though not more accurately, designated, may, though involving both lobes and reaching very large dimensions, give rise to no or to very slight inconvenience, and when this is the case there is no necessity to interfere with the condition surgically. Often, however, the patient experiences from time to time some difficulty in breathing. Sometimes this dyspnoea is very severe, comes on suddenly, and endangers life. It has proved fatal very quickly and quite unexpectedly. It may recur from time to time with little or no warning, and so make the patient's position one of great anxiety and dis- tress without ever actually endangering life. The difficulty of breathing may also be con- tinuous and progressive, so as slowly to destroy life by suff'ocation. That thyroid enlargement of any kind should cause dyspnoea is not to be wondered at when the very intimate connection between the gland and the trachea is borne in mind. The trachea is apt to be pressed upon and flattened from side to side, when both lobes are enlarged and compressed, or displaced to one or other side by enlargement of one lobe only. Whenever the trachea is encroached iipon by the pressure of a goitre, it is almost invariably flattened laterally. In those very formidable and fortunately rare cases where an enlargement of the thyroid extends behind the manubrium of the sternum and presses upon the trachea, occasionally but only rarely even in such cases, the flattening is antero-posterior and not lateral. Whether the trachea be flattened or displaced, in either case the breath- ing is liable to be more or less interfered with. The difficulty in breathing is practically always due to direct pressure, that is to say, unless the trachea be directly pressed upon you very seldom have dyspnoea. The trachea may be displaced to a considerable extent, and little or no inconvenience in breathing ever be experi- enced. Much depends upon the rapidity with which the enlargement of the thyroid and consequent pressure upon the trachea takes place. The more acute the enlargement the greater is the liability for dyspnoea to arise; and the more chronic the disease the less is it likely to give rise to difficulty in breathing- Bleeding into the substance of a parenchymatous, goitre occurs occasionally, and then the enlarge- ment is sudden and great difficulty in breathing arises, so much so as to call for surgical inter- ference to prevent the patient dying from suffocation. Inflammation seldom attacks a goitre of any kind except as a result of trau- matism. When inflammation occurs, it is pi'actically always the result of some surgical interference, such as the injection of some fluid into a parenchymatous gland or the tapping of the cyst. The inflammation may readily cause, from a rapid increase in the size of the gland,, difficulty in breathing. It may also run on to suppuration. Should suppuration result, the pus must be let out as soon as ever it i& detected. An abscess may burst into the trachea and suffocate the patient, or matter may find its way into the cellular tissue of the neck, a very serious condition, and one very difficult to treat with much prospect of success. There are certain periods of life and certain conditions of the body when a goitre is likely to enlarge rapidly. It is well known that a relation exists between the thyroid gland and the generative organs. Hence at or about the age of puberty an enlargement of a pi-eviously small goitre often causes difficulty in breathing. A great number of the parenchymatous goitres operated upon occur in young people at or