487 VISION, THE FIELD OF importance is sufficient to justify some notes on it here. In the December number of the Amiales d'oculistique for 1900, Mr. Aage A. Meisling of Copenhagen writes on this subject. His paper embodies the results of Bjerrum's former work, together with the additional results of a more recent and extensive investigation of his own on this subject. The following are the characters of the visual field in glaucoma, as quoted from the above- mentioned paper:— (1) The visual field as taken with the ordinary perimeter does not correspond with that taken by the "small white object" (Bjerrum's) test. Defects found in the field of vision by examina- tion with the ordinary perimeter are termed "absolute," while those demonstrated by the "small white object" test are termed relative. The relationship of the area over which vision is most fully preserved to that of relative defect is the point of chief characteristic importance. (2) The area of most acute vision, as also the area of relative defect, are each in contact with the blind spot, or are said to meet at the blind spot. (3) Scotomata have frequently a paracentral position. They form a characteristic arc round the macular region, either above or below, or both, the concavity being directed towards the fixation point. Scotomata never I'each beyond the blind spot toward the temporal side, but may extend to the periphery on the nasal side. (4) There are some typical fields which are of semilunar form on the temporal side of the blind spot, the blind spot being situated in the concavity of the crescent. The form of the visual field is stated to be generally chai'acteristic in glaucoma as opposed to optic atrophy, but may be simulated by fields of vision in retrobulbar neuritis, hsemorrhagic papillo-retinitis, and embolism of a branch of the central artery of the retina. Visua.1. — Relating to sight; e.g. visual acuity, visual centres, visual field, and visual purple. See Eye, Clinical Examination of ; Aphasia {Visual ApJmsia or Ataxia); Brain, Physiology ( Visual Centres); etc. ViSUS.—Light; as in such terms as visus brevior (myopia), visus nocturmis (nyctalopia). visus senilis (presbyopia), etc. Vital Statistics. Introduction 487 Population 487 Notification 488 Marriages, Births, Deaths . . . 489 Infantile Mortality . . . .492 Occupation and Mortality . . . 493 Longevity ...... 494 Tests of Health of a Community . 495 Fallacies 496 See also Notification. Vital statistics is the science of numbers ap- plied to the life-history of communities. Its significance is similar to that of the more re- cently coined word Demography—though the latter does not necessarily confine itself strictly to the study of life by statistical means. An- other term has been frequently used in recent years—"Vital and Mortal Statistics." The continued use of the word "mortal" in this connection is undesirable and objectionable. The term "vital statistics" is comprehensive and complete, as death is but the last act of life. Of the problems of life with which the science of vital statistics is concerned, population, births, marriages, sickness, and deaths possess the chief importance; and in the following sketch of the subject I shall concern myself chiefly with these. The subject naturally divides itself into two sections : the sources of information, and the information derived from these sources, and both these will require consideration. The importance of numerical standards of comparison in science increases with every in- crease of knowledge. The value of experience., founded on an accumulation of individual facts, varies greatly according to the character of the observer. As Dr. Guy has put it, "The some- times of the cautious is the often of the sanguine, the always of the empiric, and the never of the sceptic; while the numbers 1, 10, 100, and 10,000 have but one meaning for all mankind." Hence the importance of an exact numerical statement of facts. The sneering statement that statistics can be made to prove anything can only be made by one ignorant of science. In fact, nothing can be proved without their aid, though they may be so ignorantly or un- scrupulously manipulated as to appear to prove what is untrue. Instances of fallacious use of figures will be given as we proceed. An accurate statement of population forms the natural basis of all vital statistics. Thus the comparison of the number of deaths in one with the number of deaths in a second com- munity has no significance unless we know also the number living out of which these deaths occurred. Even then our knowledge would be defective without further particulars as to the proportion in each population living at diff"erent ages, and the number dying at the correspond- ing ages. For other purposes we should require to know the number of married and unmarried, the number engaged in different industries, and so on, in order that the influence of marital condition, of occupation, etc., on the prospects of life may be calculated. The first desideratum of accurate vital statistics is a censiis enumera- tion of the population at such intervals as will not cause the intervening estimates of popula- tion to be very wide of the mark. In this country a decennial census is taken, the last occurring in 1901. In the intervals the popula-