572 X-EAYS that they would have an important place in therapeutics was not until comparatively recently even suspected, and yet it is probable that they are likely to be more serviceable to mankind in the latter respect than in the former. For diagnostic purposes the use of the fluores- cent screen or of skiagraphy is employed. When the screen is to be used the room should be quite dark, hence I prefer, if possible, to do screen work at night, for the pupil is then also more dilated. Screens are sometimes enclosed in light-tight boxes which fit closely to the eyes ; these are called cryptoscopes, and they permit of the use of the screen in broad daylight; still. Fig. 16.—False teeth in oesophagus, for difficult cases, it is much better to darken the whole room. The object to be examined should be placed between the screen and the tube and as close to the black side of the screen as possible ; a little practice with the hand will soon give the operator the requisite skill, and show him how to obtain the best effect without distortion of the shadows. If the tube has a low resistance equal to about a two-inch alternative spark gap, the skin will throw a somewhat dark shadow, but if the resistance of the tube be high, the skin will be very faintly outlined, and even the bones will be transparent. For children, for the thinner parts of adults, and to bring out soft structures, a tube of low resistance should be used; for other cases a medium hard tube. By referring to the table on page 565 a good idea can be formed as to the kind of foreign body that will be visible in the tissues ; thus a fragment of glass might be seen in the wrist or hand, but might be invisible in a thicker part. A small piece of lead might, however, be located in no matter how thick a part. The exact loca- tion of foreign bodies, such as a needle or a bullet, in an extremity is most easily effected by examining say the arm from two different positions at right angles to one another, and making four marks on the skin ; these marks are made by holding the end of a probe in the direct line of the shadow of the foreign object, the light is then turned up and the position of the probe marked. Tt should be re- membered also that the nearer the foreign body is to the screen the smaller and the more defined will be its shadow. For more exact local- isation the author's appar- atus and method may be used (Turner's Medi- cal Electricity, 3rd edition, p. 344), or that of Dr. Mackenzie Davidson, who has done more than any one else to make local- isation precise and accurate (Archives of the Rontgen Ray, May 1898). Examinations of a patient may be very rapidly made by means of the screen; the extremities and the thorax present little difficulty to a practised eye ; when, however, the hip-joint or abdomen are in ques- tion it will be better to trust to photography, and in all obscure cases the screen examination should be followed by one or two photographs. The thorax should be examined both with the screen on the sternum and on the back, and the patient should be completely stripped ; the ribs, verte- bral column, and scapulae will be seen, and the heart less definitely; the pulsations of the heart can be counted and the rise and fall of the diaphragm observed. Phthisical consolida- tions throw a denser shadow than the normal lung, and give rise to a peculiar marbling and mottled appearance. Cavities betray them- selves as light areas with dark borders unless