63 TOXICOLOGY tion of temperature. Stupor and coma super- vene, and death soon follows: occasionally the mind remains clear. The temperature usually sinks towards the end, but, exceptionally, it rises and has been known to continue to rise for a short time after death. The most characteristic feature of acute phosphorus poisoning is altered metabolism, shown by diminished oxidation of tissues and consequent modification of the excretory pro- ducts. This is specially the case as regards the nitrogenous constituents of the urine : the urea is diminished, the deficiency being compensated by an excess of ammonia. Leucin and tyrosin are occasionally present in the urine. The altered metabolism is further shown by the presence of non-nitrogenous bodies in the urine, such as sarcolactic acid and, exceptionally, sugar. Treatment.—Empty and wash out the stomach either with warm water or with a 0"1 per cent solution of potassium permanganate. Turpen- tine may be given in half-drachm doses. If diarrhoea does not occur, repeated movements of the bowels should be procured, as phosphorus may remain unoxidised in the intestines and may be absorbed ; castor oil or other fatty matter should not be given, as fat is a solvent for phos- phorus and would promote its absorption. Fatal Dose.—The smallest recorded fatal dose is a grain and a half ; recovery has followed six grains. Death has occurred under twelve hours ; it is usually delayed from the second or fourth day to a week. Fost-mortem Appearances. — If death occurs early, the cavities of the body, when opened, may yield the odour of phosphorus, and occasionally phosphorescence has been observed. The mucous membrane of the stomach and duodenum is usually yellowish or greyish-white; limited ecchymoses and erosions may be present. The rest of the intestinal tract shows no changes except that small ecchymoses may be seen; exceptionally, the intestines have been found inflamed. The heart and kidneys show signs of fatty degeneration and the spleen is usually en- larged. The principal post-mortem sign of phosphorus poisoning is seen in the liver, which is large, of a yellow colour, and of doughy con- sistence. This appearance is due to the presence of a large amount of fat which replaces the normal liver tissue. In some respects acute phosphorus poisoning resembles acute yellow atrophy of the liver; both are of toxic origin, the latter being probably caused by the action of micro-organisms. Chronic phosphorus poisoning is caused by inhalation of the fumes of phosphorus, which causes necrosis of the upper and lower jaw-bones. The phosphorus vapour acts on any bone, the periosteum of which is exposed ; hence it attacks the jaws of work-people in lucifer-match manu- factories, whose teeth are defective, obtaining access to the bone by way of the decayed teeth. If the teeth are sound, the vapour cannot reach the bone. Iodine, iodoform and potassium iodide have each, on rare occasions, caused death,—mostly from the medicinal use of these substances. Bromine has, on two or three occasions, caused fatal poisoning from being swallowed in the liquid form, and also from inhalation of bromine vapours. One or two cases of poisoning by potassium bromide are recorded, one being fatal. Chlorine has caused death to work-people in chemical and bleach-works. The severe dyspnoea which the inhalation of chlorine produces is best relieved by putting the patient in a steam-tent. Boric Acid has caused death by the injection of a 5 per cent solution into the pleural sac, after evacuation of an empytema, by washing out the stomach, and by the use of a vaginal tampon of boric acid. The symptoms are de- pression, erysipelatous eruption on the face, vomiting, diarrhoea, and collapse. Skin erup- tions, such as erythema and urticaria, on various parts of the body, are the most constant signs of boric poisoning. Gaseous Poisons Sulphuretted Hydrogen.—With the excep tion of accidents in chemical works, poisoning by sulphuretted hydrogen generally results from the inhalation of sewer-gas. When the percen- tage of sulphuretted hydrogen is limited, the symptoms produced are a sensation of " catching of the breath," a small pulse, oppression in the head, vomiting, dizziness, and probably diarrhoea, with great muscular prostration; with a large percentage, asphyxia and heart-failure, cyanosis, delirium and convulsions may occur, and very rapid death. Treatment.—Artificial respiration, with friction over the cardiac area and along the limbs, and the application of external warmth, are helpful. If the surface is hot, drenching with cold water may be tried. Post-mortem Appearances. — Putrefactive changes usually quickly follow death ; but this is not always the case. Cadaveric rigidity has been noticed to be well marked. The blood is fluid and dark in colour, consequently the viscera are darker than usual. The muscles sometimes have a bluish tint. The lungs will probably be oedematous. Carbon Dioxide.—Death from this gas may occur in coal-mines, after an explosion which gives rise to " choke damp," in deep wells and excavations, in brewers' vats, and in the neigh- bourhood of lime- and brick-kilns. The usual method of testing the respirableness of air sus- pected to be contaminated with carbon dioxide is to lower a lighted candle into it: if the candle goes out the atmosphere is poisonous; if it continues to burn, however, the air is not necessarily harm- less, as a candle will burn in an atmosphere that is dangerous to life.