TUBERCULOSIS 120 and he also showed that when once stained the organism was able to resist the decolorising power of acids, even in strong solution, e.g. 33 per cent nitric acid or 25 per cent sulphuric acid, and even after exposure to these strengths for so long a period as a quarter of an hour. The stain now generally employed is basic fuchsin (rosanilin hydrochlorate). The property of resistance to the decolorising action of acid, or "acid-fastness," was supposed by Ehrlich to be produced by some substance surrounding the bacillus, forming a covering permeable for anilin water, alkalies, carbolic acid, etc., but impermeable for acids. It is not possessed by very young cultures, as shown by Klein and later by Marmorek. Borrel, by pro- tracted action of warm xylol on tubercle bacilli, extracted a substance resistant to acids and alcohol after treatment with stain. The tubercle bacilli had lost these qualities, but could still produce tubercles. Unna and Klebs, de Schweinitz and Dorset, supposed that acid-fastness depended on the presence of fat in the bacillus, and there is no doubt that fatty acids, at any rate, are important constituents of the bacillus. Aronson (1898) has, however, shown that the body which gives the acid-fast character is of the nature of a wax, and this view has been confirmed by Bulloch and M'Leod. These observers removed the substance by solvents of wax, and found that fat, fatty acids, and wax constituted 43'7 per cent by weight of the dried tubercle bacilli. The changes which go on during the staining procedure may now be explained. When the fuchsin-stained bacilli are immersed, for example, in sulphuric acid, the mono-acid rosanilin salts are converted into the soluble brownish tri-acid compounds which diffuse out of bacteria, which are not acid-fast. In the case of tubercle bacilli this change takes longer than in the case of other bacteria, not setting in, apparently, until some change in the permeability of the bacillus has been induced by the acid. The subsequent washing in water leads to a decomposition of the tri-acid compound with re-formation of mono- acid fuchsin, and the bacilli again appear red, as the fuchsin does not diffuse out (Bulloch). A similar resistance is also manifested towards organic acids such as acetic, formic, oxalic, tartaric, lactic, and picric acids. Recently other organisms, morphologically very similar to the tubercle bacillus, have been discovered which are also "acid-fast," and in some of these a distinction is made by their being less resistant to decolorisation by alcohol than the tubercle bacillus. In the case of others, however, no known staining method differentiates from tubercle., and diagnosis from biological characteristics must be had re- course to. With a view to demonstrating the bacilli in sputum, for example, it is well to select that first expelled in the morning. Pour it out on a flat dish, and pick out any small yellow caseous points, or, failing these, the purulent-looking parts. With a sterilised platinum loop place the selected material on an absolutely clean cover-glass (No. 1 thickness preferably), and smear in a thin layer over it; or better, super- impose another cover-glass, press gently so as to secure a thin film, and slide apart. It is well to place the cover-glass between clear filter paper before pressing, so that any excess of sputum soaks into the paper, which should be at once destroyed by burning. For subsequent procedure refer to article on "Post-mortem Methods," vol. viii. p. 216. In the Pathological Departmeat of the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, in the routine method of examining tuberculous sputum and discharges, the periods of exposure to alcohol and acid are one minute and two minutes respectively. Biological Characters of the Tubercle Bacillus.—As the bacilli of human, bovine, and avian tuberculosis in cultivation show certain fairly constant differences, which justify their classification as distinct varieties or races, they must be described separately; nevertheless, at a later stage data will be brought forward which indicate, contrary to Koch's rather arbitrary dictum, that there is a close relationship between these varieties—at least, between the two first, and that the apparent differences most probably depend on modifications of one original organism. Human Bacillus.—On inspissated blood serum at a temperature of 35° to 37° C, the colonies appear from the tenth to the fourteenth day as discrete, dry, scaly growths, greyish in colour. These gradually extend and coalesce so as to form a thin, wrinkled layer on the surface of the medium, reaching full development in six or seven weeks. In subcultures the growth tends to become more voluminous, and occasionally becomes brownish in colour in old cultures. The bacillus is non-motile. It is aerobic and facultative anaerobic. While its optimum temperature for growth is 35° to 37° C. (98° to 101° F.), it can develop from 28° to 42° C. Its thermal death-point is about 70° C. It is still doubtful whether it has a sapro- phytic stage of existence, and this question will lae discussed later in considering the relationship of the tubercle bacillus to the streptothrices. Up to the present time it has been looked on as —in natural surroundings—strictly parasitic, developing only in the tissues of tuberculous animals. It grows well on inspissated blood serum, and this medium is used in separating it in pure culture. Subcultures grow well on peptone agar to which 5 to 8 per cent of pure glycerine has been added, also on veal broth containing 5 per cent glycerine (Nocard and Roux), or on