URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 306 such as decomposing urine, for their formation. They are usually amorphous, soft, crumbly, and almost colourless. They are readily recognised by the fact that they dissolve readily in acids with effervescence, whereas those composed of calcium oxalate only dissolve with elfervescence after incineration. Cystin calculi are decidedly rare, because cystinuria is a very rare condition, but on the other hand a large proportion of cystinuric indi- viduals form calculi at some period. Not in- frequently a succession of small calculi is passed by such patients, giving rise to a series of more or less serious troubles, but in other instances such stones attain to a large size. The nature of such calculi is usually easy of recognition. They are pale in colour, usually have a granular surface, and on section appear crystalline and very slightly yellow-tinted. When kept for long periods they tend to acquire a green tint. Cystin stones leave practically no residue on combustion, and burn with a bluish flame. A fragment of the calculus is readily dissolved by ammonia, and on standing the ammoniacal solution deposits the characteristic hexagonal colourless plates similar to those of which cystin sediments are composed. To obtain good crystals it is advisable to use dilute ammonia as a solvent. Xanthin calculi are very much rarer still, and only six or seven examples have been recorded. The first of these was described by Marcet in the early years of the last century. They have for the most part occurred in children. They are usually smooth, of a brownish-cinnamon tint, are moderately hard, and a polish may be imparted to the surface by rubbing. Such calculi leave practically no residue on combustion. When heated with nitric acid upon a porcelain dish the material leaves a yelloiv residue, which when caustic soda is added assumes a red colour and on warming a purple tint. This is the characteristic xanthin reaction which must be distinguished from the murexide reaction of uric acid. Cholesterin Calculi.—It would seem probable that calculi rich in cholesterin removed or passed from the urinary bladder have usually been gall- stones which have found their way thither through a fistulous passage. Some have un- doubtedly been of this nature, being faceted and rich in bile-pigment, and associated with the passage of bile in the urine of patients who were not jaundiced. However, no such origin can be ascribed to a remarkable stone examined by Horbaczewski, which contained 95-87 per cent of cholesterin. It had been removed by supra-pubic lithotomy from the bladder of a little girl aged six, and had been regarded as a cystin stone. The cal- culus weighed no less than 25'4 grammes. Indigo Calculi.—Small renal calculi consisting of indigo have been described by two or three observers, the earliest example by W. M. Ord. Urostealith. — Under this name are classed certain very rare concretions found in the bladder, which are soft and elastic in the moist state, but friable when dried. They burn with a luminous flame, and in burning emit an aromatic odour. In some specimens analysed by Horbaczewski a large proportion of the organic material was soluble in ether, and the residue from the ethereal extract consisted of fats and fatty acids, with traces of cholesterin. The origin and mode of formation of such calculi are quite unknown. XVIII. Drugs, Poisons, Accidental Con- stituents OF Urine In this final section it will be necessary to speak of certain substances met with in the urine which in themselves are of no clinical importance, but which it is necessary to recog- nise if only for this reason. Various drugs and also poisonous substances appear in the urine either unaltered, or after undergoing changes in the body, and influence its properties. Some of these may be recognised by the odour which they impart, such as copaiba and turpen- tine, which latter when ingested causes the urine to smell of violets. Others again influence the colour, as for in- stance santonin, which imparts a peculiar bright yellow tint which changes to a beautiful pink wuth excess of an alkali. Chrysophanic acid, too, which is contained in rhubarb and senna and appears in the urine when they are taken, yields a pink tint with alkalies. The urine of patients taking salicylates sometimes has a brown colour, and may have a slight reducing action upon Fehling's solution. The presence of salicylates is easily detected by the purple colour which appears in the path of a falling drop of ferric chloride solution. This test is best performed with diluted urine, as otherwise the purple colour is apt to be masked by pre- cipitated phosphates. The peculiar greenish-brown colour of carbol- uria is ascribed by Baumann and others to the presence of hydroquinone. Phenol cannot be detected in such urines by its colour test with ferric chloride, as it exists in them in the form of an aromatic sulphate. The presence of an excessive amount of ethereal sulphate serves as a useful test in such cases, for the urine gives little or even no precipitate with a barium salt, whereas, after boiling with hydrochloric acid a copious precipitation of barium sulphate will be obtained. Carboluria occurs after the administration of phenol by the mouth, or after the application of carbolic compresses, especially to children. It is also often seen after the administration of salol.