UTERUS, DISPLACEMENTS OF THE 332 of the tumour coming through the external os, and if a sound be passed the uterus will be found in its proper place. Vaginal and vulvar tu?nours may simulate prolapsus uteri, but can always be differentiated. In the latter the external os can always be discerned at the apex of the protrusion. The only other condition in which this obtains is hypertrophic elongation of the cervix. Cystocele and rectocele without accompanying prolapse of the uterus can be diagnosed by the passage of a sound into the bladder in cystocele, a finger into the rectum in rectocele, and by ascertaining bimanually that the uterus is in its normal position. Treatment. — Reduction. — Reduction as a rule is accompanied with no difficulty. The structures can usually be replaced with ease when the patient assumes the recumbent posi- tion and the order of ascent is the reverse of the order of descent. The posterior vaginal wall is first reduced, then the uterus, and lastly the anterior vaginal wall and bladder. In old- standing severe cases the prolapsed parts may be so congested and swollen that reduction cannot be effected without some preliminary treatment, taking the form of rest, hot applica- tions, etc. The presence of intra-peritoneal adhesions may prevent reduction. Retention. — Keeping in mind the factors which bring about this condition, our aim in treatment with a view to attaining permanent retention must be directed (1) to diminishing intra-abdominal pressure, and (2) to strengthen- ing the pelvic floor so that it may successfully resist the pressure brought to bear on it. (1) Diminishing Intra-abdominal Pressure.— This is best accomplished by rest. When a woman with a prolapsed uterus lies down the pressure is so diminished that the protrusion slides back or can be pushed back into the pelvis, and as long as she remains in this position there is little tendency for it to descend. Rest also enables the pelvic floor to regain its tone. Consequently a patient with this affec- tion should rest as much as possible. Especially is it applicable in the puerperium in those who have any tendency to descent of the pelvic floor. But rest, however useful, is not sufficient to cure; even in the slightest and most favourable case we must adopt some plan of treatment whereby we strengthen the pelvic floor. (2) Strengthening the Pelvic Floor—Minor Measures.—(a) Tampons. After the displace- ment has been reduced the vagina may be packed with cotton-wool soaked in the following mixture — R Boroglyceride §ss., Aluminis 3j., Glycerinum ad 3xvj. The boro- glyceride keeps the tampon from becoming foitid, and along with the glycerine reduces the congestion of the parts, while the alum helps to tone up the relaxed structures. Tampons are serviceable in old women who are too feeble to undergo operative treatment, and in many cases are sufficient to keep up the protrusion. They require to be renewed at least once a week. Ichthyol may take the place of boro- glyceride. Iodoform gauze or marine lint also makes an excellent pack. (b) Pessaries are useful in cases in which the descent is slight and the perineum has not lost its retentive power, and in women who from age and general conditions are unsuitable for operation. In cases of slight descent of the anterior vaginal wall the ring pessary, with perforated diaphragm, will be found most useful. The ring pessary strengthens the pelvic floor more than one after the Hodge pattern, while the diaphragm prevents the cystocele from slipping down. In most instances an efficient sacral segment is necessary for the retention of the instrument, but in exceptional cases one will find that this is not essential. When the perineum is deficient and a pessary refuses to stay in, the addition of a perineal pad attached by strings to a waistband may secure its retention and make the patient comfortable. An instrument we have found very successful, even in cases of complete pro- lapse, is Simpson's disc and stem pessary. "The herniation," says Simpson, "can some- times be prevented by making the patient wear a disc and stem pessary; the stem projecting from the lower surface of the disc lies between the labia. The disc may be circular, but is better elongated from side to side, so as to keep the walls of the vagina extended transversely. The patient learns easily to introduce such a pessary as she lies on her back, by passing in first the one side through the vaginal orifice and then the other, as a button is passed edge- wise through a buttonhole. She removes it from time to time when going to bed by laying hold of the stem with the finger and thumb of one hand while the forefinger of the other hand lays hold of one edge of the disc and presses it out. She can thus secure the cleanliness of the instrument, and if need be she can douche the vaginal cavity in the interval of removal." When the above-mentioned pessaries fail, stem pessaries made of vulcanite or soft rubber with cup-shaped extremities attached by bands to a waistbelt, may be tried. For example Cutter's, or Leith-Napier's. We have found the latter's instrument the best of this class. Operative Measures. — Before describing some of the numerous operations which have been devised for prolapse it will be well to mention those we consider suitable for cases met with respectively under the first, second, or thii-d stage of descent respectively. 1st. In the earliest stage, when the lower end of the anterior vaginal wall appears at the vulva, the uterus being anteverted and the supporting segment intact, the operation indi-