UNDULA^'T FEVER 233 indefinite symptoms is difficult to settle, but the evidence collected on this subject points to the fact that from ten to sixteen days is the usual incubation period. In the cases of accidental inoculation with the mic. Melitensis, of which several have now occurred, the incubation period has varied from five to fifteen days. Xot infectious.—In spite of the popularity of the recent mosquito theory of its origin, the writer is convinced that it is not directly com- municable from the sick to the healthy. Iraraunity.—One attack usually confers im- munity, just as is the case with most specific diseases. There has been much controversy on this subject, but the evidence obtainable since more accurate diagnosis has been established practically puts this fact beyond any doubt. Prophylaxis.—Avoidance of the infective areas during the months of the year when this disease is most prevalent. Attendance to the ordinary hygiene of every- day life would prevent many attacks if the writer's theory with regard to the distribution of this organism is correct. The histories of such a large proportion of these cases give some hygienic indiscretion prior to the attack, the commonest being (a ) getting a chill after taking violent exercise ; (h) sleeping in cotton garments, which become saturated with perspiration; (c) being out in a hot sun all day, and returning in the cool of the evening without additional wraps ; (d) over-fatigue, followed by sitting about in cool draughts : {e) drill or other hard work on an empty stomach ; and many other indiscretions of a like nature. Better sanitation of most of these localities is urgently required, as tending to improve the general health, but people living under what are apparently perfect sanitary conditions are stUl attacked by this disease. Pathology.—Morhid Anatomy.—The oppor- tunities for working out the pathology of this disease, in spite of its frequency in the endemic areas, are very few. This is owing partly to the fact of its very low mortality. In the cases that die during an acute attack of fever the only morbid changes noticed were confined to the following organs :— Heart.—Very pale and flabby. The walls thinned, and showing marked degeneration of the muscle fibre : no endocarditis or pericarditis ; in some cases the heart walls become so thinned as to be almost transparent when held up to the light. Lungs.—Usually a little passive congestion of the bases, secondary to a failing heart. Liver.—Congested and increased in weight. Average weight -58 oz. Spleen.—Much enlarged, very soft, and in some cases the spleen pulp quite diffluent, running out like semi-fluid blood when the capsule is cut into. The capsule of the spleen is thickened and tough. Averase weight 19 oz. Brain. — Usually congested, with slight in- crease of fluid in ventricles, but often quite normal in appearance. Kidneys.—Sometimes slightly congested, but usually normal in appearance and weight. Alimentary Canal.—Has always been found quite normal from mouth to anus in the cases examined by the writer. In cases which die late in the disease, usually from heart-faUure or intercurrent diseases, there are the signs of long-continued toxic irritation of the tissues. The liver and spleen, but more especially the latter, are both enlarged, but firm to the touch and with excess of fibrous tissue in them. The heart is usually very pale, with thin walls and often dilatation of the cavities. 2Iicroscopic Changes.—The only changes that have been observed microscopically, apart from those produced by long-continued toxic irritation of the tissues, have been in the spleen, liver, and kidneys. Sections of the^spleen show an increase in the lymphoid tissue, with enormous numbers of single micrococci scattered through the section. The liver cells are foimd to be in a condition of cloudy swelling, and show granular degeneration of their protoplasm. The kidneys show the same changes of granular degeneration of the glomeruli. Bactebiologt.—The micrococcus Melitensis is a minute, oval-shaped coccus, occurring gener- ally singly, sometimes in pairs, but never form- ing chains. It measures about 33 mm. in dia- meter (Bruce), and when examined in the hanging drop shows rapid movement. Gordon states that it is provided with from one to fotir flageUse, and the character of its circular move- ments in the hanging drop certainly suggests the possession of flageUse. It stains well with the more powerful of the aniline dyes, but very rapidly loses its stain. It does not stain with Gram's method. Growth Characteristics.—It is a very slowly growing organism, usually taking four days to make its appearance on suitable media. The degree of alkahnity of the media employed is a matter of great importance to this organism. It grows best on gelatine, agar, or in bouillon of an alkahnity of -10 (Eyre s method) ; it can be educated to grow on media of a greater alkalinity, on neutral media, and even on faintly acid media, but the growths are feeble and take many days to appear. Many disappointments will be met with in working with this organism, if this extreme susceptibility to the reaction of media is not constantly borne in mind. The shortest time in which the writer has been able to obtain a growth was forty-sis hours, on agar of a very suitable alkalinity inoctdated direct from the spleen. In liquid media slight tur- bidity shows about the fourth day, the meditun never becoming more than slightly opaque, as the growth settles to the bottom of the tube in a thin flaky deposit. 2So pellicle is formed.