58 TOXICOLOGY cooler part of the tube in the form of crystals of arsenious oxide, which may be tested with ammonia-nitrate of silver as previously described. A less delicate method of demonstrating the presence of arsenic in the gas coming from the flask is to ignite it as it issues from the end of the combustion tube, and to allow the flame to play on a cold porcelain surface such as a crucible lid; the dissociated arsenic deposits on the porcelain as a brownish, glistening film which is freely soluble in a solution of bleaching powder, and but only slightly so in ammonium sulphide. Arsenic that is in combination with organic matter requires to be separated from it before it is added to a Marsh-apparatus, as almost all organic fluids lead to the formation of froth on the surface of the contents of the flask which mounts up to the exit-tube and spoils the results. Antimony.—The preparation of antimony that is most commonly encountered as a poison is the potassio-tartrate, or tartar-emetic. This salt is very soluble in water. Symptoms.—Immediately after a poisonous dose of tartar-emetic is swallowed, an astringent, metallic taste is experienced, followed in a few minutes by a hot, burning pain from the mouth down to the stomach, along with a sensation of constriction in the throat. Violent vomiting then occurs, and shortly after diarrhoea. Ex- ceptionally, blood may be present in the vomit. Cases have occurred in which vomiting was delayed for an hour after the poison was swallowed. The depressant effects of tartar- emetic soon show themselves: the pulse is small, frequent, and of low tension, the surface is cold and clammy, and may be cyanosed; the breathing is slow and laboured, and the patient is profoundly collapsed, and is probably unconscious. The urine is almost entirely suppressed. Clonic spasms may precede death. Treatment.—The poison usually causes vomit- ing ; if not, the tube may be used to wash out the stomach; or, probably, it will suffice to tickle the throat with a feather in order to induce emesis. Tannin, or some substance containing it, such as stewed tea, should then be given so as to form an insoluble compound with any of the poison that remains in the stomach. Unnecessary vomiting should be checked by ice and morphine. External warmth and stimulants will be needed. Fatal Dose.-—Yi\e to ten grains would prob- ably be a fatal dose. Death has been caused by a grain and a half following a like dose taken twenty-four hours previously. Recovery has followed two hundred grains. Death may occur in from a few hours to several days. After a large dose, either a speedily fatal issue from exhaustion may be expected, or an almost equally speedy recovery. Antimony Chloride, or butter of antimony, acts as a corrosive. Post-mortem Ajjpearances.—After a fatal dose of tartar-emetic the mucous membrane of the stomach may be inflamed and ecchymosed; it is covered with slimy mucus and is sometimes eroded. The duodenum may participate in these appearances. In some instances the gastric mucous membrane is not inflamed, but presents a pale-yellowish appearance. The liver and kidneys may show fatty changes. The appearances produced by antimony chloride ai'e those of a corrosive. Tests.—Eeinsch's method, as described under " Arsenic," yields an amorphous deposit in the sublimation tube, which is readily distinguish- able from the crystalline sublimate of arsenic. If the antimonial sublimate is dissolved in a drop of a solution of tartaric acid, and then treated with a drop or two of sulphuretted hydrogen water, an orange-coloured precipitate of antimonious sulphide is produced. Marsh's method {see "Arsenic") may also be used. The deposit in the tube occurs nearer to the Bunsen flame, often on both sides of it. The deposit is dead black (not brown as with arsenic), or, if there be much antimony present, it may have a metallic lustre like mercury. On applying heat the deposit is volatilised with difficulty, and if the tube be filled with air, it comes down on a cooler part of the tube as a white, non-crystalline, amorphous cloud, which may be dissolved in a solution of tartaric acid and tested with sulphuretted hydrogen water, as with the sublimate obtained by Eeinsch's test. Mercury. — The chief poisonous salt of mercury is the mercuric chloride; occasionally the red and the white precipitates give rise to poisoning. Symptoms of Acute Mercurial Poisoning.— Immediately after a poisonous dose of the perchloride has been swallowed, an acrid metallic taste, accompanied by a sensation of constriction in the throat, is experienced. A burning sensation quickly develops, which spreads from the mouth, down the oesophagus, to the stomach, and then radiates over the abdomen. Vomiting of white slimy masses, frequently tinged with blood, quickly follows. Diarrhoea, with severe tenesmus and colicky pain in the abdomen, then occurs, the motions being watery, often blood-stained, and mixed with shreds of mucous membrane. The mucous membrane of the mouth and pharynx is white and swollen; the voice is hoarse, and the breathing difficult and noisy. The patient is profoundly collapsed; the surface is cold, clammy, and cyanosed; the pulse is small and irregular; the urine is suppressed, any that may come away contains albumin. There may be convulsions. If the patient survives, saliva- tion will probably set in twenty-four or more hours after the poison was swallowed. Strong solutions of corrosive sublimate ap-