TYPHOID FEVER 192 sometimes the lower jaw ; abscess may form in the medulla or beneath the periosteum. The streptococcus or staphylococcus is most often found in the pus, but Eberth's bacillus has been discovered in it, even years after the typhoid fever. Necrosis, usually in the bones of the lower limb, may occur, attributed by Keen to throm- bosis of the veins in the cavernous tissue of bones. Arthritis may occur, sometimes rheumatic, affecting several joints, or septic, with other evidences of pysemia. It may also arise from spread of osteitis into a jomt, and there may be suppuration. Keen describes also a monar- thritis most common in the lower limb, especially the hip; it usually arises spontaneously, some- times from periostitis or osteitis extending into the joint. It comes on during convalescence insidiously with subacute synovitis; it usually subsides, but may go on to extreme distention of the joint and even to dislocation, especially in the hip in children. Abscesses may form during typhoid fever in any part of the body—in the soft tissues, serous cavities, bones or joints, and even in the thyroid gland. Subphrenic abscess is recorded resulting from typhoid ulcers in the intestine, or from peritonitis or suppuration of mesenteric glands or from cholecystitis. The abscesses are mostly due to other pyogenic organisms than the typhoid bacillus, and in such cases must be looked on as of septic origin, but in the pus of some abscesses occurring in typhoid fever the specific bacillus may be found, especially in abscesses connected with the bones. Pyaemia.—Cases of undoubted pyaemia, setting in with rigors, sweats, and other characteristic symptoms, occur, and with metastatic abscesses as a result of typhoid. And many of the dangers and complications of the disease are due to pyaemic infection, and not to the typhoid poison. Marasmus.—Cases occur in which the patient, though taking food well, wastes after typhoid fever from non-assimilation. This is supposed to be due to atrophy of the ileum and the mesenteric glands ; the patient may die after some months or live for years in this wasted state. Obesity sometimes results after typhoid. Anasarca may occur during typhoid without albuminuria. Relapse.—Authors differ as to what consti- tutes a relapse. Murchison insists on a fresh eruption and fresh bout of pyrexia unaccounted for by any local conditions. Osier writes that two of the three symptoms—step-like ascent of temperature, roseolaand enlarged spleen—should be present to justify the diagnosis. Biit there seems no reason to require for a relapse symp- toms not considered essential for a primary attack, and just as the latter may occur without roseola, ascertainable enlargement of spleen or step-like pyrexia (or indeed any pyrexia at all), so may the relapse. A relapse may be manifested by a period of pyrexia with diarrhoea, tympanites, headache, or other grouping of symptoms such as sometimes constitute a primary attack, and the diagnosis of such a relapse is always aided by the fact of its succeeding an attack of typhoid fever. There is ambiguity also as to the time of occurrence of a relapse. Murchison speaks of it as occurring after convalescence is fully estab- lished, but opinions may differ as to what indi- cates complete convalescence. Osier's dictum that a relapse can only take place after complete defervescence must not be taken too strictly if it implies that the temperatiire has been absolutely normal before it occurs, for what can hardly be denied the name of a true relapse may occur some days after all symptoms of the first attack have subsided, except that the temperature has on some days slightly exceeded the normal. Irvine believed " intercurrent relapses" may occur without any apyretic interval, and Murchison regarded it as possible. It is certain there may be no long apyretic interval between attack and relapse; cases are recorded after forty- eight hours' interval, and if so why not after twenty-four hours'? And one must admit a relapse may occur immediately after the subsi- dence of the primary attack; but this subsidence must not be judged only by temporary fall in the temperature, a temporary drop of tempera- ture often occurring about the twentieth day with no amelioration of symptoms. A relapse may be defined as a re-access of continued pyrexia, and of other symptoms of typhoid fever, coming on immediately or some days after the subsidence of the pyrexia and symptoms of the pi'imary attack (or previous relapse). This definition may perhaps allow some lati- tude, but not more than the varying phenomena of typhoid and the insufficiency of our knowledge require. Frequency of Relapse.— Estimates vary from 3 to 18 per cent of cases, partly owing to the discrepancy in what is regarded as a relapse, partly owing to the varying nature of the epi- demic. In some years the frequency of relapse is much greater than in others. Among 6879 cases treated in the hospitals of the Metropolitan Asylums Board, the relapses averaged 8 per cent. Relapse is said to be least common in chil- dren ; to be predisposed to by constipation. Early administration of solid food is generally believed to predispose to relapse, and though this is denied, one sees a fresh access of fever, diarrhoea, quick pulse, tympanites, and general symptoms after giving solid food, too often to ascribe to mere coincidence. Such is specially the case where there has been constipation when