FEVER 205 TYPHUS This feature of the eruption is responsible for one of the synonyms of the disease, petechial fever. The dark-stained, purple to brown, colour of the rash has caused it often to be spoken of as the "mulberry rash of typhus." As a whole, it is fairly distributed over the body except the face. In cases where it is scanty it is best seen on the trunk, and it may be most marked on the back. The appearance of the patient is worthy of attention. The face becomes bloated, the features seem to lose their distinctness, and the expression is that of a drunken man. The eyes are remarkable in that the conjunctivse are deeply injected and the pupils small, and in severe cases exceedingly contracted. As regards the alimentary system the tongue is dry and brown. As the fever goes on it is apt to show transverse fissures and crusts of dried blood and sordes, which may also be seen on the lips and teeth. In severe cases the tongue seems to dry up into a shrivelled black ball, exactly resembling the tongue of a parrot. Vomiting at this stage is not common, but the digestive power is very poor. Constipation is the rule, but occasionally diarrhoea may be severe enough to assume the importance of a complication. The temperature remains at a high level, read- ings of 104° being quite common, and there is little or no morning remission, the chart at first in this stage showing an almost straight line. In cases, however, which are probably running to a favourable termination, there is often a gradual decline of the temperature, sometimes almost imperceptible, in the second week. About the eleventh day there is occasionally a fall of one or two degrees, or even more—a suggestion, as it were, of a false crisis. Hyper- pyrexia is uncommon, except in fatal cases, when it occasionally immediately precedes death. The pulse is accelerated, as a rule, in proportion to the temperature. It usually ranges from 100 to 120, the latter figure being, of course, much exceeded in very bad cases. It has no special characteristic, and has not the marked dicrotism so common in enteric, but is apt to fail towards the end of the second week. The first sound of the heart as heard at the base soon gets faint, and in bad cases disappears altogether. The respiration is invariably rapid, most adult cases breathing 30 to the minute. In the second week of the fever, when there is nearly always more or less hypostatic congestion at the bases, respirations of 40 are quite com- mon. The urine nearly always contains albumin, and has the usual characteristics of fever urine, being scanty and high-coloured. During the first week the amount of urea is much increased. The so-called diazo reaction of Ehrlich is given by practically every case of typhus at the height of the disease. The spleen is invariably much enlarged, often indeed palpable, and this condi- tion is usually appreciable at a much earlier period than is the case in enteric fever. But it is the nervous symptoms of typhus which are the most important and characteristic. The whole nervous system seems thoroughly poisoned. The clouded condition of the mental faculties has given the fever its name. Even the mildest cases suff'er from deafness and mental confusion. Delirium is almost invariable and is of two kinds—the so-called "delirium ferox," which comes on about the seventh or eighth day, when the patient may require several strong men to control him, and has to be strapped to his bed, and more commonly the low, muttering delirium which few patients escape. Insomnia suffi- ciently marked to requii-e treatment occurs in about half the number of adult patients. If the patient is allowed to be sleepless for more than one night the condition may become intractable and may turn the scale against recovery. Coma often precedes death, and is usually of the waking variety, the "coma vigil," which must always be regarded as of fatal prognosis. The grave condition of the nervous system is further shown by subsultus of the tendons, and in severe cases by carphology or picking at the bedclothes. Occasionally there is twitching also of the corner of the mouth or of the whole face. The organic reflexes are also interfered with. There may be incontinence of both urine and fjEceSj and frequently the incontinence of urine may be really due to retention, the over- flow of a distended bladder escaping into the bed. Even with the most careful nursing bed- sores sometimes occur, the trophic functions of the nervous system suffering with the rest. The headache which was so trying to the patient in the first few days of his illness does not usually trouble him much in the period of advance. It, as a rule, disappears when the delirium begins. By about the twelfth day of his fever the patient may be regarded as entering the critical stage. He is at this period usually at the very worst. The acute toxaemia and the prolonged and severe pyrexia have thoroughly prostrated him. He lies absolutely helpless, passing his evacuations under him, and usually totally unconscious of his surroundings. The question now is will he recover or not 1 Fortunately, if he has been judiciously treated and carefully nursed, even when he is looking his very worst, he has still a very fair chance of recovery. But, on the other hand, should he have been over or under stimulated, should he have not been given sufficient sleep, above all, if he has been alco- holic, his chances are very poor. If death supervenes, as in such cases too often occurs, the temperature at this stage of his illness shows signs of rising rather than falling, he may suffer from cold, clammy perspirations, or he may fall into coma before the end comes. In other cases the enfeebled heart cannot stand, as it were, the shock of the crisis, and as the temperature falls the pulse-rate increases, and