UTERUS, INFLAMMATIONS OF THE 348 bimanual examination of the uterus, when its small size will be noticed. If the sound is used, it will be found to go into the uterus only for a distance of 2, or it may be only 1J inches. The prognosis as regards the possibility of a patient with superinvolution becoming again pregnant is decidedly unfavourable, but should always be very guarded. The writer has had under his care a patient whose uterine cavity was less than If inches in length, and who had not menstruated for more than one day at a time, and for months not at all, who was subsequently delivered of a healthy child at term. Treatment.—This is very unsatisfactory. The galvanic stem pessary introduced by Sir J. Y. Simpson for stimulating the atrophic uterus to further growth probably does no good, and its use is not free from danger. A more rational and safer treatment is the direct application of electricity by means of one pole inside the uterus, the other over the ab- dominal wall. IV. Non-Malignant Tumours of the Uterus Fibroids 348 Classifications ..... 348 Symptoms ..... 350 Complications . . . . .351 Degenerations ..... 352 A. True 353 B. Transition to other Growths . 354 C. Cystic Changes in Fibroids . 354 Indications for Operation . . 354 Fibro-Cystic 355 Polypi of the Uterus .... 355 Fibroid 356 Mucous ...... 356 Malignant, etc. .... 357 Adeno-Myomata ..... 357 Differential Diagnosis . . . 357 Treatment ...... 360 Medical 360 Electrolysis ..... 360 Surgical ...... 360 (a) Vaginal. . . . .361 (b) Abdominal . . . .361 Tuberculosis 362 Hydatids 362 Simple Tumours, " Fibroids," etc. " Fibroids."—Under this heading are included all those tumours of the uterus in which white fibrous tissue and muscular elements in varying proportions form the bulk of the tumour. It is simply a convenient term to describe a group of pathological growths, for \inder it are included tumours which have very dissimilar composition, histories, and symptoms. The word fibroid in this article is used in this sense only. Several classifications of fibroids are in use. In one the composition and manner of growth supply the basis, and the growths are described as:— 1. Fibro-Myomata, or Multiple and Multi- nodular Fibroids.—In these tumours the white fibrous tissue predominates over the muscular elements. They are hard, and are usually present in numbers in the same uterus. 2. My0-Fibromata, or Uninodular Fibroids.— These tumours are softer, because they have more muscular tissue in their composition. They should be subdivided into—(a) the encap- suled ; (b) the non-encapsuled. The encapsuled sub-variety is often many whorled and comparatively hard; while the non-encapsuled consist not of whorls but of an intricate meshwork of muscular and fibrous tissue more or less inseparably blended with the normal musculature of the uterus. A second classification is based on the posi- tion of the tumours with reference to the wall of the uterus, thus :— (1) Sub-peritoneal: (a) sessile; (6) pediculated. (2) Interstitial. (3) Sub-mucous : (a) sessile ; (5) polypoid. Frequently in cases of multiple fibroids all these varieties are illustrated. A third classification has reference to the point of origin of the growth with reference to the region of the uterus—such as fibroids of the body, fibroids of the cervix. Pathologically the first classification is the most important. 1. The hard, multiple flbro-myomata consist chiefly of white fibrous tissue arranged in whorls in the interstices of which lie unstriped muscle fibre cells with elongated nuclei resembling the muscle cells of the normal unimpregnated uterus. The whorls vary in size, from those seen only through the microscope, to others having a diameter of several centimetres. A varying number of whorls packed together, and usually surrounded by a loose musculo-fibrous capsule, constitute a tumour. The blood-vessels ramify chiefly in the capsule, the interior of the growth being almost non-vascular. The naked-eye appearance of a fibro-myoma is that of a firm white mass, the cut surface of which shows the whorled arrangement of its fibres and has been compared to " white-watered silk." The capsule really consists of altered and con- densed uterine tissue. It is therefore attached loosely to the growth, but intimately to the uterus. This peculiarity often facilitates the enucleation of the morbid from the normal tissues. The fibro-myomata are probably all inter- stitial in origin. They commence in the mus- culature of the uterine wall and grow in the direction of least resistance, being pushed by the contractions of the normal muscle outwards towards the peritoneum or inwards towards the mucous membrane lining the uterus. They may be found deeply embedded in the wall, or covered only by peritoneum or by mucous membrane.