UTERUS, NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE 349 The fibro-myomata, like their component whorls, differ greatly in size. They vary from a minute size up to a huge tumour weighing more than 30 kilogrammes, or upwards of 70 lbs. The numbers vary in each case examined; there may be two or three separate tumours or there may be hundreds. 2. The My0-Fibromata. — Synonyms : soft fibroids ; uninodular fibroids ; monomata ; non- encapsuled fibroids. These tumours appear as pinkish masses of varying degrees of softness embedded in the uterine wall. They contain a larger proportion of muscular fibres and relatively less fibrous tissue than do the multinodular or hard fibroids. The more abundant the muscular tissue the softer and the pinker the mass. They are also richer in blood-vessels, which permeate their tissues and are not confined to their periphery. These growths frequently have no capsule, they cannot be readily enucleated from the surrounding uterine tissues, and they are usually deeply em- bedded because they stimulate the normal tissue to over-development. Some of the uninodular fibroids are so soft that clinically they are mistaken for cystic growths. Their tissues are not arranged in whorls, but from an interlacing network more or less continuous with the normal tissues of the organ. The life-history is different in the two great classes of fibroids. Both varieties may exist from very early days, but occur most frequently during the child-bearing period of life. The hard fibromata follow closely the life-history of the uterus itself. They develop during its period of functional activity; they frequently enlarge to a noticeable degree before and during the catamenia, becoming smaller during the intermenstrual epoch; they often grow enor- mously during pregnancy, in correspondence with the remarkable physiological hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the uterus ; after parturition they share in the rapid involution of that organ. In rare cases the tumour may even disappear; and, lastly, although the menopause may be long, and indefinitely, delayed in the presence of fibroids, yet when it is established the tumour may, like the uterus, undergo senile atrophy. Lastly, these tumours often dwindle after the artificial menopause caused by ablation of the ovaries and tubes. The soft myo-fibromata have a life-history entirely independent of that of the uterus. It is true that they are very rare before puberty, but so are other tumours. If a young girl has a fibroid at all it is usually of the soft, solitary variety. They are often unaffected by men- struation ; alter little during pregnancy and after parturition ; they grow on steadily un- affected by the menopause, and, indeed, often appear for the first time after the reproductive period of the uterus is over. Their growth is unaffected by the removal of the uterine ap- pendages. This independence of growth and other characters show that soft, non-encapsuled fibroids are more nearly allied to malignant growths than are the hai-d fibro-myomata. With regard to the destiny of an individual fibroid, it may remain interstitial and evolute, involute, or degenerate in situ. It may be gradually pressed towards the peritoneum, and be eccentrically extruded so as to form a rounded mass raised above the general peritoneal surface of the uterus. If the process continue the fibroid may be entirely expelled from the uterus and hang free in the peritoneal cavity. Eventu- ally such a fibroid may be entirely detached so as to be found lying in Douglas's pouch; or it may acquire attachments to various pelvic or abdominal organs. Fibroids attached to the uterus by a long pedicle sometimes cause ob- struction of the bowels by strangling a coil of intestine, or they may lead to severe pressure symptoms by falling into Douglas's pouch when the patient stands up. The recognition of this accident is facilitated by the cessation of symp- toms when the fibroid is pushed up, and when the patient lies down or assumes the knee-face position. In another class of case the direction of growth and the uterine contractions may force the tumour concentrically towards the uterine cavity, so that under favourable circumstances it becomes polypoid. The pedicle at first con- sists of a layer of uterine muscle covered with mucous membrane, but after a time it is formed by attenuated mucous membrane only. Having thus become pedunculated, the growth is called a polypus. At any stage this process of pedicu- lation may be arrested, and the bleeding and other symptoms may become so severe as to destroy life unless relieved by operation. Thus the submucous fibroid is liable to cause excessive hsemorrhage and discharge owing to the accompanying congestion of the uterine mucosa; it may become infected and undergo sloughing, gangrenous, or suppurative changes. It may undergo an imperfect process of enuclea- tion in the course of which its vitality is lost, its capsule ulcerates, and it is discharged piece- meal, the patient meanwhile developing symp- toms of sepsis. The danger is less, and the chance of complete spontaneous expulsion is greater, when the suppurative or other destruc- tive change involves the capsule only. The maximum of danger arises when the substance of the tumour undergoes one of the destructive degenerations. The whole system of muscles connected with the uterus is liable to the de- velopment of " fibroids." They have been found in the round ligament, the ovarian ligament, and in the broad ligament, not merely as ex- tensions of a tumour originating in the uterus, but as independent growths.