TRADES, DANGEROUS 93 stances also resemble it, but an examination of the urine for albumen would to some extent help to settle the diagnosis. The prognosis is grave if a large quantity of phosphorus has been taken. Fully one-third of the patients die, many of them within three days of taking the poison. Those patients who survive this period may die from syncope, due to fatty heart. Treatment.—The main object is to prevent absorption of the poison from the stomach, and thereby the pathological changes in the liver and kidneys upon which the secondary poisoning and coma depend. Emetics and purgatives should be administered early, but it is prefer- able to wash out the stomach with plenty of lukewarm water until all odour of phosphorus has disappeared, adding to the water towards the end of the lavage copper sulphate (1 in 100), since this forms, with any phosphorus that has been left in the stomach, an insoluble phosphide of copper. Permanganate of potassium may be substituted for the copper salt. The adminis- tration of spirits or oil of turpentine will be found to be as near an antidote to phosphorus as possible. All fatty food, e.g. milk and oily substances, must be avoided, for these dissolve phosphorus, and therefore favour its absorption. The essential oils, such as turpentine and cloves, also such a liquid like ether, check the glow or phosphorescence of phosphorus, that is to say, its oxidation; it is when in this transitional state that phosphorus is harmful. Saline aperients should be administered. Castor oil, for the reasons just stated, must be avoided. The possibility of syncope coming on should be anticipated by the administration of heart tonics and stimulants, e.g. digitalis and ammonia. Treatment of the necrosed jaw-bone may be expectant. By means of antiseptic mouth- washes the effects of the diseased bone may be materially held in check. A sequestrum of varying size may come away after a few months, or the piece of the jaw-bone may be removed by the surgeon. Both lines of treatment give practically the same results. Most of the patients recover. To check industrial phosphorus-poisoning re- gulations have been framed by the Home Office. Of these, personal cleanliness of the work-people, the introduction of fans for improving the ventilation of dipping- and drying-rooms, also of the tables where the boxing is carried on by hand, and periodic dental inspection of the workers are the principal points. Efforts are now being made to manufacture strike-anywhere matches without yellow phosphorus at all. In France they have succeeded in making matches from sesquisulphide of phosphorus. These have most of the advantages of the strike-anywhere matches, without being poisonous. The demand by the public for safety matches should be encouraged. Bisulphide of Carbon-Poisoning and India-Rubber Manufacture The india-rubber trade gives employment to a large number of men, women, and young per- sons. The increasing uses to which electricity is being put has given a stimulus to this industry. India-rubber is used for insulating electrical wires, also in the manufacture of waterproof garments, toys for children, tobacco-pouches, etc. In the factories where these articles are made, large quantities of naphtha are used to dissolve the rubber. The pungent vapour of the naphtha is at first very irritating to the eyes and the respiratory passages, but the workers soon get accustomed to this. What the work-people com- plain of is that the taste of the naphtha lingers in the mouth long after they have left the factory, so that it prevents them taking food with any relish. Partly owing to this circumstance, and to the fact that the work is carried on often in overheated and ill-ventilated rooms, the girls become ansemic, and suffer much from headache. Beyond these facts and the discomfort which naphtha vapour sometimes causes, it cannot be said that any serious illness has been traced to its employment. It is otherwise with those processes in the manufacture of india-rubber goods in which bisulphide of carbon is used. India-rubber has to be vulcanised, in order to render it capable of withstanding alternations of heat and cold. Vulcanisation of rubber goods is generally done by means of sulphur burned in close chambers or by using bisulphide of carbon. It is with the latter we are chiefly con- cerned. Bisulphide of carbon confers pliancy and elasticity upon india-rubber, and prevents it from becoming hard. The finer goods, such as children's balloons and tobacco-pouches, are dipped in bisulphide of carbon, a liquid that gives off a most offensive and repellent odour; it is also very volatile and its vapour is inflam- mable. All manufacturers are agreed that it is an excellent compound for the purpose to which it is put. Several substitutes have been tried, but as yet none has replaced it. For the vul- canisation of india-i-ubber 2 to 10 parts of chloride of sulphur are generally added to 1000 of bisulphide of carbon. As it is a very inflam- mable substance, the processes in which it is used are carried on in the top story of the factory, and in rooms without a fireplace or naked lights. Symptomatology.—Inhalation of the vapour of bisulphide of carbon has a peculiar intoxicating effect upon some of the work-people. Prolonged exposure to the vapour causes peripheral neuritis. Men and women lose the power in their arms and legs, and once paralysis is developed it is slow to disappear. Before the paralysis occurs there is often observed a staggering gait. In- halation of the bisulphide vapour causes the work-people to be drowsy. They sleep heavily over night, and waken often with a splitting