135 TUBERCULOSIS which usually accompany it, it begins to eat away the cartilage. In ^"time this becomes wholly destroyed, and the whole interior of the joint becomes lined with tuberculous granulation tissue, and is practically an abscess cavity. The disease then begins to extend to the surrounding tissues ; the gelatinous degeneration attacks the ligaments, tendons, and tendon-sheaths. These become softened and disorganised, permitting of a pathological dislocation of the bones entering into the formation of the joint. Abscesses may also form outside the joint, and the pus burrowing to the surface produces at length a fistulous opening communicating with the joint. The connecting sinus is lined with tuberculous granulation tissue which fun- gates at the surface around the opening in the skin. Then if the bone has been attacked secon- darily, tuberculous caries extends in it until a great part of the epiphysis has been destroyed. Meanwhile, as a concurrent result, osteophytic outgrowths usually form on the shaft surface of the unaffected bone near. Tuberculosis of Brain and Spinal Cord.— The disease generally occurs as a leptomeningitis. It occurs both in adults and children, but more commonly in the latter, the pia-arachnoid in children appearing to be specially prone to attack. It may be a part of generalised tuberculosis, and, in this case, the primary focus is usually to be found in a softening lymph gland, either thoracic or abdominal, or it may be the only secondary manifestation present, following de- structive tuberculosis of the lungs. In most cases, however, careful examination, microscopic if necessary, will disclose some evidence of the disease in other organs. It also follows distant disease of bones or of the generative organs. Lastly, it may occur by direct extension from tuberculous disease of the bones forming the cranial cavity, more particularly disease of the temporal bone. The writer found that out of 96 cases—all under twelve years—in which it could be ap- proximately determined, the primary focus was in the bronchial glands in 60 cases (62"5 per cent), in the lungs in 15 cases (15'6 per cent), and in the remaining 21 cases (21-9 per cent) it was appai-ently abdominal. In 8 of the 96 cases the child was under one year of age. In 11 cases of tuberculous meningitis caries of the middle ear existed, and in 6 of these no other causative focus could be found. In a typical case of cerebral meningitis in a child, on removing the calvarium and dura mater the convolutions are found to be flattened, and the sulci narrow. The surface of the arachnoid is dry, glistening, and sticky, and may be pale, or more often congested. A few grey or yellow tubercles may be detected along the Rolandic fissure, but rarely elsewhere on the vertex. The Pacchionian bodies in children may be mistaken for tubercles. If one then proceed to remove the brain in the usual manner {see Post-Mortem Methods, vol. viii. p. 208) a large excess of serous fluid, turbid in appearance, escapes, this excess being a very common characteristic. On examining tlie base, the structures from the chiasma backwards are veiled by recent deposit of tough, gelatinous lymph, usually greenish in colour, in the sub-arachnoid space. Similar deposit occurs on the tips of the tem- poral lobes, and over the anterior part of the superior vermiform lobe of the cerebellum. When this deposit is at all thick the tubercles cannot be distinguished, but one can almost always detect them by separating the lips of the Sylvian fissure which are glued together, and examining the vessels there, using a magnifying glass if necessary. If they cannot be demon- strated even here, they can usually be made out distinctly on the upper surface of the cerebellum. The grey tubercles occur as small, whitish spots on the line of the small vessels interrupt- ing their continuity. When these are examined under the microscope, the condition appears as a cellular infiltration and thickening of the adventitia, giant cells being very seldom found, or the nodule may have extended more in the vessel wall, causing occlusion of it, and showing some necrosis in its centre. In an ordinary typical case the tubercles are found closely aggregated in the Sylvian fissure, and spreading thence on to the surfaces in the neighbourhood. They also may extend up along the Kolandic area, diminishing in numbers as they go. They are also readily seen, but scattered, on the imder surface of the frontal lobe and over the anterior part of the temporal convolutions. On the under surface of the cere- bellum they are visible, but not so distinctly as on the upper surface extending outwards from the vermiform lobe. Adhesions, usually recent, exist, as a rule, in the longitudinal fissure. Grey tubercles may be seen in these, and also extending along the inner surface of the cerebral heniisphei'es close to the corpus callosum. Entering the interior they may be detected in the choroid plexus, velum interpositum, and sometimes even on the ependyma. This usually is granular. The ventricles, chiefly the lateral, are dilated, and contain excess of turbid fluid, this excess being partly due to the inflammatory condition of ependyma and choroid and probably also in part to a degree of obstruction to the drainage of the ventricles produced by the thickened velum. The foramen of Majendie is never blocked as in posterior basic meningitis. The appearance of the brain itself is also altered. Under the ependyma the white matter is softened, sometimes almost pulpy, and the corpus callosum tears very readily. It is difficult to explain this morbid change. It is