148 TUBERCULOSIS statistics. Dr. Carr out of 220 autopsies on tuberculous children at the Chelsea Children's Hospital found that 16'7 per cent showed evidence of primary abdominal infection. Dr. Guthrie {Lancet, 1899, i. p. 286), at Paddington Green Children's Hospital, found in a series of 77 cases that 26 per cent had been infected through the intestine. (Both quoted by Dr. Still, Practitioner, July 1901.) Kossel {Zeitsch. fiir Hygiene, Bd. xxi. 3, 59) found in 14 cases of tuberculosis in children, varying in age from one and a half to ten years, that the primary focus in 4 cases was in the mesenteric glands. There was no symptom of this during life. Hueppe places the incidence of ingestion tuberculosis at 25 to 35 per cent. We can therefore fall back upon a consider- able mass of statistical evidence, and even allowing a margin for error, which, it must be remembered, is probably more than counter- balanced by the known fact that the prevalence of abdominal tuberculosis during life cannot be limited by post-mortem statistics, we have still very strong grounds to go upon in refusing to accept without further more positive proof Koch's statements with regard to this form of tuberculosis. Clinical Evidence.—It is improbable that flesh, even from cattle with very extensive tuberculosis, causes the disease in more than a very small minority of cases. "It is known that 'Knackers,' a class of people very liable to the consumption of tuberculous meat, suffer less from tuberculosis than the general population." (Kustner, Munch, med. Wochenschr., 1889.) It is also stated that Jews suffer less from tuberculosis than Christians, and this has been explained by their greater care in the selection of meat. Tuberculosis of muscle is very rarely met with. From experiments Nocard holds " that muscles either destroy or digest injected bacilli of tuberculosis, or at least render them innocuous." Whatever be the reason, the fact remains that muscle is markedly immune to tuberculosis. Possibly the explanation may not be uncon- nected with the continual unrest of this tissue, and to the fact that it is plentifully supplied with fresh oxygenated blood. As Sidney Martin points out, meat is usually infected by the knife of the butcher, which cuts through broken-down caseous glands, and smears the tuberculous material over its cut surface. Experiments in which meat or meat-juice of tuberculous cattle has been inoculated into, or ingested by other animals, are generally pro- ductive of results so variable as to be untrust- worthy ; the bacilli, in the cases in which tuberculosis has resulted, being apparently de- rived from tuberculous foci in the intermuscular planes or in adjacent glands. Such experiments have been performed by Steinheil {Munch, med. Woch., 1889), Sidney Martin (Royal Commission on Tuberculosis, 1895-6), and others. It is quite another matter, however, where Milh is concerned, and much evidence in support of the virulence of tuberculous milk has been collected since Klebs and Gerlach first proposed, in 1868, that the milk of tuberculous cows may also be an agent of infection, and went so far as to hold it specially accountable for the tubercu- losis of children. Nocard summarises the question of infection by means of milk thus :— 1. "Milk of a tuberculous cow is virulent only when the udder is the seat of tuberculous lesions." The udders are affected in from ^ to 2 per cent of tuberculous cows. 2. " Milk is dangerous only when it contains a large number of bacilli, and is ingested in large amount."—The dose must be large. 3. " In practice, this danger exists only in the case of individuals in whom milk is the ex- clusive or chief article of diet—for example, in infants and invalids. 4. "That, to avoid the danger, it suffices to boil the milk before use." Bang has found that on churning most of the bacilli are carried off in the butter-milk {petit lait), but that a certain number remain always in the butter and cheese. Therefore Nocard believes that butter and cheese, even from an unknown source, may be eaten without fear, the number of bacilli being in any case small, and readily overcome in the alimentary tract. The common presence of acid-fast bacilli in milk and its derivatives must not be forgotten in connection with this question. To sterilise the milk one need not expose it to a temperature of 100° C. Bang has found that exposure to a temperature of 85° C. for five minutes kills all the bacilli—they are often killed at 80° C.; by raising the milk to 70° C. for five minutes they are not killed, and can still give tuberculosis to animals if inoculated into the peritoneal cavity, but their vitality is so profoundly affected that they are quite in- capable of causing tuberculosis in animals which ingest even large quantities of milk treated in this way. The same result is obtained by heating the milk to 65° C. for fifteen to twenty minutes. While it is granted that bacilli are most numerous and virulent in the milk of cows whose udders are extensively diseased, it must be remembered that bacilli, apparently true tubercle bacilli, have been found in the milk of tuberculous cows in which the udders were healthy, and Benda has demonstrated them in the cells lining the lacteal ducts of such animals. In such cases the numbers present, particularly when the milk is mixed with the rest from the herd, are usually too small to cause any infection. The bacilli in milk may be derived either