8 THYROID GLAND, MEDICAL SECTION eyelid, which is to a certain extent counteracted by the instinctive contraction of the occipito- frontalis muscle, causing well-marked transverse wrinkling of the forehead. The nose and ears are also thickened, so that the appearance of the face is greatly altered, and it has a stolid, fixed expression, in consequence of which all advanced cases of myxoedema to a certain extent resemble each other. There may be a con- siderable increase in weight, and the solid oedema in some cases limits the mobility of the joints, so that there is difficulty in stooping or in bringing the hand up to the back of the neck. The skin is dry and rovigh, as the secretion of the sebaceous and sweat glands ceases, and it feels cold to the touch. The superficial layers of the epidermis are frequently shed as a fine white powder. The skin of the face is yellowish in colour in some cases, in others it is white, while the centre of each cheek is usually occupied by a bright red flush, due to dilatation of the small cutaneous veins. On the extensor aspects of the joints, and on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, the skin becomes very hard and dry, and may be cracked. On the back of the hand it is often wrinkled. The hair is generally fine in texture and soft to the touch. On the head it is generally scanty, and in advanced cases there may be almost complete baldness, while the skin of the scalp becomes dry and scaly. Hair in other parts of the body may also be scarce or absent. The nails may be grooved and cracked, while the teeth are often carious. The mucous mem- brane of the mouth and nose is dry, and on the lips it is often pale and swollen as well. The Thyroid Gland.—The thyroid gland is diminished in size in nearly all cases. In some it cannot be felt at all, and in others only the atrophied isthmus can be detected lying in front of the trachea. Earely in slight cases it is larger than normal. Temperature.—A sensation of chilliness may be complained of at an early stage, while in the later stages a feeling of coldness is a common symptom. This is naturally more marked in cold than in warm weather, so that in the winter much time is spent sitting close to the fire. In the early stages the temperature may be normal, but as the disease advances it gradually falls lower, and may be only from 93° F. to 95° F., or even lower before death. Nervous System.—The functions of the nervous system are performed more slowly than in health. Thus there is marked slowness in the comprehension and also in the execution of any- thing new. The memory becomes defective, especially for names of people and things, and for recent events. The temper is generally placid and even. Daily duties, such as dressing and eating, are accomplished very deliberately and take up much time. Patients ai-e often very sensitive about the alteration in their personal appearance, and consequently are apt to be shy. Sleep at night is good, and drowsi- ness may be felt during the day. Auditory and visual hallucinations are not uncommon, even in the early stages of the disease. Some ill-defined object may be seen moving rapidly across the floor, or some well-known figure may be actually seen. A noise like that caused by the opening of a door or actual voices may be heard. The patient is always fully conscious of the subjective nature of these phenomena. Actual insanity occurs in some advanced cases of myxoedema, but, now that suitable treatment is usually adopted at an early stage of the disease, such cases are uncommon. The form of insanity has generally been acute or chronic mania, dementia, or melancholia. All voluntary movements are slow. The gait is slow and awkward and the speech is deliberate. A general muscular weakness is not uncommon, and the legs may give way suddenly while the patient is standing or walk- ing, so that she falls to the ground. Various subjective sensations may be complained of. Chilliness has already been mentioned. Head- aches and neuralgic pains in various parts of the body are not infrequent. Giddiness occurs in some cases. Sensory impulses appear to be conveyed more slowly than in health, but the slowness of response may be partly due to the mental hebetude. The special senses are often impaired. Thus the Myxoedema Committee of the Clinical Society found that in a small number of cases a general diminution of visual power and watering of the eyes were present. Hearing is more or less defective in half of the cases. I have seen with Dr. Dalgleish a woman who had been almost completely deaf, but whose hearing suddenly returned while she was being treated by thyroid extract. Taste and smell are im- paired in some cases. Sexual feeling is usually diminished, and the power of reproduction is not usually retained in either sex. Circulatory System.—In many cases, and especially in the early stages, the heart is unaffected. In advanced cases symptoms of fatty or fibroid degeneration of the cardiac muscle, such as dyspnosa, palpitation, and syncopal attacks, are not uncommon. In such cases the cardiac impulse is feeble and the heart sounds are weak. These cases require special care when treated by thyroid extract, as they are not fit for additional exercise till long after the improvement in the general condition would appear to warrant it. The pulse is generally less frequent than in health, regular, and of low tension. A moderate degree of anaemia is generally present; in some cases there is well-marked pallor. The red corpuscles, however, rarely fall below 3,000,000 per cubic millimetre, while