TUMOUES, INOPERABLE, TREATMENT OF 167 toms, and materially adds to the patient's com- fort. In these latter cases a special apparatus may conveniently be worn. Visceral Deposits.—All that can be done for these is to mitigate the distressing symptoms they give rise to. Digestive and pulmonary irritation must be met by the ordinary remedies, while the distress caused by pleural eifusion and by ascites must be relieved by frequent tapping or the use of Southey's trocars. In the persistent vomiting which often accompanies cancer of the alimentary canal, not arising from obstruction so much as more commonly from a subacute form of peritonitis accompanying the disease, pills of oxalate of cerium and cocaine, and of cocaine and morphia have been specially praised. Abdominal counter-irritation by tur- pentine stupes and by linseed and mustard also does good. The Adoption of any special Therapeutic Meas%ires.—In addition to the general manage- ment of these cases we have always to keep an open mind on the possibility of any special therapeutic measures doing good in any partic- ular case, for experience has emphasised two points in connection with inoperable tumours, viz.: (1) the capriciousness of malignant disease, and (2) the reality of the retrogression of cancer. All medical men are familiar with the fact that the characteristics and the rate of progress of malignant disease vary with each individual, while there seems, apart from errors in diagnosis, reliable evidence that in a certain number of cases of cancer spontaneous retrogression of the disease has taken place. Both these factors have to be taken into account in testing the value of any new methods of treatment, and at the same time it is clear that, while viewing with distrust all the so-called " cures "for cancer, our management of these cases should be carried on in a spirit of hope rather than of despair, and that attention should be directed towards any suggested therapeutic measures. As several of these have attained a certain measure of success, in that there has been under them some amelioration of symptoms and prolongation of life, they are entitled to some consideration. As pointed out in the remarks on the general management of these cases, the use of the knife for neurotomy, gastrostomy, gastro-enterostomy, and colostomy may improve the patient's con- dition and in many ways benefit him, so its employment for the ligature of the vessels supplying a tumour has been advocated and practised with some benefit in a certain number of cases. Entirely palliative as these measures are, others have been suggested having a more curative aim. They may be classified as follows:— 1. Diet. 2. Drugs—{a) Internally, {b) Injection. 3. Bacterio-Therapy. 4. Serum-Therapy. 5. Organo-Therapy. 6. Photo-Therapy. 7. Electricity. Diet.—Complete abstinence from red meats and from stimulants has been advocated, but results have not endorsed the idea, and though milk and white meats seem to suit some, the majority of these cases do best with a generous diet. Drugs. — Internally : celandine (Spivach), chian turpentine (Clay), arsenic (Campbell de Morgan), opium (Snow), cacodylate of soda (Paque), have all been tried internally, but have not established their reliability. The same may be said of the parenchymatous injection of various irritating substances such as acetic acid, alcohol, methyl-violet, venom of cobra di capello, formalin and soap, or of agents cal- culated to produce suppuration artificially, such as oil of turpentine, arsenious acid, and calcium carbide. Bacterio-Therapy.—Under this head come inoculations of the streptococcus of erysipelas, and of this micro-organism modified by ad- mixture with the bacillus prodigiosus and known as " Coley's fluid." The use of the former has been largely replaced by that of the latter, which is practically useless in cases of cancer, but has undoubtedly been of value in a certain number of spindle-celled sarcoma. It must be used cautiously. A beginning is made by in- jecting subcutaneously in the vicinity of the tumour \ minim of the fluid, the reaction caused being watched, and the amount increased to 2 minims. If there is no response to treatment in three to four weeks there is no good continuing. Serum-Therapy.—Anticancerous serums, such as those of Vlaieff and Roquette, and the thymus serum of Foulerton, have been tried, but without any definite results. Fovilerton admits that so far nothing more than mere transient effects have followed the injection of his serum. Organo-Therapy.—This includes the adminis- tration of thymus extract, lymph gland extract, thyroid extract, and oophorectomy. Thymus extract, as administered by Foulerton, has not had an extended trial, but so far it would seem, like the serum, not to produce any distinct effects. The same may be said of Snow's lymph gland extract. Thyroid extract, on the other hand, has been a good deal used, and opinions differ as to its utility. In the medical joui*nals some practitionei's speak well of it, while others have no faith in it. Theoretically it should be of service, because of its known effect on the lymphatic system, the one that is paramount in importance in carcinoma. My own experience is in favour of it, but its effects should be watched, and only those cases chosen that it agrees with. The body weight is a good guide on this point. It should be begun in small doses of 3 grains daily, and increased up to 15 grains. Oophorectomy was originally put forward