TRADES, DANGEROUS 100 not only does the air become impure, but the temperature rises as high as 90° to 100° F. As no moisture is introduced into these rooms the air becomes extremely dry. For the zveaving of cotton, on the other hand, moisture is said to be necessaiy. Weaving-sheds are therefore usually built in damp places : they are low-roofed, their height on an average being from eleven to fifteen feet from the flagged floor to the ceiling; the light enters by the roof. The health of the weavers is endangered by impurities in the air, by the products of respiration and the combus- tion of gas, by cotton-dust and emanations from the soil. The sanitary conveniences for the work-people are often built too close to the walls of the factory. To these defects must be added excessive moisture of the air in the shed, and a high temperature, especially in siunmer. With- in the last forty years, and largely in conse- quence of the scarcity of cotton during the American War, manufacturers have " sized " the cotton, i.e. have passed it through liquid con- taining starch, china clay, tallow, and such deli- quescent salts as magnesium chloride, to which small quantities of zinc chloride have been added to prevent the growth of mildew. Sizing of the cotton, along with excessive humidity of the air, has been regarded as a cause not only of dis- comfort, but of ill-health. During the weaving of the sized cloth a considerable amount of dust is given off. Steam is therefore infused into the weaving-shed with the object of enabling more of the admixture to be woven into cloth and of softening the stiff, oversized threads, thus render- ing them soft and pliable and less likely to break. The clothes of the women and young persons who work in the weaving-sheds are frequently so damped by the moisture that on leaving the factory, Dr. Wheatley, formerly M.O.H. Blackburn, says they readily get chilled, become the subjects of rheumatism, and, what is worse, of pulmonary disease. The size itself adds considerably to the dust in the air of the weaving-shed. The amount of dust is determined by the quantity of the size used and the quality of the cotton. Fifty per cent of the dust on the floor and rafters of weaving-sheds was found by Dr. Dupre to be insoluble mineral matter (china clay), 30 per cent insoluble organic matter (cotton), 15 per cent soluble organic matter (starch), and 5 per cent solvible mineral matter (chloride and sul- phate of magnesium). Since steaming in cotton manufacture must be allowed, the humidity of the air in weaving- sheds is regulated by an order from the Home Secretary, which states that the water used for steam must be pure; it also regulates the length and calibre of the pipe that conveys the steam, and it requires that the amount of carbonic acid in the air of the shed must not exceed nine volumes per 10,000 of air. The moisture of the air is tested by a hygrometer. It is difficult to say what is the effect upon health when operatives are obliged to breathe an excessively moist atmosphere for ten hours a day. There is no doubt, however, as to its debilitating effects, and it is probably in conse- quence of this that tubercular diseases and rheumatism are so frequently met with in cotton-weavers. Ventilation has, to some extent, improved matters. Although it is ad- mitted that '9 part of COj per 1000 of air is not a high standard of purity, yet in order to obtain this it is necessary to introduce as much as 2000 cubic feet of air per head per hour. While the death-rate of cotton operatives from phthisis is little above that of all males throughout the country, there is a high mortality from pneumonia and bronchitis, from rheumatism and heart disease. Formerly the deaths of cotton operatives in Lancashire from phthisis were 25 per cent of the total deaths (1880-1882), but in the years 1890-1892 these had fallen to 19*6. During the same periods bronchitis and pneumonia showed an increase from 25 to 29'7 per cent. Flax and Linen Belfast is the seat of the linen trade. Al- though the manufacture of linen from flax is a very old industry, it has only been carried on in Ireland for a little over two hundred years. In the carding- and spinning-rooms of the factory there is often a great amount of dust, and as the atmosphere is extremely moist and overheated, the workers, especially the half-time doffers, become liable to bronchitis. During the summer months the spinners, in conse- quence of being on their feet all day and moving about, often without boots, on a wet floor, suffer from oedema of the ankles, onychia, and eczema. Dr. Henry S. Purdon of Belfast found the hands of spinners frequently the seat of eczema rimosum. On the hands of Belgian flax-dressers Dr. Gilbert, Medical Inspector of Factories, Brussels, observed a few small round ulcers. Young doffers, i.e. the boys and girls who remove the filled bobbins from the spin- ning-frame, and who replace these by empty bobbins, usually suffer from " mill fever" after they have worked for a few days, an illness which lasts from two to three days, and dis- appears without treatment. The symptoms of " mill fever" are nausea, vomiting, headache, thirst, and feverishness. Tra.g'a.Ca.nth. — A gummy exudation from Astragalus gummifer and other species of Astragalus. Its chief constituents are Traga- canthin, a gum, and a little starch. Prepara- tions—1. Glycerinum Tragacanthse. 2. Muci- lago Tragacanthae. Dose—1-43. 3. Pulvis Tragacanthte Compositus. Dose — 20-60 grs. Tragacanth is one of the constituents of Unna's Jelly. The chief use of Tragacanth is to sus-