91 TRADES, DANGEROUS of match heads in water. The composition with which matches are headed contains 5 per cent of white phosphorus, occasionally more. Phos- phorus is also taken by ignorant and determined females with the view of producing abortion. In Sweden, a few years ago, the number of deaths from phosphorus taken for thispurpose had become so large that Parliament was obliged to consider the advisability of interdicting the use of white phosphorus altogether, and had it not been for the commercial aspect of the question the Bill would assuredly have passed. If women only knew the amount of actual pain and general suffering that phosphorus causes during the few days of life that remain to them after swallowing the poison, they would not so light- heartedly resort to it as a means of self-destruc- tion or for the purposes of producing mis- carriage. Two grains of phorphorus have proved fatal. Match heads contain phosphorus varying from '058 to "116 grains, so that a solution of from 20 to 100 match heads might if drunk cause death. Suicides generally empty one or two boxfuls. Red phosphorus is not very poisonous. It can be administered to animals without serious consequences following. Risks to health in lucifer matchmakers are only incurred by those who have to do with white phosphorus. Matches made from red phos- phorus strike only upon the prepared surface on the box. They are known as safety matches, and they are safe not only as regards accidental firing from percussion, but poisoning as well. It is different with white phosphorus. Male and female lucifer matchmakers alike suffer. Phosphorus affects the work-people probably by the fume given off during the mixing of the composition if done in an open vessel, during the dipping of the matches on an open iron slab, and during the drying and boxing of the matches. My experience of animals exposed to the fumes of phosphorus leads me to believe that the fume given off by the heads of matches is as destructive if not more so than that from pure phosphorus. In match-works the men who dip or head the matches are exposed to the fumes of the fresh phosphorus composition, and they suffer in consequence. So too do the women who handle the matches and fill the boxes. Their hands smell strongly of phos- phorus towards the end of a day's work, and from the water in which they wash a certain amount of phosphorus can be recovered. In the act of filling the boxes some of the matches often take fire, and the thick clouds of smoke that rise render the atmosphere of the boxing- room thick and impure, also irritating to the respiratory passages when inhaled ; but the phosphorus that poisons the work-people enters the system not by this means, but in the form of the more direct fumes from the metalloid itself. Symptomatology.—When a person has swal- lowed vermin paste or drunk water in which match heads have been soaked for a sufficient length of time he will, within two or three hours, sooner if the stomach has been empty, complain of acute pain at the epigastrium, followed by retching and vomiting. The vomit smells strongly of phosphorus and may contain blood and biliary colouring matter. The retch- ing and vomiting may continue for a few days, and there may be diarrhoea. If the case has not been treated early enough, that is, before absorption has taken place, jaundice comes on about the third day, and with the onset of jaundice the liver is usually found to be some- what enlarged and tender. The pulse is small and rapid. The patient feels depressed and ill. Temperature may be unaffected. A high temperature is regarded by many as an un- favourable sign. The urine may or may not contain albumin, as a rule not. Crystals of leucin and tyrosin can be found in the urine if it is carefully manipulated and prepared for their detection. When the jaundice is not marked and the patient has been treated early, improvement may set in within a few days, but a deepening jaundice and the advent of coma point to a secondary poisoning of the patient through imperfect elimination caused by struc- tural changes in the liver, kidneys, and blood- vessels. In severe cases death comes towards the end of the first week, but in children phosphorus-poisoning has proved fatal in a few hours. In addition to vomiting and abdominal pain there may be delirium and convulsions. The skin is often the seat of numerous small petechial-like haemorrhages. Sometimes the red blood cells are increased in number, on other occasions they are diminished. Women, if pregnant, usually miscarry. The foetus is dead. In severe cases of poisoning, completion of the labour is followed by increase of the jaundice, greater tenderness over the liver, diminution in the size of the organ, coma, and death. The symptoms of industrial phosphorus- poisoning are more of a local than a general character. Acute poisoning, practically speak- ing, never occurs in lucifer matchmakers. The principal accident that happens to them is necrosis of the jaw-bone. At its commencement this is a very painful affection, and it is not always relieved by extraction of the decayed tooth. It is a periostitis followed by inflamma- tion of the bone and then by necrosis. For many months pus keeps oozing into the mouth from the affected socket, and as some of this during sleep may trickle down the pharynx or be swallowed with the food, the patient runs the risk of infection, especially as the pus con- tains numerous micro-organisms. Among these Professor Stockman detected a few tubercle bacilli. The glands below the jaw ai'e some- times enlarged and tender. In France a con-