TUBERCULOSIS 123 He also isolated another bacillus from grasses, Grass bacillus II. {Mycobact. graminis), resem- bling both the tubercle bacillus and Grass bacillus I., but presenting certain differences. In culture it resembles rather that of avian tuberculosis, and the form of the bacillus in culture was extremely variable. Inoculation of animals led to fatal results, with changes closely resembling those found in experimental tuberculosis. Moller considers that acid-fast bacilli found in butter and milk are probably simply varieties of the Grass bacillus. Acid-fast bacilli have also been discovered in sewage. Other acid-fast bacilli have been described ; in fact, American authors lately tabulate nearly thirty of them, and some of them claim one after another of the characteristics formerly accredited solely to the tubercle bacillus, until one alone remains, viz. the tai'dy development of the tubercle bacillus in culture. Instead of depending now as formerly on the tinctorial properties, one must now consider the origin of the material examined, and the history of the case from which suspected sputum or other fluid is taken. For example, in most cases of suspected pulmonary tuberculosis in man one can still give help, and sometimes even a definite diagnosis. The difficulty comes in when one has to examine urine, food-stuffs, or material which may contain tubercle bacilli, but the relationship of which to a possible infection from diseased man or animals cannot be proved. Specific Diagnostic Tests for Tuberculosis.— During 1907 and 1908 several new diagnostic tests for tuberculosis have been introduced, and despite the comparatively short time they have been in use their utility is already very gener- ally admitted. The tests are (1) the oculo- reaction of Calmette ; (2) the cutaneous reaction of Pirquet; (3) the subcutaneous reaction ; and (4) Moro's salve reaction. The subcutaneous reaction is a localised area of swelling and red- ness which follows the injection of 1 mgrm. of old tuberculin under the skin of a tuberculous individual ; the salve reaction is a dermatitis following inunction with an ointment consisting of 5 c.c. old tuberculin and 5 grams anhydrous lanolin. Neither of these has been employed to any extent in this country, and they need no further mention. Pirquet's test is probably the most delicate ; a drop of 25 per cent solu- tion of old tuberculin is placed on the skin, and a punctate scarification of the epidermis is made through it, as in ordinary vaccination ; a control vaccination through saline solution is also performed. A positive reaction is shown by the development within six or eight hours of a small papule, which speedily becomes sur- rounded with a small erythematous zone. If there is any latent or obsolete tuberculous deposit in the body a positive reaction is very probable; hence it is not surprising that from 80 to 90 per cent of clinically healthy adults react. Its very delicacy robs the test of some of its value so far as adults are concerned; it is most reliable as an evidence of clinical tuber- culosis in children. The oculo-reaction is per- formed by instilling one drop of a "5 per cent solution of tuberculin into the conjunctival sac. In the course of six or eight liours a positive result is shown by the appearance of some mild inflammation of the caruncle, followed in a few hours by more or less general conjunc- tivitis. The chief drawback to the oculo-reac- tion is the occasional occurrence of more serious inflammation of the eye, and one or two cases of permanent impairment of vision have been reported. In most of these the eye has been the seat of previous disease, and it is of the greatest importance to assure oneself, before applying the test, that the organ is healthy. It is also advisable to irrigate the conjunctiva with sterile saline solution before instilling the tuberculin. While, therefore, the test is not entirely free from risk, it should be remembered that it has now been used in many thousands of cases, and that the number of accidents is comparatively small. A number of them have been due to the use of too strong a solution of tuberculin ; the solution should not be stronger than -5 to 1 per cent. As a general rule it may be said that a marked, early ocular, or cutaneous reaction suggests a mild infection ; a slight, delayed reaction indicates a more severe one. The test is usually negative in tubercular meningitis, general tuberculosis, and advanced cases generally. Separation and Cultivation of the Tubercle Bacillus.—Koch, after failing with other media, succeeded in cultivating the bacilli on the sur- face of stiffened blood serum, and it is an evidence of the greatness and completeness of his work that his methods remain still, after twenty years, those most generally used for the separation of the tubercle bacillus and its culti- vation outside the body of man. To obtain cultures, a guinea-pig with early acute experimental tuberculosis is killed, por- tions of tuberculous tissue or glands are taken with aseptic precautions and implanted on the surface of solidified blood serum. The growth appears in ten to fourteen days as a dry scale, which gradually spreads over the surface, reach- ing full development in six or seven weeks. Some workers recommend that the piece of tissue should not at once be smeared over the surface of the serum, but kept for two or three weeks at 37°-38° C, and that after this time it should be broken up against the wall of the test-tube, and the juice from it smeared over the surface. In first cultures as a rule the growth is not plentiful, but it becomes more voluminous and luxuriant in subcultures.