X-RAYS 568 of the best interrupters known. A disadvantage is the very large amount of mercury required. In the mercury jet interrupter (Fig. 6) there is a small centrifugal pump below, which throws up a constant fountain of mercury along which Pig. 4.—Dipping contact interi'upter. Schall. the current passes; the current is broken by the interposition of two insulating fibre arms whose plane of rotation is at right angles to the direction of the jet. This is also an excellent interrupter, but it suffers from the disadvantage of requiring a large amount of mercury. This makes it very heavy : in fact, the complete instrument is as much as a man can con- veniently carry. All the above-mentioned mercurial inter- rupters suffer from certain defects which appear to be inseparable from the use of mercury; the mercury becomes oxidised, pul- verised, and churned up with the paraffin or alcohol so that the insulating properties of the paraffin are impaired and a complete break is not obtained; further, in the case of the mercury jet, the emulsified mercury is thrown up and deposited upon the insulating fibre supports, which have accordingly to be cleaned —not a pleasant operation while a patient is waiting. Care must, therefore, be taken to keep the mercury in these instruments clean by washing with water or dilute sulphuric acid. 2. A new group of interrupters were first introduced by Dr. Wehnelt (Fig. 7), and we owe modifications of the original instrument to Simon Caldwell, Campbell Swinton, and others. The principle of the instrument is electrolytic. Into a large jar of dilute sulphuric acid are placed a good-sized lead plate and a small platinum wire, which can be made to project through a tight-fitting aperture ; the diameter of the platinum wire and the amount of projec- tion are important, and in later instruments three or more platinum wires of different diameters (1, 2, and 3 mm.) are provided (Fig. 7). Any one of these can be used as desired to suit the conditions of the voltage. The lead plate must be made the kathode, and the platinum wire the anode. The interrupter can be used when the voltage of the current supplied is not less than thirty (fifteen accumu- lators), and it can be used directly from the electric light mains (100-230 volts). No mechanical interrupter can approach this one in' the rapidity of the interruptions, and the discharge at the secondary terminals takes the form rather of a continuous flame than of a succession of sparks (Fig. 8). It is thus ex- ceedingly powerful. The condensers of the coil should be detached during its use. It suffers from the disadvantage of not being wholly reliable ; sometimes it will not work steadily, it tires and the acid grows hot, and the powerful discharges set up overheat the anode of the tube. The interruptions are perhaps due to bubbles of gas produced by electrolysis at the anode ; the spheroidal state may also play a part. The tiny bubble of gas will cut off the current, but as soon as the current stops the bubble is absorbed and the current starts again. In other forms of this break the small platinum wire is replaced by a lead plate, and the interruptions are produced by forcing the current to pass through a small aperture in a plate of porcelain which divides the cell into two parts. The Fig. 5.—Mackenzie Davidson interrupter. Walrh's Runtgen Rays. Wehnelt break is of service when it is desired I to give a very short exposure, as in photograph- ing the teeth. 3. More recently rubbing contact interrupters between solids have been introduced by Dawson Turner and Gaiife. In the Dawson Turner break (Fig. 9) there