384 VACCINATION Sutherlandshire, " the smallpox used formerly to cut off great nvuiibers of the children, but inoculation was introduced here more than thirty years ago . . . and it has been attended with the greatest success." In one or two places permanent increase of population was attributed by the writers to the practice of inoculation. At Largo, Fifeshire, it is stated, " Few children are now cut off by smallpox, as inoculation is generally introduced with remarkable success. During twenty years' practice our surgeon has not lost one patient." These statements were made by parish ministers relating the impression the facts had made on their minds. They wrote independently of each other, and their testimony is worthy of attention. Horace Walpole ^ may again be quoted: " Oh, your poor young Queen of Naples who has got the smallpox and will lose her beauty, if not her life! How much stronger super- stition and prejudice are than maternal love, when all these deaths cannot open the Empress Queen's eyes (Maria Theresa) in favour of inoculation ! But she has escaped herself, and that will close them faster than ever." And again, "I wonder all the princes of Europe are not frightened into their wits—why they die every day ! and might avoid it, most of them, by being inoculated. Mr. Sutton would ensure them at 12 pence a head. He inoculates whole counties, and it does not cause the least inter- ruption in their business. They work in the fields, or go up to their middles in water, as usual. It is silly to die of such an old-fashioned distemper ! " In another letter Walpole speaks of " his zeal for the cause of inoculation." George's III.'s eighth son, Octavius, died in a convulsion on the sixth day after inoculation. Walpole says that even though it may be true that the death was due to the operation, " is one child lost an argument against millions pre- served "? Did not another child die, also from convulsions, two years ago, who had not been inoculated %" The era of inoculation, however, was not a long one. It was destined to be superseded by vaccination. In the year 1769 Edward Jenner, a medical student from Gloucestershire, came to London and lived with John Hunter as one of his house pupils. Hunter was always questioning Nature in one direction or another. He had a genius for observing facts, and for putting them into their true relation with each other. To this questioning and observing man Jenner reported that in the midst of an epidemic of smallpox a dairymaid had said confidently to him, " I shall not take smallpox; I have had cowpox." What did this mean ? Hunter said in answer, " Do not think, try ; be patient, be accurate " ; meaning, no doubt, be sure of your facts before you theorise upon them, and when you are sure test them experimentally. We know now that > Horace Walpole's Letters, vol. v. p. 71. the tradition which Jenner heard from the dairymaid was common not only in Gloucester- shire, but in many other parts of England, Ireland, and the Continent. It has been traced in eighteen English counties. The practice of inoculation was practically an experiment on a large scale testing the truth of the tradition. Whenever smallpox was introduced into a dairy or cheese-making district, hundreds of people would seek the protection of inoculation. Every practitioner would look carefully into the causes of failure, when he had inoculated without success. He heard in many cases that the subject of the operation had had sores on her hands, contracted from the cow, and that the dairy people believed these sores protected against smallpox. If this happened again and again, and the dairymaids who could not be inoculated did not get smallpox when exposed to it, the practitioners would gradually begin to respect the traditional belief. So strongly was this tradition held that we now know of a farmer named Jesty who actually took lymph from a cow and inoculated his wife and children with it to protect them from smallpox, and that this was done before Jenner's memoir appeared. Dr. M'Vail quotes from Pearson's Inquiry into the History of Cowpox, much evidence of the wide diffusion and strength of the tradition about cowpox. "Mr. Rolph says there is not a medical prac- titioner of even little experience in Gloucester- shire, or scarce a dairy-farmer, who does not know from his own experience and that of others that persons who have suffered the cowpox are exempted from the agency of the variolous poison. . . . So, too, Mr. Bragge, many years before, had inoculated over fifty people, of whom three had had cowpox, and these he therefore charged with abundance of matter, but to no purpose." Dr. Seaton, in his Handbook, refers to a German newspaper dated 1769 in which men- tion is made of cowpox being often seen about Gbttingen, of milkers being affected by it, and of " their being protected thereby against smallpox." From the time Jenner heard of the tradition he pondered over it. He lived the life of a busy country doctor for thirty years. But abo\it midway in this time, in 1780, his pondering led him to a new idea in connection with cowpox, and it is upon this idea that his fame is based. It flashed upon his mind that if the tradition referred to was true, the protection from small- pox might possibly be transferred directly from one person to another, and then that every one might be made immune to the poison of small- pox. Can we not imagine the delight that such a conception as this would bring to one who knew, as every doctor did then, the misery and suffering caused by smallpox^ Jenner was afraid to mention his idea publicly; but one day, riding with his intimate friend Gardiner,