TROPACOCAINE OR TROPOCOCAINE 110 Tropacocaine or Tropoco- Caine.—A local anaesthetic, used in the form of the hydrochloride (CgHi^NO.CeHsCO.HCl) for intraspinal injection (lumbar anaesthesia), and as a solution in dental surgery ; it is said to be less dangerous than cocaine. TrophiC-—Belonging to or influencing nourishment (Gr. Tpoir<f>ri, food). See Ainhum {Etiology, Trophic Lesion); Atrophy {Physiology of Trophic Influence); Brachial Plexus, Surgi- cal Affections of {Symptoms, Trophic); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Conditions Result- ing from); Hemiplegia {Trophic Changes); Hysteria (Trophic Disorders); Nerves, Peri- pheral (Injuries, Symptoms, Trophic Changes); Raynaud's Disease ; Syringomyelia (Symptoms, Trophic Changes). Trophoblast.—The epithelium covering the segmenting ovum and developed probably from its epiblast, which serves as the means by which implantation of the new organism on the mucous membrane of the uterus takes place ; it is believed that the trophoblast invades the uterine mucosa and that the maternal blood converts the trophoblast cells into syncytium. See Embryology, Human (Second Week). Trophoneurosis.—Atrophy of a part due to defective action of the nerves which control its nutrition. See Raynaud's Disease ; Atrophy ; etc. Tropical.—Belonging to the tropical regions of the earth ; e.g. tropical liver, phage- dsena, and ringworm. See Tropics, Unclassed Fevers of ; Liver, Tropical Affections of ; Sunstroke ; etc. Tropics, TKie Unclassed Fevers of the. Introduction. . . . . .110 Classification . . . . -110 Continued Fevers of Short Duration Nakra 112 Loio" Fever 113 Continued Fevers of Longer Dura- tion— Bastard Typhoid . . . .113 Double Continued Fever . . .113 Non-Malarial " Remittent" Fever . 114 Recurrent Fevers of Long Interval . 115 Fevers of Mixed Origin— Typho-Malarial . . . .115 Kala-Azar . . . . .115 Hcemoglobinuric Fever . . .116 See also Liver, Tropical Affections of. The enormous extent of the field which hot climates offer for the clinical and pathological study of febrile diseases may be estimated by a glance at the annual returns of the Government of India. In 1899, which was an unusually healthy year, no fewer than 4,072,750 deaths, exclusive of those caused by the exanthemata, were registered imder that heading. In other years the number has reached four and a half millions (1892) in a population of 250,000,000; and remembering the very imperfect registra- tion of mortality in that country, where it is probably no exaggeration to say that a fourth of the deaths are not registered at all, and that in the native army and jail population, from which we obtain exact returns, the case mor- tality from these diseases (including hepatitis, pneumonia, and other inflammatory diseases, which are all massed together with " fevers " in those of the general population) is only 10 per 1000, one can form some conception of the amount of sickness which these figures represent and of the field which they offer for study. Out of a total registered mortality of 29'5 per 1000, 19-5 are entered under this head, and it may be said that in India—and there is no reason to think that India is exceptional to other hot countries in that respect—of every three cases which present themselves for treat- ment two are suffering from fever of some kind. Fevers have, accordingly, always loomed large in writings descriptive of tropical diseases, and the history of tropical medicine is naturally largely that of the disentanglement of this mass of fevers and the gradual differentiation of clinical types. Putting on one side malarial fevers of the intermittent and " remittent" forms, typhoid, Malta, relapsing, filarial fevers, and the exan- themata, there remain a large number of cases which refuse to range themselves under any of these headings. These may be subdivided into the following clinical types:—1. Continued fevers of short duration ; 2. Continued fevers of longer duration and more or less definite course ; 3. Periodic fevers of long interval; 4. Fevers of uncertain and probably mixed origin. Continued Fevers of Short Duration Writing in 1857, J. B. Scriven (Indian Annals of Medical Science, vol. iv., 1857) was able to recognise four essential kinds of fever in Bengal, exclusive of the exanthemata, namely, —1. Malarious fever, divided into continued, remittent, and intermittent; 2. Febricula or ephemeral fever; 3. Insolation or sun fever ; 4. Typhoid fever. This classification took firm hold of the profession, and received the sanction of such great teachers as Maclean and Chevers. It was simple and comprehensive, but the lumping together of continued, remittent, and intermittent fevers under the heading of " Malaria " has greatly retarded the progress of tropical pathology. The difficulty of grouping together fevers offering such diverse clinical pictures was not unperceived, but the early defervescence of those of a short continued type