UTERUS, MALFORMATIONS OF THE 322 secondary sexual characters, such as the breasts and pubic hair, are usually poorly developed. The patient may show general arrest of develop- ment, the woman of twenty-five presenting the physical and mental characteristics of a child. Infantile Uterus.—In this case the body of the uterus preserves the characteristics of child- hood ; it is small, with an ill-developed fundus ; and the cervix may be two or three times the length of the body. Menstruation seldom occurs ; or it comes on very late and is scanty and irregular. The vulva, vagina, pubes, and breasts may share in the retardation ; but on the other hand they may not differ from the normal adult condition. Sexual desire is usually absent. Uterus Unicornis.—If one-half of the uterus develops normally whilst the other retains its foetal condition, the condition known as uterus unicornis or one-horned uterus results (Fig. 2). The round ligament marks the limit between the rudimentary horn and the Fallopian tube. Both tubes and ovaries may be normal; but uterine horns. Fallopian tube. Vagina. Fig. 2.—Uterus unicornis. more often the tube and ovary remain rudi- mentary on the side of the undeveloped horn. The condition may give rise to no symptoms and remain undiscovered, the normal half of the uterus carrying on the functions of men- struation and gestation. Pregnancy may, how- ever, occur in the rudimentary horn, giving clinically the symptoms and signs of a tubal gestation. Rudimentary Fallopian Tubes.—One or both tubes may remain under-developed; sometimes this is the result of foetal peritonitis. In rare cases, of which we have seen an example, the tubes become occluded along their course and divided; the fimbriated end shrivels up, and the remainder of the tube comes to resemble closely a vermiform appendix. In other cases the fimbriae remain well developed, whilst the portion of tube nearer to the uterus atrophies to a cord-like structure. Rudimentary ovaries usually present the long, narrow shape characteristic of foetal life; and this form is seen not infrequently in cases of undescended ovary and of congenital hernia of the ovary. In other cases the ovary has the normal shape, but is small. Menstruation and sexual desire may be absent; and in any case sterility results. As the result of arrest in the development of the cloaca and urogenital sinus several rare malformations occur. Thus the anus may be imperforate terminally, the rectum opening into the posterior wall of the vagina; conversely the vagina may be imperforate below, but open into the anterior rectal wall. The urethra may be absent, the bladder opening into the anterior vaginal wall. There is an example in the museum of the London Hospital of rectum and bladder both opening into the vagina, the orifice of which thus served as a general cloaca. There was apparently no suspicion of the state of things till the patient was ordered an enema in the hospital. II. MaI,FORMATIONS DUE TO THE PERSISTENCE OF Septa.—A persistent septum may be longi- tudinal or ti-ansverse, or there may be a com- bination of both conditions ; and three types of malformation are thereby produced : — (a) Double uterus and vagina, from fail- ure of coalescence of the two Miillerian ducts. {b) Atresia of the genital canal, from failure on the part of the coalesced Miillerian ducts to open into the urogenital sinus. (c) Doubling of the uterus and vagina with atresia in one-half, that is, unilateral atresia. {a) Double Uterus and Vagina. — Inas- much as the fusion of the Miillerian ducts occurs from below upwards, it is not un- common to find a double uterus with one vagina, or a double fundus with a common cervix and vagina; but the reverse condi- tion, that is to say, a double vagina with undi- vided uterus, or double cervix with undivided fundus, is never found. Double Vagina. — This condition occurs in some cases of double uterus. The septum between the two halves of the vagina may ex- tend to the vulva, when the appearance of the vaginal orifices somewhat resembles a double- barrelled gun. Or the orifice may be single, and the septum is discovered only on making a digital examination. The septum itself may be quite complete ; or it may be perforated in parts ; and in some cases it is incomplete, and repre- sented by longitudinal ridges on the anterior and posterior vaginal walls. Double Uterus.—Thi'ee types are found : the uterus septus, the uterus bicornis, and the uterus didelphys. In the first two the cervix may be single or double, but the uterus didelphys has necessarily two cervices. Uterus Septus (Fig. 3, 1 a and 1 b).—Here the Miillerian ducts have fused externally, so that when seen from the outside the uterus appears normal save for some broadening of