TYPHOID FEVER 197 diagnose such aberrant cases of typhoid for some days. From Ulcerative Colitis.—Colonic distention, diarrhoea, melaena, and pyrexia occur in botli diseases. Colitis is distinguished from typhoid by the absence of skin eruption, of enlarged spleen, of step-like temperature rise, and by the character of the stools, and the pain in the course of the colon or sigmoid flexui-e. From Syphilitic Fever.—Secondary or more rarely tertiary syphilis may give rise to persis- tent, continued (or intermittent) fever with no ascertainable local lesion. When associated with headache and enlarged spleen as it sometimes is, typhoid fever may be closely simulated. When other evidences of typhoid are long absent, and there is a history or evidence of old syphilis, this should be borne in mind. From Pus Collections in inaccessible Situa- tions.—Pent-up pus may give persistent pyrexia, and when it is so situated that the local signs of its existence are unobtainable typhoid fever may be simulated; especially is this likely to be the case when the abscess is within the ab- domen. Thus a right-sided perinephritic abscess in a child produced chills, pyrexia, abdominal swelling, tenderness in the right flank, and was quite impossible to diagnose from typhoid fever till it produced a localised fluctuating swelling. And a duodenal ulcer, with abscess in the liver, produced tension of the abdominal muscles and pain, with chills, continued pyrexia, meltena, and wasting—a combination for a time greatly resembling the symptoms of typhoid fever. Subdiaphragmatic abscess, again, may prodvice apparent enlargement of spleen, with pyrexia and tympanites, resembling an attack of typhoid. And a loculated empyema may do the same. From Malarial Fever.—-The diagnosis is not often required in this country. As a rule the rigors and temperature range serve to distinguish between the two diseases, but cases of malaria occur in which the pyrexia may be nearly con- tinuous, rigors absent, and diarrhoea present. This combination of continued pyrexia with en- larged spleen and diarrhoea greatly simulates typhoid, from which it can only be distinguished by examination of the blood for malarial para- site, or by the appearance of the typhoid roseola. From Pycemia and Ulcerative Endocarditis.— These may give pyrexia and enlargement of spleen and pink cutaneous spots. The ir- regularity of the pyrexia, the absence of the characteristic stools, Widal's reaction, and, in the case of ulcerative endocarditis, the produc- tion of cardiac bruits will assist in diagnosis. Prognosis.—The fatality of typhoid fever is very variously stated by different authors, and it depends greatly on the character of the epi- demic, the age of the patient, and the conditions under which he is placed. Thus in military campaigns the mortality is usually high. Again, percentage mortality varies with the inclusion or exclusion from statistics of those numerous cases of continued fever which cannot with certainty be diagnosed as typhoid. Under the cold bath treatment the mortality is 8 or 9 per cent. In the Maidstone epidemic it was only 7 "5 per cent. Hare of Philadelphia estimates it as 10 per cent. By far the largest body of statistics available are those from the returns of the hospitals under the Metropolitan Asylums Board of London, and the returns of the Registrar-General. In the former, of 13,552 cases treated from 1871 to 1899 inclusive, 2331 died, a mortality of 17"2 per cent., and of 35,442 cases notified to the Registrar-General as occurring in London during the ten years 1891 to 1900 there were 6011 deaths, a mortality of 16-9 per cent. This may be taken as the average mortality of typhoid fever in London, and it stands at much the same point as it was computed to stand by Murchison thirty years ago. It must be remembered that a case, however slight it may at first appear, may become serious from toxic effects, or from perforation or meleena. Age.—The chances of recovery are generally admitted to be greater in children than in adults, but they may have the disease severely, and are not exempt from any of its dangers. Griesinger thinks the prognosis bad in very young children. Sex.—Is rather more favourable in males than in females. Obesity is unfavourable. Idiosyncrasy has probably much to do with the severity of the attack, as it has in the exan- themata generally, some families and some in- dividuals being predisposed to contract and to suffer severely from typhoid. Season of the Year.—Dreschfield regards it as most fatal in the warm months. Epidemic Character.—-The mortality is great in certain localities and in certain epidemics. Murchison points out the resemblance cases occurring in the same house bear to one another. Surrounding insanitary conditions gravely affect the prognosis. Previous Health.—Robustness of health con- fers no immunity or exemption from the chief dangers of the disease, but visceral disease, or diabetes, or privation, affects the prognosis very unfavourably. Early Treatment.—-The prognosis becomes unfavourable the longer the taking to bed is resisted. Moving the patient from the place where he has been lying ill to hospital, etc., is pre- judicial in late stages of the disease, but may be less so than stopping in an insanitary dwelling. Cutaneous Eruption.—There is no relation- ship between the amount of rash and the severity of the disease. Still, where profuse eruption repeatedly recurs the prognosis is less favourable than where the eruption is short- lived and slight. Profuse siveating does not affect the prognosis.