URETHRA, DISEASES OF 254 stained and washed without destruction. Filter on to each film surface sufficient anilin gentian violet (which can be bought ready-made or in soloids) to completely conceal the cover-glass. Pour off the stain in fifteen minutes, dip each cover-glass for an instant into water, and then pour on Gram's solution of iodine (iodine one part; potassium iodide two parts; distilled water 300 parts). Pour off the iodine in two minutes, and, without further washing, place the cover-glass in a watch-glassful of absolute alcohol until no more violet colour comes away, when the cover-glass is drained on a piece of white filter paper, but not necessarily until the film is decolorised. This usually takes from five to ten minutes, and it may be necessary to employ a second watch-glassful of spirit. Wash in water, dry, and mount in Canada balsam, or counterstain for forty-five seconds in a saturated aqueous solution of Bismarck brown, diluted with three times its volume of water. The pus corpuscles may be stained with eosin and the gonococci with Lofiler's methylene blue by putting a film into methylene blue for one minute, washing till most of the blue dis- appears ; counterstaining in a watery solution of eosin for twenty to thirty seconds; washing, drying, and mounting in Canada balsam. The preparation in each case must be examined with an immersion lens. Course — In Men. — Gonorrhoea is nearly always caught by direct infection and usually during sexual intercourse. The incubation varies from three to five days, though it may be as short as a few hours, and is said to have been as long as a fortnight. The poison is less easily inoculated than that of soft sores, and its incubation period is longer (see Art. "Venereal Disease," vol. x. p. 427). The earliest symptoms are those of a simple urethral inflammation, a sense of heat and itching in the glans penis, with increased sexual excitability and smarting on passing urine. These symptoms increase in intensity, until in twenty-four hours the urethral mucous mem- brane becomes swollen and begins to discharge a secretion which is at first serous but soon be- comes purulent. The acute stage is marked by painful erections which may culminate in chordee, when the penis is abnormally curved or bent during erection as a result of plastic exudation into the corpus spongiosum or into one of the corpora cavernosa. Vesical tenesmus and increased frequency of micturition are also frequent and troublesome symptoms. The acute stage lasts about a fortnight, and is often associated with much mental depression. It may be complicated by cystitis and by a sharp and painful inflammation of the epididymis. As the acute stage gradually subsides the dis- charge becomes thinner, scantier, and clearer, until it either disappears altogether or is merely present as a drop at the meatus on first wakin<r in the morning. An acute attack of gonorrhoea may thus run its course in five to eight weeks, and although this occasionally happens, it is much more usual for the inflammation to under- go a series of relapses which greatly retard recovery, or it becomes chronic as a gleet. The prognosis, therefore, is not very good as regards a speedy cure, though with care and attention there is but little doubt that a gonorrhoea can be wholly cured. The patient needs to be warned on several points in regard to his cure. He recognises clearly enough that gonorrhoea is contagious, but he does not always understand that it is auto-inoculable. He should be told, therefore, of the danger of carrying infection to his eyes or mouth by rubbing them when his fingers are soiled with the lirethral discharge. He must also be told that relapses are produced by very slight indiscretions in eating and drinking, as well as by every departure from strict conti- nence. The dangers of marrying with an uncured gonorrhoea, even though it be very chronic, should be pointed out, and he should be made aware of the fact that it is extremely difficult to determine when a cure has been effected. The gonococci have a remarkable faculty of lying dormant until they are roused into activity by any cause leading to an increase in the blood or lymphatic supply of the urethral mucous membrane. They are especially liable to remain in the follicles of the prostate, so that the prostatic threads passed at the end of micturition should always be care- fully examined, and no patient should be pro- nounced fi-ee from gonorrhoea until a careful bacteriological examination has been made of the urethral discharge produced by the injection of a solution of nitrate of silver. The patient is first asked to pass his urine, and 10 drops of a 4 per cent solution of cocaine hydrochlorate are then injected into the urethra. Five minutes later a solution of nitrate of silver (20 grains to the ounce) is injected into the urethra, the penis being compressed at a point 2 inches behind the meatus, to prevent the fluid passing into the bladder. The solution is retained for a few seconds before it is allowed to escape, and the injection is thrice repeated, after which the penis is washed in warm water. The nitrate of silver causes an acute but temporary desquama- tive urethritis with considerable discharge, and if the patient is to be pronounced free from gonorrhoea, the discharge should not contain any gonococci. A more rough and ready way of endeavouring to ascertain whether a patient is cured of gonorrhoea is to ask him nearly to empty his bladder. The prostate is then manipulated through the rectum, and the remainder of the urine is then passed. This residue will contain a considerable quantity of the prostatic secretion, and if this is free from gonococci, the patient is perhaps cured.