THYROID GLAND, SECTION 11 be exophthalmic goitre were recorded without their true nature being recognised. Graves was the first to describe it as a separate disease in a clinical lecture published in 1835, and in recog- nition of this the name Graves' disease is often applied to it. Five years later von Basedow gave a more exact description of the symptoms, emphasising the association of the three main symptoms of exophthalmic goitre and palpita- tion, and in Germany the disease is often named after him. During the last sixty years several hundred papers have been written on the subject, so that the literature is now very considerable. Etiology. — Age. — Exophthalmic goitre is rare in childhood, though it has been observed at the age of two and a half years. It occurs most frequently in adolescents and young adults, more cases developing during the third decade than in any other equal period of life. Sex.—Women are far more liable to suffer from exophthalmic goitre than men, as there are at least eight times as many cases in women as in men. Heredity.—In a few instances the disease has been observed in two and even three successive generations. Thus, in an example given by Rosenberg, the paternal grandmother, two patei'nal aunts, the father, and one sister of the patient all suffered from exophthalmic goitre. Less rarely two or three sisters in a family may show more or less marked symptoms of the disease. Three sisters once consulted me at the same time; one had well-marked symptoms, and the other two slight symptoms of Graves' disease. I was informed that the mother and a fourth sister both had goitre, but could not ascertain if other symptoms were present or not. It is not uncommon to find that there is a well-marked tendency among the relations of the patient to suffer from various neuroses, especi- ally epilepsy, chorea, hysteria, and insanity. Personal Antecedents.—Persons in all classes of life seem to suffer alike. Anaemia, quinsy, and rheumatism, in a considerable number of cases, precede the onset of the disease. In others some prolonged illness, exertion or mental strain appears to have predisposed the patient to the disease. Exciting Cause.—Of the actual exciting cause of exophthalmic goitre in the great majority of cases we are as yet quite ignorant. In some cases, however, the symptoms have followed soon after some special event which appears to have acted as the exciting cause. This has generally been some severe fright associated with mental or physical shock, or else a pro- longed mental strain or emotional disturbance. Thus one of my patients, at the age of twenty- four, fell off a bridge into the water and was nearly drowned; a goitre appeared a few months later, and when I saw her fourteen years afterwards it was still there, and though the eye symptoms had disappeared, the pulse was still 120, and there were tremors of the hands. In another of my cases, a young lady was engaged to be married when her fiance. developed phthisis, to which he succumbed a year later. Symptoms of exophthalmic goitre ap- peared soon afterwards, apparently as a result of this year of anxiety and suspense. Symptoms.—There are five leading or primary symptoms in exophthalmic goitre, with which may be associated other secondary symptoms. The chief symptoms are enlargement of the thyroid gland, increased frequency of pulse, exophthalmos, general nervousness, and muscular tremors. Two or three of these symptoms are present in all cases, any one of which may be the first to attract the attention of the patients or the friends. In some cases the exophthalmos is first noticed, or the palpitation gives rise to alarm; in others the goitre is discovered first. In many, however, the nervousness, with irrita- bility and restlessness, is the first obvious sign of ill-health. The several symptoms will now be considered in detail. The Thyroid Gland.—Some enlargement of the thyroid gland is present in the great majority of cases. The swelling in the neck may be the first sign of the disease, or it may develop at the same time as the exophthalmos and palpita- tion, while in some cases it is not noticed until after the appearance of these symptoms. As a rule the enlargement takes place gradually during several weeks, but it has been known to come on in a few hours. The amount of enlarge- ment is usually moderate, but readily visible to the eye; in some cases it can, however, only be detected on palpation. The whole gland is uniformly enlarged, and as the right lobe is normally larger than the left, this difference becomes more marked when the gland is hyper- trophied. During the earlier stages of the disease the gland gradually enlarges, then for a variable period it remains stationary, or may show slight variations in size from week to week or even from day to day. In many cases the enlarged gland is seen to pulsate ; this movement is often communicated by the violent throbbing of the carotid arteries, though in some cases there is a genuine expansile pulsation of the whole gland. A systolic thrill can be felt in some cases on light palpation, and a systolic murmur can frequently be heard when the stethoscope is applied to the front of the neck. In the later stages of the disease fibrosis of the enlarged gland may develop, so that it gradually becomes smaller and harder. This is really a beneficial change, and may be accom- panied by subsidence of the other symptoms. In some cases, however, this process has gone on to advanced fibrosis with atrophy of the gland, and the symptoms of myxoedema have in con- sequence i-eplaced those of exophthalmic goitre.