VAGINA, DISORDERS OF THE 408 involuntarily in fright and pain, and may assume an appearance of abject terror. The spasm affects the sphincters of the vagina and anus, the small perineal muscles, and the leva- tores ani; and it frequently extends to other muscles, more especially those of the buttocks and the abductors of the thighs. When such a patient presents herself for advice the gentlest attempt at examination usually calls forth similar phenomena and fails in its object. Com- plete local investigation is therefore possible only when the patient is anaesthetised, and in a well-marked case, unless the anaesthesia is deep, a touch on the genitals immediately calls forth the spasm. Careful examination may fail to disclose any abnormal physical condition ; more frequently lesions are discovered, though these are often slight in appearance. The most common appearance found consists in red spots and patches at the urethral meatus, and in the vulva just outside the hymen or its remains. Sometimes one or more of the carunculse myrti- formes shows the same red patches, which are due to thinning of the epithelium accompanied by increased vascularity and round-celled in- filtration of the superficial layers of the corium. In other cases small fissures or excoriations may be present at the entrance of the vagina. Occa- sionally a more remote cause may be found for the spasm, such as vaginitis, a prolapsed ovary, or a fissure of the anus. Opinions differ widely as to the essential cause of the spasm. According to one group of authors, some painful local condition is always the determining factor, and where no lesion can be discovered at the time of examination it is supposed that, after originating the vaginismus, the local condition has healed and left no trace. According to another set of observers, the affec- tion is a neurosis, and is set up by crude or imperfect attempts at coitus. It is probable that each of these theories expresses a part of the truth, and that in some cases the condition is a pure neurosis, but much more frequently the spasm is set up by some small injury or painful inflammatory condition. In many cases it has appeared to the present writer that the exciting cause has been a result of gonorrhoeal inflammation of the urethra and vulva, probably derived from a chronic urethritis or gleet in the husband. The treatment calls for much patience and tact; any local lesion that may be discovered must be treated, and cautious inquiries should be made into the husband's condition, so that any lesion in him may be treated at the same time as the vaginismus. The most successful treatment consists in forcible digital dilatation of the vulva under an anaesthetic, followed by the daily passage of a vaginal dilator. For this latter purpose Hegar's dilators do very well. At first cocaine should be applied to the vulva before passing the bougie; a small size is used to begin with, and after being passed is fixed in position with a T-bandage and retained for one or two hours. Each day a larger size should be passed, until a dilator 1 inch can be used; then the bougies should be passed daily without the use of cocaine, again beginning with a smaller number and gradually increasing the size. It is of great importance not to cause pain during the passage of these bougies ; other- wise the patient's confidence is destroyed. No undue haste should therefore be employed in increasing the size of the bougies. The treat- ment usually extends over at least three weeks, and may be considered complete when a bougie 1 inch in diameter can be passed without cocaine. New Formations Vaginal Cysts. — Cysts in the wall of the vagina are not in all cases derived from the elements of the vaginal wall itself, but on account of their common situation it is con- venient to consider all such cysts together. They may arise from Gartner's duct, from the glands that are occasionally found in the vagina, or by adhesion of the contiguous summits of folds of the mucous membrane. Possibly also certain of them may be derived from dilatation of the lymphatic vessels, or as the end results of injuries which have given rise to hsematoma. From some or all of these sources vaginal cysts are fairly common; they rarely give rise to symptoms, and thus are usually discovered acci- dentally. As a rule varying in size from a pea to a walnut, they are occasionally larger and may rarely attain to the size of a child's head, in which cases they may seriously interfere with labour and the other functions of the pelvic organs. Cysts are most frequently found in the anterior and lateral walls of the vagina, but are not rare on the posterior wall; they are usually superficial, and over the apex the mucous mem- brane is often thinned so that the cyst contents are seen shining through ; rarely a cyst may become pedunculated. The smaller cysts ex- tend into the para-vaginal connective tissue; the larger ones may extend upwards to the side of the uterus and spread into the parametrium. Frequently more than one cyst is present, and several are sometimes found arranged in a series parallel to the longitudinal axis of the vagina. Diagnosis is easy on combined examination by the vagina and abdominal wall, aided, if neces- sary, by the finger in the rectum and a sound in the bladder. The consistence is more or less firm elastic. The best treatment is by excision, but this is frequently not possible, the wall of the cyst forming merely a condensed layer of the surrounding connective tissue. Where ex- cision is possible the resulting wound may be brought together by superimposed layers of suture, or may be packed with gauze and allowed to granulate. A simple incision into the cyst is useless. Where excision cannot be done, a