URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 280 added instead of acetic acid, after boiling ; but if the urine be boiled after the addition of nitric acid, albumin if present may escape detection, owing to the formation of a soluble compound with the acid. If carefully performed, the possible sources of error being taken into account, the heat test suffices for all ordinary purposes, but when there remains any doubt its indications should be checked by a second test. Heller's Test.—The urine is allowed to flow gently on to the surface of nitric acid in a test- tube. The pouring is best effected by placing the urine and the acid in two tubes which are inclined to each other at a very obtuse angle, or the acid may be introduced beneath the urine by means of a finely pointed pipette. If albumin be present an opaque white layer forms at the junction of the two liquids. Some pig- mentation is usually observed owing to the oxi- dation of indigo-yielding substances. If nucleo- albumin be present a less defined and less opaque ring appears above the junction of the liquids. Another possible source of error is the precipitation of a ring of uric acid, which also lies above the junction, so that if the urine be albuminous two distinct rings, one due to uric acid and the other to albumin, are sometimes visible. The uric ring is removed by heating. Occasionally a ring of precipitated nitrate of urea is formed, but this is easily recognised by its obviously crystalline character. Both these latter sources of error may be eliminated by repeating the test with diluted urine. Lastly, the precipitation of copaiba resin must also be referred to. The test is a delicate one, and as little as 0-002 per cent of albumin can be readily de- tected by its means. Still greater delicacy can be obtained by using a wine-glass or small beaker in place of a test-tube, and so observing a thicker layer of liquid. In addition to serum-albumin and paraglobulin, hetero- and proto-albumoses yield positive results with this test. Salicyl-Sulphonic Acid.—-This test was inde- pendently suggested by Roch and Mac William. A few drops of a saturated solution of salicyl- sulphonic acid are added to the urine in the cold. If a precipitate forms it is due to albumin or to albumose, but the albumose precipitate disappears when the liquid is heated, whereas that of albumin persists. The test, although almost too delicate, is very useful for clinical purposes, and it has the advantage that with the exception of the proteids, including nucleo- albumin, no other substances present in the urine are precipitated by the reagent employed. Picric Acid Test.—This test is extensively used. It may either be carried out as a ring test by pouring a saturated solution of picric acid upon the surface of the suspected urine, when if albumin be present a precipitate forms at the junction of the liquids, or the urine may be allowed to fall drop by drop into the picric acid solution, when the paths of the drops will be marked by opaque tracks if the urine contain albumin. Albumoses are also precipitated, but their precipitates disappear on heating, and certain non-proteid constituents, such as uric acid and creatinin, yield precipitates with picric acid. In connection with albumoses it must be pointed out that, as Huppert has shown, normal urine yields a flocculent precipitate when boiled with picric acid. When this test is employed it is necessary that the picric acid should be in excess. Potassium Ferrocyanide Test.—Acetic acid is added to the urine in excess, and afterwards a few drops of a solution of potassium ferrocyanide ; if albumin be present a dense white precipitate is formed. Albumoses and n\icleo-albumin yield similar precipitates, but the albumose precipi- tates redissolve on heating. If the acetic acid alone causes a turbidity from the precipitation of urates or the mucin- like substance, this should be filtered off before the feri'ocyanide is added. The Quantitative Estimation of Albumin.— For an accurate determination of the amount of albumin (serum-albumin and paraglobulin) in urine, it is necessary to separate and weigh these proteids, but for clinical purposes the method of Esbach affords results which are sufficiently reliable to meet the requirements. Into a specially graduated tube, which is pro- vided with a stand, urine, rendered acid with acetic acid if necessary, is poured up to a certain mark, and a solution of 2 per cent citric acid and 1 per cent picric acid is added until a second mark is reached. The tube is then closed with an indiarubber cork and carefully shaken, so as to insure mixture of the liquids without the production of froth. After standing for twenty-four hours the height of the precipi- tate is read off by means of graduations which indicate the parts of albumin per mille. Varia- tions of temperature constitute the chief source of error in the results. If the urine be very rich in albumin, it requires to be diluted to a known extent before being placed in the albuminometer. Significance of Albuminuria.—Except in those cases in which the albumin present is derived from lower portions of the urinary tract or is due to admixture of semen or vaginal discharges, readily detected albuminuria may, as has been already stated, be held to indicate some ab- normal condition in the kidneys. Speaking generally, it may be said that serum- albumin makes its way into the urine more easily than paraglobulin, a difference which may result, as Halliburton has suggested, from a greater size of the molecules of the latter pro- teid. Undoubtedly the relative quantities of the two vary widely in different cases, and it