TOXICOLOGY 68 turia, albuminuria, vomiting, and urticaria. In one case great dyspnoea and stridulous breath- ing, with extreme slowness of the pulse, were produced by excessively large doses Creasote when swallowed in poisonous doses produces abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea. Serious symptoms have from time to time been recorded after large or prolonged medicinal doses, and, in an exceptional case, death occurred in five days to a woman of fifty-two, who swallowed three six-drop doses in milk; in this case erosions were found in the oesophagus, the stomach was injected, and the kidneys were acutely inflamed. On the other hand enormous doses have been administered in the treatment of tuberculosis without ill results ; the dose has been gradually increased from one up to a hundred and more drops, and in one case up to two or three quarter drachms twice a day; in this case, however, the patient was made very ill. Alkaloids and Vegetable Poisons Acute alkaloidal poisoning in general is char- acterised by the absence of local mischief, and by the presence of symptoms which are due to absorption of the poison and to its effect on the nerve centres. This is in marked contrast to the effect produced by acute poisoning with inorganic substances, which for the most part is attended by considerable local disorganisation or inflammatory mischief, often with relatively insignificant absorptive effects. The non-alka- loidal organic poisons stand between the in- organic and the alkaloidal poisons as regards the symptoms they produce; they cause more obvious derangement of the tissues than the alkaloids, and they exercise a greater influence, due to absorption, than do the inorganic poisons. In consequence of the absence of local effects, the alkaloids leave scanty post-mortem indica- tions of their action ; so that the sole means of confirming the diagnosis of poisoning made during life consists in the detection, by chemical analysis, of the poison in the viscera after death. Some of the alkaloids, strychnine, for example, are very stable, and, by chemical processes, can readily be separated from organic matter, and recognised even when present in very small amount; others, such as aconitine, by reason of their instability, are difficult to isolate, and when isolated their identity is not capable of being definitely determined by chemical reagents, but demands additional experimentation on some of the lower animals. Strychnine is the most commonly used alka- loidal poison, both by murderers and by suicides ; it also frequently causes accidental death. Symptoms.—In three or four minutes, to a quarter of an hour and occasionally longer, muscular twitchings, accompanied by a feeling of anxiety and impending suifocation, are ex- perienced, followed immediately by violent con- vulsions. The arms and legs are stretched out, the hands are clenched, and the whole of the skeletal muscles are taut and hard; then clonic spasms come on with progressively increasing violence, the head and feet are jerked backwards and the trunk forwards; very soon the spasm becomes tonic, and every muscle is stretched and contracted to the uttermost, the body often being supported on the back of head and the heels (opisthotonos). During the stage of tonic spasm respiration is arrested, or thereabouts, and the patient becomes cyanosed, the pulse being very rapid and feeble. The terror-struck face, prominent eyeballs, and dilated pupils demonstrate the physical pain and the mental anguish experienced by the patient, who is fully conscious of his sufferings and dreads immediate death. When he can speak he cries out for something to be done to relieve his agony. After a minute or more the muscles relax, the eyeballs cease to be prominent, and the pupils resume their usual size ; the respira- tion becomes easier, the cyanosis disappears, and the pulse slows down. The patient lies exhausted, dreading a return of the spasm, which sooner or later recurs, the period of remission lasting from a few seconds to five or ten minutes. If the case is about to terminate fatally the spasms succeed each other rapidly, and death usually takes place within two hours, either from asphyxia or from exhaustion. When recovery takes place the spasms are separated by longer and longer intervals of quiescence, and are less and less violent, the patient usually recovering from the sequential state of feeble- ness and exhaustion in a few days. Treatment. — Chloroform should be adminis- tered by inhalation, so as to enable the stomach- tube to be introduced, with which the stomach is then washed out. If the stomach-pump is not available an emetic should be given, as spontaneous vomiting rarely occurs. Chloral hydrate may afterwards be given—if necessary by being injected under the skin—in ten- or twenty-grain doses, dissolved in water and repeated until the spasms cease. If the patient can swallow, twenty grains may be given by the mouth and repeated as often as necessary. If death from asphyxia is threatened artificial respiration should be resorted to. Fatal Dose.—Half a grain of strychnine sul- phate caused death in twenty minutes ; a little over a grain has frequently proved fatal. Re- covery has taken place after ten and even twenty grains. Exceptionally, the symptoms do not commence for one or even two hours after the poison was swallowed. Death also may be delayed for three, or even seven hours; when a narcotic is taken with the strychnine still longer periods of survival have been recorded. There are no characteristic post-mortem appearances produced by strychnine. Tests.—Strychnine has a bitter taste which,