162 TUMOURS in the corporeal endometrium, and its extreme rarity in the mucous membrane of the Fallopian tubes, are significant facts in relation to invasion by micro-parasites. The greatest difficulty in connection with the micro-parasitic or infective theory as to the origin of cancer is the extra- ordinary fact that the secondary nodules are structurally identical with the primary tumour independently of the tissue in which they are deposited. This is quite contrary to the be- haviour of disseminated foci in such typical micro-parasitic diseases as glanders and tuber- culosis. It is possible that in cancer the cell- emboli with the micro-parasite when lodged in foreign tissue multiply in virtue of the presence of the parasite. However, the latter is as yet purely hypothetical. It has already been mentioned that the frequency with which cancer attacks secreting glands varies greatly. In some it is fearfully common, in others extremely rare, and in a few almost unknown. Although lymph-gland in- fection and dissemination occur in all forms, nevertheless there is great variation: for ex- ample lymph-gland infection is a most common and striking feature of squamous-celled cancer (epithelioma), especially when it occurs near the mouth, anus, or on the scrotum, and dis- semination is the exception. Yet in the peculiar form of cancer which attacks the face (rodent ulcer) lymph-gland infection is a very rare phenomenon and dissemination unknown. In mammary cancer the lymph glands are early infected and wide dissemination is the rule. In cancer of the neck of the uterus, enlarged lymph glands and dissemination only occur in the late stages of the disease. The situation of secondary nodules can with a fair measure of success be foretold. Thus in mammary cancer it is the lungs which are most commonly infected : when the intestine is the seat of the primary disease the liver becomes the repository of the secondary nodules, and when the cancer erodes its way into a serous cavity it may directly infect it. This is seen when the primary disease is in the ovary, in- testine, or gall-bladder. It is an unexplained fact that some organs though frequently occupied by secondary de- posits are rarely attacked primarily : this is true especially of the lung and liver. Cancer, though structurally the same in all the situations in which it occurs, and exhibits all the dangerous features of this disease in regard to infection and dissemination, neverthe- less displays great variation in its effects accord- ing to the secreting gland in which it arises. All these peculiarities, as well as the variations in age-liability, modes of death, and the re- sults which follow surgical interference, will be most appropriately dealt with in the articles devoted to the particular consideration of each organ. Group 3.—Dermoids These are tumours furnished with skin or mucous membrane occurring in situations where these structures are not found under normal conditions. They only possess tissues which naturally belong to skin or mucous membrane. Dermoids may be arranged in four genera :—1. Sequestration Dermoids ; 2. Tubulo-dermoids ; 3. Dermoid Patches (moles); and 4. Ovarian Dermoids. 1. Sequestration Dermoids.—These arise in detached or sequestrated portions of skin chiefly in situations where, during embryonic life, coalescence takes place between cutaneous sur- faces. Thus they are met with in the middle line of the back ; in the scrotum ; in the middle line of the sternum, and more especially in the situation of the facial fissures. They also occur frequently on the scalp. As a rule they do not exceed the dimensions of a tangerine orange, but occasionally they attain the size of a cocoa- nut. They are congenital, and consist of a central cavity lined with skin furnished with hair and the cutaneous appendages met with in the normal skin adjacent to the dermoid. As a rule a sequestration dermoid is not inimical to life. Occasionally, however, a dermoid in con- nection with the cranial dura mater will lead to fatal intracranial pressure, and a dermoid of the spinal dura mater has produced death from paraplegia. A dermoid arising from the in- ternal aspect of the chest-wall will interfere with the lung, and if air gain access to it will simu- late an empyema complicated with what is known as " hair-spitting." 2. Tnhulo-Dermoids.—This species arises in connection with what are known as obsolete canals, e.g. the branchial clefts, the post-anal gut, and the thyro-glossal duct. Dermoids aris- ing in the neck in relation with the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle have long been associated with the branchial clefts. On the other hand, tumours of this character occupying the floor of the mouth or situated between the genio-hyo-glossi muscles have been many times observed, but were described as sebaceous cysts. A more thorough examination of their structure, aided by a better knowledge of the details of the development of the tongue and mouth, has proved that they are dermoids, and that many of them arise in the glossal segment of the temporary passage between the tongue and the embryonic thyroid gland, known as the thyro-glossal duct. Post-Rectal Dermoids are by many associated with the extension of the primary gut which, in the embryo, extends behind the anus, and which for a time is in communication with the central canal of the spinal cord by means of the neurenteric canal. The best examples of der- moids arising in the post-anal gut are always congenital, and generally of large size, and