WRIST-JOINT INJURIES 549 A further examination of these specimens shows that, where the fractures remain suffi- ciently distinct in ovitline to trace their details exactly, the impaction of the fragments is recip- rocal (Fig. 7); that while the posterior surface of the upper pierces the lower, the anterior of the lower penetrates the upper, it may even B Fig. 3. lead to its splintering. This conclusion is at variance with the opinion of Voillemier ; but I believe the explanation of the discrepancy be- tween us is, that hitherto the examination of comminuted specimens has not been made with sufficient care. I believe that in many (Fig. 2) fractures no impaction whatever occurs, and again that in many injuries, Voillemier's third variety, the bending of the anterior wall with posterior impaction occurs. I cannot resist the conclusion to which this collection leads, that in comminuted fractures, which occur in propor- tion to injuries without secondary fractures of the carpal surface almost in the ratio 5:7, the characters are constant and the result of re- ciprocal impaction of the fragments. The following appear to be the chief com- plications of Colles' fracture so far as the specimens preserved in our collection illustrate them :— 1. Necrosis of the lower fragment. 2. Fracture of the shaft of the radius higher up. 3. Fracture of both bones of the forearm, also higher up. 4. Fracture of the styloid process of the ulna. 1. The fracture in which necrosis occurred is entirely exceptional ; the injury was in all re- spects of the ordinary type, without excessive deformity or any wound. On the patient, of thirty-five years of age, resuming work at the close of the treatment, which lasted about five weeks, the limb suddenly swelled and abscesses formed, leading finally to amputation. 2. The fractures of the radius alone, higher up, are seen in two instances where the usual distortions of such injuries are absent, or at least very slightly marked; phenomena which I have myself noticed in this complication oc- curring in the living, the Colles' fracture, so to speak, taking precedence in establishing its defor- mity, while the fracture of the shaft was dis- coverable chiefly by its pain and local crepitus. 3. In another specimen, where both bones are broken, the radius very high up, the features of the fracture suggest its having occurred inde- pendently of the Colles' fracture. 4. In the instance of fracture of the ulnar sty- loid the characters of this complication are well seen (Fig. 2). These specimens were more numerous than the collection shows, for I have, in dissecting some now not characteristic specimens, noticed this lesion, but the little frag- ment of bone is lost in maceration or after the specimens dry. I am confident that in all the fracture occurs as in the examples preserved— a fracture of the styloid caused by traction on the lateral ligament of the wrist, free of direct Fig. 4. relation to the attachment of the sacciform ligament ; that this fracture unites in the majority by ligament only with very insignifi- cant deformity. I notice these points merely to give expression to the opinion I hold as to this complication, that it is of practical import- ance only as explaining the occasionally severe pain observed at the position of the ulnar