TUBERCULOSIS 149 directly from the diseased cow or indirectly from the inspissated sputum of a phthisical patient, but in the latter case they can seldom collect in large quantities in the milk; and remembering that a large dose is necessary to convey the disease, the probability is that in most cases in which milk is to blame the crowds of bacilli have been derived directly from affected cows. Many cases of infection in man from the use of tuberculous milk are reported in medical literature. Some of these are well known, for example those mentioned by Nocard and Ollivier, but a few less familiar cases may be noted. Baum {Luharsch it. Ostertag, 4 Jahrg. 1897, p. 868) describes several eases. A fourteen-year-old girl of healthy parentage, quite healthy in childhood, died of tuberculosis of the larynx, ileum, and csecum, slight of lungs. It was found that she had been drinking warm milk from a tuberculous cow. Two children of healthy parents throve until weaned, and soon thereafter died of tuberculous meningitis. The milk given was from tuber- culous cows. Another child, six months old, of healthy parents, died of tuberculous meningitis. It had been brought up solely on milk from a tuber- c^ilous cow. A boy, four years of age, died of tuberculosis of the abdominal glands, of the serous mem- branes, and of the lungs. He had been fed on warm milk from a tuberculous cow. Johne {loc. cit. idem) gives a case in which one child, two and a half years old, who had been fed on tuberculous milk, died of acute miliary tuberculosis. Another child of the same family, who had not been exposed to the same infection, remained sound. Ebers reports six cases, collected by several observers, of tuberculosis in children, attributed to the milk of tuberculous cows. {Lubarsch u. Ostertag, 1899.) Bang, through inquiries in Denmark, has collected reports of nine persons in whom in- fection could be traced with reasonable certainty to milk from tuberculous cows. (Quoted by Strauss.) Von Ruck reports the cases of a father and child which are very convincing, and says that he has observed several others in which there was very good reason to believe that milk was the agent of transmission of the tubercle bacillus. (Jl. of Tuberculosis, Ap. 1899.) Klebs and Rievel have recently reported two cases which came under the observation of the former. A healthy young man employed by Klebs to assist in making some investigations on milk infection had the habit of drinking the milk of the tuberculous cows used in the ex- periment. In a few months he died of miliary tuberculosis. The second case was of a child who died at the age of two years of tuberculosis of the cord and meninges. This child was the only one out of six fed on cow's milk and the only one that developed tuberculosis. (Deut. thierartz. Woch, Jan. 18, 1892. Quoted by Ravenel.) Similar cases might be multiplied. Epitomising the case against milk, we may conclude that tuberculous milk can cause disease, but, as a rule, only in weakly individuals whose resistance is greatly lowered, and secondly, that such milk is dangerous only when the bacilli are present in great numbers or when it is ingested for a length of time. Natural Infection by the Cutaneous Surface It is well known that pathologists and assist- ants in post-mortem rooms often develop tuber- culous warts on the fingers. It is also known that butchers develop similar warts, the infection having been received in cutting up the carcases of tuberculous cattle. Veterinary surgeons are also occasionally in- oculated in a similar way. Take, for example, the well-known cases reported by Pfeiffer and Tscherning. Ravenel, in the paper in the University of Pennsylvania Med. B%dl., July 1902, formerly referred to, gives the four following additional instances :— Dr. Kurt Mueller {Zeitsch.f. Fleisch- u. Milch- hyg., Feb. 1902), a surgeon of Erfort, describes the cases of two healthy young men who were under his care. Both were butchers, and in both cuts were sustained while working on tuberculous cattle, the wound opening the synovial sheath of a tendon in the hand. In each case an operation was necessary, and it was found that the wall of the sheath, as well as the tendon itself, were thickened, while upon them were large numbers of yellow nodules, proven to be tubercles by microscopical ex- amination. These tubercles were placed very thickly near the scar, gradually becoming fewer as the scar was left. In one of the men the trouble extended from the finger to the forearm, and there was some evidence of tuberculosis even at the muscular attachment of the tendon. In the second case the tendon was attached to the sheath, and the disease limited to an area 10 cm. in length. Examination of the removed tissue proved the presence of tubercle bacilli. Both of these men had good family histories, and were free from tuberculosis elsewhere, so that Dr. Mueller has no doubt that they were inoculated with bovine tubercle bacilli. De Jong {La Semaine Med., Jan. 15, 1902) observed the case of a man who injured his finger while examining the mesentery of a tuberculous cow. The wound did not heal, the edges be- came indurated, and considerable swelling ensued, with pain which increased steadily and failed to yield to ordinary treatment. Curettage