586 YAWS removed painlessly, and the surface underneath is insensitive, a somewhat important diagnostic point which is used as a rough test by West Indian negroes, who squeeze the juice of a lime over it. After removal the growth is seen to be grey or red in colour. Some oozing of blood may occur from it, and it at once begins by pouring out fresh cheesy secretion to form a new cap. The yaws vary greatly in number, size, and distribution ; they may be localised or general, but are apt to involve the exposed parts, face and limbs rather than the trunk, and the scalp is usually unaffected. They do not involve the mucous membranes, except around the mouth, nose, and anus; and this, according to NichoUs, occurs in about 2-8 per cent. Near a nail they may cause a trouble- some onychia. Several surrounding an area of healthy skin constitute "ringworm yaws." When, as not infrequently happens, one yaw grows much more rapidly and to a larger size than the others, it is often particularly per- sistent and obstinate, and constitutes the so- called mother-yaw or mamma-pian. Situated on the sole of the foot (tubboes), from the pressure of the thickened skin the yaw is forced out in a coral-like formation, undermining the latter, and from tension and the irritation of walking this form is extremely painful. Finally, it undermines the epidermis with pus, ruptures it, and appears as a fungoid, often foetid, tumour (crab-yaw). Although ulceration is not a normal part of the history of a yaw, it occurs in a certain pro- portion, and may spread beyond them, producing extensive sores with resulting deformity from cicatrisation. It is due to the entry of pyogenic organisms, and probably varies with constitu- tional condition and care in treatment. Nicholls' estimate of 8 per cent seems somewhat low in the writer's experience in Africa. This stage of eruption may last from weeks to years. Occasionally many recurrences may take place after apparent convalescence (niemba yaws), and extend the duration to years. The tumours mature in about a fortnight, remain stationary perhaps for a time, then the crust shrinks, darkens, dries, and finally falls off, leaving a pigmented spot. Any acute intercurrent disease may result in the disappearance of the eruption, although this is, as a rule, only temporary. It has been seen after remittent fever, dysenterj^, and so on. One attack usually confers protection, but true second attacks have been recorded. Complications and Sequela;.—In addition to the not infrequent ulceration attacking the growth itself, a form of serpiginous ulceration of the limbs has also been described. Powell has recently reported swelling of the phalanges as occurring in a mother and child during the third year of illness. Both conditions are de- cidedly rare. In Fiji, where syphilis is un- known, lupoid ulceration of the soft palate or nose and gummatous nodes or thickenings have also been reported by Daniels, Corney, Finucane, and others ; and very similar symptoms were recorded by Rat in the West Indies. This, however, is not the general experience, and there seem to be some differences between yaws in Fiji and that usually seen in Africa and elsewhere. Etiology.—That yaws is communicable may be regarded as proved by numerous accidental inoculations, and by the experiments of Charlouis and Paulet, who successfully inoculated cases artificially. The teaching of experience would also seem to show that it can be propagated by contact, but that some solution of continuity of the skin is necessary. Thus, vaccine vesicles, ulcers, including those of syphilis and leprosy, the bites of leeches, ticks, mosquitoes, or other insects, scratches, or other wounds, may all act as portals to the virus of the disease. Over- crowding, filthy habits, and defective diet, naturally predispose to and aggravate its at- tacks. Sex has no special influence, but the age of greatest liability is that from five to fifteen, although no age is exempt. Its essentially tropical distribution and the far greater liability of negroes as compared to white men are also well-known facts. The com- parative immunity of Europeans is doubtless largely due to the protective influence of clothing, their greater attention to hygiene and avoidance of yaws patients, and of overcrowding. Second attacks occur and have been produced by inoculation (Charlouis), but are not common, and natives in Fiji expose their children to infection with the idea that their health is subsequently improved. A very similar idea prevails in some native villages on the Niger. A form of yaws occurs in fowls, but animals are not subject to it as they are to verruga. Infection appears to cling to huts, and after heavy rains outbreaks occasionally occur, due probably to the inhabitants being more con- fined to their huts on these occasions. The common house-fly and the clothes and mats of infected persons are, with considerable reason, regarded as frequent vehicles of infection. delation to Syphilis. — By Hutchison and others yaws is looked upon as possibly the parent form of syphilis, and as merely that disease modified by race, climate, and erratic modes of infection. By the majority of those, on the other hand, who have studied it in its own haunts, it is regarded as a distinct disease, and the writer's experience in Africa leads him to a similar opinion. Finucane's recent descrip- tion, however, of Fijian yaws would seem to indicate a far closer resemblance to syphilis than is usual elsewhere, although Daniels con- siders the type in Fiji and in the West Indies to be identical. The chief argument (and one apparently un-