UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE 365 eluded. This disease is very common between the fortieth and the fiftieth years ; many cases occur between the thirtieth and the fortieth years. Before the thirtieth year the disease is rare, but the writer has observed undoubted Fig. 3. The microscopic characters and disposition of the epithelium on the vaginal aspect of the neck of the uterus. cases in women of twenty-three, twenty-five, and twenty-six years. Cancer of the neck of the uterus belongs especially to the latter part of the child-bearing period of life and the decade subsequent to the menopause. It is not easy to determine whether this predisposition depends on injury to the cervix due to delivery, or to traumatism associated with coitus. A remark- able observation bearing on this matter has been made by Czerwenka. A woman, thirty- five years of age, had a double vagina and " uterus bicornis bicollis." Coitus was practised on the left vagina. Panhysterectomy was per- formed because of cancer of the left cervix ; the left uterus contained two fibroids, and the corresponding Fallopian tube contained pus and had its coelomic ostium occluded. The relation of pregnancy to cancer of the neck of the uterus is shown in the table on p. 369. Cancer may begin at any part of the cervix from the internal orifice of the cervical canal to its junction with the vaginal wall. The character of the epithelium determines the microscopic features of the cancer. Thus when the disease begins on any part of the vaginal aspect of the cervix, the cancer is of the squamous-celled (epithelioma) species ; but when it arises from the cervical endometrium its distinguishing epi- thelium is of the columnar type (Fig. 4). A great amount of careful labour has been expended on the microscopic examination of cancer of the neck of the uterus, with the hope of determining the relative frequency of squamous- celled and of glandular carcinoma. So far as the writer's efforts were concerned, his object was to decide if possible which species gave the best result to treatment. In a small propor- tion of cases, and especially those in the very early stages, it is a simple histologic exercise to determine the species, but unfortunately in the advanced cases it is not an easy, and certainly in some instances an impossible task to deter- mine whether it be a squamous-celled or a gland-celled cancer. Some of the confusion in recent writings is due to the neglect of the fact, that when a cancer orginating in the epi- thelium of the cervical endometrium over- runs the vaginal surface of the cervix it assumes the squamous-celled or stratified arrangement. This mutation of epithe- lium may be studied in the case of cancer of the rectum ; when the disease involves the outlet of the bowel, the anal portion often has the structure of squamous- celled cancer, whereas the epithelium of the primary rectal tumour retains its columnar character. With our present means of investigation it is hazardous to attempt a prediction simply on the cell features of the cancer. Mutation of epithelium may also be studied in a uterine polypus. For ex- ample, a polypus arising in the endo- metrium will be clothed with mucous mem- brane, covered with a single layer of columnar epithelium, but when the tumour protrudes into the vagina, the epithelium of the portion resting on the vagina stratifies and resembles the epi- I'lG. 4.—The microscopic characters of cancer beginning in the endometrium of the cervical canal. (From the writer's book on Diseases of Women.) thelial covering of the vagina. In a small pedunculated polypus of the cervical endo- metrium it is an interesting task to cut sections through the whole length of tumour, and study the transition in the epithelium. This peculiar change in the epithelium has been erroneously described as squamous-celled cancer arising in a uterine polypus.