576 X-RAYS be desired—soft, white, and yielding, with no tendency to contract and cause distortion of the face or eyelids, as so frequently happens when operative procedure is undertaken. For Rontgen ray dermatitis, see p. 566. Dr. Norman Walker showed a case of lupus with marked ectropion to the Edin. Med. Chir. Society in Nov. 6, 1901 ; under the influence of the Rontgen i-ays the exposed mucous membrane changed into what was, to all practical purposes, skin. Other Skin Diseases. —• In the other skin diseases enumerated above encouraging results have been recorded by various observers, but, except in favus, enough statistics have not yet been gathered to determine the proper place of this treatment. The intractable diseases, favus, mycosis fun- goides and xeroderma pigmentosum, appear to be particiilarly amenable to the Rontgen rays, and Dr. Allan Jamiesori exhibited cases of the two latter to the Edin. Med. Chir. Society which he had apparently cured by this treatment. Rodent TJlcer.—The treatment of rodent vdcer by the Rontgen rays is usually very successful; many such cases have now been recorded. Sometimes the action of the rays may be re- inforced by a course of the Finsen light, as in the following case exhibited by the author at the Med. Chir. Society in Jan. 1902 :— Case.—A man, aged fifty-five, recommended by Professor Annandale, was admitted to the electrical department of the Royal Infirmary on 4th December 1901. The patient had suffered for the last eight years from a rodent ulcer on the right side of the nose which had been treated unsuccessfully in many different ways. The ulcer was bean-shaped and about the size of a small mussel shell, covered with brown crusts, which when removed left an irregular depression ^ to J inch in depth, with a raw greyish granular surface and shelving edges. Treatment by Rontgen rays was commenced on 4th December 1901, with exposures of five minutes daily. Slow but steady improvement followed until 10th January 1902, when the X-ray treatment was replaced by exposures of from two and a half to five minutes to the condenser spark Finsen light {see p. 579) through rock salt three times a week. Three days after the first exposure marked improvement was observed, and after three exposures the ulcer had almost disappeared. After five exposures the patient returned home, the only trace of the disease that remained con- sisting of some slight scales towards the upper margin of what had been the ulcer (Turner's Med. Elect., p. 373). This case is important because it gives an indication of what may be a more useful mode of treatment than either the Rontgen rays or Finsen light alone. The same procedure is recommended by Schiff in cases of lupus. It will be found in cases of rodent ulcer that under treatment by the X-rays the surface dries up. the advancing margin disappears, and the ulcer ultimately heals over by granulations. In many cases of rodent ulcer the pressure neces- sary for the treatment by Finsen light cannot be borne, and the same is true of ulcerating cases of cancer, but the X-rays can always be made use of. Cases have been recently recorded of the successful treatment of this disease by high frequency currents (see p. 582). Mr. Mayon has recently contributed to the Rontgen Society some remarks on the treatment of rodent ulcer of the eyelids by X-rays {Archives of the Rontgen Ray, January 1903); he regards the action of the X-rays as due to the inflammatory process which they set up. If a section of rodent ulcer after it has just begun to react to X-rays be examined, we find the clumps of epithelial cells which make up the growth are surrounded with enormous numbers of leucocytes. In a section of rodent ulcer which has nearly healed we find a mass of granulation tissue organising, with healthy epithelium growing in from the edges ; scattered here and there among the infiltration leucocytes are epithelial cells of the growth in various stages of degeneration. The whole process is purely inflammatory, the inflammation being increased in the neighbour- hood of the growth owing to the irritant action of the rodent epithelial cells. Mr. Mayon's reasons for this are— 1. These are the only histological changes found. 2. The sections showed direct invasion of the clumps of rodent cells by leucocytes. 3. The clumps degenerated from without inwards towards their centre; that is to say, the cells in contact with the leucocytes de- generate first, the innermost cells showing no change at that time. In treating a rodent ulcer, Mr. Mayon re- moves portions of the growth from time to time to see if there are any active cells of the growth present, and when they have all disappeared to cease the treatment. Cancer and Sarcoma.—It may be claimed that the X-rays now have a definite place in the treatment of malignant disease, and that is in inoperable external cases, but evidence is accumulating that they may also be found of value in internal cases. The clinical results of the treatment are :— 1. To remove or diminish the pain. 2. To loosen adhesions and to cause the dis- appearance of the contracting and tightening sensation of scirrhus. 3. To cause an ulcerating and sloughing surface to take on a healthy and healing aspect, and to diminish in size through the growth of epithelium from the edges, and even, as in two cases of the author's, to become completely covered with healthy skin. 4. To dissipate and remove cancerous and sarcomatous tumours.