UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE 374 parts as aseptic as possible with such antiseptic solutions as the operator is accustomed to use. The writer finds a solution of perchloride of mercury (1 in 5000) a very efficient antiseptic agent for the skin. The bowels should be very thoroughly emptied by enemata, and the patient should abstain from food or drink for at least six hours preceding the operation, and the bladder is emptied by a glass catheter immedi- ately before the patient lies on the table. In regard to instruments they should be of metal throughout, as this facilitates the sterilisation, whether by boiling or the application of dry heat. The ligature material in common use is silk ; it can be obtained of any thickness and length, and will stand boiling for half an hour or even longer without impairing its strength. The same is true of silkworm gut. Catgut cannot be boiled, and should be discarded as a ligature material. For dabs the writer employs squares of Gamgee tissue carefully hemmed ; they may be cut of any size or pattern, and should be boiled for one hour immediately before use. This material is cheap, capable of easy and efiicient sterilisation, and has usurped animal sponges in surgical practice. They are burnt after each operation. It is unnecessary to give minutely every detail in the preparation and sterilisation of material and instruments, for it may be assumed that no one would undertake such a serious operation as the removal of the uterus without some previous experience in operative surgery ; most surgeons have had opportunities of witness- ing the operation, or, what is infinitely better, assisting a skilful and experienced surgeon in the performance of hysterectomy. Abdominal Hysterectomy. — The preparation of the patient is described in the preceding remarks. For the satisfactory performance of this operation the Trendelenberg position is indispensable. Instruments.—A scalpel; twelve htemostatic forceps ; dissecting forceps ; scissors ; needles, straight and curved; silks of various sizes; volsella; six dabs of Gamgee tissue; two sponge- holders ; silkworm gut. These instruments are necessary, and are quite sufiicient for good operators. The instruments should be immersed in warm sterilised water, and the dabs should be washed in water (at 100° F.) during the operation. The anfesthetic depends on choice; some surgeons insist on chloroform. Ether adminis- tered by a skilful anaesthetist is the safest agent yet discovered for prolonged anaesthesia. Artificial temporary paraplegia from subdural injections of cocaine or its allies is yet in the experimental stage. It is important when the patient is in the Trendelenberg position to ensure that the arms lie parallel with the trunk. This avoids pressure-palsy of the limbs, and prevents the hands and fingers being nipped when the table is restored to its horizontal position. Steps of the Operation.—When the patient is completely unconscious, and the nightdress and other simple covering are isolated with sterilised towels, the surgeon freely incises the wall of the abdomen in the middle line midway between the umbilicus and the pubes. The actual length of the cut varies with the condition of the patient and the size of the uterus. Fat patients require long incisions, and it is easier to gain access to the uterus with a short incision when the parietes are thin and lax in women who have had children than in those that are barren. The length of the incision has no influence on the result of the operation, but a free incision greatly facilitates the necessary manipulations. As soon as the uterus is exposed it is isolated from the intestines and omentum by dabs, and the uterus can be seized at the fundus by a volsella and drawn into the wound. Each mesometrium (broad ligament) is then trans- fixed and ligatured with silk in order to secure the ovarian vessels, or they may be seized with forceps and ligatured at a subsequent stage. When the surgeon wishes to leave the ovaries he secures the mesometrium between the uterus and the ovary; but when he decides to remove the ovaries as well as the uterus, and this is the preferable practice in cases of cancer, the mesometrium is ligatured near the brim of the pelvis on the outer side of the ovary. As soon as the mesometria are divided the uterus can easily be drawn out of the pelvis, and the uterine arteries are usually detected running upwards in the vascular tract on each side of the organ ; these should be secured with forceps. A peritoneal flap is then turned down from the anterior surface of the uterus, care being taken not to injure the bladder. A similar flap is fashioned from the posterior surface of the uterus, and then the cervix is carefully enucle- ated from the upper end of the vagina. In favourable cases it often happens that when the peritoneal connections of the uterus are divided and the organ well drawn up, the mucous membrane attachment of the cervix will invaginate like the finger of a glove; the vaginal mucous membrane is then divided, and the surgeon is able to pass his finger into the vagina. The various bleeding points are secured with forceps, and any free blood or clot occupy- ing the pelvis is removed. The uterine arteries are carefully secured with silk; the ovarian pedicles are transfixed and ligatured with silk as in the operation of ovariotomy. The anterior and posterior peritoneal flaps are brought into apposition with sutures, care being taken not to puncture the bladder. Any oozing points are seized and tied; then the edges of the peritoneal flap are finally secured with a con- tinuous suture of thin silk, which extends from