URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 275 cases of hsematoporphyrinuria blackness is pro- duced by other less known dark pigments which are usually present with hsematoporphyrin in such cases. Urines rich in biliverdin may have a rich green colour, but green and blue urines usually owe their tint to smaller or larger quantities of methylene-blue, which is sometimes given as a drug and is sometimes contained in sweetmeats. Suspended indigo may produce a blue scum upon the surface of an alkaline urine, and occasionally imparts a bluish tint to the whole. Very scanty pigmentation may be due to a deficiency of urochrome, and the urine of young infants is often almost colourless. A similar want of colour may be due to dilution, as in all kinds of polyuria, and especially in diabetes insipidus, in which dilution reaches its most extreme degree. Toxicity.—-When urine is injected into the circulation of animals it causes their death, but different species of animals differ in the ease with which they succumb to such poisoning. Bouchard found that 45 c.c. of normal human urine per kilo of body-weight was fatal to rabbits. The nature of the constituent or con- stituents which produce this effect has been much discussed, and is still to some extent an open question. The only point clearly established is that the toxic properties reside, in the main, in the inorganic constituents, and that of these the potassium salts are at any rate the most potent in this respect. The various organic constituents, such as urea, uric acid, kreatinine and pigments have been shown one by one to be incapable of producing the effect, at least in such amounts as are present in the quantities of urine experimented with, but it is held by some that although the toxicity is mainly due to potassium, other constituents contribute to the fatal results. Herringham in a recent re- search found a close correspondence to exist between the toxicity of the urine and the amounts of potassium contained in it, and similar results had previously been obtained by other observers. Charrin and Roger, on the other hand, failed to trace such a correspondence. The toxic symptoms are, moreover, such as result from poisoning with salts of potassium. III. The Inorganic Constituents of Urine It will be convenient to commence the review of the several constituents of the urine in their clinical bearings with the consideration of the simplest of all, viz. the inorganic constituents, in which group may be included hydrochloric, sulphuric, and phosphoric acids, and the metals sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and iron. The quantities of these which are contained in the urine are subject to considerable fluctua- tions under different conditions, and in the case of most of them the influence of diet is so great that it is necessary to take this into account before di'awing any conclusion as to the influence of morbid conditions upon their excretion. To arrive at any valid results it is therefore im- portant to know the amount of the particular acid or base that is being studied in the ingesta as well as in the egesta, both liquid and solid. The Chlorides.—The great bulk of the chlorine excreted in the urine is in the form of sodium chloride, and only a small proportion is com- bined with other bases. Even under normal conditions the daily excretion varies somewhat widely, but quantities corresponding to 10-15 grammes of sodium chloride may be taken as the normal average. The chief factor which determines the varia- tions observed in health is the quantity of sodium chloride taken in and with the food. On a diet poor in salt, or during a period of fasting, the output is conspicuously diminished, whereas when the food is rich in salt the reverse is the case. During the day the quantity excreted in the urine is greater than during the night, and this even in spite of a meal rich in salt taken late in the day. The drinking of large quantities of water increases the excretion, and a similar increase results from a diet rich in potassium salts or from the administration of such salts as drugs. This increase Bunge ascribes to the combination of some of the chloi'ine of the sodium chloride of the blood with potassium, and the elimina- tion of the potassium chloride so formed as of a foreign substance. In chronic diseases the chloride excretion varies, as a rule, with the nature and quantity of the food taken. Von Noorden has observed diminished excretion after copious haemorrhages, which he attributes to the loss with the blood and the retention of the amount of sodium chloride required for the supply of the new plasma which replaces that which has been lost. The variations observed in other forms of anaemia may be attributed to diet, and in pernicious anaemia to the condition of inanition which supervenes. In connection with the excretion of chlorides in gastric diseases it must be remembered that several factors may contribute to influence the output, such as the quantity and quality of the food taken, the amount of hydrochloric acid in the gastric juice which may be lost by vomit- ing, and the interference with absorption which may result from pyloric obstruction. Von Noorden calls attention to the importance of the relation between the excretion of chlorides and that of urea in diseases of the stomach. A simultaneous diminution of both points to simple inanition, whereas scanty chlorides with abundant urea point to breaking down of the proteid tissues, which are poor in sodium chloride, and such a breaking down occurs in