VITAL STATISTICS 489 suffering from lead, phosphorus, or arsenical poisoning, or anthrax, contracted in any factory or workshop, shall send to the chief inspector of factories at the Home Office, London, a notice stating the name and full postal address of the patient, and the disease from which he is suffering—a fee of 2s. 6d. being payable for each notification, and a fine not exceeding 40s. being incurred for failure to notify. The Compulsory Notification of Infectious Diseases is enforced by the Act of 1889, which now applies to the whole country.^ The list of diseases to be notified is as follows :— Smallpox, cholera, diphtheria, membranous croup, erysipelas, the disease known as scar- latina or scarlet fever, and the fevers known by any of the following names : typhus, typhoid, enteric, relapsing, continued, or puerperal, and also any infectious disease to which the Act has been applied by the Local Authority in manner provided by the Act. It is the duty of the medical practitioner to ascertain whether in his own district such dis- eases as whooping-cough and measles have been added to the schedule of notifiable diseases. It is the duty of (a) the head of the family to which the patient belongs; in his default, of (b) the nearest relatives in the house; in their default, (c) of every person in attendance upon the patient; and in default of any such person, (d) of the occupiers of the building, as soon as they become aware that the patient is suffering from an infectious disease to which this Act applies, to send notice thereof to the medical officer of health of the district, (e) The mere formal duty of sending to the medical officer of health a certificate stating the name of the patient, the situation of the building, and the infectious disease from which in his opinion the patient is suffering, is imposed on every medical practitioner attending on, or called in to visit, the patient, on becoming aware that the patient is suffering from an infectious disease to which this Act applies. He is entitled to a fee of 2s. 6d. if tlie case occurs in his private pi'actice, and of Is. if the case occurs in his practice as medical officer of any public body or institution. He is subject to a fine not exceeding 40s. if con- victed of failure to notify. The value of returns of infectious diseases as enabling preventive measures to be taken, is increased by interchange of notification returns of different districts. This is now undertaken weekly for a large number of districts by the Local Government Board, and the Registrar- General publishes quarterly summaries of such returns, as well as weekly returns of infectious diseases for the metropolis. Marriages are usually stated in proportion to the total population, or the number per 1000 of population ; but a more accurate method ^ Except London, where similar powers are given by the Public Health (London) Act. would be to base the marriage-rate, for com- parative purposes, on the number of unmarried persons living at marriageable ages. In Eng- land the marriage-rate is always higher in large towns than in rural districts. Thus in 1900 the marriage-rate in London was 17'6 as com- pared with an average marriage-rate in 1891-95 of 15-2 per 1000 of the estimated population in England and Wales. The higher marriage-rate in towns is chiefly owing to the fact that higher wages and greater scope for remunerative work attract young country people of marriageable ages to towns. Births are usually reckoned as a rate per 1000 of population. Clearly, however, if one population had a larger proportion than another of women of child-bearing years this method of comparsion would not be free from possible error. Even were the proportion of women of child-bearing ages equal, the comparison might be fallacious if in one population the proportion of single women was much higher than in the other. The possibility of illegitimate births does not materially vitiate this conclusion, as such births do not constitute more than 4 per cent of the total births, and their number is not excessive in the districts in which there is the greatest excess of single women, viz. in districts in which a large number of domestic servants are employed. The only strictly accurate method is to subdivide the births into legitimate and illegitimate, stating the former per 1000 married women of child-bearing years, and the latter per 1000 unmarried women of child-bearing years. I append an example of the relative ac- curacy of the three methods above indicated : — BIRTH-RATF). Per 1000 Inhabit- ants. Per 1000 Women ageii 15-4.'i Years. Per 1000 Married Women aged 15-45 Years. Kensington . 21-8 61-6 215-4 Whitechapel . 39-9 172-1 328-3 Percentage excess of birth- rate in Whitechapel over that in Kensington 1 83% 179% 53% A B C Thus, according to the ordinary method (A) of stating the legitimate birth-rate, it is 83 per cent higher in Whitechapel than in Ken- sington, whereas it is really only 53 per cent higher. Similarly, a statement of the illegiti- mate birth-rate in the two districts "per 1000 inhabitants" shows an excess of only 6 per cent in Whitechapel, while a statement "per 1000 unmarried women aged 15 to 45