WOUNDS 540 loss or impairment of function. Further, the tension and other evils will be augmented if any bleeding goes on owing to imperfect hsemostasis. It will be gathered from the foregoing data that, whilst exudation is an inevitable con- comitant of wounds, retention of the products is always harmful, and the supervention of sepsis may imperil or destroy life. Hence it is im- perative to minimise the secretions, protect them from bacterial infection, and facilitate their rapid escape. In the simplest cases of clean incised wounds whose walls can be brought into exact apposition, exudation is so insignifi- cant that it may in practice be disregarded. At the other extreme of the series are the cases in which the most inexperienced will see the obvious necessity for providing wide drainage channels. For the rest it will be wise to apply the prudent aphorism, " when in doubt, drain." The simplest mode of doing this, supposing a wound in which it has been decided to insert sutures, is to leave the dependent angle open so that it may act as a natural drainage outlet. Artificial drainage may be effected in various ways; the objects they all have in common are to establish a route from the interior to the surface, and insert along it a conductor intended to guide discharges out of the wound. The fullest advantage must be taken of gravitation by arranging that the outlet shall be at the lowest point, the position of which will be determined by considerations of posture. Thus it will sometimes be requisite to make a counter- opening at a distance from the wound-edges for the easy drainage of a lowlying pocket, —for instance, where a large flap of scalp is torn down from the vertex. India-rubber tubing, introduced to surgical practice for this purpose by Chassaignac, is a valuable appliance for wound-drainage. Holes are made at intervals in the wall of a vulcanised tube of suitable calibre and length, and this is lodged in the wound so as to meet the requirements of any given case. For easier insertion the inner end may be cut obliquely to a point; the outer end should barely project beyond the surface, like a short spout, to avoid kinking or occlusion by the dressing, and may be prevented from slipping in or out by stitching it to one border of the wound with a single suture,—though, in general, only the former accident needs safe- guarding, and this can be done by the simple device of transfixing the mouth of the tube with a safety-pin. Decalcified bone tubes are sometimes used instead of rubber. Most effi- cient drainage can be ensured by means of strips of gauze (cheese-cloth), which may be plain, or impregnated with an antiseptic, e.g. izal or iodoform. This material acts by capillary attraction, fluids being drawn from the interior and delivered into the dressings. In wounds designedly kept open, the gauze should be brought by light packing into contact with the greatest possible extent of the raw surfaces, in order to secure the rapid withdrawal of every drop of discharge. The increasing employment of capillary drainage in surgical work is tending to restrict the use of tubing, but the latter is undoubtedly of great advantage where the dis- charge is thick or has to be drained through a long fistulous track. A combination of both methods is often very serviceable, a tube being passed to the bottom and surrounded by gauze; or conversely, a wick of gauze may be threaded through an ensheathing tube,—a plan which facilitates subsequent removal of the drain. For a shallow wound, or one with walls but little separated, a narrow strip of gutta-percha tissue or green protective answers well. Satisfactory drains can also be made by knotting together a few strands of catgut or horse-hair : these can be readily placed in position with a probe or sinus forceps. 5. Dressing.—The objects in view here are to defend the wound against fresh infection, to absorb any discharges, and to maintain such a degree of equable pressure as will check oozing, obliterate "dead spaces," and generally support and protect the injured parts. Before applying the dressings it is well to finally cleanse and dry the skin around the wound, and then to squeeze out the last drops of moisture (blood, serum, or lotion), and to maintain the compression as the successive layers of material are applied. For the innermost dressing there is nothing better than gauze,—plain or charged with an anti- septic, e.g. izal, iodoform, double cyanide of mercury and zinc (Lister). This should well cover the wound, and a circular mound of it should surround the drain-exit, at which point more gauze is to be placed than elsewhere. Next follows a liberal supply of absorbent cotton-wool, a good form of which is the Gamgee- tissue introduced by the late Sampson Gamgee. This must extend well beyond the wound in all directions, as otherwise slight displacement would leave the part unguarded. It is often advisable, especially in the case of children, to fix the inner layer of wool to the skin by brush- ing collodion over its margins; or where extra support is desired, straps of adhesive plaster are most useful, and are strongly to be recom- mended in wounds of the abdominal wall, the strapping being cut broad and long. Unless the wool is sufficiently abundant, soakage through may occur and establish a path for infection, but the danger can be lessened by using an antiseptic wool, a course which should certainly be followed when copious exudation is expected. Waterproof material, as jaconet and gutta- percha tissue, placed outside the absorbent wool to intercept discharge coming through and turn it laterally, is not so much employed as formerly. The writer has found non-absorbent (fatty) wool useful for this purpose, and its employ- ment is strongly advocated by Bloch of Copen-