WHOOPING-COUGH 532 powder. Inhalants are undoubtedly of great service, and should be commenced during the catarrhal stage, and continued regularly at intervals during the spasmodic period. Car- bolic acid, No. 4 or 5 of Calvert's, creseline, naphthalin, and lysol are the best. They should be used in a vaporiser with a night-light, and placed on a table at the head of the child's cot at night, and repeated with more or less frequency according to the severity of the case. I generally recommend two or three inhalations of two hours' duration in twenty-four hours in severe cases. I have not found any poisonous effects as a result. In a well-ventilated room there is generally sufficient dilution to prevent this. Under persistent antiseptic inhalations the cough diminishes in frequency and severity. The only other inhalant which is of service in extreme cases when the paroxysm is so bad as to threaten suffocation is the inhalation of chloroform, a few drops on a handkerchief with or without a drop or two of amyl nitrite. Intubation.—This has been lately tried and with good effect in very severe cases when the paroxysms are so frequent and the glottic spasm so severe as to exhaust the child in an alarming manner. O'Dwyer's rubber tube must be used instead of the ordinary metal instrument. The treatment of complications must be con- ducted on general principles applicable to the various conditions, and does not come within the scope of our present remarks. Whytt'S Disease.—Hydrocephalus or tubercular meningitis (after Dr. R. Whytt of Edinburgh, 1714-1766). Wichmann'S Asthma.—Laryngis- mus stridulus (q.v.). Wickersheimer's Fluid. —Two fluids are used, one for injecting specimens and the other for immersing them; both contain arsenious acid with potassium salts, glycerine, etc. Widai'S Reaction. See Blood (Bac- teriological, Widal's Reactio7i in Typhoid Fever); Typhoid Fever {Pathology, Widal's Reaction). Wiesbaden. See Balneology {Germany, Muriated Waters); Mineral Waters {Muriated Saline). Wight, isle of. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {English). Wild bad. »S'ee Balneology {Germany); Mineral Waters {Thermal). Wilde's Incision. See Ear, Acute Inflammation of Middle {Treatment, First Step in Operation). Wildermuth's Ear.—A congenital malformation of the outer ear, consisting in marked prominence of the antihelix. Wildung^en. See Balneology {Ger- many, Calcareous Waters). Wilkinson's Disease.—Paralysis Agitans {q.v.). Wilks' Disease.—Chronic parenchy- matous nephritis; the large white kidney is called Wilks' kidney. See Nephritis {Patho- logical Anatomy^. Will. See Alcoholic Insanity {Clinical Features, Impairment of Will); Aphasia {Will- Making) : Civil Incapacity' (Will-Making); Hysteria {Disorders of the Mental State). WiMan's Lepra.—Psoriasis {q.v.). Willan'S Lupus.—Lupus Vulgaris. See Skin, Tuberculosis of. Williams' Tracheal Tone.—A peculiar dull tympanitic resonance heard some- times in the second intercostal space in cases of great pleural effusion and due to the vibra- tion of air in a large bronchus which is sur- rounded by compressed lung tissue. Williamson's Test.—A blood-test for diabetes depending on the fact that a warm alkaline solution of methylene blue loses its colour when mixed with a small quantity of glucose. Wi Mich's Formula. See Vital Sta- tistics {Expectation of Life). Willis, Circle of.—The system of inosculating arteries at the base of the brain. See Brain, Physiology of {Blood-Supply, Circle of Willis). Willis' Disease. — Diabetes Mellitus {q.v.). Willis' Glands.—The corpora albicantia in the interpeduncular space at the base of the brain. Willis' Nerve.—The spinal accessory nerve {q.v.). Wilson's Disease. — Dermatitis ex- pliativa. Winckel's Disease. — Hsemoglobin- uria neonatorum or bronzed hsematuric disease of the new-born infant. See New-Born Infant ( Winckel's Disease) ; Hemoglobinuria {Infantile Type). Winds. See Climate {Individual Factors, Influence of Winds) ; Meteorology {An^mo- metry). Wine-g^lasS. /kS'ee Prescribing {Weights and Measures).