146 TUBERCULOSIS alone, but usually associated with tubercle ex- tending from the mesenteric glands in the direction already indicated. In all these cases, it would appear that the glands at the root of the lungs become tuberculous and caseous before the pulmonary tissue itself shows any evidence of disease." Of course, in such cases, one must examine the lungs very carefully to exclude the presence of any old dried-up tuberculous focus or scar indicating disease of the lung antecedent to that in the glands. Again, the same author says {loc. cit., p. 960) : " I have seen in case after case in children, and in animals fed on tuberculous material, the lungs markedly affected, but in a large proportion of these cases it has been possible to trace the course of invasion back from a caseous or old calcareous mesenteric gland, through the chain of retro-peritoneal glands up through the diaphragm to the pos- terior mediastinal and bronchial glands, and so on to the lungs." Therefore, as has already been remarked, all cases of respiratory tuberculosis must not neces- sarily be looked upon as primarily so, and are not all due to inhalation. Passing from this criticism of Koch's state- ments, which, when all is said and done, are based on negative experimental evidence only, we may proceed now to examine positive evi- dence in favour of the contention that tuber- culosis may be transmitted to man from cattle. Speaking generally, the great danger to be apprehended is from dairr/ cattle, which are kept to a large extent in ill-ventilated byres and cowsheds, rather than from cattle kept in the open; the former being herded together under conditions favouring the transmission of disease from one to another, and its retention in a fairly constant ratio. "In places where cattle are allowed to graze at liberty in our Alps and in marshes, imcooked milk will often be drunk with impunity, but in the low country, and in towns where the dairy cattle are always crowded together in damp cow-houses and infection spreads from animal to animal, Koch's assertion that there is no cause for uneasiness would be an invitation to carelessness which would undo all that has been accomplished." (F. Hueppe, Lancet, 1901, ii. p. 613.) As great a proportion as 50 to 70 per cent of cattle kept under such conditions has been found affected with tuberculosis by the tuber- culin test, and the udders are found tuberculous in ^ to 2 per cent. As to the general question, whether dairy cattle are responsible to any extent for the prevalence of tuberculosis in the human subject, we may first cite the investigations of E. F. Brush {Archiv. PcBdiatr. Philad., 1890, p. 551), who considered the coincident geographical dis- tribution of tuberculosis and dairy cattle. He shows that in lands like Egypt the in- digenous inhabitants retain immunity while associating for long periods with consumptive immigrants ; while, on the other hand, in regions like Australia and the Sandwich Islands, the inhabitants have become infected after the in- troduction of dairy cattle. Referring to China, he speaks of the poor Chinese as a people who do not use milk, while the Tartars in that country are milk and meat consumers ; and, therefore, the observations of medical men are very confused, and they confess that they cannot understand why the disease prevails among the dominant Tartar class and not among the poor Chinese, who, according to all preconceived notions, ought to be tuberculous. In South America, where cattle are exceed- ingly numerous, but the use of milk almost unknown, or used only after being boiled, the natives enjoy still a large immunity. Contrasting Spain and Morocco, where climate and other conditions must be nearly equal, he finds that Morocco, where there are no European dairy cows, is exempt from tuberculosis; while in Spain and Portugal, where dairying is carried on in the European style, tuberculosis prevails. He expresses a belief that dairy and beef cattle could be bred in such a way as to eliminate tuberculosis. If this be the case, it is difficult to deny the connection between dairy cattle and the pre- valence of tuberculosis. Statistical Evidence.—The evidence of the mortality tables of the Registrar-General might be cited in support of the prevalence of ingestion tuberculosis, though, according to M'Fadyean, we should not lay too much stress upon it. There has been in Great Britain during the last forty-five years a reduction of 27-9 per cent in the deaths from all forms of tuberculosis. The reduction in deaths from phthisis pulmonalis reached 66 per cent, while the corresponding re- duction from tabes mesenterica only reached 3 per|cent. In this connection Sir Richard Thorne- Thorne says : " In considering the latter cause of death, we are dealing with a totally different state of affairs. The matter, too, assumes a still more serious aspect if we limit ourselves to the first year of life, when milk is most largely used as food, for then we find that the reduction in the rate of deaths from the various forms of tuberculosis, which reduction has been going on at all ages for about half a century, not only disappears, but is actually transformed into a large increase, reaching no less than 27*7 per cent. This in itself is grave enough, but its significance is still further increased when we remember what are the circumstances under which this increase in the rate of deaths from tabes mesenterica has gone on synchronously with the decrease in that of other forms of tuberculosis." Adami, criticising these statements and figures,