VACCINATION 396 corded by Dr. Clifford AUbutt, in which a woman under forty years of age had had small- pox in a mild form three times, and had also been three times successfully vaccinated. Vac- cinia hajmorrhagica and vaccinia gangrenosa are two conditions which apparently depend upon constitutional defects in the individual rather than upon the presence of any pathogenic organ- ism in the vaccine lymph. Eczema and other inflammations of the skin are extremely common in early infancy, and the slight irritation re- sulting from even normal vaccination may be sufficient in some children to produce the condi- tion which underlies the skin affection. With regard to congenital syphilis it should be borne in mind that vaccination may be quite normal in a child who will presently show indubitable signs of inherited taint; it is possible, too, that in such a child the temporary disturbance of health due to vaccination may precipitate the manifestations of inherited disease. In such a case careful in- quiry into the history of the symptoms, their order and chronology, will almost always show the real relationship between the two sets of facts. It is obviously of the greatest importance to distinguish between syphilis which has been communicated by vaccination and the results of vaccination in a syphilitic child. It should be remembered that, both in England and Scotland, inherited syphilis kills a large proportion of its victims before the age at which vaccination is en- joined ; also that when vaccination was practically in abeyance in Leicester the number of deaths from infantile syphilis showed an increase of 69 per cent as compared with an increase of 24"7 per cent from the same cause over the whole of England and Wales, where vaccination was much more common. It would, of course, be absurd to suggest that vaccination prevents the development of inherited disease, bvit these figures show that such disease is as common and as fatal in the unA^accinated as in the vac- cinated portions of the community. It is true that a very small number of cases have occurred in which the disease has been conveyed through vaccination. The fact that they were infinitely rare did not carry much weight in the minds of anxious mothers. The other fact, that syphilis thus inoculated into the skin of a previously healthy child would run a coiirse entirely un- like the inherited disease, the lay public were not able to appreciate, and the tendency was to connect every manifestation of inherited syphilis with the vaccination which had perhaps pre- ceded it by a week or two. It is easy to under- stand how ready the father or mother would be to throw the blame of such disease on the vac- cination, and also how willing sympathetic and courteous neighbours would be to accept this explanation. It would be unreasonable to ex- pect in parents or neighbours the knowledge as to the prevalence of inherited specific disease that is learnt in the out-patient department of every hospital where children are received. The truth is that vaccino-syphilis is and has ever been almost infinitely rare; that the in- herited disease is extremely common; and that, as a rule, this form of disease is plainly to be recognised before the child arrives at the vac- cination age. Similarly with regard to deaths from erysipelas, the infant mortality from this cause in Leicester during the years 1883-1887, when there was very little vaccination, showed an increase of 41'5 per cent as contrasted with a diminution of 16"'7 per cent over the whole of England and Wales. Had vaccination really been the cause of many cases of erysipelas, Leicester would surely have been able to show a better result than this. The same considerations apply to lupus and tubercular infection as supposed results of vac- cination. The fact that lupus has in a few cases begun in a vaccination wound or scar does not prove that the virus was introduced at the time of vaccination. Lupus is not very uncommon, and it is often started in a trivial wound of the skin with no possible connection with vaccination. Unvaccinated Leicester was no more free from deaths due to tubercular disease of the brain and abdominal organs than was fairly well-vaccinated England. So also as to the supposed connection between vaccination and leprosy or cancer. In the case of leprosy, where the virus is located mainly in the skin, it may possibly be that it could be communi- cated through vaccination if this was carefully attempted, and if lymph were taken from vesicles raised on a portion of skin already infected with leprosy. Needless to say, this would in practice never be done, nor would lymph be taken from an individual who showed signs of leprosy in even very distant parts of the skin. The really grave complications of vaccination arise in almost every instance from inflammatory or septic affections common to all wounds, un- less most carefully guarded against. Serious injury from vaccination is almost unknown in well-cared-for infants. With cleanliness, suit- able food, and care, any abnormal result from vaccination is exceptionally rare. Taking all classes together, the mortality resulting from vaccination accidents before the Act of 1898 was in England 1 in 14,000, in Scotland 1 in 38,000, and in Germany 1 in 100,000. Every vaccination ought to involve four wounds of the skin. Till within a very short time a large number of vaccinators left these wounds quite unprotected. The wonder is not that some of the wounds were poisoned, but that so few were. The Act of 1898 did good by insisting upon much more care being taken of vaccination wounds, and by enjoining regulations for keep- ing them aseptic. How far these regulations can be observed in the crowded and often dirty homes of the poor may be questioned; but it is