UNCONSCIOUSNESS 227 images which go to make up the ego removes the background of the awareness of self. The con- dition, therefore, is one of "sciousness" (James) pure and simple, inasmuch as it does not include those elements or adjustments which go to make up the complete self and which constitute con-sciousness. Physiologically considered it appears fair to assume that consciousness has a diffuse sub- stratum, and the physical equivalents of the elements of consciousness are everywhere throughout the brain substratum. Each unit of the highest evolved parts of the sensorium has its own physical equivalent to consciousness, which exhibits itself under certain physical conditions occurring within that unit. The succession of physical elements constituting seriality of thought, conception, knowledge, is correlative to continuity of action between the units of the cortical substance, and the de- struction or inertness of any of the physical correlatives of this seriality appears to be the explanation of these freaks of dual and even multiple personalities. It now remains to consider those conditions of unconsciousness in some instances termed "coma," and in which the loss of co7isciousness is complete. The following tabular statement will serve as a guide:— Unconsciousness due to Convulsions occurring in infancy may be caused by fear, anger, improper diet, hyper- pyrexia, dentition, entozoa, rickets, cerebral or bodily irritation. Sometimes the seizures are difficult to distinguish from epilepsy, and not infrequently epilepsy may supervene. The convulsions may pass off without doing injury to the cerebral structures, or cerebral con- gestion or asphyxia may be brought about with serious sequelae. The attack usually begins with tonic contraction and palmar flexion of the thumbs, succeeded by tonic spasms of particular muscles or group of muscles of the face, arms, legs, or of one side of the body, and sometimes leaving motor impairment or even paralysis. Consciousness is usually lost, respiration irregular, and face livid. The tonic spasms may simulate the clonic contractions of epilepsy. Treatment resolves itself into removal of the cause of reflex irritation, suitable diet, and re- moval from unhygienic surroundings. In adults the convulsions may be tonic, affecting any muscles or set of muscles, static or convulsive aurse, rotatory with general action of the extensor muscles, unilateral affecting one side of the body, epileptiform simulating epilepsy, apoplectiform simulating apoplexy, and lastly epileptic or ajjoplectic. Where certain muscles or sets of muscles are alone aff'ected, consciousness may be retained or be slightly affected. In the other types, how- ever, it is usually completely suspended. Epileptic coma usually accompanies sensori- motor discharging lesions of the nervous system {vide epilepsy) and the symptoms will vary according to the site aff'ected—cerebrum, cere- bellum, or spinal cord—and according as the lesion is discharging or destrvictive in nature. There is no sudden line of demarcation between the minor forms of epilepsy, in which the mental or motor functions are but partially affected, and the graver forms attended by total loss of consciousness and general clonic convulsions. Briefly enumerated, the various relations of epilepsy to loss of consciousness are :—Abortive, with loss of consciousness; feigned, in which there is no biting of the tongue, no relaxation of the sphincters, no pupillar anomalies, and none of the post-epileptic phenomena ; gastric, intestinxil, laryngeal, renal, ovarian, and audi- tory, due to reflex irritation; hysterical {vide hystero-epilepsy) ; partial, limited to one muscle or set of muscles ; cerebral, spinal, according to the region mainly affected ; Jacltsonian, in which the spasm is in a definite direction : idiopathic, without observable lesion ; vaso-motor, with loss of consciousness, but without muscular spasm ; thalamic, supposed to be due to a lesion of the optic thalamus with a special sense aurse, and loss of consciousness without muscular spasm ; psychic or masked, with partial or complete loss of consciousness without muscular spasm ; trau- Convulsions. Epilepsy. Traumatism (due to injury, sunstroke, etc.). Meningitis. Organic brain disease Toxins . Artificial Haemorrhage. Embolism. Thrombosis. Tumours, abscesses, etc. General paralysis. Other paralyses. Drugs. Autotoxines. Hypnotism. AntEsthesia (chloroform, etc.).