115 TROPICS, THE UNCLASSED FEVERS OF THE of eleven specimens taken from natives of India resident in London, in good health, and with no history of a recent attack of fever of any kind, a positive result by the microscopic method was obtained in seven instances, in dilutions of 1 in 50. Three of those whose blood failed to give any reaction were over forty years of age, and only one of eight below thirty failed altogether to show the presence of agglutinins. In four of these a well-marked reaction, which would have been sufficient in Europeans to establish the bacteriological diagnosis of enteric fever, occurred within half an hour; in the others it was more belated. It is clear, there- fore, that conclusions based , on the serum test in natives in India must be accepted witli great caution, and though enteric fever may be of more frequent occurrence in some parts of India, as in Bombay and Poona (Lamb, I.e., Ind. Med. Gaz., February 1902), and in Madras (Elliot, hid. Med. Gaz., March 1901, p. 115), especially though not exclusively in native Christians, Goorkhas, Burmans, and other natives who have abandoned a strict non- alcoholic and non-animal dietary, the belief in a comparative immunity from enteric fever enjoyed by natives on the whole, which is founded on the evidence of post-mortem ex- aminations in the jails and large hospitals of India, remains unshaken {vide Ind. Med. Gaz. of May 1893). It argues rather a narrow view of the possibilities of bacteriology—a science still in its infancy—to limit our conceptions to those infections which are already known. It was this limitation which so long led clinicians to confound Malta fever with malarial and enteric fevers in spite of its well-marked and distinctive clinical symptoms. Recurrent Fevers of Long Interval The malarial parasites are organisms which have life-cycles of twenty-four, forty-eight, and seventy-two hours, giving rise to quotidian, tertian, and quartan ague respectively, and their life-history is incompatible with a regular recurrence of fever at longer intervals, and it is in our present state of knowledge impossible to ascribe to these organisms those fevers which are marked by a regular recurrence at intervals of a week, a fortnight, or a month. The regular recurrence of " relapsing fever" after a week of apyrexia has been found to be due to the spirillum Obermeieri ; and " elephantoid fever " (an uncouth name which should now be aban- doned in favour of "filarial fever"), with its regular recurrence, in typical cases, at intervals of a month, with its rigors, high temperature, and lymphangitis in those parts destined to be the seat of elephantiasis, is unquestionably caused by the presence of the filaria Bancrofti; but the cause of a fever, with a fortnight's interval without any specific phenomena except enlargement of the spleen, is as yet unex- plained. These cases are of sufficient frequency to mark a distinct fever of specific causation. In the writer's experience the patients have mostly resided in the valley of the Brahmaputra, and have been the subjects of a fever coming with the greatest punctuality every fourteenth day. If the first attack occurs on a Thursday the subsequent attacks are on every alternate Thursday for two or three months, the febrile paroxysm lasting twenty-four to thirty-six hours. In the interval the patient is free from fever, but after several attacks the spleen will be found to be considerably enlarged, and ulti- mately all the phenomena of the malarial cachexia manifest themselves. We know of no modification of the known malarial parasites capable of causing a fever of this character, and the punctual regularity of the recurrence pre- cludes the idea of accidental infection by them. It suggests infection by some organism with a life-cycle of fourteen days, possibly a lisemamceba of a yet unnoted kind. Quinine in full doses has, in my experience, invariably broken the sequence of events. Fevers of Mixed Origin Typho-Malarial Fever. — In the tropics the combination of malarial infection with that of typhoid serves to obscure the early symptoms of enteric fever, giving rise in many cases to a violent and sudden access, instead of the gradual step-like rise of temperature which is so char- acteristic of it in temperate climates, and in such cases convalescence is often delayed by several days of intermittent fever, when the course of the typhoid symptoms appears to have ended. At these initial and terminal stages the malarial parasite may be detected in the blood. It was in such cases of "congestive" or "adynamic remittent" fever that the older writers remarked the presence of ulceration or congestion of the small intestine in post-mortem examination (Annesley, Diseases of India and Warm Climates, 1828, and Twining, Diseases of Bengal, 1835). Otherwise the ordinary course of typhoid fever is little modified by this com- bination with malaria, and I do not think that it is entitled to a separate place in nomenclature. In many cases diagnosed as typhoid fever in the tropics, the post-mortem appearances are by no means characteristic {vide Aiinual Reports of the Government of India, and my Report on the Fevers of Burma, 1876), but this argues a " mixed infection " with some other bacillus, rather than with a hjemamceba. Kala-Azar. — This is a very fatal malady, which for the past fifteen years has been de- vastating portions of Assam, especially in the district of Goalpara, a low-lying malarious dis- trict between the Brahmaputra and the Garo Hills. It has been investigated by Giles, Rogers, and Ronald Ross. It is characterised in its advanced stages by extreme anpemia, great and