URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 295 the name of neutral sulphur. The forms of combination in which the neutral sulphur exists is not fully known, but, as Lupine has shown, some of it is much more readily oxidisable than the rest. Some is certainly in the form of sulphocyanides and some of cystein, which, as Baumann has shown, is present even in normal urine. Some is almost certainly derived from the taurin of bile, for in cases of obstruction of the bile-ducts the total neutral sulphur is in- creased, whereas in dogs with biliary fistulse it is diminished. In the rare condition known as cystinuria the excretion of neutral sulphur is naturally above the normal. Hydrothionuria.—The occurrence of sulphu- retted hydrogen in the urine is usually due to bacterial decomposition, either within or without the body, and the amount produced by such decomposition will naturally be greater when the neutral sulphur is increased, as in cases of cystinuria. More than one species of bacterion appear to have the power of bringing about such decomposition in urine. Another cause of hydrothionuria is the existence of a fistulous communication between the colon and the urinary apparatus, and according to Betz the gas may find its way by transfusion without the existence of any fistulous opening. For the detection of sulphuretted hydrogen the urine is placed in a flask, and a paper moistened with a solution of lead acetate and a drop of sodium hydrate solution is held in the neck of the flask by means of the cork. If sulphuretted hydrogen is being evolved the paper becomes blackened. Considerable quan- tities of the gas may be recognised by its char- acteristic odour. Cystinuria.—It has already been mentioned that a substance closely allied to cystin, viz. cystein, is present in traces in normal urine ; but in an extremely rare condition, of which, however, more than a hundred cases are on record, considerable quantities of cystin are passed in the urine, in which it may form a sediment of colourless hexagonal crystals, or may constitute calculi of greater or less size. ( CH, Cystin 2 is in all probability an ^ COOH intermediate product of proteid metabolism, which, under normal conditions, undergoes further oxidation, its sulphur appearing in the urine in the form of sulphates. In cystinuria the neutral sulphur is increased both in absolute amount and relatively to the sulphates. Quite recently it has been shown by Morner and Ebden that cystin may be readily obtained by the hydrolysis of proteid substances. Cystinuria, although an anomaly of peculiar pathological interest, acquires its only clinical importance from the tendency of the cystin precipitated from the urine to form calculi; but the urine may deposit crystals of cystin, at least over long periods, without any calculi being formed. On the other hand, small calculi may be passed or may be formed in rapid suc- cession. Of great interest is the occurrence, in associa- tion with cystinuria, of the diamines, putrescine and cadaverine, in the urine and faeces of the patients, a fact which led Baumann and Ud- ranszky to suggest that as these are well-known bacterial products, cystinuria itself might be indirectly of bacterial origin. Against this we have the great tendency for cystinuria to occur in several members of a family, and the fact that it may be inherited from either parent. Moreover, the early age at which cystin calculi have occurred in not a few instances suggests that it is probably a con- genital anomaly. The analogies here presented with alkaptonuria, although the chemical errors in the two conditions are entirely different in character, strongly suggest that the two condi- tions have something in common, and that in cystinuria we have a second example of a chemical malformation. XII. LiPURIA AND ChYLURIA. ChOLESTERIN IN Urine Lipuria.—Fat may present various appear- ances when present in the urine. When abun dant it may form oily drops which float upon the surface of the liquid, and which when sucked up by a piece of filter paper produce greasy marks upon it. In other cases it appears as a cloud consisting of small droplets suspended in the urine, as in some cases of fracture of bones; or again as an evenly diffused emulsion, which gives to the liquid a milky appearance, as in chyluria. Most frequently its presence is only revealed by the microscope in the form of minute highly-refractive globules, which are usually adherent to renal casts or enclosed in degenerated epithelial cells. Lastly, the very rare iirinary calculi known as urostealiths con- tain a large proportion of fat. When fat is present in minute amount in a sediment it may be recognised by staining with osmic acid, but larger quantities may be re- moved by shaking the urine with ether and submitting the residue left after evaporation of the ether to the ordinary tests for fats. Cases of lipuria or apparent lipuria admit of classification into four main groups, viz. :— (1) Those in which the fat has been acci- dentally or intentionally added ; (2) those in which the blood contains an undue amount of fat which is excreted by the kidneys; (3) those in which the fat is derived from degenerative changes in the kidneys themselves, or in some lower portion of the urinary tract; and (4) cases of chyluria, which condition calls for special discussion.