169 TUMOURS OF THE SKIN of the upper part of the face, but, unlike rodent ulcer, it runs a rapid course. It may commence as a bossy rounded lump, which quickly in- creases in size and breaks down at the summit, giving rise to a crateriform appearance. Histo- logically it is an epithelioma. Radcliife-Crocker records a case in which it developed about the inner canthus, and was at first thought to be a rodent. The microscope showed it to be epi- theliomatous. A somewhat similar kind of growth was figured by Rayer among his draw- ings of cancer. In old people the dirty, wart-like growths (senile warts, or senile, flat, seborrhoeic warts, jieurs de cimetiere) which occur about the face and body may in some instances become epi- theliomatous. Epithelioma sometimes develops in hipus vulgaris. This complication is infinitely more rare in lupus erythematosus. Chronic infiltrated patches of dermatitis are in very rare instances liable to become cancerous, especially if scratched and worried, and may lead to death, by involving the corresponding lymphatic glands, and becoming generalised in the viscera secondarily. The same malignant development may take place in old scars and ulcers. Other instances of epithelioma arising as a result of precedent skin affection are cancer following eczema ani, and in another case de- veloping from a cornu cutaneum. Paget's disease has been described elsewhere (vol. vi. p. 173), but it may be incidentally mentioned here that the condition has been observed on the penis, the scrotum, and vulva. Chimney-sweep^ cancer need merely be alluded to in passing. Workers in tar and paraffin may be similarly affected. Cancer en cuirasse must also be referred to. Seaman's skin cancer is the name given by Unna to cancerous complications occurring after erythemata and hyperkeratosis of long standing, and as a result of exposure to weather. Cancer has also been described as developing in old syphilitic ulcers and scars, on psoriasis patches, in the sca7's of old burns, and so forth. Melanotic cancer has of late years been shown to be the true state of affairs in cases formerly included under the melanotic sarcomata. Cru- veilhier, however, many years ago clinically designated melanotic growths under the former heading. These cancel's arise in pigmented moles. Cancer about the n^ils is of very rare oc- currence. I have referred to a case of this kind, recorded by J. Hutchinson, jr., in my article on "Affections of the Nails" (vol. vi. p. 522). The prolonged use of arsenic, by leading to epithelial changes, may give rise to cancer of the skin. An unusual case of arsenical keratosis becoming cancerous after arsenic had long ceased to be taken has been noted by Radcliffe-Crocker and Fernet. Korowin had a case of primary cancer of the hairy scalp, which generalised, leading to more than 200 metastatic embolic nodules in the skin of the face, trunk, and limbs. The lungs were also involved. An anomalous case of multiple carcinomata has been recorded by AUworthy and Fernet, in which growths de- veloped about the right buttock and ad- jacent parts. The patient died three and a half years from the onset, but no necropsy was allowed. The large growths which sometimes develop in Xeroderma pigmentosum may also be epithelio- matous. A recent instance of this has been described by Fernet. Secondarily, subcutaneous multiple carcino- mata occur in the last stages of cancer of the stomach, liver, and so forth. Their surface generalisation is a sign that the end is not far off. The treatment for cancer of the skin is re- moval, widely and deeply, whenever excision is possible. This is specially important in the case of the melanotic growths. The sooner a growing pigmented mole is removed the better, for generalisation and a fatal issue are rapid in neglected cases. When there are numerous subcutaneous growths, secondary to internal cancer, removal is, of course, out of the question. Where excision cannot be carried out for various reasons, the X-rays might be tried, but not much is to be expected from their applica- tion. When caustics, such as Vienna and other pastes, are used they should be applied very thoroughly. The growth sloughs away, and it has been recommended to graft when the wound is granulating healthily. Arsenic internally is no use. Morphia and opium should not be withheld where there is pain. In hopeless cases, euthanasia must be aimed at. Endothelioma cutis may be mentioned in this place. Under this name a rare condition has been described, in which the scalp becomes aff'ected with multiple growths, giving rise to a characteristic appearance. They grow very slowly, and do not lead to metastases, the general health remaining good. These scalp tumours have been found in two and more generations. Histologically they have been described as developing from the endothelia of capillaries. The face and upper part of chest may be affected, as in Ancell's case, which apparently was an example of the disease. Sarcoma.—^Under this heading German writers have formed a complex group. Space will not allow in this place of much refinement in the direction of division of the subject. Here the following will be dealt with:—