346 UTERUS, INFLAMMATIONS OF THE mucus and allow the astringent fluid to reach the inflamed surface of the cervical canal. Re- tention cysts in the cervix should be punctured and their contents evacuated. The glycerine plug is useful here also. In many cases of cervical catarrh no further treatment than this is necessary. If, however, in spite of the astringent douches the leucorrhoea continues, direct application of pure carbolic or iodine may be made to the cervix. This should be done thoroughly once, and not repeated at intervals as was formerly done. Failing improvement after a single cauterisation, it is better to have recourse to operation. This may consist of a thorough scraping of the diseased surface, its removal by Schroeder's method, repair of the laceration by Emmet's operation, or, if there is great hypertrophy and induration, amputation of the vaginal portion of the cervix. Subinvolution of the Uterus.—The weight of the uterus after delivery is from one and a half to two pounds, and its length is about six inches, the fundus reaching as high as the umbilicus. In from four to six weeks, as a result of certain processes of absorption and transformation of tissue, the exact nature of which is still very imperfectly understood, it is returned to its normal size and weight and position in the pelvis which it occupied before pregnancy. The retardation or arrest of this process of involution after premature termina- tion of pregnancy or delivery at term is known as subinvolution, a term first employed by Sir J. Y. Simpson. Etiology.—physiological process of involu- tion is brought about by the diminished blood- supply to the litems resulting from the inter- mittent contractions and permanent retraction of its muscle fibres after delivery. The causes of subinvolution are to be found, therefore, in conditions which tend to produce vascular en- gorgement, or which will interfere with the normal contraction of the uterus. First in importance, therefore, is the occun-ence of pelvic inflammation. In all such cases, involution is delayed and always arrested before the process is complete. The presence of pelvic tumours, backward displacements of the uterus, chronic constipation, hepatic and cardiac disease, and resuming the erect posture and active work too soon after delivery, all operate in the same way in retarding or arresting complete involution by causing congestion of the uterine vessels. Im- perfect uterine contraction after labour is met with in cases where there has been undue haemorrhage during delivery, where the labour has been unduly prolonged, in cases also where portions of the memVjranes or placenta have been left behind, and where there is retained blood-clot. An over-distended bladder may interfere with normal involution. Finally, im- perfect contraction of the puerperal uterus is frequently met with in those cases where the normal stimulant to such contraction is not forthcoming owing to the patient not suckling the child. Premature labour, plural births, parturition late in life, chronic debilitative dis- ease, such as phthisis, are often alleged but much less certain causes of subinvolution. Diagnosis and Symptoms.—During the lying- in period, observations should be systematically made as to the position of the fundus and size of the uterus. An early recognition of any arrest or cessation of the normal diminution is of the utmost importance, as appropriate treat- ment at this time may avert much subsequent suifering and discomfort. Considerable varia- tions occur, but for practical purposes it may be stated that the fundus uteri on the day after delivery will be found at or slightly above the level of the umbilicus ; on the third and fourth days, just below the umbilicus; on the fifth and sixth days, from two to three fingers' breadth below the umbilicus; on the seventh and eighth days, midway between umbilicus and symphysis ; and on the tenth and eleventh days, at the level of the symphysis. By the end of the sixth or eighth week the process of involu- tion is complete. The parous uterus is always slightly larger than that of a nullipara. De- layed or arrested involution is associated with an increase and prolongation of the bloody lochia, and in those cases where the cause is a piece of retained placenta or membrane the dis- charge may remain coloured for weeks. The diagnosis of subinvolution is, however, generally not made until long after the patient has passed out of the puerperal state. The symptom which, in the majority of cases, causes the patient to seek advice is an undue loss of blood at the menstrual periods. This, in fact, is frequently the only symptom. In others there is also a feeling of weight and discomfort in the pelvis, or actual bearing-down pains. Leucorrhoea is present when there is endometritis. Rectal and bladder troubles may be complained of, especi- ally when the uterus is displaced backwards. Dysmenorrhoea exists only when there is metritis or congestion of the ovaries. As i-egards the reproductive system, it has to be noted that subinvolution tends to cause sterility, probably on account of the diseased state of endometrium, which is so frequently also present. In the event of a fertilised ovum finding a lodgment in such a uterus, there is a great tendency to abortion. The cause of the so-called "abortion habit "is very often to be found in subinvolution. Physical Signs.—On vaginal examination the cervix will be found enlarged and thickened often at a lower level than normal, the heavy uterus tending to prolapse. Bimanually the uterus is found enlarged and often retroflexed. The sound passes into the uterine cavity more than 2^ inches, and its introduction generally causes pain.