440 VENTILATION AND WARMING and horizontal. The back and sides should be of fire-clay. The sides should make an angle of about 120 degrees with the back; a line at right angles to the posterior edge of one side should just clear the anterior edge of the other; the heat from each side will thus be radiated into the room. The back should overhang, so that upper margin at chimney throat should be nearly as far forward as margin of grate bottom. If practicable, the grate should stand forward into the room. The air should circulate round it. A movable damper or regulator should control the chimney throat. The slits between the bars of the bottom grid should be narrow. The passage of air through them should be con- trolled by a tight-closing ash-pan or a " Teale's economiser." A still simpler method of control is a piece of sheet-iron slid in to cover the bars. This makes the fire burn more slowly, and can be used as a regulator for almost any grate. The following patterns realise these conditions in various degrees :—The Nautilus grate, which stands out in the room, slow or quick combus- tion, chimney-throat regulator. The Galton grate, or stove, already described. The Grundy grate, fire-clay back, same principle as Galton's. The Teale grate, air-chamber below grate, no air admitted through bottom grid, very thin vertical bars in front, other conditions as above enumerated, two patterns, ordinary and front- hob, air in latter admitted at fire level; these patterns common in Yorkshire. The Rational grate, sunk ash-pit. Boyd's grate, same as Teale's with adjustable canopy at chimney- throat, regulating ash-pit, no iron parts; air circulates round whole grate. Heim's "Helios" smoke-consuming grates, fire enclosed, shines through mica, very economical, less cheerful than open fire, but convertible into open fire at will. Heim's " Hestia" stove, smokeless, economical, suitable for halls, etc. Neil Ar- nott's grate, practically smokeless, fuel burns from above downwards, coals put in first, lit from top, bottom movable upwards by capstan mechanism, chimney-throat valve, very economi- cal, needs almost no attention for six to twelve hours continuously. Arnott's stove, double- cased, fed from top, anthracite coke, automatic air-valve, burns from twelve to twenty-four hours without attention, very economical, suit- able for entrance halls, may be used as venti- lator also. Arnott suggested opening into chimney at ceiling level for hot foul air removal. Falkirk Iron Company's "controlled combustion air-chamber heating apparatus," claims to heat room of 40,000 cubic feet sufficiently (with gas- coke, 2 lbs. per hour), at less than twopence per hour. Shorland's grate, ventilating, same principle as Galton's, common in hospitals. Shorland's calorigen, for heating rooms from under floor level. (2) Stoves.— Advantage: greater economy; defect: less cheerfulness, danger of carbon monoxide formation from coke and coal stoves. For good patterns of coal or coke stove, see under (1). Oil (paraffin or petroleum) stoves are convenient for small rooms. A flue is always advisable. Gas-stoves should always have a flue. Many varieties. Best are radiant heat and ventilating forms. The " ball-fire" fitted with gas-burner, in ordinary grate, very wasteful. When stove is fitted, chimney access should be perfectly closed with sheet - iron, containing opening only for flue. All ball-fires waste heat by inter-radiation among the ir- regular balls {see Thos. Fletcher, Coal-gas as Fuel). Many patterns provided by gas com- panies ; advisable to test by experiment before selection. (3) Heating by Steam, by Hot Water, and by Combination. — Hot-water systems may work with high pressure {e.g. Perkin's patent) or with low pressure. In the former, the pipes are of wrought iron and small, about 1 \ inch diameter; in the latter, about 3 or 4 inches diameter. Length of pipe necessary for given size of room, calculated by experiment. Thus Hood found that, with temperature of pipe at 200° Fahr., and temperature of external air at 40° Fahr., it is necessary, in order to heat 1000 cubic feet per minute up to 60° Fahr., to have at least 80 feet of 4-inch piping. Hood's tables give too low estimates. Radiatoi's are an important factor. They vary in efficiency {see Carpenter, Heating and Ventilating Buildings). When steam is available, it may be used to heat a "calorifier" (spiral condensing tube passing through water). This in turn may be used to form low-pressure circulation. Waste steam frequently available. Heat liberated on con- densation proportionally very great. All these systems may be applied to warm the admitted air. Important to warm the walls {see Galton's Healthy Divellings, p. 184 et seq.) Vent nor. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {English). VentOSe.—A cupping-glass; also, as an adjective, flatulent. Ventra.Cl.—Directed towards the ventral or abdominal surface of the body. Ventra.1.—Related to the abdomen, belly, or venter, or, in its widest sense, to the parts farthest away from the vertebral column; e.g. a ventral hernia {see Hernia, Ventral), ventral fixation of the uterus {see Uterus, Displace- ments OF, Prolapse, Operative Treatment). Ventricle.—The hollow part of an organ such as the brain, the heart, or the larynx; formerly it had the meaning of stomach or uterus (Lat. ventrimlus, diminutive of venter, the stomach). See Brain, Physiology of {Lym- phatic Circulation); Hydrocephalus ; Menin-