VAGINA, DISORDERS OF THE 404 Gonorrhoeal Vaginitis.—Among the causes of vaginitis the goiiococcus is the most frequent and the most important. This germ sets up an acute purulent vaginitis, which shows the usual naked-eye and microscopic characters of a severe catarrh, with the addition that gonococci m smaller and larger heaps and chains are found scattered through all the layers of the epi- thelium, either between the cells or typically inside the epithelium cells or pus corpuscles. Sometimes the germs are found to have pene- trated deep into the sub-epithelial connective tissue. The course of gonorrhoeal vaginitis is usually towards rapid recovery, the disease fre- quently, however, persisting in the cervix and urethra. In some cases the acute vaginitis gradually subsides into a chronic catarrhal inflammation, often with acute exacerbations, which are due to repeated infections, either from without or from the cavity of the cervix or body of the uterus. The diagnosis of the gonorrhoeal nature of a vaginitis depends on the recognition of the gonococcus; the vaginal secretion of adults is not suitable for this observation, and therefore the search has to be made in secretions taken from the urethra or cervix. The absence of gonococci does not prove that the inflammation is not gonorrhoeal, but the examination should be repeated after a menstrual period, or during an exacerbation of the catarrh. In chronic cases, clinical signs are of great importance. Thus an acute, purulent urethritis is only rarely due to any other cause than gonorrhoea; chronic urethritis with milky secretion is most fre- quently the remains of an old acute gonorrhoeal affection, though it is certainly sometimes ob- served wdthout gonorrhoea. Infection of Skene's ducts, and red spots round the urethra, have a similar import. Purulent infection of Bartholin's glands, pus escaping from their ducts, tumours, abscesses, or cysts in the characteristic position of the glands, are all very suggestive, but not diagnostic of gonorrhoea. Red spots like flea- bites about the orifices of Bartholin's ducts—the macula gonorrhoica of Sanger—are also sugges- tive ; and vulvar warts are usually but not always due to gonorrhoea. The probability of a gonor- rhoeal origin is greater when there is disease of the appendages, especially purulent salpingitis and pyosalpinx, with recurrent acute attacks of pelvic peritonitis. The history of the onset has only a limited value ; the immediate commence- ment of a purulent inflammation after sexual con- nection or after marriage, and the occurrence of pain and frequency in micturition at the onset, have some value; the recognition of gonorrhoea in the male is important, but not often available. Mycotic vaginitis is found most frequently in pregnant women with gaping vulva, and is characterised by bright redness and swelling of the mucous membrane, which is covered with small white patches rarely exceeding a pin-head in size. Discharge is absent in most cases, but where present it is of an irritating, excoriating character. The patients complain of intense burning, smarting, and itching, and the mucous membrane is excessively tender to the touch. The affection is caused by the growth of the oidium albicans or some allied organism, which is derived in many cases from an infant suffering from thrush. The disease is more frequent in summer, and damp dwellings appear to favour its occurrence. Emphysematous Vaginitis.—This occurs most frequently during pregnancy, and then tends to disappear within a week or two after delivery; less frequently it is found arising in the puer- perium. Small soft elevations, rarely larger than a pea, are found scattered singly or in groups over the surface of the vaginal mucous membrane ; on the summit of the elevations the epithelium is often so thin that the projection is seen to be hollow, with the contents shining through; on pricking such an elevation it col- lapses, but no fluid, or only a very minute quantity, exudes; a little gas can sometimes be heard to escape with a hissing sound, or if the puncture is made under water a gas bubble is seen. The rest of the mucous membrane, as a rule, shows nothing peculiar; the vaginal secre- tion is visually somewhat increased, and is not seldom frothy. Zweifel found trimethylamine in the gas. Under the microscope the changes are very characteristic ; the connective tissue close under the epithelium is pervaded by round, elongated, or irregular cavities lying more or less close together. These cavities are not lined by epi- thelium or endothelium, but represent simple clefts in the connective tissue. In the immediate neighbourhood of nearly all the cysts there is a fairly considerable number of large giant-cells with many nuclei, exactly like the giant-cells found in the tuberculous collections. In addi- tion, the connective tissue in the neighbourhood of the cavities shows dilated capillaries and profuse infiltration with small round cells. The cause of the condition is a micro-organism, but observers are not yet agreed as to its char- acters ; it appears to be a bacillus. The affec- tion tends to spontaneous disappearance after delivery, and calls for no special treatment. Exfoliative Vaginitis.—Exfoliative vaginitis is a rare aff'ection which is characterised by the discharge of membranous casts of the vagina, frequently accompanied by dysmenorrhoeal symptoms. The vaginal membranes are com- posed of masses of squamous epithelium cells, and are readily distinguished from the uterine by the absence of the openings of the glands. The use of strong astringent injections is some- times followed by the discharge of larger or smaller shreds of membranes, which may even form casts of the whole length of the vagina. Vulvo-vaginitis of Children.—Vaginitis is a