TYPHOID FEVER 200 hyperpyrexia, or by typhoid or other septic poisoning. It is agreed to by all that the patient with typhoid should keep to bed from the earliest possible moment, and that there shall be no necessity to move from it, the use of the bed-pan is necessary. All excreta should be passed into vessels containing disinfectants. The Diet must be such as will nourish the patient until the disease has run its course, must be easily digestible and assimilable, and such as that little residue shall pass from the stomach. Milk should be the staple article of food, diluted, so as the more to relieve thirst and the less to form solid clot; the diluent may be lime or barley or an aerated water. The quantity of milk should be not less for an adult than two pints in each twenty-four hours ; three pints are often well taken. Typhoid patients' appetites and requirements for food vary, and as much milk may be given as the patient can take without producing curds in the stools, or diarrhosa, or distension of stomach or intestines. The milk may be given warm or cold as the patient prefers. If diluted milk is ill borne it may be pepton- ised, or tried with the addition of a little tea or coffee. A few patients cannot take milk in any form, and whey, butter-milk, koumiss, or albumen of egg in water may be substituted. Beef tea and soup, strained clear and free from fat, may be given ; ten ounces in twenty- four hours is usually sufficient to supplement the milk, except in cases where the latter is not well taken. There is no evidence that any of the innumer- able artificial foods recommended as superior to milk are preferable to it, and they may be reserved for cases where milk cannot be taken, and for additions to the dietary in early con- valescence. No general rule can be laid down for the dieting of those rare cases where cow's milk cannot be taken in any form ; they must be treated on the principles adopted in the hand feeding of infants, sometimes substituting for a time veal-tea or beef-tea or white wine whey. Additions to the diet should not be delayed longer than is necessary, many complications being favoured by debility and feebleness of circulation. On the other hand there is good evidence that too early giving of solid food may set up relapses, or melsena, or perforation. It is possible that solid food may act injuriously by exciting increase of peristalsis, or by fermen- tation in the intestine lead to fresh absorption of toxins. It is inadvisable to give solids while the tongue is coated ; the converse cannot be said, for the tongue may entirely clean up early in the course of an attack, subsequently proving severe. Nor should solid food be given until the bowels, if constipated, have been well relieved by enemata or otherwise. The appetite of the patient has been suggested as a guide for his diet, but patients often crave after, and sometimes surreptitiously eat, food which produces very evil results. The temperature chart is generally taken as a guide to the commencement of solid food; some withhold it until seven or even ten days of com- plete apyrexia have expired ; others give solid food without reference to a persistence of pyrexia, often with complete impunity. No doubt in those cases of typhoid in which intestinal ulcer- ation never occurs or is at a minimum, solid food may be given without danger, and even with advantage at a very much earlier period than in other cases in which there has been severe intestinal ulceration. It is not, however, always possible to determine with certainty if ulceration has been slight in an individual case, but where there has been no great tremor, nor melsena, nor much tympanites, nor diarrhoea, and where the motions become " formed " early, ulceration of intestines has probably been slight, and solid food may be tried early. In cases where there is reason to believe that there has been deep ulceration there is a danger, quite out of proportion to any advantage obtainable, in giving solid food before pyrexia has subsided for at least three complete successive days. Bread and milk, fish, minced chicken, vege- tables, may be gradually added to the diet, and persisted in even if a slight rise of tempera- ture occurs, so long as there is no diarrhoea or tympanites set up, or accelei-ation of pulse. Great Thirst may be appeased by drinking cold water or toast water in moderate quantities ; large hot-water enemata are also very useful. Saline enemata increase the thirst. Alcohol is not required in cases of typhoid which progress well, but patients exhausted by combating the disease without taking to bed often require it as soon as they come under treatm ent. During convalescence a little alcohol is often useful. The general rules which are guides to administration of alcohol in other diseases are applicable in typhoid fever, a dry brown tongue, muttering delirium, failing pulse, and weak heart sounds indicating its adminis- tration, but it should not be given more freely than is absolutely required. Diffusible Stimulants.—Ether, ammonia, sum- bul, and black coffee are often useful, and strychnine hypodermically administered is of great use when the heart is acting feebly or the nervous system much depressed. Caffein is also useful, especially combined with strychnine. The Antiseptic Treatment is based on the en- deavour to lessen the virulence of the toxins in the intestine before absorption, and to limit the action of the micro-organisms in the alimentary canal. It has been claimed also that antiseptics may abort the disease, but this is not substanti- ated. The antiseptics which have been advo- cated are innumerable. Charcoal was used by