UTERUS, INFLAMMATIONS OF THE 344 found both in parovis and nuUiparous women, though much more frequently in the former than in the latter; and, as above stated, it occurs in one form in old women subsequent to the climacteric. Scrofula, tuberculosis, syphilis, ansemia, rheumatism, and gout are said to be predisposing causes. This is somewhat difficult of exact proof, but it is equally certain that those cases associated with a tubercular or rheumatic diathesis are the most intractable. Gonorrhoea accounts for a small proportion of cases. Symptoms.—The symptoms which characterise it are : (1) Menorrhagia. In but few cases is this symptom absent. It may manifest itself by an increase and prolongation, or too frequent recurrence of the menstrual flow. In very rare cases the menstrual flow may be lessened. In these the diminished discharge is of a dirty brown colour, and is much more ofl'ensive than normal. (2) Inter-menstrual discharge. This may be leucorrhoeal, sanguinolent, or muco- purulent, and is often so acrid as to cause excoriation externally, or be the cause of in- tolerable pruritus vulvae. (3) Dysmenorrhoea. This is not a constant symptom by any means, and is probably only present in those cases where there is also some degree of metritis. (4) Pain in the back is commonly present, and is often the most distressing symptom. (5) Endometritis is also a common cause of sterility, and perhaps the most frequent cause of abortion. Physical Signs.—On bimanual examination the uterus is felt to be enlarged and tender on pressure. The sound passes into the uterine cavity for a greater distance than the normal 2^ inches; its introduction causes pain and frequently a small amount of haemorrhage. In rare cases the irregularities of the mucous membrane, as in endometritis fungosa, may be detected by the sound. The speculum shows a watery discharge, which has an alkaline re- action, coming from the cervix. Endometritis of the body is, however, generally accompanied by cervical endometritis, and the watery dis- charge is not often seen alone. More commonly there is a thick, tenacious mucus which results from the cervical affection. Endometritis is very common in a uterus which is retroflexed. Differential Diagnosis.—Small polypi — mucous and fibroid—early malignant disease— carcinoma, sarcoma, and deciduoma malignum —and the retained products of conception— may all simulate chronic endometritis in their symptomatology and physical signs, and have to be differentiated from it. This can only be done in many cases by dilatation of the cervix and exploration of the uterine cavity by the finger, or the examination under the microscope of scrapings taken by the curette. In connection with the latter the large amount of embryonic connective tissue which is present in the normal mucous mem- brane must be kept in mind, or many cases of simple interstitial endometritis will be mistaken for diffuse sarcoma. Treatment.—Constitutional treatment, if in- dicated, will be along the same lines as the constitutional treatment of chronic metritis, and need not be repeated here. Local treat- ment by douching and vaginal tampons of glycerine may, in mild cases, be all that is necessary to effect a complete cure. In others we may apply iodine or some stronger caustic to the endometrium by means of a dressed sound. In the majority a thorough curettage and removal by this means of the diseased endometrium is the best and at the same time the speediest treatment. To be successful, this must be done thoroughly after the cervix has been well dilated. The curetting is generally followed by the application of pure carbolic acid or a mixture of carbolic and iodine to the interior of the uterus. If done thoroughly and in suitable cases, curettage of the uterus is one of the most satisfactory of gynecological operations. The simplicity of the procedure has, however, led to the great abuse of this operation. (For further details of this operation, see under " Curettage," vol. ii.). Chronic Cervical Catarrh; Cervical Endo- metritis ; Endocervicitis.—This is a chronic inflammatory process affecting the mucous membrane lining the cervical canal, and by many is said to be the most frequent disease of the female pelvic organs. It is frequently associated with corporeal endometritis, but occurs as a separate affection. It is also much more frequently met with in parous women than in nuUiparse.. The disease begins in the glands of the cervix, which in the early stages are found swollen, hypertrophied, and secreting very freely. Later, the mucous membrane itself becomes greatly thickened by proliferation of the areolar tissue and congestion of its blood- vessels. Exfoliation of the columnar super- ficial epithelium of the cervical mucous mem- brane also takes place, and a single layer of delicate embryonic epithelium takes the place of that shed. As a result of the great hyper- trophy and congestion of the mucous membrane it is thrown into numerous folds, and may extend outwards from the external os over a considerable extent of the vaginal surface of the cervix, the superficial squamous epithelium of which gives place to this new formation. The minute folds into which this hypertrophied membrane is thrown gives it to the naked eye a granular appearance ; and, as the thin epithe- lial covering allows the subjacent vascular tissue to shine through, the appearances presented on examination by means of the speculum are very similar to those of an ulcer, for which condition they were long mistaken. The red,