285 URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN looked which are readily detected by the guaia- cum test. This latter test is of great delicacy, but may mislead, owing to the fact that other substances met with in urine yield a similar bine colour, but a negative result is of much value in ex- cluding the presence of hemoglobin, always providing that the reagents are freshly prepared and active. A few drops of tincture of guaiacum are added to some ozonic ether (an ethereal solution of hydrogen peroxide), and the mixture is allowed to run upon the surface of the urine. If blood be present a blue ring appears in the ether near the jiinction of the liquids, and on gently shaking the whole layer of ether becomes blue. The urine of patients who are taking iodide of potassium yields the blue colour with great intensity, but the reaction is more slowly de- veloped. Heller's test is performed as follows :—To some urine in a test-tube an equal volume of liquor potassje is added, and the mixture is boiled. The flocculent phosphatic precipitate which forms is coloured brown, and on further boiling usvially assumes a pink tint. At this stage, as Arnold has pointed out, the spectrum of hsemochromogen, which is easy of recognition, is clearly seen when the phosphatic precipitate is examined with the spectroscope. When this is the case the presence of blood-pigment may be confidently affirmed. Chrysophanic acid, which occurs in the urine of patients taking rhubarb or senna, imparts a pink tint to the phosphate precipitate, which however, shows no definite absorption bands ; hsematoporphyrin is also carried down, but is seldom present in such quantities as are likely to lead one into error. The microscopic detection of red blood cor- puscles is the only certain test of hsematuria, as distinguished from hsemoglobinuria. Pyuria.—The presence of pus in the urine forms the subject of a special article, q.v., vol. viii. VI. The Chief Nitrogenous Constituents OF Urine The Total Nitrogen.—A healthy adult ex- cretes some 10-16 grammes of nitrogen in his urine in the course of twenty-four hours. Of this the great bulk (84-90 per cent) is contained in urea, and the remainder is distributed amongst a number of other constituents, such as uric acid, kreatinine, the xanthin bases, ammonia, indoxyl compounds, and the pigments, and, under morbid conditions, leucin, tyrosin, the diamines, cystin, and albumin. The nitro- genous constituents are for the most part pro- ducts of proteid metabolism, and their amount is largely determined by the quantity of nitro- genous materials contained in the food, provided that fats and carbohydrates are at the same time given in sufficient amounts. However, the output of urea which follows a meal is not directly derived from that meal, but chiefly from the metabolism of the tissue proteids. Under ordinary conditions, when a fixed diet is given a condition of nitrogenous equilibrium is established, the output of nitrogen in the urine being equal in amount to the intake after sub- traction of the quantity contained in the fseces; or, in other words, the nitrogen in the urine and faeces equals that taken in the food. If, within certain fairly wide limits, a person in whom such nitrogenous equilibrium has been estab- lished is placed upon a diet richer or poorer in proteids than that which he was previously taking, the organism will adapt itself to the altered conditions within a few days, and nitro- genous equilibrium will be re-established upon a higher or lower plane. The administration of excess of carbohydrates and, in a less degree, of fats to a person in nitrogenous equilibrium tends to spare the tissue proteids, and reduces the nitrogenous output, and a diminution of these constituents of the diet has a contrary effect. In fevers, as was first shown by Huppert, the output of nitrogen is greatly increased beyond that of healthy persons on a similar diet, and an increase is observed in other conditions which lead to in- creased proteid metabolism, such as diabetes mellitus and malignant disease. Although urea contributes so large a proportion of the total nitrogen, the results of estimations of these two factors do not altogether agree, seeing that under a variety of conditions the relative pro- portions of the several nitrogenous constituents of the urine undergo conspicuous variations. This is specially marked in certain grave hepatic diseases, in which the output of urea may undergo a remarkable relative diminution, whereas there is usually a compensatory in- crease of the ammonium salts. In renal disease a diminution of the total nitrogen below the quantity corresponding to the amount ingested results from a diminished eliminative power of the kidneys. Von Noorden and Ritter found that this retention of nitro- genous products was not continuous in chronic renal diseases, but that a period of low excretion is followed by one of normal or increased output. This may account for the conflicting results which have been obtained in observations which have usually extended over short periods only. Von Noorden points out that in cases of chronic parenchymatous nephritis the retained nitrogen may amount to several grammes per diem, and that if such retention were continuous enormous accumulation would result, seeing that the ex- cretion by other channels, such as the skin, is very limited. Vogel and Schmoll found that a similar diminished excretion of total nitrogen occurs in gouty persons apart from any clinical evidence of renal disease. Magnus Levy con-