WATER 523 Hence the amounts of " free " and " albuminoid " ammonia and of " oxygen absorbed" are con- sidered together in forming an opinion as to the purity of a water. Vegetable matter usually yields very little free ammonia, but may yield as much "organic" ammonia as animal matter; it, however, absorbs oxygen less freely. Nearly all waters contain a trace of free ammonia, especially rain water, and occasionally a water which has stood for some time in contact with a metal will yield ammonia due to the reduction of nitrates by the metal—zinc, iron, or lead. In such cases traces of the metal can be detected in the water. In waters other than rain waters, or waters containing traces of the above-mentioned metals, the presence of more than '05 parts of ammonia in one million parts of water should give rise to suspicion. If the "organic" ammonia exceeds "05 parts per million, and yet is less than the free ammonia, pollution with sewage or manurial matter is indicated. If the "organic" ammonia is under •10 per million, and the " free " ammonia under •05, the organic matter is probably of vegetable origin. The following table by Messrs. Tidy and Frankland was devised for interpreting the results obtained in the estimation of the oxygen absorbed :— Water of great organic purity . ,, medium purity . ,, doubtful purity. Impure water .... In interpreting chemical results it must be remembered that the most delicate analysis will not reveal the presence of minute quantities of sewage, hence even waters of great organic purity may actually be contaminated, and a careful bacteriological examination may reveal the presence of organisms derived from sewage or manure. In taking samples of water for examination great care should be exercised, as tlie intro- duction of a very little organic matter from the vegetation around, from dirty vessels, or from a cork, may mislead the analyst. A white glass-stoppered bottle holding about four pints is best. It should be thoroughly cleaned with oil of vitriol, and rinsed out repeatedly with good water. The bottle should then be com- pletely filled with the water to be examined, a little poured away, and the stopper inserted. If the water is collected from a tap, the tap should be turned full on and the water allowed to run to waste for a few minutes before filling. If the sample has to be taken from a cistern, pond, or stream, then, if possible, the stopper should be inserted and the bottle placed well under the surface of the water, and in a few seconds the stopper removed and the bottle allowed to fill. The stopper is best secured by a covering of clean linen, or by an india-rubber cap. Whoever interprets the results of the analysis should be fully acquainted with the source of the water, as the interpretation is not a mere chemical problem. Under the Public Health Acts it is the duty of all sanitary authorities to see that every house in their districts has an available supply of wholesome water, within a reasonable dis- tance, suflScient for all domestic requirements. But this supply can only be enforced where it can be obtained at a reasonable cost, and this cost is defined as £8:13:4 per house (or by special permission of the Local Government Board, £13). Unfortunately in the great majority of cases a proper well cannot be con- structed for this sum, hence many localities continue to be badly supplied with water. The terms "reasonable distance" and "available supply" are variously interpreted in different districts, hence there is great lack of uniformity in the administration of the Acts so far as they apply to water supplies. There are even differences of opinion as to what constitutes a " wholesome water." Where there are consider- able congregations of houses it becomes the dvity of the sanitary authority to provide a public supply. Unfortunately, again, this duty is too frequently shirked on account of the expense. Where any source of water-supply is so contaminated as to be injurious to health the sanitary authority may cause the source to be closed. This section of the Public Health Act is, however, of little use, since it is difficult to prove that a water is actually injurious bo health. If the word "dangerous" were sub- stituted for "injurious" the section would be of much greater value. The law generally re- lating to water supplies requires amending. Wa.ter-g'a.S. See Toxicology {Gaseous Poisons, Carbon Monoxide, Water-gas). Water-hammer Pulse.—A pulse in which the stroke is exaggerated, but it lasts a very short time and collapses very quickly and very completely; it is characteristic of aortic incompetence; Corrigan's pulse. See Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium (Physical Signs of Different Forms of Heart Disease, Aortic Incompetence). Waterhouse-Forbes Steriliser. —A method of sterilising water by means of boiling; it has the advantage of using little Amount of oxygen absorbed by one million parts of water. Upland surface water. Water from other sources. Not more than 1"0 Not more than 0'5 „ 3-0 „ „ 1-5 „ 4^0 „ „ 2^0 More than 4^0 „ „ 2 0