TUMOURS 157 These tumours often attack both retinje, and though they rarely disseminate they are ex- tremely prone to recur after removal of the eyeball. The adult is liable to sarcomata which arise in the uveal tract, and is almost invariably of the pigmented (melanotic) species. It is always unilateral, and though it is not so liable to recur locally as retina sarcoma, it is dread- fully liable to disseminate and infect almost every organ in the body, and occasionally to dye the whole skin black. The proneness with which sarcoma attacks bilateral organs during infancy and childhood is somewhat remarkable, and is especially manifest in the retinje, kidneys, ovaries, and adrenals. In quite a large number of instances sarcoma attacking these organs during infancy may be limited to one gland, but in a fair proportion of cases both are affected. This bilateral disposition is not seen when sarcoma arises in these parts in adults; not only is the disease unilateral, but it exhibits, as has already been stated in regard to the eye- ball, diversity in its minute structure. The variations in the liability of different organs to sarcomata is not greater than the variations observed among organs of similar structure and functions. Take for instance the salivary glands. Sarcoma of the parotid gland is quite common : it is rarely seen in the sub- maxillary and lachrymal glands, and is equally rare in the pancreas. Sarcomata occur far more frequently in the structures of the lower limb than in those of the upper. This is certainly the case in regard to bones. Sarcomata are rare in voluntary muscles and in nerve-trunks, and the majority of the recorded cases, excluding the optic nerve, have been observed in the muscles and nerves of the lower limb. The ovaries and the uterus are organs closely associated in functions, but sarcomata are fre- quent in the ovaries but unusual in the uterus. Lastly, there is the important question, can an innocent connective-tissue tumour change its character and become malignant? In the majority of instances the facts indicate the insufficiency of our means of distinction rather than an actual metamorphosis of tissue. A long study of the histogenesis of tumours has convinced the writer that the clearly innocent and the decidedly malignant tumours present distinct histological features, but there are intermediate varieties which cannot be sharply defined in relation to these points, and this comes out in a very striking and suggestive way when an individual possesses supposed innocent tumours in multiples. For example, take uterine fibroids when they are multiple; tumours may be selected from one uterus of which some are so hard as to need a saw to divide them and others so soft as to be almost diffluent; such myxomatous tumours will recur after enucleation ; and careful records are acces- sible in which fibroids of simple structure have disseminated and destroyed life. This is true of multiple and hereditary cartilage-clad osteo- mata; and also true of the nodular form of molluscum fibrosum. It is so difficult to decide between the slow- growing spindle-celled sarcomata, the fibrifying sarcoma, and the gelatinous myxoma, that it is safer to include myxomata and the hard tumours called fibromata with the sarcomata until dis- tinctive methods have been detected by the histological chemist, biologist, or the bacteri- ologist. These difficulties are further exemplified by the peculiar but excessively rare disease known as chloroma or green cancer, in which sarcoma- like masses form on the bones of the skull and face, especially in the neighbourhood of the orbits, and secondarily infect other organs. After death the colour of the tumour-like masses is, on section, grass green. The nature of the disease is excessively obscure: some writers regard it as a form of leuksemia. It has lately been carefully studied by Melville Dunlop {British Medical Journal, 1902, vol. i. p. 1072). Angeiomata.—These are tumours composed of an abnormal formation of blood-vessels. The genus contains three species : 1. Simple ngevus. 2. Cavernous nsevus. 3. Plexiform angeioma. The simple nsevus is of very common occurrence and appears in the skin or mucous membrane as a patch of discoloration, which may be pink or deep blue. When the naevus is due to aberrations of venules it will be blue, but when arterioles preponderate it will be pink. The vessels of the nsevus are embedded in fat, and a few lymphatics are also present. Nsevi vary in size: some are scarcely perceptible, whilst others may involve the skin of half the trunk or a whole limb. They may occur in multiples and in any part of the skin, lips, labia, con- junctivae, or tongue. Small nsevi tend to dis- appear, some remain stationary and a few be- come converted into cavernous nsevi. These are sometimes called erectile tumours, because they structurally resemble the cavernous tissue of the penis. These tumours are common in the skin, and they have been observed in the rectum, subperitoneal tissue, liver, bladder, the larynx, wall of the right auricle of the heart, and in voluntary muscles such as the deltoid, the semimembranosus, and the gracilis. The plexiform angeioma or " aneurysm by anastomosis " consists of a number of abnormal blood-vessels of moderate size arranged parallel to each other, as in the retia mirabilia in the fore-limbs of sloths. Some of the plexiform angeiomata consist of arteries only, others of veins and arteries. Often the vessels are very tortuous. Fortunately this species of angeioma is rare: it has been observed on the scalp, forearm, and in the perineum surrounding the urethra.