98 TRADES, DANGEROUS artificial respiration. Whenever men working in chemical factories, cesspools, or sewers are brought into contact with sulphuretted hydro- gen, cylinders of oxygen should be ready in case of emergency, and when men are seen to fall down they should be at once brought out into the open air, and artificial respiration adopted. In addition it may be necessary to give them a hypodermic injection of liquor strychniee, and to administer stimulants. Chemical labourers, as a rule, are strong, healthy men to start with. Many of them, unfortunately, become intemperate, and prob- ably, therefore, part of their ill-health may be due to this circumstance. Their work is hard. They are paid good wages, but as they spend their earnings freely on drink, many of them feed badly. The tendency to alcoholic excess is, no doubt, largely due to the nature of their employment. Diseases of the respiratory organs are common in chemical workers, but the death- rate from phthisis is below the normal for all males. How far this circumstance is due to sulphur dioxide, hydrochloric acid, nitrous fumes and chlorine being unfavourable to the multipli- cation of tubercle bacilli, it is impossible to say. Some medical men hold the opinion that these gases are prejudicial to the development of the bacillus. In chemical works the number of deaths from accidents is unusually large. If we take 56 as the number of deaths for all males, chemical trades stand at 98, whereas shipwrights, who also have a high morality from accidents, number 63. The Manufacture and Uses of the Bichromate Compounds.—Although the manufacture of the bichromates is a special industry, still the subject may be conveniently dealt with under chemical trades. Workers in bichromate com- pounds are prone to suff'er from erosin of the septum nasi and from ulcers of the skin. Erosin of the nasal septum occurs in those who manu- facture sodium and potassium bichromate, but all who handle the salts are liable to ulceration of the skin. In making potassium bichromate, a mixture of chrome ironstone, potash, and lime is roasted together. Afterwards the fused mass is lixiviated with water, sulphuric acid being subsequently added to convert the neutral chromate into bichromate. The chrome iron- stone has first to be reduced to a fine powder before it is mixed with the lime and potash. When the mixture has been roasted for three hours it is withdrawn and allowed to cool, after which it is broken up and shovelled into large vats. It is when water and the solution of potassium sulphate are added that steam is given off which carries with it particles of chromate dust. After the addition of sulphuric acid the potassium bichromate in solution is run off into lead tanks, where it crystallises. The crystals have to be subsequently broken up by the workmen, and it is this process which is a source of danger in bichromate factories. The air of the room frequently contains, according to Heise, as much as 6'3 milligrammes of sodium bichromate per cubic metre. Dr. T. M. Legge, H.M. Medical Inspector of Factories, who has given considerable attention to this subject, found the nasal septum of the workmen frequently perforated. Some of the men were more susceptible than others. On an average, perforation of the septum occurred after six to twelve months' work, but others of the men who thus suffered had only worked as many weeks. The site of the ulceration is about a quarter of an inch from the lower and anterior margin of the septum. When perforation occurs it is extremely limited at first, but after the mucous membrane has been destroyed the ulcera- tion progresses rapidly, and extends as far up as the junction of the septum with the ethmoid and vomer. The loss of substance is preceded by symptoms of nasal catarrh and sneezing. Pain is not a prominent symptom. Even when perforation has taken place the general health remains good. There is, however, considerable inconvenience from the formation of plugs of mucus in the nares and from crusting of the discharge. The "chrome holes "or ulcers ob- served on the skin are sluggish and slow to heal. They are generally caused by a cut or wound of the skin becoming irritated by the bichromate. Men, therefore, who have wounds on the skin should abstain from work for a time. Personal cleanliness, too, is most important. The men when working with bichromate solutions should wear india-rubber gloves. Dust should be re- moved by fans. Workers in Arsenic Arsenic, in the form of arsenite of copper, Scheele's green, and Scheinfurt or Vienna green, has long been used as a colouring agent for wall-papers, for dyeing purposes, in the manu- facture of artificial flowers, and the fluid known as " sheep dip" for destroying tick on sheep. Although wall-papers containing arsenic are usually coloured green, yet red, orange, and brown papers may contain the poisonous metal. It is from the dust given off" by wall-papers, and arseniuretted hydrogen produced by vegetable moulds, that people have suffered through sleeping in bedrooms the walls of which had been lined by arsenically pigmented papers. The men who make Scheele's green often have pimples on the skin that develop into boils. Others suffer from ulcers of the skin, or com- plain of headache, nausea, and vomiting. Men who make sheep-dipping fluid, and who are not careful to wear india-rubber gloves, may suffer from paralysis. Arsenical neuritis affects, as a rule, the lower extremities. It is this location of the paralysis and the extreme pain complained of in handling the limb that differentiate the lesion from lead-poisoning. The arms and