264 URIC ACID special attention to those substances occurring in the organism from which purin bodies could be obtained, and also to those which might play a part in a synthesis similar to those just mentioned. Physiological work along those lines will be described when the mode of origin of uric acid is taken up. The final products of decomposition of the acid are carbonic acid, water, and ammonia, but there is a variety of paths along which this disintegration may take place before arriving at the final stage. When peroxide of lead is used as the oxidising agent, the most important products are carbonic acid, oxalic acid, urea, and allantoin ; while if nitric acid be employed, urea and alloxan are formed in the first place, then the latter breaks down on heating into carbonic acid and oxalylurea, the latter finally splitting up into oxalic acid and urea. Tests employed for the Detection of Uric Acid and its Salts (a) The microscopic appearance of the crystals, their pigmentation with uroerythrin or uro- chrome, and their solubility on heating in alkaline solution are characteristic. (6) They form definite crystalline compovmds with nitric and oxalic acids. (c) Murexide Test.—If a small quantity of the acid, or one of its salts, be placed in a porcelain lid, and then a few drops of nitric acid be added, on careful heating, either on water bath or over small open flame, a reddish- coloured residue is left, which gives a purple red colour with ammonia, or a bluish violet with a drop of caustic soda (added when residue is cold). On heating the colour disappears. {d) On heating a small quantity of the acid with an excess of Fehling solution, cuprous oxide separates out, but if the cupric salt be relative to the uric acid small in amount, then a white precipitate of cuprous urate forms. (e) It forms double salts with magnesium and silver, which possess a characteristic gelatinous appearance. One of the quantitative methods (Ludwig-Salkowski) depends upon this reaction. (/) It is separated out completely from its solutions on saturatioii with ammonium chloride in ammoniacal solution. Another quantitative method (Hopkins) depends upon this reaction. Methods for Uric Acid Estimation.—There are two which are commonly employed, namely, those of Salkowski and Hopkins, and, as the latter is the more suitable for comparatively rapid clinical work, it alone will be described here. Take 30 grammes of finely powdered pure ammonium chloride in a beaker, add 100 c.c. of urine, stirring the mixture for some time until solution is complete, then add sufficient ammonia to render it distinctly anmioniacal in odour. Place mixture aside for three to six hours, filter, then wash filter paper with boiling water until all the ammonium urate has been dissolved. Add to this solution sufficient hydro- chloric acid to make it slightly acid in reaction, evaporate down on water bath until volume is about 10-20 c.c, then add 1-2 c.c. of cone, hydrochloric acid and leave mixture overnight. After the deposit has been collected on an ash- poor filter paper, and washed chlorine free with distilled water (measured amount), then with alcohol and ether, it is finally dried to constant weight at 110° C. The ammonium urate of uric acid deposit may be titrated with warm sulphuric acid and permanganate solution, but only after all trace of the chloride has been removed by washing. Formation and Excretion of Uric Acid.—It is to be met with in largest quantity in the excreta of birds and snakes, where it forms the main nitrogenous waste-product excreted by the kidneys. In man the excretion varies from O'2-l gm., the average on mixed diet being about 0-6-0"7 gm. in twenty-four hours, but under certain abnormal conditions more than I gm. may be excreted. It is frequently but not always present in the urine of carnivora, the amount as a rule being very small; in herbi- vora it is probably always to be discovered, although also only in small quantity. It has been extracted from various organs, but only in very small quantities, at least in mammals, traces having been detected in the liver, spleen, pancreas, and perhaps also in the normal blood. In the liver of birds it is present in appreciable quantity, certainly more than in the other organs. The influence of diet upon the excretion is un- doubted, although the reasons for the effects produced are still subj ects of controversy. Flesh diet causes a rise in uric acid excretion, while a vegetable diet is accompanied by a fall. Where there is a breaking down of tissues, especially of those rich in nucleins (proteid substances con- taining a purin radicle), there is a rise in uric acid relative to the urea. Just as nucleins or their decomposition products derived from tissue metabolism ("endogenous") produce this in- creased excretion, so also does a diet rich in those proteids ("exogenous"). An increase has also been noticed two to five hours after food has been taken, containing neither nucleins nor purin bases. In the last-mentioned case, of course, the mode of formation may be of the same nature as in the others, namely, the result of nuclein katabolism occurring during the digestion leucocytosis. The effect of such variations in the diet as increase in the amount of water or alkalies is comparatively slight, and may be explained in various ways, e.g. a purely diuretic effect or an increase in nitrogenous metabolism. Under mixed diet the ratio of uric acid to urea is from 1 : 50 to about 1 : 70, but there are often marked variations. In the newly born the ratio is 1 :13.