465 VICE partly because their sexual nerve-tracts are less detached than in men, more intimately and widely related to other functions, and partly because the conscience-reaction is almost in- variably greater and more disastrous in women. It is enough to say that masturbation by women is much commoner than is generally suspected by physicians, and that it is probably our duty, in neurasthenic and allied cases which bafHe us, to overcome the difficulty of determin- ing whether this is or is not a factor in the case. The treatment is not more difficult than in men, but we must bear in mind this im- portant difference, that, while many men may underestimate the evil effect of bad habits, a woman almost invariably exaggerates it, and one's attention in her case should be explicitly directed towards a more confident and unself- conscious state of mind. Nothing is to be gained by a more elaborate study of perverted sexual practices. It may be admitted that the subject is an interesting one; but the interest of it does not seem to be wholly scientific. The most that can be done is to suggest that these evils are much com- moner than is supposed, and that physicians should be alive to them, and talk the subject over not only with boys but with parents, many of whom are in a state of crass ignorance on the subject. And a word of warning is necessary in dispute with certain writers who attribute most cases of bad habit to perverted instinct, and who assume a congenital constitution where- by the mind of the patient—both in idea and in feeling—is naturally attracted by the person of some one of the same sex. Such cases are of extreme rarity. Nearly every case is one of perverse habit, not one of perverse instinct. To put the matter plainly and by the method of bald illustration, when a case comes before us of a man who shuns women and makes love to men, it is safe to assume that his sexual mechanisms were fairly normal in childhood, but that loHg association in immorality has given him an irresistible taste for the wrong thing. There are, however, genuine cases of congenital per- version, and it is hard to conceive any appro- priate treatment of them short of segregation or castration. Vichy. See Balneology {France, Alka- line) ; Mineral Waters (Alkaline). Vicq d'Azyr's Bundle.—A band of nerve-fibres passing from the median nucleus of the corpus mammillare of the brain to the optic thalamus (anterior tubercle). Vicq d'Azyr's Operation.—Incision of the crico-thyroid membrane of the larynx. Vida.g'O. See Balneology (Portugal). Vidian Canal.—A canal in the sphenoid bone passing from the foramen lacerum to the vol. X spheno-maxillary fossa, and named after Guidi (Lat. Vidius), an Italian anatomist; the Vidian artery passes through the canal. Vienna Paste or Caustic.— A mixture of slaked lime and caustic potash, used to destroy small growths, such as warts and caruncles. Vierordt's Method. See Blood (Methods of Clinical Examination, Estimation of Total Quantity). Vieussens, Annulus of. See Physiology, Circulation (Intra-Cardiac Nervous Mechanism, Sympathetic Fibres). Vieussens, Valve of.—The anterior part of the roof of the fourth ventricle of the brain. Vigrilambulism. Sleep-walking or somnambulism. See Hysteria (Vigilambulism). Vig^ilium orVig^il.—Absence of sleep. See Coma Vigil. Vil lef ranche. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts (Riviera). Villi.—Hair-like projections growing from a mucous surface (e.g. the intestinal villi), or from the outer aspect of the chorion (chorionic villi), or on synovial membranes; the singular form is villus (Lat. villus, a shaggy hair). See FcETUs AND Ovum, Development of (Chorion and Placenta). Vina. — Wines; pharmaceutical prepara- tions in which sherry is used to extract the drug; examples are found in Vinum Ipecacuanhse, Vinum Ferri Citratis, and Vinum Quininse (in the two last named orange wine is used instead of sherry). See Prescribing ; Antimonium ; Colchicum ; Ferrum ; etc. Vi nad io. See Balneology (Italy, Sulphur Waters). Vincent's Ang^ina.—A pharyngitis resembling diphtheria, characterised by the presence of a fusiform bacillus; there is a pseudo-membranous inflammation; the symp- toms are like those of diphtheria. See Diph- theria. Vincula AccessoriaTendinum. —Additional insertions of the flexor sublimis and of the flexor profundus digitorum (Lat. vinculum, a band). Vineg'ar.—Dilute and impure acetic acid (C2H4O2); in Pharmacy a solution of a drug in vinegar or in acetic acid ; there ai"e two official preparations of Acidum Aceticum, viz. Acidum Aceticum Dilutum (dose, J to 2 fl. dr.), and Oxymel, containing 1 part of acetic acid and 1 30