VESICUL^ SEMINALES 454 ■where the vesicular walls are atonic and no perivesicular inflammation exists, the cure is generally prompt, while in cases where the sac is bound down by extensive perivesicular in- flammation or the individual is advanced in years, the relief from subjective symptoms may be slow, and a positive cure of the pathological process can never be said to occur. Still, even in the worst cases, time and attention will generally suffice to rid the patient of all local distress and inconvenience- During the active stage of treatment coitus should not be practised, and everything tending te produce sexual ex- citement should be avoided. The stripping process effects a cure in seminal vesiculitis by aiding and strengthening the mechanism of ejaculation, and by promoting a reabsorption of 'inflammatory exudate. In all forms of seminal vesiculitis the mechanism of ejaculation is impaired, and, in some instances, it is rendered wholly ineffective. The stripping process, in large measure, accomplishes the results of ejaculation, while the muscles con- cerned in the act remain passive ; and it does in many instances what the weakened mechanism has been unable to do—that is, it expels the jellified pathological fluid from the sac. The muscular apparatus by the passive exercise re- covers its tone; it becomes better nourished, and the inflammatory adhesions which may have bound it down grow elastic and disappear. During the local treatment the patient should live well, and take regular exercise—horseback riding and bicycling should be prohibited. In very chronic cases where progress towards re- covery is slow, an entire rest from treatment for a month or so at a time is often of benefit. The technique of stripping diseased vesicles is thus described by its originator (Dr. Eugene Fuller of New York):— To accomplish the treatment, the patient presenting himself with a full bladder, should, while standing with his knees straight, bend the body forward at right angles. Then the operator should introduce the forefinger of one hand well into the rectum, the fist of the other hand exercising firm counter-pressure over the pubes. By these means the end of the forefinger will, in all ordinary cases, reach well beyond the posterior margin of the prostate. The bodies of the vesicles can thus be detected, one on each side, beyond the posterior prostatic border (only the lower half of the body of the vesicle can be felt ordinarily by the finger, the rest being beyond reach). After the forefinger has been so introduced, firm pressure should be made with its tip on the body of the vesicle to be treated as far back as it is possible to reach. Then the finger-tip, the pressure being main- tained, should be slowly and firmly drawn forward along the line of the vesicle. The manoeuvre is aided by the counter-pressure over the pubes with the free hand. This pro- cess may be repeated several times in connection with each vesicle. In this manner some of the vesicular contents, provided the sac be diseased and distended, can be pressed out along the ejaculatory duct, and into the prostatic sinus. After the manipulation the urine should be voided in order that the surgeon may see how much has been expressed. This treatment should be repeated not oftener than once in four days, and in most cases imder active treat- ment as often as once a week. If it is done too frequently, or too severe pressure with the finger is employed, acute symptoms may be stirred up, which may leave the patient worse off, apparently, than before treatment was com- menced, besides at times causing an acute epididymitis. The active stage of treatment lasts from four to six weeks in the most favour- able cases, to eight or nine months, and possibly longer, in severe and chronic ones. The stripping process is productive of good results not only by reason of its expressing pathological material from the cavity of the vesicle, but also by stimulating, in connection with the vesicle walls and surrounding tissues, a reabsorption of inflammatory congestions and exudations. Tuberculous Vesiculitis. — The seminal vesicles are occasionally the seat of primary tubercle, but in the majority of cases the disease is associated with similar affections of other parts of the genital organs, most fre- quently the testicle and prostate. Of 36 cases of disease of the seminal vesicles collected by Dreyer, in 18 the affection was of a tuberculous nature, and of these cases one-half occurred in persons over forty years of age. It is often associated with tubercle in distant regions of the body, and is not infrequently secondary to gonorrhoeal inflammations of the vesicle. Primary Tuberculosis of the Se7ninal Vesicle.— In primary or acute tuberculosis of the seminal vesicle the inflammation rarely confines itself to the sac and its walls, but shows a marked tendency to involve the perivesicular tissues. Such perivesicular inflammation may contain purulent foci, and may extend backward and involve the peritoneum. The disease often spreads along the cord to the epididymis. In a subacute form there is a milder degree of inflammation, and fewer subjective symptoms. The walls of the seminal vesicle become moder- ately thickened, and little but local tenderness is revealed by palpation. Such cases may end a resolution, and rarely, unless aggravated by some exciting cause, extend beyond the seminal vesicle. Secondary Tubercular Seminal Vesiciditis.— Secondary or chronic tubercular inflammation extending from the urinary tract represents a severe pathological disturbance. The chronic form, although not very painful, except when