TONSILS, DISEASES OF 43 often render these lymphoid masses a positive source of danger to the individual. Recent researches have amply proved that the tubercle bacillus may gain access to the cervical glands and the general system through the tonsils, while there is good ground for believing that the poison of rheumatic fever, scarlatina, and diphtheria may first invade the organism through the portals of the tonsil. Further- more, it has been shown that septic infection, terminating in pulmonary gangrene, certain cases of endocarditis, acute phlegmon of the pharynx, septic thrombo-phlebitis, and acute suppurative osteomyelitis, may arise from a primary infection of the tonsils by pathogenic organisms. Even in conditions of health the tonsillar crypts are often filled with evil-smelling con- tents consisting of disintegrating epithelium cells, fibrinous debris, and various septic organ- isms, amongst which staphylococci, streptococci, pneumococci, and leptothrix are abundant. Under the combined influences of certain external causes and a lowered condition of the general health, such organisms may rapidly develop, causing a local inflammation accom- panied by constitutional eifects. The part played by the " supratonsillar fossa " in many forms of recurrent tonsillar inflamma- tion has been investigated by Paterson. This vestigial space of varying size and shape represents a portion of the second branchial cleft, and is situated between the anterior and the posterior faucial pillars, at the upper end of the tonsil. It communicates with the mouth by an orifice between the aforementioned pillars and also with the uppermost lacunae of the tonsils. Like the latter it is often filled with septic matter which may find difficulty in dis- charging into the mouth, and lacunar or peri- tonsillar inflammation may result, or the re- tained material may calcify and ultimately form a tonsillar calculus. A strabismus hook will be found an excellent instrument for examining this cavity. Tonsillitis or inflammation of the tonsils may be acute or chronic. Acute tonsillitis may be classified in the following manner : ^— I. Toxic tonsillitis, without any visible exudate. (a) Eheumatic. (b) Catarrhal or influenzal. (c) Tonsillitis occurring in infective diseases, e.ff. scarlet fever, measles, syphilis, etc. II. Infectious tonsillitis, with exudate. (a) Lacunar tonsillitis. (b) Diphtheritic. III. Parenchymatous tonsillitis 1 both of which (quinsy), j-may end in IV. Peritonsillitis, ) suppuration. 1 The above classification is modified from that of Sandner {Medical Summary, Dec. 1900). V. Phlegmonous or gangrenous tonsillitis (in septic pharyngitis). VI. Acute ulcerative tonsillitis. Acute Tonsillitis Etiology.—Lacunar, parenchymatous, and peritonsillar inflammations, which are the more frequent forms of tonsillitis, have so many features in common that they may be discussed together. Such inflammations most frequently occur during adolescence, and not rarely appear in epidemic form during the spring and fall of the year. Whilst cold acts as an exciting cause of tonsillitis, the rheumatic diathesis has, during recent years, been almost universally regarded as the most important predisposing cause of the throat aff"ection. The frequent association of the diseases in the same individual, their common etiological factors, and their amena- bility to the same remedies, lend support to this view. On the other hand the sudden onset, clinical course, infectious nature of and consti- tutional symptoms associated with acute tonsil- litis, seem to point to a general toxaemia of which the tonsil is the source. Other predisposing causes of acute tonsillitis are the presence of chronically enlarged tonsils, the gouty diathesis, and conditions of ill-health. Acute lacunar tonsillitis is undoubtedly con- tagious, the infective material being conveyed by milk, water, and air. Defective sanitary conditions will often explain the frequent occurrence of tonsillitis in a household. In young children acute inflammation of the fauces should awake suspicions of the onset of one of the exanthems, while secondary syphilis must not be forgotten in the adult. Traumatism, septic matter arising from carious teeth, and intranasal operations not aseptically performed, are local causes of acute tonsillitis. Recurrent attacks are often due to the accumulation of septic matter in the supra- tonsillar fossa {vide supra), the outlet of which has been unduly narrowed by previous attacks of inflammation. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology.—In the toxic forms of tonsillitis, e.g. rheumatism, influ- enza, and scarlatina, there is a general hyper- eemia of the fauces in which the tonsils partici- pate. In scarlatina the parts may be oedema- tous and of a livid red colour. In lacunar tonsillitis, although the inflamma- tion is mainly limited to the lacunae, the tonsils are often much swollen and hyperaemic, while the crypts are filled with a yellowish creamy exudate composed of epithelial scales, leucocytes, fibrinous debris, and various septic organisms, amongst which staphylococci and streptococci usually predominate, while diplococci, tetracocci, and pneumococci are present in less numbers. Hence, while a mixed infection is the rule, yet