286 URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN firmed this for the convalescent period, but observed, on the other hand, a greatly increased output of nitrogen during the acute attack. For the estimation of the total nitrogen excretion Kjeldahl's well-known method is employed. Urea.—Some 30 grammes of urea are excreted by a healthy adult in the twenty-four hours, forming about 2 per cent of the urine. The estimation of urea has become a common clinical proceeding, and most hospital wards are provided with the necessary apparatus for the purpose, but it is permissible to doubt whether the results obtained are, as a rule, of much clinical value. It will be clear from what has gone before that, in forming any conchisions from the urea excretion, the amount of nitrogen contained in the food of the patient nmst be taken into account, and in renal cases this is as a rule much below the usual quantity. It is hardly necessary to point out that unless the total urine of the twenty-four hours has been collected and measured, and unless the specimen employed has been taken from this total, the results obtained are of no value at all. In fevers the output of urea is markedly in- creased, and a still more conspicuous increase, up to 100 grammes or more in the day, is observed in diabetes mellitus. The increase in fevers is usually associated with a diet poor in nitrogen, whereas in diabetes the contrary is the case. However, the great increase in the latter disease is far too pronounced to be wholly attributable to the proteid diet, and can only be referred to an abnormally active tissue metabolism. In fevers the increase doubtless has a similar cause, but it is not proportionate to the height of the fever, and in diseases ending in a crisis, such as pneumonia, the maximum excretion may occur shortly after the crisis. Diminished excretion of urea is observed in some nervous diseases and has been often noticed in Addison's disease, in which it perhaps has a nervous origin. Otherwise a marked diminution of the iirea output is usually due to one of two causes, viz. diminished formation, such as results from certain diseases of the liver, which organ is the chief seat of urea formation, or diminished excretion, such as occurs in various forms of renal disease. The diminished output of urea in hepatic diseases reaches its most conspicuous develop- ment in cases of acute yellow atrophy, in which the excretion may be practically abolished. It is seen in a less pronounced form in acute phos- phorus poisoning, and in some cases of cirrhosis hepatis, in which disease, as is well known, the hepatic parenchyma may undergo marked de- generative changes. Under such conditions the abnormal nitrogenous substances leucin and tyrosin may make their appearance in consider- able quantities, and the decrease of urea is usually attended by an increased excretion of ammonia, which may either be due to a failure of the conversion which it normally undergoes in the liver, or may result, as in diabetes, from the formation of abnormal acids. As regards parenchymatous and interstitial nephritis, what has been said of the total nitro- gen excretion applies equally to that of urea, which may be below the normal, or even in- creased at different periods in a given case. Some importance has been attached to the relative excretion of phosphates and of urea in renal disease, as affording evidence of the portions of the renal epithelium chiefly affected. Seeing that the excretion of phosphates takes place from the glomeruli, and that of urea from the renal tubules, we should expect a nephritis which is chiefly glomerular to specially affect the phosphatic output and one chiefly tubular that of urea. Such differences have been actually observed. The method employed for the estimation of urea in clinical work is based upon its decom- position by sodium hypobromite with the libera- tion of nitrogen and carbon dioxide. The ab- sorption of 'the carbon dioxide is ensured by the presence of an excess of sodium hydrate in the hypobromite solution, and the nitrogen is collected and measured over water. The hypo- bromite solution employed should always be freshly prepared. Various forms of apparatus have been devised for such estimations, and these will be found described in works on urinary analysis. In order that the results obtained may have an approach to accuracy, the readings of the column of nitrogen should be corrected, at least for the temperature of the air, if not for barometric pressure and the tension of aqueous vapour. The apparatus is usually so graduated that the percentage of urea in the urine tested may be read off directly. Uric Acid.—The excretion of uric acid by healthy adults varies within somewhat wide limits, viz. from 0'2 to 1'25 grammes in the twenty-four hours. The amount is greater with a flesh than with a vegetable diet, and recent researches render it highly probable that, as Horbaczewski first pointed out, the nuclein of the food and tissues is the source of the uric acid excreted in the iirine, and that it is not a product of proteid metabolism in general. Glandular structures such as thymus, which are rich in nuclein, have a specially conspicuous effect in increasing the excretion of uric acid when they are taken as foods. Owing to their sparing solubility uric acid and its salts are apt to proclaim their presence in the urine and tissues, and have consequently attracted much attention from clinical observers and chemical pathologists alike. Whilst it is the view of the majority that the deleterious effects which uric acid produces in the organism are limited to those which result