237 UNDULANT FEVER undulant fever, though always described, is very rarely seen in patients that have been kept throughout on a generous diet. In the same way subcutaneous hsemorrhage or pui'pura, though apparently extremely common two or three years ago, are now scarcely ever seen. Nervous System.—Next to the pyrexia the writer would place affections of the nervous system as the most common symptom of this disease; a neuritis, more or less severe, occur- ring in quite half the cases. The nerves especi- ally affected are the sciatics, circumflex, and peroneals, named in the order of frequency, although almost any nerve may be attacked. This neuritis comes on quite suddenly, is usually acutely painful, preventing any volun- tary movement of the affected limb, and pressure along the course of the affected nerve being almost unbearable. The acuteness of the symptoms passes in twenty-four to forty-eight hours, but a subacute neuritis of the nerve is usually left, which may continue, varying in severity from day to day, but often lasting, with remissions, throughout the course of the fever, and sometimes for many months after the fever has quite subsided. There is no doubt that the products of this micrococcus seem to have a special and selective action on the central and especially the peri- pheral nerve tissues, and also probably on the fibrous sheaths of nerves. Their localised and metastatic nature, the fact that they often per- sist for months after the subsidence of the fever, and the severity of the pains at the back of the neck, in the lumbar region, at the back of the eyeballs, the mental irritability and the wake- fulness, all point to this virus having a special action on the cerebro-spinal system. In severe cases with high temperature an active form of delirium is usually present, and at the end of a long attack of fever there is considerable nervous prostration with impair- ment of mental capacity. Irritability of the nervous system is also shown by an increase in the reflexes and cutaneous hypersesthesia over certain spots supplied by specially affected nerves. The importance and frequency of this neuritis has not been sufficiently noted in the literature of this disease, whereas, on the other hand, much is written about the frequency of arthritic symptoms, Hughes stating that effusion into joints occurs in 40 per cent of the cases. Arthritic Symptoms.—In the writer's experi- ence effusion into joints is extremely rare. It is common to hear that a patient with this fever is "crippled with rheumatism," but on examination of the case it almost invariably turns out that the patient is crippled with neuritis, there being no effusion into the sus- pected joint or joints. Effusion into joints, however, does occur; in the writer's cases in under 1 per cent of the total cases. It usually takes the form of a chronic or subacute effusion which takes a con- siderable time in getting absorbed, and is quite unaffected by the administration of salicylates. The knee is the joint most commonly affected. A passive effusion also occasionally occurs into tendon sheaths, the extensor tendons at the wrist and the tendon Achillis being the ones the writer has seen affected. Circulatory System.—The only special point about the circulatory system in this fever is that the nerves of the heart are affected in the general nerve disturbance, causing an increased rate of heart's action, not at all in propor- tion to the degree of fever; also palpitation from the most trivial causes is common. A patient who by his temperature chart appears to be having a not at all severe attack of fever, may really be in much greater danger from heart-failure than a case with severe symptoms and high fever. The implication of the nervous vaso-motor system in this disease must always be kept in mind in the treatment of cases. The few deaths the writer has seen from this dis- ease have all been caused directly by heart- failure, and at the post-mortem examination the muscle fibre of the heart has been found thin, pale, greasy, and acutely degenerated. Urinary and Sexual Systems.—The urine is usually normal, except during periods of high fever, when a trace of albumen may be present. The fact of retention of urine being likely to occur in acute cases must always be kept in mind. Epididymitis and orchitis are fairly common complications in this disease, not usually of a very acute or painful type, and soon subside with rest and warmth. Complications. — Hyperpyrexia may occur ; it is usually easily controlled with ice-packing, but cases sometimes are very stubborn to any form of external cold application or antipyretic drugs. The best guard against getting hyper- pyrexia is to have a routine rule for external application of cold whenever the temperature goes above 103-6 degrees. Cardiac failure is the great complication to be guarded against in the writer's opinion. It must be remembered we are dealing with a fever of very long duration, and not only that, but a fever in which the nervous apparatus of the heart is often seriously involved, and our treat- ment must be directed towards keeping the heart muscle in as good condition as possible for the long-continued extra work that is thrown on it. Pulmonary congestion often occurs, but is secondary to a failing heart. Pleuritic and pericardial effusions are said to occur, but the writer has not met with them. Treatment.—It may be at once stated that no drug has any specific action on the course of this fever, although almost every drug in the