561 WRY-NECK OR TORTICOLLIS layer of the cervical fascia which lies beneath it is fully exposed. This also may need some touches of the knife before the head can be drawn into the improved position. All the rigid bands of muscle and fascia being divided, a wide gaping wound is made, in the depths of which the surgeon may see the sub- clavian vein heaving with the respiratory move- ments, to say nothing of the swollen jugulars and their tributaries. If in the course of the operation a branch of vein has to be divided, it is first leisurely and securely dealt with, for the surgeon sees every structure before he cuts it, and has ample opportunity for recognising it. And this, surely, is a great comfort. Before the wound is sutured it is well to have the head vigorously bent over to the other side, whilst the face is made to rotate to the affected side in order to stretch all the shortened struc- tures to the vitmost, and thus to begin the cor- rective treatment whilst the child is under the anaesthetic. Force thus vigorously applied is extremely helpful. When every resisting band has been divided with the point of the knife or scratched through with a director, and all bleeding has been stayed, the skin-wound is closed with an aseptic suture of horse hair or silk-worm gut, and dressed with a seal of gauze and collodion ; or an aseptic pad is secured over the place by a bandage which runs round the neck and under the armpit, and the child is put to bed with the head steadied, in a slightly improved position, between two large sand pillows. Sometimes after the sterno-mastoid has been divided, and bands of the deep fascia have been scratched through or efficiently stretched, the border of the trapezius or of some other cervical muscle may be found short and rigid, but this complication can easily be put right subse- quently by massage. It is occasionally urged that, in the treatment of wry-neck in a girl who will eventually have to wear low-necked dresses, the open method is not advisable, in that it will be followed by a permanent and possibly an unsightly scar. But, in my opinion, this is a matter of compara- tively small importance when the question of the effectual and safe performance of a necessary and a delicate operation is at stake. As regards the possible disfigurement of the scar by a keloid thickening, this is likely to occur only in a tuberculous subject. And should it occur, it may be trusted to disappear as the child grows in years and in health. As regards the respective merits of the sub- cutaneous and the open operations, I would say that for some years I practised the subcutaneous method, but that I have long since entirely discarded it for the open operation, and I would not revert to it under any consideration. Redard goes so far as to maintain that the great progress which has been realised in the treatment of wry- VOL. X neck is chiefly due to the general adoption of the open method. In certain cases resection of a piece, or even of the whole, of the sterno-mastoid has been practised. Personally, I have never seen a case in which I could have thought so severe a measure to be necessary or justifiable. The after-treatment should be begun as soon as the stitches have been removed, which is, as a rule, well within the week, though if for any cause the healing of the skin-wound has been delayed, stretchings and manipulations must be postponed. However, if the division of the muscle has been thoroughly carried out, the divided ends having been left, perhaps, far asunder, the delay of a few days is of no serious import. The operation having been thoroughly per- formed, no splint " brace " or apparatus of any kind is needed, not even in the case of a young- adult. If the patient be a very young child the rectification of the position of the head and the straightening of the cervical column must be gradually effected by the surgeon's hands, and in this he may obtain much assistance from a competent nurse or an intelligent parent. At night the child should be made to lie upon the affected side, with the head so placed upon a thick and firm pillow that even during sleep the treatment is not entirely remitted. If the child be old enough to walk he should be encouraged to go about with a shot-can, or some other weight, hanging in his hand so as to pull down the shoulder to the utmost, and he should also be made to incline his head over to the opposite side. And many times during the day this drilling may be supplemented by firm massage and manipulations of the neck. Rigid retentive apparatus of all sorts would be pre- judicial, in that it would prevent the needful exercise of the muscles. The after-treatment demands long-continued care and patience ; it is obvious that deformities extending secondarily to the bones themselves cannot be corrected by the mere cutting of a contracted muscle. If the patient be capable of taking an intelli- gent interest in the after-treatment of his case, he and his surgeon will be able to plan all sorts of games or exercises which will have the effect of stretching the tissues on the short side of his neck, and hurrying on the complete effacement of the deformity. Spasmodic Wry-Neck As the result of central nervous irritation in adult persons, the sterno-mastoid may be impli- cated in persistent rhythmic contractions, which, by violently jerking the side of the head and neck, may cause considerable pain and distress, or seriously interfere with the usefulness and comfort of the patient. Spasmodic wry-neck has to be distinguished from hysterical contrac- 36