538 WOUNDS until only oozing remains to be commanded, which is best done by gauze swabs. Ligatures, preferably of catgut, had better now be tied with reef-knots round the points grasped by the forceps, and these taken off; or torsion may be tried, but it is a less certain haemostatic than the ligature. In some situations, for instance, near a bone, it may be necessary to underrun a vessel with a needle armed with catgut, which is then tied (suture-ligature); or a tenaculum hook may be required to draw up a bleeding point and render it more accessible. All liga- tures are to be cut off short near the knot. Troublesome capillary oozing will often yield to the affusion of lotion or boiled water (to which common salt may be added in the proportion of one drachm to a pint), at a temperature of 115° F. Carnot's solution (gelatine 5 parts, calcium chloride 1 part, water 100 parts) has been recommended for the same purpose; and more recently preparations of adrenalin. Pack- ing with a gauze tampon should only be re- sorted to when ligation is not available. Incised wounds bleed much more freely than the contused and lacerated, as they are without the irregularities so conducive to coagulation possessed by the latter. In particular, deep punctures, as knife-stabs, into fair-sized arteries, are often attended by most dangerous haemor- rhage. Every such case must be treated on its merits ; in many it will be necessary to explore the track by making a free incision so as to reach the wounded artery, which is then to be tied both above and below the wound, and divided between the two ligatures if there is undue tension of that portion; in others it will be justifiable to rely on pressure without dis- turbing the clot which has, perhaps, already formed a more or less adequate plug, cases of this class being regarded as exceptions to the almost invariable rule requiring wounds to be opened up. The indications for hsemostasis having been thus complied with, the wound is to be covered with a gauze swab while attention is given to the next step. 2. Disinfection of the Wound and its Surround- inxfs.—This will repay the utmost care that can be bestowed. With the region well uncovered, first the area around the wound should be systematically and most thoroughly cleaned. Here the razor aided by soap lather is invalu- able, not only on the hairy scalp, but wherever it can be applied, as it removes gross dirt to- gether with the outer epidermal scales. The precaution should be observed of drawing the blade in planes parallel to the wound or away from it, so as to avoid carrying dirt up to the margins. After shaving (or, if that be im- practicable, without it) the surface is to be well scrubbed with soap and hot water, the brush having been previously boiled in 1 per cent sodium carbonate solution and kept ready for use in antiseptic fluid. Free ablution with boiled water will wash away traces of soap and loosened epithelium. Then follows brisk rubbing with methylated spirit on wool, commencing at the edges of the wound and working outwards in concentric rings, to get rid of fatty substances. Antiseptic lotion is to be douched over the purified area, which is then fenced off by towels as a safeguard against reinfection. A word or two may be here interpolated as to the choice of antiseptic. Having regard to the fact that skilled workers, each employing a different chemical selected out of a large variety, can all point to equally successful results, it seems unquestionable that scrupulous observ- ance of detail is incomparably more important than the actual substance employed. The ideal antiseptic has yet to be discovered. Intensely germicidal chemicals are irritants to the tissue- elements—though the harmfulness of this, so far as antiseptics of the strength in ordinary use are concerned, has perhaps been magnified, and at all events it is a far lesser evil than sepsis. After several years' ample experience of izal in the casualty department of the Queen's Hospital, Birmingham, the writer can speak very favourably of this substance in the treat- ment of accidental wounds. He prefers it as the antiseptic for routine purposes on the following grounds :—(i.) it is a powerful germi- cide ; (ii.) it is not poisonous if absorbed; (iii.) it is less irritating to the tissues than some of its chief rivals; (iv.) it does not tarnish instru- ments ; (v.) it is not costly. For recent wounds a dilution of 1 part izal to 800 parts of boiled water may be used; in suppurating cases and for application to the skin, double or treble that strength is indicated. Turning now to the wound itself, this must be dealt with according to the conditions met with. There may be a simple incision or any gradation of wound up to an extensive laceration whose ragged surfaces are begrimed with grease from machinery or road-dirt which has been ground into the tissues by a cart-wheel. The merest bathing will suffice for the former; whereas the latter demands thorough-going measures, which can only be adopted, speaking generally, after the patient has been anaes- thetised. The first essential in every case is to remove all extraneous matter. Defined and fairly loose foreign bodies, e.g. hair, grit, glass, straw, mud, can be removed by means of forceps, sharp spoon, and swab, supplemented by liberal douching; grease and embedded particles will need the careful employment of hand-brush and soap; dirt still more ingrained can only be cleared away at the sacrifice of some tissue by the judicious use of scalpel and scissors. The danger lurking in partially concealed spaces is to be remembered, and the wound enlarged when necessary and the roof of any undermined tract laid open, in order to fully expose the