UVULAPTOSIS 380 UvulaptOSiS.—A pendulous state of the uvula. See Uvula, Diseases of. Uvulatomy or UVUlotOmy.—Ex- cision of the uvula, the instrument used for this purpose being a uvulatome. See Uvula, Diseases of. UvulitiS.—Inflammation of the uvula. See Uvula, Diseases of. Vaccination. Introduction 380 Importance of Smallpox in recent Centuries ...... 380 Vaccination— History 384 Results and Statistics . . . 388 Objections to Vaccination . . . 395 Injuries from Vaccination . . . 395 Vaccination Act, 1898 .... 397 Results of 397 Suggested Alternatives . . . 398 Suggested Amendments .... 398 See also Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Exanthe- matous Conjunctivitis); Psoriasis {Etiology); Smallpox {Treatment); Syphilis {Acq%dred in Children). Vaccination.—The value of vaccination as a protective against smallpox cannot be correctly estimated without an acquaintance with the severity and prevalence of smallpox in the pre-vaccination era. If the evil was a trifling one, legislation in support of its prevention cannot be defended. But if the evil was great, and if experience proves that vaccination pro- tects from smallpox, legislation may properly enforce it on a population of which a very large proportion can never estimate correctly the importance of the danger from which it is intended to save them. What, then, is the record of history as to the effects of smallpox before it was modified by vaccination % It is unnecessary for our purpose to enter upon this subject from an antiquarian standpoint. The point we have to consider is this. Was smallpox a grave social danger in the centuries immediately preceding the intro- duction of Vaccination 1 History proves with- out doubt that it was. In communities which were in touch with each other, smallpox was essentially a disease of infancy, not because the infection was only taken by children, but because the majority of the adult population were pro- tected by having had the disease in childhood. Of the four great plagues of infancy, measles, whooping-cough, scarlatina, and smallpox, the last was the most common and the most dreaded. It attacked almost all exposed to the infection ; it killed at least one in seven of those attacked, in many epidemics as many as one in thi-ee. The type of the disease, then as now, varied much in severity. In all but mild cases it was an illness of the gravest suffering, many of its victims were blinded for life, and a' large majority were terribly disfigured. The one ameliorative fact was that the disease was in large measure self-protective. Children who struggled through it did not, as a rule, have it again. They were protected by their early sufferings ; so that where smallpox returned at short intervals in a community, as it did in large towns, the adult population was, for the most part, immune, most of them having had it in childhood. The case was different in isolated country districts and out-of-the-way corners of the country, where the greater part of the adult population had never before been exposed to the infection. If in such a locality smallpox was by chance introduced, it was not limited to the children of the community, it attacked all ages equally, in proportion to their exposure to in- fection. Infection, then as now, depended upon the co-existence of the two factors, the contagious poison and the contact with it of unprotected people. Adults who had not gained immunity by going through the disease in childhood were almost sure, if they moved about the world at all, to meet the contagion at some time and to take it. One of Horace Walpole's correspondents says: " Poetry is as universally contagious as smallpox; every one catches it once in a life- time at least, and the sooner the better." The immense effect of a large part of the adult population being immune to a second attack of the disease is seen if we compare even severe smallpox epidemics in England in the seven- teenth or eighteenth centuries with those which occurred when the disease was introduced into new places where no one had had it previously, and where, therefore, no one was immune. Prescott, in his History of Mexico, describes the ravages of the disease in 1520. He says :— " Maxixca, the old lord of Kascala, had fallen a victim to that terrible epidemic—the smallpox, which was now sweeping over the land like fire over the prairies, smiting down prince and peasant, and adding another to the long train of woes that followed the march of the white men. It was imported into the country, it is said, by a negro slave. . . . The poor natives sought relief in their usual practice of bathing in cold water, which greatly aggravated their trouble. It spread rapidly over the country to the Astec capital where Montezuma's successor fell one of its first victims. Thence it swept down towards the borders of the Pacific, leaving its path strewn with the dead bodies of the natives who, in the strong language of a con- temporary, perished in heaps like cattle stricken witli the murrain. ... So great was the number of those who died of this disease that there was no possibility of burying them, and in Mexico the bodies were thrown into the canals then