WATERHOUSE-FORBES STERILISER 524 fuel, of rapidly cooling the water, and of pre- venting loss of the gaseous constituents and so preventing insipidity. Water Itch.—A skin disease of the tropics; " sore feet of coolies " or "pani ghao." >S'ee Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Pani Ghao). Waters. See Balneology; Mineral Waters ; Labour, Stages and Duration {Phenomena of First Stage, Rupture of the Membranes, Escape of Liqvar Amnii). Water, Toast. See Invalid Feeding {Toast Water). Watery Vapour. See Climate {Indi- vidual Factors, Watery Vapour). Watt's Asphyxiator.—A means of testing the drainage system of a building; touch paper is used to produce the smoke which serves to indicate defects, and a draught is supplied by a fan. Wave. See Pulse {Sphygmographic Trac- ings); Physiology, Circulation {Arterial Pulse); etc. Wax. See Cera {Alba and Flava); Ear, External, Diseases op {Meatus, Excess of Cerumen). Waxy Degeneration.—Amyloid de- generation. See Lardaceous Degeneration. Weaning'.—Ablactation ; the cessation of maternal nursing. See Infant Feeding ( Wean- ing) ; Puerperium, Physiology {Lactation) ; PuERPERiUM, Pathology {Conditions Interfering with Suckling). Weather. See Climate ; Meteorology ; Sea Voyages ; Therapeutics, Health Resorts ; etc. Webbed Fingers and Toes.— Syndactyly. See Deformities {Fingers, Toes). Weber's Glands. Salivary Glands, Disorders of {Anatomy, Accessory Glands). Weber's Organ.—The sinus pocularis or uterus masculinus of the prostatic portion of the male ui-ethra. Weber's Syndrome or Symp torn. — Paralysis of the oculo-motor nerve on one side and of the limbs and facial and ^^ypog^ossal nerves of the opposite side; it is due to a lesion of the upper region of the pons. Weber's Test. See Ear, Examination of {Hearing, Tuning-Fork Tests); Ear, Middle, Chronic Non-Suppurative Disease {Tuning- Fork Tests). Webs of the Larynx. See Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflammations {Congenital Glottic Stenosis or Webs of the Larynx). Webster's Process.—The electrolysis method of the disposal of sewage. "Weed." — Milk fever or mastitis. See Puerperium, Pathology {Affections of the Mamma, Mastitis). Weeks' Bacillus. — A short slender bacillus found in muco-purulent ophthalmia. See Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Acute Oph- thalmia). W eeping. — Exuding or discharging watery fluid; e.g. weeping sores, weeping eczema, etc. See Eczema {Lesions). Wegner'S Disease.—Syphilitic osteo- chondritis in infants; Wegner's Sign of foetal syphilis consists in the presence of an irregular yellow line crossing a long bone at the junction of the epiphysis and the diaphysis and due to the changes caused by syphilitic osteochondritis. See Pregnancy, Intra-Uterine Diseases {Foetal Syphilis). Weichselbaum's Bacillus.—The diplococcus intracellularis. See Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal {History). Weidel's Reaction. — A test for xanthin bodies; substances containing these bodies, if treated by chlorine water containing nitric acid and then exposed to ammonia vapours, give a red or violet coloration. Weigert'S Stain.—A method of stain- ing fibrin by the use of gentian violet, iodine solution, aniline oil and xylol. See Post-Mortem Methods {Bacteriological Investigations, Stains). Weighing of Infants. See Nursery Hygiene (Weighing Machines and Charts). Weights. See Metric System ; Pre- scribing ; see also Children, Development of {Growth in Weight); Indigestion {Loss of Weight in Dyspepsia); Life Insurance {Height and Weight); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Symptoms, Weight); New-born Infant {Physiological Pecu- liarities) ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Symptomatology). Wei I bach. See Balneology {Germany, Sulphur Waters). Weil's Disease. See Liver, Diseases of ( Weil's Disease or Infective Jamidice). We i I'S Sy n d ro m e. — Hypersesthesia affecting the nerve trunks, muscles and bones of one side of the body; it is sometimes met with in tuberculosis of the lungs. Weir Mitchell's Disease. See Neurasthenia.