154 TUMOURS bourhood of rickety epiphysial cartilages. When multiple, chondromata rarely grow big, but a single chondroma in the head of the tibia or the mesethmoid will sometimes attain formidable proportions. Cartilage tumours may calcify and ossify; frequently they undergo mucoid soften- ing- Ecchondroses.—This is a species of chondroma which occur as small local overgrowths from the edges of articular cartilage, the cartilages of the larynx and the triangular cartilage of the nose. Loose Cartilages.—This species of chondroma appears in the synovial cavity of joints, where they occur as pedunculated bodies hanging from the membrane, or loose in the joint. In many instances they are due to the chondrification of the synovial fringes ; in others they are detached ecchondroses. A joint may contain one loose cartilage and the opposite joint is also occupied by one of similar size and shape. In rare in- stances, two hundred loose bodies have been found in one joint. Perhaps the most extra- ordinary situations in which chondromata arise are the parotid, submaxillary, and lacrimal glands. Here they violate all histological rules. This will be referred to when dealing with sar- comata. Clinical Characters.—The usual situations for these tumours are the bones of the limbs in children and adolescents; they are distinctly circumscribed, and often so hard as to resemble osteomata. When they occur in the skull bones, then the diagnosis is difficult. They are only dangerous to life when they grow in the skull and compress the brain, or in a vertebra and squeeze the spinal cord. Loose bodies in joints impair the utility of the limb and cause pain, but they are easily and safely removed. Osteomata.—These are tumours composed of bone, and may be defined as ossifying chondro- mata, for every growing cancellous osteoma has a cap of hyaline cartilage which has the same relation to it that an epiphysis bears to a long bone. This genus contains two species:—1. Com- pact osteoma. 2. Cancellous osteoma. Compact osteomata are in structure identical with the hard tissue which forms the shaft of a long bone. They grow most commonly from the bones of the skull, especially in the neigh- bourhood of the external auditory meatus, the orbits, and from the angle of the mandible. Cancellous osteomata grow from any bone and resemble the cancellous tissue of bone. They may be pedunculated or sessile. A single osteoma is the rule ; often they occur in pairs and are bilaterally symmetrical. Multiple cartilage-tipped osteomata are occasionally met with in children ; they are congenital, heredi- tary, and fairly symmetrical so far as position is concerned. Clinical Characters.—Osteomata are easily recognised on account of their extreme hardness and in being localised to bones; they rarely cause pain except when growing in the vicinity of, and pressing upon, the trunks of nerves. Osteomata near the external auditory meatus will occasionally induce deafness, and this be- comes serious should the tumours be bilateral. An osteoma growing from the odontoid process has been known to fatally compress the spinal cord, and large osseous tumours of the facial bones will produce hideous deformity and occasionally destroy the eyeball. It is a remarkable fact that occasionally in cases of congenital multiple osteomata, one of the cartilage-covered tumours grows, disseminates, and destroys life like a sarcoma. In clinical as well as in pathological writings care should be taken to keep a wide distinction between the—{a) ossification of tendons; (h) calcification of inflammatory exudations; and (c) the subungual exostosis. These are not true osteomata, but, like cervical ribs, supra- condyloid ridges, and third trochanters, are often loosely classed as osteomata. Odontomata.—These are tumours composed of dental tissues in varying proportions and diff"erent degrees of development, arising from teeth-germs or teeth in the process of growth. This constitutes the most complete genus of tumours, and the various species are determined according to the part of the tooth-germ con- cerned in their formation. Those that arise from the enamel-organ in its early stages are soft and known as epithelial odontomes, whilst those which are known as follicular odontomes are due to aberrations of the follicle when the tooth is completed and ready to erupt. Occasionally the follicle itself becomes con- verted into an encapsuled mass of fibrous tissue, in which a rudimentary or a badly formed tooth is embedded : this is a fibrous odontome and is, in some individuals, associated with rickety changes in the skeleton. When fibrous odon- tome ossify the hard tissue resembles cementum, and the tumour is called a cementoma. Spora- dic dental changes in a fibrous odontome pro- duce very curious results whereby the tumour contains numerous fragments of hard dental tissues—denticles ; such are known as compound follicular odontomes. When the changes affect the roots of teeth after the crown is completed, the tumour is called a radicular odontome, and when it implicates the crown, neck, and roots, and produces an ill-formed lump of cementum, dentine, and enamel intermixed in an irregular way, it is called a composite odontome. Clinical Characters.—The germ of any of the permanent teeth may become converted into an odontome, and occasionally two or more teeth may be involved in the same tumour. They occur with equal frequency in the upper and lower jaws, and the cystic species (follicular odontomes) may occur in multiples and attain