VAGUS The ninth, tenth, and eleventh cranial nerves pass together through the jugular foramen. Function.—The vagus has a very wide distri- bution, supplying muscle, skin, and viscera. It is distributed to the pharynx, larynx, heart and lungs, oesophagus, stomach, and in part to the intestine. A small branch innervates the skin of the external auditory meatus. Lesions.—The nerve may be involved by lesions within the medulla, at the base of the brain, or in its peripheral course outside the cranium. The nuclei, or the intramedullary fibres pro- ceeding from them, may be damaged or destroyed by hsemorrhage, acute inflammatory conditions, softenings due to arterial occlusion, tumours, or chronic degenerative processes. Various affec- tions of the meninges, especially syphilitic meningitis and meningeal hsemorrhage, may damage the nerve trunk in its intracranial course. In this situation the nerve may be pressed on by a tumour, or more rarely by an aneurysm of the vertebral artery. In its peri- pheral course the vagus may be implicated in a tumour, and it is sometimes divided by the surgeon, or included in a ligature when the carotid is tied. A neuritis has been met with after a number of the infective fevers, more especially diphtheria, while alcohol, and, in rare cases, arsenic and lead, may act as the deter- mining factor of the morbid process. The recurrent laryngeal nerve is very fre- quently involved in cases of aneurysm and intrathoracic new growths. Symptoms.—The vagus has a very extensive distribution, and the symptoms produced by a lesion affecting it are necessarily widespread and various. They depend largely upon the site of the lesion. Complete paralysis of the whole trunk is not uncommon where the nerve is involved at the base of the brain. The ninth, twelfth, and upper part of the eleventh nerves are usually involved at the same time in the case of lesions in this situation. Unilateral paralysis of the palate, larynx, and tongue, with difficulty in swallowing, is a typical combination of symptoms produced by such intracranial lesions. Injury to the nerve high up in the neck is often attended with the same symptoms. In such a lesion the tongue escapes, and diffi- culty in swallowing is not usually pronounced. Increase of the pulse-rate is commonly present; the respirations are sometimes increased ; more rarely both the rate of the pulse and respirations are diminished. These cardiac and respiratory symptoms are usually not pronounced unless both nerves have been injured. Pneumonia has occasionally followed division of the vagus. Vomiting, gastric pain, loss of hunger and thirst, which have been observed, are attributed to involvement of the gastric branches. As has been already stated, paralysis of the recurrent laryngeal nerve is frequently met with. This NERVE 415 nerve curves around the arch of the aorta on the left side and the subclavian artery on the right. It supplies the mucous membrane of the larynx below the vocal cords, and all the muscles of the larynx except the crico-thyroid, which is supplied by the superior laryngeal. In consequence of pressure on the nerve, unilateral abductor paralysis is frequently met with. Where this is the case the voice is some- what hoarse, and there is no movement of the corresponding cord on inspiration. There is seldom much dyspnoea. The abductors often become affected at a later date, when the loss of voice may be pronounced. In cases of bilateral abductor palsy the voice is little changed, but inspiration is difficult, and associated with a loud stridor. Bilateral adductor paralysis is common in hysteria. There is an inability to approximate the cords, and, in consequence, a condition of aphonia. When the patient attempts to speak the cords remain in the position of abduction. There is no stridor or dyspnoea. In cases of total bilateral palsy both cords are moderately abducted and motionless, there is complete aphonia, the patient cannot cough, and there is stridor only on deep inspiration. The treatment in cases of paralysis of the vagus nerve must be directed to the cause of the paralysis. Vcll^e'S LclW.—The principle vmderlying the biological test for blood, or Uhlenhuth's test {q.v.). " If an animal. A, be inoculated repeatedly with an albuminoid material from an animal of a different species, B, the blood serum of A acquires the specific property of precipitating in vitro albuminoid fluids derived from animals belonging to the species B " {Da Costa). Valoncia,. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Mediterranean). Va.leilta. Test.—A method of discovering whether butter has had animal or vegetable fat added to it in place of the milk fat; the test consists in heating a mixture of the butter fat and glacial acetic acid (equal parts) to 100° C, and then allowing it to cool. If it be adulterated, opacity begins to appear at a temperature of 96-5° C. ; if pure, not until the temperature has fallen to 61-5^ C. Valentine's Beef-Juice. See Diet {Beef Juices). Valerian. See also Zinc.—The rhizome of Valeriana officinalis {Valerianae Rhizoma) contains a volatile oil, which on decomposition sets free valerianic acid (CjHjqOj) ; the official preparation is the Tinctura Valerianae Ammo- niata (dose, | to 1 fl. dr.) ; valerian acts, by reason of the volatile oil in it, as a carminative and stimulant, and its use in hysterical and nervous maladies (alone or combined with