TONSILS, DISEASES OF 46 2. Fibrotic, in which the enlarged tonsil is mainly composed of fibrous overgrowth. 3. Lymphoid.—This is particularly common in children. In it there is excessive develop- ment of the lymphoid tissue, and such growths are frequently accompanied by adenoid vegeta- tions of the nasopharynx. Hypertrophied tonsils vary in size and shape. They may be so moderately enlarged that unless acutely inflamed they give rise to little trouble : on the other hand they may reach such a size as to almost meet in the middle line and cause great difficulty in breathing. Sometimes they are more or less pedun- culated, or while projecting very little from the fauces they may be enlarged from before back- wards in an irregular lymphoid mass, which below passes imperceptibly into the lingual tonsil. Symptoms.—In children respiratory difficulties and some alteration of the voice are common symptoms. The patient breathes noisily at night, and during the day is liable to choking attacks when taking food. The obstruction to free nasal respiration engenders mouth breath- ing, followed by a lack of development of the facial bones which is indicated by the long, narrow face and laterally contracted nostrils, together with the high arched palate, projecting incisor teeth, and retracted upper lip. The obstructed respiration also tends to the produc- tion of the pigeon-breast deformity, especially in rickety subjects. The voice is usually thick and guttural. Temporary attacks of deafness or other ear symptoms are not uncommon, and in a small number of cases certain reflex phenomena, such as cough, vomiting, epigastric pains, etc., have immediately disappeared on removal of enlarged tonsils. Enlarged cervical glands are frequently present, and no doubt are due to absorption of septic matter from the lacunae and tonsillar surfaces (vide supra " General Considerations "). Probably the listlessness, mental apathy, and unhealthy aspect of many patients with enlarged tonsils, are in part due to absorption of septic matter into the system from the tonsils, as well as to imperfect oxygenation of the blood arising from deficient respiratory movements. It must not be forgotten that many of the above symptoms are often aggravated or partly caused by the co-existence of adenoids or hypertrophic conditions of the nasal and naso- pharyngeal mucosa. Diagnosis.—There can rarely be any difficulty in this, but it may be as well to point out that sudden unilateral enlargement of a tonsil in an adult should arouse suspicions of malignant disease. Treatment.—If the tonsils be so enlarged that they produce any of the aforementioned symptoms, it is the duty of the surgeon to advise their removal, and to discountenance all ineffectual and temporising methods, such as the application of astringent paints, caustics, change of air, etc. This is the more imperative when we remember— {a) That the operation of tonsillotomy is, with certain reservations, practically free from risk. (^>) That a great improvement in the general health almost always results. (c) That evil results are almost sure to follow if enlarged tonsils be allowed to remain untreated. Hypertrophied tonsils may be removed by the following methods :— 1. By means of j the guillotine, e.g. Mackenzie's or Reiner's {see "Morcellement" and "Enuclea- tion," p. 47). 2. By "morcellement," when the shape of the tonsils or other reasons render the first method impossible or inadvisable. 3. Enucleation for reasons similar to those last mentioned. 4. Galvanic cautery or " ignipuncture." 5. Wire ecraseur. The removal of tonsils by means of a bistoury is only mentioned in order to condemn it as slow, painful, often incomplete, and more likely to be followed by haemorrhage than any other method. 1. Guillotine. — Except in young, nervous children, tonsillotomy should be performed without a general anaesthetic. In other cases the painting of the tonsillar surfaces with a 10 per cent solution of cocaine is all that is necessary. When the guillotine is used it will greatly assist the surgeon if an assistant, stand- ing behind the patient, pushes the tonsil in- wards by external pressure applied behind the angle of the jaw. As a general rule, the slight haemorrhage which follows the operation ceases spontaneously in the course of a few moments. The patient should be kept quiet for twenty- four to forty-eight hours, and food should be cold and of a soft consistence. In the case of young children in whom a general anaesthetic is advisable, the writer prefers that the head should hang backwards over the end of the table immediately the operation commences, and that if adenoids be present, their removal should immediately follow that of the tonsils. Hemorrhage after Tonsillotomy.—Apart from cases of haemophilia, profuse haemorrhage follow- ing tonsillotomy is uncommon, but the surgeon must always be prepared to meet it. It is more likely to occur in the fibrotic tonsils met with after twenty years of age than in young children, and its source is usually some branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery. In rare cases a rapid and fatal haemorrhage has resulted from the wounding of an abnormally placed internal carotid artery. The haemorrhage may immedi-