VISCERAL PAIN 473 visceral affections. In Paragraph IX. attention was drawn to the muscular contraction in visceral disease. This may be spoken of as a viscero-muscular reflex, inasmuch as the stimula- tion passes from the affected viscera by the sympathetic to the centre of the muscle nerves in the cord. It is characterised by long-con- continued contractions of the muscles, and is in striking contrast to the short, rapid contrac- tions of the cutaneous muscular reflex. Another peculiarity is that the muscular con- traction due to visceral stimulation does not readily relax under chloroform antesthesia. Thus we may push the anaesthetic till all the other voluntary muscles are relaxed and sensa- tion abolished, and still the visceral-stimulated muscle remains contracted. This is particularly the case with the abdominal muscles, where the rigid recti sometimes interferes with the surgeon's freedom. In a case of stone in the bladder I found the lowest segment of the left rectus muscle firmly contracted and tender on pressure. It remained so during complete anaesthesia and till the bladder was opened (supra-pubic operation). The patient became sick, and the muscles relaxed and did not again contract. A number of causes produce the muscular contraction, as contraction of hollow muscular organs, inflammation of the peritoneum, affec- tions of the parenchyma of organs, etc. When more is known of the exact relationship of the sympathetic nerve supply to the cerebro-spinal nerves, this symptom will be of great diagnostic value. With hypergesthesia of the skin there is also increase in the activity of the muscular reflexes. This is well illustrated in gastric affections with hypersesthesia of the skin of the epigastric region. A slight stroking of the skin here will call forth strong, rapid contraction of the upper portion of the left rectus muscle. Not only is the muscular response abnormally easy to elicit, but it may also be called forth by stimulation of the non-hyperajsthetic skin at a remote distance, as, for instance, by stimulating the skin in the axilla. This would point to the fact that the centres of the muscular nerves are abnormally sensitive to stimulation. XIII. — Sensory Symptoms of Individual Organs. — Before dealing with the sensory symptoms of individual organs, it is necessary to state that it is often impossible to locate with certainty the cause of many pains. It is difficult to tell, for instance, whether any given pain may not arise from affections of the body wall itself. A pain over the lower part of the back may be a referred pain from some internal organ, or it may be due to some rheumatic affection of the muscles, as lumbago. Severe pains in the arm may be of peripheral origin, as in some forms of neuralgia, or they may be due to an affection of the heart. Again, there may be diseases which affect more than one tissue. Thus appendicitis may set in with severe peri- stalsis of the bowel, giving rise to the character- istic cramp-like pains. With extension of the disease a peritonitis may be set up with the characteristic sensory phenomena. Suppuration may follow in the tissues of the abdominal wall, producing pain and other symptoms of a purely local character. There are often indefinite pains which are difficult to locate, particularly as many patients describe the sensations in very vague language. It often happens that the pain is felt in a some- what diffuse fashion. In speaking of the spread of the hypergesthesia, I drew attention to the fact that it spread along districts supplied by portions of nerves whose roots were contiguous, and did not embrace the whole distribution of any one nerve. As visceral pain often occurs without any hypergesthesia being present, we are de- pendent entirely on the patient's description for discovering where the pain is felt. The patient frequently gives a totally wrong de- scription of the site when describing it from memory. But if asked to note carefully the place where the pain is felt during a subsequent attack, much more reliable information can usually be obtained. But even after that there are a great many pains which, in the present state of our knowledge, it is impossible to locate with certainty. In describing the pains and other sensory phenomena associated with visceral disease, it will be better to consider the subject from the standpoint of the tissues affected, rather than from the point of view of the organ as a whole. Certain kinds of tissue give rise to pains that bear a somewhat similar resemblance in char- acter. Those organs containing non-striped muscles present a certain similarity of symptom, while affections of the membranes present a diflferent kind of symptom. For this reason the subject will be considered according as the pains are associated with (a) hollow muscular organs, {b) serous membranes, (c) parenchy- matous tissue. (a) The Hollow Muscular Organs.—In a great number of instances there is a certain resem- blance between the character of the pain in affections of the hollow muscular structures. It has been pointed out in describing the peri- stalsis of the bowel in Paragraph III. that coincident with the contraction of the bowel a pain was felt. The character of the pain was typical. It gradually increased in intensity, reached its height, and gradually subsided. The character and duration of the pain agree with the character and duration of the muscular contraction. The muscle contracts slowly, in- creasing in force till fully contracted, and then gradually relaxes. Such is the character of the pain to be found at times in all hollow muscular organs—the digestive tube, gall-ducts, ureter,