507 VULVA, DISEASES OF THE may be relieved with opium ; and the patient's strength must be supported. IV. Cutaneous Diseases op the Vulva.— The vulva is liable to be affected by a number of cutaneous diseases, of which the most im- portant are erythema, eczema, lichen ruber, tuberculosis, syphilis, condylomata, leukoplakia, elephantiasis, vulvitis pruriginosa, and kraurosis. Erythema is usually a transient condition, but it may assume a more chronic form as the result of irritating discharges and want of cleanliness. In very stout people it may be due to intertrigo, when it becomes worse in hot weather. Treatment consists of rest, clean- liness, and the use of dusting-powders, such as oxide of zinc, calomel or bismuth subnitrate, mixed with starch or talc powder. Eczema presents the same characters as in other parts of the body; the mucous surface is not usually involved, but the cutaneous surface shows the typical papules, which be- come vesicular and break. The escaping serous fluid forms crusts, and the condition is usually aggravated by scratching, which is almost un- avoidable owing to the intense irritation. It may be associated with constitutional conditions, such as rheumatism, gout, and diabetes; in other cases it is kept up, if not caused, by irritating discharges from the uterus, or by leakage of urine, as from weakness of the bladder-sphincter or a vesico-vaginal fistula. Treatment. — Any constitutional or local causes that may be present should be treated. The importance of avoiding scratching should be insisted upon. In the dry forms a lotion of 2 per cent formalin will be found useful, followed by an ointment such as hydrargyrum ammoniatum 1 part in 32 parts of lanolin. In moist forms the crusts should be removed with a strong potash soap, and a dusting powder applied, composed of glutol, 1 part, and talc powder, 7 parts. Herpes resembles eczema, save that the vesicles are smaller and grouped together. It is apt to come on during pregnancy and at the menstrual periods, and usually runs a short course, if not aggravated by scratching. Local treatment should be carried out on the same lines as for eczema. Lichen ruber occasionally attacks the vulva ; in the course of disappearance it is apt to simulate kraurosis. It usually yields readily to the exhibition of arsenic internally. Tuberculosis is very rare, and is somewhat difficult to distinguish from syphilitic nodules or ulceration. It may appear in the form of lupus, resembling that seen on the face, in which case it presents one of two forms, being mainly ulcerative or mainly hypertrophic and " tubercular." Histologically such an ulcer is composed of characteristic tubercular granu- lations, while typical tubercles are scattered through the deeper tissues. Tubercle bacilli may be demonstrated therein. The best treat- ment is to excise the affected parts. Syphilis is seen either as a primary sore or chancre, or as mucous plaques and tubercles. In the later stages a condition of leukoplakia may be seen; but it is important to remember that a typical leukoplakia may occur on the vulva quite independently of syphilis, and it may then be the precursor of epithelioma. Condylomata of the vulva are sometimes syphilitic; but they are also, and indeed more frequently, seen in cases of gonorrhoea where there is no evidence of syphilitic infection. They appear as raised patches with a flattened surface on which red points appear, which may merge into ulcerated patches. The whole vulva may be covered with condylomata, and they may extend backwards and surround the anus. The surface of the vulva is bathed in a muco-purulent discharge. The patient com- plains of great pain and soreness, which is bad when walking, and which may be even worse when sitting down. This condition yields very rapidly to proper treatment, of which the first and most important principle is cleanliness. Rest should be enjoined as far as possible. The local treatment which we have found the most satisfactory is bathing the vulva several times a day with lotio nigra, and vaginal douching with 1 in 2000 of biniodide of mer- cury ; this is followed by the application of mercurial ointment, and mercuric iodide is ad- ministered internally. Elephantiasis. — This condition is due to chronic inflammation of the lymphatics, with dilatation of their canals, leading to hypertrophy of the cutaneous structures, and a thickened rugose condition of the surface. In the more advanced stages thrombosis occurs in the lymphatic vessels, and later still the glands are affected. The parts principally involved are the labia majora; less frequently the cli- toris and labia minora; whilst the affection may spread to the perineum and adjacent parts of the thighs. It is but rarely seen in temperate climates ; in the tropics it is more common, and the negro races are the principal sufferers. From rubbing against the thighs and clothes, superficial ulceration is apt to occur. The only effectual treatment is the removal of the mass or masses. Vulvitis pruriginosa is a dermatitis of the vulva in which the nerve-endings are largely involved, with the result that intense irritation occurs. The skin of the affected parts is red and hot at first; later the surface may become paler and the epithelium appears thickened and sodden ; usually marks of scratching are seen. It would appear that in some cases this condition is the precursor of kraurosis. The cause of it is not clear; it is probably due generally to trophic nerve-disturbances. It is doubtful whether it can be brought on by the I