522 WATER for 24 hours. Should a iiniform turbidity be prodviced examine in the hanging drop, and if the organism is a motile bacillus : (a) stain the flagella by van Ermengen's method ; (b) make a shake gelatine culture for formation of gas bubbles ; (c) inoculate a broth tube for indol reaction; (d) inoculate litmus milk for pro- duction of acid and coagulation of casein. 3. Examination for the Spores of Bacillus Enteritidis Sporogenes.—Pass 250 or 500 c.c. of the water through a very small Pasteur filter, and brush the residue into 10 c.c. of sterile milk. Place the tube in a water bath, and keep at 80° C. for 15 minutes. Pour about 2 grams of melted vaseline over the surface of the milk and cool. The vaseline effectually excludes the air, and if the milk be now placed in an incubator for 24 to 48 hours, any spores of the bacillus present will ger- minate, and the presence of the organism be revealed by the coagulation of the casein in torn irregular masses, having the faintest pos- sible pink tint and the evolution of gas which forces up the vaseline plug. Upon removal of this plug the gas will be found to be in- flammable and the liquid has a strong odour of butyric acid. Interpretation of Analytical Results.—A fil- tered water which contains more than 100 organisms per cubic centimetre capable of growing on nutrient jelly is not efficiently purified, but it must be remembered that this enumeration is of little value unless the water is examined immediately after it leaves the filter beds. The harmless bacteria found in water multiply rapidly, hence a water may contain 1000 or more organisms per c.c. and yet be perfectly wholesome. If, however, both the B. coli communis and the B. enteritidis sporogenes are found to be present there can be no doubt that the water is polluted and unfit for domestic purposes. A water with a greenish or yellowish tint is generally contaminated, but it may be merely with a trace of vegetable matter. A brownish tint usually indicates "peat," and this, unless very excessive in amount, is quite harmless. A pure water should be practically colourless and free from any appearance of turbidity when viewed in a column six inches in depth. A peaty water may have a faint odour, but an odour from any other cause renders the water suspicious. All waters contain chlorides, hence the chlorine determination has no great value. No infer- ence can be drawn as to sewage contamination from the amount of chlorides present unless the analyst knows how much is contained in water of known purity from the same source. Sewage contains chloride of sodium (found in the urine), but considerable pollution must take place before it is recognisable by its effect upon the chlorides. Near the sea or tidal rivers the subsoil may be infiltrated with salt, and waters therefrom be rendered brackish. If the salt, however, is not in such quantity as to be appreciable to the taste it is harmless. Sewage undergoing decomposition usually contains nitrites, whereas pure waters, save under very exceptional circumstances, are free therefrom ; hence the presence of nitrites always indicates the necessity for careful inquiry as to their source. Nitrates, on the other hand, are the final products of the decomposition of sewage or manure by the micro-organisms in the soil, and indicate the nature of the ground from which the water is collected. Some analysts ignore the presence or absence of nitrates, others lay great stress on the amount present. Nitrates are perfectly harmless in themselves, but they indicate that the subsoil is more or less highly manured, and therefore that pollution may occur vmless the well or spring is sufficiently far from the polluting matter, and the soil is sufficiently compact and " live " to be depended upon to effect complete oxidation and filtration. When the water contains an abundance of nitrates and decided traces of organic matter it should be unhesitatingly condemned. The nitrates are usually expressed in terms of nitric nitrogen, 1 part of which corresponds to 4^ parts of nitric acid, or about 6 parts of such nitrates as usually exist in drinking waters. No possible standard can be fixed, but even in agricidtural districts, where the subsoil is porous and the soil highly manured, the presence of much over 1 grain of nitric nitrogen per gallon should render the water suspicious. The hardness of water is usually expressed in degrees, each degree corresponding to the soap- destroying power of one grain of calcium car- bonate in one gallon of water. When the soap- destroying power is under 10° the water may be considered soft, or moderately soft; from 10° to 15° it is moderately hard; 15° to 20°, hard; and over 20°, very hard or excessively hai'd. An excessively hard water is not suitable for most domestic purposes. A water from which much of the hardness can be removed by boiling is preferable to a permanently hard water. The organic matter in a water cannot he accurately determined, and such a determination is rarely attempted. Other estimations are made which serve as indices of the amount of organic matter present, and at the same time give sonie indications of its character. Sewage and manurial matters yield much free ammonia on distillation, and after this has been distilled off" a further quantity of ammonia can be ob- tained by the action of a strongly alkaline solution of potassium permanganate on the albuminous matters. This is called "organic" or "albuminoid" ammonia. Further, these impurities absorb considerable amounts of oxy- gen from acid solution of potassium perman- I ganate solution, called "oxygen absorbed."