102 TRANSFUSION Methods of Transfusion of Blood.—(1) Immediate Transfusion.—In this method pure blood is passed directly from the blood-giver to the patient by means of some form of syringe, the instruments of Roussel and Aveling being those most widely known. Immediate trans- fusion need not be described; it need only be mentioned to be condemned. The risk of in- troducing clots is very great, while the difficulty of preventing the admission of air and sepsis is considerable. (2) Mediate Transfusion.—Here the blood is defibrinated before injection. The blood being caught in a sterilised vessel standing in hot water (at a temperature of about 105° to 110° F.) is thoroughly defibrinated by whip- ping, and is then strained through fine muslin into a second warmed vessel; thence it is drawn up into a clean warmed glass syringe, and slowly injected through a short glass and rubber nozzle into the patient's vein. In this method one disadvantage is, that a large quantity of blood is required, a good deal being wasted in the whipping process. (3) Transfusion of Blood with Phosphate of Soda Solution.—As this method is by far the safest and most satisfactory, it will be described a little more fully. The health of the blood-giver, who should not be beyond young adult life, must be beyond suspicion. In patients who have suffered from ansemia for some time, the veins are often much dim- inished in calibre, so much so that, for example, the median basilic vein may scarcely admit an ordinary probe. In such cases it may be necessary to select some larger vein, such as the saphena, in order to introduce even a fine glass nozzle. The parts concerned, both in blood-giver and in patient, must be carefully sterilised, and the operation performed aseptically. A suitable vein having been selected in the patient, it is exposed and two catgut ligatures passed beneath it. The distal ligature is then definitively tied, but the ends are not cut off yet, as they are useful to lift the vein and steady it when opening into its lumen subsequently. The blood-giver is next bled to the extent of from 4 to 6 ounces, in such a way that the blood may fall neatly into a vessel containing the phosphate of soda solution. This solution is of the strength of 1 to 20. One part of such solution must be mixed with three parts of blood in order to delay coagula- tion. If the blood appears unusually rich, a rather larger percentage of solution may be advisable. Two ounces of phosphate solution should be warmed to 105° F., and poured into a flat graduated glass vessel, which should be float- ing in another basin containing hot boric solution. The blood-giver is bled direct into the vessel containing the phosphate solution, and the mixture is gently stirred with a glass rod. When the necessary amount of blood (about 6 ounces) has been obtained, an assistant at- tends to the blood-giver's arm, while the operator now opens the patient's vein, which he had previously exposed, and inserts a small glass nozzle, 1^ inches long, having 1 inch of india-rubber tubing attached to its end. This nozzle must be filled with phosphate solution, and clamped before introduction into the vein, or else air may be admitted. The nozzle is fixed temporarily in place by the first half of a "surgeon's knot," made on the proximal piece of catgut originally passed under the vein. A large glass syringe is now filled with the blood and phosphate solution, and this must be kept warm by wrapping the syringe round with lint wrung out of hot boric lotion. The mixture is then injected into the patient, and great care must be taken (1) to inject very slowly—ten minutes may be taken to empty the 8-ounce syringe ; (2) to stop immediately there are any signs of distress, such as dyspnoea or discomfort about the heart: (the pulse should be con- tinually watched). When the whole of the 8 ounces, or as much as the patient can comfortably take, has been injected, the nozzle is withdrawn, the second half of the knot tied, a couple of stitches put in, and the wound dressed in the usual way. In cases of pernicious anaemia this operation may have to be repeated several times at in- tervals varying from two to six weeks, according to the patient's progress. It has been fre- quently noted that improvement, as tested by frequent enumeration of the corpuscles, con- tinues progressively for some weeks and then halts. It is advisable to operate again when this takes place, the patient in favourable cases being left on a better level as regards his blood after each transfusion, until, after several injec- tions, a normal condition of matters may be reached. Transfusion of hlood into the arteries has been used by Hueter, the object being to avoid the introduction of clots into the heart. As this danger can be avoided by the use of the phos- phate of soda method, and as gangrene of the part supplied by the artery employed for the purpose may occur from embolism, the method need not be further discussed. (4) Injection of Saline Fluids. —This procedure has been used with great success after severe heemorrhage, and in cases of profound shock. It is recommended to be used before or after severe abdominal operations, and has also occa- sionally been employed in septicaemia, diabetic coma, and post-operative suppression of urine. It is perfectly useless in pernicious ansemia, except as a temporary stimulant.