61 TOXICOLOGY to absolute blindness which may be permanent. Not unfrequently some improvement of vision takes place even in the worst cases. When lead is taken into the system for pro- longed periods it tends to cause chronic neph- ritis, probably in the first instance of the parenchymatous variety, but leading eventually to interstitial nephritis with the formation of the granular kidney. As a result albumin will be present in the urine, but probably not until the system has been under the influence of lead for some time. The relation borne by granular kidney to lead on the one hand and to gout on the other has long been observed. There is no doubt that individuals with a gouty tendency succumb readily to the influence of lead, and that in such subjects gout is developed by the lead, but whether chronic lead poisoning can determine gout apart from the presence of a gouty diathesis is doubtful. Pregnant women usually abort when under the influence of lead —a fact so well known in some districts as to cause certain preparations of lead, e.g. diachylon- plaster, to be regarded as ecbolics. Treatment.—The patient should be removed from the influence of lead and any special symp- toms combated, colic and arthralgia by opium, paralysis by local massage and electricity, with rest. Potassium iodide is iisually given, but with doubtful efficacy. Elimination is best pro- moted by fresh air, hot baths, general massage, moderate purgation, and a judicious amount of exercise. Tests. — Sulphuretted hydrogen produces a brown or a black precipitate with lead salts. Potassium iodide gives a yellow precipitate which dissolves on boiling and crystallises, on cooling, in gold - coloured scales. Potassium chromate gives a yellow precipitate, and sul- phuric acid a white precipitate. Copper.—Metallic copper is but slightly, if at all, poisonous; copper coins, accidentally swallowed, have remained in the digestive tract for six and nine months without causing any symptoms of poisoning. The salts of copper by which acute poisoning is produced are the sulphate and the acetate. Symptoms. — Immediately on swallowing a poisonous dose of one of the above salts a metallic astringent taste is experienced, followed, after a short interval, by pain in the stomach and abdomen, by vomiting and purging, and by collapse. The early vomit is green or blue, and probably the inside of the mouth and lips are tinted blue. The distinction between vomit coloured by a copper salt and by bile is deter- mined by the addition of a little ammonia water : the coppery vomit is turned a deep blue, whilst the bilious vomit is unaltered in colour. Pain in the head often occurs, and occasionally con- vulsions. Jaundice has been observed. Treatmeibt.—Vomiting usually occurs spon- taneously, and may be promoted by draughts of warm water ; if no vomiting occurs the stomach- tube should be used. White of egg, barley water, thin arrowroot and milk should after- wards be given. Fatal Dose.—Not known. One ounce each of the sulphate and of the acetate have severally proved fatal. Death may occur in a few hours, but is more usually delayed for several days. Post-mortem Appearances.—Those of an irri- tant poison, with possibly bluish or greenish coloration of gasti'o-intestinal mucous membrane, which may be distinguished from bile-staining by the addition of ammonia water. The liver may show fatty changes. Chronic Copper Poisoning. — Although the introduction of repeated minute doses of copper salts into the system does not produce symptoms of poisoning comparable with those produced by like doses of lead, it must not be assumed that repeated small doses of copper are innocuous. It is stated that workers in copper, even those engaged in the manufacture of verdigris, never suff'er from chronic copper poisoning. Some observers, however, report cases which occurred in copper workers, that support the view held by Filehne and others—founded on experiments on animals—as to the resemblance between the toxic effects of copper and those of the other heavy metals. Chronic copper poisoning is mostly discussed in relation to the presence of salts of the metal in food; the contamination may be accidental, or it may be intentional. Acci- dentally, copper finds its way into food through the use of unclean brass cooking utensils ; the copper boilers and hot-water cylinders in general use are also sources of contamination. Copper salts are purposely added to certain foods and condiments to improve their appearance ; green- peas and some kinds of pickles are frequently thus treated. The law does not specially pro- hibit the addition of copper to aliments, it merely forbids the addition of any material which renders food injurious to health, and leaves it to the court before which the case is tried to decide what is, and what is not, in- jurious to health. This allows great latitude of opinion among expert witnesses, especially as it is difficult to obtain direct evidence of the toxic action of small doses of copper. Tests.—Potassium ferrocyanide gives a choco- late-coloured precipitate, and ammonia water an azure blue colour with a solution of a copper salt. A piece of bright iron wire, or a steel needle, placed in a solution of a copper salt which has a slightly acid reaction, becomes coated by a film of metallic copper, the reaction being aided by heat. The wire, subsequently placed in a few drops of ammonia water, imparts a blue tint to the liquid. Silver.—Acute poisoning by a salt of silver is very rare, most of the recorded cases being due to the accidental swallowing of a piece of lunar caustic whilst it was being used to