361 UTERUS, NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE reached, the bulk of the tumour should be reduced by morcellation, using strong toothed forceps and scissors curved on the flat, until finally the stalk is reached. In cases in which the polypus is not yet extruded it may be neces- sary to dilate the cervix uteri, or to make bilateral incisions in it so as to bring the lower pole of the polypus within reach. In no case should the ecraseur be used, as it has a tendency during tightening the wire loops to grasp a portion of the uterine wall, which would thus be seriously injured. Enucleation of Submucous Fibroids — This operation has a very limited range, and is never advisable unless the tumour is apparently single, and so projects into the uterine cavity as to make its enucleation at one sitting a probable result. We have properly abandoned the dangerous practice of incising the mucous mem- brane and the capsule, and then waiting for the uterus to expel the tumour, assisted when necessary by traction and drugs. This method causes the devitalisation of the tumour, and often leads to suppuration within the capsule, and to sloughing of the tumour which may extend to the surrounding tissues. In these cases the products of decomposition are carried by the uterine lymphatics into the general circulation, and septic infection is the result. The operation is so uncertain and so dangerous that even were the mortality of hysterectomy and myomectomy double what they are it would still be condemned. Morcellation of fibroids and their removal per vaginam has long been practised in America, but it has been chiefly brought before the profession by Pean and his pupils. He thought it a suitable operation for the removal of even the largest tumours, but it frequently fails in such cases, and then total hysterectomy has to be performed by a tired surgeon on an exhausted patient. Morcellation should be limited to cases in which the tumour is whollj'^ uterine and does not extend into the broad ligaments ; where the total mass does not exceed that of a five months' gestation; where the vagina is wide enough to permit of the necessary manipula- tions ; and, finally, where the tumour is healthy. Method.—The patient lies in the lithotomy position. After thorough cleansing of the vulva and vagina, Auvard's speculum is introduced and the uterus lowered by pressure from above and, if necessary, by seizing one or both lips with forceps whose grip depends on apposition and not on teeth. The cervix is then freed from its vaginal attachments and incised up to the lower pole of the tumour, so as to make two lips up to its level. Two pairs of Museux toothed forceps are then fixed on the tumour, and with scissors curved on the flat, or with a bistoury curved on the flat, the mass of tissue commanded by the lower forceps is removed. The forceps are reapplied higher on the tumour, and the process repeated as often as is necessary. A finger in the uterus and the other hand on the abdomen give information as to progress, and warning as to possible opening through into the peritoneal cavity. Sometimes the upper part of the tumour may be shelled out with little difficulty—a large, ragged, and sometimes bleed- ing cavity is left; hfemorrhage must be arrested by the application of long pressure forceps, and both it and sepsis prevented by irrigation with 2 per cent carbolic lotion or iodine water, or a solution of formalin, 1 per cent, at a tempera- ture of 110° to 120° F. Gauze soaked in 5 per cent solution of adrenalin chloride is extremely effectual in stopping haemorrhage. The cavity is then packed with strips of iodoform gauze. Shock, if present, is met with the usual remedies, and the patient put to bed. This method ap- pears to work well if the limits as to size and condition of the tumour are observed. It has the advantage of leaving a functionally useful uterus : but it must fail in the following cases : when there are many separate fibroids scattered throughout the uterus, when they invade the broad ligaments, when the size of the tumour is excessive, and, above all, when suppuration, necrosis, sloughing, or other destructive changes have occurred. The risk of sepsis is then very great. Vaginal hysterectomy, described under " Uterus, Malignant Tumours," at p. 375, is of service in tumours that are not too large to admit of extraction of uterus and tumour through the vagina. It is the operation of election in multiple fibroids of the uterus, ex- clusive of the subperitoneal variety, when the size is not excessive, when the broad ligaments are not invaded, when the tumours, so far as can be ascertained, are healthy, and when there is no known pelvic complications of an inflam- matory or septic nature. The process of morcellation as described above can be combined with the classical operation of vaginal hysterectomy, and the uterus so reduced in bulk can be removed, leaving behind no ragged cavity to start a septic infection. Colpotomy, or incision through the vaginal roof, in order to reach and remove " fibroids" has a very limited range ; it can only be useful in cases of subserous growths, and comes into competition with vaginal hysterectomy on the one hand and with operations per abdomen on the other. It also has the disadvantage of affording imperfect demonstration of, and access to, coexisting disease such as pyosalpinx. Abdominal Operations for Fibroids 1. Abdominal hysterectomy {see p. 374). 2. Abdominal myomectomy, the removal of the fibroids alone through an abdominal incision. This is the operation of election in cases where there is one tumour or a few tumours too large for removal per vaginam, where the growth is