TONGUE 33 less yellow margin. The fusion and intersecting of these variegated rings give to the tongue a peculiar appearance, which, on account of its resemblance to the markings on a map, has led to the term "geographical tongue" being applied to it. There are seldom any subjective symptoms. The exact nature of the disease is as yet undetermined. It runs a very slow course, and is but little amenable to any form of treatment, local or constitutional. Dyspeptic Tongue.—In certain cases of dys- pepsia, particularly of gouty origin, the tongue becomes red, raw, and excoriated, and the superficial layers are the seat of a chronic inflam- mation. The epidermis is destroyed in patches, and the bare surfaces are tender when touched, or when hot or irritating food comes in con- tact with them. The relief of the dyspepsia is speedily followed by recovery of the tongue condition. Leukoplakia or Leukokeratosis.—By far the most important form of chronic superficial glossitis is that known as leukoplakia or leuko- keratosis. Much of its clinical importance lies in the fact that it is frequently followed by the development of epithelioma in the tongue. The disease consists in an overgrowth of the horny layer of the epithelium covering the organ, with disappearance of the normal papillae, whereby smooth, bluish white patches are formed on the dorsum of the tongue. The submucous tissue is infiltrated with leucocytes. The white patches, which are best seen when the tongue is dried, have the appearance of being covered by a thin pellicle, which is soft and pliable and firmly adherent to the surface. The disease is almost invariably met with in males, and may occur at any age between twenty and sixty. Gout, rheumatism, and syphilis appear to be predisposing factors, and any form of irritation—for example, the chewing or smoking of tobacco, the drinking of raw spirits, the friction of a rough tooth or an ill-fitting tooth-plate — tends to produce the condition. The milder forms give rise to no discomfort, but when the condition is advanced the patient complains of dryness and hardness of the tongue, with impairment of the sense of taste, and in some cases persistent thirst. If the hygiene of the mouth be neglected cracks and fissures may develop, and the patient has then pain on taking- hot or spiced food. Unfortunately treatment is of little avail in most cases, and the condition, even if it dis- appears for a time, is very liable to recur. Eventually an epitheliomatous tumour may develop in relation to one of the patches or cracks. The tumour may take the form of a nodule in the substance of the tongue, or of a wart or ulcer on its surface. All sources of irritation, such as chewing- tobacco or smoking, should be removed, and an VOL. X antiseptic mouth wash used regularly. Alkaline washes, such as a solution of bicarbonate of soda, chlorate of potash, or borax, are particularly useful. Butlin highly recommends the applica- tion of ointments, for example, vaseline, lanoline, or cold cream, with eucalyptus, borax, or some other mild antiseptic added. The tongue is first dried, and then covered with the ointment, which the patient rubs into the part by rolling the tongue against the roof of the mouth. This should be repeated night and morning. The application of salicylic or lactic acid may be useful in removing the excess of epithelium. Caustics are to be rigorously avoided, as they only cause irritation, and so tend to favour the development of epithelioma. Constitutional treatment has little or no effect on the leuko- plakia, even if the patient is syphilitic. Patients suffering from leukoplakia should be kept under observation for long periods, with a view to the early recognition of malignant disease should it supervene. The '■^ smoker's patch" is the name applied to a small, oval area on the dorsum of the tongue, from which the papillae have been removed as a result of excessive smoking. The patch is slightly raised, smooth, and red, and may be covered with a yellowish brown or yellowish white crust. It causes no pain or discomfort unless the crust is removed, and the raw sensi- tive surface exposed. If the patient persists in smoking the condition may spread all over the tongue and mucous membrane of the cheeks, and may assume the characters of leukoplakia. The treatment consists in stopping smoking, painting the patches with chromic acid, tannic acid, or alum, and using an alkaline mouth wash. As a result of chronic superficial glossitis the whole tongue may become perfectly smooth from loss of its papillae {^'■smooth tongue"), or cracks and fissures of various kinds may appear on its surface. Eruptions, comparable to those met with on the skin, in herpes, lichen, eczema, or psoriasis, are also met with on the tongue. Tuberculous Disease.—The tongue is very rarely the primary seat of tuberculosis. In the great majority of cases in which it is affected the patient suffers from advanced pulmonary or laryngeal phthisis, and the tongue is infected by bacilli from the sputum entering some crack or fissure produced—for example, by a ragged tooth. Less frequently the disease spreads by direct continuity of tissue from a patch of lupus on the face or nose. Clinically the condition may be met with either as a tubercle nodule in the substance of the tongue, or as an ulcer. In the nodular form a lump, seldom larger than a hazel nut, appears on the side or tip of the tongue. At first this swelling has a thin covering of epithelium, and is firm and painless. In course of time, however, caseation takes place, the nodule softens, the epithelium gives 3