435 VENTILATION AND WARMING exceed 0-6 parts per 1000. This is done by the admission of 2000 cubic feet of normal air per hour. The man thus is provided with 1000 + 2000, or 3000 cubic feet of air per hour The amount of CO2 in cubic feet will then be as under:— (0-4x3) + (0-6) II II =1"^ P^^t^ 2000 Normal CO.j CO2 contributed ~ cubic feet, or 0'6 in air per by respiration. in 1000 cubic feet. 1000 vols. This standard—0'6 per 1000—is aimed at in dwelling-houses, etc., but in practice it is rarely attainable. Nor, except in prisons, hospitals, and the like, where a patient is entirely con- fined for long periods, is it necessary for health. Temporary exposure to such polluted air is not injurious; but repeated exposure for prolonged periods is extremely injurious to sick and healthy alike. Probably, CO.^ by itself is not, in the above quantities, very deleterious; but it is the only easily tested impurity, and is thus the best index. The disagreement among physiologists as to its poisonousness relatively to the exhaled organic matter and aqueous vapour does not affect its value as a practical test. The " close" smell of over-occupied or over-crowded rooms is probably due to organic effluvia from breath, mucous membranes, or skin; the concentration of CO^ is an index of the concentration of other impurities. Third, Environmental Pollutions — Coal-gas, Oil, etc.—(a) Coal-gas.—One cubic foot of gas when consumed is equivalent in polluting effect (in times of COg) to one adult person. Each gas- burner in common domestic use consumes from 4 to 5 cubic feet per hour, and is therefore equivalent to 4 or 5 adults. Three ordinary gas-lights in a room are equivalent to the presence of 12 to 15 additional people. If the products of combustion mix with the room-air, —the commonest case,—then, in order to keep the CO2 down to respirable limits, 1800 cubic feet of fresh air per hour must be supplied for each cubic foot of gas burned. This is approxi- mately the same amount as that required for an adult breathing in a room of 1000 cubic feet. Put otherwise, one person requires 3000 cubic feet of air per hour ; 1 cubic foot of gas burnt requires 1800 cubic feet of air; 5 cubic feet require 9000 cubic feet. Coal-gas, unconsumed, is poisonous; minute escapes are very dangerous. The ingredients of unburnt coal-gas are, methane (CH^) or marsh-gas, ethylene (CgH^) or olefiant- gas, acetylene (CgHg), hydrogen, carbon mon- oxide, nitrogen, vapours of volatile liquid hydro- carbons, and vapour of carbon bisulphide. Of these, all, except hydrogen, nitrogen, and the hydrocarbon vapours, are in various degrees poisonous. When burnt, coal-gas yields also CO2 and sulphur dioxide. Consequently, coal- gas, burnt or unburnt, is always an impurity in the air of a room. (6) Gas-stoves.—Gas-stoves are simply large gas-burners (usually Bunsen-burners). They may burn from 5 to 40 or more cubic feet per hour, producing corresponding pollution. To prevent this, flues are absolutely necessary. The "condensing" gas-stoves are said not to pollute the air ; but carbon dioxide—one of the chief products of combustion—is not removed in the liquid due to condensation. Nor can combustion proceed without oxygen. Conse- quently, the condensing stove does not collect all the impurities and does abstract the oxygen. (c) Paraffin Oil.—According to Notter and Firth, 1 lb. of paraffin oil requires 138 cubic feet of air for complete combustion, and in polluting effect is equivalent to 15 cubic feet of coal-gas. An ordinary oil-lamp requires as much air as a gas-jet burning 4 or 5 cubic feet of gas per hour. {d) Candles.—One candle requires 150 cubic feet of air per hour if the air is to be kept sufficiently pure. (e) Stoves.—Closed coal-stoves are liable, especially when over-heated, to emit carbon- monoxide—which is extremely fatal. Charcoal- stoves have the same effect. (/) Drain-air.—Drain-air, or sewer-air, may sometimes find access to the occupied rooms. Such air may contain hydrogen sulphide, am- monium sulphide, carbonic acid, and foetid or- ganic vapours. {h) Z)ttsi. —Dust is always a pollution, but cannot always be eliminated ; the very fine dust never can be. The grosser dust, which may consist of illimitable varieties of filth from sinks, water-closets, skin, unclean utensils, unwashed clothes, over-used blankets, befouled floors, floor-deafening, dirty carpets, epithelial scales, voided mucus, bacteria, etc., can be effectually rendered, at least temporarily, harmless by wet-cleaning or spraying. Fourth, Standard of Air^urity ; and Quantity of Air necessary to maintain it.—Cubic Space. —The standard of air-purity aimed at varies with the nature of the premises to be ventilated. The physiological ideal is: a maximum of 6 volumes of COg per 10,000 volumes of air, that is, 2 volumes above the 3-5 to 4 volumes existing in average air. But this standard cannot be maintained except where the air supplied con- stantly amounts to 3000 cubic feet per head per hour, or where the COj, with the other im- purities, is directly removed before it diffuses into the air of the room. Now the ordinary methods of ventilation rarely secure 3000 cubic feet of air per head per hour, either in a private dwelling-house or in work premises. Without a specially adjusted system of ventilation, it is not possible to provide this amount of air, or to diffuse it uniformly through the occupied premises. Hence, in practice, a compromise has to be made between the temporary ill- effects of air polluted beyond the 6 parts of CO2