UTERUS, DISPLACEMENTS OF THE 334 middle part the whole width of the vagina is rawed. The wound is brought together by a continuous catgut suture; the result is a great constriction of the lumen of the vagina. A similar procedure may be practised in the posterior vaginal wall. Bilateral colporrhapliy is one of the best methods of narrowing the vagina. In this operation a strip of mucous membrane is re- moved from the sides of the anterior and the posterior vaginal walls throughout the entire length of the vagina (Fig. 4), (fig. 594, p. 460, Montgomery's Gynaecology). The fixation of the parts is more permanent after this than after any of the operations already mentioned. It has ,the advantage that the narrowing can be made to any degree desired. Restoration of the Perineiom.— When the Tear does not extend into the Rectum.—The integrity FlO. 4.—Bilateral colporrhapliy. of the perineum can be satisfactorily restored by a simple flap-splitting operation. The lower part of the posterior vaginal wall and the lateral margins of the vulva can be raised up in the form of a flap by simply carrying the knife or scissors underneath the parts mentioned and dissecting up the flap. A large rawed surface is produced which is brought together by a continuous catgut suture in such a manner that the whole of the rawed surface is brought into apposition, and the edges of the vulva meet in the middle line. The suture is introduced in the deepest part of the wound, and is carried upwards to the upper extremity of the wound, and then downwards alternately until the skin edge is reached This method rolls the tissues up into the form of a thickened pad. When the Tear has extended into the Rectum and the External Sphincter Muscle is divided and retracted.—One of the best operations for the repair of this condition is one devised by Kelly, and is a flap-splitting method with the addition that the ends of the divided sphincter muscle are sought out, and by stitching are restored to normal shape and position (Fig. 5). The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and after the field of operation has been thoroughly cleansed a plug of gauze is inserted into the rectum with a string attached to prevent the escape of f{ecal matter during the operation. The assistants then stretch the recto-vaginal septum by placing a finger on the buttock im- mediately opposite each extremity of the septum. The operator then with the knife or scissors carefully separates the posterior vaginal wall from the anterior i-ectal wall to the extent of about one inch, taking care to avoid button- FIQ. 5.—Restoration of the perineum when the rectum has been torn and the external sphincter muscle divided (Kelly). holing. Then the knife or scissors is inserted at the extremity of the wound with which the operation was begun, and carried under the skin upwards along the margins of the vulva as far as the base of the nymphte. Forceps are placed on the cut edges, and the flap is dissected upwards to the necessary extent. The operator then carries two incisions downward and back- wards directly over the retracted ends of the sphincter, which can always be felt between the finger and thumb, and there is seen always a slight dimple on the skin at the retracted end. The ends of the sphincter are now carefully dissected out, and seized with forceps which pull them into their original position and hold them there while the operator stitches them together with catgut. It is usual to put in three stitches. It is advisable to insert at this stage a silk-worm gut suture from the cut edge