328 UTERUS, DISPLACEMENTS OF THE portion of the cervix the part of the uterus which is least movable. Above, the body of the uterus is comparatively free, while below, the vaginal portion is entirely unattached, con- sequently the upper segment of the cervix uteri becomes the axis of rotation of its antero-pos- terior movements. It may also be called the point of suspension of the uterus, because if any ligaments are concerned in the support of that organ these are the utero-sacral. The attachments of the body are loose. The round ligaments are " attached to the upper angles of the uterus on either side immediately in front of the Fallopian tube. From this point each ligament proceeds upwards and forwards to gain the inguinal ring; and after having passed, like the spermatic cord in the male, through the inguhial canal, reaches the fore part of the pubic symphysis, where its fibres expand and become united with the substance of the mons venei-is. Besides areolar tissue and vessels, the round ligaments contain plain muscular fibres like those of the uterus, from which, indeed, they are prolonged" (Quain). They thus permit of an antero-posterior range practically from pubes to sacrum. The folds of peritoneum, which form the broad ligaments, pass outwards and backwards to the sides of the pelvis in front of the sacro- iliac joint; they permit the body of the uterus to be moved from one side of the pelvic inlet to the other. Normal Movements and Positions of the Uterus. —The position which the uterus occupies de- pends chiefly on the amount of distension of the bladder and rectum for the time being. When the bladder is distended the uterus is pushed into retroposition or retroversion. When the rectum is distended and the bladder is empty the uterus becomes anteposed. When bladder and rectum are both distended, the uterus is elevated. The uterus also moves up- wards and downwards with every respiration. These displacements may be considered normal, because they are temporary and due to physio- logical acts. Strictly speaking, the uterus has no fixed normal position, but the position which it takes up when the bladder and rectum are empty may, for gyntecological purposes, be con- sidered the normal one, as these organs are emptied before an examination is made; then the uterus is anteverted, placed as far forward as the bladder will allow, turned a little to the right, and, when the woman stands erect, is nearly horizontal, being perpendicular to the long axis of the vagina. The fundus is in the plane of the pelvic brim. When the woman is erect and the uterus is in this position all its ligaments, with the exception of the utero-sacral, have their origins and insertions at the same level, and are therefore in no sense suspensory. "The uterus," to quote Alexander, "floats, as it were, in the midst of structures of a specific gravity not much less than itself," and the ligaments simply poise or steady it. When the body is pushed back to the physiological limit, the round ligaments restrain the movement and prevent dislocation of the fundus below the sacral promontory. The utero-sacral ligaments differ from the others—their uterine attachment occupies a lower level in the pelvis than their insertion into the sacral vertebrae. The ligaments may therefore be called suspensory. They also keep the cervix towards the sacrum, and along with intra-abdominal pressure are the chief factors in maintaining the normal anteversion of the uterus (Fig. 1). Abnormal Positions of the Uterus.—1st. Displacements of the Uterus as a whole.—We have seen that the organ may be elevated, retroposed, or anteposed as a whole by physio- logical causes. The mobility of the uterus also permits these changes of position to occur as ut. sac. ligt. . - Sacrum- - Fig. 1.—(a) Represents action of ut. sac. ligt. ; (b) intra- abdominal pressure. the result of pathological agencies which render the displacement permanent. For example, ascent may be caused by adhesions drawing up the uterus or by tumours pushing it up from below and fixing it permanently in its abnormal position. In like manner retroposition of the uterus may be brought about by adhesions posteriorly drawing it and fixing it towards the sacrum, or by tumours situated in front of the uterus pushing the organ back. Anteposition may be caused by adhesions in front drawing the uterus forwards, or by tumours behind pushing it against the pubes. The mobility of the uterus is also such that by fixing a volsella in the cervix one can draw it down to the vulva. This descent occurs pathologically, as when the uterus is pushed down from above by intra-abdominal pressure or by tumours, as in prolapsus uteri. The lateral mobility of the uterus is normally less than in other directions, still it allows of that organ being drawn to one side of the pelvis by con- tractions or adhesions, or of being pushed there by tumours. 2nd. Displacements of the Uterus bi/ Version.— In version the uterus rotates (1) Round an imaginary transverse axis with its fundus for- wards and cervix backwards constituting ante- version, or with the fundus backwards and the