TUBERCULOSIS 150 and cautery were finally used with success. In the scrapings tubercle bacilli were demonstrated. In Berlin two men who are employed in the slaughter-house to carry the condemned tuber- culous meat to the place where it is destroyed, have developed tuberculosis of the skin of the hands. At a recent meeting of the Medical Society of Berlin, Professor Lassar (La Semaine Med., Jan. 1, 1902) presented cases of ven-ucous tuberculosis of the skin. He had observed this type of skin tuberculosis in butchers who had handled tuberculous meat. Of 34 cases seen by him 4 were in butchers; while on the contrary, among those affected with other forms of tuberculosis localised to the skin of the hands, none belonged to this calling. Liebreich agreed with the view taken, and said he had been able to assure himself that verrucous tuberculosis of the skin was much more common among those whose duties require handling tuberculous meats than among others. Blaschko spoke of the case of a cook seen by him in whom a tuberculous lesion followed the prick of a piece of bone. Drs. Joseph and Trautmann {Deut. vied. Woch., March 30, 1902) report three cases of verrucous tuberculosis of the skin occurring among employees of the municipal abattoir in Berlin, who worked exclusively with tubercular animals. M. P. Krause {Munch, med. Woch., June 24, 1902, quoted in Gazette des Hopitaux, July 3) reports a case of infection through a skin wound. A man, 30 years old, of robust constitution, with no family history of tuberculosis, a worker in a slaughter-house, had always enjoyed per- fect health. Three years ago he injured the right thumb with a splinter of wood, and im- mediately afterwards had to skin a tuberculous cow. After several days the right arm com- menced to swell, the swelling progressing slowly till it reached the axilla. He was treated by several physicians, all of whom diagnosed lym- phangitis and tuberculous glands. A series of cold abscesses had to be opened. Examination of a gland and of a piece of ulcerated skin confirmed the diagnosis. Lastly, the patient was examined at Professor Kast's medical clinique at Bi-eslau. The lungs and all the other viscera were found healthy. In the right axillary fossa palpation revealed a small induration ; below this were several in- dolent glands of the size of haricot beans. At the inner border of the biceps there was a gland as large as an almond, which was removed and submitted to microscopic examination. It con- tained tubercle bacilli and giant cells. One cannot doubt that in this case there was an infection from a bovine source. It would seem, therefore, that infection through wounds is not so uncommon as was formerly supposed, and that bovine bacilli can apparently be implanted even in healthy tissues. Conclusions. — Consideration of the whole subject leads us to conclude that the bacilli found in tuberculosis in man, cattle, other mam- mals, and most probably in birds, are closely related, most probably descendants of one original germ modified by successive passage through individuals of a certain species. Bacilli by this successive passage through the same species have acquired a special virulence for animals of that species, and have lost their virulence to some extent for animals of any other species. Thus the bovine bacillus is more virulent for bovines and the lower mammals than for man, who is naturally insusceptible. The three bacilli have gradually attained morphological and biological characteristics which are transmissible to their direct descend- ants, and distinguish them from each other. Their characters, nevertheless, by suitable treatment can be approximated. Bovine and human tuberculosis are, under favourable conditions, intercommunicable. " Therefore, bovine tuberculosis is a menace to the health of man; to what extent we can- not at present positively define, but that it does really exist cannot be denied. There has been exaggeration in the past, but however great this may have been, it does not now justify any attempt at belittling the risk, and it is folly to blind ourselves to it" (Ravenel). Infants, those of early ages, and weaklings are specially liable to be infected by bovine tubercle bacilli, and chiefly through the agency of milk. The statistics bearing upon the in- creased frequency of tuberculosis in infants, and upon the relative frequency of ingestion tuber- culosis in children, must be accepted as fairly con- clusive evidence on this point. Even if it could be shown that tuberculosis was not conveyed by milk, the precautions taken in the past have had such an important result in lessening the mor- tality from a still more fatal disease—diarrhoea —that we are justified in continuing them. Until the question is finally decided, the duty of guarding our milk supply is laid as heavily upon us, and no relaxation can be allowed in our attempts to obtain a healthy supply, particularly for children. TuberCUlotOXine.—A toxine de- veloped by tubercle bacilli. Tuberculum. /See Tubercle ; Tongue {Development, Tuberculum Impar). Tuberiform Abscess. See Axilla {Diseases, Superficial Inflammations). Tuberose. — Resembling a tuber or rounded swelling, e.g. a tuberose mole, or one covered with wart-like pi'orainences. See Preg- nancy, Ovum and Decidua {Fleshy Mole). Tuberosity.—A projection, usually more