317 URTICARIA vessels of the hypoderm—not of the capillaries of the corium, for they do not possess any muscular wall—and that this spasm is quickly replaced by a paralytic dilatation, or by a dilata- tion the result of a stimulation of the vaso- dilator nerves. This vaso-dilatation is respon- sible for the initial hypereemia of the wheal, but associated with it there is an exudation of serum fi-om the dilated vessel, which, by con- stricting the vessels through pressure, causes the anaemic appearance of the wheal to super- vene. The lymph in the skin returns chiefly through the veins, and as these are constricted, it is dammed back, collects, and dilates the spaces in the deeper layers of the corium. When the collection of oederaatous fluid becomes excessive the epidermis is also affected, and a vesicle is formed by the fluid collecting either immediately below the epidermis or between the epidermal cells. Prognosis.—Urticaria is never in itself dan- gerous to life unless where the mucous mem- branes are seriously involved, but it may some- times be an indication, especially in elderly people, of serious underlying organic trouble, such as cancer. In acute urticaria the prog- nosis is, as a rule, excellent, for when the de- termining cause has been eliminated the urti- caria quickly disappears. In the chronic type, and in the papular urticaria of infants, the prognosis should be more guarded, as it may take several months, or even years, before the disease is got rid of. The prognosis in these chronic cases largely depends on the recognition of the underlying cause, and in those cases which seem to baffle treatment the difficulty has generally been to discover the cause. In infantile urticaria the ultimate prognosis is generally good, though for several years fresh outbreaks may occur from trivial causes. The disease is frequently worse in hot summer weather, and may dis- appear entirely during the winter. Diagnosis.- -There is, as a rule, no difficulty in the diagnosis of urticaria, the characters of the wheals being so peculiar as to prevent mistakes. In the giant-type and in the oede- matous form affecting the loose skin about the eyelids and genitals, some difficulty may be experienced in distinguishing it from erythema nodosum or gummata. Where it is present in the mucosae, and occasions symptoms of suffoca- tion or gastric disturbance, it may be difficult to recognise, but the diagnosis can generally be made by the discovery of ordinary urticarial wheals on the skin. The diagnosis of papular urticaria in infants is sometimes far from easy on account of the scratch lesions, excoriations, and pyogenic infections which complicate the eruption. It has to be differentiated from pedi- culosis, scabies, and, where vesicles are present, from varicella. From scabies it is distinguished by the absence of the acarus and its character- istic burrows, and from pediculosis by the absence of the small hsemorrhagic puncta sur- rounded by an erythematous halo which are peculiar to pediculosis vestimentorum. In vari- cella, feverishness or other general symptoms are usually present for twenty-four hours before the eruption comes out; these are rare in urti- caria papulosa; and in varicella the lesions generally come out first on the trunk, forehead, or face; while in urticaria vesiculosa they are most common on the hands and feet, and ordinary urticarial lesions, or those peculiar to lichen urticatus can, as a rule, be detected else- where on the skin. Treatment.—The first essential for the suc- cessful treatment of any of the forms of urticaria is to discover and remove the cause of it. Mere empirical formulae for internal or external remedies are only palliative so long as the causal factor remains. The treatment of urti- caria thus varies so greatly in individual cases that it will only be possible to indicate a few of the general lines which should guide the physician in attacking this troublesome condi- tion. For convenience of desci'iption the treat- ment of urticaria may be divided into the internal treatment and the external or local treatment. Internal Treatment.—In acute urticaria, due to the taking of some drug, such as copaiba or iodide of potassium, the offending drug must be completely stopped, and not simply reduced in dosage. If it should result from a toxin derived from some article of diet, the latter should be eliminated as rapidly as possible. If the patient be seen soon after the eruption has made its appearance an emetic of mustard, zinc sul- phate, copper sulphate, or apomorphine may be ordered ; if seen later, saline purgatives, such as sulphate of magnesium or sodium, and diuretics are indicated. When the attack of urticaria occurs in association with malaria, quinine should be employed. In the more chronic types of urticaria which are so often connected with gastro-intestinal derangements, it is the latter which most urgently call for treatment. Where chronic gastric catarrh and dyspepsia are present the indigestion should be treated on general principles. The diet must be most carefully regulated. The patient is usually the best judge of what he is capable of digesting. Rich food,pastry, shell-fish, potatoes, and strong tea should all be avoided. Beer and sweet wines must be eschewed, and if alcohol be taken at all it had best be in the form of well- diluted spirits or good claret. Hot water may be drunk with advantage the first thing in the morning and before going to bed. The bowels must also be carefully looked after, as the slightest constipation and irregularity may determine a fresh efflorescence of wheals. A sedentary life should be as far as possible avoided, and exercise strongly advocated. The