602 ZONA Zona..—Without any qualifying adjective zona means herpes zoster or shingles. See Herpes {Herpes Zoster or Zona). With a qualifying adjective zona is a name given to various parts of the body, etc.; e.g. zona arcuata (the internal zone of the basilar membrane of the cochlea), zona cochleae (the cartilaginous part of the lamina spiralis), 2071a dentictdata (the lamina denticulata), zo7ia glomerulosa (the outer part of the cortical portion of the adrenal body), zona pellucida s. radiata (the vitelline membrane of the ovum), zona vasculosa (part of the Graafian follicle of the ovary), and zona virginitatis s. castitatis (the hymen). Zona,ry.—Having the form of a zone, e.g. the zonary placenta of the Carnivora. Zone.—A girdle, tract, or belt (Gr. t^w-q, a belt); or, in a special sense, herpes zoster (zona). A hysterogenous zone is a part of the body {e.g. ovarian region) which, if subjected to pressure in a hysterical woman, leads to the supervention of a hysterical fit; similarly, a hypnogenous zone is one pressure upon which causes sleep. Zonula,.—A little zone or girdle, e.g. the zonule of Zinn {see Zinn), the zonula cartila- ginea (crista spiralis), etc. Zonular.—Belonging to a little zone or belt, e.g. zonular cataract (lamellar cataract). Zonulitis.—Inflammation of the zonule of Zinn. See Lens, Crystalline. Zoo-.—In compound words zoo- (Gr. t,C^ov, an animal) means relating to animals ; e.g. zoo-che- mistry {t\\Q chemistry of animal life), zoo-dynamics (animal physiology), zooglcea (a stage in the life- history of some microbes in which they lie in a secreted, gelatinous matrix), zooid (resembling an animal), etc. Zoster.—A girdle or belt (Gr. ^waTrjp, a warrior's belt), as in such terms as herpes zoster, zoster facialis (herpes zoster in the region of the fifth cranial nerve), etc. Zosterif orm. — Resembling herpes zoster or zona, e.g. zosteriform morphoea. See Sclerodermia {Circiomscribed). Zuckerkandl's Convolution.— The subcallosal convolution of the brain. Zuckerkandl's Vein.—A small vein (one of the ethmoid veins) by means of which the veins of the lateral wall of the nose com- municate with those of the cerebrum. ZygapophysiS.—The articular process of a vertebra. Zyg'O-. — In compound words zygo- (Gr. ^tiydi/, a yoke or jugum) means shaped like a yoke or related to the zygoma of the facial skeleton ; e.g. zygomaticus major (a small muscle arising from the malar bone), zygomaxillary (belonging to the zygoma and superior maxillary bone), zygospore (a spore arising from the con- jugation or zygosis of two gametes), etc. Zyg'Oma.—-The yoke-shaped bone formed by the junction of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone with the temporal process of the malar bone ; from it comes the descriptive term zygomatic ; e.g. zygomatic arch, zygomatic fossa, zygomatic spine, etc. Zymase. See Enzymes {Monosaccharide- splitting Enzymes). Zymine.—A fei-ment extracted from the pancreas, or simply, an enzyme. See Enzymes ; Physiology, Tissues {Zymin-secreting Epithe- lium). ZymO-.—In compound words zymo- (Gr. ivfjLT], leaven) means related to fermentation ) e.g. zymolysis (decomposition due to the action of organised ferments, zymosis (fermentation by organised ferments, or, the morbid state due to a zymotic disease), etc. Zymog'en.—A substance which exists in some secreting glands and which by chemical action produces an enzyme or ferment; literally, a ferment-producei'. See Pancreas {Physiology); Physiology, Tissues {Zymin-secreting Epithe- lium). Zymog'eniC. — Ferment-producing or fermentative, e.g. zymogenic bacteria. See Micro- organisms {Composition of Bacteria). Zymophore. — Having a fermentative action, e.g. the zymophore group of the comple- ment in haemolysis. See Immunity. Zymotic.—Belonging to the process of zymosis or capable of producing zymosis (fer- mentation or an infectious disease); e.g. zymotic disease (an infectious fever), zymotic theory (the theory that in zymotic disease the infecting particles act as ferments on the tissues of the individual attacked), etc. See Diphtheria {Etiology); Epidemiology ; Puerperium, Path- ology {Fever in the Puerperium, Zymotic Causes).