588 YAWS the West Indies as 25'8 per 1000, chiefly from intercurrent disease. By cachexia or debility it may predispose to or increase the severity of subsequent disease, and the multiple skin lesions give opportunities for entrance of the germs of phagedsena, tetanus, and so on, but otherwise the general health is rarely much aff'ected. Prophylaxis.—The comparative immunity of Europeans and the effect of segregation indicate that the most efficient means of prevention con- sists in avoiding of overcrowding and dirty clothing, care about abrasions, and isolation of the sick. Thorough purification or destruction of infected huts and clothes, the local treatment of the tubercles, and their protection from insect carriers of infection, are similar useful measures. All precautions should be taken in vaccinating in yaws districts, more especially during outbreaks. Treatment.—General: Aneemia and debility should be counteracted by plenty of nourishing, easily digested diet, and tonics. Chill should be avoided, as tending to repress eruption, and the patient's hut, therefore, should be warm and dry. Diaphoretics and aperients are useful in favouring the eruption, and sulphur and bitartrate of potash are frequently prescribed during the early stage, and are also sometimes useful later. When the eruption is out— mercury, iodides, and sarsaparilla are exten- sively given, but the former, from its tendency to produce antemia, should be cautiously pre- scribed. Arsenic is particularly valuable in badly developed cases, and may be given as Donovan's solution. Powell, with the object of producing a curative febrile condition, has inocu- lated cases with Haffkine's comma bacillus, and suggests a similar trial with the erysipelas germ. It seems possible that thyroid extract would produce the effects of the febrile state without the obvious disadvantages of this treat- ment, and it has been tried in Trinidad with favourable results (De Verteuil). At a later stage various tonics, such as iron, quinine, and arsenic, are sometimes indicated. Local: Various applications have been recom- mended. Carbolic, chromic, picric, and salicylic acids, nitrate of silver, and sulphate of copper, and many forms of mercurial ointments, may be used. Ulcerating tubercles should be touched with carbolic, cleansed with lotion, and dressed with iodoform or other antiseptic. Crab yaws are best treated by prolonged soaking in hot lotion and removal of the skin covering them, and subseqiient application of copper sulphate or calomel ointment. Cleanliness of the skin is most essential, and sea-bathing is strongly recommended. Yeast.—Saccharomyces, a genus of Fungi. See Enteroptosis (Treatment, Fresh Yeast), Micro-Organisms {Blastomycetes); Teeth {Bac- teriology of the Mouth). Yelk.—Yolk {q.v.y Yellow Atrophy of Liver. See Jaundice ; Liver, Diseases of {Special Condi- tions Characterised by Jaundice, Acute Yellotv Atrophy); Pregnancy, Affections and Com- plications {Digestive, Jaundice). Yellow Body.—Corpus luteum. See Generation, Female Organs of {Ovaries). Yellow Chill. See Blackwateb Fever {Nomenclature). Yellow Colour. See Colour Vision {Theories of Colour Perception). Yellow Fever. Synonyms ...... 588 Definition ...... 588 Virus of Yellow Fever . . . 589 Etiology— {a) Distinguishing Characters . . 590 (6) Endemic Centres . . . 590 (c) Epidemic Extensions . . .591 {d) Epidemic Characters . . . 591 (e) Yellow Fever as a Ship Disease . 592 {f) Topographical arid Altitudinal Relations . . . .593 ((/) Meteorological Relations . . 593 {h) Conditions affecting Susceptibility —Pace, Acclimatisation, Age, Sex, Profession . . .593 {i) Predisposing Causes . . 594 {j) Sources of the Virus . . .594 {k) Modes of Transport and Trans- mission ..... 594 Clinical History ..... 595 Morbid Anatomy ..... 596 Diagnosis . . . . . .597 Mortality and Prognosis . . 597 Prophylaxis ...... 598 Treatment 598 See also Blackwater Fever {Diagnosis from Yelloiu Fever); Dengue {Diagnosis); H^mate- MESis {Causes); Malaria {Diagnosis); Myiasis {Flies as Carriers of Infection); Pulse {Fre- quency in Yellozv Fever); Pvrpvra. {Symptomatic, Infections). Synonyms.—Typhus icterodes (Cullen): Fr. La fievre jaune ; It. Febbre gialla; Span. Fiebre amarilla ; Ger. Das Gelbfieber. Definition.—Clinically, yellow fever is char- acterised by a single paroxysm, lasting usually from three to five days, accompanied by frontal and supraorbital headache, injection of the conjunctivae, flushing and puffiness of the face, severe pain in the loins and lower extremities, gastric distress, retching or vomiting, with a diminished secretion of urine. A fall in the temperature may now end in convalescence, or the remission be followed by yellowness of the