VAGINA, DISORDERS OF THE 414 vaginal wall being separated from that of the rectum for a sufficient distance all round the margin of the fistula. In the second step of the operation sutures are introduced; in the case of denuded surfaces one row of interrupted sutures is applied, the material employed being silkworm gut, wire, or silk. Where the flap- splitting operation is chosen the rectal orifice is usually closed by a layer of buried catgut sutures, and the vaginal wound is then brought together by interrupted silk or silkworm gut sutures. The method of flap-splitting has the great advantages that by it no tissue is lost, and that there is less chance of tension on the sutures. When the fistula is small and situated at the lowest part of the vagina, just above the perineal body, it is best to split the perineum and to operate in the way that is usual for this condition. The after-treatment in all cases is just the same as that following the operation of perineorrhaphy. Va.g'ina.l.—Belonging to the vagina, or, less often, to any sheath-like structure, e.g. the vaginal arteries and vaginal plexus, and the vaginal coat of the eye (capsule of Tenon). Va.g'inectomy.—Excision of the vagina or colpectomy, recommended in inveterate cases of prolapsus uteri in elderly women. Va.g^iniSinuS.—A painful contraction of the sphincteric muscles of the vagina, either at the vulva (inferior vaginismus) or higher up near the vault (superior vaginismus). See Vagina, Disorders of {Vaginismus). Vaginitis.—Inflammation of the vagina. See Vagina, Disorders of {Inflammatory Affec- tions). Vagi no-.—in compound words vagino- means relating to the vagina of the female or to any sheath-like structure ; e.g. vaginodynia (vaginal neuralgic pain), vaginofixation (fixation of the uterus by means of an incision through the fornix vaginae and suturing of the uterus to the anterior vaginal wall), vaginotomy (incision of the vagina, or vaginal section), and vagino- vesical (relating to the vagina and the bladder). VagituS.—The cry of a new-born child, and, in a special sense, the cry of a child while still in the mother's birth-canal (vagitus uterinus). VagO-.—Relating to the vagus nerve (q.v.), as in vagotomy (section of the vagus) and vago- accessorius (the nerve-carrying fibres of the vagus and of the spinal accessory nerves). Vagrant's Disease. See Vagabond's Disease. Vagus Nerve. See also Alcoholism {Visceral Variations); Aseurysm {Neck, Opera- tive Treatment, Risks); Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Nerve Deafness); Brain, Physio- logy OP {Cranial Nerves, Origin of); Epilepsy {Symptoms, Epigastric Aura) ; Heart, Physi- ology OF {Cardiac Nervous System); Larynx, Neuroses of {Innervation of the Larynx) ; Pharynx, Examination of {Neuroses of Sensa- tion); Physiology {Cranial Nerves, Circulation, Respiration) ; Pulse {Influence of the Vagus); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Anatomy, Nerves).—The vagus, pneumogastric, or tenth cranial nerve is a mixed nerve with a very wide peripheral distribution. Anatomy.—The vagus nerve is intimately associated with two nuclei in the medulla oblon- gata. The dorsal nuclexis, to which a large portion of the vagus trunk proceeds, lies beneath the floor of the fourth ventricle, immediately external to the hypoglossal nucleus and internal to the nuclei of the posterior columns. The pro- minence on the floor of the ventricle which is known as the ala cinerea marks the position of this nucleus. A large portion of the glosso- pharyngeal nerve terminates in the same group of cells, which is for this reason commonly called the vago-glosso-pharyngeal nucleus. The dorsal nucleus of the vagus is generally looked upon as having a sensory function, although some writers hold that motor fibres also arise from it. Some of the vagus fibres take origin from a smaller mass of grey matter which lies ventral to the nucleus above mentioned and detached from it. This is the accessory vagal nucleus, or nucleus ambiguus. The seventh nerve and some fibres of the glosso-pharyngeal arise from an upward prolongation of the same group of cells, while from its downward continuation into the spinal cord the eleventh nerve takes origin. The nucleus ambiguus is regarded by the majority of recent writers as the motor nucleus of the vagus. Marinesco is of opinion that the fibres which supply striped muscle arise from this nucleus, while those innervating non-striped muscle originate in the dorsal group of cells. A small part of the entering vagus root has been traced into the fasciculus solitarius, a com- pact bundle of fibres which lies external and slightly anterior to the dorsal nucleus. This bundle also contains glosso-pharyngeal fibres. It passes caudally, and gradually splits up into end ramifications, which terminate in the ad- jacent grey matter of the medulla. The fasci- culus solitarius is sometimes known as the ascending vago-glosso-pharyngeal root. The fibres from the nucleus ambiguus pass for a short distance backwards; they then run forward at an acute angle, those from the anterior part of the nucleus joining the fibres passing from the dorsal nucleus to form the common vagus trunk, while those which arise posteriorly after leaving the brain unite with the nerve of Willis to form the spinal accessory.