300 URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN formed by the combination of a molecule of biurate with a molecule of free uric acid, and the ease with which their aqueous solutions throw down crystals of free acid is ascribed to the disintegration of the compound molecule. However, much doubt has recently been thrown upon the accepted views on this matter. Under the microscope the sediment is seen to consist of minute amorphous granules mostly grouped into threads and clusters. Such sediments are deposited from acid urines on cooling, and their nature is easily recognised by the readiness with which they dissolve when the urine is again warmed. Their colour, which varies from a pale yellow, through brick-red, to a brilliant pink, is due to urinary pigm^ents which they carry down with them. The chief of these are urochrome, which is always present in them, and which imparts a yellow tint even to the palest sediments, and uroerythrin, which has a special affinity for uric acid and the urates, and which probably enters into some sort of combination with them, for the colour of the pink sediments, and their spectrum as seen by reflected light, differs from those of the isolated pigment. Tlie frequency of the pink sediments is due to the fact that the same morbid conditions are wont to determine the formation of uratic deposits and the excretion of large quantities of uroerythrin. As might be expected, urate sediments are commoner in winter than in summer, and they are met with in the urine of healthy persons after active muscular exertion or after slight indiscretions of diet. The chief factors which determine their occurrence are concentration of the particular specimen of urine and the degree of its acidity. They do not necessarily afford an indication of excessive output of uric acid, although such increase may contribute to their formation. They are apt to occur in the course of most febrile disorders, and deep pink sedi- ments are specially frequent in connection with organic and functional disorders of the liver, as also in connection with gouty troubles, and in cases of acute rheumatism. The disappearance of such sediments when the urine is warmed, and their coloration, usually leave no doubt as to their nature, but if further confirmation is needed this may be readily obtained by filtering off the sediment and applying the murexide test, or by dissolving it in water and observing the separation of crystals of uric acid after the addition of a small quantity of hydrochloric acid. Ammonium biurate is occasionally deposited from ammoniacal alkaline urines in the form of minute yellow or brownish spherules which are beset with needle-like excrescences, the so-called hedgehog crystals. If the crystals are dissolved in an acid, uric acid crystals will be deposited from the solution. This deposit is usually met with in association with sediments of ammonio- magnesium and other phosphates. Uric Acid.—Crystals of free uric acid form a very common urinary sediment. They may form an abundant deposit of deep red " cayenne pepper" sand, or may be scattered as golden crystalline points through a cloud of mucus at the bottom of the urine glass. The crystals vary very greatly in size and in form, but are usually readily recognised by their colours. These colours are due to included urinary pigments, especially urochrome and uroerythrin, but other pigments share in their coloration. When deposited from urine containing bile they are tinted by bilirubin or biliverdin or a mixture of the two, and those deposited from carboluric urine are deep brown in hue and appear black in bulk. Urobilin takes no part in the colora- tion of these crystals. In scantily pigmented urines, and especially in that of young children, they may be almost colourless, or actually devoid of colour. The form of the crystals is also profoundly modified by the included colloids, and they always deviate somewhat widely from the form of the rectangiilar plates of pure uric acid. The pre- dominant shape of the urinary crystals is the canoe or whetstone form, and many of the less usual forms are produced by the fusion of such crystals. Sheaves and rosettes of prismatic crystals are occasionally seen, especially in urines containing biliverdin, and hour-glass and dumb-bell crystals are also described. A double- comb form may also be referred to, which is apt to occur when the precipitation has been brought about by the addition of an acid to the urine, and it should be borne in mind that very faintly tinted hexagonal crystals of uric acid have occasionally been mistaken for those of cystin. Any urine, if kept acid, will, in course of time, deposit crystals of uric acid, and although an excessive excretion of the acid is one of the factors which favour the formation of such sediments, they are apt to occur apart from this cause in any concentrated and highly acid urine. In early childhood they are very common, and in the urine of infants mats formed by the interlacing of innumerable minute whetstone crystals are often seen, some- times in association with hsematuria. As a rule, uric acid sediments have no great clinical significance, but the frequent appearance of cayenne pepper sand is a common accompani- ment of calculous formation. When the nature of the crystalline deposit is in doubt, owing to scanty pigmentation or for other reasons, the murexide test affords con- clusive evidence. Calcium Oxalate. — Crystalline deposits of calcium oxalate are of frequent occurrence. They are met with both in acid and alkaline urines, especially in the former. The crystals,