270 URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN Gland ; Puerpbrium, Physiology {Excretory System); Rheumatism, Chronic {Treatment, Attentio7i to Excretory Organs); Rickets {Clini- cal Featiires, Urine); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Symptomatology, Secretory) ; Sup- puration {Diagnosis, Alicrobes in Urine); Tem- perature (Changes in Urine in Fever); Tetany {hi Toxic Conditions, Albuminu7-ia); Toxicology {Carbolic Acid, Symptoms) ; Toxicology' {Alco- hol) ; Typhoid Fever {Etiology, Symptoms, Complications); Typhus Fever {Symptoms) ; Uremia ; Uric Acid ; Urination ; Urine, Bac- teria in ; Uterus, Malformations of {Develop- ment of Genito-Urinary Organs); and Vagina, Disorders of (Urinary FistulcB). I. Introductory Examination of the urine is one of the most ancient of methods employed in the diagnosis of disease, and advancing knowledge, far from diminishing, has greatly enhanced the value of the indications which it affords. Whereas the early physicians, from Hippo- crates downwards, were perforce content with what could be learnt by such simple means as inspection and smell, in more recent times analytical methods, both qualitative and quanti- tative, have been applied to the recognition and estimation of the various constituents of this highly complex mixture, and the microscope, spectroscope, and polarimeter, not to mention other instruments, are all brought into requisi- tion for the elucidation of certain special points. By such means a great mass of knowledge has been accumulated regarding the composition of the urine in health and the changes which it undergoes in disease, but it will only be possible to speak, within the limits of the present article, of such points as are of special importance and interest from a clinical rather than a pathological standpoint, and to describe briefly such simple methods of analysis as are employed in clinical work. For discussions of the more complex problems which arise, as also for the more elaborate methods in use in the laboratory, it will be necessary to refer the reader to the various treatises devoted to the subject. So many of the waste products of metabolism are chiefly or wholly eliminated in the urine, that the changes in the amounts of its various constituents, and the presence in it of substances which are not present under normal conditions, afford very important indications of disturbances of the complex chemical processes at work in the organism. The individual constituents are derived from various distinct sources. Some of them are products of the metabolism of the tissues of the body itself, waste products of the combustion of the muscular, fatty, and other structures. Others, again, are substances introduced into the alimentary canal, and which, although they are thence absorbed, are not incorporated into the tissues but find their way either unchanged or in altered forms into the renal excretion. These two classes of substances overlap to a considerable extent, and not a few of the con- stituents of the urine are partly endogenous, i.e. products of tissue metabolism, and partly exogenous, that is to say, constituents of the food which pass through the body unchanged. Some of these latter, as for example certain in- organic salts and many drugs, fulfil highly useful purposes in their passage. In yet another class may be included certain products of the action of the bacteria which are so abundantly present in the alimentary canal, either upon the materials of the food or upon the constituents of the bile, and the quantities of such products excreted in the urine afford valuable information as to the state of affairs within the alimentary canal. Among such derivatives of the food may be classed the members of the indoxyl group, which are ex- creted by the kidneys in the forms of indoxyl sulphates and glycuronates, and other aromatic compounds which also appear as conjugated sulphates. On the other hand urobilin, the chief member of the latter group, has for its parent substance the pigment of the bile. Among the products of the body tissues which appear in the urine in disease are some which do not appear to be formed in the normal organism, and others which must be looked upon as intermediate products of metabolism which, in consequence of the abnormal conditions which prevail, have escaped the further changes which they normally undergo, and are therefore excreted as such. However, it is not yet possible to make any complete classification of the urinary constituents according to their places of origin, since we are still in ignorance of the sources and modes of formation of not a few of them. Of no less clinical importance than the evidences of disordered metabolism which are obtained from the study of the renal excretion are the indications which are afforded of disease in the urinary tract. Thus the power of the kidneys to hold back the albumin and globulin of the serum is easily impaired by morbid changes in those organs, with the result that these proteids are excreted in the urine in larger or smaller amounts. It is in this connection, too, that the microscope is of special service in urinary diagnosis, for, with the exception of some kinds of bacteria, all organised cells or groups of cells present in the urine have their origin in the kidneys, ureters, or some other portion of the genito-urinary tract, or in cavities in communication therewith. Thus by means of the microscope we are able to distinguish between hsematuria due to haemorrhage from the kidneys or from below them, and hsemo- globinuria resulting from the presence of free blood pigment in the plasma. Again, epithelial cells of various kinds are met with, from the