47 TONSILS, DISEASES OF ately follow the tonsillotomy, or come on a few hours after the operation, especially under the influence of exertion or excitement. Treatment of Hoemorrhage after Tonsillotomy. —If the heemorrhage be only a free capillary oozing the patient should be induced to sit up and sip some iced water or suck pellets of ice. Gargling with hazeline and water (3 to 1) is often a useful remedy, as also is the application of styptic colloid to the bleeding surface. A pad of cotton wool dipped in a creamy solution of tannic acid 5iij., gallic acid and water and applied to the tonsil, will rarely fail to check haemorrhage, especially if counter- pressure be at the same time applied externally and maintained for three to five minutes. If the arterial jet can be seen, an endeavour should be made to seize the bleeding point by means of suitable forceps, and either twist or apply a ligature to it. The hgemorrhage nearly always ceases if the patient becomes faint, and it would only be when every other method had failed that one would have to consider the advisability of tying the external carotid artery. In all cases the patient should remain quiet for forty-eight hours after the operation, and only take cold, soft food. 2. Morcellement."—This method is suitable for long flat tonsils which cannot be made to project through the ring of a guillotine. By means of " punch-forceps," as introduced by the writei", such tonsils may be safely, quickly, and effectually removed at one sitting. The method is also convenient for removing tonsils in adults, or in any case where haemorrhage may be feared. 3. " Enucleation " has been advised for large tonsils which on account of their shape are not suitable for removal by the guillotine. The anterior pillar is dissected off the upper part of the tonsil, and the index finger inserted above the gland, which is peeled downwards out of its bed. The method gives excellent results, but is not often necessary if " morcellement" be adopted. For enucleation a general anajsthesia will be necessary, a practical point in which it compares unfavourably with " morcellement." 4. Galvanc-puncture.—This method has been advocated for the gradual destruction of tonsils in adults where tonsillotomy might be followed by haemorrhage. At each sitting three or four punctures are made into the substance of the tonsil, and repeated in the course of a few days until the tonsil has shrunk sufficiently. The method is long, somewhat painful and tedious, and with " morcellement" to fall back upon the writer considers the use of the cautery rarely necessary. 5. Wire Ecraseur.—The wire loop has been used both hot and cold for removal of tonsils in adults, because of the freedom from haemor- rhage. The pain after removal is often ex- ceedingly severe, especially when some minutes have been occupied in tightening up the snare. Otherwise the matter is safe and efficient. Chronic Tonsillar Abscess The etiology of the condition has already been referred to. The abscess may be situated in the tonsillar substance or in the supratonsillar fossa. In the latter case it often finds an exit into the mouth, and the patient complains of a frequently recurring unpleasant taste. In some cases it is possible to cause the pus to flow by pressing the tonsil from below upwards. Such abscesses produce aching pains in the side of the throat and various forms of throat discomfort. Sometimes the abscess contents caseate or calcify, and a tonsillolith or calculus results, which if hidden in the supratonsillar fossa may easily escape notice. Such abscesses should be opened by guillotine, bistoury, or punch-forceps, and their cavities made to freely communicate with the mouth, when they will at once granulate up and evince no tendency to recur. Tonus, Muscle.—The tense condition of resting muscle between its points of origin and insertion, due partly to passive elasticity and partly to a continuous contraction kept up by the action of the nervous system. See Parai-ysis {Spastic Paralysis, Muscle Tomis); Physiology, Tissues {Muscle, Physical Char- acters) ; Spasm {Muscle Tonus). Tooth. See Teeth; Cocaine {Uses in Toothache, etc.). Topsesthesia.. — Local sensibility to touch (Gr. to'ttos, a place; ata-^r;o-ts, perception by the senses). TopSlig^ia..—Pain in a limited area which does not correspond to the distribution of any particular nerve. Tophaceous.—Of the nature of tophi. See Tophus. Tophus.—A " chalk stone," such as occurs in gout about the joints of the hands and feet and in the cartilages of the ear (Lat. tophus or tofus, tufa or stone); it consists chiefly of urate of sodium. See Gout {Morbid Anatomy, Chalky Deposits). Topica.1.—Relating to a place, local (Gr. to'ttos, a place or locality); so a topical remedy {topicum) is one whose action is local, and topical diagnosis is based on phenomena due, for instance, to causes acting on a limited area of the brain or spinal cord. Topo. — In compound words toj^o (Gr. TOTTos, a place) has the meaning of local or local- ised, e.g. topoalgia (localised pain), topographic anatomy (descriptive or surface anatomy), topo-