504 VOMITING Complications {Digestive Distturbances); Preg- nancy, Diagnosis (Symptoms); Pregnancy, Causes of Death during; Spine, Surgical Affections of (Injuries, Fracture-Dislocation); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of ; Tem- perature {Depression, Causes); Thyroid Gland {Exophthalmic Goitre, Symptoms); Toxicology {Phosphorus); Trades, Dangerous {Lead Poison- ing, Symptoms); Uremia.—Examination of Vomited Matters. — In examining vomited matters, the first essential is to filter the vomited matter, and then separately investigate the solid residua and the filtrate. The main points to be determined are— (a) The reaction of the fluid. (6) The presence of pepsin, or trypsin, or rennic ferments. (c) The presence of bile or blood. Assistance may be obtained in the micro- scopic examination by the use of various aniline dyes which have an affinity for the different types of cells present in the vomit derived from the mucous membrane of the stomach, oesopha- gus, pharynx, or mouth. It is important to bear in mind that vomited matters may consist either of substances present in the stomach when vomiting begins, or of substances entering it during the process. The latter includes saliva, bile, pancreatic juice, blood, and sometimes faeces. The act of vomiting is induced by a contrac- tion of the stomach muscle with relaxation of the cardiac orifice. Along with the contraction of the wall of the stomach there occurs a simul- taneous contraction of the diaphragm and muscles of the abdominal wall. The whole of this mechanism is vmder the control of a vomit- ing centre situated in the medulla close to the respiratory centre. This centre is readily ex- cited to action by irritation of various afferent nerves. Of these the most important are— 1. The nerves of the stomach, vagus and sympathetic. 2. The nerves of the liver and gall-ducts, vagus and sympathetic ; hence the occurrence of vomiting in cases of hepatic derangement, which may be either primary from a biliary calculus, inflammation, and the like, or second- ary to inflammation of the pleural surface of the diaphragm. 3. The nerves of the kidney and bladder. Vomiting is frequent in cases of renal calculus ; also in various forms of Bright's disease. 4. Uterine and ovarian nerves. Irritation of these nerves is one of the commonest causes of reflex vomiting. 5. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve to the soft palate, root of the tongue, and the pharynx. There are a few points of clinical importance re vomiting that are liable to be overlooked. In the first place, in children the act of vomiting is frequently the earliest symptom of an acute infective disorder such as scarlet fever, pneu- monic fever, acute tuberculosis, and similar disorders. In such cases the vomiting is merely symptomatic, and calls for no special considera- tion or treatment. Again, in children, but more especially in adults, vomiting is frequently an important symptom of renal disease, often unsuspected. The treatment of vomiting is the treatment of the disease causing it. Von Baer's Law.—The fact that in the embryology of the higher animals there are temporary stages representing lower adult forms; the fact that ontogeny gives a con- densed phylogeny. See Embryology. Von Baer's Triangle. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Supporting the Testicles). Von Fleischl's Haemometer.— An instrument for determining the colour of blood; a fixed volume of blood in an aqueous solution of known strength is compared, as to colour, with a movable tinted glass wedge. Von Graefe's Symptom. See Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre, Symptoms). Von Hacker's Operation. See Stomach, Surgical {Posterior Gastro-Enteros- tomy). Von Jaksii's Anaemia.—A form of primary anfemia, peculiar to the child; there are structural alterations in the red cells, an increase in the leucocytes, and an oligocy- thtemia and oligochromemia; anaemia infantum pseudoleuksemica. Von Noorden's iVIethod. See Obesity {Treatment, Dietetic). Vowels. See Stammering {Analysis of Ordinary Speech). Vox.—The voice, as in vox cholerica (the weak, hoarse voice of epidemic cholera), vox abscissa (aphonia), and vox clangosa (the shrill- voice of laryngeal disease). Vulsellum. See VoLSELLA. Vulva, Diseases of the.—We shall describe these in the following order :— . 505 . 505 . 505 . 505 . 505 .505 Infective Vulvitis {including Gonorrhoea) 505 III. Vascular Disturbances . . • 506 Varicocele or Varix . . ■ • 506 Hoemaioma . . . . • 506 (Edema 506 Gangrene . • ■ ■ .506 I. Injuries of the Vulva . Accidental Injuries . Injuries duririg Coitus Injuries du7-ing Labour . II. Inflammation of the Vulva Simple Vulvitis