X-RAYS 582 lated water may be attached to the resonator and used as an electrode; by these electrodes the strength of the applications is diminished. Lastly, the patient may be directly intei'ca- lated in the circuit by the firm application of two large-surfaced electrodes attached respec- tively either to the two ends of the solenoid (in parallel), or one to the solenoid and one to the resonator. With the exception of the effluve, none of these methods cause the patient any appreciable sensation. The former occasions slight smart- ing, tingling, and burning, and it is followed by a vivid hyperfemia, which may take from some hours to two or three days to disappear. The strength of the applications can be graduated in various ways, thus :— a. The primary current supplying the induc- tion coil can be altered in strength or voltage. b. The sparking distance can be increased or diminished ; the greater the length of the spark the more powerful are the oscillations. c. The resonator may be more or less accur- ately tuned to the solenoid, etc. Fig. 27.—High frequency electrodes. Schall. The physiological effects of the high frequency currents have been investigated by d'Arsonval, Oudin, Bruchard, and others. Except in the case of the " effluve " and of spark discharges, no sensation is experienced and no stimulation of muscle occurs, even though a current of three amperes be traversing the body [Les courants de haute frequence, Denoyes, p. 64). M. Cornu allowed electrical energy at the rate of nearly one horse-power to pass through his body without experiencing any sensation whatever; six incandescent electric lamps (125 volts 0-8 ampere) were illuminated by the current. The most probable explanation of this immunity is that of d'Arsonval, who (Turner's Medical Electricity, p. 187) suggests that the tissues cannot respond to such rapid alternations. The retina, for instance, only responds to about one octave of ethereal vibra- tions—those that lie between 497 (red) and of 640 (violet) billions per second ; all others, the dark heat rays and the ultra violet actinic rays, are without effect upon it. So too with the auditory nerve, which has a range from seven to eight octaves. D'Arsonval, using alternating currents for stimulating muscles by their motor nerves, found that if the alternations exceeded some 5000 a second, the effect produced steadily diminished as the frequency rose. It has, however, been established by various authorities—d'Arsonval, Denoyes, etc.—that certain modifications in nutrition are brought about. Denoyes {Courants de haute frequence, p. 103) states "that the influence in nutrition is shown, as regards the circulatory system, by vascular dilatation and lowering of the arterial pressure, afterwards followed by a continued elevation ; as regards the respiratory system by a greater elimination of carbon dioxide and a more active absorption of oxygen by the blood ; as regards the urinary secretion by a notable increase in the elimination of waste products; and, lastly, as concerns the heat-regulating mechanism by an increased production of heat." In addition to the vascular dilatation and hyper- semia a degree of ansesthesia is produced by local applications. The laigh frequency currents can affect certain toxines; thus d'Arsonval found that the diph- theria toxine suffered an attenuation, and Bonome rendered the streptococcus toxine ten times less virulent. The effect of the current is to convert the toxins into toxoids. Since toxoids are not only cap- able of producing im- munity, but are also very much less poison- ous, there may be hope for the clinical treatment of diphtheria and tetanus by the conversion of toxin into toxoid within the living body (A. S. Grun- baum, "Goulstonian Lectures," B.M.J., March 21, 1903). Therapeutic Applications The currents have already been applied over a wide field of disease, and a considerable time must elapse before their proper role in treat- ment can be appreciated. The following are some of the diseases for which they have been used:— Gout, rheumatism, diabetes, obesity, tuber culosis. Affections of the stomach, dilatation, haimor- rhoids, and fissure. Progressive muscular atrophy, neuritis, spinal diseases. Trachoma, tinnitus. Malignant disease. Skin diseases. It is impossible in the space of this article to do more than to refer to one or two of the dis- eases in which there is the greatest consensus of opinion as to the beneficial effect of the treat- ment ; for details as to the other diseases the following works and journals may be consulted —Courants de haute frequence, Denoyes ; HigJi, Frequency Treatment, Chisholm Williams; various papers in the Archives de physiologic, by d'Arsonval; Compte rendu de VAcademic des