VEINS, DISEASES OF 421 Varicose Veins— 1. Pathology 425 2. Etiology 425 3. Symptoms and Complications . 425 4. Treatment . . » . . 426 Entrance of Air into Veins . . 427 See also Axilla (InjmHes, Axillary Vein); Bone, Diseases of (Suppurative Osteomyelitis, Symptoms, Veins); Brain, Physiology of (Venous Circulation); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels (Thrombosis); Brain, Surgery of (Thrombosis of Venous Sinuses); HjEMA- temesis (Causes, Varicose Veins); Heart, Physiology of (Venous Sinuses); Heart, Myo- cardium and Endocardium (Examination, Venous Pulsation); Labour, Post - partum Hemorrhage (Etiology); Lung, Tuberculosis OF (Complications, Venous Thi'ombosis); Lungs, Vascular Disorders (Pulmonary Embolism, Causes); Pregnancy, Affections and Com- plications (Thrombosis); Puerpbrium, Physi- ology (Circulatory System); Syphilis {Tertiary, Vascular System, Veins). 1. Anatomy and Physiology The wall of a vein, like that of an artery, is composed of muscular and elastic tissue, lined internally by a pavement membrane, and strengthened externally by a layer of connective tissue. The inner coat (intima) consists of a layer of flattened cells which is continuous with the lining walls of capillaries, and is supported by a small amount of elastic tissue which seldom forms a complete membrane. The middle coat, which contains much less muscular tissue than that of an artery, consists of bundles of white connective tissue, some elastic tissue, and bundles of circular muscular fibres. These circular muscular fibres are almost entirely absent in the superior vena cava and in the upper part of the inferior vena cava, and in some veins there are some longitvidinal muscular fibres. The outer coat is composed of fibrous tissue stronger than the corresponding coat in arteries. Valves.— Many veins possess valves, which are semilunar folds of the internal coat, con- taining a little fibrous tissue, and each valve consists usually of two cusps opposite one another. There are no valves in most of the veins of the viscera, nor in those within the cranium or vertebral canal and bones, nor in the umbilical vein. There is no muscular tissue in the walls of the veins of the pia mater, brain or cord, bones, nor in the venous sinuses of the dura mater or placenta. The walls contain vasa vasorum, nerves, and lymphatics. Venous Systems.—Clinically it is useful to recognise certain great divisions of the venous system, along any one of which the eff"ects of back pressure from an impaired heart may be evident, or which may be affected by pressure. Such are— (1) Superior vena cava system. (2) Inferior „ „ „ (3) Pulmonary venous system. (4) Portal The two former possess valves on their branches, the first from the heart outwards being found an inch from the lower end of the internal jugular vein, in the subclavian vein beyond the entrance of the external jugular, and in the external iliac veins, there being no valves in the internal iliac veins. The two latter, the hepatic veins opening into the inferior vena cava, and the pulmonary veins opening into the left auricle, have no valves, and therefore it is along these systems that the effects of back pressure from the heart are first evident, from the right and left auricles respectively. The coronary system possesses valves which may be incompetent. Venous Plow. — Alterations in the venous flow are so frequent and so evident that it will be well to point out the causes to which this flow is due. They are the vis a tergo of the circulation, the aspirating effect of the heart, and muscular action compressing those veins which have valves. Venous pulse may be observed when the arterioles are so dilated that the artei'ial pulse passes through the capillaries to the veins, and in the superior and inferior vena cava near their entrance to the heart, due to variations in the pressure in the right auricle, as in tricuspid incompetence, and also to respiratory movements. Thrombosis and Phlebitis Thrombosis (6p6[xj3o';, a clot); Synon. : Fr. Thrombose; Ger. Thrombose. Phlebitis; Synon.: Fr. Phlebite; Ger. Venen- entziindung. Definition.—Thrombosis is the formation of a clot or coagulum of fibrin in the heart or vessels during life. Phlebitis is inflammation of the coats of a vein. These two conditions are closely related to one another, and clinically are usually found together. When a thrombus forms in a vein the irritation produced by its presence sets up a phlebitis, and phlebitis is accompanied by thrombosis of the vessel when the inflammation spreads to the inner coat of the vein, since the inflammation causes coagulation of the contents of the vessel. Etiology of Thrombosis.—The coagulation of blood, consisting in the formation of fibrin, is brought about by the action upon the fibrinogen of the serum of a fibrin ferment produced by the destruction of leucocytes and from blood