26 THYROTOMY ThyrotOITiy.—^the splitting or incision of the thyroid cartilage of the larynx. See Labynx, Malignant Disease {Treatment); Larynx, Affections of Cartilages {Stenosis, Treatment). Tibia..—The larger of the two bones of the leg, the smaller being the fibula; the vessels and nerves associated therewith are named tibial, and muscles connected with the bones are called tibialis (anticus and posticus). See Aneurysm {Lower Limb, Tibial); Ankle-Joint. Region op, Injuries {Displacement of Tibialis Tendon); Arteries, Ligature of {Anterior and Posterior Tibial); Deformities {Boiv-Legs); Fractures {Bojies of Lerf); Knee-Joint, Dis- eases of (Tibio-Fibular Joint); Knee-Joint, Injuries of {Fract^ire of Tibia). TibiO-.—In compound words tibio- means relating to the tibial bone, e.g. tibio-calcanean (belonging to the tibia and the os calcis). Tic.—A twitching or convulsive movement of certain muscles, occurring generally as a habit; painless tic. General convulsive tic may be mistaken for chorea {see Chorea, Diagnosis). See also Neuroses, Occupation. Tic Douloureux.—Neuralgia of the fifth nerve in one or more of its branches; also, twitching of muscles supplied by the seventh nerve. See Alcohol {Indications in Disease); Herpes {Herpes Ophthalmicus, Diagnosis); Hypnotism {Treatment of tics in Degenerate Children). Tick! i ng. See Physiology, Nburo-Muscu- LAR Mechanism {Common Sensibility, Tickling and Tingling). Ticks.—Varieties of acarus ; tick fever is also called Texas Fever and ixodiasis of Uganda and other places. See Parasites {Sporozoa, Texas Fever); Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Ixodiasis). Tidcli Air.—The air which enters and leaves the chest during ordinary respiration, averaging 300 c.cms. See Physiology, Respira- tion {Amount of Air Respired); Respiration {Rhythm and Rate). Tidy's Process.—A process by which the organic matter present in water is estimated ; the oxygen process; a permanganate solution is added to the water along with a little dilute sulphuric acid, a change in colour indicates the presence of organic matter, and the calculation of the oxygen consumed is done by means of iodide of potassium, thiosulphate of sodium, and starch solution. Tig'ht-ia.Cingf. See Liver {Perihepatitis, Causation, Traumatic; Menstruation and its Disorders {Menorrhagia, Causes, General). Tightness, Feeling of. See Indi- gestion {Symptoms); Stomach and Duodenum {General Symptomatology, Local). Tigretier.—A form of religious mania with delusions of demoniacal possession met with among Abyssinian women; it is probably a severe form of hysteria. Tin. See Toxicology {Inorganic Poisons, Irritants). TinCSe, Os. — The os uteri externum; literally, the mouth of a tench, from the sensa- tion given by it to the finger. Tinctura or Tincture.—A solution of the active principle of a drug in alcohol, made by maceration or percolation or simple solution, e.g. tinctura opii, tinctura arnicse, and tinctura quininse respectively; most tinctures are given in doses of | to 1 fl. dr. or of 5 to 15 minims, but the tincture of iodine has a dose of 2 to 5 minims. See Prescribing. Tinea.—Ringworm {Lat. tinea, a worm or moth), or, more generally, a spreading skin dis- ease, due most often to a parasitic fungus. See Nails, Affections of {Parasitic, Tinea unguis); Psoriasis {Diagnosis, Tinea Circinata); Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Craw-craw, Dhobie Itch, Tinea Imbricata); Skin, Parasites {Tinea, Tonsurans, Tinea Circinata, Tinea Barbce, Tinea, Unguium, Tinea Versicolor, Tinea Erythrasma); Sycosis {Diagnosis). Tingling.—A stinging sensation, often called " pins and needles," felt after pressure on a nerve or in various nervous diseases. See Brain, Inflammations of {Progressive Softening, Clinical Features). Tinkling, Metallic—A chinking sound heard on auscultation, especially in cases of pneumothorax. See Pleura, Diseases of {Pneumothorax, Physical Signs). Tinnitus Aurium. Vaj-ieties. . . . . .27 Diagnosis . . . . .27 Treatment . . . . .28 See also Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Nerve Deafness); Brain, Affections of Blood- Vessels {Ancemia, Hypercemia, Symptoms) ; Chlorosis {Symptoms) ; Ear, Examination of {Symptomatology). This symptom, described by patients as buzzing, singing, or ringing in the ears or head, is especi- ally common in diseases of the ear, giving rise to defective hearing, but it may be associated with perfectly normal hearing, and in rare in- stances with abnormally heightened auditory acuity. The noises are in general termed " subjective," inasmuch as there is no objective cause for them