400 VACCINATION panic re vaccination would take place, and there would be no waste by providing much more lymph for possible emergencies than could, in non-epidemic years, be used while it was still active. In the German Empire twenty-four State Institutions for the manufacture of trust- worthy glycerinated calf-lymph are kept at work to supply the lymph for about fifty-three millions of people. The United Kingdom, with about forty millions of inhabitants, has but one Government Laboratory, from which no private medical practitioner can obtain lymph. 4. " Efficient vaccination " should be legally defined, and every certificate of vaccination should show if the vaccination had been efficient or the reverse, and its date. The cost of isolating smallpox patients should be borne as far as possible by the head of the family in which each case occurs. " Ob- jectors " might be required to show that they had made, through benefit or insurance societies, arrangements to meet this liability before exemp- tion certificates were given them. As at present arranged the enormous cost of a smallpox epi- demic is not felt by the people who cause it, but by the overburdened rate- and tax-payers generally. In addition to the improvements now sug- gested in the vaccination law, indirect social pressure should be applied in every direction in support of obedience to the law. All who realise the amount of suffering, waste of valu- able lives, and loss of money and energy in fighting smallpox epidemics ought to do all in their power to assist the vaccination laws by informal and mild compulsion applied in their support. The certificate of efficient revaccina- tion should be asked for as a preliminary for every kind of employment. Domestic and out- door servants, shop assistants, clerks in offices and banks, school teachers, parish workers, ser- vants in hospitals, tenants of flats and chambers, the employes of dressmakers, tailors, bootmakers, builders, and carpenters, men and women in factories, stokers, sailors, and officers in steamers, would-be life-insurers, proposers for election into social clubs, should all be required to show their precious Certificate of Re vaccination. No one ever hears of a man refusing a good post in the Police, or Post Office, because he will not be revaccinated ; and if the certificate were con- tinually in demand as a step to employment, it would be obtained and valued. It is for the medical profession to aim at making vaccination efficient, and a perfectly safe and painless opera- tion. Till these results are achieved there will continue to be opposition and prejudice in the minds of the ignorant. The Act of 1898 did great good by enforcing more care in the per- formance of vaccination. Every medical prac- titioner should realise the evil effect of " vacci- nation accidents," even when not fatal, in the formation of public opinion against vaccination. It is only by the creation of a sound opinion as to the immense value of vaccination that legal enactments in its support can be so administered as to overcome the natural inertia of the less instructed classes of the community. The summary of all available evidence as to the value of vaccination cannot be better stated than in the words of the Royal Commissioners in their final report, dated August 1896. They say: " The conclusions as to the value of vac- cination arrived at by the Commission are as follows :—We think— 1. That it diminishes the liability to be attacked by the disease. 2. That it modifies the character of the disease, and renders it (a) less fatal, or [b) of a milder and less severe type, 3. That the protection it affords against attacks of the disease is greatest during the years immediately succeeding the operation of vaccination. It is impossible to fix with pre- cision the length of this period of highest pro- tection. Though not in all cases the same, if the period is to be fixed it might, we think, fairly be said to cover in general a period of nine or ten years. 4. That after the lapse of the highest pro- tective potency, the efficacy of vaccination to protect against attack rapidly diminishes, but that it is still considerable in the next quinquen- nium, and possibly never altogether ceases. 5. That its power to modify the character of the disease is also greatest in the period in which its power to protect from attack is greatest, but that its power thus to modify the disease does not diminish as rapidly as its protective influence against attacks, and its efficacy during the later periods of life to modify the disease is still very considerable. 6. That revaccination restores the protection which lapse of time has diminished, but the evidence shows that this protection again dimin- ishes, and that to insure the highest protection which vaccination can give the operation should be at intervals repeated. 7. That the beneficial effects of vaccination are most experienced by those in whose case it has been most thorough. We think it may fairly be concluded that where the vaccine matter is inserted in three or four places it is more effectual than when introduced into one or two places only, and that if the vaccination marks are of an area of half a square inch, they indicate a better protection than if their area be at all considerably below this." Va,CCine.—The virus of cowpox used in the performance of vaccination for the preven- tion of smallpox ; it may be got from the calf (calf-lymph) or from the human subject (human- ised lymph); also the virus of any specific disease which is introduced into the body by inoculation. See Vaccination.