77 TOXICOLOGY or fourth) the patient becomes melancholic ; he suffers from delusious, and eventually from dementia. He may have epileptic seizures. The knee-jerk is exaggerated, ankle clonus is present, the condition resembling that of spastic paraplegia. Sensation is not affected. After many years the skin shrivels and the muscles atrophy ; the knee-jerk is then lost. The morbid anatomy comprises degeneration of the pyramidal tracts, mostly in the lower dorsal region; degeneration of Goll's column and also of Burdach's in the upper dorsal region, and there may be sclerosis of the lateral columns. Pigmentation of the anterior corneal cells has also been observed. In the very acute form of the disease diffuse myelitis is reported to have occurred. Potato, or Solanum tuberosum, has occasion- ally given rise to poisoning owing to the presence of an excessive amount of solanine, a poisonous constituent, especially of the seed-potato. It is probable, in cases of potato-poisoning, that the tubers which caused the mischief were sprouting, or that some young green potatoes were mixed with them. The symptoms comprise frontal headache, colicky pains in the stomach and bowels, with swelling and tenderness of the abdomen, vomit- ing, diarrhoea, shivering, sweating, depression, slight stupor, oral and visual disturbances, con- gestion followed by pallor of the face, blueness of the lips, widely dilated pupils, initial accelera- tion with subsequent retardation of the pulse, elevation of temperature, syncope, and convul- sions. In one case death took place on the third day. The treatment is to clear the bowels of the potatoes and to give morphine, if necessary, along with stimulants and external warmth. Animal Foods which may cause Poisoning.— Meat, fish, sausage (botulism or allantiasis), milk, cheese. Meat, from a variety of causes, may injure the health of those who eat it. The animal from whence the meat is derived may have been the subject of parasitic disease, such as Cysticercus cellulosce, which affects the pig, or the C. bovis of the cow ; giving rise respectively to Tcenia solium and T. mediocanellata in man. The Trichina spiralis is another animal parasite which renders meat affected with it very danger- ous to those who eat it, the disease produced being known as trichiniasis. This parasite is most common in pork—a meat that in various forms is often eaten in an imperfectly cooked state. The symptoms produced are: a feeling of general prostration, pain, vomiting, diarrhoea, elevation of temperature, and profuse perspira- tion, followed by symptoms due to the presence of the parasite in the muscles ; local pain, tender- ness, and swelling, with rigidity of the affected muscles. The early symptoms of trichiniasis sometimes resemble those of enterica ; at others the onset is sudden, and the condition might be attributed to cholera or to irritant-poisoning. Death, from ulceration of the intestine, from pneumonia, or from exhaustion, may result in four or five weeks, or earlier. The transmission of anthrax and of tubercle to human beings who eat the flesh of animals thus affected is a question that is still sub judice. Apart from the specific conditions above de- scribed, meat may become dangerous as food: {a) from the presence of disease in the animal from which the meat is derived ; [b) from micro- organisms which develop in the meat subse- quent to slaughter; (c) from the presence of toxalbumoses or of ptomaines. The condition due to {a) and {b) is that of a true infection; that due to (c) is one of poisoning without infection. It might be supposed that the dis- tinction between these two classes would always reveal itself—in the one case by a prolonged interval between the reception of the diseased meat and the commencement of the symptoms, and in the other by their rapid onset. Whilst it is true that in the cases of (a) and (6) a more or less prolonged period of incubation elapses after the meat is eaten before any indications manifest themselves, it is also equally true that in (c) the symptoms, though usually speedily developed, may be delayed for a considerable time. The symptoms met with in (a) and {b) are those of an infectious disease. They include headache, anorexia, foul tongue, rigors, constipa- tion followed by diarrhoea, pains in the back and limbs, elevation of temperature, photophobia, delirium, skin eruptions, meteorism, and enlarge- ment of the spleen. The post-mortem appear- ances have a close resemblance to those of enterica—infiltration, ulceration, and sloughing of Peyer's patches, htemorrhage into the bowel, enlargement of the spleen, with possibly depots of pus. Sometimes the symptoms resemble those of the next group. The symptoms met with in (c) are those of acute gastro-enteritis— violent vomiting, purging, prostration, cramps in the legs, and collapse ; the temperature is usually subnormal, but it may be elevated. The post-mortem appearances are those produced by gastro-enteritis, with haemorrhages into the intestinal mucous membranes; the spleen is frequently enlarged, and Peyer's patches may be infiltrated. Special symptoms occasionally ensue, such as dizziness, dryness of the mouth and throat, dyspnoea, heart-failure. When a number of persons have eaten of the same poisonous meat they may not all suffer in the same way; not only may some of the victims be much more severely attacked than others, but the character of the symptoms may also differ in the various individuals. The substances which cause meat-poisoning (c) are frequently spoken of as "ptomaines";