345 UTERUS, INFLAMMATIONS OF THE raw-looking patches are in reality newly formed glandular secreting surfaces, and result from an ectropion of the cervical mucous membrane. True ulceration of the womb is one of the rarest of diseases. The inflammatory process is not confined to the glands and mucous membrane, but extends also to the connective tissue of the cervix, so that in long-standing cases the cervix becomes much enlarged and thickened. Finally, it should be stated that the mouths of the in- flamed glands frequently become obstructed, the secretion becomes inspissated, and retention cysts are thus produced. These are felt as hard, pea-like nodules, and constitute the so- called Nabothian follicles, and account in many cases for miich of the enlargement and irregular shape of the cervix in cervical catarrh. On incision of these follicles, as much as a tea- spoonful of thick, glairy mucus may escape. When the glands are extensively involved we get a condition which has been described as cystic degeneration of the cervix. Etiology.—Laceration of the cervix produced in parturition is undoubtedly the most im- portant cause of cervical catarrh. As a result of the tear, the mucous membrane is exposed to friction and irritation which leads to inflamma- tion. It may be secondary to a vaginitis, the inflammation spreading upwards, or be an extension downwards of a corporeal endome- tritis. All the causes, therefore, of endometritis are also causes of cervical catarrh. It is also very commonly associated with backward dis- placements of the uterus. In nuUiparous patients, gonorrhoea is not an uncommon cause. Symptoms.—In a simple, uncomplicated case leucorrhcea is the outstanding symptom ; pain and weakness in the back, irregular menstrua- tion, and sterility are also generally present. To these may be added the symptoms of endometritis, as the two conditions so frequently occur together. Formerly, it was supposed that many reflex disturbances, such as dyspepsia, neuralgias, convulsions, persistent salivation, profuse salivation, neurasthenic conditions, etc., had their origin in cervical catarrh. Now, how- ever, it is generally believed that the importance of this condition in producing such symptoms has been greatly overestimated, and that if they do occur secondary to pelvic disease the cause is to be sought for rather in an accom- panying metritis or diseased state of the appendages than in the cervical affection. Diagnosis.—The examining finger, on vaginal examination, feels the enlarged, thickened, and generally lacerated cervix, scattered over which are the prominent Nabothian follicles. The everted mucous membrane is soft and velvety, and bleeds readily. The vagina is unusually moist from the excessive secretion. The speculum shows the fissured os surrounded by a red granular surface which looks like an ulcer, the true nature of which has been already stated. If the everted lips of the torii cervix are approximated by means of tenacula the greater part of this red surface will disappear and the extent of the laceration become more evident. A thick layer of tenacious mucus generally covers the inflamed surface. Differential Diagnosis.—The leucorrhcea re- sulting from cervical catarrh has to be differen- tiated from that caused by vaginitis and corporeal endometritis. Examination by means of a Sim's speculum will, as a rule, be all that is necessary in the case of the former. Menor- rhagia, with increase in the length of the uterine cavity, tenderness, and undue vascularity of the interior discovered on passing the sound, indicate the presence of endometritis. Of much greater importance is the differential diagnosis from early carcinoma of the cervix. This may be exceedingly difficult, for it has to be re- membered that the simple condition not infre- quently passes slowly into malignancy. Where there is any doubt, no time should be lost in excising a portion of the diseased tissue and having it examined microscopically. This is really the only certain way of coming to a correct diagnosis in an obscure case. The age of the patient cannot be relied on as affording any reliable information. Cancer is often found in young women. The induration and dis- tortion of the cervix produced by inflammation may both be closely simulated by an early malignant infiltration. Pain, too, is frequently absent in early cancer. In the later stages of malignant disease, when the tissue has begun to break down, there should be, of course, no difficulty. But we cannot afford to wait for this before forming a definite diagnosis, for it is only if recognised very early that malignant disease of the cervix offers any chance of suc- cessful treatment. {See also "Malignant Disease of the Uterus," p. 363.) Treatment.—Constitutional treatment here, as in other pelvic diseases, is of great import- ance, and should never be neglected. The patient should be encouraged to take outdoor exercise, and very often a change of air will be beneficial. Tonics do good, and a strict attention to the diet and action of the bowels are neces- sary here as in endometritis. Complete sexual rest should be enjoined. Locally, astringent douching of the vagina is of great value. The best astringent douche is corrosive sublimate solution, 1-3000; or 1-2000 sulphate of zinc to the pint) or copper sulphate (3ij. to the pint) may be used instead. The temperature of the fluid used need not be over 112°F. Such a douche in a very short time has a marked effect on the leucorrhcea, and causes a shrinking and gradual disappear- ance of the catarrhal patches on the cervix. In nulliparse, if the os externum is narrow, it should be notched to permit the escape of the