YELLOW VISION 600 Yellow Vision.—Xanthopsia. See Colour Vision {Colour-Blindness, Varieties) ; Jaundice {Obstructive, Symptoms); Santonin ; Toxicology {Vegetable Poisons, Santonin). Yellow Wsish.—Lotio hydrargyri flava. See Mercury. Yemen Ulcer.—Tropical Phagedaena. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Tropical Phagedoena, Synonyms). Yerba Santa. — Mountain balm or Eriodictyon (literally, sacred herb), the leaves of a Californian shrub {E. Calif or nicum), con- taining a large quantity of gum resin; it is used as an expectorant in acute bronchitis ; also, as an excipient, for hiding the taste of quinine; the dose is 15 grains, and of the fluid extract (official in the United States Pharmacopoeia) 15 minims to 1 fl. dr. Yerbine.—A variety of caffeine; it is obtained from the Ilex paraguayensis {Yerba mate). Yersin'S Serum. See Plague {Treat- vient, Preventive Sera). Yew. See Toxicology {Abortifacients). Y m S h i. See MoRPHiNOMANiA {Pipe Residue in Opium Smoking). Yohimbin.—An alkaloid obtained from a West African tree (the Yohimbehe tree), forming a white amorphous powder slightly soluble in water, i-eadily so in alcohol, ether, and chloro- form ; it has a local anaesthetic effect when applied to the conjunctiva and when injected hypodermically (1 per cent solution) into the tissues; there is a good deal of evidence that Yohimbin acts as an aphrodisiac in cases of sterility due to impotence, when its action is due to increased excitability of the sacral part of the spinal cord. Yolk. See Diet {Animal Foods, Eggs); FoiTus AND Ovum, Development of {Ovum, Parts). Youngr-Helmholtz Theory. See Colour Vis ion {Physiology, Theories of Colour Perception). Young^'S Rule.—The rule for determin- ing the doses of medicines to be given to children; twelve is added to the age, and the result is divided by the age, the quotient becoming the denominator of the fraction of which 1 is the numerator, thus = A : i.e. 6 + 12 one-third of the adult dose is the proper quantity for a child of six years. This rule does not apply to opium. See Prescribing {Dosage, Age). Ypsiliform.—Having the shape of the Greek upsilon (Y); e.g. ypsiliform, hypsiloid, or Y-shaped fused twins. YumotO. See Balneology {Japan, Sul- phurous Waters). Yverdon. See Balneology {Switzerland, Sulphur Waters). Zag^las' Ligament. — Part of the posterior ligament of the sacro-iliac joint. Zahnleiste. — The dental lamina or (literally) tooth-band, being an epithelial down- growth from the thickening of the epithelium of the mouth from which the gum is developed ; the teeth appear along the under surface of the dental lamina. See Teeth {Development). Zanaloin.—The aloin obtained from Zanzibar aloes ; socaloin. See Aloes. Zang'S Space.—in descriptive anatomy Zang's space is that found in the supra-clavicular region of the neck between the two tendons of origin of the sternocleido-mastoid muscle. Zappert's Counting Chamber. —A modification of the Thoma-Zeiss counting chamber for the estimation of the number of blood coi'puscles. Zea Mays.—Indian corn or maize. See Pellagra {Causes). ZeismuS.—The morbid condition due to eating diseased maize ; pellagra {q.v.). Zeiss' Glands.—The sebaceous glands of the eyelids, connected with the eyelashes; suppuration in one of them causes a Zeissian stye {hordeolum zeissianum). Zeller'S Operation. See Deformi- ties {Syndactyly, Treatment, Operative). Zelotypia.—An abnormally great degree of zeal in bodily or mental effort (Gr. ^^\o?, rivalry or emulation; tvVos, a blow or type). Zenker's Degeneration.— A de- generative change in muscular tissue (waxy or hyaline in character), occurring in typhoid and other long-continued fevers. Zenker's Paralysis.— A form of paresis of the lower limbs due to long-continued kneeling or squatting as in certain occupa- tions ; the external popliteal nerve is that most affected. Zermatt. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Switzerland). Zestocausis or Zestokausis.— The vaporisation or cauterisation of the uterine cavity by means of a two-way metal catheter