531 WHOOPING-COUGH hai'dly reached, or, at all events, the spasmodic efforts are so feeble as scarcely to merit special notice. In cases of average severity and in serious cases a great deal can be done by rational and prompt treatment to mitigate the severity and limit the duration of the disease, the acu- men of the experienced physician having ample scope in regulating the treatment according to the special needs of the patient under observa- tion, and avoiding irrational and unscientific routine. Hygienic.—Pure fresh air is the most import- ant means at our disposal. In suitable weather the patient should be out as much as possible if the case is uncomplicated, and the temperature non-pyrexial. If there is some febrile movement, as there is in most cases for a brief period, the child should be kept in bed. The nursery should be large and airy, the window kept always open. The bed should be placed so as to avoid a cross draught. The clothing should be warm and comfortable, particular care being taken in cold weather to keep the body and limbs from chill. It seems to me that this is one of the diseases of childhood which, in the future, will be treated with advantage on the open-air principle as in tuberculosis. In children there are many diffi- culties not obtaining in adults in carrying out this method, but I believe it has a great future before it in pediatric practice. In tuberculosis it is now being carried out in children of all ages with even more satisfactory results than in adults. We may reasonably expect that in zymotic and other acute microbic diseases great results may be looked for from open-air treat- ment. Dietetic.—The diet during the height of the disease should be lighter than in health and easily digestible, and suited to the age of the child, milk and farinacea with soups forming the staple articles. During the course of the disease in many cases there is a liability to a more or less irritative gastro-intestinal catarrh, due partly to general systemic infection, but also directly to the irritant effects of the secre- tions from the air passages being swallowed. This is often more marked in cases where the child does not vomit freely several times in the day. In cases in which the vomiting is per- sistent after every severe paroxysm the child becomes greatly weakened and emaciated from inanition. In these cases it is the rule to feed the child with light and easily digested nutri- ment shortly after the paroxysm. The quantity should not be too large, but regulated according to the length of interval between the fits. Medicinal.—The drug treatment of the dis- ease is now conducted on a more rational and scientific basis than formerly. There are few diseases in which so many drugs have been tried, a tolerably sure indication of their general inefficacy. During the catarrhal stage, whether the patient is confined to bed or not, it is well to give a saline expectorant mixture with liq. ammon. acetat., vin. ipecac, sodse sulpho-car- bolate in water. Benozate of soda may also be used, and is an excellent remedy in this stage. When the convulsive stage is reached drugs of a sedative nature should be given, such as lobelia, belladonna, and in some cases, with caution, morphia. Bromoform is a remedy which has been lauded by many, but in my own experience it is disappointing in its effects. Antipyrin is probably the most efficacious seda- tive of all. Phenacetin acts in a similar manner, but not with such good effect as antipyrin. Chloral and butyl chloral may be used with advantage in many cases where other sedatives fail. During the stage of decline we should trust to tonic drugs, and the old-fashioned astringent alum, which has well stood the test of time, is often useful. Undoubtedly the only satisfactory tonic in this stage is quinine or cinchona. The liquid extract of the latter may be given with syrup of Virginian prune. Ex- cellent preparations of quinine are the tannate or hydrobromate. During convalescence no remedy does so much good as cod-liver oil, or, if there is ansemia, iron. The cod-liver oil should be continued for many months. Local medication may be applied in solution, vapour, or the insufflation of powders. Careful and persistent local appHcations to the upper air passages are probably the most effectual means of relief to the irritative effects of poison on the mucous surface, if indeed by such means the disease may not be cut short. Nasal treat- ment is often of great service, and has in my opinion been too much neglected. Boracic acid is generally used for this purpose, the nostrils being washed out with equal parts of warm water and a saturated solution of the acid two or three times daily, either with an ordinary anterior nasal spray or syphon douche. Spray with 1 to 4000 sol. of hydrarg. perchlor. may be occasionally used in place of the boracic solution, but discontinued if any irritant effects are produced from swallowing small quantities of the solution. Watery solutions of sulphate or hydrobromate of quinine are often of much service when applied in this way to nose and throat. A very useful spray for nostrils and throat is 1 per cent carbolic acid and 3 per cent menthol in paroleine. When the child permits of its frequent and free application it affords great relief. Insufflations are undoubtedly of much service in many cases where it is possible to apply them, but in my experience this application is difficult in most children. For this purpose quinine is the most efficacious, either alone or combined with one-fourth of resorcin. Iodoform, 1 to 4 of talc, has often a most sedative effect when insufflated into the nostrils. Boracic acid with powdered tragacanth is also a useful