THYROID GLAND, SURGERY OF 21 about the age of puberty. Particularly is this the case with boys, which accounts probably for the number of youths suffering from parenchymatous goitre, who are operated upon for the relief of dyspnoea. During pregnancy, too, and at the menstrual period, women, the subjects of parenchymatous goitre, not infre- quently regularly suffer from some difficulty in breathing, owing to an increase in size of the goitre. All goitrous subjects are apt to experi- ence dyspnoea whenever they suffer from catarrh, and often at no other time. Of the medical treatment of goitre it is unnecessary for me to speak. It is the parenchymatous variety which is in any way amenable to medical treatment. Adenoid disease is a surgical affection, and no benefit is likely to be derived from its medical treatment. Various surgical methods have, from time to time, been resorted to for both varieties of goitre. Setons and injections of various kinds have been employed. Ligature of the thyroid arteries, division or removal of the isthmus are still occasionally practised, but extirpation of a part of the gland in paren- chymatous enucleation of the growth from the substance of the gland when the disease is due to adenoma are, however, the recognised operations of the present time. No one would now, I suppose, for one moment entertain the idea of treating goitre by means of a seton, though not so very long ago this method was recommended and practised. Sir Felix Semon recommends the injection of from twenty to thirty drops of tincture of iodine into a par- enchymatous goitre every third day, and he has given precise directions as to how this treatment should be carried out. The results, however, are not by any means encouraging. Suppuration and death have ensued far too frequently to make this treatment popular. Other fluids, such as tincture of iron, have been injected into a goitre with the view of a cure, but the principle of injection has little to re- commend it, and should not be resorted to. Permanent cures are quite exceptional from this method, and the risk is very considerable. Ligature of the thyroid arteries has lately been revived as a cure for certain cases of parenchy- matous goitre. At best this is an uncertain means by which to attempt to cure any form of goitre. The supply of blood to the gland is so remarkably free, that unless both the superior and inferior thyroid arteries be tied, a cure can hardly be hoped for. It is not a particularly difficult thing to ligature the superior thyroid vessels, but to do so will not interfere per- manently with the size of an enlarged thyroid. If in addition the inferior thyroids be tied, the operation has become a severe and difficult procedure. The inferior thyroids are deeply situated behind the gland, and there is a con- siderable risk of wounding veins in the attempt to reach and tie them. The operation necessary to tie the four thyroid arteries, or three of them, which has been recommended, is quite as serious a procedure as removal of half the gland, and is not nearly so likely to permanently cure the patient. Simple division of the isthmus has been resorted to in cases of parenchymatous goitre for the purpose of relieving urgent dyspnoea. Temporary relief has usually followed this com- paratively simple operation, but with the heal- ing of the wound the difficulty in breathing has recurred. This operation and that of ex- cision of the isthmus have both been resorted to in the belief that the difficulty in breathing was due to pressure of the isthmus on the trachea, but the belief is an erroneous one. If it were true, immediate relief would follow either division or excision of the isthmus, but though relief has in most cases followed both procedures it has not been immediate. It is just in those cases where immediate relief from urgent dyspnoea is imperative that the isthmus will be divided, and as the relief does not follow at once there is not much to be said for the operation. The relief which follows the division or excision of the isthmus for urgent dyspnoea is due, not to the relief from pressure of the isthmus on the trachea, but to drainage from the cut surfaces, causing reduction in the size of the lobes generally, and thus relieving the lateral pressure which is the cause of the difficulty in breathing. The pressure upon the trachea is not from before backwards, but is almost invariably ex- erted laterally. This has been demonstrated over and over again, is admitted, and there is no dispute about it. The dyspnoea of goitre is often of a spasmodic nature, suggestive of spasm of the glottis from irritation of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, but it is exceedingly doubtful whether in goitre this ever is the explanation of the difficulty. In malignant disease, where the structures round about the growth are in- filtrated, spasm of the glottis from implication of the recurrent laryngeal nerve is by no means uncommon, and indeed is one of the conse- quences to be looked for. The character of the dyspnoea in malignant disease is quite different from that in goitre. In goitre the difficulty is very generally almost always tracheal, and there is seldom any difficulty in speaking or aphonia present. In malignant disease the diffi- culty is often laryngeal, so much so, indeed, that aphonia or dysphonia, in a case of disease of the thyroid, should always make us suspicious of malignancy. Whenever it becomes necessary to interfere sui-gically with a parenchymatous goitre, the proper operation to be performed is thyroidectomy. It is undesirable to remove the whole of the gland on account of the lia- bility of myxoedema ensuing, but the greater part of both lobes and the isthmus, or one lobe with or without the isthmus, may be excised with very little risk of such a result arising.