WOUNDS 542 (B) Loan.—The redressing of wounds must be conducted on the same lines as the original treatment, the parts being fenced off with steril- ised cloths, and no rule relating to the disin- fection of hands, instruments, and materials relaxed. Exposure of the wound should also be as brief as possible. Assuming that asepsis has been secured in the case of a wound almost or quite closed, the dressings need not be changed for some days, since only harm can come of premature disturbance and uncovering : at the end of a week healing will have taken place, and stitches may be removed, dry gauze then being applied for a few days longer whilst the scar is consolidating. Earlier attention will be required in various circumstances. Thus the appearance of dis- charge soaking through within twenty - four hours must be promptly met by packing over the spot a pad of absorbent wool secured by light bandaging; and it is advisable to change the whole dressing not later than the next day. Drainage tubes, too, should as a rule be taken out, and if the wound is satisfactory, left out, at the end of the first forty-eight hours. The onset of local pain or general febrile symptoms will also demand early examination of the wound ; if, as is very probable, the trouble is due to pent-up exudate, this must be relieved by taking out one or more stitches and putting in a drain through a track made in the lower angle by a pair of sinus forceps or a director. Again, when a wound has been kept open by the free insertion of gauze, this should be withdrawn by gentle traction on the second day, and re- placed by fresh gauze : to avoid bleeding, any very adherent portions of the material may remain a day or two longer. So long as the wound shows no infective changes, a dry dressing is preferable. But if active inflammation ensues there must be no delay in freely opening up closed surfaces by cutting the stitches, and establishing a wide exit for discharges, which may be efficiently drained away by strips of gauze packed lightly within the wound and leading externally to layers of the same material wrung out of lotion. It is necessary to change wet dressings of this kind twice a day or oftener whilst suppuration is copious, if the septic condition is to be speedily checked. Whenever feasible, immersion of the wound and inner gauze in a bath of weak anti- septic has great advantages : it renders removal of the packing easier and less painful, and enables the lotion to penetrate into the recesses of the wound, where it displaces and dilutes the toxic substances. For cleansing infected parts that do not admit of immersion, irrigation imder low pressure is serviceable, but forcible syringing must never be permitted. Continuous irriga- tion is sometimes of great value, the fluid being delivered as a slow stream flowing from a wick of gauze or worsted in contact with the highest point of the wound, the other end of the wick dipping into an elevated reservoir of lotion. Several precautions are to be taken,—the fluid must not splash upon the wound from a height, it must be kept warm, and it must be unirritat- ing ; normal salt solution answers the purpose very well. With the decline of intense inflammation in a wound that has suppurated, the walls become covered with healthy granulations : these should now be purified as much as possible, and the opposite surfaces drawn together in order to hasten repair by secondary closure. Such complications as stitch abscesses, slough- ing of damaged tissues, and cellulitis, must be dealt with on the lines already laid down, the aim in all cases being the prompt and complete removal of harmful substances from the wound and its surroundings. It may be added that, in dressing septic wounds, the surgeon will find rubber gloves a great protection to his hands. Woura.li. See CuRARA. Wright's CoagUlometer.—An in- strument for determining the rapidity of coagu- lation of the blood. Wright's Stain. — A methylene-blue stain for staining blood films; the red cells are made orange or pink, the nuclei of the leuco- cytes blue or dark lilac, the neutrophile granules lilac, the eosinophile ones pink, and the basophile ones deep blue, etc. Wrisberg, Cartilages of. See Larynx, Examination of {Laryngoscopy). Wrisberg, Ganglion of.—A gan- glion in the superficial cardiac plexus. Wrisberg, Nerve of.—The smaller sensory portion of the facial nerve; also, the cutaneous nerves of the arm. Wrist-drop. See Toxicology {Lead- Poisoning) ; Trades, Dangerous {Plumbism). Wrist-Jerk. See Tendon-Jerks. Wrist-Joint Injuries. Contusions • 543 Dislocation 543 Fractures 545 Colles' 545 Cones' Reversed .... 550 Epiphysary Separation . 551 Longitudinal Fracture of the Loiver End of the Radius . . .551 Fracture of Radial Styloid Process . 552 Fracture of Ulnar Styloid . . 552 Fracture of the Carpal Bones . . 552 See also Amputations (Wrist); Brain, Physi- ology of {Functions of Cortex, Movements of Wrist); Fractures {Humerus); Osteo-Arthro-