333 UTERUS, DISPLACEMENTS OF THE cated is anterior colporrhaphy, and after the patient has recovered from the operation it will be advisable as a pi-ecautionary measure that she wear a Hodge pessary for a considerable time to keep the uterus in anteversion. 2nd. In cases of descent of the second degree, where the uterus is retroverted and has de- scended so far that the external os uteri has reached the vulva, cystocele and perhaps recto- cele being present and the perineum deficient. Here the operator will restore the integrity of the perineum, and will narrow the vagina by anterior and posterior colporrhaphy, or better by bilateral colporrhaphy. These operations do not affect the position of the uterus. It must be raised to its proper height, placed in anteversion, and measures taken to keep it in that position. To accomplish this we must adopt measures which will keep the cervix towards the sacrum (that is, which will perform the lost function of the utero-sacral ligaments) and the fundus to the front, so that intra- abdominal pressure may be directed on the posterior or upper surface of the uterus. The first of these indications may be fulfilled by the Hodge pessary, which, by pushing upwards and backwards the posterior fornix, keeps the cervix towards the back. The pessary may be sufficient to keep the uterus in anteversion, but this result will be more certain of attainment if the operator in addition shortens the round ligaments extra- peritoneally. The maintenance of the uterus at its normal height in the pelvis, with its long axis directed towards the front, is all-important. If this cannot be accomplished, no matter how successful the operations which have been per- formed on the pelvic floor may be, a recurrence of the displacement is almost certain to occur sooner or later, for the simple reason that the uterus falls back into retroversion, and intra- abdominal pressure acting on the anterior surface of the uterus pushes down the pelvic floor. The operative measures above mentioned we have found successful in many old and severe cases of prolapse. The pessary, which is playing the function of the utero-sacral ligaments, may, however, be rightly considered a weak point. In some cases of recent prolapse the utero-sacral ligaments may only be stretched and weakened, and may after a time regain their tone and function and allow the pessary to be dispensed with. But these are exceptions. In the majority of cases these ligaments are irreparably destroyed, and in them the pessary will be a necessity for an indefinite period. For these reasons some gynaecologists feel justified in opening the abdomen and adopting measures which will fix the uterus permanently in ante- version, and at a level which is either normal or above it. For accomplishing this end the gynaecologist may adopt the operation of ventral fixation devised by Olshausen and modified by Kelly, or he may attempt to attain the same end by restoring the utero-sacral ligaments, either by the recently introduced method of Stanmore Bishop or by that of Bowreman Jessett. These operations for the restoration of the utero-sacral ligaments fulfil the indica- tions desired, and the operator can attain his object with greater certainty if he at the same time shortens the round ligaments intra- peritoneally. 3rd. When the uterus is completely prolapsed both vaginal walls are everted, and the bladder and peritoneum are outside the vulva. In extreme cases of this sort the surgical pro- cedures mentioned under class 2 are applicable, especially in women who have not passed the menopause, or who, having passed it, are un- willing to have the marital function interfered with. Those not affected by this consideration may have an operation which has been recently introduced, and which promises to be a com- plete and permanent cure of the condition. The operation referred to consists in removal of the entire vagina and uterus, that is, panhystero- colpectomy. In the foregoing summary we have mentioned various operations and their indications, and we now describe these operations in detail. When the vaginal portion of the cervix is hypertrophied it should be amputated. This is done by fixing a volsella in the antero-posterior lip, and with a pair of strong scissors or a knife make a circular amputation, the edges being brought together by passing stitches antero- posteriorly, or better, from side to side, taking care not to obliterate the cervical canal. Anterior Colporrhaphy —One of the simplest methods is that of Stoltz {see Fig. 3), which consists in fixing the anterior vaginal wall at four points, and dissecting away all the redun- dant tissue between these, thereby making a raw surface which is narrowed by means of a suture introduced around the rawed surface in the form of a purse-string. Another effective plan is to fix a volsella in the cervix and draw the latter down to the vulva, thereby making the anterior vaginal wall taut. With the knife one cuts through the entire thickness of the anterior vaginal wall in the middle line from cervix to pubes. The vaginal wall on each side of the incision is reflected off the bladder for a distance of about one inch, then the rawed surface of the vaginal wall on each side of the incision is brought into apposition by means of mattress sutures of thick catgut or silkworm gut, so that the reflected vaginal portions of the anterior vaginal wall resemble the keel of a ship. A third method may be proceeded with in the following manner :—An elongated ellip- tical round surface is made on the anterior vaginal wall, beginning at the cervix and finishing near the urethral orifice. In the