113 TROPICS, THE UNCLASSED FEVERS OF THE affect natives only, males more than females, and children never. It is treated by local blood-letting by puncture of the swollen mucosa. It appears to cause considerable distress, but seldom gives rise to any anxiety. It is very doubtful whether it deserves to have a place as a specific fever, the nasal symptoms, which are diagnostic, being regarded by many merely as a local catarrh grafted on an ordinary febricula. An interesting discussion on this fever will be found in the Transactions of the First Indian Medical Congress, 1895. Low" Fever.—"Low" fever is a condition which seems also to be due to a climatic em- barrassment of the heat-regulating centres, and differs from the other members of this group by its indefinite duration, which may cover a period of weeks and months without the development of any specific symptoms. It is characterised by a persistent low elevation of temperature, beginning insidiously with slight general malaise and anorexia. The temperature ranges from 99° in the morning to 101° or 101'5° in the evening, and it may continue for many weeks unaffected by quinine or arsenic pushed to ex- treme doses, or by any medicinal treatment, but generally yields at once when the patient is re- moved to more favourable climatic conditions. A case which has resisted all treatment for two months will get well immediately on a change to the " hills," or to sea, or even from one part of the same town to another. Cases have been known to persist for eight months, the patient con- tinuing to follow his usual avocations until gradual loss of strength forces him to take the necessary change. It is not contagious, no other member of the family being attacked, though the patient mixes freely with them. If it were due to a specific organism, it would run a more definite course, and " change" would not have the immediate effect which follows it. This fever is not of great frequency, but it is sufficiently differentiated clinically to merit special bacteriological investigation. Continued Fevers of Longer Duration AND more Definite Course Bastard Typhoid.—Instead of resolving in eight or ten days, certain cases of what may at first be regarded as " simple continued fever" run on to twenty-one or twenty-eight days. Their course is that of mild typhoid, but they do not manifest any of the clinical symptoms which are diagnostic of that disease. There are no spots, no pea-soup or other diarrhoea, no gurgling in the right iliac fossa, no delirium, and no marked tendency to adynamia. The spleen is not perceptibly enlarged, or if it is, this in a malarious country is of little diagnostic value. The temperature curve is that of mild typhoid. These cases are met with chiefly in the cold and early hot seasons, the seasons of typhoid prevalence, and they occur most fre- VOL. X quently in individuals who have only been a short time in the tropics, as happens also with true typhoid. Their course is uninfluenced by quinine, they show no sign of periodicity, and you look in vain for the malarial parasite. They are met with oftenest in large cities, and there with such frequency that they have re- ceived local names, as " Calcutta fever " in Cal- cutta, " Bombay fever" in Bombay, etc., and for that reason I have distinguished them {Brit. Med. Jour., 24th September 1898) as "urban continued " or " bastard typhoid " fever. There is very little doubt that they are really mild cases of typhoid fever, and the diagnosis could easily be established by the Widal test, as this fever occurs chiefly in Europeans. I am not aware that this has yet been done in India, but similar cases in South Africa have given a positive reaction in 75 per cent of those ex- amined in this way. In one case of this kind under my observation there was sharp haemor- rhage from the bowel, but in the absence of diagnostic clinical symptoms of typhoid, prac- titioners in tropical towns have hesitated to include them under that name, having in their minds the possibilities of other bacteriological infections by other members of the coli group. ^ It is not improbable as I have suggested else- where {Transactions of the Clinical Society for 1901, vol. xxxiv. p. 127), that we are dealing here with the true "bed-rock" of typhoid fever, and that these cases are really due to a pure infection by the bacillus of Eberth, the char- acteristic phenomena of the clinical picture presented by typical typhoid being due to " mixed infection" from the admission to the blood of other organisms, and that it is these, strengthening and modifying the action of the bacillus typhosus, that give rise to the diagnostic features of typhoid, which are absent in the cases I am discussing. The experimental work of Sanarelli and Remy add great weight to this view. They found that the addition of the B. coli communis to a culture of B. typhosus in- creased its virulence, and at the same time materially altered its cultural characters. The varying features presented in different epidemics of typhoid, the comparative frequency of throm- bosis and muco-colitis, and the profuseness of the eruption, in South Africa for instance, are also in favour of such a theory. In view of these considerations it might be well to retain the name of "bastard typhoid" to designate cases which run the course of typhoid without its characteristic symptomatic and pathological phenomena. Double Continued Fever.—Manson {Tropical Diseases, p. 247) mentions a form of continued fever which he encountered in South China, both in Amoy and Hong Kong, " characterised by an initial pyrexial stage of from ten days' to 1 Vide articles on "Paratyphoid Fever," American Journal of Medical Sciences, Aug. 1902. 8