459 VICE ganism is for work; and it is our business to make it as efficient a mechanism as possible— fit to evolve the utmost energy it may, and for as long as possible. Vices, then, are acts and habits which depreciate the organism as a working machine. Yet we have now no simpler a conception of the problem before us, but have only shifted the difficulty to another side of it. For instance, the duration of the organism's efficiency is a moot point; for one must choose between premature cessation of iisefulness and super- annuation ; we must decide whether we shall encourage a short life at full pressure, or a long life of mediocrity. Here again we must have regard only to utility, and ignore the claim which even earnest workers advance to survive their usefulness, enjoy a senile leisure, and earn a respectable epitaph. Others, no wiser, would urge youth onward precipitately to a middle life of distinction, crowded and hurried with an excess of effort, and would regard with com- placency an early death or even deliberate suicide. We can only repeat that every case must be a law unto itself. Each life should achieve its best possibilities, and should not be curtailed by excess of early effort; and it must be a matter of opinion how such an ideal is to be furthered. Yet it seems a wise maxim to enjoin, in conformity to our point of view, that no mode of life is justifiable, however brilliant its rewards and however full of zest, which depletes more than it replenishes the organism. For we must recognise that there is a normal limit of durability in all the organs of the body, and excessive wear and tear must be considered vicious. As we consider this subject it becomes more and more clear that the practical problem in most cases is to ensure the proper subordination of the various systems and functions to the whole organism. It is nerve-work after all that counts; the evolution of our race has been to- wards a mode of activity whereby we project our personality upon the world by art and handicraft, by brain and nerves, which convey, in words and in deeds, the return which each man makes to the world in which he finds a living. The organism then is a hierarchy, of which the nervous system is the head and centre, not only for what we call brain-work, but for all effort such as constitutes skilled and unskilled labour, and also domestic activities. Each organ and system therefore must be de- veloped and yet held in check, so that it may make its greatest possible contribution to the nervous system—to quicken the mind so as to promote its capacity for perceiving, thinking, and doing; and the difficulty must always be to determine when the indulgence of any one part of the organism, say the palate, becomes disproportionate, and takes from the whole man more than it gives. In considering that diffi- culty we should bear in mind two different kinds of value which attach to many activities. One of these is the nutritive value, as when one eats and feeds the blood, or walks abroad and re- freshes it; the other is the dynamical value, as when a meal "gladdens the heart," or a noble prospect stirs the imagination. Although these two may be described in common terms, they have essential differences, one of which is that the blood system is the vehicle of nutritive values and the nervous system the chief vehicle of the dynamical; and there are probably char- acteristic differences in the chemistry and in other aspects of these two kinds of processes. It is the latter, the dynamical, utility which we are most apt to depreciate, especially if we share the view of the moralist, who regards all men and most women as of the same nature, and demands from every one the same virtues and the same degree of each virtue. The physician, however, must recognise constitutional differ- ences in his patients—not only for the purpose of nutrition, but also as factors in determining- character and conduct. Probably the only physiology of mind which will enlighten us will, if it ever comes to be written, treat of the subject from this point of view ; will describe the brain as a congregate of all the bodily functions as well as of the mental; and will show how it develops in relation to visceral and systemic and special sense stimulation, and how, utilising the forces of nutrition, it translates these energies into projective or practical activi- ties. And in such a description there must be constant I'eference to the personal equation, to the fact that every organism is peculiar, inas- much as the proportions of its several activities vary from those of all its fellows. This much it has been necessary to say in a general and preliminary manner, for it is clear that an article such as this can only suggest a few aspects of so vast a subject, and leave the reader to work them out in individual cases. And though convention demands that, when we descend to the particvilar, we must discuss only a few flagrant kinds of misconduct, it is clear that mankind suffers far more from errors of omission which most people never dream of regarding as vice. That is the reason why we should focus our attention upon neglect of every function as a vice and not confine ourselves to the idea of the abuse of function. No greater service could be rendered than to suggest to the practitioner how much the ordinary man loses by simple neglect of the possibilities of his nature. If a man has an eye for colour, he robs himself of an important source of energy if he does not satisfy it; a refined palate, an ear for music, a delicate touch, an aptitude for construction, a capacity for sports, and eveiy other gift of the body that we can think of, all have a contribution to make to the organism which should be duly collected. And the same