257 URETHRA, DISEASES OF of other parts. It affects the urethra either as an inflammation of the mucous membrane— urethral tuberculosis—or as an inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding the urethra as it lies in the perinseum, or more strictly localised to the prostatic urethra tuberculous periurethritis. As in other mucous membranes the tubercular inflammation manifests itself in the form of chronic inflammation, miliary tubercles, shallow but circular ulcers, or caseat- ing deposits. The inflammation has occasionally been followed by stricture. The symptoms are those of an ordinary chronic urethritis : a muco- purulent discharge, increased frequency of mic- turition, sometimes with pain and sometimes associated with the passage of blood. Treat- ment consists in administering cod-liver oil, the ordinary hygienic measures now in use for the treatment of phthisis, and the removal of the discharge by unirritating urethral injections. Urotropin may be administered to keep the urine acid (grs. x three times a day in half a pint of water), and iodoform bougies are often of service in the local treatment of the urethritis. Stricture of the Urethra.—True stricture of the urethra—the organic stricture as it is often called — is a narrowing of the urethra caused by a poliferation of inflammatory cells in the submucous tissue, the cells becoming con- verted into scar tissue which afterwards shrinks. Any chronic inflammation of the urethra there- for may lead to a stricture, and the commonest forms of inflammation are gonorrhoeal; injury due to external violence, to the passage of instruments or calculi along the urethra; soft sores, chancres, and phagedsena. Acute reten- tion of urine is sometimes caused by a temporary narrowing of the canal due to inflammatory swelling of its walls—inflammatory stricture— and sometimes from spasm of the muscles surrounding the canal—spasmodic stricture. In- flammatory stricture is the result of acute urethral inflammation, of direct injury to the mucous membrane, and it is often associated with an old-standing organic stricture. Spas- modic stricture is usually reflex in character, and it causes the retention of iirine so often seen after the operation for piles, and after injury to the perinseal region even though the urethra has not been hurt. Like the inflammatory stricture, this reflex spasm of the urethral muscles is often associated with an organic stricture. Symptoms.—The symptoms and their severity vary greatly in diff'erent people, but the most marked, and that which most often brings the patient to a surgeon, is some alteration in the flow of urine. The stream, instead of pass- ing at once in a full flow and stopping com- pletely, presents various modifications. It is often smaller than usual, and may be twisted or forked. The act of micturition takes longer, it is more frequent, and it is painful. The last VOL. X few drops of urine can only be expelled by straining, and even then the urethra is not completely emptied, for the patient complains that the urine dribbles away, and that his trousers get wet if he is at all in a hurry. There is often a slight muco-purulent discharge from the meatus associated with the presence of erosions of the urethral mucous membrane in the immediate neighbourhood of the stricture. The outflow of semen is retarded in the same manner as that of the urine, and various difli- culties arise during intercourse which lead in many cases to a condition of sexual hypo- chondriasis. Sequelce.—Many strictures remain untreated, sometimes because they are unrecognised, but usually because the patient is too careless to undergo the prolonged course which is necessary to cure them. The sequelte, therefore, are numerous and well recognised. The urethra immediately behind the stricture becomes dil- ated and ulcerated ; a calculus may be lodged in this portion of the urethra, or it may yield and allow of the extravasation of urine into the scrotum and beneath the deep layer of the super- ficial abdominal fascia. More frequently, how- ever, only a few drops of decomposing urine leak through the softened mucous membrane, and a perinteal abscess is formed leading to a urinary fistula. The prostate may become congested by the chronic inflammation, and it may either be hypertrophied or suppurate. The urine does not pass freely out of the bladder, which in consequence is often incom- pletely emptied. The urine decomposes, and a condition of chronic cystitis is set up with a deposit of mucus and phosphates which may give rise to such discomfort as to require the performance of a perinseal section. The addi- tional force needed to expel the urine through the narrowed urethra is obtained by hyper- trophy of the muscular walls of the bladder, but eventually this hypertrophy ceases, and the bladder becomes thinner whilst its mucous membrane is pouched, the pouches often acting as traps where small calculi may grow into larger ones. The hypertrophy of the bladder prevents the easy passage of urine along the ureters, which in consequence become dilated and tortuous, whilst the backward pressure acting upon the pelves of the kidneys causes them to dilate. Hydro- nephrosis results, and if the urine becomes purulent a multiple suppurative nephritis or surgical kidney ends the life of the patient. Diagnosis.—The only means of determining whether a patient has a stricture is to pass an instrument, and the proper instrument to pass is a bougie and not a catheter. The acorn- headed black bougies are the best for explora- tory purposes. A No. 12 English should first be passed, and care should be taken that it is 17