TOXICOLOGY 57 days. On the other hand, when successive small but not minute doses are taken over a long period, as in chronic poisoning, the elimina- tion-rate does not appear able to keep pace with the rate of ingestion, and consequently a certain proportion of arsenic is backed up in the tissues, and shows itself in the urine for, possibly, several weeks after the last reception of the poison ; I have found it fifty-nine days after the final dose. After death, arsenic, which has been absorbed, is found in the largest amount in the liver; the kidneys, spleen, brain, and other soft organs contain much less. In chronic poisoning arsenic may be found in the horny scales formed by the keratosis, in the nails, and in the hair; it is also found in the bones. When a considerable quantity of arsenic remains in the tissues at the time of death putrefaction is delayed ; in acute poisoning after a minimum lethal dose putrefaction would probably follow the ordinary course. Tests.—When arsenic is in solution Reinsch's method is a good way of demonstrating its presence; this method can be used when arsenic is in organic admixture. The first and absolutely indispensable step is to prove that the reagents about to be used are free from arsenic. Into a clean flask pour three drachms of pure hydrochloric acid and two ounces of distilled water ; drop in a piece of bright copper foil about three-eighths of an inch square, and allow the acidulated water to gently boil on a gauze-covered tripod over a Bunsen flame for half an hour. Empty the fluid in such a way as to allow the copper to remain in the flask ; if the copper is bright and its colour is un- changed the absence of arsenic may be assumed ; if the copper is discoloured the reagents must be rejected as being contaminated. Should the copper be unchanged it is left in the flask, and some of the fluid which is suspected to contain arsenic is added, along with one-sixth its volume of hydrochloric acid from the same bottle from which the first supply was obtained, and the flask is replaced over the flame. The length of time that the fluid should be allowed to boil depends upon the amount of arsenic present; if there is a considerable amount a few minutes will suffice; but if very little be present, half an hour or even an hour will be required to obtain a deposit. On removing the flask from the tripod the liquid is poured out, the copper being left as before, and the flask is partly filled with water and gently shaken so as to wash the foil; this may be repeated once or twice. The copper, purple-tinted or possibly steel-grey, is then shaken out of the flask on to a piece of filter paper, by means of which it is dried. It is then cut in half with a pair of scissors, and the two pieces are introduced into a clean, dry sublimation tube. The tube is rapidly passed over a Bunsen flame to warm it, and the lower end of the tube is then brought to the margin of the flame and held there for a few seconds until the copper changes colour, showing that the film of arsenic has been volatilised. When the arsenic leaves the copper it combines with oxygen and deposits on the walls of the tube, a short distance above the foil, in the form of tetrahedral crystals of arsenious oxide, which present a very character- istic appearance under the microscope. If the crystals are dissolved, with the aid of heat, in a drop of water, and when cold a drop of a solution of ammonia-nitrate of silver be added, a yellow precipitate of silver arsenite is formed. In addition to arsenic, antimony, mercury, silver, bismuth, and tin are deposited on copper when boiled with it in acid solution ; of these only antimony and mercury yield sublimates. With solutions containing organic matter the copper may be stained although no arsenic is present; the sublimation test, therefore, must never be omitted. When urine is submitted to Reinsch's test it is preferable to previously evaporate it down to one-fourth its volume. Solid organic substances should be pulpified and mixed with a sufficiency of distilled water as to render them fluid. Marsh's Test. — A. flask, furnished with a stopper through which a long thistle-funnel and an exit-tube pass, is charged with some pure zinc and dilute sulphuric acid. The exit-tube is fitted with a wider tube, which is filled with fragments of calcium chloride in order to dry the gas which passes through it; a length of combustion tubing drawn out small at its free end is attached to the drying tube by means of a short piece of rubber tubing. When the hydrogen, which is evolved by the action of the sulphuric acid on the zinc, has replaced the air in the flask, a Bunsen flame is allowed to play on the combustion tube a little before the narrow part is reached. If, after the flame has heated the combustion tube for half an hour, no stain is visible in the narrow part, the acid and zinc may be regarded as being free from arsenic. The suspected fluid is now introduced into the flask through the thistle- funnel when, if the arsenic is present, a stain will begin to show itself where the tube is con- tracted. The length of time required for the stain to develop, and the density of the result- ing deposit, depend upon the amount of arsenic that is present in the flask : if there is a con- siderable amount the deposit begins to appear in a minute or less; if there is only little more than a trace, fifteen or twenty minutes elapse before it shows itself, in which case the experi- ment must be continued for an hour at the least. The deposit in the tube, if of medium density, is brownish and of a metallic lustre; when of greater density it may be black. The tube is now detached from the flask and the stained portion is heated in the Bunsen flame ; the film readily volatilises, and deposits on a