496 VITAL STATISTICS any possibility of the requisite corrections being made. 2. The zymotic death-rate is frequently quoted as a test of sanitary condition. This is a death-rate based on the deaths from the " seven chief zymotic diseases " — smallpox, measles, whooping-cough, diphtheria, scarlet fever, fever (chiefly enteric), and diarrhoea. This death-rate should be entirely discarded, the death-rate from each infectious disease being separately stated. A high death-rate from enteric fever would be a much more serious reflection on the health of a town than a high death-rate from whoopin g-cou gh. The death-rate from each of these diseases in London and in England in 1899 was as follows :— Death-Rate in 1899 joer 1000 Living. England and Wales. London. Smallpox . . . '005 Nil Measles ... -32 -47 Scarlet fever. . . -12 '08 Diphtheria ... "29 -43 Typhus . . -001 Nil Enteric fever . . "20 -18 Whooping-cough . '32 'SS Diarrhoea ... '94 "92 A statement of the death-rate from each of these diseases for a series of years is a much more trustworthy test than a similar statement for a single year, in which accidental causes may have caused a temporary increase, or a statement of the average result for a series of years, which tends to conceal the epidemic variations of the disease in question. The danger of such averages has been well exposed by Chadwick in the remark that "a mean between the condition of Dives and Lazarus tends to make it appear that after all Lazarus has not so much to complain of." 3. The infantile mortality (p. 492) is a delicate test of mixed sanitary and social con- ditions, and stress may always be laid on it from these standpoints. The importance of comparing death-rates at other age-groups has already been emphasised. 4. The most delicate and exact method, if all the data are accurate and complete, is to construct a life-table., and ascertain the expecta- tion of life in comparison with that of other communities. The preceding statistical tests of the salubrity of a community, and any others that may be available, should all, when practicable, be utilised ; and it should always be remembered that these tests, especially the general death-rate, are most trustworthy when contrasting the ex- perience of a community with its past experience, and least trustworthy when contrasting its experience with that of others, owing to the difficulty in the latter case of ensuring the avoidance of error arising from non ceteris paribus. Statistical Fallacies. — If " fallacies " be regai'ded as synonymous with " errors," clearly they may occur at every step. They may be classified as errors of data and errors of methods. The most important errors of data are erron- eous estimates of population and erroneous returns of deaths, especially in the direction of exclusion of certain deaths (p. 490). Death- rates for short periods are relatively untrust- worthy. The erroneous use of the mean age at death as a test of longevity has been mentioned (p. 494). These are, in part also, errors of methods, and numerous mixed examples are given below. Errors from paucity of data frequently arise (the " fallacy of small numbers "), a too hasty generalisation being the most common fault in medical writings, especially in therapeutics. The degree of approximation to the truth of a varying number of observations is estimated by means of Poisson's Formula. If— ^ = total number of cases recorded in two groups, m = number in one group. ?i = number in the other group, so that n = vi-{ n. The extent of variation in the proportion of each group to the whole will vary within the proportions represented by— m hl.m.ti 1 n rl m.n +2*/ —i-*J1'1--2a./ ^i-- M V M M V /" The larger the number of the total observa- tions (/x), the less will be the value of 2,y/^^5^, and the less will be the limits of error in the simple proportion ^ • Thus, of 147 cases of enteric fever 17 died, a fatality of 11-4 per cent. The possible error is determined by the second half of the above formula :— /2^17xl30_„ / 44-20 i.e. the possibility of error =-0746 to unity, or 7-46 per cent. " In other words, in a second series of cases of enteric fever under the same conditions as the above, the fatality may vary from 3-94 to 18-86 per cent, a vague result, which indicates that the first series cannot be regarded as establishing more than a prima facie case in favour of any special method of treat- ment that may have been adopted. Non Ceteris Paribus.—The necessity that data to be compared shall be collected on a uniform plan, and be of a strictly comparable nature, is very frequently ignored. The con- clusion that the administration of a given anti- septic is a valuable means of treating enteric fever is not demonstrated, by the fact that the fatality in the series of cases thus treated is 7 per cent, while in another series treated without antiseptics it is 14 per cent, unless it is shown that the age and other previous conditions of