UREMIA 245 that, in all cases, the toxic influence is mainly, if not entirely, exerted upon the central nervous system. Symptoms.—(i.) Nervous.—The onset is often very gradual, and may be unrecognised or attributed to some other cause. Frequently there is complaint of dull headache affecting the occipital region, or less commonly the frontal; occasionally the pain is more acute, and, when paroxysmal, it simulates violent migraine. It may be accompanied or replaced by giddiness and drowsiness, or by languor and inertia, which gravely interfere with all mental and muscular efforts. These symptoms are peculiarly persistent, though there may be brief intermissions. They may be succeeded by respiratory and digestive symptoms, or the lethargy may increase until it leads to stupor or coma, with perhaps attacks of delirium or with convulsive seizures similar to those of acute ursemia. When coma supervenes without con- vulsions the tongue becomes dry and brown, sordes collect upon the teeth, and the condition resembles that of an advanced stage of typhoid fever. The mental derangements in chronic ursemia include hallucinations, terror, delusions of persecution, and excessive motor irritability. The type of delirium is generally quiet, but occasionally it may be furious. Binswanger, who describes several cases, has found that exacerbations and remissions of the renal disease keep pace with similar variations of the symp- toms of mental derangement. Severe itching of the skin is very frequent and often very distressing. In old people it leads to intense pruritus which defies all local treatment. The irritation may disturb sleep, and even when sufficiently comatose to resist all efforts at rousing them the patients may continue to rub and scratch themselves. Cutaneous hypersesthesia with burning or stab- bing sensations are sometimes met with. It is possible that some of the eruptions which occur in ursemia are primarily due to central nervous changes; they may appear as maculae or papulae of a bright red colour upon the extensor surfaces of the forearms and legs, spreading rapidly over the whole body, or as an erythematous, scarlatiniform, papular, or vesi- cular eruption. Sometimes the rash becomes eczematous; frequently it is accompanied by severe itching. (ii.) Respiratory System.—Reference has al- ready been made {see article on " Nephritis," vol. vi.) to the various forms of dyspncea met with in ursemia independently of the dyspnoea due to oedema of the lung or fluid in the pleural cavity, though frequently associated with these conditions. The chief types are (1) continuous dyspnoea; (2) paroxysmal dyspnoea ; (3) Cheyne- Stokes breathing. The symptoms of (1) and (2) resemble those of spasmodic asthma in their sudden onset, and they are frequently accom- panied by sibilant rales, but the term " ursemic asthma" is to be deprecated. The condition does not ordinarily yield to any of the usual remedies for asthma, while relief may sometimes be afforded by measures calculated to remove nitrogenous waste material. The attacks usually occur at night, and the dyspnoea is often mainly expiratory, though there may be much inspiratory difficulty. The dyspnoea has often a peculiar hissing character, suggestive of laryngeal trouble, but it is undoubtedly due to central changes, rather than to laryngeal or pulmonary obstruction. Similar breathing may occur in connection with acute ursemia, indeed it is considered to be most common with the ursemia of scarlatinal nephritis; in chronic cases it is thought to be most frequent when the nephritis results from alcoholism. It must be remembered that attacks of dyspnoea in chronic nephritis may be due to gradual failure of the circulation, or to interference with the work of the lung, owing to engorgement or to effusion into the pleural cavity, and that these conditions are not necessarily associated with ursemia. The well-known Cheyne-Stokes respiration frequently occurs shortly before death in cases of chronic nephritis, especially in those with secondary cardiac failure, and it is generally thought to be of toxic origin. Persistent hiccough is another distressing symptom in severe cases tending to a fatal termination. It has been observed in numerous cases of renal cirrhosis and extravasation of urine. Although hiccough is generally regarded as a late symptom, it has occasionally been noted early, when only slight oedema of the legs was present. (iii.) Digestive System.—Dyspeptic symptoms are common throughout the course of chronic forms of kidney disease. In the earlier stages of renal cirrhosis they may be of an ordinary type, but when the renal changes are more advanced nausea and vomiting become more frequent, and in their intractable character they resemble other forms of chronic ursemia. The vomiting cannot be traced to any error of diet, and it affords no relief. It often occurs in the early morning, before food has been taken, and the vomited matter may consist either of acid fluid or of alkaline fluid with an ammoniacal odour. Urea has been detected in this fluid, and the alkaline reaction has been attributed to its transformation into ammonium carbonate. It has been suggested that the vomiting is the result of irritation of the stomach by urea or ammonium carbonate, which are being vicari- ously eliminated. Probably this is erroneous, and the vomiting is of central origin, since when urea has been administered to animals with food, vomiting only ensiies after an interval sufficient to allow of absorption. Diarrhoea is generally a late symptom, and it