304 URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN are also commonly seen in the acute stage of parenchymatous nephritis. Their presence is of some importance, as affording evidence that in cases in which they occur the blood present in the urine is derived from the kidneys. Leucocyte casts are much less common, al- though a few leucocytes are not rarely seen attached to hyaline casts. Granular casts appear to be made up of finer or coarser granules, often with an admixture of small, highly refractive fat globules. Such casts, which usually have a yellow or brownish tint, probably consist of the products of de- generation of epithelial cells and of red blood corpuscles. They vary greatly in size, and may be as narrow as those of the hyaline, or as broad as those of the amyloid varieties. Fatty casts are of various kinds, the fat globules being still included in epithelial cells, or free and adherent to a hyaline matrix or intermixed with granular debris. Von Jaksch describes the occurrence of fat crystals as well as of the usual highly-refractive globiUes. The presence of any considerable amount of fat in casts is of grave significance, indicating as it does an advanced stage of degeneration of the renal epithelium. Fatty casts are specially common in the later stages of severe cases of chronic parenchymatous nephritis. In case of doubt the presence of fat may be rendered certain by staining with osmic acid. HcBinoglohin Casts. — In cases of hsemoglobin- uria the granular debris contains numerous casts composed of dark brown granules, which have apparently assumed this form in the renal tubules. Uratic Casts.—Casts composed of crystals of ammonium urate are often met with in the urine of young infants, but it must not be forgotten that the particles of which amorphous urate or ammonium urate sediments are composed are apt to assume a grouping which recalls the shape of renal casts. Animal Parasites.—The most important of the animal parasites which are met with in urine are the ova of Bilharzia hcBmatobia, as their presence is diagnostic of the nature of the hsematuria by which they are accompanied. They are oval in shape and are characterised by the spine-like process which either occupies a terminal position or emerges from one side of the ovum. They are readily seen with a moder- ate microscopic power, their average dimensions being 0-12 by 0-04 mm. Within the shell of the ovum the ciliated embryo may often be clearly seen. Hydatid booklets and the remnants of hy- datid cysts are occasionally met with in urine, their presence being almost always due to the rupture into the urinary tract of hydatid cysts situated in some adjacent part, but the oc- casional development of such cysts in the urin- ary passages themselves has been described. The booklets are readily recognised by their characteristic shape, and occasionally small scolices are passed entire. The Filaria sanguinis hominis has also been occasionally found in the urine. Some parasites occur in the urine as mere accidental contaminations. Thus Pediculus pubis is occasionally met with, and threadworms may make their way into the urine after it leaves the bladder, or through a fistulous com- munication between the intestinal and urinary tracts. Certain infusoria, such as Trichomonas vaginalis, and acari derived from starch used as a dusting powder, have also been found. Accidental Solid Contaminations.—Of these by far the most important is starch, which is so largely used in dusting powders, especially in hospitals, and which is very frequently mistaken by beginners for a crystalline sediment. The form of the granules, which may form an abundant sediment, differs according to the source from which the starch is derived, and they may be oval or polygonal in shape. They are highly refractive, and for the most part show a dark central star by which their nature is easily recognised. When any doubt remains, advantage may be taken of the deep blue colour imparted to them by iodine. Fibres derived from clothing, either coloured or otherwise, are frequently seen, and it is possible to distinguish fibres of cotton, linen, wool, and silk. Hairs also call for mention. They are usually pubic in their origin, but it should not be for- gotten that hairs present in the urine may be derived from dermoid cysts communicating with the urinary passages. XVII. Urinary Calculi Of the substances which are apt to be de- posited from the urine in the form of sediments not a few are liable to form actual concretions in the kidney itself, which may increase in size in the renal pelvis or in the bladder, and so give rise to the various symptoms and to the group of serious morbid changes which are apt to result from their presence. The great majority of such calculi are com- posed of uric acid, calcium oxalate or earthy phosphates, and many of them are of mixed composition. Thus a nucleus composed of uric acid or calcium oxalate may, by its presence in the pelvis of the kidney or in the bladder, set up changes which result in the urine under- going alkaline decomposition and the deposition of earthy phosphates upon the surface of the stone. The conditions which determine the com- mencement of calculous formation are not yet fully known, but calculi contain a certain amount of organic material, which may perhaps play a not unimportant part in the formation of compact concretions instead of a mere dis- crete sediment.