UTERUS, NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE 352 These complications are due to pressure on the veins, and other interference with the circu- lation ; to septic absorption when the tumour has undergone degenerative changes ; to feeble- ness of the heart's action; and to altered con- stitution of the blood, especially in cases where there has been much depreciation of vitality as a result of excessive haemorrhage, severe pain, etc. Parotitis is not common, but when it occurs in connection with degenerate fibroids it is usually suppurative, as in other cases of abdom- inal disease or operation. Heart disease is a fairly common complica- tion of fibroids. It especially occurs as dilata- tion, hypertrophy, fatty and brown degeneration of the musculature. Fatty enlargement of the liver has been ob- served, and is noted by Dr. Bantock. Derangements of the urinary ajjparatus are among thf most serious and common of the complications of fibroids, and are most likely to occur when there is incarceration of the uterus and tumour, or of the tumour alone, within the bony pelvis, especially when the broad ligaments are invaded. The symptoms then resemble those of the incarcerated retroverted gravid uterus (vol. viii. p. 267). Retention and incontinence of urine have been already mentioned, and although secondary changes in the kidneys, due to disease of the bladder or to pressure of a fibroid on one or both ureters, are not so common as in cancerous disease of the pelvic organs, they occur with sufficient frequency to cause great anxiety to the surgeon. Pressure on the intestines, especially on the rectum, already mentioned (p. 349). Pseudo-sciatica and other neuralgic pains due to pressiu-e on the pelvic nerves ought to draw the surgeon's attention to the condition of the pelvic viscera. Not infrequently a pain in the course of one of the pelvic nerves, which has resisted diagnosis and treatment, will be ex- plained by the discovery of a fibroid or other tumour. Relief will follow treatment based on a correct diagnosis. Degenerations of Fibroids.—This term is limited to morbid alterations in the tissues of the tumours, and does not apply to coexisting disease. Thus epithelioma of the cervix is a com- plication but not a degeneration of a coexisting fibroid situated in the body of the uterus. The following table appears to include all the known forms of " degeneration," and is satis- factory in so far that the classification is fairly accurate both pathologically and clinically :— A. True Degenerations— 1. Simple aseptic necrobiosis. 2. Suppuration. 3. Sloughing. 4. QCdematous change and myxomatous degeneration. 5. Calcareous degeneration. 6. Fatty degeneration. B. Transition to other Forms of Growth in Fibroids— 1. Sarcomatous growth. 2. Carcinomatous growth. 3. Teleangiectatic growth. 4. Lymphangiectatic growth. C. " Cystic" change in Fibroids— This is not a pathological entity, but in- cludes cystic development caused by—• 1. Cavities (pseudo-cysts) due to the softening produced by necrobiosis, suppuration, cedematous and myxo- matous change, or as the result of hsemorrhage into soft fibroids or sarcomata. These cavities have no epithelial lining. 2. Cavities formed by teleangiectasis or lymphangiectasis, lined by endo- thelium. 3. True cystic fibroids, in which the cysts are formed by glandular ele- ments within the tumour and are lined by columnar epithelium. Under these headings it is possible to group the degenerations noted in practice by several authors, and it is to be hoped that a more careful and systematic examination of all tumours removed by operation or post-mortem will lead in time to a fuller understanding of these im- portant changes, and consequently to wiser advice and better treatment. Noble. 208 Cases. Martin. 205 Cases. Cullingworth. 100 Cases. Scharlieb. 100 cases. A. True Degenerations— 1, Simple necrobiosis 12 15 2. Suppuration io 3 2 3. Sloughing . 3 4. (Edematous and myxomatous 5 11 27 5 5. Calcareous . 5 3 1 2 6. Fatty . 7 B. Transition to other Forms of Groivth in Fibroids— 1. Sarcomatous 2 6 1 6 2. Carcinomatous 3. Teleangiectatic 2 1 4. Lymphangiectatic C. Cystic Changes in Fi- broids— 1. Pseudo-cysts (cavi- ties due to soften- ing) . . . 5 1 5 7 2. Cavities formed by teleangiecta- sis, etc. 3. True cystic fibroids The above table is evidently very imperfect, ;, for instance, none of the observers have