URINATION, DISORDERS OF 268 the duration of the complaint, the age of the patient, the history of previous trouble with his urinary apparatus. 2. A digital examination per rectum, to dis- tinguish the presence or absence of disease of the prostate gland, or any disease of the rectum which may also act as a causal agent. 3. A careful examination of the urine, more particularly noting the specific gravity, and the presence of sugar or albumin, indicating struc- tural or functional derangement of the kidneys and other organs. 4. If the foregoing are negative, attention should be directed to a general medical exam- ination of the patient, paying particular atten- tion to the state of the heart, blood-vessels, and blood-pressure. Definite changes may then be found long before the urine reveals the presence of any abnormal constituent. The treatment will, if necessary, vary with the cause. The only point calling for further note is number four. The line of treatment should be, (a) judicious use of aperients; (i) attention to the functions of the skin, e.g. by the use of Turkish baths and the like; and (c) medicinal remedies, more especially iodide of potassium in small doses. Incontinence and Overflow op Urine in THE Adult.—A true inability to retain water on the part of the bladder is a very rare occur- rence, and is chiefly found in cases of disease of the nervous system, and is then usually ac- companied by indications of paralysis in other parts of the body. The increased frequency of micturition in people over sixty years of age or thereby, which involves passing water every hour or two both by day and night, is not really incon- tinence, but the reverse. The defect in these cases is an inability on the part of the bladder to empty itself, the cause being usually obstruction from an enlargement of the prostate gland with secondary weakness in the wall of the bladder. There are three methods of treatment applicable, depending on the stage and severity of this disease. These are— 1. In the early stages educate the patient not to cease the attempts at mictiirition until every drop of water has been passed that can possibly be done by a sustained effort. This is a most important therapeutic point, and if early attended to much benefit will be derived. 2. The use of a soft or flexible catheter used under the strictest aseptic precautions. 3. Operative measures directed to the removal of the prostate gland, or that part of it which is the cause of the mechanical obstruction. This subject is further considered in the section on " Prostate Gland." In these cases the muscular tone of the bladder wall may sometimes be im- proved by the use of general and nervine tonics or by electricity, or various massage treatment carried out by an expert in the Turkish system of massage. Incontinence from Disease of the Nervous System.—This is an important group of cases, of which typical illustrations are tabes dorsalis, general paralysis, and indeed all chronic dis- eases approaching their natural termination. Having regard to the nervo-muscular mechanism involved in the act of micturition, we can readily understand that a defect may be due to— (a) A lesion in the brain cortex, accompanied by dulling of the sensibility (paralysis of sensa- tion), or inability to give rise to adequate efferent stimuli (motor paralysis). This factor is perhaps the most important one in explaining incontinence of urine towards the end of any chronic exhausting disease. (6) A defect in the conducting columns of the cord, such as is present in cases of tabes and other chronic diseases of the cord. (c) Interference with the normal activity of the sphincter centre and micturition centre in the lumbar region of the cord, e.g. in cases of paraplegia, traumatic or otherwise, and also in tabes, etc. The temporary nature of the bladder symp- toms in some of these cases is best explained on the assumption that the nutrition of the nerve cells and fibres is from time to time interfered with, mainly from a spasm of their nutrient vessels. It is important to appreciate this point, because it indicates the necessity of treatment of these cases being conducted on general medical lines, and not on strictly neurological lines, as is frequently the case. A word may be said as to the occurrence of disorders of urination in the adult female. The chief point that requires to be added to what has been said has reference to the gravid uterus. In the early and later months of pregnancy in- creased frequency of micturition may be a prominent symptom. If the symptoms become prominent we should suspect a complication, e.g. retroflexion of the gravid uterus, or other com- plications, such as a dermoid, or ovarian or uterine tumour. The position of the urethra in women makes it more easy for pressure to induce a slight degree of irritation followed by incontinence. In these cases treatment must be directed to the causal conditions. Retention of Urine.—In the majority of in- stances this is dependent on mechanical obstruc- tion, the most common causes being an enlarged prostate, and a stricture of the urethra, the result of previous urethritis. An impacted cal- culus and tumour growth are rarer causes of retention. Retention of urine must not be con- founded with suppression, the latter being the result of defective renal activity, as a result of which no urine is produced and the bladder remains empty. Mention should be made of cases of hysterical retention of urine. Young women especially are the subjects of this dis- order. No urine may be passed for a few days, or even longer, and on examination the bladder