528 WHOOPING-COUGH The bronchial glands are usually in a hyper- plastic condition, and there may be passive congestion of some of the internal organs, more especially of the bi'ain. The lungs show patches of emphysema here and there. The disease being of a zymotic nature caused by a specific materies morbi, no efforts have been spared by pathologists in recent years to detect the organism or organisms which cause the disease. It cannot be said that the question is definitely settled, although various organisms have been found in the catarrhal secretions of the respiratory surfaces. Letzerich, Poulet, Burger, and Deuchlar have all found different micro-organisms, but failed to identify any with the disease. Following these observers Afanas- sieff made numerous experiments on rabbits, which he inoculated with pure cultures of a bacillus which he found in the secretion, with the result that symptoms resembling pertussis followed. He found the same organism in children who had died of pertussis pneumonia, and believes this organism is the cause of the disease. Semtcheno repeated and confirmed Afanassieff's experiments. Koplik, one of the most recent investigators, considers he has discovered the specific organism, an anaerobic and motile bacillus with rounded ends. The organism closely resembles that discovered by Afanassieff. Inoculation experiments in animals gave negative results in Koplik's investiga- tions. Capelewski, however, who found the same organism, was attacked by severe catar- rhal symptoms while conducting his experi- ments. More recently Behla has described an organism which he says is not a bacterium, but a protozoon, an amoeba. Deichler and Kurloff have also expressed a like opinion. The organ- ism increases by division and also by spores. The chief site of the parasite is in the larynx and trachea. It is interesting, further, to note that several of these observers discovered a toxin in the urine of children suffering from pertussis, and this was found to be identical with that obtained from pure cultures of Afanassieff's bacillus. As already stated, most of the fatal cases die from some complication which has involved one or more organs, and a reference to these may now be made. Brain.—In addition to passive congestion of the cerebral vessels in rare cases meningeal hsemorrhages have been found, and sometimes effusion into the ventricles. The cerebral sub- stance itself is never found to present any morbid appearances. Abdominal Orr/ans.—Apart from more or less congestion of the blood-vessels no changes have been found. Owing to the fact that the urine is frequently found to be saccharine the kidneys have been carefully examined by many path- ologists, but without any evidence of gross lesion. Heart.—During the paroxysmal fits of cough- ing the circulation is very much disturbed and the aeration of the blood temporarily interfered with, yet no heart lesion has been found either of the endocardium or muscular substance. Conjunctivae and Respiratory Mucous Surfaces. —The conjunctiva} are almost invariably found to be congested, and not infrequently haemor- rhage occurs from the vessels. The mucous surfaces of the nose, larynx, and bronchi are congested and somewhat swollen with excessive mucous secretion on the surface. Emphysema, as already noted, is rarely absent from the lungs. Pulmonary collapse is likewise of com- mon occurrence, the excessive force of the expiratory effort emptying the alveoli of the contained air. Catarrhal pneumonia is a frequent and serious complication, and the morbid appearances are indistinguishable from those found in this dis- ease produced by other causes. Tracheo - bronchial Adenopathy. — The con- stancy with which these glands are enlarged have led physicians of repute to promulgate the theory that this was the primary and essential cause of the disease, but the fact that the glands are enlarged from many other causes in cases where there is no spasmodic cough effectually disproves the allegation. One other morbid appearance deserves notice, and is met with in children after the dentitional period. I refer to ulceration of the frsenum linguae produced mechanically by the forcing of the tongue forwards on the lower incisor teeth. Symptoms.—From the consideration given to the nature of the disease we conclude that it must be classed among the zymotic group, and that it is caused by a specific materies morbi, which, although not yet definitely determined, is of the nature of a micro-organism which attacks the respiratory mucous surface on which it grows, and produces a toxin which gives rise to more or less constitutional disturbance. This toxin does not cause much febrile move- ment, as do the toxins of the other zymotic diseases, for we rarely find the temperature above 100° or 101°, and that only during the first few weeks of the disease. The most marked effects of the toxin would seem to be determined in the central nervous system, and more especially that portion of it closely related to the respiratory apparatus in the lower motor neuron in the region of the nuclei of the vagus nerve. The upper motor neuron in the cerebral cortex would appear to be often gravely affected by the toxin of pertussis from the frequency with which convulsions occur in this disease. As in other zymotic diseases, the symptoms naturally arrange themselves with more or less regularity in certain stages. The incubation period is not exactly known. It is probably variable, perhaps more so than in other diseases of the zymotic group, ranging from two or three days to as long as fourteen.