VESICULyE SEMINALES 453 seminal vesicular disease. Thus complaint is frequent that the penis is shrivelled, cold, bloodless, and numb. The testes are often retracted and supposed to be atrophying. Bad feelings in the head and sometimes sharp head- aches may occur after all. Sexual excitement, mental depression, and melancholy are common in aggravated and long-continued cases of this disease. The disposition may change, a placid person becoming irritable and quarrelsome. The study of mental conditions dependent on seminal vesiculitis is very important, and a clear distinction should be made between such cases and those in which a psychological derangement is accompanied by sexual symptoms, there being no disease with the sexual apparatus. Diagnosis of Subacute and Chronic Vesiculitis. —The symptoms and evidences derived from the digital feel per rectum are most important, not only in determining the grade and nature of the existing seminal vesiculitis, but also in differentially diagnosticating it from other affec- tions. To be skilled in this feel the finger of the surgeon requires much education. To practise the rectal feel the bladder must be wholly or partially distended, and the patient assume a kneeling position—best upon the front of an ordinary chair, with his chest lying upon the top of the chair back. The forefinger of the surgeon is introduced as far as possible into the rectum, considerable force being used by the remaining closed portion of the hand to overcome the resistance of the perineal muscles when these structures are rigid. During this time a counter-pressure is maintained with the free hand over the pubes, in order to bring the seminal vesicles into easier reach of the fore- finger. By so doing the various inflammatory conditions of the vesicles can be mapped out and appreciated. In case the finger detects evidences of vesicular disease, then Fuller's method of " stripping" the vesicle should be carried out, in order that a specimen of the contents of the sac may be obtained {see p. 454). As a result of this stripping the pathological contents of the sac are forced out along the ejaculatory duct into the prostatic urethi-a, from which part, if the expressed fluid be abundant, it flows along the urethra, and finally drops from the meatus. After the stripping the urine should be voided into a glass, and will show evidences of the expressed seminal material. It is a good plan, before the stripping, for the patient to pass a little urine in a glass, so that thus a natural specimen can be compared with the one containing the expressed seminal fluid. When the contents sac are largely purulent, the specimen of urine passed after the stripping will appear more or less cloudy, while that passed before the manipulation may be wholly clear or much less purulent. Where the vesiculitis is quiescent or very chronic there may be no purulent elements in the contents of the sac. in which cases the expressed material will appear in the urine as a partially transparent jelly-like mass, some of which may be globular and some cylindrical. Such cylinders are moulded in the ejaculatory duct. This jelly- like condition of the expressed seminal fluid lasts, however, but a few moments in the urine, since the acidity of that liquid quickly serves to dissolve it. There are many grades in the quality of the expressed seminal fluid, between the purulent and the jellified conditions. Blood may be mixed with the vesicular material, and may be readily recognised. If the bleeding is recent the colour is red; when not recent the tint is brownish. Degenerative changes in con- nection with pus may give a greenish colour; oftentimes also, especially after purulent condi- tions, shreds made up of vesicular epithelial des- quamation occur among the expressed material. A microscopical examination should be made for spermatozoa. Sometimes in light forms of simple inflammation of the ejaculatory duct there will be seen in the urine passed after stripping the vesicle a transparent flake, which floats just under the surface of the urine. The experienced digital rectal feel, together with the process of stripping the vesicles, enables one to diagnosticate seminal vesicle diseases from those of the prostate, bladder, kidney, appendix, rectum, etc. Thus also psychological conditions—functional impotence, hysteria, and sexual weakness due to general debility—can all be differentiated from seminal vesiculitis. Persistent urethral discharges or gleets, when simply symptomatic of a vesiculitis, are fre- quently mistaken for localised urethral disease, stricture,—posterior urethritis, granular ureth- ritis, and not infrequently for chronic cystitis; and the mistake of diagnosing chronic vesiculitis for chronic pyelitis is not uncommon. Treatment.—Subacute and Chronic Vesi- culitis.—These conditions should be treated, according to Fuller, by " stripping" the dis- eased sacs at intervals of five days or a week. It is a safe rule always to begin gently with a new case, where the parts are usually very tender, and to get the patient accustomed to the manipulation before regular and complete strippings are attempted. If the stripping treatment is accomplishing the desired results, the parts should get gradually less and less tender, besides becoming more and more normal to the feel, and at the same time the subjective symptoms should show gradual improvement. Where the treatment has been employed too vigorously or too often, then the finger will detect evidences of fresh engorgement; there will be a reappearance of tenderness together with, oftentimes, an augmentation of subjective symptoms. The duration of the treatment may be for weeks or months to a year or over. In simple non-gonorrhceal cases in youthful subjects,