498 VITILIGOIDEA Vitilig'Oidea.—Xanthoma. /See Xan- thoma [Synonyms). Vitium.—A disease or defect; e.g. vitium divinum (epilepsy), vitium conformationis (a malformation). Vitreous Humour, Diseases of. Congenital Abnormalities . . . 498 Degenerations ..... 498 Inflammatory Infiltration . . . 499 Treatment ..... 499 Injuries ...... 500 Hemorrhage ...... 500 Treatment . . . . .501 Foreign Bodies ..... 501 Treatment . . . . .501 Parasites . . . . . .501 See also Choroid, Diseases of (Plastic Cho- roiditis, Pathology); Diabetes Mellitus (Symp- toms, Affections of the Eye); Eyeball, Injuries of (Contusions, Haemorrhage into the Vitreous); Sclerotic, Diseases of (Injuries). Congenital Abnormalities. — The vitreous humour is developed from mesoblastic tissue, which passes into the eye through an opening in the secondary optic vesicle known as the foetal cleft. It is seen microscopically in the foetus, to be traversed throughout by a dense network of exceedingly fine branching fibrils which have granules attached to them, mostly at the points where they divide. These granules stain with nuclear stains, but are several times smaller than the nucleus of any cell. Before birth this network of fibrils becomes much spaced out; a great number of them disappear together with the granules. It is the persistence of some of the granules on detached fibrils which give rise to the opacities which are seen enoptically, and known as muscce volitantes. These are of such common occurrence that they may be regarded as a physiological condition. By looking at a white surface, such as a cloud or a white sheet of paper, through a stenopaiic aperture they can be best brought into view, and appear as one or more branch- ing delicate lines of opacity with clear round dots on them; they slowly float in front of the eye. Some people discover their presence accident- ally, and then, by concentrating their attention on them, and daily watching their movements, become much alarmed. Short-sighted people and those who suffer from dyspeptic troubles are the class of patients who most frequently complain of them. They have to be diagnosed from floating opacities in the vitreous of patho- logical formation, which, unlike the muscse volitantes, can generally be detected by the surgeon on careful examination with the ophthalmoscope. Patients who have discovered their presence should be told that they are of no importance, and encouraged to try and forget them. In the foetal eye the vitreous humour is a vascular structure. An artery passes through the centre of it, starting from the central artery of the optic nerve and proceeding to the back of the lens, where it breaks up into branches which encircle the lens in a fibro-vascular sheath. This central ai'tery of the vitreous lies in a canal bounded by a hyaline membrane, and in the vicinity of the optic nerve is sur- rounded by a cellular lymphatic sheath. Before birth this artery and its cellular sheath disappear. Various abnormalities may result from their persistence. The artery may remain throughout its whole length, or for a portion only of its extent, either patent and carrying blood, or reduced to a fibrous cord. When a fibrous tag alone remains persistent, attached either to the optic disc or the back of the lens, it will sometimes be seen, with the ophthalmoscope, to lash about on movements of the eye in an undulatory way, resembling closely the movements of a worm. Indeed, these persistent tags of the central hyaloid artery have sometimes been mistaken for filaria in the eye. A portion of the cellular lymphatic sheath which surrounds the artery near the optic disc will sometimes alone persist, the artery having completely disappeared. A white membrane is then seen lying on the surface of the disc in front of the retinal vessels. When the artery remains persistent, patent, and carrying blood, portions of the mesoblastic tissue which should form vitreous humour may develop into fibrous tissue instead, atypical development of the vitreous. Irregular greyish masses of fibrous tissue are then seen in the vitreous chamber with blood-vessels coursing through them, and a history of defect of sight in the eye from birth will be obtained. Degenerations. — The vitreous humour in the fully developed eye consists of a clear fluid, very similar in composition to the aqueous humour, contained in the mesh of a delicate network of transparent tissue which is bounded externally by a hyaline membrane, the hyaloid of the vitreous. There are a few fixed cells in the hyaloid membrane and also some wandering cells in the humour itself. The hyaloid membrane has firm attachments to the optic disc and to the retina at the ora serrata. A lymph channel bounded by a hyaloid mem- brane passes through the centre of the vitreous, the canal of Cloquet, in which the central artery, already referred to, at one time lay. After birth the vitreous humour, being devoid of blood-vessels, is nourished by fluid secreted by the ciliary body. Its normal consistency may become altered by inflammatory or hsemor-