VOL. X 1 ENCYCLOPEDIA AND DICTIONARY OF MEDICINE AND SURGEEY Thiersch's Method.—A method of skin-grafting in which long strips containing j half the thickness of the skin are employed. \ See Skin Gkafting and Allied Procedures (Methods). Thiersch's Operation.—An opera- tive procedure for the cure of ectopia vesicae (two lateral flaps) or of epispadias (four stages). See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases (Malforma- tions) ; Urethra, Diseases op (Abnormalities). Thig'h. See Artificial Limbs (Thigh); Fractures (Femur). ThiO- and Thi-.—In compound words tJiio- and thi- (Gr. Belov, brimstone or sulphur) means relating to or containing sulphur; e.g. thigenol (a soda salt of a sulphur acid used in skin diseases), thilanin (a substance resembling lanolin, containing 3 per cent of sulphur, and used in skin diseases), thiocyanic acid (sulpho- cyanic acid), and thioform (dithiosalicylates of bismuth). Thiol.—Sulphothiolate of ammonium, used in skin diseases in the same way as ichthyol. Thionin.—A sulphur compound (C^H^S), forming a dark blue solution, used as a stain in microscopic work ; Louth's violet. Th ioreSOrci n.—A yellowish powder (CgH^(S0)2), used as a dusting powder in place of iodoform; thioresorcinol. ThiOSinamine. — Sulphocarbamide of allyl (C^HgNgS), prepared from mustard oil (C3H5NCS) by the action of strong solution of ammonia; it is crystalline, readily soluble in water, and has been used in lupus, night-sweats, and hypertrophy and stricture of the pylorus as a hypodermic injection (10 minims of a 10 per cent solution). Thiothrix. See Micro-organisms (Bac- teria, Thiothrix). Third Nerve. See Ocular Muscles, Affections of (Paralysis, Double Vision); Brain, Physiology of (Cranial Nerves, Third); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels (Vascular Lesions of Cms and Pons); Brain, Tumours of (Localising Symptoms, Cranial Nerves); Physi- ology, Central Nervous System (Cranial Nerves); Syphilis (Tertiary, Eye and its Ajipen- dages, Diplopia). Thirst. See Abdomen, Injuries of (Symp- toms) ; Diabetes Insipidus (Symj^toms); Dia- betes Mellitus (Symptomatology) ; Hypnotism (Experimental Phenomena) ; Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis, General (Thirst after Operation); Pneumonia, Clinical (Treatment); Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism (Common Sensi- bility, Thirst); Stomach and Duodenum, Dis- eases of (General Symptomatology, Local Sen- sory Ajfections). Thiry's Fistula.—A piece of bowel is separated from the rest without dividing its mesentery, one end of it is closed and the other is stitched to the abdominal wound, while the two ends of the intestine from which it was re- moved are joined together; from the separated piece of intestine the secretions can be obtained. See Physiology, Food and Digestion (/?^^es^;^?^a^). ThIapsiS DepreSSiO.—Depression or melancholy, a " crushed" feeling (Gr. Okdui, I crush or bruise). Thiipsencephalus.—A form of anencephalus in which the basis cranii, covered by a vascular mass, is exposed through defect of the cranial vault, and in which the degree of spina bifida is slight; the name is an indication of a belief in the pressure or mechanical theory