TYPHUS FEVER 207 blood is very dark and more fluid than normal. Curschmann has noted perichondritis of the arytenoid cartilages with suppuration as occur- ring comparatively frequently. There is always more or less congestion at the bases of the lungs. Complications and Sequels. — Speaking broadly, typhus is a disease remarkably free from complications. As has been suggested above, the respiratory organs may be occasion- ally so severely affected that their condition assumes the importance of a complication. Thus the almost constant bronchial catarrh may be very much exaggerated, the laryngitis, not a very infrequent symptom, may be accompanied by severe and fatal ulceration, and occasionally a true croup- ous pneumonia may ap- pear during or shortly after the fever. Gangrene of the lung has been also reported. Nephritis is occasionally met with both during the disease and in convalescence, and must be regarded as a serious complication, although by no means always fatal. Venous thrombosis or " white leg " has been fre- quently noted, as is the case in enteric fever, and also the more dangerous condition of arterial em- bolism. Internal heemor- rhages and passing of blood by the bowel are liable to occur in the more severe heemorrhagic forms of the fever. Of the other complica- tions most frequently met with diarrhoea is perhaps the most important. Especially in alcoholic cases this condition, start- ing at the beginning of the second week, may cause great danger to the patient. Various inflammations are liable to occur in convales- cence, the most common being enlargement and suppuration of the parotid gland, suppurative otitis media, and superficial skin abscesses. Varieties op Typhus.—-Numerous variations in the severity and course of the fever have been described. It will be sufficient here to briefly indicate the most important. Certain cases of great severity, the patient being early overwhelmed by the virulence of the poison, have been called "typhus siderans." Other types, where the nervous symptoms or the physical prostration have presented the main feature of the disease, are named "ataxic" and "adynamic" respectively. Cases in which htemorrhages have occurred into the skin, and from the mvicous membranes, are classed as " h!3emorrhagic " or "scorbutic." There is also undoubtedly a type which may be termed "abortive," the fever lasting only a week or less. In children, it may be added, the disease usually runs a mild and brief course, and the eruption may be of a fleeting character or altogether absent. Diagnosis.—In the presence of an epidemic diagnosis is not, as a rule, very difficult. The TEMPERATURE CHART Chart 2.- ■Man of 26. A mild case of typhus from the sixth day. Showing temperature with slight remission, improvement from 11th day, and a well-marked crisis. typically sudden onset of the disease, the early prostration, and the ultimate appearance of the characteristic eruption on or before the fifth day, should not present any diflSculty. But it is well to remember that sporadic cases of typhus may occur, and it is very easy to confuse them with other conditions. Again, in children the rash may be very slight and scanty, and the general symptoms of a mild character, and it is some- times very difficult to come to a satisfactory conclusion. In doing so the general appearance of the patient is of great assistance. Even the mildest cases have usually a flushed and some- what bloated face, and the conjunctivae may be said to be always suffused. If a patient with