24 THYROID GLAND, SURGERY OF thyroid tissue must be cut through till the capsule of the tumour is reached. By means of the forefinger the whole surface of the capsule of the growth must be carefully, but as quickly as possible, freed from the thyroid tissue in which it is embedded. This is the stage of the operation at which, not infrequently, very free and sometimes alarming bleeding takes place. As soon as the growth is enucleated every bleeding vessel must, as rapidly as possible, be secured and tied with silk. The interior of the cavity left in the thyroid by the enucleation of the growth must be quite dry and free from clots before it is closed. It is better to drain the w(jund by means of a little gauze. Union should take place by first intention, and the scar should be almost imperceptible. Graves' Disease.—The pathology of Graves' disease is not at present thoroughly understood. The condition has been most successfully dealt with by physicians. Although it is probable no case has been actually wholly cured, the con- dition of the patients suffering from Graves' disease has been much improved by medical treatment, and the progress of the disease has undoubtedly, in numerous instances, been per- manently arrested. The surgical treatment of Graves' disease has not been nearly so successful. According to the views entertained by the surgeon as to the pathology of the affection, various operations have been performed. The superior cervical ganglion has been removed, the sympathetic nerve has been divided, and both sympathetics have been dissected out from the neck and removed, together with their ganglia, on the supposition that the condition might be due to disease of the sympathetic nerves. No sufficiently satisfactory results have followed any of these operations to warrant their repetition. Kocher has tied the thyroid arteries for cure of Graves' disease a number of times, but again the permanent results have not been satisfactory. No case has been actually cured by either of these procedures. A portion of the thyroid, generally one lobe, has been removed a good many times on the theory that Graves' disease was due to functional over-activity of the thyroid gland. Some of these patients are reported to have been com- pletely cured, others to have benefited, and a large proportion to have died during the oper- ation, or a very few hours after. Stars, who has published some statistics on the results of cases of Graves' disease treated by excision of a part of the thyroid, says, "Death after these operations is not due to haemorrhage, nor to any want of antiseptic precautions. In all the cases reported there has been a sudden rise of temperature to 105°, 106°, 107°, a very rapid pulse (180 to 200), extreme nervous excitement and restlessness, with great anxiety and distress, profuse sweating, and finally collapse and death from heart failure." There is considerable difference of opinion among surgeons who have experience of this method of treating Graves' disease as to its efficacy, and on the whole the balance of opinion is against it, or any other surgical interference. Malignant Disease op the Thyroid, whether carcinoma or sarcoma, is fortunately a very rare disease. It is seldom met with in patients younger than forty years, and there are no means by which with any certainty a sarcoma can be distinguished from a carcinoma. Malig- nant disease of the thyroid is a most unsatisfac- tory condition to treat surgically, the mortality arising directly from operation being very high and immunity from a recurrence being very short. The nature of the disease can seldom be diagnosed early enough for the patient to be operated upon with much prospect of success. Clinically, malignant disease is met with in two stages. In the earlier the growth is confined within the capsule of the gland, and there are no signs by which it can, in this stage, be dis- tinguished from a non-malignant disease. Later on, when the growth has extended beyond the boundaries of the capsule and is infiltrating neighbouring structures, the growth is apt to become irregular in outline, and it will be fixed, grow fast, and give rise to a considerable amount of pain. The trachea is often invaded by a pro- longation of growth into it, the carotid sheaths become infiltrated and fixed to the growth. The recurrent laryngeal nerve, too, is pressed upon and is apt to become embedded in the rapidly increasing growth, and in consequence speech becomes difficult; the voice is altered in char- acter, and spasm of the glottis may give rise to alarming attacks of difficulty in breathing, any one of which may destroy the patient. Some- times, too, there is difficulty in swallowing. These symptoms make, at this stage of the disease, diagnosis easy, but unfortunately it is quite hopeless to interfere with a view of curing the patient by a removal of the disease. It is only while the growth is confined within the capsule that there is any chance of removing it successfully, and even then the prospect is a very forlorn one. Sometimes malignant disease of the thyroid runs a very acute course. Berry mentions two cases which terminated fatally— one in three, the other in four months after the first appearance of the growth. They were both males, aged 60 and 25 years respectively. Tracheotomy IN Thyroid Disease.—In certain cases of thyroid disease where death is imminent from difficulty in breathing, tracheotomy may be the only means of affiarding the immediate relief which is necessary in order that life may be prolonged. The necessity for tracheotomy is most likely to arise in cases of malignant disease of the gland. Should the case be one where the urgent symptoms are due to pressure upon and displacement of the trachea by a simple growth or parenchymatous goitre, the proper treatment