URETHRA, DISEASES OF 252 by the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis. The urethra is curved in this situation, the lower wall being convex downwards and separated from the rectum by the triangular space of the perinaeum. The mucous membrane of the membranous portion of the urethra is thrown into longitudinal folds, and contains numerous small mucous glands—the glands of Littre. The prostatic portion passes from the bladder through the prostate from base to apex. It is about an inch and a quarter in length, and contains the verumontanum upon which are the openings of the utricle and the ejaculatory ducts, whilst on either side is the prostatic sinus into which open the many little ducts from the lateral lobes of the prostate. This portion of the urethra is the widest, and is capable of the greatest dilatation. The Female Urethra is somewhat fusiform in shape, and in the adult is about an inch and a half in length. It opens within the vulva behind the clitoris, but in front of the vaginal orifice, the urinary meatus being the narrowest and least dilatable part of the canal. The inner surface of the urethra, as in man, presents numerous crypts of Morgagni, which are largest and most numerous near the meatus. There are also many urethral glands varying in com- plexity from simple depressions in the mucous membrane to true glands of the compound tubular type. Similar glands are found in the vestibule just outside the meatus, where they are called periurethral glands. The periurethral glands are scattered over the mucous membrane, but collectively they are the homologue of the prostate in the male, and calculi are sometimes formed in them. The canals of Skene are two small ducts which open upon either side of the posterior wall of the urinary meatus; they are present throughout life, but increase in size during pregnancy, and are said to attain their maximum size at the time of labour. Abnormalities. — The urethra is developed from the urogenital siims by a complicated series of changes which allows plenty of scope for the production of various malformations. The changes are more complete in the male than in the female, and abnormalities are conse- quently seen more often in boys than in girls. Imperforate urethra, either partial or complete, absence of a part or of the whole urethra, double urethra, anomalous dilatation, pouchings of various kinds, and recto-prostatic communica- tions are the less common malformations met with in practice. Hypospadias and epispadias are the most frequent and most important. Hypospadias.—The condition of hypospadias is due to defective closure of the urethra, which may open on the under surface of the penis at any point between the perinaeum and the glans penis. Tlie slighter cases are the more common, for the hypospadias is generally limited to the anterior part of the penis, but the condition is often associated with considerable deformity of the penis, which is curved downwards during erection, or may be twisted upon itself in such a manner as to render it useless for sexual purposes. The glans, too, is often flattened; there is no frtenum, and the prepuce is long, thickened, and hooded over the imperforate glans. Some of the native tribes in Australia purposely pi-oduce hypospadias by opening the urethra at the root of the penis to limit the population. Treatment.—Operative measures are designed to remedy the deformity of the penis rather than to restore the defective urethra, for ex- tensive plastic operations have been uniformly unsuccessful in my hands. An operation is performed most satisfactorily upon a patient aged 8 to 10 years, and when the orifice of the iirethra lies just behind the corona the skin on the vmder surface of the penis is divided, and retracted until the urethra is freely exposed. The unclosed portion of the urethra is then dissected away, and the tubular portion is freed from its attachments until it can be drawn up and sutured in place of the defective portion whicli has been cut away; the skin is then brought together with interrupted sutures. In the more severe cases an attempt is made to remedy the deformity of the penis, and to render it capable of erection rather than to cure the hypospadias. And the patient is well content with the operation if this end is attained, especially if the nature of the operation be explained to him beforehand, since he is gener- ally above the age of puberty. The skin on the under surface of the penis is divided, all bands of adhesion are dissected away without cutting into the corpora cavernosa, and the urethra is divided at the point where it forms a complete tube. The cut end of the urethra is then attached to the skin, so that the urethra opens on the under surface of the penis at a somewhat lower level than before ; any redundant prepuce is removed at the same time, and the circum- cision is completed in the usual manner. Epispadias is that condition of the penis in which the urethra is defective dorsally. The fissure is often limited to the glans penis, but in the more severe cases the whole penile urethra remains as an open channel, a condition which may be associated with ectopia vesicae. Little or nothing can be done to remedy these extreme cases, though the urethra has some- times been drawn through the scrotum partially to close the canal. In other cases I have separated the mucous membrane from the skin along each side of the cleft, and have afterwards sutured it with fine catgut over a black rubber catheter of appropriate size, the edges of the skin being then brought together with sutures of silkworm gut. The anterior part of the epi- spadias may be closed in this manner, but the