MEDICAL SECTION 15 THYROID GLAND, Graves' disease. The fibrosis unfortunately progresses too far, so that the gland is no longer able to supply a sufficient amount of its secretion owing to the atrophy of the glandular epi- thelium, in consequence of which myxoedema develops. I have only seen one example of this sequence of events in an interesting case under the care of Dr. Scott Jackson of Alnwick. The symp- toms of myxoedema may begin to appear before all those of exophthalmic goitre have quite dis- appeared, or there may be an interval of good health between them. In those cases in which an apparent recovery has taken place, as already described, a recru- descence of the symptoms is not uncommon. In one such case I attributed the return of the symptoms to excessive bicycling. Death may occur from some complication, to which the patient, already exhausted by Graves' disease, can offer but feeble resistance, or from the severity of the disease itself. Cardiac failure is the actual mode of death in some cases, which may thus terminate suddenly and some- what unexpectedly in a fatal attack of syncope. In other cases all the symptoms become acutely increased in severity, and the patient dies exhausted. Persistent vomiting or diarrhoea has contributed largely to the fatal issue in some cases. Patients with exophthalmic goitre bear operations badly. Several have died after removal of one lobe of the enlarged thyroid gland. Under these circumstances death may occur suddenly within an hour or two of the operation. One of my cases died half an hour after the operation. It is difficult to determine whether the shock of the operation itself or the anfesthetic is the chief source of danger. In some cases death occurs within a few days of the operation, from an acute exacerbation of all the symptoms and consequent exhaustion. This appears to be the result of the absorption of a large amount of thyroidal secretion, which has either escaped into the wound from the cut surface of the glaiid, or has been driven out of the gland into the blood-stream by pressure ex- erted on it during the operation, as the symp- toms are the same as those of severe thyroidism produced by large doses of thyroid extract. In operations on other organs also there is a considerable risk of death, as in a case recorded by Mr. J. D. Harris of Exeter, in which a woman aged forty-six, with exophthalmic goitre, died from cardiac failure sixty-eight hours after removal of the left breast under ether. Diagnosis.—In a well-marked case the pres- ence of the primary symptoms of exophthalmos, enlarged thyroid gland, and frequent pulse with probably tremors, general nervousness and emaciation, at once suggests the diagnosis. In some of the ill-developed varieties which have already been described the diagnosis is more difficult. An important feature, however, is the constant presence of a quick pulse, the presence of which without some obvious cause, such as fever or cardiac disease, should always suggest the possibility of the presence of Graves' disease, and lead to a careful search for other symptoms. In these cases the pulse is always frequent, and thus differs from that of a patient with paroxysmal attacks of tachycardia, whose pulse-rate falls to the normal between the attacks. In a few cases there may be no obvious en- largement of the thyroid gland; in some of these cases, however, a careful examination reveals the fact that the gland is larger than in health, or there is a history of a previous enlargement which has subsided. In the absence of exophthalmos and other earlier symptoms the diagnosis is indicated by the cardiac and nervous symptoms. Slight cases with an enlarged thyroid gland can be distinguished from cases of moderate parenchy- matous goitre by the fact that the latter are not accompanied by any nervous or cardiac symptoms. It is important, however, to re- member that exophthalmic goitre may develop in a patient who has previously had a simple goitre without general symptoms; in such cases the history shows that the goitre has preceded the onset of the other symptoms by a long period of months or even years. Prognosis.—At the beginning of exophthalmic goitre prognosis is a difficult matter. It is more favourable in women than in men. The circumstances of the patient must also be taken into account, as the prognosis is certainly better in those who can lead a quiet, easy life and have proper attention, than in those who are obliged to work when not really fit to do so, and are unable to afford the many accessories which can make the illness so much more tolerable. In such a prolonged disease the patient is often lost sight of, so that it is difficult to obtain complete records of a series of cases. Dr. W. M. Ord and Dr. Hector Mackenzie have tabulated 57 cases, including 24 observed by Dr. R. T. Williamson, in which the disease had lasted more than five years or ended fatally. Of these, 14 died, 10 recovered completely, and 11 almost completely. In 13 there was con- siderable, and in 4 slight improvement; 4 re- mained unaltered, and the I'emaining patient was alive, but the condition was not known. Taking slight and severe cases together, from one-third to one-half may be expected either to recover completely or to such an extent that the remaining symptoms are scarcely noticed. About one-quarter of the cases succumb to the disease. The onset of oedema, dyspnoea, and other signs of cardiac failure indicate that the patient is in danger, and if they continue to increase in spite of complete rest and treatment the prog- nosis is very grave.