THYROID GLAND, MEDICAL SECTION Repeated vomiting and severe diarrhoea are also serious symptoms, for if they continue, the patient soon dies from exhaustion. Pathological Anatomy.—There is general emaciation, and but little subcutaneous fat remains. The small amount of fat in the body is in striking contrast to the excess of fat which is often found in the orbit, and which is most probably the cause of the exophthalmos. Thyroid Gland.—The thyroid gland is uni- formly enlarged except in cases of long standing, in which there may be some irregularity in outline owing to the development of fibrosis in some parts of it. The superficial veins are large, and in well-developed cases the arteries are dilated and tortuous. The number of alveoli is increased owing to the enlargement of the gland, and in many of the alveoli the secretory surface is increased by folding of the wall, so that the lumen is diminished and has an irregular outline. The epithelial cells them- selves are large and columnar in shape, instead of being flat or cubical as in the normal gland. The secretion seen in the alveoli is smaller in amount, is less viscid, and stains less deeply than in health. In cases of long duration there may be more or less fibrosis. Thymus Gland.—The thymus is generally persistent and may be increased in size. Nervous System.—Various changes have been described in various parts of the nervous system, but none of them are constant or even frequent. Htemorrhages have been described in the medulla oblongata by Hale White, by Green- field, and by Grainger Stewart and Gibson. On the other hand, many observers have found no change of any kind in the medulla, and Mobius considers that, as a rule, no lesion is found in this situation. No changes of importance have been found in either the brain or spinal cord. Some ob- servers have described changes, such as leuco- cytic infiltration and degeneration of nerve-cells, in the cervical sympathetic ganglia. Similar changes have, however, been found both in healthy subjects and in other diseases, and so have no pathological importance. The heart may be unaltered. In some cases there may be some dilatation and hypertrophy of the ventricular walls. Valvular lesions are only occasionally found. Pathology.—The pathology of exophthalmic goitre is of much interest, and is still a matter for discussion We shall, however, endeavour to indicate what seems the most probable ex- planation of the phenomena of the disease in the present state of our knowledge. We have seen that there is no constant lesion of the nervous system to be found, so that we must look elsewhere for a primary lesion. The most obviously and constantly aff'ected organ is the thyroid gland, and this we believe to be the essential lesion of the disease. Shortly stated, we believe the symptoms to be due to the exces- sive formation by the thyroid gland of secretion, which may or may not be normal in character, which being carried into the general blood-stream, so acts upon the nervous and circulatory systems as to produce the familiar symptoms of the disease. In the thyroid gland the structure suggests a great increase in secretory activity, for not only is the gland enlarged as a whole, but the plica- tion of the alveolar wall gives an increased secretory surface, while the individual epithelial cells are also increased in size. It is evident that these structural changes indicate increased activity, for in the monkey when one lobe of the gland is removed the other undergoes compensating hypertrophy, and simi- lar folding of the alveolar wall associated with increased size of the epithelial cells is found. In man, large doses of thyroid extract produce a condition known as thyroidism, in which the symptoms are remarkably like those of exoph- thalmic goitre. The earliest symptom is accelera- tion of the pulse. The pulse-rate may be in- creased to 100, 120, or even 130, and the patient often complains of palpitation. There may be slight tremor of the hands, and the skin becomes moist and flushed. If the large doses are con- tinued, emaciation takes place in some cases. In exceptional cases, when such large quantities have been taken as to cause toxic symptoms, fever, diarrhoea, insomnia, restlessness, polyuria, glycosuria, albuminuria, rapid respiration, and even exophthalmos have been observed. We have already seen that myxoedema is due to loss of thyroidal secretion, so that exoph- thalmic goitre being due to the opposite condi- tion of excess of secretion, presents also a con- trast in symptoms. In the former there is atrophy of the thyroid gland, with increase of weight, dry skin, absence of perspiration, sub- normal tempei-ature, placid temper, and slow pulse; in the latter, hypertrophy of the thyroid gland, loss of weight, moist skin, excessive per- spiration, normal or raised temperature, nervous- ness, excitability, and quick pulse. A further point of interest is that exoph- thalmic goitre may subside and be followed at once or after an interval by myxoedema. The progressive fibrosis of the thyroid gland leads to removal of the symptoms of exophthalmic goitre in the first place, but in its later stages causes thyroidal atrophy and myxoedema. No case has been recorded in which exophthalmic goitre has developed after myxoedema. These facts all strongly support the theory we have stated above, as the most reasonable explanation of the pathology of the disease. Treatment.—In exophthalmic goitre, what- ever the medicinal treatment may be, the mode of life which the patient is able to adopt is a matter of great importance. We may, therefore,