579 X-RAYS r advantage of using iron is that its spectrum is richer in ultra violet rays. Dr Strubel's lamp possesses the further advantage of requiring less resistance in the circuit and of giving double the light; it consists of two small arc lights placed compactly together; as each light re- quires about 45 volts' pressure, the two will require 90 volts, so that they can be run on a 100-volt circuit with but little added resistance. The British Medical Joiir., 4th Jan. 1902, quoting a German authority, states "that Dr. Bang's lamp need not be larger than an ordinary tablespoon, compressing and supporting apparatus included, and that its cost would be about <£3. While the light from an ordi- nary arc lamp can kill cultures of the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus in 4| minutes, the light of Dr. Bang's lamp, imder FIG. 21.—Dr. Bang's similar conditions, can kill s?S7o.'" them in less than four seconds, thus giving a bactericidal power sixty times stronger than that of the ordinary arc lamp. With his apparatus in both healthy and lupoid skins a marked light erythema of many days' duration may be produced with five amperes of current over an area 4 inches square in five or even in three minutes, and as strong as that hitherto obtainable with sixty amperes of current (original Finsen light) in seventy-five minutes." The disadvantage of all the arc light sources Fig. 22.—Dr. strubel's lamp. Schall. of the Finsen rays is that their sources radiate not only the Finsen rays, but the whole of the rest of the spectrum as well, including the infra red or radiant heat rays, and for this reason the light has to be cooled by running water, and the water and quartz windows absorb an ap- preciable quantity of the active Finsen rays, and their interposition also prevents the dis- eased area from being brought quite close to the light. What is required is a cold source of light which radiates only the blue violet and ultra violet rays, and the light of a condenser spark more nearly answers this purpose. This spark is obtained by joining the outer and inner coatings of a condenser to the secondary ter- minals of a large induction coil, and causing the condenser to discharge between two iron electrodes. This lamp—introduced by Prof. Gorl (Fig. 23)—can be obtained from Schall, 55 Wigmore Street, or from Leslie Miller, 93 Hatton Garden, E.G. The lamp is contained in a metal case, and its open end is closed with a diaphragm of rock salt, ice, or quartz which is pressed against the affected area. The author's experi- ments on the transparency and opacity of bodies to ultra violet light showed that pure polished rock salt was more transparent than either quartz or ice (Turner's Medical Electricity^ 3rd edition, p. 366). Glass, mica, ebonite, and gelatine are opaque; the opacity of glass is to be particularly noted ; ultra violet rays may be present in abundance inside a Rontgen ray tube, but they will all be stopped by the glass. Rock salt is twice as transparent as ice, and from twenty to thirty times as trans- parent as quartz. The rock salt should be cut into the form of a convex lens and should be polished. It must be kept quite dry ; a film of moisture upon it destroys both its trans- parency and its polish. It may be cleaned with absolute alcohol and polished with chamois leather. An objection to the use of this lamp is the crackling noise of the spark discharges ; it is also said that its action is more superficial than that of the arc light; despite of that we have reduced the exposure with this lamp to from two and a half to five minutes in the electrical department of the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh. The Finsen light has been used chiefly in the treatment of lupus (see p. 575) ; that it is a specific for superficial cases of lupus vulgaris there can be no longer any doubt, hundreds of such cases are on record. The disadvantage is the great length of time required in the treat- ment, and the smallness of the area exposed at one time. In consequence of these drawbacks there is a strong tendency to treat cases of lupus with the Rontgen rays instead of with the Finsen light (see p. 575), the area treated is much larger, and the time required and the expense less. To the employment of the Rontgen rays there is, however, attached the risk of a dermatitis, while such a sequela is not to be feared with the use of the light. Care must be taken in treating cases with the Fig. 23.—Condenser spark lamp. Turner's Med. Electricity.