TUBERCULOSIS 147 cannot otherwise explain them save on the sup- position that impure and infected milk is an essential factor in the production of abdominal tuberculosis in young children. Not all these cases, it is true, should be regarded as due to milk. The habit of expectoration by adults, the creeping habits of children, their liability to put everything into the mouth, lead to a very great possibility of infection with human bacilli through the digestive tract. But ad- mitting this, and admitting even that the hygiene of the house in Great Britain has not improved at the same rate as has the hygiene of the factory and of work-places in general— an improvement which is the main cause of the decrease in tuberculosis in adults in Great Britain—if mesenteric tuberculosis were in the main due to infection with human tubercle bacilli, then, with the lessening of tuberculosis in adults, there ought certainly to be a corre- sponding diminution in the number of cases of tabes mesenterica in children, and this has not occurred. {Canadian Blue-Book, A. 1902. Ses- sional Taper, No. 15, p. 126.) The examination of post-mortem records in Hospitals for Children and statistics based on these give important information. It has been long taught and believed that, in children, ingestion tuberculosis was by far the commoner form in which the disease occurred. That this is not so has been abundantly proved by recent statistics. These statistics, obtained from the post-mortem room, must of course not be taken as indicating the relative prevalence of inhalation and ingestion tuberculosis during life, the proportion of ingestion cases being almost certainly higher from the reasons al- ready given. In the Hospital for Sick Children in Great Ormonde Street, London, Dr. George Still was able to determine the channel of infection with some degree of certainty in 216 cases, and of these he refers 29'1 per cent to alimentary tuberculosis, the bacillus entering through the intestine. In the remainder, invasion had most probably taken place through some part of the respiratory passages. In an investigation undertaken in 1899, in ignorance of the simultaneous work of Dr. Still, but with the same idea in view, the ascertaining of the proper proportion of inhalation to inges- tion tuberculosis, and feeling that the ratio of ingestion tuberculosis had been placed too high, the writer examined the post-mortem records of the Royal Hospital for Sick Children in Edinburgh for a period of about sixteen and a half years. Out of 855 post-mortems, he found that 355 were for tuberculosis. Out of these 355 cases, thanks to the excellent manner in which the records had been kept, he was able with some certainty to make out the primary focus in 331 cases. Of these 331, 93, or 28-1 per cent, had to be referred to alimentary or ingestion tuberculosis. The result shows a remarkable agreement with that obtained in- dependently by Dr. Still, and this circumstance increases its importance. In all these cases the bacilli had entered by some part of the alimentary tract, including the pharynx and tonsils. Examining the condition of the intestine in relation to that of the mesenteric glands, the following results were brought out:—Forty-five cases showed ulceration of the intestines prior to affection of the glands; 12 showed caseation and matting of the glands apparently of older date than the condition in the intestine, the latter being quite healthy in 5 cases. (Edin. Hospital Reports, 1900.) In this connection we must again quote Sims Woodhead: "In 14 out of 127 cases the mesenteric glands only were found affected. No tubercle was found elsewhere in the body. In these cases the glands had become calcified. There was no ulceration or cicatrisation in the intestine; no peritonitis ; no secondary tuber- culosis in any other part of the body; so that the tuberculosis in the mesenteric glands must be looked on as the primary lesion." (Lancet, 1888.) Again, though Bollinger and others consider the intestine very resistant to infection, " the lymphoid structures in the alimentary tract are very vulnerable. They appear to be more readily denuded of their epithelium than other portions of the tract, and in addition, lympho- cytes passing into them can take with them virulent tubercle bacilli" which give rise to ulceration in the lymphoid structures, or passing through them, to tuberculous adenitis of the mesenteric glands secondary to or preceding the intestinal ulceration. (Sims Woodhead, loc. cit.) Bollinger also states that " tixberculosis of the peritoneal lymphatic glands occurs oftener in children than in adults, the cause for which is probably to be sought for in the feeding of young children with the milk of tuberculous cows." After the meeting of the Tuberculosis Congress, the writer took the opportunity of examining his records at the Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh, covering the period from Jxme 1899 to August 1901, and found that out of 150 post-mortems 43 were for tuberculosis, and of these 11 or 25'6 per cent were alimentary in origin, thus affording still further proof of the accuracy of the former observations. He tried carefully to exclude any cases in which the etiology was in the least doubtful. Adding these 43 cases to the 331 cases formerly reported, we have a total of 374 cases, and of these 104 or 27'8 per cent were alimentary in origin. Other observers furnish somewhat similar