156 TUMOURS due to the presence of a pigment called melanin. The melano-sarcomata may consist of spindle or round cells, and always arise from pigmented tracts of skin, and especially the black moles and congenital pigmented warts ; but the common situation is the uveal tract of the eyeball. The colour of melano-sarcomata varies greatly ] some only contain faint traces of pig- ment, whereas others are inky black. There is probably nothing more remarkable in the whole of Oncology than these pigmented tumours; an individual may have an area of the skin less than an inch square occupied by a black mole which was present at birth. This has never caused any inconvenience, and then when he has arrived at the age of fifty or perhaps seventy it begins to enlarge, it may even pulsate; then the adjacent lymph glands are noticed to be enlarging, and in a few months he has melanotic nodules in skin, lungs, liver, and other organs, and daily discharges large quantities of the pigment melanin in the urine. Of the cause of this mysterious condition noth- ing—absolutely nothing is known. There is an excessively rare variety of melanotic tumour which occurs in the eyeball, arising from the ciliary glands detected by Teacher Collins. It has the characters of a typical carcinoma. Melano-sarcomata illustrate, too, a fact in con- nection with the tissue prototypes of tumours. The connective tissue underlying a mole has a characteristic alveolar arrangement, and this is also manifested in many of the tumours, and by some writers has been made into a separate species as alveolar sarcoma. Sarcomata are distinguishad from the other chief genera of connective-tissue tumours in that they rarely possess capsules, and when they do it is generally a spurious encapsulation depending on environment, such as when they arise in the eyeball, medullary cavity of a bone, or in the sinus of the kidney. Having no re- straining capsule they are able to infiltrate the adjacent tissues. The vascularity of sarcomata varies; in all the circulation is mainly capillary, and the very soft, quickly growing and badly organised round- celled species often have such an abundant supply of arterial blood that they distinctly pulsate. Sarcomata of the spindle-celled kind grow slowly, and are not so rich in blood-vessels ; but all the species lack lymphatics. The in- timate relation of sarcomata to the blood-vessels has an important relation to the distribution of sarcoma cells to other parts of the body; for example, the cells from the tumour find their way into the venules which return the blood into the venous trunks and are directly conveyed as minute emboli to the lungs ; these cells are arrested in the pulmonary capillaries and they act as grafts, retain their vitality, and form what is known as secondary nodules or deposits. There is no limit to the number of these secondary deposits, and a hundred or more may be counted in the lungs. When the primary sarcoma is situated in a part from which the venous blood enters the portal circula- tion the emigrant cells from the tumour are received by the capillaries of the liver, and thus the secondary nodules are found in the territory of the portal circulation and especially in the liver. This remarkable phenomenon is known as dissemination, and it is one of the most dangerous features displayed by malignant tumours. The fact that sarcomata are usually unencap- suled allows the cells of the tumour to permeate or infiltrate the adjacent tissues, and this peculi- arity becomes extremely dangerous when the sarcoma arises in the midst of important structures. Thus in the mediastinum an in- filtrating tumour may involve the oesophagus, trachea, lung, pneumogastric nerves, pleura, pericardium, vena cava or the aorta. A sarcoma of the kidney is very liable to creep into the renal vein, and a prolongation of the tumour will extend into the inferior vena cava; a sarcoma of the thyroid gland may open into the trachea or the internal jugular vein. This infiltrating property of a sarcoma, apart from its effect upon neighbouring organs, has an important bearing on treatment. For example, when the sui-geon attempts to remove a sarcoma effectually it is of the utmost import- ance to cut well wide of it, for if small portions of the tumour are left the sarcoma grows again from these remnants. When the tumour returns in this way it is spoken of as recurrence, and this is a common mode by which sarcomata manifests malignancy. There are few things which demonstrate the deadly nature of some of these tumours better than a sarcoma spring- ing from the periosteum of the femur. A youth will present himself with one of these tumours in the lower end of his bone, and it may be about the size of a goose's egg. The limb is amputated at the hip joint, and in a few months the sarcoma reappears in the stump and grows in a few months into a large bleeding mass and quickly destroys him. It is not an uncommon event for a sarcoma to appear in connection with the femur or the humerus and destroy life either by dissemination, or by recurrence after operation within a year of its detection. Although sarcomata as a genus are ubiqui- tous, nevertheless they occur in some situations more frequently than in others, and present some striking age-relations that are worth care- ful study. Take for example the eyeball: this sense organ is liable to two very distinct kinds of sarcoma. Before the age of twelve years, sarcomata arise in the retina and possess the minute structure of the sustentacular frame- work of the retina as it exists in the embryo.