138 TUBERCULOSIS Dr. Geo. Still found, at Great Ormonde Street, London, that in 63'8 per cent of his cases infection had probably taken place through the respiratory tract; in 29'1 per cent the alimentary tract had been primarily affected. Dr. Carr, out of 120 autopsies on tuberculous children at the Chelsea Children's Hospital, found that 16'7 per cent showed evidence of primary abdominal infection. Dr. Guthrie, at Paddington Green Children's Hospital, found in a series of 77 cases that 19 of these, or 26 per cent, had been infected through the intestine. Kossel found in 14 cases of tuberculosis in children, varying in age from one and a half to ten years, that the primary focus in 4 cases was in the mesenteric glands. There was no symptom of this during life. Heller and Hueppe give similar evidence. These figures, which receive additional value from the approximate results arrived at by widely separated and independent observers, atfoi'd a strong ground on which to rest in refusing to accept Koch's dictum that tubercu- losis is practically never ingestive in origin. Even allowing a wide margin for error, we must remember that, after all, these are percentages of deaths from tuberculosis and do not indicate the frequency of abdominal tuber- culosis in childhood during life. Many cases of abdominal tuberculosis recover; some cannot be diagnosed with certainty during life, and these with kindred cases must necessarily bring up the percentage of cases of ingestion tubercu- losis. In this country, therefore, we cannot accept statistics from other countries as applicable to our own circumstances. So long as our population prefers to drink its milk raw this danger will remain, and indi- viduals who are susceptible will be exposed to the dangers of infection through the alimentary tract. The bacilli may invade the skin, either pro- ducing a local tuberculosis—lupus or scrofulo- derma—or passing on and attacking the glands. Frequently, as for example in tuberculosis of bones and joints, or of epididymis, one cannot detect the point of invasion. Again, even in well-marked thoracic or abdominal tuberculosis it is impossible to tell the point of invasion. In an apparently un- doubted respiratory tuberculosis the bacilli may have entered through some part of the ali- mentary tract, and by circuitous routes arrived at the bronchial glands or lungs, setting up tuberculosis there. The reverse may also take place, so that the figures in statistics of primary respiratory or alimentary tuberculosis must be looked on as approximate only. Channels of Spread in the Body.—1. Along Epithelial Canals and Surfaces.—This is one of the most important means of spread, particularly in the air-passages and alimentary system. It explains why pulmonary tubercu- losis is such a progressive and fatal disease. In the lungs it generally begins at one focus or group of foci. These break down, and bacilli and softened caseous material are discharged into bronchi. During breathing and coughing this gets into other bronchi, setting up secon- dary foci. Caseation is usually a characteristic of tuberculosis which spreads by way of the bronchi. Liberated bacilli may be carried to the trachea and lodge in the larynx, or may even be carried to and infect the tongue. They may be swallowed and affect the mucous membrane of small or large intestine, the sputum passing through the stomach undestroyed. A similar spread occurs in genito-urinary system as already described. 2. Lymphatics.—Nodules may spread along the lymphatic vessels and spaces in lungs, nerves, cerebral membranes, intestine. A tuberculous peritonitis may spread through the lymphatic spaces of the diaphragm to pleura and thence to lung. In the lung a tuberculosis spreading along lymphatics tends to cause fibrous formation with giant cells. Tubercle may attack the thoracic duct. 3. Blood-vessels.—Spread takes place chiefly by way of veins, as demonstrated by Weigert, though Ponfick has shown that the walls of arteries may be invaded in exactly the same way. If a tuberculous focus ruptures into the lumen of a vein the organisms are carried to the lungs, setting up tuberculosis there. They may pass through the lungs and set up a general tuberculosis. Tubercle nodules are constantly forming in the walls of capillaries and veins. Generally they become sealed up by thrombosis or by proliferation of the endo- thelial cells, so that dissemination does not take place. General tuberculosis can only occur when a focus breaks into a still pervious vessel. Mixed Infection in Tuberculosis It has for some time been urged that the tubercle bacillus is not able of itself to produce all the lesions met with in the disease called tuberculosis. The late Professor Kanthack wrote very strongly against the idea that each infectious disease depended on one specific germ, and that all other organisms found in the tissues were unimportant so far as the etiology of the disease was concerned. He believed that most of the manifestations of these diseases, for example, pneumonia, cholera, etc., are due to a mixed infection; the special organism requiring the assistance of others accompanying it to pave the way or produce a suitable nidus for its development. In tuberculosis, as in these diseases, the doctrine of mixed infection has strong support.