573 X-RAYS they contain pus, when they are uniformly dark. According to Dr. Hugh Walsham an earlier diagnosis of the presence of tubercle can be made by the Rontgen rays than by ordinary physical signs. Amongst other conditions which can be noticed are fibroid phthisis, emphysema, pleurisy with effusion, intra- thoracic tumours, and displacement of the heart and liver. The smallness of the heart and the diminished excursion of the diaphragm in phthisis should be noted. Screen examinations are more valuable than photography in many of these cases, particularly in the differential diagnosis of aneurysm (Fig. 17), in which case a uniform pulsation may be seen, the margin of the shadow can be compared with the dull area, the patient can be examined at once both from the front and from the back and obliquely. Photography by X-rays is a more difficult and troublesome operation. There is the question of the distance of the tube, the position of the tube and plate, and the length of the exposure ; further, there is the difficulty of proper develop- ment. Nothing but practice in these procedures will give success- ful results. To take the case of the photography of renal calculi; it will be seen by reference to the table on page 565 that oxalates and phosphates will be most easily shown. Mr. W. H. Shenton has published in Guy's Hospital Reports an analysis of 200 of such photographs with the following results :— Cases in which the rays and surgeon found calculi, 28. Cases in which the surgeon found calculi, but the rays did not, 8. Cases stated not to have calculi by the rays, and operated on with negative results, 11. Cases in which the rays found calculi and the surgeon did not, 2. In 39 cases the rays were correct, and in 8 they were wrong. Mr. Shenton's technique is to take the photo- graph in the prone position with the tube underneath the couch and the negative on the patient's back. A preliminary use of the screen is made, the tube is placed six inches from the abdomen, and an exposure of a minute or less is given. The author's practice in the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary is as follows :—The patient must first be prepared by having the bowels thoroughly emptied, he is then placed in the supine posi- tion with the negative under his back, the centre of the negative should be about under the umbilicus; the respiratory movements of the abdominal contents are limited by a light flannel binder, the anode of the tube is placed over the umbilicus and about 8 inches away, and an exposure of two minutes is given. It Fig. 17.—Aneurysm of ascending aorta. is better, if possible, to take three negatives, and depending upon the stoutness of the patient, to give the first an exposure of one minute, the second of two, and the third of three minutes. The patient's knees should be brought up into a vertical position, and a medium or somewhat soft tube used. For the hip-joint a harder tube (for an adult) and a longer exposure of from three to five minutes are required. The negative should be supported in a case or on a flat board. Fluorescent screens to shorten exposures have been used, and are frequently eulogised by dealers, but are unreliable and give granular negatives with want of sharp definition. Most operators, therefore, avoid them. They are generally made of finely powdered tungstate of