471 VISCERAL PAIN pressed between the thumb and forefinger. By this procedure we can elicit exalted tenderness, when the surface of the skin shows no increased sensitiveness. This deep cutaneous tenderness is always present with the superficial, and extends over a greater area than the superficial. Thus if one first map out an area of hyper- aesthesia by gently stroking with a pin-head, then map out the area by gently pinching the whole skin, the latter area will be found to be more extensive and to embrace the former area. Another point to be made out is the fact that the borders of these areas are ill defined. In mapping out the borders one finds that the patient has sometimes difliculty in saying whether the skin tenderness is increased or not. Sometimes, again, while the patient has no doubt as to the increased sensitiveness, on again testing the same place after a few minutes the patient confidently asserts that the same place is not hyperaesthetic. While the edges of a given patch of hypersesthesia are variable, the centre is usually invariable in its manifestation of increased sensibility. This same variability of the edges of a hypersesthetic area is also present in the hyperaesthesia due to disease and to injury of the spinal cord itself. The reason is probably due to the fact that, as has been shown by Sherrington, neighbouring nerves overlap in their distribution, so that the same piece of skin is supplied by more than one nerve, and it is only when the centres of two neighbouring nerves are aff"ected that an area of skin shows lasting hypersesthesia. The areas of hypereesthesia, besides being of doubtful extent, are also of very irregular dis- tribution. It is seldom that one gets the same exact distribution of hypersesthesia in two in- dividuals suff'ering from the same complaint. Since I first drew attention to the occurrence of hypersesthesia as a diagnostic sign in visceral disease, an attempt has been made to map out the greater part of the body into areas supposed to represent the peripheral distribution of in- dividual sensory nerves, by means of the hyper- sesthesia present in visceral disease. But if these areas be carefully studied they will be found to aff'ord no safe guide for such accurate delimitation. Hypersesthetic areas undoubtedly occur in the field supplied by spinal nerves whose centres are associated with the sympa- thetic or other nerves supplying the viscera affected. But it is doubtful if a single nerve in its entire distribution is ever alone affected. The stimulation from the viscera seems to affect portions of the centres of several nerves that supply the same or contiguous areas of skin. IX. Muscular HrPEBiESTHESiA and Muscular Contraction.—It is only in recent years that muscles have been demonstrated to be provided with sensory nerves, notwithstanding the fact that hypersesthesia of the muscles is a common and readily demonstrated symptom. In nearly all cases exhibiting cutaneous hypersesthesia, muscular hypersesthesia is also present. Mus- cular hypersesthesia in such cases is not usually easily demonstrated, because pain is at the same time evoked by pressure on the skin when the muscle is stimulated. But a large number of cases which show no cutaneous hypersesthesia readily show extreme tenderness when the muscle is stimulated. This muscular tenderness is often present with a readiness to contract when stimulated. The symptoms of muscular hypersesthesia and muscular contraction are of much more frequent occurrence and of more clinical value than the cutaneous hypersesthesia. They appear after an acute attack of pain, as after an attack of biliary colic, or they may be present in the absence of severe pains, where the patient complains only of a soreness when the muscles are pressed upon or when they are called into action, as in coughing or on taking a deep breath. In pleurisy the severe stabbing pain that is occasioned by deep breathing is due to the violent or spasmodic contraction of the hypersensitive intercostal muscles. Ex- amination of these conditions of the muscles is best carried out in the broad muscular sheets that form the abdominal wall. These muscles possess the faculty of tonically contracting in their entirety or in sections. When all the muscles are contracted one feels the abdomen hard like a board. When only a small portion of the muscle is contracted, as in the case of a portion of the rectus muscle, between two intermuscular septa, the contracted muscle feels like a hard tumour in the abdomen. A similar deceptive feeling occurs when a piece of the internal oblique in the iliac region is contracted. In addition to these contractions, the muscle is always more or less tender. One can often observe that a muscle may be but slightly con- tracted when very gentle pressure is applied, and it may at once become hard and board-like on increasing the pressure. The muscle being at the same time hypersensitive, the increased pressure calls forth the symptom of pain. It is really this painful stimulation of the abdominal wall that observers so frequently mistake for the tenderness of the underlying viscera. Thus an enlarged liver, such as occurs in advanced heart failure, seems extremely sensitive to gentle pressure. If, however, one is able to lift gently a piece of the muscle away from the organ in suitable cases, by inserting the finger into the umbilicus, and gradually compress the muscle, the tenderness will be found to be in the muscle. Or, after carefully mapping out the lower border of the liver, the tenderness will be found to extend over a greater area than the liver. This tenderness of the muscles of the ab- dominal wall is often mistaken for local peri- tonitis. One finds frequent statements to that eff'ect in recent text-books. I have known a very experienced surgeon diagnose a local peri-