VISCERAL PAIN 477 nerves supplying the heart, viz. the sym- pathetic and the vagus. The sympathetic nerve - supply is associated with the upper dorsal spinal nerves, and it is in the field of distribution of these nerves that the most typical sensory symptoms are shown. Thus the most common site of the pain is over the chest, across the middle line, or in the left side, sometimes as far out as the shaded area in Fig. 1. From here the pain radiates usually upwards to the axilla and down the left arm. The shaded area in Fig. 1 shows the site of pain and hypersesthesia of skin after the first attack of angina pectoris in one case. The shaded area in Fig. 2 shows the area of pain and hypersesthesia after the attacks had in- creased in frequency and in severity. It will be noted that the inner side of the right elbow had become also hypersesthetic and the patient felt the pain here also. On the whole, hypersesthesia is not common after attacks of angina pectoris, some of the most severe cases showing no tenderness of any part of the chest wall. But the distribution of the pain has a very striking resemblance to the areas found hypersesthetic in certain equally typical cases. In rare cases the pain may be entirely limited to the left arm. The pain is usually assumed to be in the heart when it is limited to the chest. Seeing that it is continuous with the spreading of the pain to remote parts, as the left arm, and that it is associated at times with demonstrable hypersesthesia of the external body wall, it seems more reasonable to assume its situation to be in the nerves thus rendered hypersesthetic. It is sometimes entirely limited to the arm, and one of the most typical cases of angina pectoris that I ever saw had the pain entirely limited to the left forearm. Again, the pain may be limited entirely to the epigastrium. The pain may be situated in other portions of the field of supply of these nerves, as the side or back of the chest. In certain heart cases a field of pain and muscular tenderness is found to occur in the neck, the top of the shoulder, and the back of the head on the left side. When the sterno- mastoid or the upper border of the trapezius muscle is highly pinched, tenderness, some- times exquisite, is complained of by the patient. I have observed cases where this tenderness was almost the only symptom beyond weakness in cases of heart failure, and the patient's recovery was coincident with a diminution and ultimate disappearance of this tenderness. This field of pain and tenderness is probably occasioned by a stimulus passing upwards by the vagus nerve. The origin of the vagus and spinal accessory nerves are so closely associated that one is forced to conclude that the stimulus proceeding by the one has affected either the spinal acces- sory nerve itself or the sensory nerves associated with it in its distribution. (b) Serous Membranes. — I have already pointed out that the tunica vaginalis is the only serous membrane that is supplied by a spinal sensory nerve. Serous membranes lining the great cavities of the abdomen, thorax, or skull are insensitive to the ordinary means of stimu- lation. Pain and other sensory symptoms when evoked can be demonstrated to be present only in the tissues forming the external body wall exclusive of the serous membranes. Peritonitis.—The pain and tenderness in this complaint can readily be demonstrated to exist either in the skin or muscles. In acute peri- tonitis the patient assumes a characteristic attitude—the abdomen is kept rigid by the con- tracted muscles, the legs are drawn up, and the respiration is almost entirely thoracic. There may be the most extreme tenderness on touch- FIG. 8.—The shaded area shows the distribution of the superficial cutaneous hypereesthesia in a case of acute peritonitis. ing the abdomen. On careful examination this is found to be due to superficial cutaneous hypersesthesia, and it may extend some distance beyond the limits of the peritoneum. Thus Fig. 8 shows the distribution of this hyper- Eesthesia in a patient suff'ering from acute peritonitis following upon the rupture of a gastric vilcer into the peritoneal cavity. It is seen that the hypersesthesia not only extends up into the chest, but invades to a slight extent the skin of the thigh. In the absence of the super- ficial cutaneous hypersesthesia one can readily demonstrate that the tenderness on pressure in peritonitis is either in the deeper skin or in the muscles. If one gently lifts a portion of either of these structures away from the peritoneum by deftly inserting the finger into the um- bilicus, and then applying pressure, the chai-- acteristic pain is felt. In other cases where the muscle is not strongly contracted it can be