VISCERAL PAIN 472 tonitis after an attack of gall-stone colic because of this muscular tenderness. Yet this tender- ness was present not only in the muscles of the abdominal wall, but extended to the muscles in the thorax, as high as the pectoralis major. So tender, indeed, may the muscles of the right side of the thorax become after an attack of gall-stone, that I have seen it ascribed to an attack of pleurisy. X. The Spreading of Symptoms.—The spread- ing of the stimulus to nerve centres in the spinal cord has been incidentally alluded to in the case of heart and renal pains, and illustrated in Figs. 1, 2, and 3. This spreading may affect other than sensory nerves. Thus muscular spasm may be set up in parts more or less remote, and give rise to misleading symptoms. In a severe case of renal colic due to a calculus in the pelvis of the kidney or in the ureter, the whole of the abdominal muscles may be thrown into strong contractions. Not only may the muscles forming the anterior abdominal wall be affected, but the sphincters may become strongly contracted, the result being that neither flatus nor fceces can be passed. After a few days the abdomen may become so distended that there is presented a variety of symptoms closely re- sembling those of obstruction of the bowel. Careful attention to the history of the case and to the site of the pain will aid in arriving at a correct conclusion. The spreading of the stimulus to the sensory nerves may be revealed in other ways than by cutaneous and muscular hypersesthesia. So sensitive do the centres of the spinal nerves become, that however the stimulus reaches them pain is evoked. Thus after an attack of gall-stone colic, ingestion of the food into the stomach sometimes causes great pain referred to the epigastrium. The explanation seems to be that the centres of the sensory nerves in the spinal cord are so extremely sensitive that any stimulus reaching them evokes the sensation of pain. The ingestion of food sends a stimulus, probably by the sympathetic, to the spinal cord, and this, which under ordinary circumstances gives rise to painless stimulation, now produces the symptom of pain, just in the manner that a light touch to the hypersesthetic skin gives rise to a sensation of pain. It is a matter of common experience to find organs remote from the part stimulated affected in their functions. Thus nausea and vomiting are common in labour, in renal and hepatic colic. The secre- tion of glands may be affected, as in the intense salivation sometimes present in angina pectoris. While the symptoms are often limited to one side of the body, the stimulus may affect the spinal roots supplying the opposite side. Thus the heart pain sometimes radiates to the right arm (see Fig. 2). XI. Tender Nerves and Tender Spines.— The small nerve-trunks running to the regions in which pain is felt may become very tender to pressure. As several of these have a per- manent situation and are readily accessible to pressure, the points of tenderness have some- times a diagnostic significance. Thus a branch of the ninth dorsal nerve as it pierces the sheath of the right rectus muscles two inches from the middle line, and a little higher than the level of the umbilicus (Fig. 4), is frequently sensitive in gall-stone colic. In cases of doubt I have come to look upon it as almost diagnostic of that disease. So also a twig of the twelfth dorsal nerve as it crosses the iliac crest three inches behind the anterior superior iliac spine is frequently very tender in renal colic due to a calculus. A small twig from the first dorsal nerve (the internal anterior thoracic) is some- Flu. i.—The shaded area shows the distribution of hyperjesthesia in a case of gall-stone colic. The X indicates a spot very commonly tender to pressure in this complaint. times tender in heart affections as it courses over the second and third left ribs in the nipple line. Certain vertebral spines have a tendency to become tender on pressure, and to resemble the tenderness due to diseases of the vertebra. This spinal tenderness, when associated with a band of hypersesthesia, is sometimes mistaken for spinal disease. I have found the upper dorsal spines tender to pressure in heart disease, the fourth to seventh dorsal vertebra tender in affections of the stomach, and the sixth to the ninth tender in hepatic colic. This tenderness is not due to the pressure applied to hyper- sesthetic skin covering the spinous processes, for it is present when pressure is applied when neither the skin nor deeper tissues are hyper- aesthetic. XII. Visceral and Cutaneous Muscular Reflexes.—The muscles of the external body wall are influenced in a twofold manner by