527 WHOOPING-COUGH German writers held to the view that it was the result of primary affection of the bronchial lymph nodes producing pressure on the branches of the vagus, and thereby exciting reflex irrita- tion. The French school held strongly to the theory that it was essentially a catarrhal affec- tion of the respiratory tubes, complicated in severe cases by irritation of the central nervous system. Oppolzer considered the irritative cough was excited by foul secretions in the pulmonary alveoli. Letzerich was one of the first who made a step in advance of this, and advocated the view that the morbid catarrhal secretions contained inhaled spores which favoured decomposition and caused increased irritation. Finally, by a more or less general consensus of opinion the disease was classed among the zymotic group, and believed to be caused by a definite infection which localised itself in the first place in the air passages. It is interesting to note how through the theo- retical groping of centuries the true cause of the disease was gradually approached, and is now being worked out on the lines of bac- teriological investigation as applicable to the whole group of these diseases. Definition.—It may be defined as a con- tagious and infectious disease, the leading symp- tom of which is a spasmodic or convulsive cough, associated with a catarrhal condition of the mucous membrane of the respiratory tract, principally of the nasal, faucial, laryngeal, and tracheal surfaces, as well as the larger bronchi, but which may also extend to the smaller bronchial ramifications. The cough is essentially paroxysmal in character, and recurs at intervals more or less frequent, the patient being free from cough at other times. The cough when fully developed is highly charac- teristic, and consists of a rapid succession of expiratory efforts accompanied by spasm and narrowing, or it may be closure of the glottis, which is followed by relaxation of the spasm, the inspired air rushing in with a whooping sound. The cough is ended by expectoration of tenacious mucus, often accompanied by vomiting. The whooping sound is loud and distinct in proportion to the severity of the spasmodic effort, not so marked or sometimes absent when the cough is less severe and forcible. There is a liability to various com- plications to be afterwards referred to. No more concise or true definition of the disease has been given than by Cullen, who summarises in a few words its leading characteristics, " Morbus contagiosus, tussis convulsiva, stran- gulans, cum inspirations sonora, iterata, ssepe vomitus." Whooping-cough is essentially an epidemic disease, rarely occurring sporadically. No con- ditions, telluric, atmospheric, or seasonal, are known in any way to influence its spread, nor do we know whether the contagium has any habitat outside the body. It occurs over all quarters of the globe quite independent of climate, which seems to have no influence either in its spread or in regulating its in- ception. Season seems to have little or no influence in initiating or diffusing the disease, although in winter the epidemics are almost invariably attended by a larger mortality. This may probably be accounted for by the fact that hygienic conditions are less favourable at this season, the patients being unable to get out to the open air as frequently as in spring and summer. Sex as a predisposing cause seems to have a certain influence, girls being more susceptible than boys. Age has a powerful effect in causation. It is essentially a disease of childhood, although adults, are not exempt. Sti'ange to say, sucking infants seem to be less liable to it than older children. Statistics show that the period of greatest susceptibility is from two to five years. Cases have been met with where the foetus has contracted the disease in utero from the mother, the infants showing all the characteristic symptoms a few hours after birth. In the case of adults as of children, women are more liable to infection than men, pregnant women more particularly so. The relation of this disease to other epidemics is interesting. It is well known and universally recognised that whooping-cough epidemics fre- quently precede or succeed outbreaks of the exanthemata, specially of measles and chicken- pox. The disease may also coexist with any of these diseases, particularly measles. In such cases the complication is often of great gravity, and predisposes to a fatal result. Mortality.—-Whooping-cough is one of the most fatal diseases of early life, particularly during the period of infancy and imtil the third year. After this the mortality gradually diminishes with advancing age. The mortality tables in England over a series of years show an average of 2 per cent from this disease, and the Registrar-General brings out a'similar average for the last ten years in the eight principal towns of Scotland. The mortality in females always exceeds that in males. Previously healthy children of naturally sound constitution show a much smaller mortality than those of delicate constitution, or such as have been debilitated by previous disease. The fatality in the simple uncomplicated disease is small, complications generally being the cause of death. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology.—Uncom- plicated whooping-cough is rarely a fatal dis- ease. In those cases which have been attended with a fatal result little has been found except a catarrhal condition, more or less marked, of the upper air passages, particularly of the larynx, on the laryngeal surface of the epiglottis, and on the intra-arytenoid mucous membrane.