YELLOW FEVER 595 by these exclusively that the infection was first spread, and it was these who suffered most. Eight out of nine custom-house officers so engaged died of this disease, and scarcely less was the morality of those on guard at this store. The baggage store was clearly the primary focus of the infection, and it was equally evident that this focus was not established by the presence in it of a person sick of yellow fever. In what way did it become infected if not from contaminated baggage 1 How are we to explain the Madrid outbreak of 1878 if yellow fever cannot be transmitted by fomites? A body of troops returning from Cuba to Spain remained in perfect health during the voyage. On arriving at Madrid their baggage, which had not been opened from the time they left Cuba, was unpacked. A small outbreak of yellow fever followed, limited to the inhabitants of the district where the returned soldiers were quartered ; they themselves, being acclimatised, escaped. It was observed here, as at Gibraltar in 1829, and at Ascension in 1838, that the washerwomen who were employed to wash the soldiers' effects were amongst the first to be seized. To mention one other instance scarcely less free from ambiguity: a medical officer, M. Massola, who had been on duty at the yellow fever hospital and post-mortem rooms at Goree in 1878, was ordered to proceed to Bakel, a post on the Upper Senegal, 470 miles from Goree. He left on the 15th, and reached his destination on the 29th of July, and was assisted by a soldier attached to his service, belonging to the post, in unpacking his luggage, which contained the non-disinfected clothing he had been using in the hospital. On the 16th of August this soldier was seized with yellow fever, and in succession seven out of the eight Europeans at that remote post were attacked and died of the disease. Strain (Journal of Tropical Med., April 1899) relates several instances of yellow fever at Sao Paulo in the interior of Brazil, following the unpacking of boxes and cases from the infected port of Santos. If infected mosquitoes can be stowed away for months in the hold of a ship, it may be contended that there is no improba- bility in the supposition that they may be con- veyed in luggage, but this must be impossible for long distances, if it be the case, as Reed asserts, that the mosquito deprived of water dies within a few days. Some doubts must be entertained of the accounts of the germs lurking in clothing, bedding, sails, and other articles for periods of two or three years, or even longer ; but whatever explanation may ultimately prove correct, the transmissibility of the infection of yellow fever by fomites appears to be con- clusively established. Clinical History.—The attack is occasionally preceded, for a few hours or even days, by head- ache, giddiness, lassitude, loss of appetite, and gastric discomfort, but the cases in which pre- monitory symptoms are observed are compara- tively few. The invasion, which often occurs at night, is announced by a chill or rigor, violent in proportion to the impending attack, although it is well to bear in mind that in malignant cases the chill is more frequently absent. The temperature, which has already begun to rise before the chill, reaches from 102° to 104° F. within the first twenty-four hours. The pulse at this stage is fast, strong, and full, but even as early as the second day it begins to diminish in frequency and force, although the temperature persists or continues to rise. This want of correspondence between the pulse and tempera- ture is of considerable diagnostic value. The face is red or livid and swollen, the eyes brilliant and injected. Photophobia, pain in the eyeballs, distressing frontal or orbital head- ache, intense lumbar pains radiating towards the pelvis, and articular and muscular pains in the lower extremities, are the symptoms most complained of by the patient at this stage. From the onset there is a feeling of weight and pain in the epigastrium, with anorexia, nausea, a varying degree of thirst; and after a time, in all but the mildest cases, retching or vomiting. Vomiting usually makes its appear- ance on the second day, first of the contents of the stomach, then of a clear or bile-tinged acid fluid mixed with mucosities. The tongue is moist, contracted, coated with a white fur, and red at the tip and edges. The gums are often swollen and bleed readily. The urine is gener- ally reduced in quantity, is high-coloured, often turbid, acid in reaction, and from an early stage contains traces of albumin. The bowels are constipated. This state of things lasts for two, three, or four days, according to the gravity of the case. The fever, which is of the sub-continued type, now begins to fall. The pulse tends to regain its normal characters, and the conjunctivge often, at this stage, begin to assume a yellow tinge. A more or less marked amelioration takes place, which may end in recovery or be followed by grave symptoms. When recovery is about to ensue the nausea and vomiting abate, the appetite returns, the temperature falls, the urine becomes more abundant, and the albumin disappears. But the lull, instead of heralding recovery, may be but the prelude to the evolution of a new train of phenomena characteristic of the malady and of grave significance. This issue is to be feared if the gastric distress persists during the lull. There may now be a secondary rise of one or two degrees, or the temperature may persist about the point reached after the remission, or in the worst cases a rapid fall below the normal takes place with symptoms of collapse. It is during this second stage that jaundice, hgemorrhages, and algidity develop. The pulse sometimes becomes abnormally slow,