319 URTICARIA the face or the trunk. Strapping the child down to its crib is not a recommendable measure, as it only tends to intensify the irritation and restlessness. Uskow'S Theory.—The theory of the Russian school regarding the development and origin of leucocytes; almost all the varieties of leucocyte are developmental stages, the first being the small lymphocyte (originating in the lymph glands, bone marrow, and spleen), the second the large lymphocyte, the third the large mononuclear lymphocyte, the fourth the transi- tional form, the fifth the polynuclear neutrophile or mature cell, and the sixth and final form being the eosinophile leucocyte or over-ripe cell. Ustilag^O Seg^etum.—A parasitic fungus (smut) which makes flour and meal mouldy. Ustion.—To cauterise (Lat. uro, I burn). Utera.lg'ia,.—Pain in the uterus ; hyster- algia {q.v.). Uterine.—Belonging or relating to the uterus; e.g. the uterine appendages or annexa (Fallopian tubes and ovaries), uterine-fibroids (myomata growing in the uterus), uterine pro- lapse (downward displacement of the uterus), etc. *S'ee Uterus. Utero-.—In compound words utero- (Lat. uterus, the womb) means relating to the uterus, e.g. utero-abdominal (belonging to the uterus and the abdomen), uterofixation (the suturing of the uterus in cases of displacement, or hysteropexy), utero-gestation (pregnancy inside the uterus as distinguished from tubal preg- nancy), utero-sacral (related to the uterus and sacrum, e.g. the utero-sacral ligaments), utero- vesical (relating to the uterus and bladder, e.g. the utero-vesical space between the uterus and the bladder), etc. Uterus. I. Malformations of the Vulva, Va- gina, and Uterus . . .319 II. Displacements of the Uterus 327 III. Inflammations of the Uterus and Cervix Uteri .... 340 IV. Benign Tumours of Uterus . . 348 V. Malignant Tumours of the Uterus 363 VI. Uterine and Ovarian States, In- sanity associated with . . 376 See also Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis of (Uterus); Asthma {Cause of Attack); Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Nerve Deafness, Toxic); Broad Ligaments ; Curettage, Uterine ; Ec- lampsia ; Ectopic Gestation ; Electricity {In Gynaecology); Embryology ; Fallopian Tubes ; Generation, Female Organs of {Uterus); Gen- eration, Female Organs, Arrested Develop- ment OF {Uterus); Gynecology, Diagnosis in {Uterus); Headache {Causes, Reproductive Sys- tem); Hydropathy {Iji Uterine Diseases); Hyp- notism {Effect on Uterine Contractions); Hys- teria; Labour, Physiology of; Labour, Stages and Duration ; Labour, Diagnosis and Me- chanism ; Labour, Management op ; Labour in Multiple Pregnancy ; Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged ; Labour, Faults in the Pas- senger ; Labour, Accidental Complications ; Labour, Retained Placenta ; Labour, Post- partum Hemorrhage ; Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs ; Labour, Obstetric Opera- tions {Forceps, Version, etc.); Lungs, Vascu- lar Disorders {Embolism, Causes, Puerperium); Malingering {Genito-Urinary); Menopause ; Menstruation and its Disorders ; Micturition {Retention due to Retroversion of the Gravid Uterus); Ovaries, Diseases of {Tumours, Diag- nosis) ; Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor {Lesions, Prolapsus Uteri); Pelvis, Diseases of Cellular Tissue and Peritoneum ; Pelvis, Hematocele and Hematoma ; Post-Mortem Methods {Cavities, Abdomen and Pelvis); Preg- nancy, Changes in Maternal Organism ; Preg- nancy, Diagnosis of ; Pregnancy, Multiple ; Pregnancy, Management of; Pregnancy, Path- ology OF; Pregnancy, Ovum and Decidua ; Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta and Cord ; Pregnancy, Affections and Accidental Com- plications ; Pregnancy, Hemorrhage in ; Pu- berty {Changes in Uterus); Puerperium, Physi- ology OF; Puerperium, Pathology of {Puer- peral Infection, Deciduoma Malignum); Pur- pura {Symptomatic); Spleen, Surgery of (Wan- dering Spleen, Diagnosis); Sterility {Causes); Urachus {Fistula); Vagina ; Venereal Dis- ease ; Visceral Pain. I. Malformations of the Vulva, Vagina, and Uterus This subject will be considered under the following headings:— A. Development of the Female Genital Organs 320 B. Malformations of the Female Geni- tal Organs 321 I. Malformations by Arrest of Develop- ment— {a) Total Arrest, or Absence of Organs..... 321 (6) Partial Arrest, or Underdevelop- ment ..... 321 II. Malformations by Persistence of Septa 322 (a) Persistence of Longitudinal Septa— Double Uterus and Vagina . 322 (6) Persistence of Transverse Septa— Atresia of the Genital Passages 323 (c) Persistence of Longitudinal and Transverse Septa— Unilateral Atresia. . . 324