TYPHUS FEVER 210 sleep, sponges, hot drinks, etc., should be tried. Great attention must be paid to the condition of the mouth, which should be swabbed fre- quently with boroglyceride or some similar pre- paration. The skin of the back must be carefully watched, and bed-sores avoided by judicious nursing. The bladder is always a source of anxiety, and should be percussed daily to see that no accumulation of urine is allowed to occur. Constipation, a frequent condition in this fever, should be treated most cautiously. An injudicious dose of castor oil, if given too far on in the fever, may set up an intractable diarrhoea. An enema after the first week is over is much safer. As regards complications they must be treated on general lines. Prophylaxis.—The general improvement in the sanitary conditions of our great cities has practically removed all chances of a recurrence of the great epidemics of former days. The regulation of common lodging-houses, the aboli- tion of one-roomed dwellings, and the destruction of our worst slums, seem likely to abolish typhus altogether. In presence of an outbreak thorough inspection and disinfection of suspected localities, and a rigid quarantine of all persons exposed to the infection, will soon stamp out the disease. In hospitals the thorough ventilation of the wards, and a liberal allowance of cubic air-space per patient, say 2500 to 3000 cubic feet per bed, have been found to protect the attendants on the sick from contracting the fever. The frequent sponging of the patients with antiseptic solutions, such as Jeyes' fluid in water, is prob- ably also of some prophylactic value. It is also important for the physicians and nurses to be in good health, and no one who is at all " run down " or ailing should be permitted to enter a typhus ward. TyremesiSa—The vomiting of cheesy or caseous matters, as in the case of young infants (Gr. Tvpos, cheese). Tyro-.—In compound words tyro- (Gr. rrpds, cheese) means cheesy, curdy, or caseous, e.g. tyroma, a caseous mass; tyrosis, caseation; and tyrotoxism, poisoning with cheese. Tyrosin.—An amido-acid (CgHuNOj) pro- duced by the decomposition of proteids under the influence of trypsin. See Physiology, Proto- plasm {Products of Decomposition); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Pancreatic Secretion). See also Bronchi, Bronchitis {Fostid Variety); Ex- pectoration {Crystals); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Sediments, Tyrosin). TyrotOXicon. — A ptomaine obtained from poisonous cheese, ice-cream, milk, etc., and causing symptoms like those of summer diarrhoea (of which, indeed, it is regarded as the cause). See Toxicology (Animal Foods, Cheese). Tyrrel's Fascia. — The recto-vesical fascia lying between the prostate gland and the rectal canal; Denonvilliers' Fascia. Ty SO n 'S Gland S.—The sebaceous glands of the prepuce which secrete the smegma. See Penis, Surgical Affections of {Balanitis, Causes). liberty.— Fecundity or fertihty (Lat. uber, an udder). Ucambinor Ukam bin.—An African arrow-poison, resembling strophanthus in its pharmacological actions. Uclietu. See Leprosy {History, Syno- nyms). Udranslcy's (Von) Test.—A name given to two tests, one for bile acids and the other for tyrosin; in both cases a solution of furforol (C^H^Oo) and sulphuric acid is used, and this in the presence of bile acids gives a red colour with a shade of blue and in presence of tyrosin a pink mixture. UfTelmann's Test.—A method of distinguishing between lactic acid and hydro- chloric acid in the stomach contents ; a solution of carbolic acid, water, and a few drops of neutral ferric chloride which is blue in colour becomes yellow in the presence of lactic acid, while hydrochloric acid renders it colourless. Uhieniluth'S Test.—A serum test for the recognition of human blood (in stains, etc.); it is a precipitin test, and enables one not only to differentiate human from animal blood, but also to discover what animal the blood has come from if it be not human. See Robertson, W. G. A., Trans. Med.-Chir. Soc. Edinb., vol. XXV. p. 47, 1906. Ulsemorriiagrla. — Haemorrhage from the gums (Gr. ovka, the gums), as in scurvy, mercurial poisoning, etc. Ulcers and Ulceration. Definitions . . . . . .211 Conditions which prevent Healing . 211 The Healing Sore . . . .211 A Septic Ulcer ..... 212 Classification of Ulcers . . .212 A. Arrangement of Ulcers according to Cause . . .212 1. Ulcers due to Traumatism . 212 2. Ulcers due to Imperfect Circulation . . .212 3. Ulcers due to Imperfect Nerve-Supply . . .213 4. Ulcers due to Constitutional Causes . . . .213 5. Ulcers due to Malignant Disease . . . .214 J