URAEMIA 250 tendency to fatal coma. In plethoric indi- viduals, when diaphoretic measures and hydra- gogue purgatives fail to check convulsions, vene- section is often of service; the removal of twenty ounces of blood, or more, may give great relief. Even with great weakness or threaten- ing collapse, venesection may still be performed with advantage if, at the same time, an intra- venous injection of normal saline solution is employed. With coma, diaphoresis and catharsis should be continued, or chloral hydrate and potassium bromide may be given. The inhalation of oxy- gen has been tried, with indifferent success, to check the hissing dyspnoea. The spasmodic dyspnoea of chronic uraemia is sometimes benefited by the administration of nitroglycerin (trinitrin) in solution, or by the inhalation of amyl nitrite ; preparations of ether and other diffusible stimulants are also of service. Frequently, however, it will be found that the dyspnoea yields more rapidly when the hot air baths are employed in conjunction with hydra- gogue purgatives. Similarly, although neuralgia and headache may sometimes be relieved by phenacetin or acetanilide, better results ordinarily accompany an eliminative line of treatment. Nausea and vomiting may be controlled by ice, by diluted hydrocyanic acid, and by pre- parations of bismuth, but the due recognition of their ursemic character and the adoption of diaphoretic and purgative measures will often give greater relief. UrsemiC.—Caused by or characterised by urtemia (q.v.). Ural or Uralium.—Chloral-urethane, a combination of chloral hydrate and urethane (CCl3CH.OH.NHCO.^C2H5), which acts as a hyp- notic ; dose, 10 to 20 grains. UranalysiS.—Urine analysis, qualitative and quantitative. See Urine, Pathological Changes in ; Uric Acid ; etc. U ran i SCO p I asty.—Reparative surgery of the palate (Gr. oipavt'o-Ko?, roof of mouth), e.g. in cases of cleft or fissure; this may take the form of suture of the palate, uraniscorrhaphy or staphylorrhaphy. Uranism.—Sexual perversion; desire for individual of the same sex ; tribadism, Lesbian love, etc. Uranomania. — Religious mania with exaltation. UranOSChisiS. — Cleft palate (Gr. ovpavo5, the palate ; cr;^icrt9, cleft). Urari. See Curara. Urate.—A salt of uric acid. See Gout {Morbid Anatoviy, Urate of Soda); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Symptomat- ology, Deposit of Urates in Urine); Uric Acid ; Urine, Pathological Changes in {Sediments). UratiC.—Belonging to or characterised by iirates, e.g. uratic deposits in gout. Uraturia.—A morbid state of the urine in which there is an excess of urates. Urberoag'o de Aizoia. See Ealne- OLOGY {Spain a7id Portugal). Urea.— Carbamide (CO(NH2)2), the chief niti-ogenous product of the action of the kidneys, also found in the blood and lymph. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Nitrogenous Con- stituents, Urea). See also Balneology {Effects of Heat); FjCLamfsia {Etiology); Enzymes (?7rea Ferments); FiECES {Chemical Examination, Urea); Liver, Physiology of {Supply of Proteids); Menstruation {Phenomena, Menstrual Wave); Nephritis {Clinical Features of Types, Urine); Physiology, Blood and Lymph {Plasma, Chem- istry of); Physiology, Fate of Food Absorbed {Liver in Relation to Proteins); Pregnancy, Physiology op {Changes in Urine); Skin, Anatomy and Physiology {Function of Secre- tion, Sweat); Temperature {Changes in Fever, Injection of Urea); Uremia ; and Uric Acid. UrechysiS.—Effusion of urine into the areolar tissue of the body, e.g. in rupture of the urethra or bladder. Uredo Foetida. — A form of fungus, known also as rust, which makes flours and meals unfit for food. Uremia. See Uraemia. Ureters. See Kidney, Physiology of; Kidney, Surgical Affections of {The Ureter). See also Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of ; Cystoscope {Method of Cystoscopy); H/ematuria {Causes, Catheterisation of Ureters); Pyuria {Diagnosis of Origiri); Spasm {Ureteric Spasm); Tuberculosis {Genito-Urinary); Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Significance of Albuminuria, Temporary Occlusion of Ureter); Visceral Pain {Urete7'). Ureteraig'ia.—Pain in the ureters. Ureterectomy.—Excision of the ureter, e.g. in tubercular and suppurative ureteritis. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Opera- tions). Ureteritis.—Inflammation of the ureter. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Ureter, Inflammation). Uretero-.—In compound words urete7-o- (Gr. ovprjTtjp, ureter) means relating to or be- longing to the ureter, e.g. ureter-o-cystostomy