452 VESICUL^ SEMINALES entire thickness of the vesicle wall, and are then prone to invade also the perivesicular connective tissues. When such is the case the surrounding tissues are first invaded by effusion of plastic lymph, which in extreme instances may fill up the post-prostate rectovesical space. These tissues then show to the feel the presence of hard oedema. This is a condition which the unskilled in the rectal feel almost invariably diagnose as prostatic hypertrophy. After a time this plastic lymph becomes organised into hard sclerous tissue. This hard sclerous tissue is much less bulky than the plastic effusion. Sometimes, generally in strumous subjects, gonorrhoeal perivesiculitis, be it chronic or acute, may be suppurative. This chronic gonor- rhoea! process generally does not extend along the genital tract beyond the seminal vesicle. It may, however, involve the cord and epididymis. In such cases the cord is not apt to appear much if at all enlarged. The inflammation of the epididymis is less than in the acute gonor- rhoeal condition, while at the same time it is more severe than would ordinarily be expected from a simple inflammation. Symptoms.—In subacute and chronic seminal vesiculitis, during periods of exacerbation there may be painful sensations of a mild grade, such as have just been described as associated with the acute form of the disease. In very many of these chronic forms of inflammation, however, the associated painful sensations are slight, and in a certain percentage of them pain is absent altogether. Oftentimes symptoms of pain and discomfort caused by the disease may be so reflected as to be associated in the patient's mind with other parts. Thus, painful sensa- tions in one or both testes, scrotum, cord, along the urethra, end of penis, bladder, and kidney may be complained of. The rectum, coccyx, and small of the back may likewise be the seats of such pain. Instances are recorded where pain due to seminal vesiculitis has so closely simulated intestinal colic and sciatica as to mislead able practitioners. Numerous and varied bladder and urethral symptoms may be hereby caused. Thus micturition may be fre- quent, urgent, and painful, sometimes difficult; the urine escaping drop by drop. After the urinary act has been thus inhibited for several hours the spell may all of a sudden pass off and the urine be passed easily. If these cases are carefully watched it will often be found that the vesical symptoms, such as have been described, are most intense after sexual excitement. Then again, inflammatory symptoms may exist in connection with the urethra chiefly,' less often with the bladder, which are dependent entirely on an associated seminal vesiculitis. In such cases an urethral discharge of vesical pus will be found, there being no lesion in the urethra or bladder to account for the inflammatory evidences, and no amount of treatment directed toward the urethra and bladder will be found of any avail in curing the inflammatory evi- dences. As soon, however, as a cure of the vesiculitis may be effected, then these associated symptoms will be found to disappear perman- ently. Rarely the urethral discharge in such instances may be of such a severe grade as to be bloody. In some instances, through the agency of germ infection, the bladder (bacteri- uria) may also become infected; when such is the case it will be found impossible to rid the bladder of the germ infection until after the focus of infection in the seminal vesicle has been eliminated. Another fairly common complaint in chronic seminal vesicular disease is that after straining at stool, specially over a hard bulky movement, there is apt to appear at the meatus a mass of glairy, sticky material. In this class of affections, however, derange- ments of the sexual function are most marked, and furnish the most important group of symp- toms. When the disease is not of very long standing the active evidences of irritation usually result in symptoms of sexual excitement, such as an undue amount of erections associated with an increase in sexual desire. Anything the least suggestive will be sufficient to excite the sexual centre. Involuntary emissions are in such conditions frequent, often occurring by day. These emissions are generally followed by a feeling of discomfort locally, and by de- pression generally. They may sometimes cause acute perineal pain. They lack force, and the amount of material ejaculated at a given in- stance is small. In some extreme instances there may be a feeling of ejaculation without any result, no fluid appearing at the meatus. If, in such cases, sexual intercourse be attempted, there is usually a premature ejaculation, ac- companied sometimes by pain, and followed by failure of erection. In all such cases, however, whether there be premature failure or not, little satisfaction is obtainable from the act, the sexual craving still persisting undiminished by the sexual attempts. As the case becomes more chronic, feelings of sexual weakness grow more pronounced, and after a time there may be positive impotency. As the erections grow weaker and finally fail, so also do the sexual desire and craving, together with a cessation from emissions. In a small number of instances potency may persist apparently unimpaired, although sexual desire and satisfaction may be lessened. In a few cases the sexual function remains undisturbed. The character of the seminal fluid is altered in chronic seminal vesiculitis. It is often puru- lent and stained with blood. In other instances, where the inflammation is very quiescent, it may be thick and jellified. In most cases the spermatozoa which it may contain are dead on ejaculation. Neurotic sensations, some of them curious and indefinite, are often caused by