208 TYPHUS FEVER such an aspect has suffered from a sudden attack of chilliness accompanied by headache and vomiting, the presumption in favour of typhus is strong. Those who have had experience of the fever often find assistance from the characteristic odour of the patient. This has been compared to that of rotten straw or of mice, but it really is indescribable. It is usually appreciated only on first lifting or disturbing the bedclothes to look at the rash, and appears to be quite inde- pendent of the dirty surroundings in which the typhus patient is usually found, for it has been noted in cases after they have been weeks in hospital. Its existence as a definite sign is, however, it is only fair to add, doubted by no less an authority than Curschmann. It will be well to consider a few of the chief conditions liable to be mistaken for typhus. In its early stage it closely resembles small-pox in its onset, but this difficulty is so quickly cleared up that it is hardly worth noting. Much more important is its differentiation from the follow- ing diseases :— Typhoid.—This distinction is not likely to cause much difficulty in a patient watched from the first day of his illness. But it is well to remember that all cases of typhoid do not start insidiously, and that in certain instances the onset may be quite abrupt. The difficulty is usually to distinguish a typhus case with a history of some ten days' illness from an enteric case in the third week. The table below gives the chief distinctions :— Face . Expression . Pupils . Conjunctivse . Abdomen Rash Pulse Termination . It must, however, be always borne in mind that a bad case of enteric, with delirium and a profuse eruption, may defy the skill of the most careful physician. The most reliable method of diagnosis is undoubtedly Widal's reaction, which, if done properly, is absolutely to be trusted. But here, again, the class of persons who con- tract typhus have often previously had enteric fever, and a reaction may be occasionally given, which is liable to confuse the diagnosis more than ever. Ehrlich's reaction is useless, as all cases of typhus give it. Pneumo7iia.—The marked respiratory symp- toms of typhus, the flushed face, and the sudden onset have often caused difficulty in distinguish- ing the two diseases. Moreover, cases of apical pneumonia with "typhoid" symptoms may closely simulate typhus, and the physical signs be not easy to make sure of. In cases where there is doubt in the early stage, before the rash has appeared, it is always well to examine the lungs, and especially the apics, most care- fully ; and in later stages, where the rash may be presumed to have faded, it is well to ascertain if the dulness at the bases of the lungs is limited to the lower lobes only. A true pneumonia usually affects the whole lobe. A hypostatic pneumonia, complicating typhus, usually affects both sides equally, and may not reach, or may overstep the limits of the lobe. Again, in the latter case, though there may be abundance of fine crepitations, it is unusual to find tubular breathing. Meningitis.—Here again the absence of the rash is the chief distinction. The typhus patient is hardly so irritable as the meningitic one. If a child, he is not likely to utter the peculiar cerebral cry. He may, however, suffer from ptosis, strabismus, inequality of the pupils, and so on, although these symptoms are, of course, much more common in meningitis. In typhus the headache ceases when the delirium begins, whereas in the severer condition the headache usually persists. The " tache cerebrale " may be of some assistance in these cases. Of the other conditions which may cause con- fusion we may instance, first, measles, the rash of which, when fading, may present a fair imita- tion of that of typhus. In measles, however, there is always a trace, or a history of the Enteric Fever. Pale, with hectic flush. Languid and dreamy. Dilated, or in bad cases normal. Clear. Tumid and tender. Scattered rose-spots on trunk, dis- appearing on pressure. Usually infrequent in compai'ison to the temperature, and dicrotic. Lysis. existence of the rash on the face, and usually a history of catarrh of eyes and nose. In typhus the rash never invades the face, and the eyes and nose do not suffer. Purpura is usually un- accompanied by fever, and its relatively large haemorrhages are not seen in conjunction with a subjacent mottled rash. Urcemia also is seldom febrile ; still, it is well to remember it has been occasionally confused with typhus. Influenza in its early stage has many features in common with typhus fever. Prognosis and Mortality.—Questions of age and sex are of great importance in giving a prognosis. As regards the former, it may be broadly stated that the danger steadily increases as age advances. It has been stated by some Typhus Fever. . Congested and bloated. Drunken. Contracted. . Injected. Usually normal and not tender. Fairly profuse. Not fading on pressure. Petechial. Rapid. Crisis at about end of second week.