601 ZESTOCAUSIS OR ZESTOKAUSIS with its outer tube closed at the end (zesto- cautery) and heated by steam. See Atmo- KAUsis; Curettage. Ziehl'S Solution.—A staining fluid, containing carbolic acid and fuchsin, for the recognition of the tubercle bacillus. See Post- mortem Methods {Bacteriological Stains, Fuchsin). Ziemssen's Points.—The points of entrance of motor nerves into muscles; they are to be chosen for the application of elec- tricity. Ziemssen's Test.—A means of dis- tinguishing a distended gall-bladder from a renal tumour; it consists in distending the colon with gas. See Gall-Bladder and Bilb- DucTS, Diseases of {Tumours of Gall-Bladder, Diagnosis). Zimmermann's Corpuscles or Particles. — Blood platelets or plaques. See Blood {Blood Plates). Zinc. See also Dermatitis Traumatica ET Venenata {Causal Agents, Chemical); Toxi- cology {Irritants, Zinc). The metal itself, Zincum, is not official. The following are the official salts: — 1. Zinci Oxidum. Insoluble. Dose—3-10 grs. Preparation — Unguentum Zinci. 2. Zinci Carbonas. Insoluble. Dose —1-3 grs. 3. Zinci Sulphas. Soluble, 10 in 7 of water. Dose—1-3 grs.: 10-30 grs. as an emetic. Preparation—Unguentum Zinci Oleatis. 4. Zinci Chloridum. Freely soluble. Pre- paration — Liquor Zinci Chloridi. .5. Zinci Acetas. Dose—1-2 grs. 6. Zinci Valerianas. 7. Zinci Sulphocarbolas. There are also a large number of unofficial salts. The salts of zinc are chiefly used for purposes of external application. The chloride is a power- ful caustic, and in the form of a stick or paste may be employed for the destruction of warts, etc. In solution it is a strong antiseptic, and was formerly employed to disinfect bed-pans, closets, etc. A solution of 40 grs. to the ounce has been used on gauze or lint for plugging cavities after operations in the oro-nasal region, but it causes considerable pain. Very weak solutions have been recommended for con- junctivitis and gonorrhoea. The sulphate is an excellent astringent and antiseptic for appli- cation to ulcers and raw surfaces, for conjunc- tivitis, and as an injection for gonorrhosa, leucor- rhcea, and similar conditions. The strength of solution varies according to circumstances, but it is usually employed as Lotio Rubra of the strength of 2 grs. to the ounce and coloured with compound tincture of lavender. The oxide and the carbonate are widely used in the form of powder or ointment for their mild astringent effect. Purified zinc carbonate, known as Cala- mine, is an excellent astringent. Internally the sulphate is a prompt emetic, and does not cause much nausea or depression. The ad- ministration of zinc salts in various aff"ections of the nervous system was formerly in consider- able vogue, but has now been abandoned. The oxide of zinc will sometimes check the night- sweats of phthisis. The sulphate has been prescribed in cases of serous diarrhoea. Zincalism. — Chronic zinc-poisoning as is met with in zinc-smelters, zinc-grinders, brassfounders, calico-printers, and others. See Toxicology {Irritaiits, Zinc). Zinc Perhydrol.—A white powder con- taining 50 per cent of zinc peroxide (ZnOj); it is used externally in the form of ointment or powder as a disinfectant in wounds, ulcers, and burns, and as an antiseptic in some skin diseases such as dermatitis traumatica et venenata, acne rosacea, etc. Zincum. SeeZmc. Zing'iber.—Ginger: the dried rhizome (scraped) of Zingiber officinale. It contains an aromatic volatile oil, gingerol, and several resins. Dose—10-20 grs. Preparations—1. Syrupus Zingiberis. Dose—\-\ 5. 2. Tinctura Zingiberis. Dose—30-60 m. It is used as a carminative and stomachic, and also merely as a flavouring agent. Combined with purgative medicines it has the eff'ect of preventing griping. It is somewhat constipating, and is a frequent ingredient of mixtures for checking simple diarrhoea. Zinn, Artery of.—The central artery of the retina. Zinn, Ligament or Ring of.—Part of the common tendon of the recti muscles of the eyeball, which forms a circular fibrous sheath for the eye and is not attached to the sheath of the optic nerve. Zinn, Zonule of.—The suspensory ligament of the crystalline lens of the eyeball. See Lens, Crystalline {Anatomy). Zittman'S Decoction, ^'ee Syphilis {Tertiary, Treatment, Zittman's Regimen). Zoamylin.—Glycogen {q.v.). Zoanthropia.—A form of insanity in which the sufferer imagines his body to be inhabited by an animal, or himself to be trans- formed into an animal. Zollikofer's Method.—A method for bringing out the iodine reaction in the case of leucocytes; the fresh blood film is placed for a few minutes in a closed bottle containing some crystals of pure iodine. Zomotherapy or Zoomo- therapy.—The treatment of disease (tuber- culosis) by a diet of raw meat.