38 TONGUE widespread infection of glands, the operation is seldom advisable. Not only is it attended with serious immediate risk, as the patient is usually very much run down, but rapid local recurrence with persistence of the symptoms renders it futile. In such cases palliative treatment alone is available. The mouth must be kept as sweet as possible by the frequent use of an antiseptic mouth wash, such as Condy's fluid, sanitas, izal, or peroxide of hydrogen. The pain may be relieved to some extent by local applications, such as cocaine or orthoform, but as a rule the free administration of morphia is called for. When feasible, division of the lingual nerve may be performed, but the benefit is seldom great. Htemorrhage, if slight, may be arrested by local styptics, such as adrenaline or turpentine ; if more copious, by ligature of the external carotid in the neck. Tracheotomy may be called for when the respiration is im- peded. When the taking of food by the mouth causes much pain, recourse must be had to rectal feeding. Operative Treatment.—Numerous operations have been devised for the removal of the tongue, and in selecting that most suitable to a given case, consideration must be had to the site and extent of the tumour, and the degree of implication of the lymphatic glands. The chief immediate risks of the operation are shock, hsemorrhage, and interference with respiration by the entrance of blood into the air passages. In patients who are not already exhausted by the disease, who are not suffering from albumin- uria, or any other general affection, and who have not been addicted to alcohol, the shock is seldom severe. By adopting the usual measures it can be reduced to a minimum (see "Shock"). The prevention of htemorrhage is one of the most important points in the operation. Some surgeons advocate a preliminary ligature of one or both lingual arteries in the neck as a routine measure. Others only carry this out when an incision has to be made in the neck in any case for the removal of infected glands. In a recent series of cases the writer has found the applica- tion of a temporary ligature to the external carotid, just below the origin of the lingual, of great service in diminishing the loss of blood. This measure is particularly useful in cases where extensive operations are called for, as the hsemorrhage from the facial and its branches, as well as from the lingual, is controlled. The carotid is exposed in the removal of the infected glands, and a broad catgut or kangaroo-tendon ligature applied as the first, that is the double, twist of a "surgeon's knot." As this loop is tightened the wall of the artery is infolded by the lateral pressure of the finger-nail, so that the lumen is occluded without risk of ruptur- ing the tunica intima. The subsequent removal of the ligature is facilitated by the simple manoeuvre of including in its grasp a piece of stout silk laid parallel with the artery. The ends of the ligature and of the included piece of silk are brought out through the wound. After the operation on the tongue is completed the knot on the ligature is undone by pulling upon the two ends of the silk. This obviates the necessity of handling the wound in the neck after the fingers have been soiled in the mouth. The risk of blood entering the air passages and causing asphyxia can usually be reduced to a minimum if the patient's head be so placed that the blood tends to flow out of the mouth, and if the back of the pharynx be frequently sponged during the operation. This sponging should be done very gently and no oftener than is necessary, as rough handling of the back of the pharynx appears to add to the shock. When it is necessary to encroach on the base of the tongue, and when the tumour fills the mouth, it may be advisable to perform a pre- liminary laryngotomy or tracheotomy. The back of the pharynx can then be firmly plugged while the anaesthetic is administered through the tracheal tube. The most important of the remote risks of the operation is septic infection. It is impossible to lay too much stress upon the impoi'tance of thoroughly purifying the mouth before the operation. For several days the mouth should be washed out every two or three hours with an antiseptic wash; the teeth should be cleansed and the ulcer on the tongue purified and dusted with iodoform or some other antiseptic powder. After the operation a special nurse should be detailed to attend to the purification of the mouth and the feeding of the patient. By con- stant douching and by careful feeding the mouth may be kept perfectly sweet, and the risk of septic complications reduced to a minimum. Watson-Cheyne recommends the preliminary injection of antistreptococcus serum in cases where there is reason to anticipate septic com- plications. Treatment of Infected Glands. — Until within recent years it was generally accepted that operative interference was contra-indicated when there was any considerable infection of the submaxillary and cervical glands, and particularly when the enlarged glands had become fixed. It has been shown, however, that much can be done in the way of removing these glands even when they have formed adhesions to the carotid sheath and its contents. As a rule, it is only the jugular vein which is seriously implicated in the adhesions, and a considerable portion of this vessel may with safety be removed along with the glands if necessary. Cheyne has deliberately removed a portion of the vagus nerve along with a cancer-