VENTRICLE 441 GiTis, Tuberculous and Posterior Basic {Treat- ment, Surgical); Verga. Ventrofixation or Ventrosus- pension.—Ventral fixation or ventrohystero- pexy. See Uterus, Displacements of {Prolapse, Operative Treatment). Veratrine. — An alkaloid derived from the dried seeds of Schoenocaulon officinale. It is a greyish powder, odourless, but very irrita- ting to the nostrils and causing prolonged sneez- ing. Dose—T-V-yV g'^' pill- Preparation— Unguentum Veratringe. It has an exceedingly toxic effect on the heart and nervous system, and is rarely given internally. Externally, in the form of the ointment, it is used for neuralgia, muscular rheumatism, and articular rheuma- tism. See also Alkaloids (Veratrina); Muscles, Diseases of the {Myotonia Congenita, Resem- blance to poisoning by Veratria); Physiology, Tissues {Muscle, Contraction); Spasm {Causes, Veratrine); Toxicology {Hellebore). Veratrum Viride. — American helle- bore ; it contains jeroin and veratroidin (alka- loids), and its action is due to their combined effect (slowing of the pulse, lessening of blood pressure, and vomiting); it is recommended in eclampsia gravidarum {see Eclampsia), in sthenic pneumonia and peritonitis, etc.; it is given in the form of the tincture (dose, 1 to 3 m.) or of the fluid extract. Verbigeration.—The frequent repe- tition of a word, or group of words, or simply of a sound, occurring as a symptom of insanity. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Speech). Verga's Ventricle.—When the psal- terium is not entirely fused to the under surface of the corpus callosum, a small cleft-like space is left between them, known as Verga's ventricle. Verlieyen's Stars.—Stellate venous plexuses seen on the surface of the kidney, under the capsule. Vermicelli. See Diet {Vegetable Foods, Cereals). Vermicides. Anthelmintics; Para- sites {Cestodes); Pharmacology. Vermiform.—Having the shape of a worm, e.g. the vermiform appendix of the intestine and the vermiform processes of the middle lobe of the cerebellum. See Appendix Vermiformis. Vermifuges. See Anthelmintics; Parasites {Cestodes); Pharmacology. Vermination.—The state of being in- fested by worms. Vermin Paste. See Trades, Danger- ous {Phosphorus). Vermis.—A worm, and so, in Descriptive Anatomy, a worm-shaped structure, such as the middle lobe of the cerebellum. See Parasites ; Physiology, Nervous System {Cerebellum, Structure). Vernet-les-Bains. See Balneology {France, Sulphur Waters). VerniX Caseosa.—The sticky deposit found on the skin of the new-born infant, especially in the flexures of the limbs, back of the neck, etc., consisting of the secretion of the sebaceous and sweat glands and some shed epithelium and hairs; its literal meaning is " cheesy varnish." See New-born Infant {Physiological Peculiarities, Management, Bath). Veronal.—Diethyl malonyl urea, a hyp- notic drug which has been widely used for the production of sleep in cases unaccompanied by pain ; it has been given in doses 5 to 10 or even 20 grains, but it appears to have a cumulative action and may sometimes be followed by toxic effects (rashes, diuretic action, etc.) ; the conditions which have been regarded as indications for its use are insomnia, sea- sickness, hyperemesis gravidarum, and phthisis (for insomnia and night-sweats); it is also used to prevent chloroform sickness and the un- pleasant effects of morphine. Verruca.—A wart. See Skin, Tubercu- losis OF (Verruca necrogenica) ; Warts or VERRUCiE; etc. Verrucktheit.—The German equivalent ioxpMranoia (q.v.). Verruga Peruana. See also Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Constitutional Infec- tive Diseases).—Synonyms.—-Verruga Andicola, Peruvian wart, bouton des Andes, la maladie de Carrion, fievre dela Oroya, fievre maligne de " las quebradas." Dejinition. — A general infective disease, peculiarly limited in distribution, and usually marked by anaemia, severe constitutional distur- bance, and the subsequent development of a characteristic skin eruption. History.—As far back as the sixteenth century verruga apparently attacked the Spanish soldiers at Coaque (Ecuador) and in Puerto Viego and Cusco, but of late years it has never established itself outside certain deep-cleft inland vallej's on the western slopes of the Peruvian Andes in the departments of Ancachs, Lima, and Libertad, between 8 and 13 degrees of latitude, and at elevations of 1400 to 9000 feet. Although Haviland Hall heard from Zaruma (Ecuador) of a mild outbreak of very similar disease, and Beaumanoir reported a solitaiy case in Reunion, in neither case did it spread. In 1870 the out-