184 TYPHOID FEVER during convalescence, and in some such cases little structural change has been found in the heart substance. They are probably attribut- able as much to want of blood in the body as to loss of heart power. Blood in Typhoid Fever.—The red blood cor- puscles in the late stages are much decreased, falling to even 2| million per cmm., and the haemoglobin is correspondingly lessened. The leucocytes also become much lessened in number, sometimes numbering only 1000 per cmm. (Huyens). This decrease is most marked in the late stages of the disease. According to Coe the fibrin of the blood is diminished in typhoid fever, the exact contrary of what occurs in other fevers. The blood plates are diminished in number. All these results show the deterioration of the quality of the blood in typhoid fever, and there is in the disease a progressive anaemia. The actual volume of the blood becomes les- sened ; and especially when there has been much diarrhoea, sweating, and haemorrhage, the vessels become extremely empty. In many cases, as will be found in opening veins for injection of salines, the veins are over full and the arteries quite empty. The tendency to bloodlessness in severe typhoid cases is an important point to be remembered in treatment. Fatal results attributed often to cardiac failure are really due to blood failure. Epistaxis may occur not only during the in- cubation period, but later on, even as late as the twenty-ninth day (da Costa). It may then be a part of a tendency to general haemorrhages from the mucous membranes (see Complications). Respiratory System. — The respirations are accelerated by the pyrexia and blood condition. At the onset of the disease moist sounds are usually audible in the larger bronchial tubes, and later on there is a tendency to hypostatic congestion of the lungs. In some cases more severe affections of lung or pleura occur (see Complications). As already said, typhoid fever may begin with acute pneumonia due to the bacillus of Eberth (pneumo-typhoid) or more rarely with pleurisy (pleuro-typhoid). Renal System. — The urine is lessened in quantity and febrile in character; during con- valescence the quantity is often increased and phosphates deposited. Albuminuria occurs in about one-quarter of the cases, usually slight in amount, and due to pyrexia and to toxins in the blood, rarely to the typhoid bacillus : the urine may be very offensive. Typhoid bacilli are detectable in the urine in about 25 per cent of the cases, not often before the twelfth day, sometimes in quantity sufficient to produce turbidity of the urine. It is pro- bable that bacilli pass through the kidney into the bladder, and there multiply to produce this condition, and retention of urine, which is ex- tremely common in typhoid fever, may favour this process. Other renal complications are described under that head. Ehrlich's Reaction.—Ehrlich's test depends on the production of a pink colour and froth when the urine of a typhoid patient is treated with his solutions. These are two in number (1) acid hydrochloric one part, distilled water twenty parts, sulphanilic acid to saturation, (2) a half per cent solution of nitrate of sodium in distilled water. The test consists in adding to a specimen of the urine an equal quantity of liquid made up of the two solutions in the pro- portion of forty parts of No. 1 solution to one part of No. 2 solution, and then adding liquor ammoniae to alkalinise the solution. In cases of typhoid fever the urine becomes of a deep ruby-red colour, and on shaking the test-tube a delicate pink froth is produced. It is not claimed this pink froth is produced only in the urine of typhoid fever, but it is very constant in such urine. Nervous System.—The degree of affection of the nervous system varies with the character of the epidemic, the intensity of the poison, the idiosyncrasy of the patient, the condition of his secreting organs, and the associated secondary infection. It is rare for the patient to be suddenly prostrated by the onset of typhoid fever as by typhus fever or influenza, but this may occur especially in children. Most often the early nerve symptoms are headache, sleep- lessness, and lassitude; the headache usually lasts the first ten days, but it may persist longer, sometimes coming on again late in the disease; the sleeplessness usually passes off with the headache and gives place to undue drowsiness. The mental condition may remain clear through- out even a long and fatal case, more often there is some degree of hebetude, with slowness of apprehension and delay in speech, though what is said is quite reasonable. In some cases the mind seems unusually active, the patient answer- ing questions and volunteering information with great minuteness of detail. Often with a ten- dency to drop into heavy sleep, the patient is perfectly clear when roused. Delirium occurs in many cases, varying from a little " light- headedness " at night to loud, noisy, very active or low muttering delirium. Sometimes it re- sembles delirium tremens. Delirium does not often occur before the tenth day, that is, after cessation of the headache ; the two together are rare ; it may occur early, even on the very first day. Delirium may occur in cases with little intestinal disturbance, in fact in some cases toxic nervous symptoms predominate over all other symptoms. In cases which go on after the twenty-fourth day or thereabouts, delirium is rarely absent, in many cases it comes on with septic complications, especially pneumonia ; in some is a symptom of local intracranial disease (see Complications). It may come on during convalescence, like acute mania; sometimes