VAGINA, DISORDERS OF THE 403 of the terms vaginitis or colpitis is confined. The covering of the vaginal cervix has a similar structure to the mucous membrane of the vagina, and is affected by inflammation in similar ways; hence inflammatory affections of this part of the cervix are frequently referred to as vaginitis of the portio, and should be considered along with those of the vagina. The lining of the vagina has rather the characters of skin than of mucous membrane ; it is covered by a thick stratified squamous epithelium, and has no glands, and is thus little prone to become inflamed. On the other hand, the lining is very vascular, is exposed to many injurious influences, and the changes that take place in menstruation, pregnancy, and childbed predispose it to inflammation. This predisposition may be increased by hypersemia, passive as in affections of the heart, lungs, and liver, or active as in sexual excesses, and by changes in nutrition in such affections as chlorosis, anaemia, and Bright's disease. The exciting causes of inflammation come from outside the body and may be mechanical, as in the case of lacerations or foreign bodies, thermal as in burns, chemical as in the use of caustics, or infective from the action of germs. Or they may come from inside, as in the case of fistulse, where decomposing urine or fteces may irritate the mucous membrane, or in septic, carcino- matous, or other ulcers, from which the putrid or purulent discharges flow over the surface. Not unfrequently a vaginitis arises by extension from the neighbouring surfaces of the vulva, cervix, or body of the uterus. It is probable that in nearly, if not quite, all cases the causa causans is a micro-organism, but much work yet remains to be done before this can be looked upon as scientifically proved. Vaginitis may be divided into catarrhal, exudative or pseudo-membranous, ulcerative, and specific. 1. Catarrhal vaginitis is by far the most common form; it may be acute or chronic, and is characterised by alterations in the secretion, and by redness and sometimes swelling of the mucous membrane. The secretion shows changes in quantity and in quality; in some cases there is an increased desquamation of the squamous epithelium cells in the form of thick, white flakes like milk curds, and in other cases the discharge of serum is increased, and gives rise, with these whitish masses, to a more or less milky, serous fluid. In acute infective processes suppuration occurs, and causes the discharge to take on a yellowish tinge; the more acute the process, the more yellow and purulent is the secretion. The vaginal mucous membrane varies in appearance with the age of the patient and the acuteness of the process. In acute cases in young women the whole surface is diffusely reddened; but careful examination shows even here that the redness is more marked on the summits of the folds of the mucous membrane. The redness varies in shade in different cases, and there is sometimes a slight bluish tinge added to it. It may be equally diffused over the whole vagina or may be limited to a part, especially near the entrance or at the upper part of the posterior wall. In milder and more chronic cases red spots and streaks are the only signs, and these spots are specially marked in the vagina of old women where the general surface of the mucous membrane is smooth and yellow. The redness may be due to congestion, and disappear on pressure, or to ecchymosis, in which event the colour does not disappear on pressure (macular vaginitis). In some cases where the inflammation is more intense, and especially in pregnancy, the spots form distinct prominences (granular vaginitis). Rarely, a little fluid accumulates in the spots (vesicular vaginitis) ; as a rule, the vesicles have no special importance, but they have occasionally been found in conjunction with skin pemphigus. Occasionally, in more chronic conditions, there is hypertrophy of the papillary bodies, and the epithelium becomes secondarily hypertrophied, so as to form small white, firm, warty eleva- tions, which are found scattered over the vagina or portio, feeling like grains of sand (warty vaginitis). This condition is usually, but not always, a gonorrhoeal affection, and is especially met with during pregnancy. Sometimes, especi- ally in elderly women, but occasionally also in younger ones, erosion of the epithelium covering the red spots takes place so as to lay bare the inflamed papillae, which may then become ad- herent to similar spots on the opposite wall by fine bands or memlaranes, easily breaking down, with slight haemorrhage, under the pressure of the examining finger (senile adhesive vaginitis). In addition to the increased redness of the mucous membrane, there is sometimes, especially in young women with acute catarrh, distinct oedematous swelling; in such cases tlie lining of the vagina is of soft, velvety consistence. Microscopically, vaginitis is characterised in the more acute forms by injection of the blood- vessels, and by diffuse infiltration of the papillae with small round cells, which are also found wandering through the epithelial layer in con- siderable numbers. The red spots above de- scribed are found to be due to increased vascu- larity and infiltration with round cells of a group of papillae. The individual papillae in such a group swell laterally and tend to become con- fluent, and also extend vertically, so as in some cases to become prominent above the surface. The epithelium covering such a spot may become thin, allowing the red colour of the papillae to shine through, or may be thrown off, so as to lay bare the papillae ; or, in more chronic cases, may become greatly hypertrophied and thickened so as to form warty elevations.