"XAXA" 564 grains. " Xaxaquin " is the quinine salt of the same ; dose, 3 to 6 grains. Xenia,.—Telegony as it is met with in plants (Gr. ievia, the state of a guest). See Heredity {Telegony). Xeno-.—In compound words xeno- (Gr. ^evos, a guest or stranger) means strange or foreign, e.g. xenogenesis (heterogenesis). Xenonnenia. — Vicarious menstruation, or periodic haemorrhage from some other part of the body than the uterus taking the place of the menstrual discharge. See Menstruation (Vicarious). Xenon.—A gas forming a very small pro- portion of the atmospheric air; it has only recently been differentiated from nitrogen. Xero-.—In compound words xero- (Gr. irjpos, dry or parched) means dry, e.g. xerotripsis (dry friction). Xeroderma or Xerodermia. See Ichthyosis {Symptoms, Xerodermia). Xeroderma Pig^mentosum. See also Skin, Pigmentary Affections of [Neoplastic Type, Xerodermia Pigmentosum); Tumours of THE Skin {Carcinoma); X-Rays {Therapeutics). —A rare disease which commonly commences in the first or second year of life and progresses continuously. It commences with freckle-like pigmentations, surrounded in a year or two by telangiectases; this is followed by a gradual disappearance of the latter and the occurrence of cicatriform depressions ; there is finally a diffuse atrophy of the skin. New pigment spots continue to form, so that a given case usually presents all types and grades of lesions. The general health seems to be unaffected. The etiology of the disease is quite unknown. The pathology probably begins as a proliferation of connective tissue in the papillary layer with involvement of the vascular endothelium, followed in some points by retraction and in others by both ectasis and new formation of vessels. Kaposi, who first named and de- scribed the disease, considers that the irregular accumulation of pigment is consecutive to the vascular changes. The diagnosis has to be made from scleroderma and lepra maculosa. The prognosis is guarded; there is a distinct tendency for the disease to assume a malignant (sarcomatous) form. Most cases succumb in from ten to twenty years. Treatment is purely palliative. Xeroform.—An odourless powder con- taining oxide of bismuth and tribromphenol; it has an antiseptic action ; dose, 7 ^ grains. Xero ma. See Xerophthalmia. Xeroplltliaimia. — A dry and thickened state of the conjunctiva occurring as a sequel to long-continued conjunctivitis of a severe type. Xerosis. See also Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Degenerations, Xerosis Conjunctive); Cornea {Kerato-malacia, Xerosis bacillus).—Xerosis is a term applied to a condition of skin inter- mediate between ichthyosis simplex and keratosis pilaris. The skin is dry, harsh, and void of the natural moisture and lubrication. The skin surface is finely scaly, and in some instances the passage of the hand over the skin surface will cause separation of scales in a fine shower. In other cases the scales ai"e more definitely adherent. The eruption is most frequently seen in the extremities, but all parts of the skin may be involved. The disease is met with in all grades, being sometimes only indicated by a very dry finely scaly condition of the skin of the face, and at the other extreme by a state of "goose skin" appearance, characteristic of mild cases of ichthyosis. The treatment and prognosis are similar to those of ichthyosis, to which article the reader is referred. One word, however, may be said re the etiology of this affection, supplementary to what has been written re the etiology of ichthyosis. The present writer believes that xerosis, ichthyosis, and allied disorders are disorders largely due to some defect in metabolism of fats in the body. Further, that this defect is closely re- lated to a defect in the bone-marrow function. And, further, that both of these defects are in turn related to, and in great part dependent on, a chronic auto-intoxication from the alimentary tract, or one of the other free mucous surfaces of the body. This view may or may not be correct. In all cases, however, the practitioner is directed to a close investigation of the func- tions of the free mucous surfaces of the body, more especially the oro-, gastro-intestinal, and respiratory mucous membranes, with the view of correcting any defect that is there discernible on careful investigation. Xerostomia or Xerostoma.—Ab- normal dryness of the mouth; aptyalism. See Salivary Glands, Disorders of {Xerostomia). Xiphi-OrXipilO-.—In compound words xiphi- or xipho- (Gr. ^i^os, a sword) means relat- ing to the ensiform cartilage of the sternum; e.g. xiphicostal (relating to the ensiform cartilage and to the ribs), xiphodynia (pain in the ensi- form cartilage), etc. XiphiSternum.—The ensiform carti- lage of the sternum ; the xiphoid cartilage or process or appendix of the sternum. Xiphodymus or Xiphodidy- mus. — A teratological type in which two foetuses are united so that their pelvic and thoracic cavities are fused ; there are usually