127 TUBERCULOSIS but many pathologists consider that they are active products of tissue reaction, and have defensive and perhaps reparative functions. The giant cell of tubercle is large, rounded, or oval, with a crenated edge, from the promin- ences of which processes pass to join the support- ing network or reticulum of the tubercle. It is multinucleated. The nuclei are flattened, with their long axes arranged radially, and are placed near the periphery of the cell, or clustered at one pole, this appearance to some extent depending on the plane of section. Occa- sionally the nuclei lie irregularly in the cell— for example, in small young giant cells. If bacilli are present they may be demonstrated near and between the nuclei. The protoplasm takes ground stains better at the periphery than in the centre, indicating the presence of some necrotic action at the centre. Origin of Giant Cells. — Giant cells may develop in several ways. 1. By excessive pro- liferation of a single endothelioid cell; the stimulus being so strong that the nuclei divide far more rapidly than the protoplasm, and tend to gravitate to the surface of the cell, seeking nutrition. This is the most generally accepted explanation. 2. By coalescence of a number of endothelioid cells, those in the centre becoming necrotic. Occasionally appearances are met which sup- port this explanation, and there seems to be no reason why it should not hold good in some instances. 3. The appearance is due to the proliferation of the endothelial cells of a blocked capillary, belonging either to the lymphatic or blood vascular system. 4. Gaule and J. Arnold have shown that in tuberculous disease of organs containing epi- thelium, the epithelial cells begin to proliferate and may yield epithelioid and giant cells (Thoma). The striking appearance of the grey tubercle containing the giant cell has led to this being looked on as characterising tuberculous forma- tions, but as similar giant cells are met with in other chronic inflammatory changes, they must not be looked on as absolutely essential com- ponents of the miliary tubercle. Even when the various components of the tubercle are arranged in the characteristic manner described, one can look upon this picture as sufficient to stamp the disease as tubercle only, if, in ad- dition, the presence of the typical tubercle bacillus is assured. For example, experimental inoculation of "butter" bacilli in guinea-pigs produces similar morbid processes, differing only in the presence of polymorphonuclear leucocytes and fibrin, and the absence of giant cells, though lymphocytes and endothelial cells abound. Moeller's bacilli also produce a generalised condition in guinea- pigs, macroscopically and microscopically re- sembling ordinary tuberculosis. Yellow or Caseating Tubercle. — Round the original " grey " tubercle others soon form, and all of these being non-vascular the central part of the enlarged nodule tends to undergo the peculiar necrotic change—caseation—so com- monly met with in tuberculosis. In "caseation," or "cheesy transformation," death of the cells takes place comparatively slowly, so that in addition to coagulative necrosis there is time for some fatty degeneration to occur. This change converts the central part of the tubercle into a structureless, homogeneous, or finely granular material, in which none of the indi- vidual components can be distinguished. The cell breaks down, though particles of nuclear chromatin may long persist and still take hsematein or anilin stains. This is the yellow or caseating tubercle. This morbid change may extend by formation of grey tubercles around until a large area of the tissue or organ becomes caseous. The caseous part tends usually to undergo lique- faction, producing a tuberculous " cold " abscess, or, in an organ such as the lung, bringing about excavation, the central softened material escaping by way of a bronchus. It is believed (Prudden) that liquefaction pre- supposes a "mixed infection," the chemical products of the tubercle bacillus being able to cause caseation, whereas other organisms, such as micrococcus tetragenus, streptococcus, etc., are required to bring about the further change. The destructive process does not by any means always take place. Frequently the diseased area becomes enclosed by formation of fibrous tissue walling it in, rendering it quiescent and innocuous. Under favourable circumstances the caseous area becomes dried up, and forms a soft whitish mass in the midst of pigmented scar tissue, or calcareous deposit may take place in it. In these collections fragments of tubercle bacilli may, with some difficulty, be demon- strated. In experimental tuberculosis in refrac- tory animals the bacilli may become enclosed in concentric layers of a homogeneous substance in which calcareous deposit occurs. This drying up with fibrosis or calcification is nature's method of cure, and is frequently referred to as evidence of the curability of tuberculosis scars containing evidence of old tuberculosis being met with in from 20 to 50 per cent of all persons dying from other diseases. Chronic Tuberculosis. — Acute lesions may become chronic from encapsulation by fibrous tissue, or lesions may be chronic from the outset. In cases where the bacilli are of moderate virulence, or where the individual attacked has great power of resistance, infection results in formation of connective tissue rather than in caseation. Giant cells are usually found, it being permissible to regard these as indicative