ULE 219 hence ulemorrhagia (hsemorrhage from a cica- trix), ulerythema (erythema with the formation of cicatrices, such as ulerythema centrifugum or lupus erythematosus). Ulexine.—An alkaloid (C11H14N2O) got from ulex europoeus, which has been used as a diuretic and local anaesthetic. UI it is.—Inflammation of the gums (Gr. ov\a, the gums). Ulna,.—The inner one of the two bones of the forearm; ulnar or ulnaris is the adjective signifying belonging to the ulna or to a structure (nerve or artery) which is related to that bone. See Fractures {Radius and Ulna); Arteries, Ligature of (Ulnar); Nerves, Peripheral {Diseases and Injuries of Special Nerves); Tabes DoRSALis {Symptomatology, Ulnar Symptom of Biernacki). UiO-.—In compound works ulo- (Gr. ovAov, the gum, ov\-r], a scar ; or oiJAos, fleecy or woolly) means usually connected with the gums, but in some words it means scar-like and in others fleecy, e.g. uloncus (swelling of the gums), ulorrhagia (bleeding from the gums), uloder- mitis (inflammation of the skin with cicatrices), and ulotrichous (having woolly hair). Ultra-.—In compound words ultra- (Lat. ultra, beyond) means excessive, beyond measure ; e.g. ultrahrachycephaly (an extreme degree of brachycephaly), ultramicroscopie (a microscope for seeing objects measuring only the millionth part of a millimetre in diameter), ultraquinine (homoquinine), etc. Ultra-Violet Rays. See XRays {Nature and Production). Ultzmann's Test.—A test for bile pigments, which in solution give an emerald green colour when treated with caustic potash and excess of hydrochloric acid. Ululation.—Howling or hooting like an animal, e.g. in hysteria (Lat. ululare, to howl). Umbilical.—Related to the umbilicus or to the vessels and cord which are associated with it. See Umbilicus. Umbilicus, Diseases of. HEMORRHAGE ...... 219 Sepsis and Infective Processes 219 Eczema ....... 220 Syphilis 220 Fistula ....... 220 Persistent Omphalo-Mesenteric Duct . 220 Tumours ...... 220 Benign ...... 221 Malignant . . . . . 221 Hernia and Exomphalos 221 See also Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis of {Umbilical Region); Cretinism {Description, Umbilical Hernia); Embryology ; Fcetus and Ovum, Development of {Umbilical Cord); Gall- bladder AND Bile Ducts, Diseases of {Con- genital Obliteration of Bile Ducts, Umbilical Haemorrhage); Haemophilia ; Heart, Physi- ology of {Embryology); Hernia (Varieties, Umbilical); Labour, Management of {Tying Cord, etc.); Labour, Precipitate {Ruptiire of Cord); Labour, Prolonged {Pelvic Deformities, Prolapse of Cord); Labour, Faults in the Passenger {Cord); Labour, Accidental Com- plications Affecting the Child {Abnormalities of the Co7-d); Labour, Injuries to Generative Organs {Inversion, Causes) ; New-Born Infant {Cord, Management, Umbilical Infections, etc.); Pregnancy, Physiology {Local Changes, Ab- dominal Wall); Pregnancy, Diagnosis {Funic Souffle) ; Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta and Cord ; Urachus {Tumours). Haemorrhage. — This may occur immediately after birth from slipping of the cord ligature. A more important kind is spontaneous hsemor- rhage occurring usually about the fifth day, when the cord separates; it may occur, how- ever, as early as the second or as late as the fifteenth day. Some of these cases have a hcemophilic ancestry; in a few congenital syphilis is present; by some observers imperfect closure of the umbilical vein has been thought to be the cause (hsemorrhagic fistula). Male children are affected in 75 per cent of the cases. The result is usually fatal. In about half the cases jaundice is present with subcutaneous hsemorrhages or purpuric spots in different parts of the body. In some cases there has been loss of blood from the rectum, bladder, or gums. The treatment is unsatisfactory, the hasmor- rhage being usually stopped, but after a time recommencing. Pressure and various styptics have been tried: cauterisation is inadvisable. Underpinning, or some method of ligature, seems to have been most successful. Possibly the administration of calcium chloride and the local use of suprarenal liquid might be useful. Sepsis and Infective Processes.—It cannot be too strongly insisted that the ligature and subsequent treatment of the cord stump should be conducted on ordinary antiseptic principles. Inflammation at the umbilicus (omphalitis) in the new-born may be slight, or may go on to ulceration, cellulitis, gangrene, general septi- caemia, or pyaemia, this last condition depending probably upon the passage of septic thrombi by the umbilical vein to the liver, lungs, or else- where. Erysipelas or general pei-itonitis may occur, and are almost universally fatal. Severe icterus neonatorum is due to umbilical septic- aemia. Diphtheria has aff"ected the umbilicus alone with a fatal result. In tetanus neona- torum the umbilicus is probably the point of