376 UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE are allowed to remain in situ forty-eight hours, and are then carefully removed. Each method has its advocates, and there are advantages and disadvantages associated with both. The em- ployment of clamps materially shortens the operation. The writer, after a careful trial of both methods, prefers to ligature the main vessels and employ the clamps or forceps for the posterior septal flap. After the operation the anterior and posterior flaps fall into apposition and unite in a few hours, so that it is not necessary to suture the flaps, which is moreover a dangerous practice, for it obstructs the escape of serum and blood, which may ooze even after the most carefully executed operation. After-Treatment.—This is carried out on the same lines as those adopted for ovariotomy: the vagina needs to be considered in addition ; for instance, the gauze may be changed in thirty-six or forty-eight hours. When forceps or clamps are used they require to be taken away with the following precautions:—The patient's thighs are slightly raised and the knees gently separated, then the handles of the forceps are gently unlocked and the blades de- tached by a gentle twisting movement. Should bleeding occur in attempting to remove a clamp, it should be relocked and left for a few hours longer. The temperature after vaginal hysterectomy often rises in consequence of the sloughing of the ligatured or compressed tissue : it may rise as high as 103° Fahr. and the discharge become offensive. When this happens the vagina should be gently mopped out with small dabs of wool steeped in an antiseptic solution. By the ninth day some of the ligatures come away, and as a rule most of them are detached by the twentieth day. The patient is usually able to leave her bed about the end of the second week. The HisJcs of Abdominal Hysterectomy.—The dangers are those common to all pelvic opera- tions, such as shock, bleeding due to the slip- ping of badly applied ligatures, injury to the intestines, and particulai-ly the bladder and ureters. Peritonitis may arise from failure in the prepai'ations or contamination from the septic contents of the uterus, or dabs and instruments left in the belly at the time of the operation. Later complications are suppuration, either in connection with the abdominal wound or from the bed of the cervix; thrombosis of the pelvic veins leading to oedema of the lower limb is a troublesome complication, and embolism has been a fairly frequent cause of death. Cystitis may arise from two causes: the careless use of the catheter, or suppuration around a ligature involving the bladder, and occasionally actuallj' penetrating this viscus. Intestinal obstruction may follow this opera- tion, due either to adhesion of the bowel to the stump in the pelvis or to the line of the abdominal incision, but it is fortunately rare. The JiisJcs of Vaginal Hysterectomy.—The chief of those are injury to the bladder or the ureters, injury to the rectum, sigmoid, csecum, or small intestine, bleeding due to an artery slipping out of a ligature or the grasp of the forceps and retreating in the tissues. The Sequelae.—The more important are vesi- cal and ureteral fistulge, sepsis, and fatal peri- tonitis, death from intermediate and secondary bleeding or from suppression of urine due to accidental ligatui-e of the ureters, thrombosis of the pelvic veins and oedema of the limb, em- bolism, this is rare, and intestinal obstruction due to adhesions, but this is very unusual after vaginal hysterectomy. Mortality.—The life risks of hysterectomy vary with the skill of the operator and the character of the case. In skilled hands the risk of abdominal hysterectomy for cancer varies from 5 to 10 per cent, in unskilled hands it may reach to 30 per cent. In vaginal hysterectomy for cancer the life risk in experienced hands varies from 2 to 5 per cent. In unskilled hands the risk to life is not much greater, but the chances of damage to bladder, ureters, and bowel are much increased. VI. Uterine and Ovarian States, Insanity associated with There certainly exists a definite relationship between the healthy growth, development, and function of the reproductive organs and the healthy development and discharge of the cere- bral and mental functions in both men and women. But in women one can go still further, and say that in many cases full physical and mental development is not complete until the reproductive oi-gans have discharged their func- tion in the reproduction of the race. There is an acknowledged difference between the mental characteristics of the old maid and the mother of a family. It is by no means so certain, how- ever, that there are such diseases as uterine in- sanity and ovarian insanity. The terms uterine insanity and ovarian insanity do not convey to one any definite clinical picture, as, for in- stance, the terms mania or melancholia do convey. 1 do not believe that the most skilful alienist, after an exhaustive examination of the women patients in all the asylums in Great Britain, could classify one of them with any certainty as a case of ovarian or uterine insanity. There are well-recognised mental symptoms which are regarded as dependent upon certain changes in the uterus and ovaries, and for purposes of reference these conditions can be most concisely mentioned under the following divisions:— 1. Mental symptoms liable to occur during the period of physical development. I