411 VAGINA, DISORDERS OF THE material, and carefully supervised, may be worn by a patient for years without any evil effects arising. In some cases, but then usually only after the body has remained in position for some time, serious and even fatal consequences may ensue. By pressure a local ulcer may arise, which in turn becomes infected by germs and transformed into a spreading ulcer; the ulceration extends deeply into the surrounding tissue, and may even penetrate neighbouring organs, the bladder, the rectum, or a higher part of the intestinal tract, or even the peri- toneal cavity. Bridges of connective tissue may form and imprison the foreign body, and polypoid growths of the cervix or vaginal walls may arise. Putrid and purulent discharges are common. After the removal of the body urinary or fsecal fistulse may persist, and contraction of scar tissue may take place and give rise to stenosis or to complete atresia, and their conse- quences. In several cases carcinoma of the vagina has appeared to be caused by the long- continued irritation of a pessary. Treatment is required to prevent evil conse- quences arising from the use of a pessary; this includes, besides the correct sort of material and form for the instrument, constant attention to cleanliness, and regular supervision by the physician, who should remove and examine the pessary once in every two or three months; any pain or irritation should lead to a prompt examination. The treatment of neglected cases consists in the removal of the foreign body, a proceeding often giving rise to much difficulty and anxiety ; in counteracting the evil effects that have arisen from the presence of the body ; and in the attempt to prevent injurious con- traction of the resulting scar tissue. Acquired Stenosis and Atresia of the Vagina.—In their eifects, symptoms, and treat- ment, these conditions present many points in common with the congenital affections of the same name (vol. iii. p. 448). It is probable that many of the so-called con- genital cases are really acquired either during intra-uterine.life or in childhood. In the adult the chief source of these conditions is severe labour and its consequences, especially septic infection supervening on breaches of surface and leading to extensive ulceration or even gangrene of the vagina. Sometimes constriction is set up by other causes, as for instance by foreign bodies, the application of strong caustics to the cervix or vagina either for legitimate medical treatment or by criminal abortionists, or it may be due to septic infection of operative wounds on the vagina. As a result of some of these causes scars of varying thickness and extent are found in the vagina. These may take the form of longi- tudinal bands, frequently extending upwards from the neighbourhood of the pubic ramus ; or they may be present as semilunar folds or as complete rings round the vagina giving rise to annular stricture. The lumen may be almost completely occluded by a thin membrane with a small opening through which a fine probe passes with difficulty, or it may be reduced to a more or less narrow canal by a broader scar surrounding it for some distance. Complete atresia may similarly be due to a thin membrane or to a scar several centimetres in thickness, or finally the whole tube may be completely destroyed. Urinary Fistula.—Urinary fistulse may be caused by the misuse of instruments, such as blunt or sharp hooks, in effecting delivery, or more frequently by pressure necrosis in severe cases of obstructed labour. Sometimes the vesico-vaginal wall is perforated by foreign bodies such as ill-fitting pessaries or by stone in the bladder. Of recent years a prolific source of urinary fistulaj has been the great increase in the number of operations on the genital organs, and especially of total extirpations of the uterus. The position of the fistula varies. The most common form is the vesico-vaginal fistula where the bladder is affected ; this may extend so far downwards as to implicate the vesical opening of the urethra, or so far upwards as to involve the cervix. The urethra alone may be affected (urethro-vaginal fistula); the fistula may in- volve the cervix, either along with or indepen- dent of the vagina (cervico-vesical fistula and cervico-vagino-vesical fistula). Uretero-vaginal fistulse are also far from rare, especially as the result of vaginal hysterectomy. Urinary fistulse are usually single, but occa- sionally more than one is present. The vesico- vaginal form is the most frequent; its borders may be sharp and well defined, or may be thickened and sometimes widely surrounded by scar tissue. In size the fistula may vary from an orifice so small as to admit a fine probe with difficulty to the size of a threepenny piece or a florin, or even larger. Sometimes in large fistuhe laterally situated the ureter is found opening in the wall. Cervico-vesical fistulse affecting the upper part of the cervix are always small. Uretero- vaginal fistulse appear either as small clefts with sharp edges or as openings on small elevations ; those arising from labour are found near the side of the cervix in a depression running out- wards from the external os or a little behind this level. In these fistulse the vesical end of the ureter frequently tends to become obliter- ated. In the puerperium urinary fistulse usually become much smaller, and the process of con- traction continues until the borders are covered with epithelium. Affections of the upper urinary tracts—dilatation of the ureters, pye- litis, stone in the kidney, abscesses, and so on— are not infrequently met with, especially in fistulse of some standing, and are of great im- portance as influencing the prognosis, especially