395 VACCINATION since 1858. In 1899 the total Force was 201,004: (India, 67,697; Home, 99,832; Egypt, 3959). There were two smallpox deaths, one in India, and one in the non-Enropean troops in West Africa. In India, Egypt, and West Africa there is always a large amount of smallpox in the native populations. But for vaccination and revaccination probably no European country could hold India, the loss of life in the Army from smallpox would be so enormous. In the Home Force for 21 years up to 1899 there was an annual death-rate from smallpox of "076 per 10,000. In the colonies the rate was 038 per 10,000, in India it was nearly -7 per 10,000; in Egypt there had been twenty-five deaths in the British troops in the course of thirteen years. The evidence in the support of vaccination being so overpoweringly strong the questions arise: How can any one refuse to accept it 1 What is the secret of the resistance to vaccina- tion 1 The first point to notice, in trying to answer these questions, is that the number of people practically acquainted with smallpox who do not believe in the protective influence of vaccination is so small as to be in elFect non- existent. No one has ever heard of an anti- vaccinist who had held a post at a smallpox hospital, or had had large experience of small- pox in any other way. The anti-vaccinist as a rule has only studied smallpox from afar, in the safe seclusion of the British Museum Readino; Room or of his own study. In the second line of the party stands the impenetrable body of cranks, the people who cannot accept evidence, and who cannot distinguish between small evils and great ones. To them a sore arm for a few days seems as important an evil as smallpox itself. Behind the cranks there is the great mass of uneducated people who are against vaccination because it gives them a little trouble, some restless nights, and because they do not realise what smallpox really is. They have heard of or seen cases in which vaccination has done harm. It is easy to sympathise with this group of objectors. It must be admitted that a large part of the opposition to smallpox is based upon evil results which have sometimes followed the operation, and which have been due for the most part not to the compulsory law but to its faulty administration. Many of the deaths ascribed to vaccination have pi-ob- ably had nothing whatever to do with it; but on the other hand we have to recognise that infants of three months old are very sensitive creatures, and that as an undigested mass of casein or other food in the stomach may cause a convulsion in one child, an inflamed arm may possibly do the same in another, and that in a third both conditions may exist, and that they may combine to do the mischief. Eruptions and Injuries after Vaccination. —Vaccination is occasionally followed by erup- tions. Some of these follow a pure vaccine inoculation, and they may occur immediately after vaccination or soon after the development of the vesicles. Many of them are probably due to reflex nervous influences, others to secondary local inoculations, or to absorption of virus from the developed vesicles. Bearing in mind the powerful influence that vaccination exerts over the organism for a series of years, it is not remarkable that it should occasionally disturb the nutrition of the skin and other organs, and interfere for a time with the vital chemistry of the individual. On the other hand, many cases have been recorded in which the constitutional change started by vaccination has appeared to be beneficial, as for instance in the sudden disappearance of an extensive eczema after vaccination. Few of the eruptions due to a pure vaccine inoculation need be regarded with anxiety. They are rare, and for the most part trivial in character. Other eruptions are due to a mixed infection either at the time of vaccination or subsequent to it, but through the wounds. Much may be done to prevent eruptions of this class by guarding the vaccina- tion wounds with care, and by using only lymph from which extraneous germs have been re- moved. Even as regards vesicles which may be called normal, considerable variety in the rate of healing and in the degree of the sur- rounding inflammation of the skin may be seen. This variety probably depends more on the vital condition of the patient than upon any- thing else. Vaccination vesicles should be well and soundly healed before the end of the third week, but the power and rate of healing vary much in diff'erent individuals. Generalised vaccinia usually results from auto-inoculation. Dr. Acland has recorded a remarkable case which resulted in death. It may depend upon an abnormal absence of vac- cinal immunity. "It is certain that during the first week after vaccination a person may be readily revaccinated or may contract smallpox, for it does not appear that any considerable degree of immunity is established till after the pocks have reached maturity. Immxinity prob- ably reaches its maximum about the fourth week after vaccination, but the standard of re- sistance varies in each individual, and probably also with the dose and activity of the virus." ^ In the fatal case above alluded to pocks con- tinued to form for thirty days or more, showing the absence of immunity. The same condition may have been the explanation of the case in the Gloucester epidemic, in which a child de- veloped fatal smallpox twelve days after being successfully vaccinated. The problems of in- fection and immunity are vital, not mathemati- cal, and they manifest from time to time the variations proper to all vital processes. Another case illustrating the same truth has been re- 1 Vaccinia in Man, J. D. Acland, M.D., p. 29.