TUBERCULOSIS 132 in this situation, and by fibrosis may lead to stricture of the bowel. In adults, tuberculous strictures occur rarely in the small intestine, resembling closely, to the unaided eye, malignant growths. The large intestine may show ulceration similar to that found in the ileum, but it may escape even in cases where the ileum is exten- sively diseased. Fistula i?i ano is sometimes tuberculous in nature, and if so, resists attempts at cure. Liver.—Tuberculosis of the liver is always secondary, and may be miliaiy or caseous, in both cases being usually accompanied by a generalised tuberculosis. Small grey tubercles are most numerous im- mediately underneath the capsule ; but though they are apparently not so numerous, to the naked eye, on the cut surface, when sections are examined microscopically, minute tubercles may be found in enormous numbers, in all stages of development. The liver presents one of the best opportunities for examining the microscopic structure of early tubercles. They are best seen near the portal spaces, apparently developing in connection with these. Some observers are of opinion that the epithelioid cells of the grey tubercle may develop from the liver cells themselves. Benda considers that spread occurs chiefly along the bile-ducts. The yellow tubercle breaks down early, and whether caseous or forming an abscess, is always bile-stained like any other necrotic area in the liver. Spleen.—Acute miliary tubercle and caseous tubercle are met with. In the former case, occurring along with generalised miliary tuberculosis, the tubercles, which usually occur in the neighbourhood of arteries, may be distinguished from enlarged Malpighian bodies, which have a similar seat, by their projection on the freshly cut surface, the retraction of the splenic pulp pushing them upwards. In caseous or chronic tubercle the cut surface is covered with large yellowish masses which may be softening at their centres. They are prominent, the splenic tissue retracting on section, and have to be distinguished from the nodules of lymphadenoma. This form occurs mostly in children in whom the abdominal glands are tuberculous (Coats). Supra-Eenals.—In Addison's disease the pre- vailing anatomical feature is enlargement and tuberculous caseation of the supra-renals. Genito-Urinary Tuberculosis is usually associated with disease elsewhere. Chronic tuberculosis of the kidneys is more common in males than females, and this fact has been taken by some observers (Weigert, Coats) to indicate that in most cases it originates in the testicle, or rather epididymis, and spi-eads thence upwards. Supposing that this were the case, one would expect that simultaneous affec- tion of the kidneys would be common, whereas the disease is usually more advanced in one kidney, or may be confined to one. Benda states that the disease starts in the duct-like structures in the kidney—the collect- ing tubules—and he has demonstrated bacilli in the cells of these parts. Most pathologists consider that the bacilli are conducted to the kidneys in the blood stream, and that grey tubercles and then yellow caseous tubercles are formed in the usual way. In acute generalised miliary tuberculosis the kidney is usually less affected—to the naked eye—than spleen or liver. In advanced cases, whichever be the manner in which the infective agent is brought, the result is the same. All stages of tuberculosis are seen, from the grey miliary tubercles to the softened caseous tubercle, discharging into the pelvis of the kidney. The process may go on until the whole kidney is converted into a multilocular cyst, lined by caseous material, the fibrous cyst wall showing little kidney substance. This condition is known as chronic tuberculosis of the kidney, renal phthisis, or scrofulous kidney. It is rare to find the perinephric tissue affected. From the kidney substance the condition spreads by direct continuity to the pelvis and ureter. The accumulated caseous products may block the ureter at its lower end, so that the renal pelvis with the cavities opening into it and the ureter become distended—hydro- nephrosis being superadded. The wall of the ureter becomes greatly thick- ened, and lined by caseous material. When the disease reaches the urinary bladder its spreads over the mucous membrane, and in time may reach the other ureter and extend up it by way of the lymphatics, contrary to peri- stalsis and current. The mucous membrane of the pelvis of this kidney is first affected, and the disease possibly spreads up the collecting tubules, gradually extending outwards. One kidney with its ureter may, however, remain for long free from disease, and carries on the functions of both. Extension may continue downwards, so that tubercles are found along the urethra, and even in the glans the writer has found early tubercles beneath the mucous membrane. It attacks prostate, producing caseous tubercles, extends to the seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia, finally producing tuberculosis of the epididymis and testis. Although Benda and his co-workers look upon primary tuberculosis of the epididymis as ex- tremely rare, there seems no doubt that the disease may originate here, the bacilli being carried thither in the blood stream, and it may also commence in the vesiculse seminales. From these situations it spreads upwards to bladder,