UNCONSCIOUSNESS 231 to an over-production of toxic substances in the body and eliminated in the urine. The dyspnceic and gastro-intestinal forms of ursemia are some- times seen in the insane, but it is with the comatose and convulsive types that asylum physicians have mostly to do. Other auto-in- toxications, due to the over-production of physiological and pathological products of the organism, are (Van Giesen) hydrothioneemia, ammonisemia, acetonuria, diaceturia, cystinuria, etc., also diabetic coma, coma carcinomatosum, etc., and Basedow's disease.^ Malaria is some- times attended with or followed by extreme collapse, coma, or delirium, epileptiform or tetanoid convulsions, or various mental symp- toms. Simple uncomplicated attacks of malaria are rarely followed by such affections ; but when the nervous system has been weakened by syphilis, alcohol, and various excesses, not only is some neurosis likely to supervene, but it is likely to be of a serious, intractable nature. Simple cases, where no other factor than malaria has been present, generally recover. ^ (For an account of the various alterations of conscious- ness occurring in association with or following various fevers and bodily diseases, the reader is referred to the article on "Post-Febrile Insanity" by the writer, in Tuke's Dictionary of Psycho- logical Medicine.) Drugs are productive of loss of consciousness and severe or fatal coma. Of these drugs the following must be referred to briefly :— Alcohol may cause convulsions, epileptiform or apoplectiform seizures with coma. In mania due to alcohol, convulsions may be so severe as to lead to a fatal result from syncope or coma. The occurrence of these seizures, together with inequalities of the pupils and various indications of paralysis, have frequently led to a faulty diagnosis of general paralysis. The apoplecti- form, or more particularly the epileptiform attacks, differ in certain respects from those occurring in general paralysis, and the pseudo- general paralysis due to alcohol generally ends in recovery. Lead poisoning is also sometimes attended by not only a progressive physical and mental decay, but also by acute delirium or convulsions which may prove fatal. The various epileptic or eclamptic disorders due to lead are apt to be followed by dementia and symptoms which have been mistaken for those of general paralysis, and to these cases the term saturnine pseudo- general paralysis has been applied. When the cases progress unfavourably the end is usually due to convulsions and coma. Other intoxica- tions due to morphia, cocaine, absinthe, ether, chloral, haschisch, tea, nicotine, oxide of carbon, are commonly met with, and may be character- ised by vertigo, syncope, delirium, epileptiform 1 See also article "Urine," Tuke's Dictionary of Psychological Medicine, by Blyth and Hyslop. Hyslop, " Malaria," Z)ic/!. Psych. Med., p. 756. or apoplectiform seizures, or other derangement of consciousness. Lastly, unconsciousness may be induced arti- ficially by hypnotism {see article " Hypnotism "), or by anaesthetics. U ncontrol la,ble.—Not to be restrained, e.g. the uncontrollable impulses towards suicide, drinking, and lust seen in cases of insanity; also, the grave forms of disease, such as the uncontrollable vomiting of pregnancy or hyper- emesis. See Pregnancy, Affections and Com- plications {Digestive System, Uncontrollable vomiting). Uncus.—A hook or hook-like process. See Unciform ; Uncinate. Underhung Jaw.—A lower jaw which projects beyond the upper jaw. Underpinning^. See Umbilicus, Dis- eases OF {Hoemorrhage, Treatment by Under- pinning). Undue Influence. /See Lunacy(T^^7^ making). Unduiant Fever. History and Geographical Distribution 232 Etiology ...... 232 Pathology 233 Prognosis ...... 234 Diagnosis ...... 234 Symptoms 234 Treatment 237 A^ee also Malaria {Diagnosis); Tropics, Un- CLASSED Fevers of {Non-Malarial ^'■Remittent" Fever). Synonyms.—Mediterranean, Malta, rock, Cyprus, Neapolitan, Cretan, etc., fever, from its geographi- cal distribution ; intermittent typhoid, recurrent typhoid, typho-malarial, etc., from its resem- blance to typhoid fever; gastric remittent, bilious remittent, or simple remittent fever, from its remittent character; simple continued fever from its lengthened course and want of definite symptoms. Definition.—A pyrexial disease, endemic in certain localities, having a long and indefinite duration, with a tendency to undulatory waves of temperature. History.—There is very little doubt that Hippocrates in his Epidemics, about B.C. 450, described this disease. The next accounts of this fever that are in any way reliable we get from French military surgeons during the French occupation of Malta (1798-1800). During the earlier part of the nineteenth century we get numerous accounts of this fever by naval and military surgeons serving in the Mediterranean, which are chiefly of interest in showing the extreme difficulties they experienced in classifying the fevers they met with. In the