TUMOURS OF THE SKIN 173 solution of thiosinamin.i Twenty minims are injected at a time with a hypodermic syringe at various points along the border of the lesions, once or twice a week. In this way good results have been obtained in Dr. Radcliffe-Crocker's clinic. Multiple scarification—mincing up the scar really—has been recommended, but it is painful, as are also local creasote injections. Electrolysis is also useful—at any rate it acts beneficially where the irritation and pricking is a marked feature. Keloid complications C? really hypertrophic scarring in some cases) have been observed as a result of syphilides. I have myself seen it follow ulcerative secondary lesions. An exten- sive case of the kind has been recorded by Arthur Shillitoe. These growths may or may not dis- appear under specific treatment. Hypertrophic scarring is well known in bad cases of acne vulgaris. And in this place the acne keloid of the occiput, in which tufts of hairs project through the thickened scar, may be alluded to. It is the result of longstanding suppurative folliculitis of this part, to which Kaposi has given the unwieldy name of derma- titis papillaris capillitii. The process may be associated with severe acne vulgaris and sycosis barbae. Hypertrophic scarring may also be a sequela of other eruptions. N^vi have been dealt with under " Electro- lysis " (vol. iii. p. 66); and Moles have been considered under "Tumours " (p. 163). A point to bear in mind is that nsevi may give rise to cancers, and moles to melanotic malignant growths. As to the treatment of ngevi, it is sometimes possible, where the situation and size are favour- able, to obtain a cure by vaccinating upon them with due care. In dermatological literature numerous cases of extensive naevi and moles have been recorded, but they need not detain us here. Lymphangiectodes, also known in this country as Lymphangioma circumscriptum (Malcolm Morris), is an affection which was first described by English writers. It is a local- ised disease consisting of closely aggregated deep-seated vesicles looking like frog-spawn, occurring in patches about various parts of the body—face, lip, neck, trunk, and limbs, but limited to one region. Apart from the grouped vesicles, these may also occur scattered about in twos and threes. They vary in size from a large pin-head to a hemp seed or so; and may be either colourless, pinkish, or red, or even of 1 I am indebted to Mr. Harold Wilson, Teacher of Pharmacy, University College Hospital, London, for pointing out that 8 is a better solution than 10 per cent, as in the latter the thiosinamin is thrown down in part and necessitates heating of the solution before using, whereas an 8 per cent solution remains clear. The for- mula is: Thiosinamin, 8 parts; glycerine, 20 parts; sterilised (distilled) water, 72 parts. a blackberry hue (heemorrhagic). They may occur as closely aggregated lesions, situated on an infiltrated patch, of a fibro-fatty consistency to the feel. Vesicles of a similar nature have also been observed on the conjunctivae and tongue, and when pricked lymph-like fluid flows. The disease begins in infancy or early life, and is chronic. Microscopically, the striking features in the sections are the dilated, cystic- looking, lymphatic spaces in the corium. The designation of lupus lymphaticus em- ployed for this condition by Hutchinson is mis- leading, for the disease has nothing whatever to do with lupus. The treatment is to excise the patch or destroy it with caustics. In either case a recurrence may take place in the neighbour- hood of the resulting scar. RadclifTe-Crocker has had some success with electrolysis. But it may be wise to leave it alone altogether, unless thorough excision can be carried out. In the latter case this might be followed up by grafting with the whole depth of skin from elsewhere, according to the method of Wolff; or even Thiersch-grafting might be tried. It would depend on situation and other circumstances. Lymphangioma tuberosum multiplex was the name first used by Kaposi for another unusual condition, and although subsequent research has shown the condition to arise from the blood- vessels of the skin, and not to be of lymphatic origin, it is as well, perhaps, to stick to the original accepted designation rather than adopt such a name as haemangio-endothelioma tuber- osum multiplex. The disease is a very rare one, and consists of nodules about the size of lentils or larger; round, or, in the case of the larger ones, oval ; of a yellowish to brownish red hue and smooth surface. They are moderately elevated above the level of the skin. In distribution they may affect the front of the body, upper part of chest, the back of the neck. The disease usually begins in childhood or youth, but it may begin later in life. The nodules increase slowly in numbers and more slowly still in size. Microscopically, the striking feature is the number of cyst-like formations containing a colloid mass. Descriptions vary according to authors, but the growth appears to be really an endotheliomatous one springing from the vessels. It must be distinguished from epi- thelioma, adenoides cysticum, or, as Unna has named it. Acanthoma adenoides cysticum. Myoma Multiplex Cutis.—This is another very uncommon disease. It has been especially studied by Besnier. These small tumours of the skin vary roughly from a pin-head to a bean in size, and firm to the touch. They are some shade of red or yellowish-red in colour, but they may be pale like the skin. The growths are usually grouped. They have been observed on