THYROID GLAND, SURGERY OF 23 and not to bruise the gland by any rough handling of it. The gland is best separated from its surroundings by means of the forefinger. Then the vessels supplying the gland are to be secured. The superior thyroid arteries with their accompanying veins are usually easily secured. The artery enters the apex of the lobe on its inner border and upon its anterior surface. It is much smaller than the inferior thyroid, and should be tied with a double silk ligature. Sufficient tissue must be left between the two ligatures to render that on the distal side of the tumour secure from slipping when the intervening portion is cut through. Some veins are usually found passing from the middle zone of the lobe to the internal j ugular. Under normal conditions of the gland these veins are small and insignificant; but when the thyroid is enlarged from goitre they are often large, and should be carefully sought for, isolated, and tied with double ligatures of silk, the distal ligature being applied as far from the junction with the internal jugular as possible. In se- curing these veins great care must be taken not to injure the internal jugular vein, which, distended with blood, and sometimes consider- ably displaced, has from time to time been punctured. The group of veins lying on the trachea, included under the name of inferior thyroid, which empty themselves into the in- nominate, must be secured and divided between two ligatures. Sometimes a thyroidea ima artery is found also lying on the trachea, passing from the isthmus generally to the arch of the aorta, and may also require to be tied. It should now be possible to dislocate the gland towards the middle line for the purpose of finding and ligaturing the inferior thyroid artery. The inferior thyroid is a much more difficult artery to secure than the superior. It is a much larger vessel, deeply situated and distri- buted upon the posterior surface of the gland. It is not, as a rule, accompanied by a vein, but occasionally a middle thyroid vein may leave the gland close to the spot at which the inferior thyroid artery or some one or other of its divisions enters the gland. It is best to tie the inferior thyroid artery after it has divided into branches as near as possible to the tumour, and any veins may be secured in the same ligatui-e. The inferior laryngeal nerve has a close but not a constant relation to the inferior thyroid artery, usually lying superficially to the vessel, but sometimes passing beneath it, and occasion- ally being found among its branches. Great care must be taken not to injure the nerve at this stage of the operation. The isthmus has now to be dealt with. Along its borders run branches of the superior and inferior thyroid arteries, inosculating with those from the opposite lobe. Upon the surface of the isthmus some veins may generally be seen. These vessels should all be ligatured, after which the isthmus may be divided with scissors. In some cases it has been found convenient to divide the isthmus before tying the inferior thyroid artery, more particularly in those where the isthmus is bulky. The only connection now to be dealt with is that between the trachea and the otherwise free lobe which is to be removed. In separating this often tough connection there is often danger of dividing the recurrent laryn- geal nerve. During the performance of the somewhat prolonged, it may be, operation of thyroidectomy, every precaution and care must be taken to keep the wound aseptic. No bleeding vessel, however small, artery or vein, should be left unligatured. All clots must be removed by gentle sponging. If it has been found necessary to divide muscles they must be as accurately as possible sutured with catgut. The skin wound should be closed with horse- hair sutures, and it is best to drain the large and somewhat irregular wound by means either of a tube or piece of gauze. Healing should take place very quickly without constitutional symptoms. Adenomatous Tumours.—Adenomata occur commonly in the thyroid gland. They vary considerably in size and number, and one or more may exist in one or both lobes. Occasion- ally an adenoma is found developed in the substance of the isthmus. They are usually cystic, and then may grow to considerable dimensions. Bland Sutton, in his work on tumours simple and malignant, gives a drawing of one successfully enucleated by T. Burns, which reached as low as the umbilicus. Whether solid or cystic they are always encapsuled, and should, except under very exceptional circum- stances, be removed by enucleation. It may be necessary to remove the lobe in which a number of cysts are grouped together, on account of the serious bleeding which would attend an attempt to enucleate them one by one, but enucleation should always be preferred when practicable. Whenever an adenoma, solid or cystic, gives rise to dyspnoea, it should always be removed. Though causing no inconvenience, if they should be considered unsightly, if they be increasing in size, or in order to prevent their becoming the seat of inflammation or of the extravasation of blood into them, which is not so very uncommon an occurrence, particularly in the cystic variety of the disease, they should either be enucleated or left alone. A cystic goitre should not be tapped. To enucleate an adenoma, whether cystic or solid, the capsule of the thyroid gland must be exposed much in the same way as when a part of a lobe is about to be excised. In enucleation the capsule of the thyroid and the thyroid tissue lying over the adenoma have to be divided. Before doing this, however, any veins on the surface of the thyroid, in the line of incision, should be tied with double silk ligature and divided. Then the superjacent