199 TYPHOID FEVER A slight fall in temperature when the rash comes out is favourable and often persists. A high temperature of 105° is much less serious when it occurs early in the disease than late. A temperature is often raised by retention of urine. An early tendency to considerable morning remission is favourable. Persistence or increase of pyrexia after the twenty-first day or thereabouts is unfavourable, and especially if the temperature rise higher than before. A fall in temperature without a fall in the pulse-rate is mostly followed by a rapid re-rise in temperature and increased severity of symp- toms. Obstinate resistance to antipyretic measures indicates usually a severe case. Hyperpyrexia is always grave, but is nearly always due to some local complication or to septicsemia. Rigors do not affect the gravity of a case in themselves, but when they arise from severe complications or septic absorption, the prognosis is necessarily serious. Delirium, etc.—Liebermeister found only 3'5 per cent of cases without noteworthy brain symptoms died; 19*8 per cent of cases with mild delirium died, and 70 per cent of those with stupor or coma. Jenner asserts that 50 per cent of those with severe delirium die. As Hare observes : " Much depends on individual tendencies and on the febrile movement, and he adds that the mental state is a fair index of the severity of the malady." But too much reliance must not be placed on this. Severe delirium is often re- covered from, and without other grave symptoms is not of serious import. And cases may die of asthenia with the mind clear to the end. Severe tremor was regarded by Jenner as indicative of deep intestinal ulceration; it is also producible by severe toxaemia; in either case it implies gravity of the case. Albuminuria of more than slight amount is unfavourable, so also is glycosuria. Nephro- typhoid is said to be always serious; the one case observed by the author recovered. Retention of urine is of little import unless neglected, when toxic symptoms may result from it which, added to those of typhoid fever generally, may be fatal in effect. Pregnancy and the Puerperal State.—Typhoid in early pregnancy usually leads to abortion, but after the sixth month pregnancy usually continues if the typhoid is recovered from. Pregnancy adds to the danger of the patient, but the author's experience agrees with that of Murchison that it is a less serious complication than might be imagined ; in the early months abortion is often recovered from, and in the late months pregnancy continues and the child is born alive. The specific bacilli have been found in the foetus. In the puerperal state the fatality is '50 per cent. Hasmorrhage.—Epistaxis in the early stage is not unfavourable, but, coming on late, it or any other hsemorrhage (apart from melsena) indicates grave blood deterioration and a severe type of case. It has been suggested that the prognosis may be based on the intensity or reverse of Widal's serum reaction, but this is not practicable or of any service. Toxaemia is one of the chief dangers in typhoid fever. In some cases the well-known signs of the typhoid state terminate in death, but may be recovered from ; in others, especially in protracted cases, the tongue does not become dry nor the temperature high, but the patient drifts into a condition of anaemia, great tremu- lousness, rapid pulse, clammy sweats, sunken belly, and pinched face, with blueness of ex- tremities, the mind remaining clear throughout, or there may be rambling. Such conditions are very unfavourable in prognosis, death occur- ring from bloodlessness and exhaustion. Treatment. — Prophylaxis of typhoid fever consists in measures for ensuring the purity of water supply, the perfection of systems of drain- age or of other methods of disposal of excreta, and the improvement of sanitary conditions in general, details of which cannot be dealt with here. To the attention given to these points is mainly due the lessened mortality from typhoid fever in England, the returns of the Registrar- General showing a diminution from 390 persons in each million living in 1869, to 173 per million living in 1899. The preventative treatment by inoculation has received extensive trial in the South African campaign, and is said to lessen the susceptibility to the disease and to lighten its severity. Re- liable statistics on these points are not available. In any attack of typhoid fever in a private dwelling (or elsewhere) inquiry should be made as to its sanitary condition, which may, if defective, be prejudicial to recovery and in- crease the danger of infection of other persons in the house. Defective drains become much more dangerous when a case of typhoid occurs. The danger of contagion being imparted to others is small if those who attend upon or come in contact with the patient or his excreta be careful to secure ample ventilation, to im- mediately disinfect all excreta and soiled linen by carbolic acid, and to thoroughly and fre- quently wash their hands with disinfectants. In treating typhoid fever it is desirable to know what ai'e its chief dangers. Perforation of intestine causes about 18 per cent, melsena about 15 per cent of the deaths. Other local complications, pneumonia, etc., may bring the deaths from local causes to at the most 50 per cent, so that at least 50 per cent of deaths in I typhoid occur from general conditions, asthenia,