249 UREMIA and intractable; they differ from similar con- ditions of rheumatic origin in presenting but little change with climatic alterations; small traces of albumin and low specific gravity may aid the diagnosis, but the position of the apex beat, the sounds of the heart, especially the accentuation or reduplication over the pulmonary valves, and alterations in the pulse, increase of tension, or the characteristic sphygmographic tracing, are to be regarded as of greater value. In advanced cases of chronic nephritis, short- ness of breath on exertion, tendency to recurrent cough, and occasional attacks of spasmodic dyspnoea, can only be attributed to urtemia, in the absence of physical signs of cardiac or pulmonary aifections, or when the symptoms persist in spite of improvement in the physical signs. Usually symptomatic treatment is first adopted, although a provisional diagnosis of ursemia may have been made, and it is only when the ordinary remedies fail to give relief that increasing confidence is felt in the theory of toxfemia, and a change of treatment may give surprising benefit. Similarly, dyspeptic symptoms, vomiting, and diarrhoea may be mistaken for the results of local lesions of the stomach or intestines ; the absence of physical signs of tumours connected with the stomach, the sigmoid flexure, or the rectum, helps to differentiate ursemia from malignant diseases of these organs, and greater certainty may be attained by the examination of the vomited materials, or by testing for fx-ee hydro- chloric acid after the removal of the contents of the stomach. The wasting, pallor, and weak- ness of advanced nephritis resemble those re- sulting from malignant growths. It must be admitted, however, that in chronic ursemia the symptoms so frequently resemble those due to other causes, that, in spite of the utmost care, it may be advisable to await the results of treatment before expressing a definite opinion as to the nature of the case. Prognosis.—The prognosis of ursemia is always serious. The immediate danger depends upon the type of ursemia, and also upon the form of renal disease. Symptoms of acute ursemia necessarily cause great anxiety; death may ensue in the course of the first convulsive attack, but it more commonly results from exhaustion, when numerous attacks are repeated at short intervals. In scarlatinal nephritis the prognosis is somewhat more hopeful than in the more ordinary form of acute nephritis ; in both conditions the prognosis is influenced by the rapidity with which the coma passes off, and by the speedy re-establishment of the renal excretion. When convulsions occur with chronic nephritis they may similarly prove fatal during the first attack, and although in exceptional cases the end may be remote, it usually occurs within a few weeks or perhaps months. In such cases the prognosis will be based upon the degree of stupor or coma after the convulsive seizures, and upon the general characters of the urine. Respiratory and digestive disturbances, in- dicative of chronic ursemia, always justify an unfavourable prognosis. The immediate dangers of ursemic dyspnoea are sufficiently obvious, while vomiting and diarrhoea, even when not direct preludes to convulsions or coma, reduce the strength greatly and thus increase the risks. Giddiness, headache, neuralgia, and even amaurosis indicate progressive stages of ursemia ; but, unless accompanied by a rapid diminution in the specific gravity or in the amount of the urine, they may improve greatly with treatment, or they may remain with little variation for months or even years. Treatment.—In the article on nephritis will be found a full account of the measures ordinarily adopted to prevent the occurrence of threatened ursemia; it may, however, be useful to give a brief summary here, and to mention the special treatment which may be employed for individual symptoms. Threatened ursemia entails the use of dia- phoretic measures or drugs, of hydragogue purgatives, and occasionally of diuretics. Free diaphoresis is favoured by hot-air baths, hot- water baths, and by the wet pack, hot or cold ; the action of these may be promoted by copious draughts of water, taken, for instance, while having a Turkish bath. In very exceptional cases when these diaphoretic measures fail, or when they increase headache, a very small dose of pilocarpine may be injected subcutaneously to initiate diaphoresis. This drug should, how- ever, only be employed on great emergency, and it should never be used when the patient has pulmonary oedema, and is already unconscious. Diaphoretic drugs are seldom employed in the early stages of ursemia, as many exert a stimulating action upon the renal vessels which is undesirable. Ammonium acetate has fallen into disfavour since the suggestion that ursemia might be due to ammonium compounds in the circulation. Of the hydragogue purgatives jalap and scam- mony are the most useful; the official com- pound jalap powder is frequently administered. Elaterin is sometimes recommended ; croton oil is ordinarily reserved for patients already coma- tose. Calomel should be avoided when the urine contains blood, though in other cases it may be of service. The convulsions of acute ursemia may be con- trolled by the administration of chloroform; chloral hydrate and potassium bromide have been given with the same object. When in spite of these measures convulsions occur in rapid succession, the subcutaneous injection of morphine has been advised. This treatment is generally thought to be extremely hazardous; many observers maintain that it increases the