9 THYROID GLAND, MEDICAL SECTION the hsemoglobin may fall to 60 or 70 per cent, or even as low as 40 or 50 per cent. Haemor- rhages are not uncommon, especially from the uterus at the menstrual period or during par- turition. Bleeding may also take place from the nose, gums, throat, or bladder. Digestive System.—Constipation is a common symptom, and dyspepsia occurs in some cases. The teeth are generally brittle and carious. The tongue is distinctly swollen in some cases. Haemorrhoids are often present. Urine.— The urine is usually normal in char- acter. In some advanced cases the urine has a low specific gravity, varying from 1"008 to 1"018. In about one-fifth of the cases a small amount of albumin is present. If no renal disease is present the albuminuria disappears along with the other symptoms under treatment. Morbid Anatomy.—The Thyroid Gland.— The thyroid gland is much diminished in size, and the weight is reduced in advanced cases to from fifty to seventy grains, or only about one- tenth of the normal weight. It is pale in colour and tough, and fibrous in consistence. Micro- scopical examination shows that there is a more or less advanced atrophy of the glandular epithelium, with general fibrosis of the whole gland. In advanced cases only a few alveoli may remain lined with epithelial cells and filled with colloid, while in some very advanced cases the whole gland is converted into fat and fibrous tissue, and not a single alveolus can be found in transverse section of one lobe of the gland. Such changes naturally lead to a gradual diminution and final arrest of the secretory activity of the gland. SJcin.—The skin is thickened as in life, and on section is somewhat translucent. The epi- dermal epithelium may be partly atrophied. The trabeculfe in the connective tissue of the corium are replaced by bundles of fine nucleated fibrillse, and in some specimens the interfibrillar spaces are widened. In some cases there is endarteritis of the vessels. The sebaceous and sweat glands are partly atrophied. The hair follicles are surrounded by nucleated fibrous tissue, which in the later stages of the disease may contract, leading to compression and atrophy of the root sheath and loss of hair. There is a considerable increase of subcutaneous fat in many cases. Nervous System.—No constant changes of importance have been found in any part of the nervous system. The hypophysis cerebri has been found to be enlarged in a few cases, the increase in size being due to hypertrophy of the anterior glandular portion. Circulatory System.—In early cases no special changes are found in the heart or blood-vessels. In advanced cases interstitial myocai-ditis is found, and as a late result of this there may be fatty and fibrous degeneration of the cardiac muscle. Atheroma is commonly found in the larger arteries, and endarteritis in small vessels in all parts of the body. Kidney.—Moderate cirrhosis of the kidney is frequently found, and with it there may be hypertrophy of the left ventricle of the heart. Pathology. — General Pathology.—In con- sidering the physiological functions of the thyroid gland we have already seen that rayxoe- dema can be induced in lower animals by removal of the thyroid gland. In man we also know that primary niyxoedenia is always the result of destructive disease of the gland, and secondary myxoedema only occurs as the result of the removal of the gland by operation for goitre or malignant disease. We shall also see, in considering the treatment, that the symptoms of the disease can be entirely removed by main- taining a constant supply of the secretion in the form of thyroid extract. It is thus evident that the symptoms of the disease in man are solely and entirely due to destruction of the thyroid gland, and the consequent lack of an adequate supply of its seci'etion to the blood. Chemical Pathology.—In the early stages of myxoedema there is probably an increase of the intercellular ground substance in the skin, which yields an excess of mucin. An excess of mucin was found by Dr. Charles, who examined the skin in Dr. Ord's first recorded case. In other cases, however, no excess has been found, probably, as Professor Halliburton suggests, because the patient died in the atrophic stage of the disease. The same observer has found an excess of mucin in the tendo-Achillis and in the cardiac tendons. The parotid gland in one case yielded 0-188 per cent of mucin, whereas in health it contains only a trace. Diagnosis.—In a well-marked case of myxoe- dema diagnosis is easy, and can be readily made from the description of the appearance and symptoms already given. It is, however, im.- portant to bear in mind that in the early stages of the disease the appearance is much less characteristic, and the symptoms are much less obvious, so that slight cases may be easily over- looked. Languor, loss of energy, and loss of memory generally occur early, and in a middle- aged woman should always arouse a suspicion of myxoedema. At an early stage some swelling of the face, hands, legs, or feet can generally be detected when looked for, and the skin will be found to be drier than it should bo. If any doubt exists as to the nature of the symptoms, a course of treatment with thyroid extract will soon settle the question. If there is myxoedema these symptoms will gradually disappear in the course of six or eight weeks' treatment; if not, no improvement will be observed. From renal disease, myxoedema may be dis- tinguished by the solidity of the swelling and by the absence of albuminuria, or at most the presence of only a trace of albumin in the urine, but it must be remembered that in some cases