230 UNCONSCIOUSNESS roused, but soon he becomes utterly unconscious. The pupils may be natural, irregular, and in- sensitive to light, contracted when the haemor- rhage is into the pons, or dilated especially towards the fatal end. The occurrence of coma implies either a large effusion of blood or effusion into some vital part. Effusion into the pons is usually attended by convulsions and profound coma and paralysis, especially if the hsemorrhage is great in extent. Hsemorrhage into the cerebellum is attended by severe occipital pain, vomiting, etc., and giddi- ness rather than actual loss of consciousness. Thrombosis and embolism, causing obstruction of one of the cerebral arteries, is attended by symptoms closely resembling apoplexy, and, as in apoplexy, the characters of the symptoms vary according to the size and distribution of the vessel affected. In embolism the obstruction almost invariably occurs in the middle cerebral artery, or one of its branches, and is attended by more or less complete hemiplegia, etc. The prognosis is usually unfavourable, and seldom are the effects of thrombotic or embolic soften- ing completely recovered from. When con- sciousness is interfered with the intellect is apt to fail until dementia supervenes. Coma is more strikingly characteristic of haemorrhage than plugging. T%imours in the brain are usually attended by vertigo, headache, vomiting, paralysis, convul- sions, and spasms, and various intellectual and emotional disorders. The convulsions may be epileptiform, but, unlike true epilepsy, un- attended with loss of consciousness, or later unconsciousness may come on. Sometimes the earliest indications of cerebral tumour may be momentary attacks of incoherence, aphasia, or loss of consciousness, or attacks stimulating hysterical fits or apoplectic seizures. Failure of memory and mental hebetude go on to fatuity and dementia. The diagnosis of the site of a tumour must depend upon anatomical and physiological considerations, and the patho- logical nature of the growth upon other con- siderations, such as arise in connection with tubercle, syphilis, aneurysms, malignant growths, and hydatids. Functional disturbances of the brain may be evidenced by drowsiness, epileptiform or apo- plectiform seizures, or coma. The modes of onset differ somewhat from those due to effusion of blood, in that the paralysis is more general and attended with fiaccidity, acceleration of the pulse, and rise in temperature. These comatose attacks occur in association with lateral and disseminated sclerosis, occasion- ally in children, and simulating meningitis, and especially in general paralysis of the insane. The congestive seizures occurring in general paralysis of the insane may be epileptiform or apoplectiform in character. Epileptiform seizures vary in severity from petit mal to epilepsia gravior. They may occur at any stage of the disease, but more commonly they occur when the disease is advanced. A succession of seizures results in the status epilepticus well known to all asylum physicians. Sometimes with even severe epileptiform seizures conscious- ness is retained. The number of seizures may amount to several hundreds daily. Quasi-syncopal attacks are also not uncommon. Apoplectiform seizures may occur with or with- out convulsions; they are less frequent than the epileptiform, and may or may not be attended by temporary paralysis, of which the most common is a partial or incomplete hemi- plegia. Various simple paralytic seizures also occur, but almost invariably the paralysis clears up and vanishes in a few days.^ Auto-intoxications^ niay occur from suppres- sion or disturbance of the functions of an organ. Affections of the various glands, with or without pathological lesions, may give rise to symptoms which are attended by or culminate in loss of consciousness. Myxoedema, cachexia strumi- priva, diabetes, acute yellow atrophy of the liver, and Addison's disease, may be productive of attacks varying from partial loss of conscious- ness to complete coma. Gout and oxaluria, etc., depend upon absorption of faulty products of metabolism, and may be attended by affections of consciousness. In carbonic acid poisoning, ursemia, and eclampsia gravidarum, the products of metabolism are apt to be retained in the different organs. Huppert arrived at the con- clusion that albumin appears in the urine after every well-marked fit of epilepsy, and the more severe the fit the more abundant the albumin. Mere cases of epileptic vertigo may be quite unattended by this phenomenon unless the attacks follow one another rapidly. Albumin- uria is more common in paralytic insanity than in any other cerebral disease. De Will found albuminuria after the convulsions of general paralysis, while Konig, Richter, and Mendel, on the other hand, usually found it absent. The writer ^ has elsewhere stated that renal disease is associated with affections of consciousness in two ways: (1) acute transient delirious mania, an acute toxaemia, or ursemic insanity ; and (2) a progressive cerebral degeneration, with chronic renal disease as the primary cause. In this latter type the mental symptoms during the earlier stages vary from a mild dementia to mania or delirium. In due course, however, complete dementia, not unlike that of general paralysis, results. The writer has seen many cases of mania with excitement and even de- lirium, in which the pupils were contracted, reflexes diminished, muscular tremors, and con- vulsive attacks with loss of consciousness, due ' See " General Paralysis." - Van Giesen, Statrfi Hospital Brdlftin, vol. i. ^ "On the Mental Conditions associated with Bright's Disease Ur»mia," Practitioner, November 1901.