121 TUBERCULOSIS potato smeared with glycerine in sealed tubes (Powlowski), and even on other vegetables and vegetable infusions to which glycerine has been added. On these media, however, the bacillus rapidly loses its virulence. Other media will be referred to when treating of the separation of the tubercle bacillus from lesions or fluids. Adult cultures of the Bovine bacillus are somewhat similar to those of the human organ- ism, though for several generations they are very thin and delicate, growing less luxuriantly than the human. They cannot as a rule be induced to develop on glycerine agar. On blood serum, cultures approximate in character very closely to those of the human bacillus. Avian Tubercle Bacillus.—While the bacilli of avian tuberculosis correspond very closely to those of the mammalian type in their micro- scopic appearance and staining reactions, they differ considerably in culture and in results of experimental inoculation. The growth on the surface of blood serum and glycerine agar is much more voluminous, forming soft, whitish, moist masses. The organ- ism grows not only when glycerine is present, but on ordinary agar-agar and beef-broth. It will not grow upon potato. Development takes place at a temperature (43° C.) at which mam- malian tubercle ceases to grow. On experi- mental inoculation, guinea-pigs usually resist infection, and intravenous injection even of large quantities of the avian bacilli in the case of dogs fails to produce any effect. Nevertheless, Nocard has proved that mam- malian bacilli may be modified so as to acquire all the characters of the avian bacilli, so that the apparent diiference evidently depends on environment. Again, tuberculin prepared from avian bacilli has the same action as mammalian tuberculin. Relation of the Tubercle Bacillus to Streptothrix Forms. — While the tubercle bacillus is of greatest importance in the form most commonly met with—that of the rodlet— later researches have shown, apparently on good grounds, that this form may be but an early form of an organism which develops into a more highly constituted filamentous fungus. Some authors have gone so far as to place its adult form in or near the streptothricese or actino- mycetes. Metschnikoff found the organism as short filaments in sputum and in the splenic pulp of tuberculous birds. Fischel and Burns found similar forms, and Burns considered them to be the saprophytic form of an organism whose parasitic form was a rodlet. Metschnikoff, in 1888, proposed to call the saprophytic form Sclerothrix Kochii. Coppen Jones (1895) found similar appear- ances in sputum and in old cultures, and demonstrated dichotomous branching and club- bing. In cultures the filaments were found on the surface of the growth. They contained certain deeply staining bodies, which possessed some of the properties of spores, and he con- sidered that these were of the nature of chlamydospores. Many observers have confirmed these obser- vations. Babes and Levaditi found similar aberrant forms, in rabbits injected with cultures under the dura mater, at the end of four weeks. Friedrich, Nosske and Schtiltze concluded from experiments that such forms developed in lesions caused by injection of virulent cultures. It must, however, be remembered that other bacteriologists, for example, Bostroem and Fischer, looked upon clubbed forms as resulting from a degenerative change in the sheath, whilst others, Lubarsch and Schultz, look upon them as malformations from interrupted growth. Abbot and Gildersleeve (1902) state that other acid-resisting bacilli also present these characteristics, and conclude that as these also produce on experimental inoculation nodular growths with many features in common with the lesions of tubercle and actinomyces, all these organisms ought to be classed together. In the present state of our knowledge, as Bulloch remarks, " however seductive the theory may be that the tubercle bacillus, so called, is really a filamentous fungus with a relatively complicated structure, it is perhaps wiser to wait for more conclusive evidence, as the issues at stake are so vital for the doctrine of the origin and transmission of tuberculosis." Nevertheless, sufficient evidence has been brought forward to emphasise the growing tendency to associate the tubercle bacillus with the streptothricese. Diagnosis op the Tubercle Bacillus.—The difficulties in the way of diagnosing tubercle bacilli from other acid-fast organisms has already been indicated. Bacilli morphologically similar to those of tubercle are found in many non- tuberculous lesions in man. Though as a rule pseudo-tubercle bacilli are less resistant to acids and alcohol than the genuine organism, this is not true of all varieties. A. Fraenkel stated in 1898 that he had re- peatedly found acid-resisting bacilli in the sputum obtained from cases of non-tuberculous gangrene of the lung, and his observations have since been confirmed by Pappenheim and Lydia Rabinowitsch. Lubarsch {B. M. J. Ep., 14th June 1902) shows that these pseudo-tubercle bacilli may occur in a variety of conditions. In a case of gastric cancer, with pleural and pulmonary metastases and purulent bronchitis, accompanied by rapid emaciation, he found acid-resisting bacilli which were innocuous to guinea-pigs. He found similar bacilli in a bronchiectatic cavity; in an abscess near the hip-joint in a child one year old ; in small cystic