194 TYPHOID FEVER For some days he had felt weak, and on the previous night he had been delirious. He died in the hospital the next morning, the autopsy disclosing typhoid ulcers in the intestines, one of which must have perforated two or three days before death. Apyrexial Form.—Cases are recorded which have run their whole course to recovery or to death without any pyrexia. Some such cases have been followed by relapses as in other forms of the disease. S^idoral Type.—Jacqoud has described a form of typhoid under this title, commencing suddenly with severe headache, chills, and sweats; these symptoms may persist a long time, but the disease is usually of a mild type. Jacqoud believes such cases independent of malarial infection. Typhoid Fever of Non-Enteric Form.—There is no doubt that typhoid fever may occur with- out any intestinal ulceration, and that the decrease must be regarded as a blood infection wich local lesions, of which those in Peyer's glands are the most constant. As already said, cases of typhoid fever occur commencing with acute pneumonia, or acute nephritis, or acute meningitis, or affections of other internal viscera. In some of these cases the local affection has been demonstrated to be due to the specific bacillus of typhoid, and the term pneumo-, or nephro-, or cerebral-typhoid has been applied to denote such attacks. Such a nomenclature does not appear necessary or even descriptive of the phenomena that occur, for in such cases the disease does not manifest itself only by these local symptoms, but, as they subside, the more characteristic symptoms of typhoid become manifested, such as large spleen, diarrhoea, and other evidences of intestinal lesions of typhoid fever. Typhoid Fever in Children.—As mentioned under the head of etiology, the disease is not uncommon even in young children. Of the symptoms of onset, epistaxis appears to be less common than in adults, headache is nearly always present, marked somnolence is more common at the onset than in adults, convulsions and nervous symptoms generally are more prominent, and delirium is often one of the earliest symptoms. It is said, but my own experience is to the contrary, that the tempera- ture usually rises more abruptly than in adults. Its range tends to be higher, and it tends to greater remissions, even intermissions, on each day than it does in adults. The decubitus is often on the side. The disease more often runs a short course than in adults. The splenic enlargement is greater and more easily detectable than in adults, often protruding the abdominal wall. According to Hare, constipation specially occurs in children : this is not the author's experience. The rash is usually slight. Perforation and melsena are less common, but by no means unknown in children's typhoid, and the same is true of septic complications. Emaciation pro- gresses faster in children than in adults. Pneumo-typhoid is certainly commoner in children than adults, so also are joint affec- tions as sequelae, while laryngeal affections are rare. The prognosis is less grave in children than in adults. Typhoid Fever in the Aged.—It gets rapidly less common after the age of forty years, but has been seen at the age of seventy-five years. The symptoms are less well marked than in younger persons, and the intestinal lesions probably less severe, but there is a tendency to hypostatic pneumonia and to asthenia, which renders the prognosis more grave than at an earlier period of life. Association of Typhoid with other Condi- tions.—Pregnancy confers no immunity. In the early months typhoid usually leads to abortion, but even when the typhoid occurs in the fourth month, pregnancy may go on to full term, and when occurring in the late months it usually does so and the child is born living and healthy. Freund and Levy record a case of spontaneous abortion at the fifth month, and the typhoid bacillus was found in the placenta, and in the spleen and heart of the foetus. In a case of delivery at the eighth month, the child lived five days, and the bacilli were found in nearly all the viscera. Other similar cases are on record. Lactation.—In a case of my own, a mother suckled her infant through the first twelve days of typhoid without ill result to the child. Other Exanthemata.—There is no immunity conferred to other exanthema. On the contrary, a patient with any of the exanthemata appears to be in a condition particularly susceptible to contract any of the others, and typhoid may be in any of its stages associated with scarlet fever, either coming on first, or the rashes of both being present together. Diphtheria or measles may be contracted by the typhoid patient. Influenza and typhoid are commonly associ- ated. Surgical Operations and Injuries. — I have noticed typhoid fever in such cases too often to account for it by mere coincidence. Diagnosis.—The most characteristic evidences of typhoid fever—the roseolous erviption, the tympanites, the recognisable enlargement of spleen, and Widal's reaction—are not available for diagnosis till after about eight or ten days of the disease have elapsed; the diagnosis at that period is seldom a matter of difficulty, the gradual establishment of a persistent continued pyrexia with the above indications being all that is required. But the diagnosis is often important at an earlier period than this. It must then be based on the step-like ascent of pyrexia, the headache,