87 TRADES, DANGEROUS gums. Where there are no teeth there is no blue line, and where work-people are in the habit of using the tooth-brush I'egularly it may be absent. This circumstance suggests that the coloured line is due to the decomposition of particles of food that have been arrested between the teeth, the development therefrom of sulphuretted hydro- gen, and the reaction of this gas upon lead salts in solution, and the deposition of the insoluble black sulphide in the interior of the cells. Many of my patients have had large, bluish-black patches, the size of a sixpenny piece or larger, inside the lower lip or on the mucous membrane of the cheek, usually opposite a decayed tooth. At autopsies I have found similar large patches in the mucous membrane of the small intestine. A common sign of lead-poisoning is ivrist-drop. In plumbism, as in all forms of paralysis due to poisoning, the loss of power is bilateral. Al- though the wrist-drop is double, one hand is usually more affected than the other. In some instances muscular strain predisposes to the paralysis, but apart from this circumstance, lead itself, quite irrespective of the manner in which it has gained an entrance into the system, is capable of causing the loss of power. The paralysis affects the extensors of the fingers and wrists. Often the index finger escapes. In other instances, both it and the little finger as well as the thumb cannot be extended, nor can the fingers be separated from each other owing to paralysis of the dorsal interossei. What strikes an observer in regard to the double wrist-drop is the utter helplessness of the patient. The hands fall powerless by his sides ; the patient cannot raise a hand unless he places the other underneath it, nor can he pick up anything. Any attempt to extend the fingers and wrists induces marked tremor of the muscles generally, including the flexors, which in time also suffer from loss of power. Preced- ing the paralysis, which may have been gradu- ally or quickly developed, there is sometimes experienced by the patient a sense of tingling or of numbness, but only very occasionally is actual pain complained of. Even when there is pain it is never so severe when the affected muscles are grasped as in peripheral neuritis, due, for example, to alcohol. The muscles sooner or later begin to atrophy. One of the characteristic features of wrist-drop due to lead is that, while the extensors of the fingers and wrists are paralysed, the supinator longus, which is supplied by the same nerve, viz. the musculo- spiral, is not affected. In addition to wrist-drop, two other forms of paralysis are met with: (1) the Duchenne-Erh type, in which the deltoid, biceps, brachialis anticus and supinator longus are affected—a form of paralysis that is usually severe, and (2), the Aran-Duchenne type, in which the small muscles of the fingers, e.g. thenar, hypothenar, and interossei, are affected. The appearances presented by this latter type resemble progressive muscular atrophy, only there are not the fibrillation and muscular tremor, nor the rapid loss of substance so notice- able in progressive muscular atrophy. In severe cases of plumbism the paralysis may extend to other muscles, e.g. those of the feet and toes, so that ankle-drcyp is produced. This form of paralysis constitutes the peroneal type. The muscles of the leg and thigh escape. The common extensors of the toes and big toe suffer so that the individual is unable to bear his weight on the outer border of his foot. When the muscles of the trunk become paralysed the patient is in a sad plight. He cannot turn in bed, he is perfectly helpless. There is a danger of the paralysis extending to the muscles of de- glutition and respiration. In some cases the muscles of the eyeball are affected. In plumb- ism the paralysed muscles lose their response to electrical stimulation. Even under treat- ment, lead paralysis is slow to disappear. The knee-jerk is sometimes absent. Occasionally lead-poisoned patients have symptoms not un- like those observed in tabes. In standing or walking there may be staggering which is aggravated by closure of the eyes, also loss of the knee-jerk. In others the symptoms re- semble those of general paralysis, there being loss of memory, muscular tremor of the lips and tongue, and embarrassment of speech; but instead of these symptoms, as in general par- alysis, becoming worse, they tend to improve under treatment. In chronic cases of saturnine poisoning there is albumen in the virine. Consequent upon the anatomical changes induced in the kidneys and the impairment of their functional activity, structural alterations are subsequently set up in the heart and arteries, not unlike those observed in chronic interstitial nephritis. In the urine there is a deficiency of urea. The nitrogenous metabolism of the body is interfered with, so that where there is a tendency to uratosis, plumbism favours the development of gout. The association of gout and lead-poisoning is observed with much greater frequency in the South than in the North of England or Scotland, a circumstance which suggests that other factors than plumbism are concerned, such, for example, as the habits of the people and the nature of the alcoholic drinks consumed. In women plumbism often induces menorrhagia, and, if pregnant, causes them to miscarry. Female lead-workers, when pregnant, if they wish to go to term and have a living child, should there- fore retire from the factory for a period. Not only does lead induce abortion in the mother, but it causes convulsions in her children. Most of the children of lead-workers die either at birth or shortly afterwards from convulsions. There is a form of acute lead-poisoning which is rapidly fatal. If it is not immediately fatal it is almost sure to be followed by sequelse of