URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 271 shupes and sizes of which it is often possible for the trained eye to recognise the portion of the genito-urinary apparatus from which they are derived. Bacteria of various kinds are met with in the urine either as the result of infection of the urinary tract from without, or of diseases of the kidneys and passages, or, as appears to be the case in typhoid fever and some other infective diseases, of their expulsion from the body by way of the kidneys. In the former case the presence of bacteria is usually associated with evidences of cystitis or other local inflammatory processes, whereas bacteriuria of the latter kind may be attended by no signs of cystitis or pyelitis. Even here the large numbers of bacteria present probably result from tlieir multiplication in the urine itself, only a small proportion of those expelled having actually passed the renal barrier. One of the most remarkable features of the urine is the manner in which its many constitu- ents are all held in solution, and do not mutu- ally precipitate each other, a condition of affairs which is essential to the perfect performance of the functions of the human iirinary apparatus. However, very slight deviations from the normal conditions suffice to interfere with the solution of some of its constituents, as is well exempli- fied by the so frequent deposition of uratic sediments when the urine cools to the tempera- ture of the air, and the effect of increased or diminished acidity in favouring the deposition of crystalline uric acid on the one hand and of earthy phosphates on the other. Hence it is by no means uncommon to meet with some or other of the constituents in the form of sediments, either crystalline or amor- phous, which sediments may have been formed either before or after the liquid has left the bladder. Under certain circumstances small concretions are formed in the kidneys, which may either remain in the renal pelvis, or pass along the ureters to the bladder. Either in the pelvis of the kidney or in the bladder they may increase in size by the deposition upon them of succes- sive layers of the original or of some other material; and by their presence, or in their transit from place to place, they give rise to the familiar symptoms and morbid changes which are associated with calculous disorders. Some accidental constituents derived from foods or drugs produce conspicuous effects upon the urine with which it is important to be familiar, if only that their want of importance may be recognised. In this connection certain colouring matters, such as methylene-blue, may be referred to. The coloration produced by methylene-blue has recently been utilised for the determination of the integrity of the kidneys, by measuring the time which elapses between the injection of a given quantity of the pigment and the appearance of a green tint in the urine. Again, the detection of certain drugs may be of service in ascertaining whether a patient has been taking the medicines in question. II. General Properties of the Urine A necessary preliminary to any examination of the urine for clinical purposes is to take note of certain of its general properties—such as its colour, whether it be clear or turbid, whether it has any striking or peculiar odour, its reac- tion to litmus paper, and its specific gravity, which last, when taken in conjunction with the amount of the daily excretion, affords a rough indication of the quantity of solids which it contains. Quantity.—-The collection and measurement of the total urine passed in the course of the day of twenty-four hours is not only important on account of the variations in quantity observed, but is always desirable in order that from the collected total a fair sample specimen may be obtained, and is essential when any quantitative estimations of its constituents are to be carried out. The average amount of urine passed by a healthy adult in twenty-four hours is taken as being from 1500 to 1700 cubic centimetres, or about 2^ to 3 pints. Thomas states that an adult man excretes about 1 c.c. hourly for each kilogramme of body-weight. Women excrete somewhat less urine than men, and children pass considerably smaller quantities than adults. The quantity varies at different periods of the day, being least during the hours of sleep and greatest after the chief meal or after the free drinking of liquids. Active exertion, by in- creasing the activity of the sudoriferous glands, tends to notably diminish the output of urine. Apart from any obvious modifying conditions, the quantities habitually passed by different healthy individuals differ somewhat widely, and one occasionally meets with persons who, with- out any obvious departure from the standard of health, habitually excrete quantities consider- ably below those usually regarded as normal. C. E. Simon draws an interesting comparison between the estimates arrived at from observa- tions on normal persons in different countries, which reveal differences which he ascribes in part to habits of life and in part to climatic influences. Nervous influences also modify the urinary excretion. Emotions such as fear or anxiety are apt to lead to an increased output, and the same may be observed in cases of hysteria, although hysterical patients occasionally exhibit actual anuria which may persist for some time. In fevers the excretion of urine is usually diminished, partly, no doubt, as a result of cardiac weakness and consequent impaired cir- culation in the kidneys. During convalescence, on the other hand, polyuria is often observed. In acute nephritis the urine is scanty and actual