TUBERCULOSIS 131 quently destroyed, but if the resistance is feeble they pass onwards and are caught in the glands. Similarly they may enter through decayed teeth, or through a moist catarrhal skin surface, and in none of these cases may there be any evident surface manifestation of tuberculosis. They extend along the cervical chain of glands, sometimes missing one or a series, as they appear to be able to "jump" a gland, its sinuses probably being sufficiently wide to allow of their passage. If the condition is not cured by surgical in- terference it may still extend downwards, and a caseous tuberculosis result in the bronchial and mediastinal glands from which the lungs may become affected, and an apparently primary respiratory tuberculosis be really the result of a tonsillar absorption from food. Benda and others disbelieve in tonsillar or cutaneous infections. Bronchial and Root Glands.—In children the writer found that out of 183 cases where these glands were affected, in 123 the glands on the right side were more extensively affected than those on the left. Similar observations have been made independently by Dr. Batten [Barth. Hosp. Rep., vol. xxxi.). Again, a tuberculosis of bronchial glands may e.Ktend by way of anterior or posterior medi- astinal glands—the latter more commonly—to the coeliac glands, and thence to the retroperi- toneal and mesenteric glands. It may also progress in the opposite direction from mesen- teric glands to bronchial. Mesenteric Glands.—These are very commonly affected in children — far more commonly in this country than shown by any post-mortem statistics, because frequently a cure is brought about by suitable treatment, or even without treatment. Wherefore care must be taken not to base our ideas of the prevalence of abdominal tuberculosis upon post-mortem findings only. The mesenteric glands are frequently found affected alone in children. In such a case the bacilli are svipposed to be few in number, and in- sufficient to cause a local lesion in the intestine. They are supposed to be carried by leucocytes through Beyer's patches, and become blocked in the gland. As successive arrivals take place, by summation of their effect they are at last able to cause caseation. If the bacilli are in greater numbers in the intestine they develop in and cause primarily an ulceration of Beyer's patches, then secondarily tuberculosis of the glands in connection with the affected patches. While these lesions may occur from a primary ingestion tuberculosis, they more frequently follow destructive changes in the lungs, from which virulent sputum is swallowed. Glands in connection with the extremities are seldom affected in man. Alimentary Tract.—The lower part of the pharynx, the oesophagus, stomach, duodenum, and jejunum enjoy a comparative immunity from tuberculosis, and are usually affected only in advanced cases. There are many theories to account for this, such as the rapid passage of the contents of these parts, and the acidity of the gastric juice. In addition to these factors, however, one may suppose that the antiseptic power of the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice and of the bile may have some effect in protecting the upper part of the tract, these influences being lost as the ileum is reached. Again, though decomposition of contents takes place normally in the large intestine only, in the presence of the lowered vitality of suscep- tible cases this may occur higher up in the ileum, and pave the way for infection by the tubercle bacillus. In addition the lymphoid Beyer's patches, like the similar structures in the pharynx—the tonsils and pharyngeal tonsils — tend to attract or separate out the bacilli. The principal lesion found is the ulcer of the Beyer's patch, i.e. in the lower part of the ileum, and chiefly in the lowest Beyer's patches. Here, as in other tissues, the grey tubercle is the first manifestation of infection. Several develop in a Beyer's patch, grow, and coalesce. The resulting ulcer is necessarily irregular and its outline is sinuous. The whole Beyer's patch need not be affected. Spread is chiefly by the lymphatic vessels, and as these on the whole take the nearest way to their glands, i.e. round the lumen of the bowel towards the mesentery, the long axis of the ulcer tends to be transverse. In advanced cases the ulcer may encircle the bowel. Seen from the peritoneal aspect the ulcers are recognised as dark areas, mottled with minute whitish spots or streaked with whitish lines corresponding to the tubercles which are spreading in the subserous lymphatics. On opening the bowel the ulcer is seen to have raised, irregular edges, the thickening gradually lessening towards the mucous mem- brane. The base is rough, showing caseous points, and in the ulcer and its edges tubercles may be detected. Microscopically, all around the ulcer tubercles are seen in the submucous, muscular and sub- serous coats. The last-named is practically always thickened, thus guarding against per- foration. In advanced cases the mesentary is thickened and shortened, and the glands contained are enlarged and caseous. Frequently the surfaces of peritoneum become adherent, and the whole contents of the abdomen matted together. In the adhesions, caseous foci and glands are readily made out. Occasionally only the lowest Beyer's patch and a line of glands leading upwards from the region of the ileo-csecal valve are affected. In all cases the disease is commonly most advanced