X-RAYS 569 are two rollers of brass or copper, which are alternately brought into contact and separated by a small electric motor; as the rollers rotate i'lG. (.;. —Mercury jet iiiterrupttr. Turner s Mi d. Elccli icity. the break is constantly made at a fresh point, and the burning away is distributed evenly all round. The rollers must be immersed in paraffin, alcohol, or water. If the noise made by this interrupter be not objected to, it will be found a satisfactory and portable instrument; there is no possibility of short circuiting, and there is no mercury to be oxidised and thrown into waves. Contremoulins and Gaiffe have constructed a rubbing contact interrupter between copper and The supply of electricity for the coil may be obtained from primary cells, from accumulators, or by a branch circuit attached to the electric light mains. Primary cells should, if possible, be avoided; if, however, cir- cumstances compel their employment, five to ten large bichromate or Bunsen cells are the best; the bichromate cells (Fig. 10) may be purchased in sets of five provided with a lifting arrange- ment, and the zincs should only be allowed to remain in the acid solution during use of the coil. The solution will require frequent renewal, and the zincs must be kept well amalgamated. Bunsen cells give a more continuous current, but they have to be set up before and dismantled after every use. Accumulators are much to be preferred; five to ten will be found sufficient; the "q" type of the Electrical Power Storage Company or the lithanode are so sealed as to be fairly portable. Accumulators can only be employed when there is some means at hand for recharging them. If the electric light mains Fig. 7.—Wehnelt interrupter, new pattern. Schall. carbon. A tube of copper is divided longitudin- ally into two halves, and is rotated by a motor; two carbon brushes are pressed by springs against the surface of the copper, the current will pass when both brushes are on the same half of the copper, and will be broken when they are not. By moving one of the brushes the contact can be increased or diminished. The apparatus is immersed in alcohol or paraffin. This is a silent instrument, but as the burning away always occurs at the same place, the brushes and copper cannot last very long. Fig. 8.—Wehnelt spark. Turner's Med. Mectiicity. (continuous current) are laid on, the coil may be fed by placing it on a branch circuit with a sufficient resistance, but one of the high voltage breaks will be required. Schall sells complete