311 URINE, BACTEEIA IN cubated large quantities of the urine directly, found the organism in 6 out of 7 cases, and as early as the tenth day. Their identifica- tion of the bacillus was not as complete as with our present knowledge it might have been, but their large proportion of positive results may have been due, not to error, but to the large quantity of material taken. In addition to the bacteria the urine commonly contains albumin, often in small amount, but it may entirely be absent; a few pus cells and epithelial cells can, however, be always found. In the condition already described there is an infection of the urine, the bacilli multiply in it, but the bladder wall is not obviously affected, and the signs and symptoms of cystitis are practically absent. On the other hand, in a small proportion of cases pus and bladder epithelium may be present in large amount and the symptoms of cystitis appear. Between these two extremes there are cases of every degree of severity. In addition to the cases where the infection seems limited to the bladder, or its contained urine, there are others in which the chief urinary symptoms point to the kidney. Albumin, casts, and perhaps blood appear; hsematuria, indeed, may in rare cases be the first sign of serious illness. It must not be supposed that all cases of nephritis occurring in typhoid fever are due to the typhoid bacilli, for in some of these cases they may be absent from the urine and even from the kidney. There is, indeed, no good evidence to show that the nephritis is ever due to the actual presence of the typhoid bacillus itself apart from its toxin. The changes in the kidney are not restricted to the area of the small lymphoid nodules in which the typhoid bacilli usually lie when present in the organ. Date of Appearance.—With some doubtful exceptions there are no records of the appear- ance of bacilli in the urine before the end of the second week; on the other hand, they may be noticed for the first time three or four weeks, or even more, after the temperature has become normal. The condition, whether of cystitis or merely bacteriuria, has a tendency to disappear spon- taneously, as a rule, in two or three weeks, but this period may be greatly exceeded. Gwynn has recorded a case where the patient suffered from cystitis for four years after an attack of typhoid fever, the typhoid bacillus being re- covered at the end of that time, and Young a case lasting seven years. Houston found this organism in a case of cystitis which had lasted three years and which dated from the time the patient had nursed a child with " diarrhoea." There was no evidence that the patient herself had suffered from typhoid fever. Neumann has tried to prove that the urinary infection coincides with the eniption of the roseola, and now that it is known that the rose- spots contain the specific organism, there can be no difficulty in accepting the view that an overflow of typhoid bacilli into the blood-stream may infect the kidney and the skin simultane- ously. In this case it might be expected that cases would be recorded as occurring earlier than at present is admitted, in a correspondence with the date of appearance of the rash, but it is probable that in the earlier stages of the disease, at the time of the first appearance of the eruption, the bladder is in a condition to resist infection. On the other hand, Osier records 12 cases of typhoid fever in which rose- spots made their appearance during an apyrexial period. These may be taken as analogous to the late appearance of the bacteriuria. In the prevention of the spread of typhoid fever the disinfection of the urine of patients suffering from this disease now plays a large part. The late appearance of the organisms ought to be borne in mind, and an eye kept on the condition of the urine for some weeks after the temperature has become normal. Cystitis and bacteriuria occurring in the course of typhoid fever are not always caused by the typhoid bacillus. The bacillus coli, the streptococcvis pyogenes, and the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus are the more likely foreign organisms to be found, and they may be present in pure culture or associated with the specific organism. The organism can only be positively identified by careful and thorough bacteriological exam- ination. Tubercle Bacillus.—Tubercle bacilli are present in the urine only when there exists some tubercular affection of the genito-urinary tract. Phillippowicz, quoted by Sherrington, it is true, claimed to have demonstrated them in the urine of a case of general tuberculosis in which the kidneys after death showed no tubercular lesions, but this is a solitary exception. In the early stages before ulceration has taken place, of course, they are absent from the urine. Before a negative report can be justified the urine should be repeatedly examined, for when tubercle bacilli are present it may be only in very scanty numbers. They are often found lying together in small clumps of three or four to twenty or more, the intervening parts of the film showing none at all. A large quantity of the urine should be allowed to sediment, or better still, should be centrifugalised. By this latter means tubercle bacilli can sometimes be detected in cases where there is only a very small amount of ulceration, and consequently also of discharge. The smegma bacillus, which is a common saprophyte in the vulvar and preputial secretion, and which is occasionally present in the urethra, adds considerably to the difficulty of making a diagnosis by microscopical evidence alone, since