TONGUE 31 number, lie in the connective tissue beneath the chin, and receive lymph from the tip of the tongue and the region of the frenum. The efferent channels lead to the submaxillary glands. The submaxillary glands occupy the digastric triangle. Some are adherent to the sheath of the submaxillary salivary gland, and some lie in its substance. These glands drain the whole of the front half of the tongue, and are very frequently involved in cases of cancer. The cervical glands, which lie along the line of the internal jugular vein and carotid arteries, ulti- mately receive nearly all the lymph from the tongue, and are consequently those most commonly infected by malignant disease. The large gland which lies at the bifurcation of the common carotid is usually one of the first and most palpably enlarged glands. The parotid and mastoid lymphatic glands may also be implicated in cancer, but this is comparatively rare. Nerves of the Tongue.—The muscles of the tongue are supplied by the hypoglossal nerve. The lingual nerve is the nerve of common sen- sation and of taste to the anterior two-thirds of the tongue. The chorda tympani branch of the facial is also a nerve of taste. The glosso- pharyngeal supplies the posterior third of the tongue with sensation and taste. Its communi- cation with Jacobson's nerve may explain the pain in the ear which so frequently accompanies cancer of the base of the tongue. The superior laryngeal nerve sends fibres to the base of the tongue and epiglottis, hence the frequency with which disease in this position gives rise to reflex cough, hiccough, and vomiting. This connection may also explain how spasm of the glottis and pharynx may be caused by sudden depression of the base of the tongue. On the other hand, the excitation of the respiratory movements when the tongue is forcibly drawn upon may be due to stimulation of the respira- tory centre through this nerve (Laborde) ; obstinate hiccough, too, has been relieved by traction on the tongue (Lepine). Salivary Glands.—The salivary glands—par- ticularly the sublingual and submaxillary glands —lie in close relationship to the tongue, and often share in its diseases. (See " Salivary Glands," vol. ix.) Injuries op the Tongue Lacerated wounds of the tongue most fre- quently result from a bite, as, for example, when a child falls and strikes the chin, the tongue at the moment being protruded between the teeth. During an epileptic fit also the patient may bite his tongue. Punctured wounds are less common. They may be produced by a pipe- stem, a displaced tooth, or a sharp fragment of a fractured jaw being driven into the tongue. Bullets occasionally lodge in the tongue. Clean- cut incised wounds are very rare. When the wound merely implicates the an- terior portion of the tongue the bleeding is seldom serious except in heemophylics. Wounds of the posterior part of the tongue, on the other hand, particularly when they penetrate deeply into the substance of the organ, may give rise to free haemorrhage. If septic complications ensue secondary haemorrhage may prove trouble- some and even dangerous on account of the difficulty of securing the bleeding vessel amongst the soft, disintegrated tissue. This risk is greatest when a foreign body, e.g. a bullet or a piece of pipe-stem, remains embedded in the tongue. Treatment.—Primary haemorrhage should be arrested at once, the patient being anaesthetised for the purpose if necessary. In wounds near the tip of the tongue, after the clots have been removed, the bleeding can usually be controlled by bringing the edges together with stitches. When the wound is situated far back and passes deeply into the substance of the tongue the bleeding point must be secured by a ligature, and to enable this to be done it may be necessary to enlarge the wound. Ligature of the lingual artery in its continuity is seldom called for in cases of primary haemorrhage, but may be necessary for secondary haemorrhage on account of the friability of the tissues rendering it difficult to apply forceps or a ligature to the bleeding point. Septic complications seldom arise if an anti- septic mouth wash, such as weak Condy's fluid or boracic acid, is frequently used. Punctured wounds should be carefully examined lest a foreign body be left embedded. In some cases such an object as a bullet, a needle, or a portion of a pipe-stem, has remained embedded in the substance of the tongue for many months, and has given rise to a firm, indolent swelling closely simulating a solid tumour. Serious haemorrhage may accompany the attempt to remove the foreign body in such cases. Scalds of the tongue frequently occur in children from sucking the spout of a tea-pot or kettle. The pharynx is usually scalded at the same time. The tongue becomes swollen and painful, and if the posterior part is implicated respiration may be interfered with. The injury to the tongue seldom calls for more active treatment than the administration of ice, and the use of an anodyne and astringent mouth wash. Inflammatory Affections of the Tongue Inflammation may affect the whole thickness of the tongue—parenchymatous glossitis; or only its covering epithelium—superficial glossitis. PARENCHYMATOUS GLOSSITIS Acute Parenchymatous Glossitis.—This condi- tion, in which the whole substance of the tongue becomes acutely inflamed and oedematous, is