VITREOUS HUMOUR, DISEASES OF 501 diffuse through the hyaloid membrane and render the whole vitreous turbid and opaque. Treatment.—In non-traumatic eases of haemor- rhage into the vitreous any tendency to con- stipation should first be remedied by the use of saline purgatives. All stooping and straining efforts should be avoided. Iodide of potassium in five-grain doses three times a day is given, partly on account of the gouty tendency of many of these patients, and partly with the hope of promoting absorption of the blood-clots. In the cases where the haemorrhages are recurrent half-drachm doses of the liquid extract of ergot have been recommended. The periodical with- drawal of blood from the temple by the artificial leech, or by real leeches, might also be tried. Foreign Bodies.—Any hard substance, pro- vided it is propelled with sufficient force, may penetrate the coats of the eye and become lodged in the vitreous, but by far the commonest foreign bodies to find so situated are fragments of steel. There are specimens in the Moorfields Hospital Museum showing in the vitreous chamber such strange foreign bodies as three eyelashes carried in by a knife, grains of gun- powder, and a tin tack. Foreign bodies which are loose in the vitreous tend to gravitate to its lowest part, and rest on the non-plicated part of the ciliary body. Occasionally a foreign body may pass right through the vitreous, and escape from the eye by perforating the coats at a point opposite that of entrance. In other cases, when the foreign body is propelled with less force, it may strike the back of the globe, injuring the retina and choroid, and then rebound, ultimately coming to lie in the anterior and lower part of the chamber. If the point of entrance is so situated that in the passage of the foreign body into the vitreous the lens is uninjured, and if it is not lying too far forwards, it may be possible to see it with the ophthalmoscope. It is only in a few cases of injury, however, in which this can be done; in the majority it is very difficult to be sure, from the patient's history and symptoms alone, if simply a punctured wound of the eye has been received, or a foreign body has entered and remained in. The patient usually volun- teers the statement that he does not think there is anything in his eye, because he is unable to feel it,—his idea of a foreign body in the eye being necessarily associated with great discomfort. Accurate knowledge of the presence or absence of a foreign body in the vitreous chamber, if it be metal, stone, or glass, and of its exact posi- tion, can be obtained by the use of the Rontgen rays and Mackenzie Davidson's cross - thread localising apparatus—the measurements after- wards being worked out on a schematic diagram of the eye. The entrance of a foreign body into the vitreous is attended by a certain amount of inflammation of the structures in its vicinity, varying in character and amount according to the nature of the foreign body and the germs which are carried in with it. This inflammation may be localised, and only sufficient to surround the foreign body with fibrous tissue; on the other hand, it may be suppurative in character, and rapidly extend to all the structures of the eye. Treatment.—In a recent case, or one of only a few weeks' duration, in which a piece of iron has become located in the vitreous, its removal should be attempted by an electro-magnet. In some cases, by approaching the eye close to the conical - shaped terminal of a very large and powerful magnet, such as that introduced by Professor Haab, and generally known as the " Giant Magnet," a piece of iron can be drawn out of the eye through its aperture of entrance, or through the suspensory ligament of the lens and pupil into the anterior chamber. From this latter position it can afterwards be extracted, through an incision made with a keratome, by the hand magnet or by forceps. In some cases, after the position of a piece of iron in the vitreous has been accurately localised, it can best be removed through a meridional incision in the sclerotic made in its immediate vicinity by the introduction into the vitreous of the terminal of a hand magnet. A foreign body other than iron which has become lodged in the vitreous can only be removed by grasping it with forceps, a very difficult procedure, but one which is facilitated if the exact position in which it is situated is first determined by the X-rays. Foreign bodies which can be seen with the ophthalmoscope to have become encapsuled, and which are exciting no irritation, may be left in the eye; such cases should, however, be kept under careful observation for some years. Eyes in which a foreign body is lodged in the vitreous, and which are the seat of either sup- purative inflammation or of an inflammation likely to excite sympathetic ophthalmitis, must be enucleated or excised. Parasites. — The parasite which has most frequently been met with in the human vitreous is the Cysticercus cellulosse. Filaria are also described as having been seen, and one un- doubted case of hydatid cyst in the vitreous is on record (Hill Griffith). In this country cysticerci in the eye are ex- ceedingly rare. The writer has only seen two cases. Hill Griffith in Manchester states that he met with 6 cases out of 180,000 patients. In North Germany and Poland cases of this sort are much commoner, due probably to the large consumption in those parts of uncooked meat. The Cysticercus cellulosse is the cystic stage of the Taenia solium, the eggs of which find their way into the stomach either from a worm