URACHUS 243 smaller when the bladder is emptied by the catheter. Its anterior surface is often flat, as it meets resistance from the sheaths of the recti, and so bulges backwards towards the peritoneum rather than forwards. In position it is not always symmetrical, sometimes it lies mainly on one side of the middle line. As a rule, it is only by an exploratory incision that the nature of this kind of cyst can be made evident. Then it will be found that the parietal peritoneum lies entirely behind it. In the female a preperi- toneal cyst may arise from the broad ligament, burrowing forwards and upwards (Wutz or Wolff's case; author), but the base of such a tumour lies in the iliac fossa, not over or behind the bladder. The walls of a urachal cyst may show plain muscular fibre under the microscope (author's case); the urachal epithelium is usually destroyed. Encysted dropsy has been taken for a urachal cyst. Treatment.—When the cyst, owing to chronic inflammatory changes, cannot be enucleated, it must be drained. This treatment answers well in bad cases, but urinary fistula may develop. In Bryant's second case, in Ill's, and in the author's, drainage was followed by closure of the cyst. When the cyst walls are healthy enuclea- tion should be attempted. Tait, Bryant (case 1), and Rotter successfully enucleated the cyst, and had no trouble with the parietal peritoneum. Douglas lost his case of enucleation through sloughing of the large peritoneal flap detached from the back of the cyst. In Ferguson's case the inner wall of the cyst was stripped off almost entirely. Much of the outer wall with the underlying peritoneum was excised, and pucker- ing of the remainder of the wall remedied by suitable application of sutures. The danger of urinary fistula through forcing of Wutz's valve must be remembered, as in operations for urachal fistula. Ill found a short tract of patulous urachus between a urachal cyst and the bladder. He treated this tract as though it were a diseased vermiform appendix, cutting it very short, forcing in the cut edges, and closing them in with a Lembert suture. Excision of a small piece of the walls of the bladder around the inferior attachment of the cyst, as in the opera- tion for fistula, might be still safer surgery in such a case. It should always be practised, if possible, in operations on cysts of the first variety, mentioned above, where the bladder communicates with the cyst cavity from the first. Uraemia. Definition ...... 243 Classification 243 1. Acute 243 Premonitory Symptoms . . 244 Convulsive Attacks . . . 244 Temperature .... 244 Pupils ..... 244 Special Senses . . . .244 2. Chronic ..... 244 Nervous Symptoms . . .245 Respiratory .... 245 Digestive ..... 245 3. Latent ...... 246 Theories, Explanatory .... 246 Diagnosis ...... 248 Prognosis ...... 249 Treatment ...... 249 See also Alcoholism {Acute, Diagnosis); Am- blyopia {Toxic, Uroemia); Asthma {Paroxysm/xL Urcemic Dyspncea, Diagnosis from); Brain, Af- fections OF Blood-Vessbls {Hoimorrhage, Diag- nosis) ; Brain, Surgery op {Compression, Diag- nosis) ; Breath {Odour); Circumcision {Phy- mosis. Complications) ; Delirious Mania, {Diagnosis); Drug Eruptions {Diagnosis from Urcemic Rashes); Headache {Diagnosis of Cause); Hiccough {Etiology); Hydropathy {Indications); Insanity, Etiology of {Urmviia); Kidney, Surgical Affections op {Suppurative Pyelonephritis, Diagnosis); Lardaceous De- generation {Effects); Liver, Diseases of {Cir- rhosis, Sytnptoms); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Com- plications) ; Morphinomania {Effects) ; Mumps {Complications); Nephritis ; Pregnancy, Death During {Causes); Pruritus {Causation of Pru- ritic State); Puerperium, Pathology {Insanities, Causes); Respiration {Cheyne-Stokes Respira- tion) ; Typhus Fever {Diagnosis) ; Uterus, Malignant Tumours op {Cancer of Cervix, Symptoms). Uraemia.—Uraemia is a convenient comprehen- sive term for numerous toxic symptoms met with in the course of several forms of renal disease or in connection with interference with the ordinary eliminative work of the kidneys. The symptoms are, in the main, due to toxic functional disorders of the nervous system, and accordingly are generally of a nervous type, but occasionally they simulate diseases of the respira- tory and digestive systems. Ursemic symptoms may be divided into three broad clinical types :— 1. Acute or fulminating. 2. Chronic, subacute, gastro-intestinal, or respiratory. 3. Latent. 1. Acute or Fulminating Uremia.—This type occurs mainly with acute nephritis, especi- ally when resulting from scarlet fever; it may arise in chronic nephritis, when the urine is reduced in amount, in consequence of a subacute extension of the disease. It often accompanies non-obstructive suppression of urine due to catheterism, abdominal injuries or diseases, or operations upon the kidneys. Severe renal congestion, the result of disease, or of poisons or toxins developed in the course of disease, is also frequently followed by acute uraemia.