461 VICE of drunkenness ; but a great many men and women who drink too much, and who know they drink too much, yet who are not to be called drunkards, illustrate this reaction. For con- venience we may use the term conscience in its loose and popular sense, and take it to embrace not only a sense of right and wrong, but also the sense of what is proper and expedient. Now even an elementary conception of the physiology of mind enables us to understand that the mechanisms of this great group of functions must be widespread and strong, that is, capable of intense and far-reaching activity. The group is, of course, one which subserves emotion and sentiment; and in the evolution of the human mind, from the beginning of social life onwards, the instinct for approbation has been about the most important of the springs of conduct. In the life of the individual the same importance manifestly attaches to these functions, as when the child refers every question of conduct to the criterion of a parent's praise or blame, and as when the man develops a sense of the approval or disapproval of God. What the nature of this fabric may be we can only conjecture ; it is enough for us to recognise that there is such a mode of activity which obtains as an accessory to nearly every self-conscious act. And the important fact is that, when the reaction of this group of functions is opposed to, instead of being in harmony with, conduct a great dis- ability is imposed upon the whole mind. As yet, we are not in a position to explain how one set of cerebral mechanisms inhibits or impedes another, and there may be no direct opposition of forces, but this much is clear, that when a certain act or habit fails to achieve the con- current activity of so important a function, there must be a great loss of force, a much weaker production than would otherwise have resulted. Psychology, however, suggests some- thing like actual conflict and corresponding waste of power; no mind can be quite efficient which is dogged by the consciousness that its course of action is unworthy. And in these days, when the fashion is to interpret all path- ology in the crude terms of nutritive values always conceived of as pertaining to the blood- stream, it is needful for us to emphasise this other aspect of the problem. Worry certainly is as potent in the production of cerebral exhaustion as any other single factor that we can name, and it is our business to find some physiological conception for it. For this re- action of the conscience is often excessive and becomes in itself a vice; in women especially self-consciousness is often exaggerated, and the mind suffers from a too frequent and undue criticism of its performances. Many people suffer in this respect in regard to drinking. It is useful to discern this type, which we may call the timid drinker, for it is necessary to deal with him in a manner quite different from our management of the obdurate drunkard. And, to begin with, honesty and a frank recog- nition of the truth about drinking is urgently called for. It is time, for instance, that the untruthfulness of the teetotal fanatic should be exposed, and the fact brought home to him that he has been a prime influence in retarding both private morality and legislative progress. The total abstinence injunction is obeyed, for the most part, by persons who have the least need of it; it has admittedly saved many reckless and confirmed drunkards; but it has also hastened the ruin of many young people who, tempted to depart from the custom of their parents, have been impelled to do their drinking alone or in undesirable company, and have added shame and fear to their weakness. Another result of the disrepute in which all drinking is regarded in certain communities is a failure to appreciate good and bad stuff. Taken all over, the drinking practices of the people are very gross and crude; a wise parent will be at some pains to educate both his own palate and his sons', and will encourage a taste for the lighter and purer liquors; and even some who habitually exceed are improved by more cultured selection of their drink. And the time at which people drink is of importance in this same connection, for the habit of drink- ing largely at meals is a pernicious tradition; much of the ill-effect of alcohol is due to in- complete digestion ; and it is therefore probably wise to have a large and dilute drink not less than half an hour before dinner, and let that meal be as dry as possible. The suggestion that people should be taught how to get the utmost value out of both food and drink is part of a general increase of attention to physical culture, which is having a marked influence upon the practices of the rising generation. For the rest, there is not much to be said about excessive drinking that has not been too often said already. We should be as careful, however, not to err on the side of leniency in our dealings with the obdurate drunkard, as to be not too severe on the timid patient. The latter will respond to peaceable and enlightened measures, and especially to the frank confidence of a friend. The thick-skinned sot requires coercion and intimidation. And that brings us to the everlasting demand that the law should deal boldly with these cases. Even short of compulsory detention in a Re- treat, gi'eat good would be accomplished if, as has been suggested, powers were granted for proper authorities to farm the wages or salary or other income of the drunkard. Drug Habits and Smoking.—Indulgence in narcotics is dealt with elsewhere, and upon all such practices there is nothing new to say. The whole problem simply demands courage and frankness, common sense and firmness. If, for example, it is true that cigarette-smoking