UTERUS, MALFORMATIONS OF THE 325 bodies near the ovary are very frequent, but they are not accessory ovaries. Many of them are partially detached tubes of the parovarium, stalked corpora fibrosa, or small myomata of the ovarian ligament. So far as the facts stand at present, a supernumerary ovary, so separated from the main gland as to form a distinct ovary, has yet to be described by a competent observer " (Bland-Sutton and Giles). Defects of the Hymen.—The hymen is subject to variations in shape and in structure. The orifice is normally crescentic, concave anteriorly; instead of this the aperture may be central and circular, or it may be divided so that two apertures exist, either one in front of the other or side by side. In the latter condition the appearance closely resembles that of double vagina, from which it must be distinguished. The cribriform hymen presents a number of openings. In structure the hymen may be distensible and yielding, allowing coitus to occur without rupture; or it may be dense and unyielding, requiring division before coitus can take place. In rare cases the hymen has persisted during pregnancy, and formed an obstacle to labour. C. Clinical Aspects of Malformations of THE Female Genital Organs.—1. Symptomat- ology.—It will be convenient to consider here the various malformations in relation to the general bodily and mental development, to the secondary sexual character, to menstruation, and to child-bearing. Absence of the genital organs is only found, as we have said, in the case of monstrosities. With marked under-development of the uterus and ovaries—for instance, with rudimentary uterus or infantile ovaries—thei'e are often found retarded physical growth and imperfect mental powers. Slight degrees of under- development are compatible with an otherwise well-formed body and a vigorous mind. The same may be said of malformations in the second and third groups, namely, doubling and atresia of the genital passages and hypertrophy of vulva or cervix. The development of the secondary sexual characters maintains a fairly close parallel with that of the pelvic organs, so that when the latter are imperfectly formed we find the breasts flat, small, and even absent, the pubic hair scanty or absent, as in the case of a child, and the vulva small. Menstruation is established late or not at all when the uterus is under-developed. A woman with a rudimentary or infantile uterus, or with imperfect ovaries, does not menstruate. Broadly speaking, the occurrence or otherwise of men- struation gives a fairly reliable indication of the degree of development, whilst its characters, where it does occur, also have their significance. If menstruation is normal it may be presumed that there is not any considerable arrest of growth; if it is very scanty and irregular, and if it comes on late, it can generally be assumed that some degree of under-development exists. In the case of double uterus menstruation has nearly always the normal characters, and even if one-half be under-developed, as in the uterus unicornis, the other half is generally functional. In cases of atresia the changes incidental to menstruation occur in the uterus, but the menstrual products are of course re- tained {cryptomenorrhoea). When distension of the vagina comes on symptoms arise, chiefly in the form of abdominal pain, which has at first a monthly exacerbation, but later on becomes more or less constant. In cases of unilateral atresia the symptoms may be misleading, be- cause the retention of products in the occluded half of the vagina and uterus produces the char- acteristics just described, whilst menstruation is apparently taking place normally on the other side. Effects of Retention of Menstriml Products in Cases of Atresia.—According to the situation of the obstruction and the duration of crypto- menorrha3a the following conditions may result, shown diagrammatically in Fig. 5 :— (i.) Atresia of the Vaginal Orifice.—As first mentioned, blood collects in the vagina, produc- ing the condition known as hoematocolpos (Fig. 5 A). In the course of time distension occurs successively in the cervix—hmmatotrachelos (B), in the body of the uterus—haematonietra (C), and in the Fallopian tubes—hcematosalpinx (D). (ii.) Abse7ice of the Lower Fart of the Vagina. —The distension proceeds in the same order as above, affecting first the vagina (E), and then the uterus (F). No indication of the distension is, however, seen at the vulva, whilst in the preceding group the vaginal septum bulges down between the labia. (iii.) Atresia of the Os Externum.—Here the vagina remains normal, and the cervix suffers (Fig. 5 G), and then the whole uterus. (iv.) Atresia of the Os Internum.—The cervix and vagina both remain free, and a pure hsemato- metra is formed (H). The last two conditions are seldom if ever congenital. (v.) Atresia affecting One-half of a Double Uterus or Vagina.—When one vagina is occluded lateral hoematocolpos at first results, the swelling extending by the side of the normal vagina down to the vulva (I), or only part of the way if the occluded vagina is also partly deficient (J). Hsematometra follows (K), or it occurs alone if the atresia affects the os internum (L). If the contents of these various retention-sacs suppurate, either spontaneously or through a temporary fistulous aperture, pyocolpos, pyo- metra, and pyosalpinx may occur. Characters of retained Menstrual Blood.— This is a dark chocolate colour, sometimes black. It is viscid, owing to partial absorption of the liquid portion of the blood, and flows slowly, like treacle or honey. It is mixed with