VACCINATION 383 The first attempt to do anything systematic in England against smallpox was made in 1720. It had long been known in China that a much milder form of the disease could be produced by putting some of the variolous matter under the skin of the person to be infected. This process was known as " buying the smallpox." Dr. M'Vail has found the same expression in Wales and in various parts of Western Europe, and he thinks it likely that the practice of inoculation had been introduced from the East into scattered parts of Western Europe, and had by degrees been forgotten and disused. It is obvious that the practice was likely, in careless and ignorant hands, to do at least as much harm as good. The credit of the reintroduction of inoculation into Europe belongs to Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, whose husband was at that time ambassador at Constantinople. She heard of the method, and after considerable inquiry into its results she made it known in England. Smallpox being then one of the most certain sources of every general practitioner's income, she thought the medical profession would be her most vigorous opponents. Nowadays we often hear that doctors support vaccination because it adds to their in- come ; it is forgotten that the earnings from this source are insignificant compared to those obtained from attending patients through the illness of smallpox. Lady Mary writes thus to a friend:— " I should not fail to write to some of our doctors about it if I knew any of them that I thought had virtue enough to destroy such a considerable branch of their revenue for the good of mankind. But that distemper is too bene- ficial to them not to expose to all their resent- ment the hardy wight that should undertake to put an end to it. Perhaps, if I live to return, I may, however, have courage to war with them." Lady Mary had her little daughter inoculated in England, and the practice was slowly brought into fashion. But the early results were not very satisfactory. Up to 1728 only 897 cases were inoculated in England, and of these 17 died, so that the induced disease was evidently not always a slight affair. This was disappoint- ing, as safety had been promised. During the immaturity of a new idea or practice there is always a crowd of timid folk who condemn every novelty that does not come before the world in its final and perfected form. Few people have knowledge or insight enough to be patient with that which is new and in its developmental stage. Inoculation was quite out of fashion from 1728 to 1740, when it was again revived. Two things were obviously against its general usefulness. The inoculated disease was not always mild, and it was con- tagious. Gradually, as time went on, it was found possible to guard against these two dis- advantages. By taking the variolous lymph earlier in the disease, by introducing it under the skin in a better way, and by careful regu- lation of the patient's life before the operation, the illness was made exceedingly light. Inocu- lating for smallpox became a special part of the medical art, and men practised it almost to the exclusion of everything else. About 1763, for instance, two brothers named Sutton en- joyed immense popularity as safe inoculators. They boasted of having had upwards of 10,000 cases with no deaths. The other disadvantage of inoculation was met by isolating patients with the inoculated form of the disease so care- fully that persons not immune from having had smallpox had nothing to do with them. With an adult population who were largely protected from the disease by having had it already, the necessary quarantine was not impossible, but it required to be accepted and enforced in a thorough - going way. Children and young people who were inoculated had to be segregated and surrounded by immune adults for several weeks. The Scotch people, with their excellent sense, and with the attention to detail which has conduced so much to their reputation in professional and commercial life, as gardeners and cooks, etc., seem to have been able to get all the good that was possible out of inoculation then, as for the most part they do now out of vaccination. Dr. M'Vail brought under the notice of the Commission an old book. Sir John Sinclair's Statistical Account of Scotland, which extended from 1790 to 1799. Sir John had asked the parish ministers of Scotland for infor- mation on a number of details about their parishes. He did not ask about smallpox, but many of his correspondents mention inoculation as a valuable means of protecting the population from the disease. People who are opposed to vaccination often assert that the prevalence of smallpox at the end of the eighteenth century was due to its spread by inoculation. In care- less hands this might be the result, but Sinclair's book proves that it was not the rule in Scotland. Among the many statements in favour of inocu- lation a few may be quoted. " The former virulence and ravages of small- pox are much abated in this parish (New Abbey, Kirkcudbright) owing to the ministers perform- ing the operation of inoculation to a considerable extent, and with the greatest success." At Portingal in Perthshire " it may be added that fewer children die in the Highlands than almost anywhere, especially since inoculation has been so universally practised, which it has been for a good many years back, to the saving of many lives." At Kilmuir, Skye, "in former times the smallpox frequently prevailed to a very great height, and sometimes almost depopulated the country. The people in general are now so well convinced of the propriety of inoculation that it is become the practice universally, and many useful lives are saved by it." At Durness,