484 VISION, THE FIELD OF Optic neuritis when secondary to increased intra-cranial pressure, as in cerebral meningitis, etc., is almost always bilateral, though one nerve may become affected before the other. During the early stage of this form of neuritis vision is often quite unchanged—central vision, the field, and the colour-sense remaining normal. After the lapse of some weeks, when the inflam- matory exudation begins to be replaced by Left Eye. Left Eye. Chart 8.—Absolute scotoma whicli began with an attack of retrobulbar neuritis and became permanent. fibrous tissue, there is often progressive loss of vision. The prognosis is on the whole bad, as post-neuritic atrophy is of frequent occurrence, and in a number of instances leads to complete blindness. In some cases, however, good vision may be permanently retained. Hemianopia. — The field of vision is here limited in a most remarkable way, and varies according to the form of hemianopia present. The most common form is that known as homo- nymous hemianopia, which may be right sided or left, complete or par- tial, relative or absolute. The loss of vision to one side of the fixation point, when both eyes are open, often impresses the pa- tient with the idea that he has lost the sight of one eye. The true state of affairs is at once demon- strated by rapidly taking the field of each eye separ- ately with the fingers. When this is done it is found that in each eye the same side, say the right side, of the field has been obliterated. On more careful examina- tion with the perimeter the complete or partial nature of the case becomes evident. In cases of complete homonymous hemianopia the line of demarcation which separates the blind from the seeing part of the field is very sharply defined. It occupies a generally vertical position, and passes through the whole field at or very near the vertical meridian. The dividing line, as a rule, deviates towards the blind side close to the fixation point, and thus usually leaves central vision intact. In incomplete or partial cases the areas of blindness are less extensive than in the com- plete form. The blind areas usually correspond in position and extent in the field of each eye. Thus homonymous quadrants may be lost. Homonymous hemianopia is "absolute" in the great majority of cases, that is to say, colour, form, and light senses are all gone. In some cases the condition is of the "relative" type, when the colour sense may alone be lost, while the light sense remains. The term hemiachromatopsia is applied to cases with marked colour defect. It has been demonstrated by Bjerrum's method that the form sense is also often affected in hemiachroma- topsia. It is considered probable that these relative cases are the result of less severe lesions, which only partially interrupt conduction. Homonymous hemianopia is often met in as- sociation with hemiplegia, but more frequently occurs apart from that disease. Transient forms may exist in connection with hysteria or mi- graine, and have been noticed prior to the incidence of cerebral htemorrhage. The lesion, of whatever nature, is one which interrupts conduction in the course of one optic tract, and may do so at any point from behind the chiasma to the cortical centre. The following points may assist in the local- isation of the lesion :— "Wernicke's pupil symptom," or the "hemi- opic pupil."—To examine for this symptom, the Right Eye. Charts 9.—Homonymous hemianopia. patient should be placed in a darkened room with an ophthalmoscopic lamp behind his head. The eye is then slightly illuminated from the front by throwing reflected light from a concave ophthalmoscopic mirror held well out of focus, while the patient is asked to look across the room in order to avoid accommodation. Finally, with a second mirror held to one side a sharply focussed beam of light is thrown on to the amaurotic half of the retina. If, when this