114 TROPICS, THE UNCLASSED FEVERS OF THE a fortnight's duration, followed by a stage of from three to seven days' relative or absolute apyrexia, which, in its turn, was succeeded by another spell of about ten days' duration of smart fever, and then by convalescence. Both in the primary and in the terminal fever the evening temperature may rise to 104° or 104-5°." There are no special symptoms, nor any special complications, as far as has been observed—the double fever being constant and characteristic ; and the same succession of events may occur almost, in one instance quite, simultaneously in two patients living in the same house. Relapses of " simple continued fever," such as I have described in the first section of this paper, are of the rarest occurrence, and we may therefore assume that in the cases mentioned by Manson we are dealing with a specific infection of an altogether different character. I have not met with instances of this fever in India. Non-Malarial " Remittent " Fever. — There, however, occurs in the tropics a fairly frequent form of continued fever which presents a very close clinical resemblance to the malignant type of malarial infection, with which it has been long, and is still confounded, though distinctions force themselves on the observation of attentive practitioners. The first point of distinction is that the spleen does not enlarge in these cases, or only in a very minor degree; and, second, quinine given in heroic doses does not in the smallest degree affect the course of the fever, but only adds materially to the distress of the patient; thirdly, the most careful and repeated search for the malarial parasite fails to find it. It is a continvied fever of great severity running a deiinite course of about six weeks, and showing occasionally a tendency to relapse after an apyrexial period of about a week, the relapse being of the same type, but usually shorter and milder. It is more common in natives than Europeans, and children frequently suffer, while it is seldom seen after thirty years of age. It is called "remittent" because of its resem- blance clinically to the "remittent" forms of malarial fever, but it is really a continued fever, and evidently due to some specific infection. The attack often begins with distinct inter- missions, as happens also with typhoid fever in the tropics, probably from the accidental presence of malarial parasites in the blood (Laveran), but after the first two or three days, notwithstanding large dosage with quinine, the fever becomes continued, and rapidly reaches continuous high temperature, 104° and 105° being the rule after the fourth day, with a remission of not more than 1 -5° in many cases, though in others it amounts to 2° or 2-5° at some part of the twenty-four hours. With this continuance of high temperature, head symp- toms are early and severe, with delirium and coma. The size of the spleen remains little altered, but the liver is early affected, becoming enlarged and congested, and a bilious diarrhoea, perhaps with slight jaundice, is the rule. From the eighteenth to the twenty-fourth day con- gestion of the backs of both lungs will generally be detected, and death is not uncommon about this period. In more favourable cases the symptoms gradually subside, and in another fortnight the attack is at an end. The firm belief that these cases are a form of malarial fever leads to treatment by repeated full doses of quinine, but without any benefit, and the distress which its indiscriminate use in these attacks causes has done a great deal to bring about the dread with which natives regard that drug, a dread which often prevents its effective use in other cases in which its beneficial results would be so conspicuous. The question as to the true nature of the infection in these cases of non - malarial " remittent" has to some extent been answered by the discovery first made by Professor Wright of Netley and Surgeon-Captain Smith, that many convalescents from India give a positive reaction to the serum sedimentation test for Malta fever {Brit. Med. Jour, of 10th April 1897), and this reaction has since then been found to occur in India in many cases which formerly would have been regarded as malarial (Bamber, Ind. Med. Gaz., Nov. 1900). I am not aware, however, that the bacillus Melitensis itself has yet been obtained from any fatal case of this fever, and looking at the wide divergence which the clinical symptoms exhibit from those of the typical course of Malta fever, and the absence of the sequelae which are so character- istic of that disease, and the uncertainty as to the signification of the results of the serum test, I would, in the absence of detailed cases, join with Manson (Lancet of 23rd August 1902, p. 544) in advising caution in accepting such evidence as conclusive as to the prevalence of Malta fever in India. Similar remarks apply with still greater force to the recent discovery of the presence of Widal's reaction in the blood of natives of India suffering from obscure attacks of continued fever, which has been advanced to prove that the belief that natives of India are com- paratively immune from enteric fever must be abandoned, and that many attacks of this nature are in reality due to infection by the bacillus typhosus. Surgeon-Captain Freyer was the first to sound a warning note as to the doubtful diagnostic value of Widal's reaction in the examination of native blood. In dilu- tions of "about 1 in 12" he found—without mentioning a time limit—a positive reaction in the blood of sixteen out of eighteen specimens examined in healthy natives over two years of age (Srit. Med. Jour., 7th August 1897, p. 329). Lamb of Bombay, applying the sedi- mentation test, failed to confirm Freyer's results {l7id. Med. Gaz., April 1901, p. 123); but out