WOUNDS 537 commonly, pyogenic germs; and the contact of such contaminated objects with the raw tissues of a wound means infection. Thus clothing, sponges, water, lotions, instruments, ligatures, sutures, or dressings, if permitted to touch a wound without previous sterilisation, may give rise to most dangerous septic pro- cesses. Above all, the unpurified fingers of the surgeon or his assistants are liable to convey material into a wound with consequences no less fatal than those following the invasion of a bullet or bayonet into a vital organ. A fundamental distinction must be drawn between wounds deliberately made by the surgeon through healthy integuments, and those arising from accident or assault. In the former group it is the bounden duty of the surgeon to adopt the most scrupulous precau- tions possible to ensure asepsis before, during, and after the operation. Not that complete sterilisation is certain to be attained by the means so far introduced, although it is the end to be strenuously pursued. The entrance of some germs into subcutaneous tissues freely exposed to air in its ordinary state is inevitable ; but happily it is consistent with general ex- perience that the presence of a small mmiber of organisms introduced in that way does not prevent healing by first intention, always pro- vided that the stringent rules of modern practice are faithfully followed. As to the propriety of seeking to remove or destroy these intruded bacteria by the application of an anti- septic, and, if thought appropriate, what anti- septic should be employed, surgical opinion is divided. The writer holds, with due deference to the views of others, that it is prudent, when- ever extensive tracts are opened up in an opera- tion, to apply a suitable antiseptic fluid to the cut surfaces before closing the wound; and for this purpose dilute izal lotion (izal 1 part, boiled water 800 parts) has proved satisfactory. On the other hand, the surgeon is confronted with an altogether different set of conditions in the case of accidental wounds. Here there has been no preparatory disinfection, and therefore, having regard to the absence of prophylactic measures before the injury was inflicted, the only safe course is to assume, as a working rule admitting of very few exceptions, the existence of septic infection when the patient comes under surgical care. It is usually difiicult, not seldom impossible, to overtake the initial disadvantages. The wound, soiled at the moment of its occur- rence, may have been covered over by dirty wrappings, or, what is worse, meddled with by unprepared hands, carrying infection into its recesses. When, as frequently happens, the damaged parts are contused or lacerated, and still more when palpable foi'eign bodies have been ground in, the difliculties are immensely increased. But all this should not deter us from painstaking efforts to undo the mischief; on the contrary, it should be an incentive to the greatest nicety of detail in every step of the treatment, so far as the exigencies of any given case permit, in order that the conditions may be brought as closely as possible into line with those of a formal operation-wound. To this end it is essential that nothing but what is germ-free or germicidal should be allowed in or near the wound. In what follows it will be understood that accidental wounds are referred to, and the considerations stated above are assumed. The requirements of local treatment comprise hcBmostasis, \disinfection of the ivound and its immediate surroundings, coaptation, drainage, dressing, and provision for rest and favourable circulation. 1. Hcemostasis.—Bleeding is so pressing a danger when copious, and so much delays re- pair when allowed to go on even slightly within a closed wound, that the flow requires to be arrested at once and completely. The arrest may be natural or artificial. In either case the openings into the vessels become blocked by blood-clot or in other ways mechanically closed, the blood-pressure being at the same time lowered; and the obstruction persists until per- manent sealing takes place. Hsemorrhage from small vessels will stop spontaneously, or upon exposing the part to the air. For a wound of an extremity, elevation of the limb is a most valuable means of cliecking further loss of blood, the value of this method being the greater the more distal the wound. In the case of a hand the whole limb should be raised vertically by grasping uninjured digits, or sup- porting the elbow. For moderate arterial bleeding, digital compression of the main artery is indicated as a temporary measure until the vessels are secured. Profuse hfemorrhage from a limb can be promptly arrested by tying stout indiarubber tubing tightly round the limb at a higher level, first protecting the skin encircled with folded lint to prevent bruising. It is well to bear in mind that unless the ligature is firmly applied, the supplying arteries will not be fully controlled and oozing will continue from the wound. It is not uncommon to see free venous bleeding when an improvised tourni- quet has been imperfectly placed above a wound by a well-intentioned bystander rendering first aid after the accident. Such bleeding will diminish or entirely cease on removal of the tourniquet. As a general rule the wound must be widely opened and examined in a good light. The sur- faces should be freely flushed with hot antiseptic lotion squeezed out of swabs of sterilised gauze, and all bleeding points can then be seized one after another with pressure-forceps—Spencer Wells' pattern or some modification. If any form of compression has been practised, this is cautiously relaxed, and visible vessels clamped