WATER 513 See also Air, Examination of ( Water Vapour); Aseptic Treatment of Wounds (Water Infec- tion, Hot Water); Balneology ; Cholera, Epidemic {Etiology); Cholera Nostras [Eti- ology) ; Diet [Beverages); Dysentery [Etiology, Water); Hydropathy ; Mineral Waters ; Sewage and Drainage ; Thyroid Gland, Medi- cal [Goitre, Carises); Toxicology [Lead); Trades, Dangerous [Lead-Poisoning). Water, though not strictly speaking a food, is absolutely necessary for the maintenance of life, both of plants and of animals. In the human economy it is required as a solvent and as a diluent. For these purposes only, a very small quantity would suffice, probably two to three pints per person per day. The exigencies of modern civilisation, however, demand a far larger supply. Water is required for the cook- ing of food, for the cleansing of the person, of the house and its appurtenances, for animals and stable purposes, and for gardens. All these may be considered under the head of water for domestic use. The public authorities require water for cleansing streets, flushing sewers, and extinguishing fires, possibly also for supplying baths and washhouses. These may be con- sidered as municipal purposes. Moreover, in most towns it is found to be to the public ad- vantage to supply water for trade and manu- facturing purposes. The amount of water required daily for domestic use varies considerably. Excluding stable and garden, the amount usually allotted in making estimates is 10 gallons per head per day. Where great economy is used, and where earth-closets are provided, this amount might sufiice, but it is less than the estimate made by the late Dr. Parkes, based upon records of the amounts used in various households. The estimate is as under :— Gallons daily per person. Cooking ...... -7 Fluid as drink (water, tea, coffee, etc.) "3 Ablution, including a daily sponge bath 5-0 Share of utensil and house washing . 3'0 Share of laundry washing . . 3'0 Total . . 12-0 Where water-closets are used from two to six gallons more will be required. In a water-closet town, therefore, it would not be safe to provide a supply of less than 20 gallons per head per day for domestic purposes. Water not suffici- ently pure for domestic purposes is often avail- able for municipal and manufacturing purposes ; where such is not the case it is usual to allow 10 gallons per head per day for each of these uses, hence we may conclude that the amount of water actually required will vary from a minimum of 20 gallons to a maximum of VOL. X 40 gallons. There are many towns not pro- viding this minimum quantity, but in all such there are periods when the supply is inadequate. In other towns more than this maximum is provided, but in such cases the excess is almost certainly wasted, either on account of defective mains or house fittings, or the carelessness or extravagance of the users. In many towns an attempt is made to econo- mise the use of water by making the supply " intermittent." In such case the mains are only kept full and under pressure for a few hours daily, when the house cisterns fill and are drawn upon for the remainder of the day. Theoretically this method should be economical, but in actual practice it leads to little if any saving, moreover there are many objections to it. The emptying and filling of the mains and the great variations in pressure often lead to insuction of polluting matters, larger house cisterns than would otherwise be necessary must be provided, again increasing the risk of contamination, larger mains are necessary, as the whole day's supply has to be furnished in a few hours, and, in case of fire, water may not be available. In rural districts where public supplies are laid on by means of mains the amount of water required is not so great as in towns. Usually when the public supply is first furnished the amount used is astonishingly small, probably due to the continuance of habits of economy acquired when the supply was limited. In time, however, the demand increases, but usually the provision of 50 gallons per day per cottage is found to be abundant. For many of the purposes for which water is required it is not necessary for it to be "pure." Sea water or an impure river water may be used for sewer flushing, road watering, and other municipal purposes ; an impure water may also serve for manufacturing purposes. Even for certain domestic purposes a water not sufficiently pure for drinking and cooking might be tolerated. With a dual supply the amount of pure water required would be greatly de- creased, and possibly in the future dual supplies may be introduced into towns where the avail- able amount of pure water is limited. In country districts such dual supplies are very commonly met with. The well yields water for certain domestic purposes, whilst a neighbour- ing stream, ditch, or pond furnishes water for washing and slopping. There is little objection to such an arrangement, but in towns a dual supply would involve a second system of mains and supply-pipes, and if laid on to the houses there would be a constant risk of the impure water being used for the pure. This risk might be reduced to an almost negligible quantity, but it is doubtful whether the health of any community would be benefited by the introduc- tion of say a sewage-polluted river water for 33