425 VEINS, DISEASES OF by laying open the inflamed vein, removing the infected thrombus, and thoroughly cleansing the cavity and stuffing lightly with iodoform gauze. In advancing cases the vein should be exposed on the cardiac side, tied and divided, and a current of fluid directed along the channel from the opening to the seat of thrombosis, as in lateral sinus thrombosis in middle ear dis- ease (q.v.). Varicose Veins Varicose veins ; Synon. : Varix, Phlebectasis ; Fr. Varice ; Ger. Krampfader. The condition indicated by this term is one of permanent over-distension of the walls of veins, with lengthening and tortuosity of the vessels, accompanied by changes in the walls of the veins. Such a condition occurring in the veins of the scrotum is known as a varicocele (;vide " Scrotum "), and it is most common in that site at the anus, and in the veins of the lower limb, but it may occur in any set of veins from obstruction to the return circulation. The condition is only recognisable when the superficial veins are affected, but deep veins may be varicose also, especially in the venae comites of the veins of the leg. The etiology of the condition is not quite clear in all cases, and many causes have been suggested. Before considering the probable causes that bring about a varicose condition in that com- monest region, the lower limb, it is necessary to understand the nature of the pathological changes that occur in the vessels. Either of the saphena veins may be affected, or both, and the distension may only be notice- able over a small part of the vessel. Frequently one sees a bunch of enlarged veins and the formation of a distinct tumour; in other cases no stem of a single vein is affected, and a long sinuous prominence is seen. The veins are thickened as well as dilated, and they do not collapse when divided; the thickening is due to an increase of the fibrous tissue in the wall, and the vessel is elongated, as there is a hyperplasia in the long axis as well as in the transverse. The valves, at first thickened, become incom- petent, and may degenerate into fibrous cords. Large sacculated dilatations may form at the bends of veins, or where a superficial one joins a deep vein. The essential change is apparently an over-distension of the vessel wall, and the wall once ovei^distended undergoes the fibrous changes which are common to tissues which are over-exerted. One is often at a loss to discover a reason for the primary over-distension. Dilatation of the prostatic plexus is common in elderly persons, and of the rectal and anal veins in persons who have congested liver or who suffer from constipation. A general impediment to the venous return, such as chronic heart or lung disease, causes a general over-distension of the veins, and those of the lower extremity, being the longest and having the weight of the column of blood to bear, will suffer first. Local obstructions, such as an overloaded colon or an enlarged uterus, will tell on the veins of the lower limb; and muscular strain, such as severe efforts in bicycling or running, may determine varicosity of the veins in healthy young adults. Occurring in the veins of the upper limb, it is usually due to pressure on the main vessels from a tumour in the axilla or in the superior mediastinum, or to an arterio-venous aneurysm. The veins of the anterior abdominal wall become highly varicose in cases of obstruction to the inferior vena cava, and a similar condition is found in the veins of the alimentary canal, especially of the stomach, in hepatic cirrhosis. Occurring in the lower limbs it is frequently due to obstructive causes, such as a loaded rectum, a pregnant or enlarged uterus, the wearing of tight garters, and excessive muscular effort; but all these factors may be present and yet no varicose veins result; the importance to be attached to them is somewhat doubtful. Certain individuals appear to be more liable, and a tendency of this kind may be inherited; and deficient support of the veins is also a cause, especially in the lower limb, where the weight of a long column of blood has to be supported by the vessel wall, if for any reason the valves be incompetent. The gradual distension of the veins leads to this incompetence, and thus a circulus vitiosus of vascular dilatation and valvular incompetence may be set up, and lead to progressive spread of the varix. The signs and symptoms are quite distinct when the parts are examined, as the enlarged veins stand out in the form of rounded, tense, tortuous cords, often with local areas of dilata- tion amounting to the formation of a tumour as large as a walnut. The internal saphenous vein and its tributaries are often affected, and a mass of tortuous vessels is found on the inner side of the knee. Changes are seen in the cutaneous venous radicles, which are injected, and there may be osdema of the lower part of the limb. The skin appears glazed, and as the nutrition of the limb suffers some complications are common. Cutaneous conditions of the nature of eczema, and a diminished power of resistance to injury or irritation, often lead to ulceration, and there may be rupture of the veins, leading to haemor- rhage, which is always severe and may even be fatal, as the bleeding is aided by the whole weight of the column of blood in the veins between the point of rupture and the main ab- dominal vessels. The patient complains of tired, aching feeling, or even of acute pain, of