VISION, THE FIELD OF 485 has been done, the pupil fails to react to light thrown upon the blind half of the retina, or does so very little, the symptom is said to be present. The presence of this symptom is regarded by some excellent authorities as evidence that the lesion involves the optic tract in fi-ont of the corpora quadrigemina, thus preventing the effect of light falling upon the amaurotic part Chart 10.—Showing the binocular field in bitemporal hemiauopia. of the retina from reaching the third nerve nucleus by way of Meynert's fibres. If the symptom is not present, no conclusions can with safety be based on its absence, because a possible reaction through the normal half of the retina cannot be excluded. It is proper to state that some authorities do not believe that any value can be attached to this symptom. The presence of word blindness, mind blind- ness, etc., is suggestive of Left Bye. a cortical lesion, while lesions of the cortex and optic radiations are more likely to produce the in- complete forms of homo- nymous hemianopia (see Charts 9). The ophthalmoscopic examination usually shows no change in the disc dur- ing the earlier stages, but optic neuritis may be present. In the later stages partial atrophy of the disc is found. Prognosis is relatively good, as the condition of vision usually remains stationary. Bitemporal Hemianopia.—The true nature of the visual defect is not so obvious in this as in the homonymous form. When the patient comes under observation with both eyes open, the nasal field of each eye extending about sixty degrees to the opposite side gives a bi- nocular field of such lateral extent as might readily escape notice (see Chart 10). This is more especially the case as the patient is more troubled by his impaired central vision than by the restriction of his field. When the field of vision is examined in each eye separ- ately, it is found to be defective throughout its temporal half in each eye. The dividing line between the normal and the blind part of the field is not so sharply defined, and is less regu- larly vertical than it is in the homonymous cases. Central vision is usually impaired or lost. Owing to the nature of the lesion, the fields are apt at some period in the course of the case to show inequality. Thus the sight of one eye may be lost by the encroachment of the blind area, while the original half-blindness remains in the other. The condition may be relative or absolute, sometimes beginning as relative and later becoming absolute. Cases not infrequently show a tendency to temporary improvement of symptoms. The lesion is almost invariably—to begin with at any rate—one which affects the crossed fibres occupying the central part of the chiasma, and supplying the nasal halves of the retinje. Temporal hemianopia is a common early symptom of acromegaly, here resulting from enlargement of the pituitary body. Aneurysm, periostitis, hyperostoses, basal meningitis, and syphilitic gumma are recognised as causes. Symmetrical cortical lesion is very unlikely. The prognosis is bad as compared with the homonymous form, central vision being always impaired, and many cases passing on to com- plete blindness from atrophy. Occasionally, however, permanent recovery does take place (see Charts 11). Right Eye. Charts ll.—Bitemporal hemianopia. Binasal hemianopia is exceedingly rare. It results from a chiasmal lesion affecting the lateral parts of the chiasma, where the un- crossed fibres pass which supply the temporal halves of the retinte. Altitudinal hemianopia also occurs, and is supposed to be most frequently caused by chiasmal lesion, and sometimes by optic neur- itis. Cortical lesions may be the cause. Optic atrophy, apart from those cases of con- secutive atrophy already referred to, is met