TRACHEA, AFFECTIONS OF THE 82 ing over the front of the neck. General em- physema is generally rapidly fatal. Treatment.—Expose the trachea by a free median incision, clear away blood-clot. If the ends of the trachea are widely separated, suture them together. Put in a tracheotomy tube. Wounds.— Varieties.—1. Incised wounds, e.g. in cases of cut throat. 2. Gun-shot wounds. In the former the edges of the superficial wound should be left widely open, while the edges of the tracheal wound, if widely separated, may be sutured. Gun-shot wounds often result in tracheal stenosis. Foreign Bodies in the Trachea.—Symptoms. —At the moment the body is drawn through the larynx there is a violent attack of dyspnoea due to spasm of the glottis; but when the body has dropped into the trachea the urgent symp- toms subside. The absence of symptoms is only temporary, for directly the body is coughed into the larynx again, another spasm of the glottis occurs, with resulting obstruction to respiration. Treatment.—When the history is given of recurrent acute attacks of dyspnoea, with free intervals following the supposed entry into the air-passage of a foreign body, tracheotomy should be at once done. The edges of the tracheal wound being held widely apart, the body is, as a rule, coughed into view and can easily be removed. If not at once seen, it should be searched for with forceps, and if it is still not found a tracheotomy tube should be inserted, and the trachea further explored on another occasion. iRXcn^OTOUx.—Indications for the Operation. —1. The presence in the larynx, pharynx, or upper part of the trachea of a serious obstruc- tion to respiration, e.g.:— (a) Diphtheritic membrane. (6) Tumour of larynx or trachea. (c) (Edematous laryngitis. {d) Double abductor laryngeal paralysis. (e) Cicatricial adhesion of the vocal cords. 2. Foreign bodies in the trachea. 3. As a preliminary to certain operations, e.g. removal of the tongue. Varieties of Operation.—1. The high opera- tion, in which the trachea is opened above the isthmus of the thyroid. 2. The low, in which the trachea is opened below the isthmus. The former operation is usually done. Position of the Patient.—The patient should be on a narrow table in a good light. There should be a small pillow beneath the shoulders, so that the head is stretched back, and the chin should be kept accurately in the middle line. The Operation.—The usual precautions as to asepsis having been taken, and the skin being steadied with the fingers of the left hand, an incision 1| in. long is made accurately in the middle line of the neck with its upper end just overlapping the cricoid cartilage. The skin and fat being rapidly divided, the layer of deep cervical fascia overlying the pre-tracheal muscles is seen and divided. Beneath this fascia the anterior jugular veins run down on either side of the middle line, and there may be a communicating branch across the middle line. The interval between the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles of the two sides is then recognised in the middle line, and the muscles are separated and held apart with retractors. The finger should now be put into the wound and the trachea felt for, and steadied between the thumb and fingers of the left hand. The deep cervical fascia over the front of the trachea is now to be cleanly divided in the middle line, and the thyroid isthmus, which lies over the second and third rings of the trachea, pulled down with a blunt hook. Distended veins may be encountered at this stage, and should be clamped or drawn aside. The rings of the trachea being clearly exposed, a sharp hook is introduced into the middle line of the trachea just below the cricoid cartilage, and the air- passage pulled a little upwards and forwards. Then with a small scalpel the operator sharply plunges into the middle line of the trachea at about the third tracheal cartilage and cuts up- wards. The rush of air into the trachea is now heard, and the tracheal dilator is immediately introduced and the blades opened. The trache- otomy tube is next introduced in the following way :—With the right hand hold the dilator in the trachea with its blades apart. Take the outer tube in the left hand, press its two halves together, and introduce it slowly and carefully into the trachea between the opened blades of the dilator. As soon as it is certain that air is passing in and out through the tube, remove the dilators while the tube is held securely in position. Then tie the tapes round the neck and introduce the inner tube. If the low operation is being done the incision must be nearer the sternum, and the thyroid isthmus pulled upwards. Difficulty may arise from the inferior thyroid veins on the front of the trachea and from the occasional presence of the thyroidea ima artery running up the middle line of the trachea. Comment on the Operation.—1. It is impos- sible to describe here all the varieties of trache- otomy tube. The most generally useful one is the ordinary bi-valve tube with a movable shield. 2. The chief difficulties likely to be met with are :— {a) The patient may be an infant with a short, fat neck. This converts what is other- wise an easy operation into a difficult one, for the trachea is deeply situated, and the room for manipulation is limited. If the cardinal rules—to make a long enough incision, to cut