VERTIGO 448 sist of sudden giddiness with ptosis, flaccid paresis of the muscles of the neck, legs, and sometimes of the hands, pain in the neck and occiput, and occasionally diplopia, transient amblyopia, difficulty in swallowing and in chew- ing. The affection has been attributed to toxic exhalations from the stalls, but its nature is obscure ; possibly it is hysterical. The attacks occur several times a day, and between them the patient feels quite well. In any case the prognosis of the disease, which is known locally as " le tourniqiiet," is good, and the attacks after a time cease spontaneously. The treatment of any individual case of vertigo depends upon the accurate diagnosis of its cause. Aural vertigo being by far the commonest form, it is the physician's duty in every case carefully to examine the ears. Vertigo dependent on cerebral hypersemia is to be treated by appropriate depletory measures; whilst gastro-intestinal affections, if present, must be treated by careful regulation of diet, with suitable remedies to aid digestion. In- testinal parasites must be expelled. Even in cases of aural origin, attention to the digestive system must not be overlooked. Lack of food, according to Dr. Hughlings Jackson, is a factor in many cases of aural vertigo, and a patient may sometimes have an attack if he accidentally misses a meal. The beneficial effect of food in such cases is probably due to hypersemia of the abdominal viscera, rendering the blood-supply to the rest of the body, in- cluding the brain, less abundant. Patients with M(5niere's disease should therefore have a rather generous diet, and should have their meals at regular intervals. Where there is arterio-sclerosis, iodides should be exhibited. Gout and syphilis, if present, should be treated. Of all the drugs which benefit the giddiness, bromides, by their sedative action on the nerve centres, are the most efficacious. Any aural defect must of course, if possible, be remedied. Charcot recommended quinine in aural vertigo, others have recommended salicylates, both of these latter to be pushed until their physio- logical effects are produced upon the hearing. In neurasthenic cases, general measures should be employed for the constitutional condition, and may advantageously be combined with counter-irritation in the form of fly-blisters behind the ear. Verumontanum. — A mesial ridge (Lat. veru, a spit; montanus, like a mountain) in the posterior wall of the prostatic part of the male urethra; the crista urethrae. See Urethra, Diseases of {Anatomy, Prostatic Portion). Vesalius, Foramen of.—A small canal occasionally found near the root of the great wing of the sphenoid bone ; it transmits a small vein into the scaphoid fossa. Vesalius, Lig^ament of.—Poupart's ligament (q.v.). Vesania.—Madness or fury of mind (Lat. ve, privative ; and sanus, sound). See Insanity. Vesical.—Relating to a bladder (Lat. vesica, the bladder), more especially the urinary bladder; e.g. the vesical arteries, the vesical ligaments, the vesical sphincter, etc. See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of. Vesicants. — Irritants which produce blisters, e.g. cantharides. See Pharmacology ; Prescribing (By the Cutaneous Surface, Irri- tants). Vesicle.—A small bladder or bladder-like structure; e.g. the umbilical vesicle of the embryo, the cerebral vesicles of the developing brain, the vesicles of various skin diseases, and the seminal vesicles. See Eczema (Lesions); Embryology ; Foot and Mouth Disease (Symp- toms) ; Herpes (Characters); Pemphigus (Defini- tion) ; Typhoid Fever (Complications, Cutan- eous System). VesiCO-.—In compound words vesica- (Lat. vesica, a bladder) means relating to the bladder (usually the urinary bladder); e.g. vesico-cervical (relating to the bladder and cervix uteri), vesico- rectal (relating to the bladder and rectum), and vesico-vaginal (relating to the bladder and vagina). See Labour, Injuries to the Genera- tive Organs (Prolonged Pressure, Vesico- Vaginal Fistula), etc. VesiCUla.—A vesicle or bladder-like structure; e.g. the vesicula fellis (gall-bladder), vesicula umbilicalis or omphalo-mesenterica (um- bilical vesicle), etc. Vesiculse Seminales. Anatomy and Physiology . . . 448 Development ...... 449 Abnormalities ..... 450 Inflammations ..... 450 Acute 450 Subacute and Chronic . . .451 Tuberculous Diseases .... 454 Cysts, etc., etc. ..... 455 Operative Procedures .... 456 See also Prostate Gland ; Urethra ; etc. Anatomy of the Seminal Vesicles.—The semi- nal vesicles are two membranous receptacles, situated one on each side, beneath the base of the bladder, between it and the rectum, close to the angle formed by the bladder and the pelvic wall. When distended they form two long sacculated bodies, widened above and narrow below. Their length is usually about 50 mm., their greatest breadth about 18-5 mm., and their thickness about 10 mm., but they vary both in shape and size in different indi-