URACHUS 242 conditions the discharge must not be taken for urine mixed with pus. But gall-stones have been found in the ui-achal canal (Bramann), and in Faber-Kostlin's case, where fifteen gall- stones had been discharged through the urethra in three years, it was discovered after death that the urinary and gall-bladders communi- cated through an open urachus. It is doubtful whether a diverticulum of the bladder can push its way to the umbilicus. Alleged cases may have been instances of urachal fistula or of bladder replacing the urachus (see Garrigues' case, above). Some authorities believe that ex- travasated urine may leak along the connective tissue of the urachus and find its way out of the umbilicus. A patent Meckel's diverticulum is to be distinguished by examination of a piece of its mucous membrane (see Lexer's case, above). Instead of the stratified epithelium of the urachus most of the structures of intestinal mucosa will be detected. Treatme7it.—The fact already noted, that acquired urachal fistula is often associated with disease of the urinary tract, must never be overlooked. Neglect of this principle means the certain failure, if not worse, of any radical operation. If, on the other hand, the state of the bladder, etc., is considered and treated, spontaneous closure of the fistula may follow. This occurred in Fraser's case, treated by free washing out of the bladder and urachus, and in Goldschmidt's (see above) after suprapubic lithotomy, but not in Paget's case, for urine continued to escape through the umbilicus six years after the stone had been extracted from the fistula. Exposure of the urachal canal and scraping its mucosa are dangerous and caustics unsatisfactory. When the urinary tract and the tissues around the urachus are healthy, complete resection of the fistula, as described above under the treatment of congenital fistula, has proved permanently successful. Urachal cyst includes two varieties: cystic fistula and true cyst. The first is cystic dilata- tion of the urachal canal which opens into the bladder, but is closed at the umbilicus. G. Morgan's (Brighton) case was in a boy, aged five. Newman's patient was a man aged thirty-nine, and subject to a hypogastric swelling. Pain and retention of urine set in suddenly without apparent cause. Twenty ounces of bloody urine were drawn off from the bladder ; a cyst was then detected above it. A fortnight later an operation was performed ; the cyst was en- tirely in front of the peritoneum. It was drained, urine escaped from its cavity for about a month, then it closed completely. The second variety is t7-ue cyst of the urachus, about which much has been written. But the term "urachal cyst" has been applied by Hoff- mann and Lawson Tait to cases where there was little or no evidence that the tumour had de- veloped from the urachus. Wutz has noted that in Hoff'mann's often-quoted case, where fifty litres of fluid were found in the cyst, the urachus was quite distinct. Lawson Tait failed to prove that any of his big so-called " allantoic cysts " were urachal. Some were clearly intra-perito- neal. Tait's theory that the allantois may form a kind of serous membrane for the pelvic viscera has never been proved by dissection. An unobliterated portion of the urachal canal is often detected at an abdominal operation. This condition represents the origin of true cysts of the urachus of which several authentic cases have been reported. They are not associated with malformation of the rest of the genito- urinary tract, excepting one of Bryant's cases, where there was hypospadias. In any case it is possible that Wutz's valve may be forced after the cyst has developed so that it is not always easy to distinguish true cyst from cystic fistula. In the author's case the cyst was bilocular. The larger and upper cavity contained over a pint, the smaller about half a pint of a greenish brown fluid. In one case under Bryant ovarian cyst was suspected. The tumour, preperitoneal as in all urachal cysts, was closely associated with the fundus of the bladder. In a second case under that surgeon a painful swelling developed below the umbilicus in a man aged thirty-five, with slight hypospadias. During drainage after incision some urine came away. Ill, of Newark, New Jersey, reports a bad case of urinary fistula after draining a closed or true cyst. Ferguson, of Troy, N.Y., operated on a man aged forty- seven. The cyst contained two quarts of a watery fluid, and bore a distinct and separable lining membrane which sent digital prolonga- tions between the layers of the abdominal wall near the navel, as often seen in umbilical hernia. Douglas of Nashville removed a urachal cyst containing twenty-five pints of fluid. Lawson Tait enucleated a hypogastric preperitoneal cyst which dipped into the pelvis ; the patient was a woman aged twenty-eight. In Rotter's case the cyst-walls were continuous with the coats of the bladder, and at the point of junction was a villous cancer of the vesical mucous membrane already detected by the cystoscope. The cancer and the bladder-walls around it were dissected away together with the urachal cyst. Ill in- cised and drained a hypogastric cyst of ten years' duration during tlie third month of preg- nancy ; over eight pints of fluid came away. In Morestin's case two distinct cysts, developed from the bead-like dilatations mentioned at the beginning of this article, were detected during an operation for pyosalpinx. Diagnosis.—Urachal cyst forms a fluctuating swelling between the umbilicus and pubes. When it varies in size in the course of a few months its nature will be more clear, as it probably communicates with the bladder. The true cyst is entirely separate from the bladder, it tends to increase slowly, and does not become