371 UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OP^ THE year. The majority of the patients are multi- parous. The signs which attract attention are fitful Fig. 10.—Cancerous uterus in sagittal section. A process of the cancer has crept into the right Fallopian tube. It was impossible to determine whether the cancer arose in the lower part of the body or the upper part of the neck of the uterus. vaginal haemorrhages after the menopause, followed by profuse, offensive, and often blood- stained discharges. The uterus on examination may seem scarcely enlarged; sometimes, how- ever, it may be much bigger than usual. In the majority of cases the diagnosis cannot be established with certainty until the cervical canal is dilated and a fragment of the sus- pected cancer extracted and submitted to microscopic scrutiny. It often happens that when the cervical canal is dilated in this way the disease may be so advanced that there is no reasonable doubt in regard to the diag- nosis, and in such circumstances it is some- times to the best interest of the patient to complete the treatment by at once removing the cancerous organ. Even should it be de- cided to await a microscopic examination of the tissue, it is a useful measure to carefully remove with a blunt curette all the exuberant cancerous material, as this checks bleeding and limits decomposition of the necrotic portions of the cancer. The only successful treatment available for cancer of the body of the uterus is hyster- j ectomy. This operation may be carried out either by the vaginal route or by coeliotomy. The writer has carried out a series of operations by both methods, and has satisfied himself that though the immediate risks of the operation are the same by both methods, the remote con- sequences are much better when the uterus is removed by the abdomen. It must be remem- bered that in cases where the cancerous growth is very luxurious the uterus may be very big, and its removal entire through the vagina be- comes an impossibility, for it is a matter of tlie first importance to remove a cancerous uterus entire and without undue handling and squeeze- ing, because the one great danger which women run in the operative treatment of this disease is cancer-infection. When the peritoneum is fouled with cancer material the cells possess so much power of independent growth that large masses of cancer spring up on the pelvic peri- toneum in a few weeks and quickly destroy the patient. When the uterus is removed by the ab- dominal route the operator is not only able to completely extirpate the uterus, but he can remove the Fallopian tubes, ovaries, and ad- jacent segments of the broad ligaments. It has also this advantage, that it enables the operator to satisfy himself as to the extent of the disease, and also he can assure himself as to the absence of lymph-gland infection and dissemination. Should either of these conditions be present, then it would be useless to perform hysterectomy. It is a fortunate matter that the prospects of a patient after hysterectomy for cancer of the body of the uterus are infinitely better than in cancer of the cervix, and a number of cases can be brought together where women have had immunity from recurrence for five and even ten years. The great secret of success is early recognition of the disease and prompt treatment. fIG. 11.—Uterus in coronal section : it is occupied with a cancerous mass, portions of which projected as polypoid processes with rounded ends into the cavity of the uterus. Cancer of the Uterus and Fibroids.— Uterine fibroids are very common, so is cancer of the uterus, and as the maximum of frequency in relation to age is very near in the two dis-