406 VAGINA, DISORDERS OF THE converted into ulcers by the action of septic or pathogenic germs. Such iilcers show a firmly adherent greenish grey membranous deposit, which is composed chiefly of dead tissue, and often leads to the term diphtheritic being er- roneously applied to the affection. In the base of the ulcer and in its neighbourhood there are oedematous swelling and profuse infiltration of the vaginal walls, and the whole vagina is often swollen and brawny as the skin is in erysipe- latous conditions; hence this condition has been described as erysipelatous vaginitis. In the more severe forms the inflammation spreads in the para-vaginal tissues and upwards to the rest of the pelvic connective tissue, the whole of which may become involved as the result of a severe infection in a quite small injury. The most frequent cause of this severe type of puer- peral vaginitis is the streptococcus pyogenes. A similar affection may occur as the result of operation wounds where antiseptic measures have been imperfectly carried out, or of other injuries inflicted upon the vagina. Ulceration may also arise secondarily from suppuration in the neighbourhood, and perforating the walls of the vagina; the forms of suppuration most frequently found pointing in this direction are para-metritic abscesses and suppurating hsematoceles. 4. Specific Inflammations and Ulcerations. —Certain specific causes in addition to those already mentioned are also found giving rise to ulceration or to inflammation of the vagina, and it will be convenient to mention some of them here. Sarcoma and carcinoma usually, and simple tumours occasionally, are found inflamed and ulcerated. Tuberculous disease is usually met with in the form of ulceration. A simple round idcer has been described by Zahn; tliis ulcer was circular in shape, had a red base and sharply defined sloping edges, and was supposed to be due to arterial sclerosis leading to deficient nutrition of a circumscribed portion of the vaginal wall. It is at least possible that this ulcer may have been tuberculous in origin. Syphilis in any stage may be found affecting the vagina; the primary chancre is rare; in the secondary stage red patches or papules or mucous tubercles are observed; in the tertiary period deep gmnmatous changes are occasionally met with. Soft sores have been observed in the vagina, and as a rare occurrence phagedsenic sores resembling those found on the penis have been encountered. This is probably the most convenient place to mention Noma of the vagina, although it is really a gangrenous process. Noma usually spreads inwards from the vulva, but has occa- sionally been found arising primarily in the vagina, even at its upper part, where it very soon spreads to the cervix and often to the bladder. In many cases noma of the face has been present at the same time. Tuberculosis of the Vagina.—Tuberculosis of the vagina as a primary affection is extremely rare, only one well-authenticated case having been placed on record. Secondary tubercle is very uncommon; it is generally secondary to disease of the uterus or vulva, and is thus usually situated at the upper end of the vagina or just above the entrance. It is also some- times met with in pulmonary tuberculosis, or in conjunction with disease of the urinary organs or of the rectum. The miliary form of vaginal tuberculosis, where greyish-white tubercles are found disseminated, or grouped, or sometimes joining to form small nodules, is extremely rare. Usually the disease when present gives rise to an ulcer with edges sharply cut, more or less irregular or jagged, not raised or thickened ; the base of the ulcer is uneven and discoloured with caseous spots and patches ; there is a red areola in which, as well as in the base of the ulcer, small miliary tubercles may be recog- nised ; and the ulcer is sometimes very tender. Occasionally in advanced cases of the affection recto-vaginal or vesico-vaginal fistulse are found. Microscopic examination of the edges and neighbourhood of the ulcer shows the usual collections of round cells, together with giant- cells, and the characteristic bacilli. The treatment of vaginitis calls for the employment of general as well as local measures. Any constitutional tendency or taint, such as struma, gout, rheumatism, or syphilis, should receive attention ; the general health must be improved by every possible means, and care is to be taken to encourage the regular and adequate action of all the e.xcretory organs—the bowels, kidneys, skin, and lungs. The local treatment varies with the stage and activity of the disease. In acute cases rest in bed is re- quired. The exciting cause must, where possible, be removed, and care taken to prevent other causes arising or persisting ; thus foreign bodies must be taken out, harmful or dangerous germs removed or destroyed by antiseptic applications, and discharges or membranes, which offer a suitable medium for the growth of germs must be got rid of. Finally, means must be employed to further the formation of healthy epithelium, and where there is any deeper loss of tissue to promote granulation. The methods that have been devised to meet these various indications may be divided shortly into treatment by wet methods, treatment by tampons, and the dry methods of treatment. Among the wet methods, douches are chiefly useful in aiding to get rid of discharges and other products of inflammation; they should be employed in quantities of at least 3 or 4 pints, warm at a temperature which is most grateful to the patient, and should be administered at low pressure, the douche-can being raised not more than 18 inches above the level of the pelvis; the douche ought further to be given