458 VETEKINARY MEDICINE Veterinary Medicine.—The science of medicine as applied to the domestic animals, especially to the horse and cow. VeternOSitas. See Coma Vigil. Via.—A way, e.g. primse vise or vise naturales (the intestines). Viability.—Capability of living apart from the mother; the possibility of extra-\iterine as compared with intra-uterine life; an infant is said to be viable when it possesses this power; accoi'ding to Scotch Law an infant may be viable at six lunar months or 168 days. Vi bices. — Cadaveric lividities, sugilla- tions, or post-mortem stains; in the singular the word is vibex (Lat. vibex, a weal). See Purpura (^Character of Cutaneous Haemorrhages); PosT-MoRTEM Methods {External Examination, Discoloration s). Vibration. See Constipation(Treatoiew^, Massage, Vibration); Nose, Chronic Inflam- mation (Atrophic Rhinitis, Treatment, Vih'atoi-y Massage of Turbinated Bones). Vibrio.—One of the schizomycetes among the bacteria. See Micro-organisms. Vibro-massag'e. —Vibratory massage. See Massage. Viburnum Prunifoiium. — Black Haw; it is official in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia and in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the B.P. for 1898, and has been used in threatened abortion, dysmenorrhoea, and menorrhagia (dose, 1 to 2 fl. dr. of the fluid extract). Vicarious IVienstruation.—A san- guineous discharge from some part of the body other than the uterus, believed to represent the menstrual discharge (which fails or is diminished in quantity); xenomenia ; literally, vicarius is that which takes another's place. See Menstruation and its Disorders (Vicarious); Mammary Gland, Diseases of (Mastitis of Adolescence). Vice. Definition and General Considerations 458 The Alimentary System . . . 460 Childish Eating — Drinking — Drug Habits—Smoking—Constipation . 460 The Neuro-Muscular System . . 462 Neglect of Exercise—Excessive Move- ments ...... 462 The Sexual System . . . .462 Physiological Psychology of the Sexual Function— Apathy — Excess—Un- natural Vice .... 462 See also Alcoholism ; Masturbation ; Mor- phinomania ; etc. Vice—Some Medical Aspects of The term under which we have decided to write this article is probably not the best that might have been chosen, for it carries with it too much ethical import, and our first step must be to repudiate the moral imputation which the word vice conveys. There is no need for us to attempt philosophical accuracy, much less to aim at a contribution to ethics. Yet there is some resemblance between the view which the wise physician must take of certain practices to which some of his patients are addicted, and that with which the pastor or the teacher re- gards sin. From a moralist's point of view, vice must have a negative definition as a failure to achieve virtue, and so, to the physician, certain practices must appear as a failure to achieve the normal. For our purpose it is sufficient to define vice as a voluntary neglect or abuse of normal functions. We have to consider what the habits and actions are which interfere with health ; and, in every relation of the organism, these may be considered as acts of neglect or as acts of abuse. For instance, it is vicious to neglect one's teeth, and it is vicious to chew tobacco; to take no exercise, and to " scorch " on wheels; to decline to eat, to eat too much, and to eat rubbish; not to make love, to make too much, and to make it in the wrong way. At the outset we are confronted with the difficulty of determining what is too much or too little of anything, because we cannot ever expect to agree as to what is just enough even of a good thing; and still more difficult is it to agree as to what those things are which, in the vague phrase of some, are "harmless in them- selves." Every case must be a law unto itself in the simple and physiological sense that any- thing is good which promotes the fitness of the whole organism, and anything bad which de- tracts from it. That at once debars us from social considerations, and sets aside the whole problem of motive. Many things which are good for the organism must, at least at times, be denied for the sake of society; and many things which are bad for the organism men and women pursue out of a desire to benefit their fellows. It is enough to suggest these, and a host of other considerations which we propose to ignore, to amplify the confession that this is anything but a contribution to ethics. We propose to discuss baneful actions simply as such. And when we try to discover what is good for the organism we come face to face at once with the question of what the organism is for. And we had best assume that the organism does not exist for its own pleasure or satisfaction, or for the approbation of any critic ; or at least that it is not judicious for physicians to admit any such doctrine as a sober truth. The or-