410 VAGINA, DISOEDERS OF THE more or less distending the vaginal lumen. In some cases, less frequently met with, the epi- thelioma infiltrates the whole or the greater part of the length of the mucous membrane, so that the vagina is transformed into a rigid, unyielding, and narrow tube. In all forms the glands are stated to be early implicated. The growth extends along the surface, the cervix, especially the posterior lip, being early involved; sometimes the vulva is invaded, and then the inguinal glands may be affected. Ex- tension also takes place deeply thi-ough the wall of the vagina into the para-vaginal tissue and upwards into the parametrium, as well as backwards round the rectum. Epithelioma of the vagina is usually a disease of advanced life, but has occasionally been met with in women under thirty. In several cases the long-continued wearing of a pessary has preceded the appearance of the disease, and in a few instances it has arisen on a prolapsed vagina. The symptoms are the same as those of cancer of the vaginal portion of the cervix. The first symptom is always bleeding, especially on touch, and thus especially in sexual connec- tion ; wasting is often observed as an early symptom. Later in the history of the case come foetid discharge and pain, and finally the cancerous cachexia, with frequently the forma- tion of fistulte, especially recto-vaginal. The diagnosis depends on the recognition of indura- tion with peculiar superficial unevenness of the surface, and friability. Difficulty may arise in distinguishing the affection from sloughing myoma of the vagina, and from ulcers attended by some degree of proliferation, such as may be set lip, for instance, by a badly fitting pessary. The prognosis is very grave, even after operation. The treatment consists in the radical removal of the disease, when it is recognised sufficiently early. The removal has been carried out through the vagina, through the perineum, and by the sacral method. Olshausen's perineal method {Cent.filr Gyndk., 1895, p. 1) is probably the best. In this the perineum is divided transversely, and blunt separation of the vagina from the rectum is continued as high as the bottom of Douglas's pouch ; the peritoneum is opened behind the vagina and the uterus drawn down through the opening. The broad liga- ments are then secured, beginning at the upper border and working down towards the side of the cervix. Finally, the anterior wall of the vagina is separated from the bladder. In circumscribed tumours a partial excision of the vagina may suffice, but in all advanced cases the whole of the tube should, if possible, be removed. In women who still menstruate it is usually necessary to remove the uterus at the same time ; in older women this is not so essential. Where the disease is already too far advanced for radical operation, treatment can only be palliative, and is carried out on the usual lines. Injuries of the Vagina.—Accidental wounds of the vagina rarely are met with as the result of falls on to such objects as the leg of a stool or the point of a hay-fork. Occasionally lacera- tions are caused by coitus, but in such cases the injured vagina is the shrunken, inelastic canal of an old woman, or is abnormally formed or altered by cicatrices. In criminal attempts at abortion, wounds are not unfrequently made, and in these cases the wound is usually in the posterior formix behind the cervix. The in- juries that are caused by labour are the most frequent and important class, and are considered separately (vol. v. p. 268). By whatever cause produced, wounds may give rise to serious haemorrhage, which is, where possible, best treated by appropriate sutures, or, failing this, by packing with iodoform gauze. Many of the injuries are of importance only from the damage that is at the same time caused to neighbouring organs, the bladder, ureters, or rectum. In all wounds of the vagina there is risk of septic infection, to prevent serious consequences from which it is necessary to pro- vide for adequate drainage. Among the uncommon affections of the vagina may be mentioned hcematoma, by which is meant hsemorrhage into the connective tissue surround- ing the tube. This is extremely rare apart from pregnanc3% and is due to an injiiry which causes no superficial wound or only a small one, while at the same time a vein or small artery is ruptured. A tumour forms in the course of a day or two, and is made up of blood, usually venous, partly fluid and partly clotted. The tumour is irregular in shape, has well-defined borders, and is not very tender; its consistence varies in different parts, is for the most part tense elastic, or may be fluctuating ; the mucous membrane covering the tumour is livid and discoloured, and there may be a small breach of surface. The treatment of hsematoma is in the first place expectant; if the tumour con- tinues to increase in size an incision may be necessary, the clots being turned out and the cavity stuffed with gauze. At a later stage suppuration may take place, and a free incision is then demanded. Foreign Bodies.—Foreign bodies may be introduced into the vagina for the purpose of mechanical treatment; thus pessaries are fre- quently left in the vagina, and may be neglected or even entirely forgotten by the patient. Not rarely objects are introduced into the vagina for the purpose of sexual gratification, either by the patient herself or by another person ; bodies of the most varied and often surprising nature may thus be found, such as pieces of sponge, glass stoppers, spoons, drinking-glasses, hair- pins, and tobacco-pipes. A pessary properly constructed and applied, and made of a suitable