THYROID GLAND, MEDICAL SECTION 14 of dyspnoea with cyanosis which may even prove fatal. Profuse bronchorrhoea has been observed in a few cases, and is considered by Bramwell to be analogous to the sweating and diarrhoea to which some patients are liable. Digestive System.—In a considerable number of cases there is an increased frequency of de- faecation. This must be distinguished from diarrhosa, as the motions are solid and normal in character. In these cases the bowels may act two or three times a day. No harm ap- parently results beyond the inconvenience which it causes. Sudden attacks of diarrhoea are not at all uncommon. As a rule there is no pain, and the motions are loose and copious. Two or three may be passed in a day, and then the attack ceases, or it may continue for two or three days and then terminate as suddenly as it began. Vomiting may be a troublesome symptom, and sometimes is difficult to control. It developed in the case already mentioned with early rapid respiration, and continued until the patient died from exhaustion. Dr. D. Drummond recently drew my attention to a great craving for food which he had observed in some cases, and since then I have seen several cases in which there was a marked increase in the appetite. Genito-Uriiiary System.—The urine is normal in the majority of cases; in some, however, the quantity is increased. Intermittent albuminuria is present in some cases, and glycosuria has also frequently been observed. Menstruation is often irregular. Periods of amenorrhoea are not uncommon, while in some cases there is menor- rhagia. Pregnancy may occur, and may be accompanied by improvement in the symptoms, though haemorrhage after delivery may be ex- cessive. General Symptoms.—Emaciation is present in nearly all well-marked cases of Graves' disease, and is frequently in proportion to the severity of the other symptoms. The actual loss of weight is very considerable in some cases, and may amount to as much as forty pounds in a year, or even to ninety-three pounds in ten months, as in two cases mentioned by Mannheim. Varying degrees of anaemia may often be ob- served in exophthalmic goitre, though by no means constantly. A slight rise of temperatixre is not uncommon, and may be persistent, or of only temporary duration, recurring from time to time. Varieties.—All the symptoms of the disease may vary greatly in intensity in different cases. In one exophthalmos may be the most striking symptom, in another the frequency of the pulse, and in another the goitre or the tremors and general nervousness, while the other symptoms are only slightly developed. A well-marked case is easily recognised, but where one or more of the primary symptoms are slight or absent altogether, the real nature of the case may be overlooked. In the incom- plete cases there may be no exophthalmos. In some of these, however, there is a slight widen- ing of the palpebral fissure which gives rise to a startled expression. An increase in the pulse- rate is present in all cases. The presence of this symptom alone in a patient without any obvious explanation should always lead to a careful search for other symptoms of Graves' disease, for many cases of so-called " tachy- cardia " are really incomplete cases of exoph- thalmic goitre. The enlargement of the thyroid in some cases is only slight, but in nearly all cases there is some enlargement at the time of the examina- tion, or a clear history of it having been present at an earlier stage. Course, Duration, and Termination.—The course of exophthalmic goitre varies very con- siderably in different cases. There is usually a period of development during which the symp- toms appear and gradually increase in severity. This period may vary from a few weeks to several months or a year. After a time the symptoms remain more or less stationary in . many cases, with slight temporary variations. This stage may last only a few weeks, or may continue for many months or for several years. After this, in a favourable case, the symptoms gradually decrease in severity. In some they finally disappear altogether, while in others they become so slight that the patient feels practically well again. In these cases, however, a careful examination may still reveal a some- what frequent pulse, slight enlargement of the thyroid gland, a faint tremor or some general nervousness of which the patient herself is fortunately unaware. Sometimes the onset is acute, and this may be followed by an acute course and early re- covery within two or three months. On the other hand, these acute cases may run a rapid downward course to a fatal termination within a similar period of time. In the majority of cases the symptoms run a more chronic course, and may persist for years. Four or five years is a not uncommon period for the symptoms to last. In two cases which I saw twelve and thirteen years after the onset, the symptoms were still well marked. In another case, twenty years after the commence- ment, the pulse was 92, the thyroid gland was normal in size, and there was very slight exophthalmos with slight retraction of the upper eyelids. The patient considered that she had quite recovered from the disease, as she was not conscious of these slight traces of her former condition. Recovery from exophthalmic goitre may be followed by the development of myxcedema. In these cases the enlarged gland is gradually reduced in size by a progressive fibrosis which is beneficial up to a certain point, and is accom- panied by a subsidence of the symptoms of