67 TOXICOLOGY phyrin, an iron-free derivative of hsematin, which demonstrates that the drug is acting as a blood poison. Vomiting and pain in the stomach and abdomen, profuse perspiration, accelerated pulse and respiration, reeling gait, ataxia, and suppression of the urine, have also been recorded. Death has taken place from cardiac failure. Enormous doses of more than an ounce—three ounces in one case—have been recovered from. When sulphonal, or trional, is being given for prolonged periods, the urine should always be inspected at frequent inter- vals, and if it be discoloured the drug should at once be stopped. Carbon Bisulphide.—Acute poisoning by this substance is very rare. In one instance half an ounce caused death in a little over two hours; recovery has followed two ounces. The cause of death is paralysis of the respiratory centres. Tha treatment consists in emptying the stomach, applying warmth to the body, and using artificial respiration if the breathing flags. Elimination of any of the poison that has been absorbed should be promoted by purgatives and diuretics. The tendency to drowsiness which is usually manifested should be combated as in poisoning with narcotics generally. Chronic poisoning hy carbon bisulphide is met with among those who are engaged in certain departments in rubber factories. The initial symptoms comprise nausea, vomiting, headache, anorexia, sleeplessness, colicky pains, and mental instability—the patient is either exalted or de- pressed. Later on symptoms of multiple neuritis occur: burning, numbness, and tingling in the hands and feet, followed by paralysis, producing wrist- and ankle-drop. The field of vision has been found restricted for all colours ; amblyopia and scotomata, without retinal changes, are common. Petroleum and Paraffin Oil have produced dangerous symptoms and even death, but they cannot be regarded as active poisons. Some kinds appear to be much more noxious than others; on more than one occasion half a pint of petroleum, or of paraffin oil, has been swallowed without causing more than temporary disorder. On the other hand severe symptoms have occasionally been produced by lesser quantities, and in one or two instances death has resulted. The symptoms produced are not constant; they comprise vomiting, abdominal pain, the odour of the poison in the breath, drowsiness, collapse, feeble pulse, sighing respira- tion, cyanosis, and the presence of some of the oil in the motions and even in the urine. The motions have been mixed with blood. The pulse and respiration rates have been much accelerated; the pulse to 140, and the respira- tions to 50 in the minute. Benzene, also called benzole, produces toxic symptoms which resemble those caused by alcohol. Fatal poisoning has resulted from the inhalation of the vapour of benzene. In addition to the odour of benzene in the breath, the respirations are slow—may be only eight to the minute—and stertorous; the pulse is usually quick, and when death takes place it has been observed to be due to cardiac failure. When recovery has taken place the odour of benzene in the breath has persisted for two or three days. One ounce has proved fatal. Nitro-Benzene has caused death in small doses, such as twenty drops; recovery has followed nearly one ounce. The symptoms comprise giddiness ; loss of power ; vomiting ; quick, feeble pulse; shallow, irregular breath- ing ; subnormal temperature, and a peculiar cyanotic appearance of the face and fingers, with dark blue lips. The treatment, as with benzene, is to wash out the stomach, to apply external warmth and friction, and, if necessary, to resort to artificial respiration. Coal-Tar Derivatives.—Aniline, often called aniline oil, speedily causes symptoms of poison- ing when swallowed; six drachms have caused death. The symptoms resemble those caused by nitro-benzene, the most remarkable being a peculiar blueness of the body, more marked than ordinary cyanosis, which persists after the breathing has become natural, and may occur without any disturbance of the respiration. The treatment is the same as for nitro-benzene. Antifebrin has frequently produced "cyan- osis " and other poisonous symptoms when ad- ministered under medical supervision. Of re- cent years the sale of "headache powders," which contain from four to ten grains of anti- febrin, has placed the drug within the reach of ignorant people who freely resort to it, and take it in a most reckless way. In one instance, a woman took six of these powders every day for a month, which caused the skin to become bluish grey for more than a fortnight. The application of antifebrin, as an antiseptic, to raw surfaces has caused death. Antipyrin has occasionally given rise to symptoms of poisoning, but not so frequently as antifebrin. In addition to the blue discolora- tion of the cheeks and lips, excessive doses of antipyrin have caused urticarial and other rashes to break out over the body. Phenacetin on two occasions has caused death, and has often caused serious symptoms, such as dyspnoea, vomiting, diarrhoea, headache, and vertigo, together with the blue—sometimes almost black—hue of parts of the surface of the body, especially of the face; the mucous mem- brane of the mouth also may be discoloured. The urine may become chocolate-coloured, due to the presence of methfemoglobin. All these coal-tar derivatives, by prolonged administration, tend to act as blood-poisons. Salicylate of Soda sometimes produces un- toward effects, such as haemorrhage from the gums, epistaxis, retinal htemorrhages, hsema-