URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 273 when this rise has reached its limit the reading of the thermometer gives the true freezing- point of the solution. The determination of the freezing-point of a solution supplies a measure of its osmotic pressure, which again is proportional to the number of molecules of the substance in solution in a unit volume of the solvent. Thus equi- molecular solutions of different indifferent sub- stances lower the freezing-point to equal extents, and when two such substances are in solution together, the lowering of the freezing-point which results is equal to the sum of the de- pressions which the two substances would individually produce. In the case of acids, bases, and salts, the lower- ing of the freezing-point is markedly in excess of that which corresponds to the number of mole- cules present, an anomaly which is explained by supposing that in solution they are dissociated into their component ions, which must be supposed to produce the effect of independent molecules. Thus the depression of the freezing-point of the urine below 0° C. corresponds to the total number of dissolved molecules or ions, and when the excretion of twenty-four hours is measured, affords an index of the total number of mole- cules or ions of all kinds passed in that period. The most abundant constituents will naturally be responsible for most of the effect, and these are sodium chloride and urea. Von Koranyi attaches much importance to the ratio between the lowering of the freezing- point and the excretion of sodium chloride, and believes that a disturbance of their relation affords a very valuable indication of backward pressure in the kidneys in cases of cardiac disease. He found that the normal freezing-point of the blood was - 0'56° C, whereas the normal freezing-point of the urine of twenty-four hours was between - l-3°-2'2°. The variations of the ratio of freezing-point to sodium chloride ex- cretion in twenty-four hours was much less conspicuous under normal conditions, viz. from I-23-1-69. In cases of renal disease the molecular ex- cretion may be considerably diminished, indi- cating a failure in the renal functions, and this deficiency may reach such a point that the freezing-point of the urine may actually be higher than that of the blood of the same patient. Thus Lindemann, who found the normal freezing-point of the urine to vary between -1-30° and -2-30° C, states that in inflammatory diseases of the kidneys, in which average quantities were passed in the twenty- four hours, the depression of the freezing-point is usually less than one degree. Lindemann also found that in interstitial nephritis the phenomenon is much less marked than in the parenchymatous variety, and again VOL. X that in acute nephritis the progressive depres- sion of the freezing-point of the urine until ultimately normal figures were reached afforded a valuable index of the process of repair in the kidneys. It will not be desirable in the present state of our knowledge to enter here upon any detailed consideration of the somewhat compli- cated questions which arise in connection with this method of urinary investigation, which is as yet in its infancy, nor to discuss the theories upon which von Koranyi explains the results which he has obtained in cases of cardiac disease with secondary disturbances in the kidneys. These will be found set forth at length in his original papers, and an interesting summary of them, in our own language, was given by Huddleston in the Philadelphia Medical Journal in 1900. The most valuable results are obtained by the comparison of the freezing-points of the blood and urine respectively, and also by comparing the urine obtained from each kidney separately by catheterisation of the ureters. Reaction.—The acid reaction of normal urine is not due to the presence of a free acid, but to acid salts of which the mono-sodium phosphate is the most important. The degree of acidity is to a large extent determined by the relative amounts of mono- and di-sodium phosphates present, and when a certain proportion is reached the urine will have an amphoteric reaction, that is to say, will redden blue litmus, and render red litmus blue. This is the con- dition with what are known as neutral urines, but which are not neutral in the strict sense of the term. The reaction of the urine varies at different periods of the day, and the excretion of alkaline urine, rendered turbid by precipitation of earthy phosphates, during the morning hours is not uncommon, even with healthy persons. Diminished acidity is also observed an hour or two after a meal. A diet rich in meat tends to increase the acidity of the urine, whereas a vegetable diet has a contrary effect, and the urine of vege- tivorous animals is habitually alkaline. The administration of mineral acids raises the acidity of the urine to some extent, and alkalies have a still more conspicuous effect in lowering acidity, or, if taken in sufficient quantities, of rendering the urine alkaline. The sodium and potassium salts of such organic acids as citric and tartaric, which become converted into carbonates in the body, also diminish the acidity of the urine. Absorption of alkaline exudates and transu- dates is accompanied by diminished acidity or even alkalinity of the urine, and conversely the formation of such effusions, with a correspond- ing withdrawal of alkalies from the blood, tends to render the urine more acid. 18