TRACHELORRHAPHY 84 Trachelorrhaphy. — Repair of the torn cervix uteri; Emmet's operation. TrachelOSChisiS- — Congenital fissure of the neck ; schistocormus fissicollis. Tracheloterata. — Malformations and structural anomalies afiecting the cervical region, e.g. fistula colli, cervical auricles and cysts, cervical ribs, etc. Trachelotomy.—Incision into the cer- vix uteri. TracheO-.—In compound words tracheo- (Lat. trachia, the windpipe) means relating to the trachea, e.g. tracheobronchitis (inflammation of trachea and bronchi), tracheolaryngeal (be- longing to trachea and larynx) tracheoscopy (in- spection of the trachea by the laryngeal mirror), and tracheostenosis (narrowing of the trachea). Tracheotomy.—The operation of open- ing into the trachea, either below or above the isthmus of the thyroid, either through the crico- thyroid membrane or through the cricoid car- tilage. See Trachea (Tracheotomy) and Cross References. Trach ielCOSiS. — Ulceration of the trachea. See Trachea {Diseases of). Trac h i n U S. See Snake-Bites and Poison- ous Fishes {Poison Wounds caused by Fish, " Weavers " or Trachinus). Trachoma. See Conjunctiva, Diseases OY {Chronic Ophthalmia, Trachoma); Eye, Clini- cal Examination of {Palpebral Conjunctiva, Granular Lids); Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflammations {Nodular Laryngitis or Trachoma of the Vocal Cords). Tracing'. See Physiology, Circulation {Pulse Tracings) \ VisiSE {Sphygmograj^h, Use of). Tract or TractUS.—A region of the body, e.g. of the spinal cord, which has its length considerably greater than its breadth or thick- ness, e.g. the tracts of white matter in the spinal cord and brain; also the alimentary or the genito-urinary canals. See Physiology, Spinal Cord and Medulla Oblongata {Tracts). Traction, Axis. See Labour, Obste- tric Operations {Forceps). Tractoration.—Treatment by metallic tractors. See Pbrkinism. Trades, Dangerous. Lead-Poisoning 84 Symptomatology . . . .86 Pathology ..... 88 Diagnosis and Prognosis ... 88 Treatment . . . . .88 Mercury 89 Symptomatology .... 89 Pathology, etc. .... 90 Treatment ..... 90 Phosphorus and Lucifer Match-Making 90 Symptomatology . . . .91 Pathology, etc.. . . . .92 Treatment • . . . .93 Bisulphide of Carbon and India-Rubbbr Manufacture . . . . .93 Symptomatology .... 93 Treatment ..... 94 Inflammable Paints and Benzine . . 94 Treatment ..... 94 Aniline and Dinitrobbnzine— Description of Process of Manufacture —Symptomatology ... 95 Risks attending the Manufacture and Use of High Explosives . . 96 Workers in the Chemical Trades . . 96 The Manufacture and Use of the Bi- chromate Compounds ... 98 Workers in Arsenic .... 98 Copper and Brass : Brassfounders' Ague 99 The Textile Trades : Cotton and Linen 99 See also Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata ; Dermatitis in Coal-Miners ; Toxicology {Lead-Poisoning, etc.). Lead-Poisoning Synonyms.—Plumbism ; Saturnine Poisoning ; Painters' Colic ; Colica Poitou ; Fr., Intoxica- tion Saturnine; Germ., Bleivergiftung. Of all forms of metallic poisoning that caused by lead is far and away the commonest, owing to lead being so widely used in the arts and in commerce. The peculiarity of lead-poisoning is that it may develop so insidiously that a person is sometimes precipitated into a state of serious ill-health without much warning. The causes of plumbism may, roughly speak- ing, be regarded as three : accidental, industrial, and self-induced. Under accidental poisoning are to he included those cases in which plumbism has been caused by drinking water that has become contaminated either through being stored in a lead cistern or through having lain overnight in the conduit-pipe that leads from the main into the interior of the house, through eating canned food that has become adulterated in consequence of the acid juices having acted upon the solder, also through eating food that has been cooked in cheap enamelled pans. A few cases, too, can be traced to the use of certain hair-dyes. Under the head of industrial lead-poisoning must be included a variety of trades, e.g. the smelting of lead, the manufacture and packing of red and white lead, dye-works using chrome or yellow lead compounds, house- and coach-painting, electric accumulator works, plumbing, manufacture of pottery, file-cutting, glass-polishing, etc. Self-induced lead-poison-