URINE, BACTERIA IN 312 this organism in some cases will show a resist- ance to the action of acid and alcohol equal to that of the tubercle bacillus. A carefully ob- tained catheter specimen will often avoid this difficulty, but in cases where any doubt still remains, and indeed in every case, inoculation into a susceptible animal will decide the matter with absolute certainty. GoNOCOCCus.—The urine in the great majority of cases becomes first contaminated with gono- cocci in its passage down the urethra. True gonorrhceal cystitis does, however, occur. Wer- theim was able to demonstrate culturally and microscopically the presence of gonococci in a portion of the mucous membrane removed from the bladder of a young girl. When the urine contains an appreciable amoimt of pus, films may be made from it, if necessary, after centri- fugalising. In the absence of much pus the best material to take for examination lies in the gonorrhceal "threads," which consist of shreds of mucus with adherent leucocytes. If the specimens are stained by Gram's method and counterstained by some contrasting dye, the gonococci will be found stained by the counter- stain (they lose the stain in Gram's method), and any of the ordinary pyogenic cocci, if present, will be stained by the gentian violet. The typical shape and arrangement of their intracellular situation, taken with this staining reaction, will in a majority of the cases suffice to establish the diagnosis. When the gonococci are only present in very scanty numbers re- peated examination may be necessary. Sometimes admixture with foreign organisms renders the diagnosis by microscopical examina- tion difficult or even impossible. In such cases of difficulty, and also where the cocci are few in number, cultural experiments, which require special media, may enable a diagnosis to be arrived at. Actinomyces.—A large number of cases are now on record (Tuffier) of actinomycosis affect- ing the urinary tract. The presence of the characteristic granules in the urine with a microscopical examination of fresh and stained specimens is sufficient to establish a diagnosis. Pneumaturia.—When gas is voided with the urine there exists in most cases a fistulous communication between the bladder and the intestine. In certain rare cases gas is actually formed in the bladder without any such lesion being present, and is then due to action of micro-organisms. In 1883 Guiard published four cases of spon- taneous development of gas in the bladder. The gas was odourless, but no chemical analysis was made of it nor any proper bacteriological examination. The presence of large numbers of " vibriones" was noted in two cases. All the patients were diabetics and suffered from cys- titis, and the author suggested that fermenta- tion by some micro-organism was the cause of the gas formation. In the same year Dumenil published a case of a similar nature. In 1889 Fr. MuUer described a case also in a diabetic. A bacillus was present in large numbers, but no pure culture was obtained. An elaborate analysis of the gas found in the bladder gave CO2 19'8 per cent, N 35 per cent (probably by interchange with the gases of the blood), H 44 per cent, 0-23 per cent, CH^ '086 per cent. Senator demonstrated the presence of T. cerevisise in one case, the gas being CO2 only, and Frisch the parasite of thrush (oidium albi- cans), and Pere an organism of the coli group. The urine of all these cases contained sugar. Montt Saavedro recovered Friedliinder's bacillus from two cases of cystitis, with free gas in the urine. In one of these cases the urine contained no sugar. Heyse and Schnitzler have also published cases of pneumaturia, the former's due to the B. lactis aerogenes, the latter to B. coli, in which the urine was free from sugar. It is well to remember, as pointed out by Senator, at least as to cases where the fermen- tation is due to yeast, that though the urine may be free from sugar when voided, it may have contained it as secreted. Gas-forming, strictly anaerobic, organisms have been found post-mortem by Williams, Lindenthal, Dunham, and others, as the cause of emphysema of some part of the genito-urinary tract, free gas being also present in the urinary passages, and it is not improbable that anaerobes may be present more often than is suspected. Their presence would enable us to understand more readily those cases of gas formation in sugar-free urines which have been recorded. Hydrothionuria.—The presence of sulphu- retted hydrogen in the urine may result from the action of micro-organisms in the bladder, as shown by the cases of Rosenheim, Karplus, and Savor. The organism found has always been some member of the coli group. Apart from the existence of vesico-intestinal fistulee, it may be doubted whether cases of hydrothionuria can occur in any other way. The earlier explanations of diffusion from the intestine into the bladder or excretion from the blood by the kidney of gas absorbed from the bowel may now be reasonably doubted. UrinetteS.—Public urinals for the use of women; large cities are slowly being pi'ovided with them. UriniferOUS.—Carrying or transmitting urine, e.g. the tubules of the kidney, the ureters, and the urethra. See Kidneys, Physiology of. UrinO-.—Relating to the urine or to the urinary apparatus; e.g. urinogenital tract (the various urinary and genital organs), urino- cryoscopy (the cryoscopic examination of the