248 UREMIA and that, when the kidney substance was greatly diminished in amount or entirely removed, the blood not only contained a great excess of urea, but the tissues, and especially the muscles, con- tained large quantities of urea and other nitro- genous bodies of the creatin class. Several other observers have also noted that in uraemia there is an accumulation of creatin-like bodies. The frequent occurrence of urtemic symptoms during the rapid disappearance of renal dropsy is extremely suggestive. It has been thought that certain toxic alkaloids or ptomaines become stored up in the dropsical fluid, and that they may under certain conditions, especially when attempts are made to reduce the dropsy rapidly, be suddenly thrown into the circulation, and thus induce convulsions and coma. Such symp- toms are usually attributed to reabsorption of nitrogenous materials, but Dr. William Carter has suggested that they may be due to a pro- gressively diminished alkalinity, or perhaps actual acidity of the blood. In support of this contention he states that although, under ordinary circumstances, subcutaneous effusions are alkaline or neutral, in Bright's disease they are frequently acid. From the clinical side it appears almost im- possible to accept any single chemical theory in explanation of all forms of ursemia. It has been argued that poisons like morphine, arsenic, or belladonna, produce very different symptoms in different individuals, or in different doses, and that therefore there is no inherent difficulty in assuming similar variations as the result of a single poisonous substance in urajmia. Al- though this argument is perhaps permissible with the ordinary symptoms of acute and of chronic ursemia, it is scarcely to be regarded as satisfactory when applied to the modified forms of either condition. It is more likely that these variations are due to the accumulation within the body of several poisonous products of slightly different action, than that they can be ascribed merely to idiosyncrasies or to different doses of one toxic substance. Diagnosis. — When the previous medical history is known there is usually little difficulty in correctly estimating the symptoms of the acute form of unemia. Changes in the urine, both in volume and in specific gravity, may have sounded a warning note, or attention may have been attracted by various premonitory symptoms, and the urjemic manifestations may have been anticipated. The chief difficulty arises in patients found convulsed, or comatose, and brought under medical notice without any definite history. Suspicion may be aroused by an ammoniacal odour of the breath, though this sign is frequently masked by the smell of alcohol, taken previous to the attack or adminis- tered with good intent by some bystander. The presence of dropsy, even slight in amount, would be a valuable indication, while high tension of the pulse, outward displacement of the apex beat, and accentuation or reduplication of the sounds of the heart, would favour the diagnosis of ursemia in a convulsed or comatose patient. If urine withdrawn by a catheter is found to be albuminous and to contain casts, the hypothesis of ursemia is further strengthened. Many of these indications may, however, be present with grave cerebral lesions, with which renal changes may be directly associated. Cere- bral haemorrhage, for example, often results from arterio-sclerosis, a sequel of renal cirrhosis, and when the sudden unconsciousness is accom- panied by convulsions the diagnosis may be very difficult. Although uraemic convulsions may be unilateral, or at least more marked upon one side, as in hemiplegia, the recognition of distinct paralytic symptoms generally points to haemorrhage rather than to uraemia. Con- vulsions and coma may also be due to various forms of cerebral tumour, or of meningitis, particularly tuberculous, which may occur inde- pendently in patients already affected by chronic renal trouble. Alterations of temperature afford very little help to the diagnosis ; in meningitis the chart is not characteristic, in apoplexy the temperature may be normal or subnormal, though usually high in basal ha3morrhage, while in uraemia the occurrence of a high temperature is quite exceptional. Help may be afforded by an ophthalmoscopic examination, which may disclose characteristic white patches or flame- shaped haemorrhages when acute uraemia occurs with chronic renal changes, while in many cases of meningitis and of cerebral tumour optic neuritis and other equally marked deviations from the normal may be recognised. The convulsive seizures of uraemia may at first be mistaken for hysteria or epilepsy, but an examination of the urine and the recognition of injury of the tongue should leave no room for doubt. The coma of uraemia may be mistaken for that due to alcohol, to opium, or to diabetes. With alcoholic coma the pupils are generally dilated, while they are contracted in opium- poisoning. In diabetes the pupils afford no help, and the examination with the ophthalmo- scope may reveal changes very similar to those in chronic nephritis. The examination of the urine, of the pulse, and of the heart may serve to indicate the true cause. Reference has already been made to the difficulty of dealing with the cases of prolonged partial coma, with dry, furred tongue, in which there is marked resemblance to the late symptoms of typhoid fever. The diagnosis of chronic uraemia may give even greater trouble than that of acute, and may only be reached when symptomatic treat- ment has proved unavailing. The nervous symptoms—headache, neuralgia, and languor— are characterised by being peculiarly persistent