VAGINA, DISORDERS OF THE 409 portion of the wall must be excised and the remains of the cyst treated by curetting, by the actual cautery, or by some strong caustic such as Liquor ferri perchlor. Where the lining of the cyst is not destroyed, a small depression secreting mucus may persist after operation. Myoma and Fibroma.—Myoma and fibroma are rarely found in the vagina; they originate from the fibro-muscular wall. They form round tumours, seldom larger than an apple, and are embedded in or attached by a pedicle to the surface of the vaginal wall. The surface of the tumour may be smooth or lobulated, and is covered by intact mucous membrane. The consistence is usually hard like that of a uterine fibroid, but may be soft and fluctuating where oedema or cysts are present. The tumour is, as a rule, sharply marked oiT from the surround- ing tissues, but sometimes spreads diffusely into them. The anterior wall of the vagina is much more commonly affected than the other walls; occasionally more than one tumour may be present. The treatment consists in making an incision over the tumour and enucleating it; the bed of the tumour is then either brought together by series of buried sutures, or partially closed and drained ; where the tumour has be- come pedunculated it is removed after division of its pedicle. Sarcoma of the Vagina. — Sarcoma of the vagina presents marked differences according as it is met with in childhood or in adult life. In infancy it occurs as a polypoid tumour affecting, in the great majority of cases, the anterior wall. In its early stage it occurs as a more or less pedunculated growth, which, as a rule, first attracts attention by protruding into the vulva. As the tumour grows it forms a mass having numerous projections from the surface, which lend to it an appearance somewhat resembling that of a bunch of grapes or berries. As the disease progresses, the cervix and bladder tend early to become involved, and later the vulva and the inguinal glands ; the uterine body and the broad ligaments frequently are implicated; the rectum never is invaded. In the later stages of the disease ulceration may take place, and lead to infection and the death of the patient; pyometra and purulent peritonitis have been several times observed. In other cases the tumour may cause death by pressing on the urethra, and setting up dilatation followed by infection of the bladder, ureters, and kidneys. Remote metastases do not appear to be common ; in one case, however, the left ovary was found enlarged to the size of an orange. Microscopically, the timiour is a sarcoma com- posed of round and spindle-cells with some giant-cells; a varying quantity of connective tissue and some smooth muscular fibres are generally present; striated muscular fibres have been observed in many cases. The first symptom frequently is the appear- ance of the tumour at the vulva; sometimes, however, this is preceded by pain in the pelvic region, which may be attended by bleeding, troubles of micturition, and, not unfrequently, difficulty in defeecation. The duration of the disease varies; in the longest case hitherto observed the child died at six years of age. As a rule, the diagnosis is made too late for radical treatment, but in two cases excision has been performed with good results; in one of these two cases the lower half of the posterior wall of the vagina was re- moved, and in the other the whole vagina and uterus were extirpated through a parasacral incision. In the adult, sarcoma has been observed at all ages up to eighty-two. The tumour may be chiefly composed of round or of spindle-cells with, not unfrequently, giant-cells, and fre- quently mucoid tissue. The disease usually appears as a circumscribed tumour, which may be situated in any part of the wall of the vagina. Occasionally the mass is polypoid; rarely it forms an annular constriction or even a difi'use growth which may narrow a large part of the vaginal lumen. The tumour may be entirely inside the vagina, or may present in the vulva. The symptoms, in addition to the presence of the tumour, are bleeding, discharge, and symptoms of pressure on the pelvic organs. The treat- ment consists in early and wide excision. Carcinoma of the Vagina.—Carcinoma of the vagina may be secondary to disease of the cervix or body of the uterus, or to disease of the bladder or of the rectum. The vaginal affection may be due to direct extension of the growth, to contact infection, or to metastases through the lymphatics. Much less commonly, carcinoma of the vagina is met with as a primary affection, and then it begins, as a rule, in the upper third of the posterior wall, close below the insertion of the cervix. The common variety of carcinoma met with is a squamous epithelioma. The disease usually forms a circumscribed tumour, only slightly raised above the surround- ing surface, and when first recognised is almost always already ulcerating and breaking down on the surface, so as to form an irregular ulcer with hard infiltrated base and sharply defined margins ; the floor of the ulcer frequently shows fine papillary outgrowths of small roundish elevations. In the neighbourhood of the ulcer the mucous membrane is usually macerated by the discharges from the ulcer flowing over it, and shows signs of catarrhal inflammation with superficial erosions which easily bleed. Occa- sionally, in the immediate neighbourhood of the ulcer there is thickening of the epithelium forming white, opaque, shining patches, which apparently represent a precancerous stage of the affection. Sometimes the proportion of new- growth to ulceration is greater, and the tumour may then form a mushroom-shaped projection