URETHRA, DISEASES OF 261 distension, and a catheter may be passed after a few days' interval. The use of hot fomenta- tions to the perinseum will often be a useful dressing, as it tends to promote the flow of urine. Suprapubic drainage of the bladder may be performed if it is really necessary, the drain- age being maintained for about ten days until a catheter can be passed through the urethra. The prognosis of ruptured urethra, even in its slighter forms, is extremely bad, for the laceration nearly always leads to a most intract- able and deeply seated stricture, which makes it necessary for the patient to maintain instru- mental dilatation for many years, or even during the rest of his life. Prolapse of the Urethra.—Prolapse of the urethra is not uncommon in little girls as a result of general weakness, local irritation at the neck of the bladder and repeated straining due to a chronic cough or habitual constipation. It is occasionally met with in elderly women associated with senile changes and laxity of the genital passages, and it is seen as a rare accident in healthy women during middle life. The pro- lapse is generally chronic, but it may be acute. The symptoms are increased frequency of micturition, with scalding, and the passage of a little blood. Examination of the vulva shows the presence of a red mass which may be furrowed longitudinally, and presents a central depression forming the orifice of the urethra. The prolapse may be mistaken for a nsevus, polypus, or urethral caruncle. Treatment.—Simple replacement is often suffi- cient to cure the prolapse, especially if the parts be regularly washed with cold water. The occasional application of solid nitrate of silver to the mucous membrane causes sufficient con- striction to prevent recurrence in many of the chronic cases. Satisfactory results are also obtained by drawing forwards the prolapsed and oedematous mucous membrane, and then snipping it off". Tumours of the Urethra. — The innocent tumours of the urethra are neither common nor important, and the primary malignant growths are very rare in both sexes. The simplest innocent tumours are found by the urethro- scope in the male urethra. They are simply masses of granulation tissue in the neighbour- hood of strictures, or associated with chronic inflammations of the urethra. Small polypi are found in the prostatic portion of the urethra independently of any urethral inflammation, and occasionally a villous tumour makes its presence known by hsemorrhage when it is found in the penile portion of the urethra near the meatus. I have seen from time to time a peduncxilated fibrous tumour growing from the lips of the meatus. A urethral caruncle is the best known urethral tumour growing in the female. It is very vascular, is painful when it becomes inflamed. and it often causes increased frequency of micturition. The treatment consists in dissect- ing it out, for mere ligature and snipping off is useless, as it quickly grows again. Malignant tumours of the urethra are much rarer than innocent growths. The carcinomata are primary or secondary. Primary cancers in men occur in two forms. A squamous epitheli- oma growing in old men; it springs from the urethra often at a considerable distance from the meatus, and is to be clearly distinguished from the comparatively common cancer of the penis. A more rare villous carcinoma of the urethra which occurs in younger men, the growth having a histological structure not un- like that of a "duct cancer" of the female breast. This form of tumour spreads rapidly as a destructive papilloma of the penis. Secon- dary carcinomata involve the urethra by exten- sion from the bladder, prostate, and penis in men : from the uterus and vulva in women. Sarcoma of the urethra occurs in girls and women. It is part of a general sarcomatous growth aff'ecting all the connective tissues, which are involved in the complicated develop- mental processes associated with the formation of the cloaca. The growth is polypoid in char- acter, and has a greater tendency to ulcerate in the adult than in the child. The prognosis is more favourable in later than in early life, for the growth can be removed more completely in women than in children. Calculi.—The first and only symptom of stone in a child may be the acute retention of urine due to its impaction in the urethra, but in adults there is usually evidence of a calculus before it becomes impacted, and the symptoms are much less acute, whilst the retention may be very incomplete. In adults, too, a stone which has thus become lodged in the urethra, especially if it lies in the prostatic portion, may gradually increase in size until it takes the shape of the urethra for an inch or more. Calculi which have been retained in the urethra in this manner for long periods of time are often multiple. In some cases a calculus may become lodged behind a stricture, and may receive suc- cessive incrustations of phosphates from the ammoniacal urine passing over it until it attains a considerable size. The presence of such a calculus increases the tendency to ulceration and pouching of the urethra behind the stric- ture, and is often associated with extravasation of urine or a urinary abscess. The diagnosis of a urethral calculus is not attended with any great difficulty. It can be felt when it lies in the penile portion of the canal, whilst the passage of a sound will usually demonstrate its presence when it is situated nearer the bladder. Ti-eatment.—When the stone lies near the meatus and is of a regular shape it can be re- moved by means of a pair of urethral forceps, and when it lies farther back the passage of a