TINNITUS AURIUM 28 Given that there is a defect of hearing and the noise is simple, the tinnitus is due to disease of the organ of hearing. Should the simple noise be pulsating in character, and if it can be checked by compression of the carotid artery in the neck, it is due to arterial congestion of the external or middle ear, but if by compression of the vertebral arteries in the suboccipital triangles it is then due to arterial congestion of the internal ear, which it is to be remembered is often of nervous or vaso-motor origin. The tinnitus produced by quinine and salicylates is probably of this nature. It may arise, however, from any cause which increases the arterial tension, notably, more particularly chronic cirrhotic disease of the kidney and vascular disturbance associated with the menopause. Should the pulsating murmur be readily heard on auscultation of the cranium or ear, search must be made for the other signs of intracranial aneurysm. Should the noise be not pulsating, a high- pitched hissing or singing sound is probably due to increased tension of the tympanic structures, leading to pressure on the labyrinth, or, on the other hand, it may arise from disease of the labyrinth itself. In the former case the tuning-fork tests, probable alleviation on in- flation, and the examination of the tympanum will enable us to make a diagnosis. In the latter case the diminution of bone conduction will, among other tuning-fork tests, enable us to decide that the disease is situated in the internal ear. A low-pitched, dull, rumbling, buzzing, or rushing noise, made worse by lying down, the ingestion of food or stimulants, or constipation, indicates venous congestion. On the other hand, if it is relieved by lying down, by taking food or stimulants, and accompanied by pallor, it is due to anfemia. It may be noted that the inhalation of nitrite of arayl increases tinnitus when congestive, but diminishes it when ansemic. If, along with dulness of hearing, the tinnitus is of an elaborated character, such as melodies, or, still more, voices of people talk- ing, the patient may be said to be suffering from auditory illusions, the elaborated character being due to the misinterpretation of the simple sounds induced by the aural disease. Instead of being defective the hearing-power in some cases is abnormally acvite, owing to in- creased excitability of the auditory nerve or centres, usually associated with neurasthenic conditions. This peculiarity is often over- looked, and the sounds of which the patient is conscious are usually those produced by the circulation and other movements in the struc- tures surrounding the auditory organs. There remain a certain number of cases in which the tinnitus is unaccompanied by any abnormality of hearing (tinnitus nervosa), and is therefore not attributable to disease of the ear itself, but to some disturbing agent irritat- ing the central auditory nervous structures, and which may be in the form of gross lesions such as new growths, or of the more minute changes in the brain which give rise to mental disease. The tinnitus may be either simple or elaborate in character, the latter being the auditory hallucinations usually associated with insanity. The "/Eolian harp" sounds have been found to depend on the irritation of the tympanic membrane by one of the hairs of the external meatus. Treatment of Tinnittis Aurium.—It has been shown that in most cases this symptom is due to disease of the auditory apparatus, and the treatment to be selected is in the first instance that suitable for whatever auditory disease may be present. The external auditory meatus will have to be freed from masses of cerumen or desquamated epidermis. An indrawn mem- brane and narrowed Eustachian tube indicate the necessity for restoring the ventilation of the tympanum by inflation or dilatation of the tube, and the freeing of the naso-pharyngeal and nasal passages. In acute inflammatory con- ditions with arterial congestion of the middle or external ear, depletion by means of leeches on the tragus or incisions into the turbinated bodies may be called for, while derivation to the intestines and the administration of such a sedative as bromide of potassium in full doses is carried out. If the various tests indicate that the exciting cause is situated in the internal ear, we vary our treatment according as it is congestive or ansemic in character. In the former case we should in general administer bromide of potassium, and deplete through the intestines by means of calomel or salines or hydrobromic acid. Pilocarpine is also useful in these cases, having apparently the power of diminishing congestion of the internal ear. If the tinnitus is due to the administration of such drugs as quinine and salicylates, they must be at once withheld. Attention should be particu- larly paid to the condition of the kidneys and heart, and improvement will sometimes follow the limitation of the diet to milk and fish, with the avoidance of animal food, at all events in any great quantity. Temporary relief may often be obtained by compression of the verte- brals in the suboccipital region by means of the fingers or of two conical pads placed in the hol- lows already described, and kept in position by a strap going round the forehead. In tinnitus due to venous congestion any conditions leading to pressure on the veins or difficulty in the return of blood to the right side of the heart should be removed. The excision of enlarged glands in the neck, the reduction of a bronchocele, and the regulation of the cardiac circulation by means of digitalis or strophanthus must be kept in view. In case of auditory illusion, which, as before said, is a misinterpretation of the simple sounds produced by aural or central disturbance.