TYPHUS FEVER 209 observers that the first five years of life show a relatively higher mortality than the subsequent ten, but that is not in accordance with my own experience. The death-rate in persons of under twenty years is almost a negligible quantity, seldom exceeding 3 or 4 per cent. After twenty years have been passed, however, the rate steadily increases, being at least 15 or 20 per cent between the ages of twenty and forty, and nearly 50 per cent when sixty years are passed. As regards sex men are admitted to have a much higher mortality than women. This is no doubt in part due to the greater likelihood that they are alcoholic; but per- sons of spare constitution, even if alcoholic, of both sexes have a much greater chance of recovery than powerful, muscular, and heavy subjects. The question of body-weight is, in my opinion, of considerable importance. A superabundance either of muscle or fat seems distinctly to add to the dangers of the disease. Every one admits that alcoholism lessens the chance of recovery enormously. The class of persons who usually contract typhus is exceed- ingly liable to contain a high proportion of alcoholics, and this undoubtedly accounts for the high mortality common in the fever. Such cases suffer from an exaggeration of all the nervous symptoms that have been described above, and it may be said that in ordinary cases the severity is to be chiefly judged by the prominence of the nervous phenomena. Patients who have suifered from true delirium ferox practically never recover. Much muscular twitching, especially of the face, severe tremor, and intractable insomnia, are all symptoms of most evil omen. Coma must be regarded as a prelude to death. Hyperpyrexia, when it occurs, usually also means a fatal termination. Heart- failure from toxaemia is usually ushered in by a considerable increase in the rate of the pulse. A rate above 120 is to be regarded as a cause for anxiety; above 130, the patient's condition is most serious. Very rapid respirations, show- ing a large amount of congestion, or a possible complicating pneumonia, are also a bad sign. Diarrhoea is usually serious, except that loose- ness of the bowels which so often precedes or accompanies the crisis. Sweating is a particu- larly ugly symptom. It may be said roughly that the severity of the disease may be judged by the amount and character of the eruption. Bad cases nearly always have very profuse, dark, and deeply stained eruptions, and much purpuric haemor- rhage. On the other hand, a scanty or transient eruption is usually found in cases of less gravity. A fall of temperature, very slight but comparatively steady from the com- mencement of the second week towards the time of the true crisis, is of favourable im- port. VOL. X Treatment.—In a disease which runs so definite a course it is hardly to be expected that we are likely to find any general treatment likely to check the course of the fever. We are therefore reduced to treating complications as they arise, while at the same time maintain- ing the strength of the patient to the best of our ability. All agree that typhus cases require a large amount of fresh air. While we are un- aware if any experiment in actual open-air treatment has yet been attempted, there can be hardly any doubt that some such method will be eventually adopted. In the meantime it will be found useful to keep the temperature of the ward low, and all windows and doors open to the fullest extent. The patient should not be overburdened with bedclothes, a blanket and sheet being amply sufficient covering. Great comfort is given by the use of frequent tepid sponges, and some go so far as to use baths of cold water, as in typhoid fever, as a systematic treatment; but, as in the other fevers, there is little to be gained by direct attempts to lower the temperature. Still more undesirable is the use of antipyretic drugs with that object. The diet should be light and nourishing. The digestion is practically as weak as it is in typhoid fever, and a milk and beef-tea regimen is to be preferred. To it may be added various meat juices, such as Bovinin, especially valuable when there is diarrhosa and when hot beef-tea is contra-indicated. Benger's food, or other similar preparations, plasmon, and an occasional egg-flip, will be found useful in maintaining the strength. It is absolutely necessary that cold water be supplied in abundance. It assists the elimination of toxines and helps to moisten the mouth and tongue. It should be forced upon the patients, who are often unable to ask for it. I consider five or six pints a desirable quantity in the twenty-four hours, and I have seen patients drink as much as ten pints with great benefit to themselves. As regards the question of stimulants, it is wise to allow all alcoholic cases a little from the first. Most cases require alcohol in their second week, and it may have to be very freely pushed at the time of the crisis. As regards the use of drugs when the pulse is failing, the use of many of them will be found disappointing. Strophanthus is occasionally useful, but often fails to make any impression, and strychnine, which is on the whole more reliable, is too apt to increase the ataxic symp- toms of the patient. It is, above all, important to secure sufficient sleep for the sufferer, and not more than one sleepless night should be allowed before recourse is made to hypnotics. I have had most success with sulphonal in the early stages of the disease, and later on paral- dehyde, given freely. Before drugs are used, however, every device of nursing to induce 14