TYPHOID FEVER 183 from toxsemia of the nerve centimes. Tympanites is usually greatest when diarrhoea is severe (Hare finds the reverse). With subsidence of the disease the tympanites subsides ; but the belly may become retracted when the patient is becoming exhausted (intestinal distension is often simulated by distension of the urinary bladder or of the stomach). The ^^bell sound" may occur over parts of much distended colon. When general over the whole abdomen it indicates perforation of intestine. The iliac fossa is often the seat of discomfort and tenderness, rarely of much pain. Some- times severe pain is felt about the iliac region, indicating deep ulceration, and in many cases points to ulceration of the large intestine (severe pain may occur in the lower part of the belly from retention of urine). Gurgling in the iliac fossa is common, but is not special to enteric fever. Respiratory movements are often noticeably lessened over the lower part of the abdomen on the right side. The bowels may be greatly relaxed, the motions being as many as twenty-four in the twenty-four hours, or there may be constipation throughout. Often they are relaxed at first from the adminis- tration of purgatives, and afterwards constipated, or the reverse may occur. Diarrhoea is cer- tainly much less frequent now than Murchison's estimate some years ago of 95 per cent of cases. Osier found it in 30 per cent of his cases. In the Maidstone epidemic it occurred in half the cases. Hare finds constipation more often than diarrhoea. It appears to vary in different epidemics, and is certainly lessened by early and careful dieting. Murchison doubted any relationship between the amount of diarrhoea and the severity of the intestinal lesion, and certainly constipation may be associated with deep ulceration ; but in general, when intestinal ulceration is slight or absent, diarrhoea is at its minimum, and when there is extensive ulcera- tion there is almost always diarrhoea. The stools are unformed even though there is no diarrhoea. They may be at first dark, but soon become light yellow in colour (occasionally green, like chopped parsley), liquid, and off"ensive. They separate on standing into a deposit of debris of food, epithelium and biliary con- stituents, with a supernatant alkaline and al- buminous clear fluid. The bacillus coli and bacillus of Eberth are found in them. At any time after the first eight or ten days they may contain shreds of larger portions of slough, sometimes with intestinal muscle fibre. Blood may be passed early from congestion around Peyer's patches, or later on from open ulcers {vide Complications). There is a tendency to involuntary passage of faeces, accounted for often by the liquid nature of the stools, and the abdominal distension, together with the mental hebetude; sometimes from complete uncon- sciousness or from paralysis of the sphincter. The spleen may enlarge, sometimes very greatly, rarely sufficiently to ascertain clinically for the fii'st week or so. The outline is some- times easily felt, and in thin children may pro- ject the abdominal wall. It appears to vary in size from time to time, and its percussion dul- ness varies with the distension of the colon. Even when no enlargement can be detected its position is often tender on pressure. It may remain large some time after the temperature has fallen to normal, and it usually enlarges during relapses or exacerbations. Infarcts and abscesses may occur in the spleen {see Complica- tions). The typhoid bacillus is obtainable from the spleen by puncture. Under the name " spleno-typhoid" Eiselt describes cases in which the spleen is the chief organ affected, and intestinal symptoms are absent. In some of these cases the spleen becomes of enormous size, and there is pyrexia of a relapsing type. The pulse is usually quickened from the first, being usually 85 to 100 per minute in males, and 100 to 120 in females (Dreschfeld). Its maximum in 100 cases of Murchison's was 110 to 120. It varies in frequency at different periods of the day, and is readily accelerated by slight causes, mental emotion, etc. Attacks of typhoid occur in which the pulse is slow through- out. As the temperature falls with the sub- sidence of the disease the pulse-rate falls also; but in bad cases, when the fall of temperature is only temporary, the pulse-rate often keeps up. The pulse is usually dicrotic and of low pressure from the first, but this character may be quite lost in late stages. In long lasting cases the pulse tends to get more and more feeble, and running or thready, and its beats become very rapid or uncountable (150 or 160 per minute). When hsemorrhage is about to occur it usually gets rapid, short, and irritable. In late stages the pulse is apt to become irregular or intermittent, especially in children, and during convalescence it may become very slow, as is the case in other exanthemata, and influenza. In some cases of typhoid the pulse is very feeble from the first, and there is blueness of finger ends. There is nothing peculiar to typhoid in the character of the heart sounds. They tend to become weak as the heart progresses, and, it being a long lasting fevei', with many conditions contributing to toxfemia and to drains on the tissues of the body, the action and sounds of the heart may become extremely weak; but typhoid mostly affects persons who are young and in whom the heart has reserve force enough to carry them through the longest and most severe illness. Syncopal attacks, even fatal, may occur