YELLOW FEVER 599 In all but the mildest cases resort should be had to bichloride of mercury, in combination with bicarbonate of soda, as suggested by Sternberg. His formula is : bichloride of mer- cury, ^ of a grain ; bicarbonate of soda, 150 grains ; water, 1 quart. Three table-spoonfuls are to be taken every hour ice-cold. This remedy has been found to allay gastric irritability and increase the urinary secretion. Under this treatment 374 cases treated by different phy- sicians in the United States, Cuba, and Brazil, the mortality was 7'3 per cent. These results justify its use in all serious forms of the disease. While this treatment is being employed two symptomatic indications must be steadily carried out, viz. to favour the elimination of toxins by the kidney and to moderate the fever. The issue of a case, so far as it is determined by treatment, will depend upon our success in meeting these indications. The patient should be encouraged to drink freely of some mildly alkaline water. To those who can afford and pi'ocure it, from two to four litres of Vichy water should be administered daily. Aerated water, with the addition of 60 grains of bicarbonate of soda per litre, will answer if Vichy water cannot be had. The water should be given in small doses, say half an ounce to an ounce every quarter of an hour, either at the ordinary temperature of the room or ice-cold, as may be best supported by the patient. Should the water be rejected, cold diluent enemata may be administered. The amount injected at a time should not exceed what can be retained and absorbed, and the injections should be repeated every two or three hours. As soon as the patient's stomach can bear it, the alkaline drinks are to be resumed. The object is to promote the action of the kidneys and prevent the accumulation of toxins in the system. In severe cases, where the stomach cannot tolerate liquids, the subcut- aneous injection of 200 to 300 c.c. of a sterilised solution of common salt (2J drs. in 40 oz. water) may be of service. When the temperature is under 102° F. the whole body—the back as well as the front of the trunk — and the limbs should be succes- sively washed every two or three hours with a large towel wrung out of water at a temperature 80* to 85° F., a little higher or lower according to the sensations of the patient. When the temperat>ire reaches 103° and the skin is dry, ice should be added to the water to bring it to 60° or 70° F., and the washings repeated every hour. The higher the temperature the more ice is to be added to the water. That part of the body only which is being washed should be exposed. It should then be thoroughly dried and covered, and another part treated in the same way. When the skin is perspiring, cold sponging should be avoided, and, indeed, in this case is not needed. When there is much heat and congestion of the head an ice-bag should be applied. These cold washings of the skin are agreeable to the patient; they moderate the temperature, increase the urine, and allay gastric irritability. When the temperature exceeds 104° F., and the measures recommended fail to control it, resort is to be had to the cold bath. The patient is placed in a bath at 85° or 90° F., which is to be reduced to 80° or 70° F., or lower, so as to reduce the temperature of the body by two degrees at least. Fifteen minutes will usually be sufficient to effect this, and the ordinary precautions to prevent collapse taken. In adynamic cases the warm bath or hot packs should be used. In cases marked by collapse, the application of heat and friction to the extremities and subcutaneous injections of ether are called for. If the heart's action is feeble and irregular, digitalis in small doses along with stimulants should be tried. Vomiting is one of the most distressing- symptoms of the disease. The treatment already recommended, if systematically carried out, will do much to control it. Sinapisms over the epigastrium, a few drops of chloroform given at frequent intervals, drop doses of creasote, an ice-bag over the pit of the stomach, are the remedies most commonly employed. They are all occasionally useful ; more frequently they all fail. In hiemorrhagic cases little good can be expected from medicines. It was thought that the perchloride of iron in full doses was of some service in the Lisbon epidemy. Some recom- mend ergot hypodermically in these cases, but it is seldom of any service. It was in this form that King and Laird found advantage from the use of oil of turpentine in doses of 20 minims, in camphorated water, three times a day, a little spirits of nitrous ether being added if strangury occurred. Diet.—During the first two or three days no food whatever, liquid or solid, should be given. When the fever has subsided and gastric irritability has disappeared, milk in small quantities, alone or mixed with lime water, should be given cautiously. As convalescence progresses, chicken broth, or beef tea, and light farinaceous foods should be allowed. For some weeks after recovery the strictest regulation of the diet and habits of life should be insisted on to obviate the risk of relapse. Yellow Ja.Ck. See Yellow Fever. Yellow Lotion. ^See Yellow Wash. ''Yellows."—-Jaundice, especially in veterinary medicine. Yellow Spot.—The macula lutea. See Retina and Optic Nerve {Retina, Ophthal- moscopic Appearances).