427 VEINS, DISEASES OF tinguished by being removed by the application of heat. Entrance of Air into Veins The explanation of this occurrence is found in one of the factors already mentioned as bringing about the venous flow, namely, the aspirating effect of the heart and of respiratory movements. The thoracic cavity being a closed chamber, increase of the size results in the aspiration into it of air, or of blood into the great veins leading to the heart, and therefore at every respiratory movement the thorax acts as a pumping mechanism, drawing in and ex- pelling blood as well as air. This effect is propagated along the gi-eat veins of the neck. To resist this tendency, we find that the veins of the neck are, as a rule, surrounded by strong fibrous sheaths attached to adjacent structures, so that the vein does not collapse, as it would do were the wall not supported, and an arrangement of this kind is found even so far from the heart as in the axillary vein. In pathological conditions, further, a vein may be embedded in dense fibrous tissue, may be adherent to adjacent structures, or the wall may be infiltrated and rendered firm. Lastly, undue traction upon tissues during the course of a sui-gical operation may prevent a vein collapsing. In any of these conditions, should the wall of the vein be opened, air is aspirated into the vein. The accident is especially liable to happen if a small piece has been cut out of a vein, e.g. in removing an adherent gland, or if the wall is only partially divided. Practically, the accident is most liable to happen during the course of operations about the root of the neck or the axilla, when the tissues are matted from chronic inflammation or from tumour growth, and when a slight wound is made in the side of a large vein, or if a tribu- tary vein be divided close to its termination in the main vessel. The accident has occurred, however, even in the facial, subscapular, femoral, and uterine veins. The signs and symptoms are a gentle hissing or sucking sound, intermittent in character, and the presence of some frothy blood in the wound, together with an immediate and serious inter- ference with the patient's circulation and respiration, evidenced by sudden pallor, deep and sighing respiration, and rapid, flickering pulse, with violent and turbulent cardiac move- ments. These effects are due to two causes : first, the cardiac muscle is deprived of its usual stimulus, viz. an incompressible fluid, in place of which it has only a mixture of air and fluid in which to act; and, secondly, to impairment of the natural action of the cardiac valves, which are only suited to act in a fluid medium, and are useless in air or froth. The pulmonary circulation is arrested, and the patient may die rapidly and suddenly, or may gradually recover, if the quantity of air that has entered is only small. Treatment.—The treatment must be im- mediate, and, first of all, the entrance of further air be prevented, either by pressure with the finger or swab upon the aperture, or by flooding the wound with some non-irritating and non- poisonous fluid, such as warm saline solution. It is doubtful if anything can be done to get rid of the air in the heart, but violent expiratory movements sometimes eject it, and the expira- tory movements may be assisted once very rapidly. To prevent cerebral syncope the head should be lowered, and the main arteries of the limbs compressed, or even the abdominal aorta, so as to divert the arterial blood to the brain as much as possible. At the same time stimulants should be administered, such as ether sub- cutaneously, brandy by the rectum, hot cloths to the prsecordia. It has been suggested to aspirate the right auricle by a hollow needle and an aspirating syringe, but this is a dernier ressort of a desperate character. Vela,mentOUS.—Membranous, like a membrane (Lat. velamen, a covering), e.g. vela- mentous insertion of the umbilical cord (attach- ment of the cord to the membranes outside the placenta). See Pregnancy, Diseases of Pla- centa AND Cord (Anomalies of Placenta). Veldt Fever.—A form of febricula or ephemeral fever. Veldt Sore. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics ( Veldt or Natal Sores). Vella's Fistula. — A loop of bowel separated from the rest of the intestine and stitched by its ends to the abdominal wall; it is used experimentally to collect the intestinal secretion for examination. Velpeau'S Hernia.—Femoral hernia in front of the vessels. Velum.—A veil or sheet of tissue re- sembling a veil; e.g. the velum interpositum of the third ventricle of the brain, the velum palati (soft palate), and the velum pupillcB (pupillary membrane). See Meninges of the Cerebrum {Anatomy and Physiology, Pia Mater); Palate [Diseases). Vena.—A vein ; e.g. the vena cava, vena portce, etc. Venereal Disease. Introduction . . . . . . 428 History 428