108 TRICHINA Trichina,.—A genus of the Nematode worms, of which Trichina spiralis is one of the species. See Parasites {Nematodes, Tricho- trachelidoe): see also Filariasis {Filaria Ban- crofti or Trichina Cystica); Food {Character- istics of Unsoundness, Trichina Spiralis); Muscles, Diseases op the {Trichiniasis); Toxi- cology {Animal Foods, Trichiniasis). Trichiniasis or Trichinosis.— The morbid condition due to the presence of the Trichina spiralis. See Parasites {Nematodes) ; Trichina and Cross References. Tricho-.—In compound words tricho- (Gr. Opi^, a hair) means relating to the hair or resembling a hair; e.g. trichomatosis (a matted condition of the hair, plica), trichomonas (a flagellate infusorium which lives in the vaginal mucus {T. vaginalis) or in the intestines {cercomonas hominis). TrichOCephaiuS.—A parasitic Nema- tode worm belonging to the Trichotrachelidee; the morbid state due to its presence is named trichocephaliasis. See Parasites {Neinatodes). TrichogfiOSS ia. — Hairy tongue, a morbid state in which the enlarged papillae give the tongue a hairy appearance. Trichophyton.—A parasitic organism or fungus found on the hair, e.g. the Tricho- phyton tonsurans of ringworm. See Alopecia {Varieties); Skin, Parasites {Tinea Tonsurans); Suppuration {Etiology, Micro-organisms in Pus), Trichophytosis.—The morbid state due to the presence of the trichophyton {q.v.). Trichorrhexis Nodosa.—A brittle condition of the hair which shows irregular thickenings or " nodes" on the shafts. See Skin, Bacteriology of {Trichorrhexis Nodosa). Trichotracheiidse. See Parasites {Nematodes). Trichromic Vision. See Colour Vision {Theories of Colour Perception). Trichterbrust.—The funnel chest or thorax due to depression of the lower part of the sternum, seen in tuberculosis, adenoids, etc., or as a congenital malformation; sternal cyphosis. Tricornis.—Having three horns or pro- cesses, e.g. the lateral ventricles of the brain. Tricresol.—A mixture of the three cresols (ortho-, meta-, and paracresol), specially purified ; is an efficient antiseptic. Tricrotic.—Possessing three wavelets or crests in each beat of the pulse as seen in a sphygmographic tracing. See Physiology, Circulation {Form of the Wave). The pulse which has this character is said to show tricrot- ism. Tricuspid.—Having three cusps or seg- ments, e.g. the right auriculo-ventricular valves of the heart. See Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Valvtdar Affections, Tricuspid Valves). TriencephaiUS.—Saint-Hilaire's term for the monstrosity more commonly known as aprosopus, in which the three parts, mouth, nose, and eyes, are all absent. Triethyiamine.—A ptomaine (CgH^^N) obtained from putrid haddock. Trifacial or Trigeminal.— The name given to the fifth cranial nerve on account of its three branches (ophthalmic, superior maxillary, and inferior maxillary). See Fifth Nerve, Applications of ; Nerves, Neuralgia {Symptoms). The term trigeminal is also ap- plied to the pulse in which the full systole is followed by two premature systoles. See Pulse {Bigeminal Pulse and its Modifications). Trigger Finger.—A morbid condition in which extension or flexion of a finger is at first impeded and then takes place with a jerk. Trigone.—A triangular space, e.g. the trigone of the bladder, which lies behind the internal orifice of the urethra and between the orifices of the ureters and has a smooth surface. TrigonOCephalUS. — A teratological type in which the head of the foetus has a triangular shape. (Gr. rpl-, thrice ; and yavia, a corner or angle). Tri Mat's Autoclave.—An apparatus for carrying out gaseous disinfection; formic aldehyde may thus be employed for fumigation, formalin being heated with calcium chloride. TrilOCUlar.—Having three chambers or loculi, e.g. the trilocular heart which results when the interauricular septum is incompletely closed. Trimethylamine.—A ptomaine ob- tained from herring-brine and other decompos- ing substances. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Decomposing Fish). Trinitrln.—Glonoin oil, Nobel's blasting oil, or nitroglycerine. See Nitrites {Nitro- glycerine). TriOCephaluS. — A teratological type, being a variety of otocephaly in which the cranium is reduced to the occipital bone, the petrous temporals, and a rudimentary parietal; there is no mouth, no eye, and no nasal pro- boscis, the external ears are closely approxi- mated or united, and the brain is reduced to the medulla with or without the pons.