URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 298 D line which such sediments show when ex- amined with the spectroscope by reflected light, suflice for the recognition of its presence. When in solution in large amount it imparts to the urine a fiery orange colour, and on the addi- tion of caustic potash the colour becomes much paler and shows a greenish tint. From such urine, slightly acidified with acetic acid, the pig- ment is readily taken up by amylic alcohol, to which it gives a similar colour, and before the spectroscope the feeble complex band in the green, characteristic of this pigment, may usually be recognised, together with the absorption bands of hsematoporphyrin and of urobilin. Indeed this method, suggested by Riva and Zoja, affords the readiest means of detecting the presence of all three pigments when they are present in more than minute traces. Hmmatoporphyrinuria forms the subject of a special article, and it is here only necessary to repeat that hsematoporphyrin occasionally ap- pears in greatly increased quantity, together with other little known abnormal pigments, in the urine of patients who have been treated with sulphonal or allied drugs, and much more rarely apart from this cause. Such urines have a deep port-wine colour. In morbid urines there is often much more than the normal trace of this pigment, but not enough to appreciably affect the colour. Such increase can in most instances be traced to dis- orders of the liver, functional or organic, and even in rheumatic fever it is not improbably due to a secondary affection of that organ. The evidence forthcoming all tends to show that an increased excretion of hsematoporphyrin affords no evidence of excessive hsemolysis, but rather of a perverted metabolism of the blood pigment. Hsematoporphyrin is also found in traces in normal bile and fseces and in larger amount in the meconium of new-born infants. Melanuria.—Patients who are the subjects of melanotic growths occasionally pass urine which is of natural colour when freshly passed, but which soon darkens on exposure to air and in time becomes quite black. More rarely the urine is very dark in colour even when passed. This condition is readily distinguished from others in which the urine turns brown or black by certain characteristic tests which are of easy clinical application. Thus the blackness is promptly developed when nitric acid is added to the urine, and an intense blackening is also observed on the addition of ferric chloride. Lastly, bromine water yields a copious precipi- tate which quickly takes a chocolate hue, but this reaction is less delicate than those above mentioned, and may fail when the melanogen is scanty in amount. Such urines also usually yield Thormalen's reaction, namely, a deep blue colour, with sodium nitroprusside, potassium hydrate, and acetic acid, but this is apparently due to some other constituent than the melanogen present. The chromogen, melanogen, has not yet been isolated, but the formed pigment, which has been studied by Morner, appears to be of the same nature as that of melanotic growths. It is often stated that melanuria is not con- fined to cases of melanotic growths, but may also occur in connection with other forms of malignant tumour, and in wasting diseases. When, however, the accounts of the cases on which this statement is based are referred to, the evidence of true melanuria is found to be by no means conclusive, and some of them at least appear to have been examples of the very dark brown urine which accompanies a large excre- tion of indican. There is, indeed, good reason to believe that true melanuria is only met with in cases of melanotic sarcoma, and even in such cases it is not always present. I have never met with it in cases in which the growth was still limited to its pi'imary seat, but only when the liver and other organs have become secon- darily involved. Even in such cases the amount of melanogen present may be small, and the darkening of the urine may fail to attract at- tention. The diagnostic value of this symptom is con- siderably impaired by the fact that in most cases before melanuria develops the patient is well known to be suffering from a melanotic growth. XIV. Bile-Pigment and Acids The bile-pigment may find its way into the urine in two distinct ways. In almost every instance its presence is one of the phenomena of jaundice, and is associated with coloration of the skin and conjunctivse. Very rarely it results from the existence of a fistulous opening con- necting the biliary and urinary passages, and in some such cases the presence of bile in the urine has been associated with the passage of gall- stones per urethram. Seeing that such choluria is as a rule unattended by jaundice, it affords valuable evidence of the existence of a fistulous communication. The colour of the urine suggests the presence of bile-pigment, which in freshly-passed urine usually has the form of bilirubin, but biliverdin and other derivations are apt to be formed when the urine stands in contact with air. Of the tests employed for the detection of bile-pigment three only need be mentioned here. Marechal's test is carried out by allowing a dilute tincture of iodine to run on to the surface of the urine in a test-tube. When bilirubin is present a green ring appears at the junction of the liquids owing to its oxidation to biliverdin. Gmelin's test is best performed by allowing the urine to flow on to the surface of some nitric acid in a test-tube. A coloured ring forms at the junction, and when the tube is gently shaken, so as to bring about some admixture of the liquids, the characteristic play of colours is