VISCEKAL PAIN 474 bladder, uterus. In the heart a pain of a similar character may occur, but there is no reason to suppose that the muscle remains spasmodically contracted, seeing that there may be no interference with the rhythm of its con- traction. In other instances the pain may not have this definite wavy character. The con- traction of the tube may continue for a long period, and pain of the most intense character may persist for hours. Or the contraction may be less severe and the pain less intense. There is a tendency for organs that are single to have the pain referred to the middle line, though it may radiate to one side. Thus the cramp-like pains due to severe peristalsis of the bowel are almost invariably situated across the middle line. So also are the uterine pains due to contraction of the bladder. The pain of the stomach is also most often felt in the middle line, but generally radiates to the left, while the pain in gall-stone colic, also frequently situated in the first instance in the centre, radiates generally round the right side of the body. The pain due to renal calculus is always one-sided. The pain from the heart is often felt across the breast bone, but usually radiates towards the left side. The Digestive Tube.—Itcannotbedemonstrated in all cases what it is that actually causes the pain in affections of the digestive tube, but in a great many cases it can be reasonably inferred that strong peristaltic contraction of the muscle is the exciting cause. Thus, if we study the symptoms of obstruction of the bowel, it will be found that the portion of intestine above the obstructed point is at times thrown into strong peristaltic contractions, and at the same time severe pain is felt. If the situation of the pain be noted, it will be found to bear a distinct relationship to the piece of bowel in which the increased peristalsis occurs. Thus the spasm of the muscular wall of the stomach causes pain to be felt in the epigastrium, spasm of the small intestine about its middle causes pain in the umbilical region, and spasm of the lower end of the great bowel causes pain above the pubis. Pain felt in places between these points would indicate peristalsis of a portion of bowel higher or lower than those parts men- tioned, according as the site of pain is higher or lower in the abdomen. Apart from cases of obstruction, one finds evidence of the truth of this view in cases of severe abdominal pain, when the contents of the bowel set up violent peristalsis. Thus the pain may be felt higher than the umbilical region. A desire to have the bowels relieved may be felt by the patient, but no relief is obtained. The pain continues, but gradually descends, is felt in the umbilical region, then gradually lower, till it is felt above the pubis, when the necessity for relief becomes at once urgent, and with relief of the bowels the pain ceases. Here it is evident that the peristalsis has been driving the contents of the bowel lower down, and as parts of the bowel passed into violent peristalsis the pain was felt lower in the abdomen. While the above statement holds true for the digestive tract as a whole, it also holds true for more limited portions. Thus, if the situa- tion of pain in gastric ulcer be studied, an idea can be formed of the site of the ulcer. In the majority of cases of gastric ulcer there is a localised pain referred to the middle line in the FlO. 5.— The shaded area shows the site of pain ; X corre- sponds to the position of the ulcer. Fio. 6.—The shaded area shows the site of pain ; X corre- sponds to the position of the ulcer. epigastrium. The patient can often put the finger on a certain spot and say with decision that here the pain is most intense. There is often found at the same time a limited area of hypersesthesia. If the situation of this pain be high up in the epigastrium, as in the dotted area in Fig. 5, the site of the ulcer will be near the cardiac orifice of the stomach. The X marks the position of the ulcer in relation to the external body wall in one particular case. If the site of pain be felt in the middle of the epigastrium, as in the dotted area of Fig. 6, the ulcer will be found near the middle of the stomach. Fig. 6 is from a patient who had a ruptured gastric ulcer, and the site of the ulcer was reasoned out from the position of the pain previous to the rup- ture. The patient was no. 7.—The shaded area operated upon within *J^,VoceS'b^ fifteen hours of the rup- the ulcer at the pyloric , J.V. _ c orifice of the stomach, ture; the perforation was found in the middle of the stomach on the lesser curvature, was sewn up, and resulted in a good recovery. I mention this, as the knowledge of where to look saved the risk of blindly exploring, whereby the contents of the stomach might be squeezed out of the perforation. When the site of pain is low in the epigastrium, as in the dotted area of Fig. 7, the ulcer will then be at the pyloric orifice of the stomach. The above reasoning may not be absolute, nevertheless I have found it invariable in over a dozen cases, where the position of the ulcer has been verified by post- mortem examination or by operation. It occa-