UNDULANT FEVER 234 On solid media the colonies appear as minute, circular, clear growths, like little drops of sweat coming out on the surface of the medium ; in four to five days these drops assume a pale amber colour, and later on become somewhat opaque, though even in quite old growths there is still a considerable amount of translucency. No liquefaction of media or formation of gas occurs. The optimum temperature for this organism is 37° C. to 38° C, but it will grow well at any temperature between 20° and 40° C. This micrococcxis will retain its vitality after a con- siderable amount of drying. Prognosis.—The prognosis, as regards life, in imdulant fever is extremely good, as the mortality from this disease is under 2 per cent, but the prognosis as to length of attack is very uncertain. It may be taken as a general rule that, in cases commencing with one or two high waves as fever, and generally acute symptoms, with a serum possessing a high agglutinating reaction, the attack will be of much shorter duration than in cases with either the remittent or low type of fever. It must, however, be remembered that a case may suddenly or gradually change its type of fever, and it is quite common to have temperature charts show- ing all three types of fever at different periods of the same attack. The tongue is a very good guide as to prog- nosis, because as long as it remains lightly furred, flabby, and slightly enlarged, the patient is always liable to relapse, even if he has been for two or three weeks with normal tempera- ture ; but once the tongue really clears up and assumes its healthy aspect, then it is pretty safe to say that the patient has really got rid of his fever. Much disappointment is met with in practice from want of attention to this guiding principle, as patients are frequently sent back to their duties, after that their temperature has remained normal for a week or two, as cured, only to return to hospital with relapses in any time from a few days up to three months. In the author's opinion these cases have not got rid of the organism from the spleen, where it remains quiescent until such time as the bactericidal power of the blood is again lowered sufficiently in some way, e.g. excessive fatigue, etc., to allow the organism to once more get the upper hand, when the unfortunate patient again has to go through many weeks or months of fever just as if it were a fresh attack. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of undulant fever in its early stages, where Widal's test is not available, is an extremely difficult matter. This is owing to the fact that it commences in so many diff'erent ways ; in some cases continuous high fever (averaging 104°) with intense head- ache, diarrhoea, distended abdomen, enlarged spleen, and in fact simulating enteric fever in all its signs and symptoms; in others a con- tinuously low temperature, varying from 99° to 100°, often never going above 101°, with practi- cally no other symptoms ; in others, again, a high temperature for two or three days, 103° to 105°, with congested tonsils and fauces, furred tongue, and headache, the temperature dropping to 99° or 100° at the end of three or four days and continuing indefinitely at that range. In its early stages this fever may be mistaken for almost any disease that commences with raised temperature and general malaise; those with which it is most usually confounded being enteric fever, rheumatism, acute tonsillitis, aciite tuberculosis, and what, for the want of a more accurate term, is known as simple continued fever, or simple febricula. It is a matter of fre- quent occurrence to get cases sent into hospital as undulant fever which turn out to be tubercle, subacute rheumatism, deep-seated abscess, mal- aria, or secondary syphilis. Latterly the serum test for this fever has been much more widely used in the endemic areas, with the result that there is some accuracy about the statistical returns of the various fevers, whereas before Widal's test came into popular use for this disease the statistical return of fevers was totally unreliable. The sedimentation or agglutination test with the serum of cases of undulant fever is extremely reliable and satisfactory in every way. The reaction is nearly always obtainable by the fourth day of raised temperature, sometimes earlier and seldom later than the sixth day. It is also obtainable in much bigger dilutions than is the case with B. typhosus. The writer, after having had very large numbers of these cases under his care, has found that a dilution of 1 in 50 with a time limit of half an hour for the agglutination test is a reliable, easy, and rapid method of applying the test for this disease. In doubtful cases this test should be supplemented with varying dilu- tions and the sedimentation test. The serum test is also very useful from a prognostic point of view. Cases with high agglutinating powers usually make a more rapid recovery, especially if the agglutinating reaction gradually increases as the disease pro- gresses ; on the other hand, if the agglutinating power is low or gradually diminishes during the course of the disease, it usually means a very long illness, though not necessarily of a severe type. The writer has also observed that with a rising wave of temperature the agglutinating power also rises, and that it generally goes on rising for a day or two after the temperature wave has reached its extreme height and has already begun to come down. Symptoms.—Undulant fever is a disease re- markable for the fewness of its symptoms, a large proportion of the cases having practically no symptoms beyond the raised temperature.