53 TOXICOLOGY tion ; the colon has thus been perforated from without inwards. When nitric acid is the poison the corrosive effects are rather less pronounced, and the tissues tend to show a yellowish or brownish coloration. Perforation of the stomach is less frequent than with sulphuric acid. When hydrochloric acid is the poison the gastric mucous membrane is ashy grey in colour and is probably eroded; it may display indica- tions of acute gastritis with blackened patches. Perforation is exceptional. Tests.—Sulphuric acid gives a white pre- cipitate with a solution of barium chloride, which is insoluble in hydrochloric acid. If some of the precipitate is mixed with an equal bulk of sodium bicarbonate, and fused in the reducing flame of the blowpipe, it is converted into a sulphide. A fragment of this placed on a clean silver coin and moistened with water produces a brown or black stain of silver sulphide. Nitric Acid.—Free nitric acid develops a bright red when brought into contact with a crystal of brucine. If the acid is combined a drop of strong sulphuric acid will liberate it, and then the brucine reaction may be obtained. Hydrochloric Acid.—A solution of silver nitrate gives a white curdy precipitate which is soluble in ammonia, but not in nitric acid. Oxalic Acid not only acts as a corrosive, but it also exei-cises a special influence on the nervous system and on the heart. Symptoms.—-When swallowed in concentrated solution the local effects resemble those produced by the mineral acids; if the solution is less concentrated the local symptoms are less severe, and the specific action of the poison may be more obvious. The nerve symptoms are very irregular; they consist of partesthesia, or ansesthesia of the trunk or limbs, aching and shooting pains in the loins, numbness of the tips of the fingers, tenderness of the muscles of the calves, and convulsions. Sometimes oxalic acid has a narcotic action. Treatment.—Chalk, or whiting, suspended in a small quantity of water or milk neutralises the acid with the formation of inert salts. The alkalies and their carbonates should not be given, as the resulting salts are soluble and poisonous. All antidotes should be given in as small amount of water as will serve to suspend them, in order to limit diffusion and absorption of the poison. After the poison has been neutralised the bowels should be emptied by enemata or aperients. Fatal Dose.—One drachm caused the death of a boy aged sixteen. Recovery has followed one ounce and a quarter. Death has occurred in ten minutes; it usvially takes place within two hours, but it may be delayed for several days. Post-mortem Appearances.—If a strong solu- tion of oxalic acid has been swallowed the usual indications produced by corrosives are met with; the stomach may be either reddened, or it may be black, as is the case with sulphuric acid. The coats of the stomach may be softened, and, exceptionally, perforation occurs. A white zone of crystals of calcium oxalate may some- times be seen between the cortical and the medullary portions of the kidneys. Tests.—A solution of calcium chloride added to a solution of oxalic acid produces a white precipitate of calcium oxalate, which is insoluble in acetic acid, but is soluble in hydrochloric acid. The reaction is aided by neutralising the solution of oxalic acid before adding the calcium chloride. A solution of silver nitrate gives a white precipitate which is soluble in nitric acid and in ammonia. Potassium Binoxalate, or salt of sorrel, or salt of lemons, is nearly if not quite as poisonous as oxalic acid, and produces similar symptoms. Acetic and Tartaric Acids act as corrosives, or as irritants, according to the strength of solution in which they are swallowed. Treatment. — Neutralisation with magnesia and the alkalies, with subsequent administration of morphine. Carbolic Acid.—Although designated as an acid, phenol, or carbolic acid, has no acid reaction, but it coagulates albumin and destroys tissue, and therefore is regarded as a corrosive poison. Like oxalic acid its action is both local and I'emote; locally it is a corrosive, and remotely it exercises a complex influence on the nervous system. Symptoms.—The chief difference in the action of carbolic acid as compared with other corrosives is that vomiting is not only commonly absent, but that it is actually difficult to procure ; this is due to the antesthetic action of the poison on the gastric mucous membrane. The virine is usually dark in colour, or becomes so on exposure to the air, due to the presence of an oxidation product of phenol—hydroquinone. The body temperature is low from ibhe first, and death is threatened from cardiac and respiratory failure. Treatment.—As already stated, carbolic acid constitutes an exception to the rule that the stomach-tube should not be used in corrosive poisoning. A soft tube should be used, and the greatest care should be exercised in passing it in order to avoid perforating the ossophagus. The stomach should be well washed out with luke- warm water, preferably with some magnesium sulphate or saccharated lime dissolved, so as to produce an innocuous combination with the phenol. White of egg and milk may be given. The application of warmth externally by means of hot bottles and flannels is of the greatest importance. Stimulants should be administered, and if failure of the respiration seems imminent, artificial respiration should be performed.