105 TREMOR Physiology.—In order to understand the pre- vailing view of tremor it is necessary to turn for a moment to the character of voluntary muscular contractions and of muscle and nerve tonus. It is impossible to produce artificially a muscular contraction similar to that presented by a willed movement without the application of several rapidly-repeated stimuli, and there are many other reasons for supposing that even a single voluntary movement of a single muscle, such as the blink of an eyelid, is the result of several intermittent discharges of nervous energy. Moreover, physiological experiments tend to show that fatigue produces a diminution in the rapidity with which these discharges follow one another. If these assumptions are correct, voluntary muscular contractions are naturally rhythmical in character, and the close association of muscular tonus with muscular activity would lead us to believe that tonus itself is the result of intermittent impulses flowing in a continuous stream, under normal conditions, from living nerve cells, and capable of modification by various influences acting upon these cells. These physiological considerations are not calculated in the present state of our knowledge to explain the tremor of disease, but they enable us to put it in line with the natural activity of nerve and muscle, and to show that there is probably a very close relationship be- tween tremor, hypertonicity, and spasm, a relationship which may perhaps depend on variations in the amplitude and the rapidity of the so-called nervous discharges Clinical.—It has been customary to divide all tremors into two classes and to classify them under the terms " passive tremor" and "intention tremor," but this classification is unscientific and leads to many fallacies in practice. We find, for instance, that the tremor of disseminate sclerosis, although generally brought into notice by the attempt to perform some voluntary action, is often present while the patient is at rest, and that many passive tremors, such as that of paralysis agitans, may be remarkably exaggerated by voluntary exer- tion. If it were possible we should prefer to classify tremors on a scientific pathological basis, but our knowledge of their pathology is too scanty to permit of this course, and we shall therefore attempt a scheme of classification dependent on the conditions under which tremor is liable to occur. This method has the advan- tage of bringing together types of tremor which are similar not only in their clinical characters, but very probably also in their origin. Psychological. . . .1. Emotion. 2. Hysteria. Physiological.... 3. Heredity. 4. Senility. 5. Acute fatigue. 6. Chronic fatigue. 7. Cold. Pathological . . (A) 8. Toxaemia. 9. Metallic poisoning. 10. Chronic narcotism. (B) 11. Neurasthenia. 12. Rheumatoid arthritis. 13. Paralysis agitans. 14. Exophthalmic goitre. (C) 15. Disseminate sclerosis. 16. Lesions about the mesencephalon. 17. Spastic conditions generally. Psychological.—The tremors of emotion are too well known and too variable to admit of detailed description, but it may be noticed that they are more often excited by the unpleasant conditions of terror and anger than by more pleasurable states of mind. The tremors of hysteria are generally irregular, inconstant, often confined to one limb or part, and always worse under observation. They may be fine or coarse, but are more often coarse and moder- ately slow than fine and rapid. Physiological. — The hereditary and senile forms of tremor, like those of grey hair and arterio-sclerosis, are closely associated one with the other, and appear to be the visible signs of some premature tissue decay to which the family or the individual is especially prone. The hereditary form generally appears after twenty years of age, and resembles the senile form in being rather fine in character and in aff'ecting most frequently the muscles of the upper extremity and of the face and neck. AH forms of severe exertion may cause a temporary state of tremulousness, which must be familiar to every one, and which is especially noticeable in the attempt to carry out a fine movement, such as that of writing. On the other hand, the constant daily use of certain muscles, perhaps in constrained positions, is a prolific source of tremor in connection with the different forms of occupation neurosis. Miners' nystagmus and certain cases of writers' cramp are good examples of this, and the latter con- dition serves to show how closely spasm and tremor are associated not only in organic but in functional disorders of the neuro-muscular system. Exposure to a rapid fall of tempera- ture is liable to set up momentarily a form of tremor especially affecting the muscles of the head and trunk, of which the most common type is known by the name of "teeth-chattering." Pathological.—(A) Many specific fevers both in the acute stage and in the debility of con- valescence may give rise to tremors of the extremities and of the tongue and lips. It is impossible to say how far the rise of tempera- ture or how far the circulating toxins are responsible for this result, but it is probable that both have a deleterious influence on cer- tain nervous structures, of which the tremor is the outward expression.