544 WRIST-JOINT INJURIES his thought to set aside in one day the tradi- tions of L. Petit, of Desault, of Boyer. We are obliged to admit that these great masters of surgery, who have shown so much exactness in their observations, so much right sense in their judgments, and a spirit so simple in their descriptions, had all fallen into the same error, and have given the signs of a malady that they have never seen. Instead of waiting till facts could decide this question, an exaggerated enthusiasm, without appeal, judged it, and taxed as heresies all independent spirits who did not accept as an axiom the opinion of the surgeon of the Hotel Dieu." With these observations Voillemier inti'oduces his account of an accurately dissected dislocation of the wrist backwards. The category of such cases has grown since 1839, when Voillemier published his case. Some 70 fairly authenti- cated cases are now recorded, the greater number backward dislocations. Of the forward dislocations 7 at least have been proved by dissection. I have never seen a recent traumatic disloca- tion in the living or dead; our collection con- tains no instance of the lesion except in associa- tion with fracture of the radius. I shall now quote an excellent description of the complete dislocation of the carpus :— " Dislocation of the Wrist.^—W. W., aged twelve, was admitted 22nd March, having been knocked down by a cart a short time previously. He had two lacerated wounds of the scalp, and in connection with one of them a linear fracture of the posterior fossa of the base of the skull. There were no symptoms of brain injury. He complained of pain in the left wrist, but the parts around were so much swollen that the nature of the injury could not be made out. There were, however, two slight transverse abrasions on the fore and outer part of the limb about half an inch above the wrist joint. Evaporating lotions were applied and the swell- ing gradually diminished. The part then pre- sented the following characters :—The whole of the hand was displaced forwards and slightly outwards; on the dorsal aspect of the limb the lower end of the radius and ulna formed a marked projection, the styloid processes, especi- ally that of the radius, being very prominent, and the concave margin of the latter bone easily traced between them ; anteriorly a somewhat pointed prominence could be felt in the middle line opposite the wrist joint. The deformity was easily removed by slight extension, but returned again almost immediately. There was no crepitus. Two straight splints were applied to keep the parts in position. On the eighth day after the accident the patient was seized with tetanus and died the following day. 1 Lancet, 29th June 1878. Mr. Goodall's case, Bir- mingham General Hospital; recorded by Mr. Howard Lowe. " Dissection of the Wrist.—The parts about the joint were much ecchymosed. The external lateral ligament was completely torn through. The anterior ligament was torn from its attach- ment to the scaphoid and semilunar bones, and presented a free border inferiorly between the styloid process of the radius on the outer side, and the cuneiform bone on the inner side—the ligaments uniting the semilunar to the cunei- form were torn through; the scaphoid and semilunar, carrying the hand with them, were displaced forwards, passing over the free border of the anterior ligament, which ligament came thus to intervene between these bones and the surface of the radius with which they articulate ; the cuneiform was not separated from its con- nections, except those with the semilunar, and maintained its normal relations to the ulna and fibro-cartilage, though this part of the wrist joint was in a state of considerable flexion. "Remarks.—This was a case of pure disloca- tion ; there was no fracture of any of the bones, and no separation of the epiphj^sis of the radius. No clue could be obtained as to the direction of the force producing the dislocation, except from the position of the abrasions mentioned above, which seemed to indicate a force acting anteriorly on the lower end of the radius. The speedy return of the displacement observed was manifestly due to the fact that the dislocation was never really reduced, owing to the bones having passed in front of the anterior ligament of the wrist joint. The pointed prominence observed on the anterior aspect of the limb during life corresponded to the projection forward of the semilunar bone. " Very recently the following concise and graphic account of a compound dislocation of the bones of the forearm forwards without any fracture makes the recognition of such injury essential, and is noteworthy for the success of its treatment. " A Case of Compound Dislocation of the Wrist.i—A young man in emptying a cart of coal was lifting vip the front end of it, when the horse quickly plunged forwards, whereby the weight of the coal and the moving cart was thrown with great force upon the palm of the right hand ; as the elbow was fixed on the shaft a compound dislocation of the wrist resulted. " When I saw the case I found the lower ends of the radius and ulna partially denuded of periosteum projecting 4^ inches into the palm of the hand. There was great haemorrhage and considerable laceration of muscles and ligaments. The lower end of the radius and ulna were, in fact, stripped of all muscular and ligamentous attachments, and looked as if they had been scraped. " The parts were washed well with a strong solution of creolin and the dislocation reduced under chloroform. The lacerated and torn 1 British Medical Journal, 1st October 1898.