232 UNDULANT FEVER writings of Sir Wm. Burnet (1810), Henner (1818), Davy (1842), Marston (1860), and Notter (1876), this fever is undoubtedly recog- nised and described, but it is not until 1879 that we get any stress laid on the fact of this being a separate disease, sui generis, when Veale published a paper in the Army Medical Report of that year. From 1879 to 1889 nothing of importance was published about this disease, but in the latter year Bruce published an account of this fever in the British Medical Journal, which at once brought this disease out of the general confusion surrounding febrile conditions occurring in the Mediterranean, and established it as a separate specific disease. Geographical Distribution.—The chief ob- jection to the names Mediterranean or Malta fever for this disease (the terms by which it is generally known) is that it undoubtedly occurs in many other places besides Malta and the Mediterranean ports. It is certainly endemic in Malta, Gibraltar, Crete, and Cyprus; prob- ably also in Italy (southern portion), Greece, Turkey, and Sicily. There is now very good evidence that it occurs also in India, North and South Africa, South America, Straits Settle- ments, and China. The author has no doubt that when this disease is more generally under- stood it will prove to have a very wide distribu- tion, as he has been shown cases of so-called typho-malarial fever in the Straits Settlements, Borneo, and China which, with his present knowledge of the disease, he would have no hesitation in calling undulant fever. Etiology.—The discovery by Bruce in 1886 of the micrococcus Melitensis in the spleen of cases suffering from this disease finally established its casual agent. How this organism enters and leaves the human body, or what its habitat out- side the human body may be, are up to the present unsettled points. Theories xvith Regard to Causation.—•(!) The popular theory of the causation of undulant fever in Malta where, it may be mentioned, practically all the research work on this subject has been done, is that it is caused by the in- sanitary condition of the tideless harbours of that island. (2) Hughes, in his work on this fever, inclines very strongly to the theory that the disease is caused by an aerial ftecal poison. (3) The latest and at the present time most popular theory, at any rate in Malta, is that it is caused by the sting of some infected insect, such as the mosquito or sandfly, in exactly the same way as malaria is. From the evidence the writer has been able to collect during the past three years from naval, military, and civilian sources in Malta, there are insuperable difficulties to acceptation of any of these theories. The matter is still unsettled, but from the work on this subject that has been done up to the present the writer has come to the following conclusions:— (a) That the disease is air-borne. . This is arrived at by a process of exclusion of the other possible sources of infection, such as water, food, bites of insects, etc. (see Bacteriology). (6) That it is a very widely diffused organism in the localities where the fever is endemic, e.g. Malta. This conclusion is drawn from the fact that it occurs practically all over the island, attacking people living under totally different sanitary and social conditions. (c) That it has to be taken into the healthy individual in a large dose to produce its characteristic effects. By this is meant that in all probability the dwellers in an area where this fever is endemic inspire in the air they breathe a certain number of the organisms producing the disease, and that the natural bactericidal power of their blood is sufficient to destroy the organisms thus taken into the system, but that granted (1st) a lowered bactericidal power from any cause, such as ex- cessive fatigue, chill, the effects of some other illness, noticeably influenza and pneumonia, etc., or (2nd) that the organisms are taken into the system in sufficient quantities and for a suffi- cient length of time to overcome the natural bactericidal powers of the blood, then the organism gets the upper hand and finds its way to the spleen, and there is as much difficulty in dislodging it as it has found in arriving at its suitable nidus. There are many facts that point to the pro- bability of this theory being correct. The fact that the Maltese population (still taking Malta as an example) suffers in much smaller propor- tion than the European, points to their having a much stronger bactericidal power towards the organism, partly hereditary and partly acquired, the last being probably due to the fact that from earliest childhood they have been taking small doses of the organism into their system, and so increasing their bactericidal power towards it. It is also a fact that individuals recently arrived into an endemic area are more liable to contract the disease than people who have resided there for some time, showing that a partial immunity is acquired by length of resi- dence in the infected area. Influence of Age.—Children under four years of age and old people are seldom attacked, but people of all other ages seem equally prone to attack. Influence of Season.—The fever is usually most prevalent in the months of May, June, July, and August, the period of lowest rainfall, and what the writer would lay stress on, the period of greatest variability in the direction of wind with frequent dust storms. Incubation Period. — The exact incubation period of a disease usually starting with very