VESICUL^ SEMINALES 449 viduals on the two sides as do the testes, the right being usually the larger. Their upper obtuse extremities are separated widely from each other, but anteriorly they converge so as to approach the two vasa deferentia, which run forwards to the prostate between them. With the vasa deferentia thus interposed they occupy the two divergent sides of the triangular portion of the base of the bladder, which lies upon the rectum, and is bounded behind by the line of reflection of the peritoneum at the extremity of the recto-vesical pouch. The seminal vesicles themselves also rest upon the rectum, but are separated from it by a layer of recto-vesical fascia, which attaches them to the base of the bladder. The sacculated appearance of the seminal vesicles is owing to their peculiar formation. Each consists of a tube somewhat coiled and repeatedly doubled upon itself, and invested by dense fibrous tissue. When un- rolled this tube is found to be from 4 to 6 inches long and about the width of a quill. Its upper extremity is closed, so that it forms a long cul-de-sac, but there are generally, if not always, several longer or shorter branches or diverticula connected with it, which also end by closed extremities. Inferiorly the seminal vesicle becomes straight and narrowed, and ends in its own duct—about half an inch in length—which unites (close to the base of the prostate) on its inner side at an acute angle with the narrow termination of the correspond- ing vas deferens to form a single canal, the common seminal or ejaculatory duct. The seminal vesicles receive branches from the inferior vesicle and middle hfemorrhoidal arteries and veins. The nerves belong to the sym- pathetic system, and come from the hypogastric plexus. In structure the seminal vesicles re- semble very closely the adjoining sacculated portions of the vasa deferentia. Besides an ex- ternal investment connected with the recto- vesical fascia, and containing vessels of consider- able size, lymphatics, and gangliated nervous cords, they have a muscular coat and a mucous membrane. The muscular layers are thin com- pared with those of the vas deferens, and con- sist of two layers—an outer of longitudinal and an inner of circular fibres. A considerable amount of plain muscular tissue is found cover- ing their posterior surfaces, and extending trans- versely so as to cover in the two vesicles. There are also longitudinal fibres traceable over the vesicle from those of the bladder. In well-developed bodies this plain muscular tissue forms a distinct structure—ejaculator seminis — which is triangular in shape; its blunted apex being continuous with the prostate, where it is thickest. From here it passes back- wards, widening and thinning as it proceeds behind the seminal vesicles and their intervening vasa deferentia, and is lost over the posterior surface of the bladder. VOL. X Fuller, of New York, in referring to this structure, says : " The muscular fibres which compose the lateral lobes of the prostate have no defined posterior border, but extend back- ward, and become so blended with the musculo- fibrous tissue constituting the lower portion of the seminal vesicles, that it is impossible to say just where one ends and the other begins. If these muscular bands, which extend backwards from the prostate to the walls of the vesicles, are observed carefully, it will be seen that these fibres are so arranged that, when a prostatic muscular contraction takes place, there would be exerted a strong pull in the lower half of the vesicle such as would give the whole seminal vesicle a strong squeeze." The mucous membrane of the vesicles is traversed by very many fine rugse, which form an alveolar structure resembling that seen in the gall-bladder, but deeper, and enclosing much finer meshes. The epithelium lining the vesicles is columnar, with a deeper layer of small polyhedral cells. It is probable that the seminal vesicles secrete a peculiar fluid, which is incor- porated with the semen. The common seminal or ejaculatory ducts, two in number, are formed on each side by the junction of the narrowed ducts of the corresponding vas deferens and vesicula seminalis close to the base of the pros- tate gland. From this point they run forwards and downwards between the lateral prostatic lobes, and after a course of nearly an inch end in the floor of the prostatic urethra by two slit-like orifices placed in the verumontanum, one on each prominent margin of the prostatic utricle. Sometimes the ducts from either side unite together and open into the floor of the sinus pocularis. An ejaculatory duct is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and a sem- inal duct about half an inch, so that the urethral lining is little moi-e than one inch distant from the lining of the vesicle, and it is not surprising, therefore, that inflammation so readily travels from one to the other. Development.—The seminal vesicles are de- veloped from that part of the lower portion of the Wolffian duct which goes to form the vas deferens. At the lower and outer part of this canal, towards the end of the fourth month of development, there appears a little button—a simple diverticulum of the deferent, which en- larges little by little, and is the rudiment of the seminal vesicle. At birth they form two distinct projections at the terminations of the deferent canals, more horizontal than vertical in their directions ; their upper extremities not reaching the level of the ureters, and their surfaces being quite smooth. Their length is about 9 mm., and their breadth about 6 mm. Their cavity is relatively small to the thickness of the walls. Until puberty the vesicles have only slowly and slightly enlarged. They are not more than 29