483 VISION, THE FIELD OF Toxic Amblyopia.—Under this heading are considered these cases of central amblyopia which are of gradual onset, affecting both eyes usually in the same way, and much to the same extent. The absorption of poisonous drugs, usually extending over a prolonged period of time, is the cause in all cases. The well-known tobacco amblyopia is the most common type, but other poisons are known to produce a similar condition. Bisulphate of carbon, alcohol, iodoform, filix mas, quinine, and cocaine may be mentioned as examples. Tobacco amblyopia is most frequent in men over forty years of age. It is common to find visual acuity considerably reduced. Usually it is less than one-third of normal vision. The light- sense is always markedly affected, so that the power of distinguishing degrees of illumination is much reduced. Thus, if Bjerrum's types for testing the "light difference" are used, this defect can be readily demonstrated. The field is of normal extent, and if tested with the usual large-sized white test- object, shows no change throughout. When the test is made with colour (red or green) a colour scotoma is found in each eye, extending from the blind spot, which it in- cludes, to the fixation point, which it often also includes. The scotoma is oval, having its long axis horizontal, and occupies for the most part a paracentral posi- tion. It can be demon- strated for white if a object is used. It is Left Eye. gree from a temporary complete loss of sight on the one hand to almost full vision on the other. Ophthalmoscopic changes are absent as a rule during the early stages. A tendency to recovery is also characteristic. A variety of conditions affecting the optic nerve in its course from the chiasma to the eyeball may bring about the above group of symptoms. It is not, however, possible to discuss these conditions here, but only to mention the more important. Firstly, the nerve may suffer from morbid changes arising in the tissues surrounding it, as orbital cellulitis, periostitis, syphilitic disease of the sphenoid, which is apt to affect both nerves, and tubercle of the chiasma. Secondly, the nerve trunk may be the site of lesion, as in gumma of the nerve. Disseminated sclerosis may attack the optic nerve, either as part of a general condition manifested in other parts of the nervous system, or as a primary condition of the optic nerve. Eight Eye. Charts 7.—These charts are from a case of well-marked tobacco amblyopia. colour and also for Bjerrum's small white object-test. The scotoma is for sufficiently small test- always negative, that is to say, the patient is not conscious of it as a blind spot in the field {see Charts 7). The prognosis is always good, provided the patient gives up the use of tobacco, and recovery may even take place with the continued use of tobacco in reduced amount. Vision usually begins to improve about one month after the use of tobacco has been stopped, and complete recovery follows in three months or more. Retrobulbar Neuritis. — Under this heading come conditions of the optic nerve, which, while differing in etiology, have certain common clinical manifestations. The clinical characters of this group are almost entirely subjective, and may be stated as follows :—Rapid failure of vision, usually coming on in one eye. Pain and tenderness in the neighbourhood are often present, and especially on pressing the eyeball backwards into the orbit, and on lateral or vertical movements. Amblyopia is always pre- sent in the form of a central or paracentral scotoma, but may vary widely and in any de- Rheumatic and gouty conditions, with chill as the exciting cause, account for many cases, while menstrual disturbances are also regarded as a cause. Cases have also occurred in connec- tion with peripheral neuritis. The field of vision is affected in a very similar way to that found in tobacco amblyopia, that is to say, there is a negative colour scotoma in much the same position, and the field is not restricted. The following are the distinguishing points in the field :—The scotoma is either in one eye only, or if in both there is more frequently dissimi- larity in form and extent. The scotoma is more apt to extend to the inner side of the fixation point, and tends to be more central and less regular in form than that met with in tobacco cases. Though recovery so often takes place, the scotoma may become permanent, and may be associated with loss of peripheral vision. Progressive scotomatous atrophy may follow, or the scotoma may become absolute and re- main stationary. The prognosis is on the whole good, though much less favourable than in toxic amblyopia from tobacco {see Chart 8).