347 UTERUS, INFLAMMATIONS OF THE Subinvolution has to be differentiated from the following conditions, in which there is en- largement of the uterus :— 1. Pregnancy before the Third Month.—The amenorrhcea and morning sickness, and the soft, boggy consistence of the uterus in early preg- nancy, will in most cases be sufficient to enable one to distinguish an early gestation from the hard, subinvoluted uterus. Subinvolution, how- ever, in a lactating woman, when menstruation is in abeyance, may very easily be mistaken for an early pregnancy by one who is not skilled in the bimanual examination of the uterus. When any doubt exists, a definite diagnosis should be withheld for a month, by which time the growth of the uterine swelling and the development of some of the other signs of pregnancy will make the case clear. 2. Small Fibroid Tumour.—A small intra- mural or submucous fibroid which does not pro- duce any distortion in the form of the uterus. Not only an increase in its size may so closely simulate in its symptoms and physical signs subinvolution, as to make a correct diagnosis impossible until the case has been under obser- vation for some time ; the haemorrhage is likely to be more severe in the case of the fibroid, especially when it is submucous or polypoidal. 3. Chronic Metritis.— This condition is by many authorities considered to be the same pathologically as subinvolution, but while it is probable that the one condition frequently merges into the other, there is sufficient evi- dence clinically to warrant their being considered as separate diseases. In subinvolution the uterus, though enlarged, is not tender. In chronic metritis there is much greater pelvic pain, and dysmenorrhoea is always a marked symptom. Menorrhagia is always present in subinvolution, while it may be altogether absent in chronic metritis in its later stages. Finally, we may meet with well-marked metritis in nuUiparous women. Treatment.—From what has been said as to the etiology of subinvolution, it will be seen that preventive treatment is of the first im- portance. Strict antisepsis is to be observed during labour and in the lying-in period. Care should be taken that no part of the placenta is left in the uterus after labour or abortion. The patient should not be allowed up too soon, and constipation in the puerperium is to be guarded against. As regards the measures to be adopted when the condition is already present, these are all to be directed towards relieving the conges- tion and engorgement of the uterus, which is always present; and though it is questionable if any treatment will succeed in making the uterus smaller when the puerperal period has passed, still, many of the symptoms may be relieved and a partial cure at any rate eiTected. General or constitutional treatment is often more indicated than local remedies. Mineral and vegetable tonics, iodide of potassium, ergot, given over long periods, and the mineral waters of Kreuz- nach, etc., are all useful. In weak, debilitated women, where the general nutrition is poor and little food is taken, cod-liver old and iron are indicated. In all cases a saline aperient draught each morning does good. Local remedies include the use of the hot vaginal douche—to which some astringent may be added if there is also a relaxed and subin- voluted condition of the vagina and pelvic floor —and the glycerine plug. These remedies have largely replaced the former treatment of applying caustics to the endometrium and the application of leeches to the cervix, and, if pro- perly carried out as directed under the local treatment of chronic metritis, rarely fail to do good. Electricity, used in the same way as in the treatment of uterine fibroids, is also a valuable therapeutic remedy. Under its use the uterus often becomes distinctly smaller, and the menorrhagia lessens if not entirelydisappears. When the uterus is displaced, the first step in treatment will, of course, be the correction of the displacement and the retention of the uterus in its normal place by operation or the use of a vaginal pessary. When endometritis is present, the uterus should be curetted; and when the cervix is deeply lacerated and inflamed, attention must be directed to the cure of these conditions. Amputation of the cervix in subinvolution was formerly a popular method of treatment. It has, however, decidedly fallen into disuse. Should a patient with a subinvoluted uterus become pregnant, the greatest care should be taken to prevent an abortion, for it is in the succeeding puerperium that we will look for the only safest cure of this troublesome condition. SuPBRiNVOLUTiON OF THE Uterus. — Very rarely the process of involution after delivery does not stop at the restoration of the uterus to its normal non-pregnant size, but continues, and as a result the organ remains permanently small. To this condition Sir J. Y. Simpson applied the term superinvolution. It is also known as puerperal atrophy. Etiology.—This is obscure. Prolonged lacta- tion is said to cause it, and, from the relative frequency with which the condition is met with among the poorer classes, this is probably correct. Excessive loss of blood during labour is said to favour its occurrence, and it is more commonly met with in weak, anaemic patients than in those who are well nourished and full blooded. A form of atrophy of the uterus in the puerperium may be caused by an obstruction to its proper blood-supply in the cicatrisation of inflammatory exudations in the broad ligament. This, how- ever, though puerperal, is hardly the same con- dition as superinvolution. Symptoms. — Amenorrhcea, relative or com- plete, and sterility are the only symptoms of this rare affection. The diagnosis is made by