283 URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN observed in a variety of conditions, such as vesical catarrh, leuksemia, and nephritis, as also in various forms of poisoning and in fevers such as typhoid and pneumonia. Its occur- rence in jaundice has already been mentioned. Further investigations will doubtless teach us more as to the clinical significance of its occur- rence and its connection with renal disease on the one hand and disease of the mucous mem- brane of the urinary passages on the other. Fibrinuria.—When haemorrhage occurs into the urinary passages the presence of clots in the urine may be observed, and in a few in- stances coagula have been passed which contain only a few scattered blood* corpuscles, as, for example, in a case of parenchymatous nephritis near its fatal ending, observed by Friedrich Miiller, and as a result of cantharides poisoning in cases recorded by Senator and by Bartels. In a case recently recorded by Trischitta, the urine, which was quite liquid when passed, readily coagulated after emission into a jelly- like mass, which could only be decanted with difficulty. The patient was a woman aged twenty-nine, who had suffered from pain in the region of the right kidney, but no satisfactory explanation of the fibrinuria was forthcoming. It is, however, in chyluria that fibrinuria is most conspicuous, and in this condition the urine will sometimes clot so as to form a mass resembling blanc-mange. Albumosuria (^Peptonuria).—There is some confusion in the use of the terms albumosuria and peptonuria, which arises from the applica- tion of the name peptone to different substances. The peptone of Klihne, the ultimate product of the digestion of proteids, is characterised by the fact that although it yields the biuret and other proteid reactions, it is not precipitated by saturation of its solutions with ammonium sulphate. Several investigators have sought for such true peptone in normal and morbid urines without success, and the statement is usually made that it does not occur in the renal excretion unless after direct injection into the circulation. However, in a quite recent paper, Ito claims to have detected the peptone of Klihne, in association with albumose, in cases of pneumonia before and during the stage of resolution, in a case of advanced pulmonary phthisis, and also in puerperal cases. The condition spoken of as peptonuria is characterised by the presence in the urine of a proteid substance agreeing in properties with the peptone of Briicke, and which is more correctly described as a deutero-albumose. Whereas some writers prefer the more correct name of albumosuria for this condition, others limit the use of this designation to cases in which proteids are present, which resemble in their properties the digestive proto- and hetero- albumoses. The proteid resembling hetero- albumose, which is now usually spoken of as the Bence-Jones proteid, from the name of its discoverer, has a special diagnostic importance, but is of very rare occurrence. On the other hand, no very definite clinical distinction can as yet be drawn between cases in which proto- albumose occurs and the much commoner ones in which the proteid present has the characters of deutero-albumose. Detection of Albumoses in Urine.—When present in sufficient quantities the albumoses may be detected by tests applied directly to the urine, provided that albumin be absent. When albumin is present it requires to be got rid of as a preliminary measure before the tests for albumoses are applied. The fact that a urine which is free from albumin yields the biuret test with copper- sulphate and an alkaline hydrate must not be relied upon as indicating the presence of albumose, as some non-proteid constituents of urine yield a pink tint with these reagents, and the chief of these is urobilin. Nitric acid added drop by drop precipitates the Bence-Jones proteid and proto-albumose, and the precipitate so formed redissolves on heating and reappears on cooling. Deutero-albumose, on the other hand, is not so precipitated unless sodium chloride has been previously added. A precipitate of urates thrown down on the ad- dition of the acid may simulate an albumose. Salicyl-sulphonic acid is a very useful reagent for the detection of albumoses, as the precipi- tates which they yield are dissolved on heating and reappear on cooling. For the preliminary removal of albumin mere boiling does not suffice, and the removal is best effected by precipitation with ferric chloride from the neutralised urine. For the precipitation of albumoses, where scantily present, phospho-tungstic acid or tannin may be employed, or Devoto's method, which is based upon the fact that albumin and globulin become completely insoluble when boiled with a saturated solution of ammonium sulphate, whereas the precipitate of albumose so obtained may be redissolved in water. This method has the advantage that no special proceeding for the removal of albumin is required. The recognition of the Bence-Jones proteid will be spoken of later. Clinical Significance of Albumosuria.— By the researches of a number of observers, among whom von Jaksch, Hoff"meister, Devoto, and Sidney Martin may be mentioned, a mass of information as to the clinical significance of albumosuria or peptonuria has been collected. As has been already pointed out, the presence of albumoses is not indicative of renal disease, but of their presence in the blood. Huppert has well pointed out that the excretion of albumoses in the urine indicates the breaking down of albuminous tissues somewhere in the body. Thus albumosuria may occur during the