279 URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN with the deposition of calcium oxalate is an undoubted fact, but there is much room for doubt whether the primary phenomenon in such cases is an increase of oxalic acid in the blood. Dunlop maintains that the symptoms enumer- ated are merely those of hyperacid dyspepsia, and that the increased excretion of oxalate which accompanies them is due to the solution of unusually large amounts of the calcium oxalate of the food by the unduly acid gastric juice, and a resultant increase of absorption. In spite of the advocacy of Cantani and others, the tendency at the present day is rather to attach diminished importance to the association of this group of symptoms with oxaluria. It must be remembered that the crystals are sometimes only deposited from the urine after it has been passed, and that their presence does not necessarily imply that they were formed within the urinary passages. It is therefore important, in any given instance, to ascertain whether or no this is the case by the examina- tion of freshly passed specimens. Our first aim in the treatment of oxaluria must obviously be to diminish the output of calcium oxalate, as the smaller the quantity present the greater the chance of its being held in solution. With this object we should elimi- nate from the diet those vegetable foods which are specially rich in oxalic acid, such as rhubarb, spinach, and tea. It will also be well to avoid gelatin, the taking of which has been clearly shown to increase the output. If Dunlop's views are correct, the administration of hydrochloric acid after food, which has frequently been recom- mended, will rather tend to do harm by increas- ing the absorption of oxalate from the gastric contents. Klemperer and Tritschler recommend the taking of articles of diet rich in magnesium, such as rice, peas, farinaceous food, and coffee, and also advise the daily administration of small doses of magnesium sulphate, with a view to increasing the magnesium of the urine as com- pared with the calcium. The treatment of this condition has hitherto left so much to be desired that one gladly welcomes any therapeutic plan which holds out any prospect of success. V. Proteids in Urine Although their chemical relationship to each other renders natural the grouping together, under a common heading, of the substances belonging to the class of proteids which are met with in the urine under various morbid condi- tions, we should be justified, on clinical and pathological grounds, in placing them in quite distinct categories, seeing that the diagnostic indications afforded by the occurrence of the several members of the group are wholly different. Certain proteids are normal constituents of the blood plasma which it is one of the most important functions of the renal epithelium to retain in the circulation, whilst allowing free passage to water and to the waste products of metabolism which require to be eliminated from the blood. Others, again, are foreign substances which only find their way into the blood, in any but insignificant quantities, under abnormal conditions, and upon these the renal epithelium exerts no such retentive action. Thus whilst albuminuria, i.e. the excretion in the urine of easily appreciable quantities of serum-albumin, and paraglobulin, unless it be due to admixture below the kidneys, points to some failure of the renal epithelium to perform its allotted task in a satisfactory manner, albu- mosuria has no definite relation to the condition of the kidneys, but results from morbid pro- cesses elsewhere in the body, processes which lead to the formation of products the excretion of which in the urine reflects no discredit upon the kidneys. It is, of course, true that the primary cause of albuminuria lies behind the kidneys in many instances, as for example in cases of valvular disease of the heart, but in such cases the effect results from secondary changes brought about in the kidneys, as, for example, by circulatory derangements producing venous congestion and impaired nutrition of the glomerular epi- thelium. The albuminuria is due to renal disorder, although such disorder is secondary and not primary. Recent researches, and especially those of K. A. H. Morner, leave little room for doubt that minute traces of albuminous material are present even in normal urine, but whether or no such proteid comes through the kidneys or is derived from some lower portion of the urinary tract, its presence does not in any way detract from the diagnostic importance of such quantities of albumin as can be detected by the ordinary methods employed in clinical work. Albuminuria.—A number of tests are avail- able for the detection of amounts of albumin which are clinically significant, of which the following are amongst those in most general use :— The Heat Test.—A specimen of urine, which if turbid should have been passed through a filter, is placed in a test-tube, and if alkaline should be rendered feebly acid with acetic acid. The upper part of the column of liquid is then boiled. If an opalescence turbidity or precipi- tate is formed this may be due either to albumin or to earthy phosphates, owing to changes in the arrangement of bases in the phosphates. If now a few drops of acetic acid be added a phosphatic precipitate will at once be redis- solved, whereas an albuminous precipitate tends to become more flocculent. The boiling should be repeated after the addition of each drop of acid. A few drops to 1 c.c. of nitric acid may be