TUBERCULOSIS 136 probably not a " white softening " so called, as no special signs of it exist during life. Some suppose that the inflamed ependyma allows the ventricular fluid to permeate the brain sub- stance, and produce a condition resembling maceration. If it were due to the spread of tubercle nodules along the vessels, one should expect it to be specially evident in the cortex, where such spread takes place. Yellow softening has been described as occur- ring in the area of cortex supplied by the middle cerebral artery (Barlow). Localised Miliary Tuberculosis.—While this does occur in children, it is more common in adults than the generalised condition, which is commoner in children. So far as the writer can determine from his own experience, such tubercles are usually yellower, larger, flat, and sometimes confluent. The patches occur on the vertex, often along the Rolandic area, and though the condition, as seen post-mortem, seems slight, it is neverthe- less often rapidly fatal. In tuberculous meningitis the disease may spread to the choroid—affording a physical sign of use in the later stages. Occasionally one meets with fibrous areas on the convexity containing small caseous deposits, which would indicate that recovery may take place fi-om this localised form. The generalised form may, to all intents and purposes, be looked on as invariably fatal. The frequency of the occurrence of tuberculous meningitis in children may be inferred from sta- tistics prepared by the writer from the post- mortem records in the Edinburgh Sick Children's Hospital. Out of 331 cases of tuberculosis, the central nervous system was involved in 158 cases; acute tuberculous meningitis occurred alone in 121 cases; acute tuberculous menin- gitis with caseous nodules in 26 cases; and caseous nodules alone in 11 cases. In the greater number of the second class the caseous nodules proved the centre of dissemination of the meningitis. Still found caseous nodules in 15 per cent of his cases. Caseous tuberculous nodules varying in size up to that of a walnut occur in the substance of brain or cerebellum, or develop from the matres and grow downwards into the brain. The former appear to have no special proclivity for cerebrum or cerebellum. They also develop in the basal ganglia and, rarely, even in the choroid plexus. Surrounding them smaller tubercles are usually found, and they may give rise to an acute meningitis, usually localised to their neighbourhood, but sometimes general. Spinal Cord. — The spinal meninges are usually found aff'ected along with the cerebral, and secondary to them. Occasionally, however, they are free, as, for example, in 9 out of 35 cases examined at the Edinburgh Sick Children's Hospital. Occasionally the disease commences in the spinal cord, as, for example, by extension from a vertebral caries or from other localised tuberculosis near. This appeared to be the case in 4 out of the above-mentioned 35 cases. Very frequently the naked-eye appearances are not so marked as in the brain, the surface being simply congested and granular, with delicate adhesions to the dura, but the tubercles may be well marked. The condition varies in intensity in the different regions of the cord. It is frequently confined to the cervical cord. It may affect the cervical and lumbar cord, missing the dorsal, or it may affect the lumbar cord only, or it may be evident in the cervical region, and gradually become less so as one passes down- wards. Early I'uherculosis of the Dura Mater.—Oc- casionally a few flattened soft granulations are found on the dura. The writer recollects only three of such cases. They are never of large size. Skin. — Lupus is the commonest form of tuberculosis of the skin. In this case lymphoid cells collect in masses round the vascular net- work in the corium, and in the meshes epi- thelioid and giant cells may be found. The giant cells differ somewhat from those found elsewhere, in not possessing distinct processes. Tubercle bacilli are present, but in such scanty proportion that they are hard to detect. The sebaceous glands and hair follicles are destroyed, but it is said (Coats) that the sweat glands are spared. The condition undergoes degeneration and ulceration, or may cicatrise without ulceration. It may be unaccompanied by tuberculous manifestation elsewhere. Lesions of Tuberculosis in Animals On the whole, appearances similar to those found in man prevail. There are, however, certain minor variations in structure in certain animals, and bacilli are more readily demon- strated than in the tissues of man. In cattle, tuberculosis is very common. The structures most frequently affected are glands and serous membranes, particularly the pleura and peritoneum, and the lungs. In the serous membranes the tubercles form masses frequently of some size, which may form villous projections from the surface. These nodules have been compared to pearls, whence the terms " Pearl disease " or Perlsucht. When they are in the form of flattened fibrous tubercles they are compared to duckweed, and have been given the name Meerlinsigkeit. In internal organs, comparatively large rounded nodules and sometimes considerable infiltrations are met with. These nodules are peculiarly prone to calcifi- cation. Tuberculosis in horses somewhat resembles thatin cattle. Occasionally large cellular masses