533 WINES Wines. See Alcohol; Vina; and under CoLCHicuM, Ferrum, Quinine, etc. "Winged" Scapula. See Muscles, Diseases of the {Idiopathic Muscular Atrophy, Facio-Scapulo-Humeral Type). Winking'. See Nictitation. Winslow, Foramen of.—The open- ing between the greater and lesser cavities of the peritoneum. See Peritoneum {Anatomy). WinslOW'S Ligament. — The pos- terior ligament of the knee-joint. See Knee- JoiNT, Diseases of {Anatomical Considerations). WinslOW'S PouCil.—The gastro-heptic omentum. Wintergreen. See Gaultheria. Wintricii's Sign.—The fact that the percussion note over a cavity in the lung differs in pitch with the opening or shutting of the mouth. Wiring, Operation of. See Frac- tures {Treatment, Wiring) ; Mouth, Injuries AND Diseases op the Jaw {Mandible, Fracture, Wiring). Wirsung, Duct or Canal of. See Pancreas {Physiology, Developvient). Witch's Milk. See Mammary Gland, Diseases op {Inflammatory Affections, Mastitis of Infancy). Woillez' Disease.—Acute congestion of the lungs as an independent disease. Wolffian Body.—The mesonephros, the duct of which is called the Wolffian duct. See Broad Ligament, Diseases of {Tumours of); Generation, Female Organs op {Organ of Rosenmiiller). Wolffian Cyst.—A cystic tumour in the broad ligament or its immediate neighbour- hood, believed to be developed from the relics of the Wolffian body or parovarium. See Ovaries, Diseases op {Cysts). Wolfler'S Operation. See Stomach, Surgical {Operations, Gastro-Gastrostomy). Wooden Tongue. /See Actinomycosis {Synonyms, Scirrhus Tongue). Wood hall Spa. See Balneology {Great Britain, Muriated Waters); Mineral Waters {Muriated Saline). Wood Ticks. See Scabies {Other Acari, Ixodes). Wood Wool.—Pine-wood, finely divided and impregnated with corrosive sublimate ; an antiseptic dressing. WoolSOrters' Disease. See An- thrax {Synonyms). Woorara. See Curara. Word-Blindness. See Aphasia {Alexia or Visual Aphasia); Brain, Physiology op (Word-Seeing Centre). Word-Deafness. See Aphasia {Clini- cal Varieties, Auditory Aphasia); Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Nerve-Deafness, Word- Deafness) ; Brain, Physiology op (Word-hear- ing Centre). Work. See Physiology, Tissues {Muscle, Work of; Effects of Muscular Work). Wormian Bones.—Accessory bones found in the cranial sutures; ossa triquetra. Worms. See Parasites {Trematodes, Ces- todes, Nematodes); see also Abdomen, Clinical Examination of {Symptoms); Chorea {Causes); Enemata {I'herapeutic Uses, Parasites); F^ces {Foreign Bodies); Rectum, Diseases of {Proci- dentia Causes); Urination, Disorders of {Enuresis). Worthing. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {English). Wounds. Definition ...... 533 Varieties ...... 534 Modes op Repair ..... 534 Treatment ...... 536 Immediate General, Local . . . .536 Subsequent General ..... 541 Local 542 See also Abdomen, Injuries of (Wounds); Anklb-Joint, Region of. Injuries (Wounds); Aseptic Treatment op Wounds; Bladder, In- juries and Diseases op {Penetrating Wounds); Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections of ( Wounds); Chest, Injuries op (»S'o/if Parts, etc.); Diphtheria {Clinical History, Wound Diph- theria) ; Heart, Surgery of ; Hip-Joint, In- juries OF (Wounds); Knee-Joint, Injuries op (Wounds); Malingering ( Woimds); Medicine, Forensic (Wounds and Injuries); Menstrua- tion AND ITS Disorders {Vicarious Menstrua- tion) ; Neck, Region of {Injuries, Wounds); Spine, Surgical Affections op {Contusions, etc.). Definition.—A wound is a breach in the skin or a mucous membrane suddenly made by mechanical force, and thus opening a way into deeper tissues. This strictly surgical definition must be distinguished from the medico-legal use of the word, which, by judicial decisions, though not by statute, is held to include such