UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE 372 eases it is not a matter of surprise that the two conditions should frequently coexist. In some cases the two diseases may be seen in close proximity without interfering with each other, but when the capsule of a fibroid is invaded by contiguous cancer the tumour ulcerates and sloughs with great rapidity. Cancer of the body of the uterus is more frequently complicated with fibroids than cancer of the cervix, and it is a fact important to bear in mind that a woman who has attained her menopause, and is known Fig. 12.—Microscopic characters of the " tubular " cancer shown in Fig. 11. to have fibroids, and especially if she be sterile, begins to suffer from irregular " issues of blood " ; this may be due to cancer of the endometrium (Fig. 13). It is always a suspicious sign and demands the most careful investigation. The matter may be put in the following aphoristic form :— Wheri a woman with uterine fibroids, having passed the menopause, begins to have irregular profuse uterine hcemorrhages, it is ex- tremely probable that she has cancer of the body of the uterus. Sarcoma of the Uterus.—The uterus, like other hollow muscular organs, is liable to sarco- mata, but it would be difficult, indeed impossible, to state whether these tumours arose among its muscular elements or in the connective tissue of the endometrium. Before 1889 very few ac- curate facts were available in regard to uterine sarcomata, because it had become customary to describe all malignant tumours of the uterus as cancerous ; but at that date Sanger and Pfeiffer independently described a remarkable variety of malignant tumour arising in connection with the parturient uterus, which has led pathologists to give very careful attention to all forms of malignant disease attacking the uterus. Quite apart from the tumours described by Sanger and Pfeiffer, and which are considered in an- other article under the heading " Decidiioma " (see vol. viii. p. 380), tumours with the characters of round-celled and spindle-celled sar- comata do arise in the uterus. They are, however, very excep- tional. In one remarkable case described by Pernice a tumour grew from the neck of the uterus, and had the structure of a spindle- celled sarcoma; many of the spindles presented the transverse striation so characteristic of the tumours known as myosarcomata. The tumour recurred after re- moval, and the recurrent growth exhibited the ordinary spindle cells common to sarcomata. The disease in this case was rapidly fatal. In the few examples which have come under the writer's ob- servation the tumours arose from the neck of the uterus by a some- what broad stalk, and then formed dendritic masses in the vagina. In one case the tumour had the bulk of a cocoa-nut. These sar- comata are generally of the spindle- celled species, and the most marked feature is the rapidity with which they recur after removal. The patients are generally women be- tween twenty and thirty-five years of age. This kind of sarcoma growing from the cervix is probably very rare, because the peculiar mass which fills the vagina, the narrow base from which it springs, the extraordinary rapidity with which it recurs after removal, con- stitute a clinical picture not likely to be mis- taken ; and they differ so much from the ordi- nary genera of tumours which attack the cervix that they would be sure to attract attention. Hysterectomy Hysterectomy, as the surgical operation for the removal of the uterus is called, can be effected by two distinct methods. In one