THYROID GLAND, MEDICAL SECTION 19 and malignant goitre will be considered separ- ately. Etiology.—Goitre occurs much more fre- quently in women in this country than in men. It may occur at any time of life, but most fre- quently is first noticed about puberty. Goitre is hereditary in some families, though in some cases this may be due to several generations living under similar conditions. One of my cases, a young married woman, who was sent to me by Mr. A Thompson of Darlington, with a large adenoma of the thyroid, had a twin sister who also had a goitre. In certain districts, which are for the most part mountainous with deep valleys, goitre is endemic. Such districts occur in the Pennine range in England, and especially in the mountainous parts of Switzer- land and the adjoining countries. The disease is also endemic in some flat countries, as on the plains of Lombardy and in the Indian Punjab. Of the many local circumstances which have been suspected of causing endemic goitre the drinking-water has proved to be the most important. The disease has developed after the introduction of a fresh water-supply, where it was not endemic before, and conversely, in a previously goitrous district change of water- supply has been followed by a steady diminution in the number of cases. What the active con- stituent of the water may be is not yet known, but the fact that such water is rendered harm- less by boiling indicates that it is possibly a living micro-organism. Symptoms.—When a goitre is small, a swell- ing in the thyroidal region, which moves up- wards when the patient swallows, and a sense of fulness in the neck, may be the only signs of its presence. The character of the swelling varies according as the goitre is parenchy- matous, adenomatous, cystic, or fibro-cystic. In parenchymatous goitre it is uniform in shape and consistence with the normal gland. An adenoma forms a firm rounded mass, and a cyst a smooth globular swelling in which fluctuation may be felt. In some cases, however, it is difficult to determine by palpation whether an adenoma is cystic or not. Dyspnoea is not un- common, and is generally due to narrowing of the trachea by unilateral or bilateral pressure exerted upon it by the goitre. In other cases pressure may be caused by an extension of the goitre behind the trachea or in front between it and the sternum. Dyspnoea may, but rarely, occur as the result of pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerves, causing paraly- sis of the abductors of the vocal cords. In cases of large goitre there may be sudden paroxysmal attacks of dyspnosa, especially at night. Dysphagia may occur, but it is rare, A goitre may undergo rapid enlargement as the result of haemorrhage or of acute inflammation. Medical Treatment.—In the early stages of endemic goitre, removal from the goitrous district, or the boiling of all drinking-water, may be followed by the disappearance of the goitre. In simple parenchymatous goitre, especially in young adults, the best results are obtained by giving thyroid extract. In some cases the goitre disappears entirely, in others it is reduced to one-half or a third of its former size, while in some cases little or no eff"ect is produced. From one to three grains of dry thyroid powder should be given twice or thrice daily. This dose may be continued for six or eight weeks. If the goitre is then diminishing in size the treatment may be continued for another two or three months. If there is no decrease in size at the end of the first two months further continuance of the treatment is useless. This treatment may be accompanied by the inunction of red iodide of mercury oint- ment. Potassium iodide and iodoform have also been successfully used in the medical treat- ment of goitre. Malignant Disease. — Both carcinoma and sarcoma of the thyroid gland are rare, but clinically it is often difficult to distinguish between them. Carcinoma may originate either from the alveolar epithelium of the gland or from the parathyroid gland. A sarcoma may be either round or spindle-celled. Malignant disease may develop in a gland which has previously been healthy or in one already goitrous. In carcinoma there is gener- ally rapid enlargement and early fixation of the goitre. The swelling is hai-d and irregular in shape. There may be radiating pain over the front of the neck. Paralysis of one or both vocal cords is strong, but not conclusive evi- dence of malignant disease. The trachea, oesophagus, and blood-vessels may be first com- pressed and later invaded by the growth. The lymphatic glands are only infected after the growth has extended beyond the capsule of the gland. Sarcoma is generally more uniform and softer in consistence than carcinoma and may be cystic. The only treatment which offers any prospect of success is total removal of the whole thyroid gland as early as possible. Thyroid Gland, Surg-ery of. Introduction . . . . . .19 Treatment of Goitre . . . .21 Adenomatous Tumours .... 23 Exophthalmic Goitre .... 24 Malignant Disease .... 24 Tracheotomy in Thyroid Disease . 24 Until a comparatively quite recent period, operations upon the thyroid gland were looked upon with great suspicion, and were only re- sorted to when urgent symptoms imperatively called for surgical interference, and as a matter of necessity. This hesitation to interfere surgi- cally with the thyroid gland was due to the