VEINS, DISEASES OF 424 5. In tuberculosis a tubercular form of phle- bitis is occasionally seen, caused, apparently, by the deposit of the organism on the vessel wall from the blood stream; and an acute phlebitis may be brought about in the same way in the course of septicaemia. 6. A chronic form of phlebitis not infrequently occurs in individuals affected with syphilis, and is characterised by thickening of the vessels, and by a certain amount of pain and slight tenderness. Treatment.—In all forms of the disease the patient must be confined to bed, and the limb should be elevated, and it is advisable to im- mobilise it by the application of a light splint and a bandage, or by lateral sandbags. Heat relieves the pain, and the part should therefore be kept warm. Some local application is advis- able, and an unguent, consisting of equal parts of glycerine and extract of belladonna, may be smeared on without friction, and the limb then covered with cotton-wool and a bandage. The general treatment consists in that applic- able to any form of acute inflammation, such as a saline purge and a light diet for cases where the circulation is good. When the thrombosis and phlebitis are consequent upon a general impairment of vitality, a nourishing diet, with tonics and cod-liver oil, is indicated. The rule is to treat constitutionally the general condition, and the frequency of a gouty element being present should not be lost sight of, and such cases treated with colchicum, alkalies, and iodide of potash. Should the phlebitis show a tendency to spread upwards along the course of a superficial vein and to affect larger vessels, the danger of embolism is increased, and it may be advisable to excise a portion of the vein and thus to inter- rupt the conducting medium. Pulmonary Embolism. — Whenever there is recent thrombosis, the possibility of part of the clot being detached, carried to the heart, and thence to the lungs, must never be forgotten. Blocking of the smaller branches of the pul- monary artery is often the cause of pulmonary apoplexy, lobular pneumonia, circumscribed ab- scesses, patches of gangrene, and the like, but it is in the obstruction of the larger divisions that the chief source of danger is found. Com- plications of this kind occur with a tragic suddenness; for the patient may have been in fair health, suffering only from a slightly painful swelling of some varicose veins in the leg, and suddenly present symptoms of the most severe interference with the circulation and respiration, only gradually recovered from, or terminating in sudden death. When a branch of the pul- monary artery is blocked, the circulation is at once cut off from the area of lung supplied by it, since the branches of the pulmonary artery form only capillary anastomoses with one another, and the respiratory function of the part is at once lost. It has been disputed whether death is due to syncope or to asphyxia, but it is certain that the sudden obstruction of the pulmonary artery causes shock or collapse, and that the patient sometimes dies of this shock within a few seconds. The symptoms of pulmonic obstruction are by no means typical, and are often indistinguish- able from those of angina, or rupture of an aneurysm or of the heart itself into the peri- cardial cavity. It must also be borne in mind that many of the recorded cases of sudden death from pulmonary embolism are cases in which the only foundations for the diagnosis were— suddenness of death, possibly from syncope, and the discovery after death of an ordinary fibrinous clot in the right ventricle, prolonged thence into the pulmonary artery and its branches, a clot originating in the spot in which it was found, and the consequence of dying, not the cause of death. The symptoms of the occurrence of a pulmon- ary embolism are sudden pain at the heart, with distress and faintness, rapid and irregular action of the heart, and gasping breathing, with distress and lividity. There are not usually distinct physical signs, and the treatment consists in the administration of ammonia in frequent doses, as this substance has the double use of stimulating the circulation, and is said also to have the property of dissolving thrombi. Suppurative or septic phlebitis, brought about by the invasion of organisms, is often due to infection from some focus outside the vessel, and therefore may occur in any septic wound, or with any suppurative condition, especially when there is tension. It is well typified in the condition sometimes found in the lateral sinus of the cranium and the internal jugular vein in connection with middle ear disease (q.v.). When the thrombus undergoes infective softening the vein wall and the tissues round it become the seat of an intense inflammation, the signs of which are obvious in the case of the superficial veins and in the deep veins, such as the internal jugular; fulness and tenderness along its course may be discovered. The condition also occurs in connection with septic inflammations in cellular tissue, especially when the tissue is dense, as in the subcutaneous tissue of the face, and consequently there is tension. Such conditions as " facial carbuncle " are liable to produce a septic thrombosis of the branches of the facial vein, and the gravity of the condition is increased by the liability of the infection of the intracranial veins and sinuses by spread of the thrombosis by direct continuity. The local symptoms are those of an acute phlebitis, with great redness and swelling, and with severe general symptoms of a high fever. The prognosis is very grave, and everything depends upon limiting the spread of the disease. The condition must be treated on surgical lines.