536 WOUNDS tion declines, the boundaries of the lesion are fenced off by a protecting barrier of leucocytes, and evidences of repair manifest themselves by the appearance of minute granular points, bright red in colour, studding the raw surfaces. These are the granulations characteristic of healing by the second intention. Each granu- lation consists of a newly-formed vascular loop arising from pre-existing capillaries, enveloped in layers of cells, of which the superficial ones are constantly being shed, whilst those in con- tact with the vessel are developing into fibres. As reconstruction advances, the granulations grow upwards and from the sides so as to pro- gressively fill the gap, whilst beneath them fibro-vascular scar-tissue increases in quantity, contracting as it does so, and thus diminishing the wound in all its dimensions. With the approach of granulations towards the level of the skin, epithelium grows across from the edges, and surface continuity is restored. 5. Healing by the Union of Granulations or Third Intention.—W\-\exi the opposite walls of a wound are lined with healthy granulations, and these are pressed into apposition, as by suturing, organic union may supersede the mere mechanical contact. The pi'ocess by which interlacing fibres and capillary loops blend the two sides together is identical with what has been already described. Advantage can sometimes be taken of this mode of repair in order to hasten recovery when primary union has failed. Summary.—From a review of the foregoing condensed account of healing, it is evident that the processes and their results are essentially of the same nature in all classes of wounds. Whatever mode of repair is investigated, the underlying feature, to which there is no excep- tion, is inflammation, associated, as recoverable inflammation invariably is, with degeneration and generation of tissue. Traced to their foundation, therefore, the diverse phases of wound-repair are simply so many variations in the intensity of inflammatory reaction called forth by injury, whether that be mechanical violence acting alone or aggravated by harmful micro-organisms. In the case of primary union pure and simple, or one of its modifications of healing through a blood-clot or under a scab, disturbance is slight and reaction proportionately small, and in favourable examples tlie amount of new tissue constructed is almost infinitesimal; and whereas the contrary holds good for granu- lating wounds, yet after all the difference is merely one of degree rather than of kind, and the ultimate result is universally the same, namely, the genesis of a fibro-vascular nexus, of which all scars in the soft parts are composed. Immediate Treatment. — A. General. — The general condition of the patient will claim the surgeon's early solicitude. If there be much shock, the prompt administration of stimulants is indicated. This should take the form of hot stimulating fluids given by the mouth or rectum ; or the injection of such drugs as ether, strych- nine, digitalis and atropine under the skin. The hypodermic method will yield the most speedy results. The patient must be placed flat on his back with the head lowered by tilt- ing up the foot of the bed on chaii-s; and warmth is to be promoted by blankets and hot-water bottles, care being also taken in cold weather to maintain the temperature of the room. AncBmia due to profuse bleeding demands the infusion of saline fluid into the subcutaneous connective tissue (hypodermoclysis). Normal salt solution 0-6 per cent warmed to 105° F. answers well, and as much as a pint may be allowed to flow into the chest-wall through a large hollow needle connected with rubber tubing and a glass funnel, the rate being kept slow by not unduly raising the funnel. Alter- natively the fluid may be injected into the rectum. Pain should be quelled by morphia, which has the further beneficial effect in many cases of mitigating shock. In susceptible persons there is often a degree of faintness out of proportion to the extent of injury. The recumbent posture is here imperative, and in- deed is advisable during the immediate treat- ment of all wounds. If the patient be seated, and syncope occur owing to painful manipula- tions or emotional disturbance, he may fall to the floor, to the confusion of the surgeon whose attention has been engrossed by the wound. B. Local.—The paramount considerations to be kept in view from first to last are the secur- ing of asepsis and rest. Of these asepsis is of supreme concern, but rest must also be re- garded as absolutely essential to perfect success. If both conditions be efficiently maintained throughout, healing will take place quickly and satisfactorily with the slightest local changes, and, what is of vastly greater moment, consti- tutional disturbance, with all its attendant dangers, will be reduced to a minimum. The technique of present-day wound-surgery and its scientific explanation are intimately re- lated to the study of bacteriology—particularly that branch which concerns itself with patho- genic organisms. The fact is now thoroughly established that many varieties of harmful bacteria abound in the air and dust of all places inhabited by man. They find favourable harbourage in the skin and mucous membranes, entering the mouths of ducts and penetrating between epithelial scales into the deeper layers of the epidermis, whence they can readily in- vade the vascular tissues through any breach of surface-continuity. All objects, other than germicidal agents, freely exposed to the atmo- sphere of populated districts become in like manner contaminated by the deposition of particles of dust or dirt, which to the surgical mind are merely synonyms for germs, and,