VESICUL^ SEMINALES 457 combining the Zuckerkandl incision with that of von Dittel. This combination gives very free access to the rectovesical space. Villeneuve claims to have removed a seminal vesicle through the inguinal canal, by laying this structure freely open in its entire length, and exerting upward traction in the cord (in a manner similar to that in the round ligament in Alexander's operation) until the vesicle is brought into view and excised. This operation is inapplicable where a vesicle is bound down by adhesions, as is usually the case. Zuckerkandl. — The patient occupies the " lithotomy " position, and an English catheter of large calibre is introduced into the urethra. The operator sits in front of .the patient, and guides the knife with his right hand, while the index finger of the left hand is introduced into the rectum, in order that in the progress of the deep dissection the anterior wall of the rectum shall be avoided. A large perineal flap- incision is made, whose posterior extremity on either side extends to the tuberosities of the ischium, and whose anterior boundary lies in front of the rectum. After division of the skin and the subcutaneous connective tissue the perineal septum is divided transversely, and blunt dissection is made between the rectum and the urethra upward toward the prostate. The detachment of the rectum is continued through a considerable extent, until the seminal vesicles and the base of the bladder become visible in displacement of the rectum towards the sacrum. The altered seminal vesicles are peeled out of their surroundings, dissected from the fundus of the bladder, and removed. At the same time morbid collections in the prostate gland can be excised. Resection and Extirpation of the Vas Deferens. —Resection of the vas deferens in its continuity has been performed in numerous cases. The vas is palpable through the skin, as a round firm strand, and it may thus be separated from the remaining structures of the spermatic cord. The cutaneous incision for the isolation of the vas deferens, 3 or 4 cm. long, may be made either in front of the external inguinal ring or at the neck of the scrotum. The structures forming the spermatic cord are forced out of the wound, and the incision is extended up- wards as far as the level of the internal ring, the inguinal canal is laid open throughout, so that the vas deferens is exposed in its course through this canal, and is thus rendered acces- sible to surgical removal. The pelvic portion of the vas would be accessible by this means only after extended detachment of the peri- toneum, entailing injury of disproportionate degree. This portion of the duct is therefore to be reached by the perineal route, as already described, for removal of the seminal vesicles. In place of extirpation, divulsion of the vas deferens is recommended. The duct is isolated and exposed throughout its extent as far as possible, and by gradually increased traction until the vas gives way, about four-fifths of the duct can be removed. Extirpation of the seminal vesicle has been practised in a number of occasions, generally for tubercular conditions. The results from such operations have not so far been very brilliant. Occasionally, however, the operation may be required. The Zuckerkandl, the von Dittel, and the Rydygier incisions, or combina- tions of these, represent the surgical methods to be employed. Vesicula,r.—Bladder-like or made up of vesicles, or produced by vesicles; e.g. vesicular eczema (eczema characterised by the formation of vesicles), vesicular emphysema (emphysema in which the ultimate alveoli of the lungs are distended), vesicular murmur (the sound heard on auscultation over normal lungs), and vesicular mole (hydatidiform degeneration of the chorion). See Dermatitis Herpetiformis ; Foot and Mouth Disease ( Vesicular Eruption); Menstruation and its Disorders {Metrorrhagia, Causes, Hydatid Mole); Morphinomania and Allied Drug Habits {Antipyrin, Ctitaiieous Eruption); Pregnancy, Ovum and Decidua (Chorion, Affections of. Vesicular Degenera- tion). Vesiculitis.—Inflammation of the vesi- culse seminales. See Vesicul^e Seminales {Inflammations). VesiCUlO-.—In compound words vesiculo- means vesicular in its various significations; e.g. vesiculo-bronchial breathing (a type of respira- tion combining vesicular and laronchial qualities), vesiculo-tubular, etc. Vessels. See Arteries, Diseases of ; Aneurysm ; Aorta, Thoracic ; Aphasia ; Brain, Physiology of ; Brain, Affections of Blood- vessels ; Brain, Surgery of ; Capilliaries, Diseases op ; Embolism ; Heart, Physiology of ; Physiology, Circulation ; Pulse ; Toxi- cology {Ergotism); Veins, Diseases of ; etc. Vestibule.—In anatomy the term vesti- bule is applied (1) to a part of the internal ear, (2) to a triangular space in the vulva below the meatus urinarius, and (3) to part of the left ventricle of the heart at the origin of the aorta. See Generation, Female Organs of {External); Heart, Embryology ; Physiology, Neuro-Mus- cuLAR Mechanism {Internal Ear). Vestig^iai. — Of the nature of a relic; rudimentary; e.g. Meckel's diverticulum, the hyaloid artery, etc. Vesuvin.—A stain used in histological work ; Bismarck-brown or triamidobenzol. Vetch. See Toxicology {Lathyrism).