303 URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN tubules, with their sharply defined nuclei, are liable to be confused with leucocytes, and further evidence of their origin must be afforded by the simultaneous presence of renal casts. Other forms which admit of recognition are the conical or tailed cells of the pelvis of the kidney, but it must not be forgotten that cells of a similar character are also found in the neck of the bladder and in the prostatic portion of the urethra. Fragments of malignant growths are occasion- ally met with, especially when the growth is situated in the bladder and is of the villous variety. As a rule a diagnosis can only be made when a definite mass derived from the tumour is passed, as is not infrequently the case, but Delepine considers that the repeated appearance of cells of great size, with several nuclei or a single very large nucleus, should excite strong suspicion, especially if other symp- toms of malignant growth, such as vesical pain and hsematuria, are also present. Casts.—The forms and sizes of the objects known as urinary casts, as well as the characters of the epithelial cells which frequently adhere to them or of which they may almost entirely be made up, indicate their origin in the tubules of the kidneys. If further proof is needed it is afforded by the fact that structures apparently identical are frequently seen occupying the tubules in microscopical sections of diseased kidneys. The casts are of several different kinds which call for individual description, and it will be well to consider first those of the so-called hyaline variety. Hyaline casts are extremely transparent ob- jects, the refractive power of which differs so little from that of the urine in which they lie that their outlines are often ill-defined, and they may escape detection unless carefully looked for. In searching for them it is best to employ an oblique sub-stage illumination or a very small diaphragm, and in case of doubt staining agents, such as a solution of iodine with potas- sium iodide, may be added. Their chemical nature and mode of origin are still in doubt, as their reactions with chemical agents do not agree with those of any other known proteid material. This is true of fibrin, of which they were once supposed to consist, as well as of other proteids, but it is possible that the material of which they are formed has under- gone some change under the influence of the urine. It has been suggested by some that they have their origin in a secretion of the renal epithelium, whereas others hold that they con- sist of coagulated albumin which has undergone some hyaline change. The latter view gains support from the fact that their presence is in the great majority of cases associated with that of albumin in the urine. Hyaline casts are roughly cylindrical in form, of various lengths, and sometimes convoluted. Their ends may be rounded or as if broken across. Adherent to the surfaces of the casts may be small epithelial cells, such as line the renal tubules, a few red blood corpuscles or leucocytes, or crystals of calcium oxalate or amorphous urates. Such casts are met with in all forms of albu- minuria which are associated with disorders, whether primary or secondary, of the kidneys. They have occasionally been found in small numbers in cases in which the urine is albumin- free, and are usually present in the urine of jaundiced patients. The presence of adherent renal cells or blood corpuscles adds to the im- portance attaching to their occurrence, indicat- ing a grosser lesion of the kidneys. In acute nephritis such casts are often abundantly present, together with casts of other varieties. Amyloid casts are usually broader than the hyaline, they have rounded or broken ends, and sometimes show signs of segmentation. Although homogeneous in structure they are much less transparent than hyaline casts and often have a yellowish tint. With iodine they acquire a brown colour and they are stained pink by methyl violet, but not infrequently these " amyloid " reactions are very imperfectly obtained. The presence of casts of this char- acter affords no evidence of lardaceous disease of the kidneys; they are frequently met with in cases of chronic parenchymatous nephritis, very seldom in cases of granular kidney. The most probable view of their origin is that they are derived from epithelial casts, next to be described, and that the cells of which they were composed have become converted into a homogeneous waxy material, under the influence of the urine, during a somewhat prolonged sojourn in the renal tubules. Epithelial casts consist almost entirely of epithelial cells such as are met with in the renal tubules, and often present the appearance of a complete cast of the lining of the tubule. In all probability they usually contain a core of hyaline material, and this view receives support from the fact that one occasionally meets with examples of which one portion is covered with epithelial cells, whereas the remainder looks like a bare hyaline core. In the early stages of acute nephritis the individual epithelial cells are often very clearly defined, but in other instances they show signs of fusion which, when it reaches a more advanced degree, probably results in their conversion into casts of the amyloid variety. In chronic parenchymatous nephritis similar casts are met with, and as offering samples of the renal epithelium they afford valuable evidence of its condition, for the cells in the more advanced cases show signs of granular or fatty degeneration. Blood casts, composed of red blood corpuscles.