TRANSFUSION 103 There are several methods of introducing saline fluid into the circulation— (a) By injection into the rectum. (b) By injection into the loose subcutaneous tissue, e.g. of the axillary region. (c) By injection into the veins. (d) By injection into the arteries. The last of these methods seems to possess no advantages, and some obvious disadvantages, while in regard to the first and second, one must remember that absorption through the vessels of the rectum or subcutaneous tissue can only take place when the circulation is being fairly carried on in the part, whereas intravenous infusion of salines has sometimes a marvellous efl'ect in patients who are almost pulseless. The saline fluid most commonly used for infusion is a solution of 1 drachm of common salt in a pint of sterile water at a temperature of about 105° F. Some prefer a solution con- taining 50 grains of sodium chloride, 3 grains of potassium chloride, 25 grains of carbonate, and 25 grains of sulphate of sodium, with 2 or 3 grains of phosphate of soda, in a pint of water. It is very doubtful if this has any advantage over the simpler salt solution. The fluid is introduced with a glass syringe or funnel arrangement through a glass and rubber nozzle into the patient's vein (special instruments for the purpose have been devised, for example, by Spencer and Collin). The quantity introduced is from ^ a pint to 3 or 4 pints, depending on the condition of the patient and the amount of blood lost. The infusion must be discontinued should the patient show any distress, and, in any case, as soon as the normal pulse tension is regained. The operation must be done very slowly and cautiously, and with aseptic pre- cautions. In cases of haemorrhage it should only be used when the bleeding has been stopped. The procedure may require to be repeated. It is apt to be followed by a considerable, but transient, rise of temperature. The infusion of milk or of the blood of the lower animals has been tried. These methods are dangerous, and have been discontinued. Transillumination.—The passage of light through an organ or through the walls of a cavity, e.g. of the maxillary sinus as a means of diagnosis. See Larynx, Examination of (Transillumination); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation of (Acute Infiammation of Maxil- lary Sinus, Transillumination); Nose, Acessory Sinuses, Inflammation oy (Chronic Suppuration in Frontal Sinus, Transillumination). Transitional Epithelium. See Physiology, Tissues (Epithelium, Squamous). Transition Organism.—The inter- mediate stage in development when the new organism is neither an embryo nor a foetus (six weeks to two months), the neofcetus. See Em- bryology (Neofoetal Period). Transmigration.—The act of passing from one place to another; e.g. the wandering of white blood corpuscles from the blood stream into the tissues, or the passage of an ovum from one ovary into the opposite tube vid the uterine cavity (internal transmigration) or the peritoneal sac (external transmigration.) Transmission. — The communication of a thing (e.g. a disease) from one person or place to another; also, the handing on by heredity of characters from parent to child. See Epidemiology ; Heredity (Transmissibility of Acquired Characters). Transplantation.—The carrying of a part from one region or area of the body to another; grafting (e.g. of a piece of the cornea or skin). Transport. See First Aid (Means of Transport), Transposition.—A change in position, especially that in which the organs normally present on one side of the body are found on the opposite, or in which the viscera of the abdomen are displaced upwards into the thorax ; heterotaxy or situs inversus viscerum. See Heart, Congenital Malformations of the (Transposition of Aorta and Pulmonary Artery); Teratology (Heterotaxy). Transudation. — The passage of a liquid through a membrane, e.g. a vessel-wall, the liquid which has so passed being named a transudate. See Dropsy ; Inflammation. Transvaal. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts (South Africa). Transversal is.—The name given to the muscle and artery and fascia of the anterior abdominal wall, the neck, or other part, which has a transverse direction. Transverse.—Removing crosswise, e.g. a transverse pi-esentation, a shoulder - case or cross - birth. See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism (Transverse Lies). Trap. See Sewage and Drainage (Traps). Trapezium.—One of the bones of the carpus; also, a cross band of fibres near the lower border of the pons Varolii. Trapezius.—A superficial muscle of the back of the neck and thorax. See Spinal Accessory Nerve (Functions and Effects of Lesions of). Trapezoid.—A carpal bone, second bone of the second row articulating with the meta- carpal bone of the index finger.