UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE 368 through an unoccluded ostium and establish peritonitis. 5. Peritonitis may follow rupture of a pus- containing Fallopian tube. 6. Intestinal obstruction may follow the ad- hesion of a piece of intestine to the iiterus, or direct extension of the cancer into the rectum. 7. Hydroperitoneum and hydrothorax may arise from the presence of secondary nodules on the peritoneum or pleura. 8. Secondary deposits in the brain are rare, but they occasionally induce fatal coma, and sometimes attacks of acute mania. The only treatment available for cancer of the neck of the uterus is that adopted for cancer Ovary infiltrated with cancer. FlQ. 7.—Cancer of the cervix uteri implicating the ureter and bladder. (From the writer's book on Diseases of Women.) in other parts of the body, namely, thorough removal at the earliest possible moment; but, unfortunately, it is only practicable to carry this out in a very small proportion of patients. The first object in a radical operation for the relief of cancer in any part of the body is a wide removal of the infected part, and this is pre- vented in the case of the cervix by the proximity of the bladder, uterus, and rectum. When the patient comes early under observation, and especially when the cancer is limited to the cervical canal, the performance of vaginal hysterectomy is followed by satisfactory con- sequences immediate and remote ; but when the disease has overrun the cervix and implicates the vaginal wall, it is impossible to make a free removal of infected tissue without imperilling the integrity of the bladder and uterus, and thus anticipating some of the most distressing effects of the disease. Quite apart from the limitations which the anatomical environment imposes on surgical efforts in the treatment of this disease, there is, unfortunately, the insidious character of the disease itself, and only a small percentage of patients seek advice when there is an oppor- tunity of doing good by surgery. In recent years the mortality of vaginal hysterectomy of cancer of the cervix has reached the low point of 5 per cent, but the frequency and rapidity of recurrence has discouraged many surgeons. Now that the profession is awakening to the necessity of early diagnosis in this dreadful disease, and at the same time realising that the only hopeful cases are those where the operation is undertaken in the early stages, and that surgeons abstain from operating except in the promising cases, so will the results improve, and patients will be encouraged to seek surgical aid at the very outset. In the majority of cases where no radical operation is possible, much may be done to make the patient's life not only tolerable but even comfortable. In a very large proportion of cases the patients are able to keep about, look after their homes, and lead useful lives often for many months until renal complications and anaemia, the joint result of repeated bleeding and purulent discharge, so weaken them that they are compelled to keep abed. At this stage careful nursing renders them fairly comfortable : the patients should be kept scrupulously clean by daily douches of warm water tinged with permanganate of potash. When the discharge is offensive a daily douche of perchloride of mercury (1 in 5000) will rarely fail to correct it. Pain may be alleviated by the judicious vise of morphia administered subcutaneously. The constipating effects of this drug are best met by variations in diet, accompanied by ripe fruit and vegetables, aided by occasional enemata consisting of two to four drachms of turpentine, an ounce of castor oil, a small piece of soap, and a pint of warm water. In cases unsuitable for operation life is rarely prolonged beyond a year and a half. Many die within a few months from the time they come under observation. In order to emphasise the small proportion of cases of cancer of the uterus in which a radical operation can be carried out with success, the writer had a list prepared of fifty consecutive patients admitted into the Chelsea Hospital for Women, London, for the purpose of operation. The plan usually followed is to admit such patients with cancer which the junior officers think may prove suitable (the advanced cases are not admitted into the institution). The patient is then fxamined under an anaesthetic to ascertain the extent of the disease, and especially to determine if the cancer is limited to the uterus. The large proportion of rejec-