WRY-NECK OR TORTICOLLIS 560 suggestions or manifestions as to its exact nature.) Wry-Neck due to Vertehy'al Disease.—Of all the foregoing conditions the most important is tuberculous inflammation of the cervical verte- brae or of the joints in the highest region of the neck. {See Spine, Surgical Affections of (SpiTial Caries), vol. ix. p. 298.) The symptoms of tuberculous disease of the spine are not in- frequently misinterpreted and are ascribed to " rheumatism," but the deformity may be dis- tinguished from ordinary wry-neck by the fact that pressure upon the top of the head causes distress, and that even in a limited degree the patient is unable to move the neck or to shake or nod the head ; and that there have been for many weeks, or even months, complaints of obscure pains in the head, neck, or chest, the result of pressure upon the roots of the nerves passing out through the diseased region of the spine. In wry-neck due to disease of the verte- brae no movement is permitted except with apprehension and pain, whereas in the other case movements are free and painless within certain limits. To mistake cervical caries for common wry-neck may involve very serious consequences. Treatment of Wry-Neck.—For the treat- ment of wry-neck which is due to permanent shortening of the sterno-mastoid nothing short of a cutting operation can suffice, and the sooner that it is efficiently carried out the better. The treatment by drugs, electricity, or massage, can end in nothing but disappointment. Operation for Wry-Neck.—The child should be anaesthetised and placed upon an operat- ing table, or iipon a folded blanket laid upon a low chest of drawers or a narrow table. The shoulders should be slightly raised on a firm pillow, and, whilst the head is drawn to- wards the opposite side, a nurse should pull down the arm of the affected side so as to render the muscle tense and prominent. The head should be held and steadied by the chloro- formist, so that the assistant may have both his hands free. It is hardly necessary to say that the skin of the neck, and everything that is to come in contact with the wound, should be aseptic. Division of the sterno-mastoid may be per- formed either by subcutaneous tenotomy or by what is known as the open method. The subcutaneous method consists in making a puncture in the skin at the root of the neck, close to the side of the contracted tendon, and introducing a blunt-ended tenotomy knife through the puncture and beneath the band, which is then divided by a sort of sawing motion up towards the skin. Traction being made upon the head, the tendon yields in a definite and obvious manner. The movements of the knife are checked just before the skin is reached, the actual progress of the knife being estimated partly by the finger placed on the skin over the point of section. After the one piece of the muscle—the sternal origin, for instance — has been divided, and further traction is made on the head, the re- maining portion of the muscle is generally found to be in need of division, although it may not previously have appeared to be shortened. The clavicular head is then divided in a manner similar to the preceding, and generally through a separate skin-wound. In a small proportion of cases, however, only one portion of the sterno-mastoid may require section. The operation being finished, a small pad of lint is fixed over the punctures, the head being left in the old position until they are soundly healed. Subcutaneous tenotomy was introduced in the days when suppuration commonly followed the infliction of an open wound on account of septic micro-organisms having been allowed to con- taminate the freshly cut surfaces. The smaller the wound the less the chance of septic infec- tion. Division of the muscle through the smallest possible wound was, therefore, almost a necessity a few years ago. But the sub- cutaneous method had this great disadvantage, that when the knife was working out of sight and in a very dangerous area the surgeon could not know exactly what he was dividing. And so it came about that a large anterior or ex- ternal jugular was sometimes wounded, with an alarming, if not a fatal result. Walther states that whilst performing the subcutaneous opera- tion Robert cut the external jugular vein, and that Volkmann wounded the internal jugular. I also once had an alarming experience whilst operating by the subcutaneous method at The Children's Hospital a good many years ago, the child nearly dying either from entrance of air into a wounded vein, or from grave shock which was produced in some other manner. At any rate, there was so great a welling-up of blood that I had immediately to apply firm pressure over the spot and send the child back to bed with the tenotomy vmfinished. And it was with no little apprehension that I set about the com- pletion of the operation a few days later. How- ever, no further trouble ensued, and the child was in due course completely cured. The open operation has now almost entirely taken the place of the subcutaneous method. First of all the skin at the root of the neck is carefully' prepared and rendered aseptic. An incision, long enough to give free access to the deeper parts, is then made over the contracted muscle about a finger's breadth above the upper border of the clavicle, the superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia being divided layer by layer, and bleeding vessels being secured by clip-forceps. Then the origin of the muscle is reached, and its fibres are cut through until the