TOXICOLOGY 78 but, for the most part, they would be more correctly designated " toxalbumoses " ; that is, proteid substances which have been acted on by bacteria in such a way as to develop intensely poisonous properties. Toxalbumoses are un- stable, and their constitution is but little under- stood. Ptomaines—a later product of bacterial action—are basic substances which possess a definite chemical composition. A ptomaine may or may not be poisonous; many ptomaines are practically harmless. All these substances— toxalbumoses and ptomaines—when present in actively poisonous forms, are liable to lose their toxic properties as decomposition advances: a meat pie, for example, which caused severe poisoning in human beings, and which killed mice fed on it, after being kept a little longer became putrid, and at the same time lost its poisonous character, so that it could be eaten by mice with impunity. Poisonous bacterial products, though imstable, are sometimes very resistent of a high temperature—that of boiling water, for instance; so that cooking cannot be depended upon invariably to render the meat harmless. The same applies to micro-organisms and their spores that may be present in meat; the outermost layer of the meat may have its nocuous properties destroyed by boiling or roasting, but the central portion may never reach the requisite temperature. Salting and smoking do not, or may not, remove poisonous properties that are present in the meat; neither does the exposure of the meat to a very low temperature, as in an ice-safe, necessarily inhibit bacterial decomposition. It is not essential that meat should acquire a suspicious odour in order to become poisonous ; certain micro-organ- isms render meat dangerous without producing the ordinary accompaniments of decomposition. The kinds of meat which most commonly cause poisoning are : pig's flesh, veal, beef, various kinds of meat pies, potted meat, tinned meat, sausages, and brawn. Allantiasis or botulism are names given to sausage-poisoning, due to eating "German sausage," which consists of finely divided meat mixed with other substances, imperfectly cooked, and frequently formed into large masses. A bacterial decomposition product, endowed with special toxic properties, is not unfrequently formed, to which the name ptomatropine has been given on account of a certain resemblance between the symptoms it produces and those produced by atropine. The symptoms of allantiasis do not usually develop for from twelve to twenty-four hours after the poisonous sausage has been eaten. The patient has a foul tongue, with dryness in the throat and suppression of the salivary secretion, which causes the voice to be hoarse and the swallowing to be difficult or impos- sible ; there may be a dry laryngeal cough. Nausea and vomiting with diarrhoea, or perhaps obstinate constipation with colic, follow. The pulse is rapid, the pupils are dilated and re- actionless, and there may be ptosis and diplopia. AiTections of the special senses, as sounds in the ears and dizziness, are frequent. In fatal cases death occurs in four or five days; occasionally its occurrence is earlier. There are no character- istic post-mortem appearances. The treatment is to evacuate the bowels and stomach, if this has not previously been done spontaneously, and to give hypodermic injections of pilocarpine hydro- chlorate (one-third to half a grain), the patient being enveloped in blankets wrung out of hot water. Fish.—Some fish are inherently poisonous; they are mostly found in tropical waters ; others, such as mackerel, carp, barbel, and herrings, are liable to become poisonous ; mackerel and herrings are especially prone to develop poisonous properties after they are caught. Something depends on the treatment of the fish ; herrings, if they are not " gutted " immediately after they are removed from the water, quickly become unfit for food. Caviare, the roe of herrings and of other fish, dried cod-fish, preserved anchovies and sardines, have caused poisoning ; a stale red herring caused the death of a man from gastro- enteritis. Shell-fish excepted, mackerel produces the greatest number of cases of fish-poisoning in this country. The symptoms of fish-poisoning may be purely gastro-enteric, or they may be partially or entirely neurotic—swelling of the tongue and face, intense itching of the skin, coldness of the hands and feet, thirst, dyspnoea, and convulsions. Tinned salmon and sardines have caused fatal poisoning, the post-mortem appearances indicating the action of a most potent irritant; in one case the stomach and intestines were so intensely inflamed as to be almost gangrenous. Sometimes the mischief produced is of such a character as to indicate the action of micro-organisms rather than of a pre-formed poisonous substance. Shell-Fish, as mussels and oysters, may, during the lifetime of the fish, develop toxines which render them poisonous. This occurs if the fish are placed in stagnant water, especially if it is contaminated by decomposing organic matter; so that mussels obtained from docks, harbours, the mouths of rivers, or other places where there is a restricted tidal interchange, are liable to be poisonous ; indeed almost all the bad cases of mussel-poisoning are due to this cause. A mild form of mussel-poisoning is characterised by the appeai-ance of an urticarial or an exanthematous eruption on the body, often associated with oppression in the chest and difficulty of breathing ; these symptoms usually pass off" in a short time. In the severer forms there is gastro-enteritis, and in the most dangerous of all, paralysis. A man ate un- cooked a large quantity of mussels obtained from the bottom of a graving dock ; he became