TUBERCULOSIS 119 infection and channels of spread in the body and the relationships of human to bovine tuberculosis. Historical.—1. Tuberculous lesions were first supposed to be evidences of a weak form of inflammation, occurring in a weak or scrofulous subject, no specific cause being assigned. 2. It was noticed that if the disease began at one spot, generalised tuberculosis might follow. 3. Niemeyer and Virchow considered tliat the formation of the tubercle nodule was not a specific process, but that caseation occurred because the inflammation was of a low degree ; that the blood-supply was cut off by pressure of inflammatory products; that in the caseated material a ferment developed, and when the caseous material softened and broke into a blood-vessel, the ferment entered the blood and caused general tuberculosis. 4. Klencke in 1843 produced tuberculosis in rabbits by intravenous injection of tuberculous material, but the real significance of this was not recognised at the time, and by demonstrating the inoculability of tuberculosis in the lower animals, Villemin has the credit of being the first to show that the cause of the disease is a specific one. He took pieces of tuberculous material and successfully inoculated various animals, proving that the disease was infective (1865). 5. Koch and Baumgarteri demonstrated microscopically the organism which causes the disease, and Koch succeeded, after many failures, in cultivating it on artificial medium. Koch's announcement of his discovery was made public on 24th March 1882. His demonstration of the relationship of the bacillus to the disease was so complete that the facts were at once accepted by scientists throughout the world. He laid down with the greatest precision that there was but one form of the tubercle bacillus; that Perlsucht in cattle, pulmonary tuberculosis in man, and tuberculosis in domestic animals, were all caused by one and the same micro- organism. Since the bacillus became available in pure culture, experiments on animals have more and more decisively demonstrated its infective nature, and somewhat modified Koch's first conclusions. The proofs of the relationship of the bacillus to the disease may be stated as follows :— 1. The bacillus can be readily demonstrated in tuberculous lesions in man and in the lower animals. 2. It can be separated from such lesions and obtained in pure culture. 3. Inoculation of these pure cultures, and of subcultures from them, reproduces in susceptible animals the same disease, with macroscopic and microscopic lesions corresponding to those found in the natural disease. 4. From these experimental lesions the bacillus can be recovered in pure culture. 5. The chemical substances produced by the bacillus in cultivation and in the body are related. The Tubercle Bacillus {Bac. tuberculosis, Koch ; Syn. Mycobacterium tuberculosis).—The bacillus as ordinarily found in man is a short narrow rod of the length of one-quarter to one- half the diameter of a red blood corpuscle (1-5 to 3-5 n). The breadth {circ. 0-2 ju) is pretty constant, provided the same method of staining be used. The ends are rounded or pointed. The rods are not as a rule absolutely straight; they are commonly slightly curved or bent at an angle; sometimes they are slightly sinuous or spiral, and occasionally adjacent rods lie at an obtuse angle with each other. Fre- quently there is an appearance of " beading," so that the rod presents deeply stained thicker parts with intervening clear spots. These were formerly supposed to be of the nature of spores, but it is more probable that they are not, one of the most cogent arguments against this inter- pretation being that the tubercle bacillus can be killed by a temperature far below that necessary to destroy spores. Some authorities suppose that the appearance may be an "artefact," pro- duced in process of preparation of the micro- scopic film, but it occurs too constantly for this. Bulloch looks upon the clear spaces as de- generative in character. It must be remembered that many competent observers consider that spores are present in certain stages of the life-history of the bacillus. Occasionally the bacillus may fail to take the stain—for example, in some miliary lesions in the lung, lupus, and tuberculous disease of bone —but on inoculation of such tissue the disease may be reproduced. The numbers of well-formed bacilli present in a lesion or discharge may, roughly speaking, be taken as evidence of the activity of the process. The bovine bacillus is shorter than the human, seldom more than one-quarter the diameter of a human red blood corpuscle (2 fx) and averaging less. They are thick and straight. They stain evenly and deeply, and "beading" is usually absent. Avian tubercle bacilli are similar micro- scopically to the mammalian type, but present marked difference in culture and on experi- mental inoculation, so that many consider that they are of different species. Staining Methods.—The methods of staining the tubercle bacillus depend on the difficulty with which it receives the stain, and the tenacity with which it holds the stain when it has entered. Ehrlich has undoubtedly the credit for first pointing out these peculiar properties of the bacillus. It was found out at a very early stage that ordinary watery solutions of anilin dyes penetrated tubercle bacilli with extreme slowness and imperfectly. Ehrlich showed that by com- bining a basic anilin stain (gentian violet) with anilin watei', its penetrating power was increased.