THYROID GLAND, 18 MEDICAL SECTION feeding. Morphine is the most useful drug, and may be given by the mouth, or better by hypodermic injection. A quarter of a grain or more of morphine tartrate may be given once or twice a day with or without one-hundredth of a grain of atropine sulphate. In one of my recent cases each injection controlled the vomit- ing for some hours, but the patient was very nervous, and dreaded the injections so that a morphine suppository was used instead. Dr. Dreschfeld has found large doses of potassium citrate useful, but they had no result in the case just mentioned. Diarrhoea is most easily con- trolled by dilute sulphuric acid and laudanum. In cases in which the symptoms are acute, and especially if rapid wasting has taken place, a course of Weir Mitchell treatment, in which isolation, rest, and over-feeding are combined with massage and electricity, proves most bene- ficial. Electricity is viseful in many cases. The faradic current should be employed in the following manner:—Two electrodes about 4 ins. by 2 ins. are applied to the neck, one behind and the other over the thyroid gland in front, and kept in place by means of a strap on each side. The electrodes are connected with a dry- cell faradic battery, and enough current is turned on to produce a distinct prickling sensa- tion in the skin. The current may be applied for half an hour or an hour night and morning. The true place of surgical treatment for exophthalmic goitre is difficult to determine. We have seen that the symptoms are due to excessive secretion by the thyroid gland, so that removal of one lobe of the gland is quite a rational treatment. A considerable number of cases who have survived the operation have been greatly benefited by it. Unfortunately there is considerable risk in the operation itself. ■Some patients die just after the operation, either from shock or the effect of the anaesthetic, and in others severe toxic symptoms have developed soon afterwards from absorption of an excessive amount of secretion, which has either escaped into the wound from the cut surface of the gland, or has been squeezed out of the gland during the operation. At present there are but few cases in which an operation is advisable, and even then it should only be undertaken after explaining to the patient the risks which must be incurred, and at a time when no acute symp- toms are present. [On the theory that the symptoms of Graves' disease are due to over-activity of the thyroid a number of attempts have been made to pre- pare a curative antithyroid serum. Mobius's serum, obtained from sheep six weeks after extirpation of the thyroid, has received a fairly extensive trial in Germany, and seems to have acted beneficially in some cases. Rodagen, made from the milk of thyroidectomised goats, has also been used, and there are now on the market several analogous "anti-thyroid" pre- parations. Of these it may be said that they can at least do no harm, and that they may possibly be beneficial in some cases.] Acute Thyroiditis Causation.—Acute inflammation of the thy- roid gland is rare, and may occur as a primary disease or as the result of injury or secondary infection. Secondary thyroiditis may occur as a complication in rheumatic fever, influenza, enteric fever, and other acute infective diseases. Symptoms.—The onset of the disease may be rapid and the attack may be ushered in by a rigor. The temperature rapidly rises to 102° or 103° F. At the same time a sensation of fulness or even actual pain may be felt in the front of the neck. The whole gland, or it may be one lobe only, then becomes swollen. In a few severe cases the swelling is large enough to press on the trachea and oesophagus, and cause difficulty in breathing and in swallowing. The inflammation may subside in a few days, and be followed by complete resolution. In a few cases, however, suppuration or gangrene of the gland occurs instead. Treatment.—Rest in bed and a milk diet should be ordered while there is fever. The application of ice or leeches to the front of the neck or the use of belladonna fomentations gives relief to the pain. At the commencement of the attack five grains of calomel or blue pill may be given at night, followed by a saline aperient in the morning. Fifteen or twenty grains of sodium salicylate may be given three times a day. If suppuration occurs the abscess should be incised and drained. Goitre Goitre is a term in general use for all en- largements of the thyroid gland. As the en- largement may be due to several different causes there are several varieties of goitre. Varieties.—A slight temporary enlargement of the gland occurs in anjemic and in pregnant women, but it is not sufficiently great to be considered as a form of goitre. A general en- largement of the gland occurs in young adults, and may attain a considerable size. This is practically a hypertrophy of the gland, and is known as simple parenchymatous goitre. The endemic form of goitre may commence in a similar manner, but later secondary changes, such as multiple cystic degeneration and fibrosis, may occur, so that very large goitres of this class are seen, composed of varying proportions of glandular tissue, fibrous tissue and cysts, fibro-cystic goitre. Adenoma of the thyroid gland is another common form of goitre. These growths are prone to become cystic, and as a rule a single-cysted goitre is due to the presence of a cystic adenoma in one lobe of the gland. Exophthalmic goitre has already been described,