WARTS OR VERRUCJE 511 more often seen in children, and in them are generally multiple. In adults they are more often single. Common warts are more or less hemispherical in shape, or with a flattened top, especially on the palms. Their surface is ir- regular, rough, and, when of long standing, more or less dirty in colour. On the face, although they begin in the same way, they may become more elevated and wider at the top than at the base. The filiform warts of the eyelids and neck are well known. On the scalp they are digitate or cock's-comb-like. In this situation they may be single and last for years. A more uncommon localisation is the sole, giving rise to great pain, and unfitting the sufferer for work. Warts of the lips have been described, but in one case exhibited as such the condition was, in my opinion, inflammatory exfoliation of the lips (cheilitis exfoliativa). They are contagious from person to person, and auto-inoculable. Common warts are epidermal growths (in- fectious acanthomata, Unna), with an ac- companying elongation of the papillae. Epithelioma may occur as a complication, and cutaneous horns sometimes develop from warts. In acanthosis nigricans (keratosis nigricans), they are part of the clinical picture in some of the recorded cases. Treatment.—" Charms " for the cure of warts are well known to folk-lorists. There is no doubt that warts have disappeared after " in- cantations." This "suggestion cure" has led to the idea of an etiological nerve origin as opposed to the microbial view. But warts sometimes go spontaneously. For warts, various acids, glacial acetic, trich- loracetic, nitric, and also a saturated solution of chromic acid in water (this acid may form a dangerous compound with spirit); or alkalies, such as caustic potash, may be used. Care must be taken to prevent these remedies run- ning over on to the sound skin. Slicing the warts away with a scalpel and then touching the exposed parts with pure carbolic acid is another way. In obstinate cases of hard, long- standing warts of the hands curetting answers best. As to the painful plantar wart, Radcliffe- Crocker recommends electrolysis, by means of a stout, curved, flat surgical needle passed through the base. The digitate and filiform warts should be ligatured with fine silk. When radical measures are objected to, a salicylic acid plaster can be used to soften and remove the top layers, and then an aqueous chromic acid solution applied. Dirty and disfiguring appli- cations should be avoided as much as possible for the face. Among the internal remedies, arsenic and thuja occidentalis may be mentioned. Colrat of Lyons recommended sulphate of magnesia in doses sufficient to ensure two or three motions a day. This plan certainly answers in some cases. Verruca Plan^ Juveniles. — This is a variety of wart which deserves separate mention, especially from the clinical point of view. They are usually seen on the backs of the hands and on the face, but they may attack other parts of the body. Individually they are roundish, from a pin-point to a lentil in size, slightly raised above the level of the skin, flat, and from a dull reddish hue to a shade of yellow or brown. They are numerous, in some instances slowly increasing in numbers, in others coming out rapidly in crops. They are sometimes preceded, for some time, by a single flat wart (mother wart). In the case of a girl, aged 13, the backs of the hands and fingers were thickly covered with small flat warts. They had been present for nearly four years. There was a history of warts in adult members of the family, and latterly a lady friend of the child had also developed a few about the hands. In contrast with this progressive case, a more acute instance observed by Dr. Chalmers Watson may be briefly referred to. The patient, a boy, aged 13, had numerous flat warts about the face, some distinctly arranged in lines, as is not unusual. They had been present six to eight months, and had increased greatly in number after an attack of influenza. The boy had had warts on his hands for a year or more. The warts disappeared under treat- ment appropriate to the constipation from which the patient suffered. The case is re- corded and illustrated in the B^Ht. Jour, of Dermatology, May 1903. The small flat wart I have also seen in great numbers on the sides of the face of a man, in whom they appeared to have been spread by shaving. Verrucoe plance juveniles could not well be mistaken for lichen planus, especially on the face, where the latter disease is of extremely rare occurrence. Treatment.—Here, again, sulphate of mag- nesia should be tried. Arsenic is said to clear them off in a few weeks, and thyroid is also stated to have got rid of them. Locally, radical measures are out of place. Washing with soft soap has been recommended, as also various ointments (salicylic acid, resorcin, and so forth). Wiping the parts over with liq. carbonis deterg., sp. vini rect. pt. seq., is useful. In the case of the adult mentioned above, the warts disappeared after perseveringly applying a saturated solution of salicylic acid in alcohol. Verrucoe Seniles, Senile Warts, also called Seborrhoeic Warts.—These occur about the face, trunk, and arms in elderly and old people. They are usually of finger-nail size, raised, more or less round, greasy, and of a dirty brown or even black hue. On removal of the superficial portions, by scratching with the nail, the elongated papillae show up beneath.