WRY-NECK OR It is usual to state that the condition occurs in two forms, the congenital and the acquired, though, personally, I have never seen an instance of the former. That is to say, I have never met with a case of wry-neck in which it was affirmed that as soon as the infant made its entrance into the xvorld the medical attendant noted that its head and neck loere permanently twisted. It is quite possible, however, that if a foetus were tightly packed in the uterus with an insufficient amount of liquor amnii, and with its head rigidly bent over to one side, it might offer an example of congenital wry-neck. Such cases must be, at any rate, of very rare occur- rence. But it is not at all an uncommon thing for a nurse or a parent to call the doctor's attention to the fact, when the infant is two or three days old, that it holds its head towards one shoulder. And a year or two afterwards, if an operating surgeon were closely questioning the mother as to when the deformity was first noticed, it is quite likely that the mother would affirm that it was discovered "directly after birth," and the temptation to call it congenital might, in the circumstances, be almost irre- sistible. One frequently sees an infant a few days old persistently bending its head down to one shoulder, turning the face towards the other side, and showing by flinching or crying when the root of the neck is fingered that there is much tenderness there. The meaning of all this is that a sudden and violent movement of the head, as the child was being born, caused the sterno-mastoid muscle to be torn across; blood was poured out into the muscle-sheath; the neighbouring nerves were pressed upon, and the infant could not bear the part being fingered. In some cases the muscle tears across as the result of the medical attendant or midwife pulling upon the feet, but it may be met with in infants whose entrance into the world has been so easy that neither nurse nor midwife was called upon to help. In a considerable proportion of the cases the children have entered the world breech first; possibly there is a greater strain put upon the muscles in these circumstances. In fat - necked infants the tumour may pass unnoticed for days or weeks, but, as the neck grows, the lump can scarcely fail to attract the attention of the mother. The sequence of events is probably as follows: —The muscle is torn across by sudden strain, and a considerable effusion of blood and a local myositis ensue; interstitial granulation tissue is formed, and this is shortly converted into fibrous tissue, which, undergoing contraction, produces a permanent cicatricial contraction in the muscle. Time after time one learns on inquiry that the child with wry-neck had in its early infancy a tender swelling in the muscle which gradually TORTICOLLIS 559 became hard and painless. Not many years ago such timiours were thought to be evidence of congenital syphilis, but inspection of one by Dr. Frederick Taylor revealed their exact nature. A surgeon is never justified in assuming that because a tumour of the sterno-mastoid dis- appeai-ed when the child was being treated by mercury it was necessarily syphilitic. As a rule both parts of the muscle—the sternal and the clavicular—are implicated in the shortening, though sometimes only one is concerned. And it often happens that when only one part of the muscle apparently needs division, after the surgeon has cut it he finds that the remaining part also has to be severed. As a result of the permanent shortening of the muscle the mastoid process is drawn down towards the top of the sternum, so that the ear of the affected side approaches the shoulder, whilst the chin and face are turned towards the opposite side. And when the attempt is made to place the head and face in an improved position, the rigid muscle is brought out into strong relief, and the shoulder is drawn up to meet the ear. The shoulder of that side is permanently raised, and from the constant dragging of the shortened muscle the due development of that half of the head and face is checked, so that the parietal eminence, the half of the frontal bone, the malar bone, and that side of the lower jaw may be markedly smaller than they should be, whilst the ear and the commissure of the eyelids and of the lips may be dragged down- wards. A similar arrest of development may affect the sides of the vertebrse, so that a lateral curvature of the cervical column is produced, the concavity being directed to the affected side, with, in several cases, a secondary curvature in the opposite direction in the dorsal region of the spine. Torticollis Anterior.—In certain very rare in- stances symmetrical contraction follows rupture of both sterno-mastoid muscles, with the result that the chin is rigidly drawn down towards the top of the breast-bone. Both muscles being equally shortened the head cannot be inclined to either shoulder, nor the face turned to the right or the left, so the deformity cannot be called double wry-neck. A very suitable name for it, however, is torticollis anterior. Persistent deviation of the head and neck may also be the result of inflammation of the cervical glands; of a shortening of the sterno- mastoid following suppurative inflammation of that muscle or of the tissues near it; of con- traction of the scar following a severe burn of the neck ; of periostitis of the cervical vertebrae ; of tuberculous disease of the vertebrse them- selves, or of the synovial joints between the base of the skull and the first and second cervical vertebrae. (Hysterical contraction of a sterno- mastoid is unlikely to occur without other