309 URINE, BACTERIA IN is more likely to contain organisms from the urethra, being rejected. In the female it is always necessary to withdraw a specimen with a sterilised catheter, care being taken to avoid contamination of the instrument by the external genitals. Into the procedure necessary in those cases where it is of vital importance to exclude every possibility of contamination from the urethra, or where it is desirable to remove urine from one or other ureter, there is no need to enter here. In any case all cultural examina- tions should be made immediately. A very short delay in so doing is sufficient to vitiate any result. Cystitis.—The exact bacteriological examina- tion of the urine in cases of cystitis is of quite recent growth. The researches of Bumm, Clado, Albarran and Halle, Rovsing, Krogius, and more especially of Melchior, following rapidly on one another, served to prove that cystitis might be caused by a number of different organisms. A comparison of their work, however, shows that certain of the organisms in question, notably bacillus coli, had been described under several names, so that the total number of the different varieties com- monly found is much smaller than appeared at one time probable. It is true also that, even allowing for this, the results obtained varied considerably with the different observers. The reason for this latter circumstance is at once seen if the widely differing clinical fields from which their material was drawn are considered. Their investigations have been repeated by a very large number of other workers without much being added to our stock of knowledge on this point. The sum of all this work shows that, including all cases of cystitis in both sexes, the bacillus coli is the commonest organism found, and after that in turn the staphylococcus aureus and albus, proteus vulgaris, streptococcus pyo- genes, and the gonococcus. Less frequently the bacillus typhosus, the pneumococcus, and Fried- lander's bacillus may be present. Finally, a large number of other organisms, not otherwise pathogenic for man, have been described as occurring occasionally. Any of these bacteria may be present in pure culture, but two or three or even more varieties may be found in the same urine. It is im- portant to bear this in mind, lest, for example, the presence of the bacillus coli or one of the pyogenic cocci in a specimen of urine should lead to the gonococcus, or the tubercle bacillus, which may be associated with them, being overlooked. The attempts which have been made to as- sociate special organisms with different forms of cystitis have not stood the test of time. It is possible, of course, to classify the causes of cystitis according to the organism present, but the classification would give no clue to the char- acter or intensity of the inflammation in any given case. The reaction of the urine as freshly passed does vary, however, with the organism. In the majority of cases it is acid in corre- spondence with the preponderance of cases caused by the bacillus coli. In cystitis, due to the gonococcus or the tubercle bacillus, the urine is also acid. When the pyogenic cocci are present the urine presents usually a diminished acidity or may be faintly alkaline. In the presence of proteus vulgaris the reaction is strongly alkaline (ammoniacal), and the same is true in the case of some of the less frequently found organisms already mentioned. Very little is known of strictly anaerobic organisms as a cause of cystitis, but Albarran and Collet have described them as occurring in periurethral abscesses and ex- travasations of urine. Their presence is usually marked by a foul smell. All attempts to produce cystitis by the mere injection of organisms into the healthy bladder have failed except in those cases in which the proteus vulgaris was the one employed. The bacteria are gradually expelled, and after three or four days, as a rule, no trace of them can be found in the urine. It should be noted that not even bacteriuria can be produced in this way. If, however, retention of urine be produced, or some injury be done to the bladder, or a small stone be introduced, then the injection into the bladder of any of the usually found organisms will set up a cystitis, though retention or a like injury by themselves do not. This coincides with what is found in man under natural condi- tions. As we have seen, organisms must often reach the bladder from the kidney or through the urethra, but if the bladder be healthy and capable ef emptying itself no multiplication takes place. Between bacteriuria, in which bacteria alone are present as an abnormal constituent of the urine, and cystitis the writer does not think it is possible to draw any hard-and-fast line either clinically or pathologically. On centrifugalis- ing the urine, leucocytes and epithelial cells are always to be found in every bacteriuria, and a continuous series can be traced from such cases through all the stages up to the most severe purulent cases of cystitis. The healthy bladder with normal urine is a barrier against bacteri- uria, even as it is against cystitis. If this were not so bacteriuria would follow the passage of a catheter in a very large proportion of cases. The difference between cystitis and bacteriuria is merely one of degree, and depends partly on the virulence of the organism, partly on the resistance of the patient, modified as it may be by so many causes, local or general. In certain rare cases cystitis may be due to chemical irritants such as cantharides, and under such circumstances the urine may remain free from micro-organisms. In pyelitis, pyelo-nephritis, and ascending nephritis, the organisms found are those com- monly present in cystitis.