241 UKACHUS veloped by slow leakage of morbid secretion from an unobliterated canal. An umbilical calculus may attain the size of a pigeon's egg (Hahn). Spencer Wells, in an ovariotomy, found the urachus, though closed at both ends, open for the whole length of the abdominal incision, and filled with small urinary concretions. Urachal Fistula; TJnohliterated Urachal Canal. —The canal is often open when local malforma- tions exist. Freund observed this condition in a woman with uterus unicornis and masculine characteristics. Pearson of San Francisco de- scribes the case of a male child two years of age, robust and masculine, yet with no external organs; the urachus served as a urethra. Ex- treme distension of the foetal bladder does not necessarily force open the urachus; thus in Couvelaire's case the urachus was found intact. Urachal fistula, the result of patency of the canal, may be congenital or acquired. Congenital urachal fistula is seen at birth, or develops early in childhood ; under the latter circumstances it merges into the acquired variety. It may be associated with phimosis, with congenital stricture of the male urethra, and with an abnormal mucous fold closing the meatus in the female (Stierlin). But in at least fourteen cases, out of which twelve were males, no cause for the patency of the urachus could be found (Stadsfeldt). In some there were adjacent malformations, such as unusually high insertion of the ureters (Mikulicz). Symptoms and Diagnosis.—Escape of urine from the umbilicus betrays a congenital urachal fistula. Sometimes there is a deep, funnel- shaped orifice at the umbilicus ; more often the umbilical canal opens out the apex of a pro- tuberance on the navel made up of granulations. Inversion of the bladder through the umbilicus has been recorded (Gusserow). Simultaneous catheterism through the umbilicus and the urethra will settle the diagnosis. But the urachal canal may be too narrow to admit even a probe; in such a case milk, or a solution of starch, injected into the bladder through the urethra, will most probably escape out of the umbilicus (Freer). The only other embryonic :;anal opening into the umbilicus is the omphalo- mesenteric duct, but a patent Meckel's diverti- culum is very rare. Lexer, however, dissected out what he thought was a patent urachus in a boy aged one year and a half. On micro- scopical examination it proved to be a Meckel's diverticulum. Treatment.—In every case careful search must be made for the cause of the continued patency of the urachus, then that cause, stricture of the urethra, phimosis, etc., must be treated. Spontaneous closure of the urachus often follows an operation which insures normal micturition. When no cause can be discovered, yet some comphcation like cystitis exists, it must first be treated, then operative measures VOL. X may be advisable. In infants firm pressure from strapping has often caused permanent cure, and thus the disadvantages of an opera- tion-scar may be avoided. Caustics, closure by hare-lip pins, or even resection of the canal alone, are known to be unsatisfactory. The umbilicus must be dissected off by a circular incision, then the urachus is set free, and a small piece of the bladder around its inferior attachment is excised by a transverse incision. The wound is at once closed by suture. During the operation a catheter must be held in the bladder, and any wound of the peritoneum closed at once with fine silk. It is best to drain the lower angle of the abdominal wound with a strip of gauze. Unless the small piece of bladder which includes Wutz's valve is removed that valve may be forced, and a fistula will develop in the stump of the urachus. A ligature is apt to cut through the stump with- out obliterating the canal. This operation has given very good results (Delageniere, Lexer, Mikulicz). The abdominal wound must be carefully closed with sutures. Acquired urachal fistula signifies the forcing open of an imperfectly closed urachus in adult life or late in childhood. Wutz's valve is forced by pressure of urine, which enters the urachal canal and opens up its umbilical orifice. Among the causes of this form of fistula are stricture of the urethra, enlarged prostate, chronic cystitis, pressure of an ovarian cyst on the bladder (Cinti), and retention of urine from retroversion of a gravid uterus (Unterberger, Neugebauer, Drummond Robinson, and prob- ably Chopart's case). In Leveque's case, where a man aged eighty had passed urine through the umbilicus ever since he was fifty-five, there was neither stricture nor any other apparent cause for the fistula. Vesicle calculi may be associated with the fistula (Goldschmidt). In Paget of Leicester's case the calculus was ring- shaped, and had developed on a hair. It was extracted through the umbilicus. Acquired urachal fistula is a serious condition, for it nearly always implies disease of the lower urinary tract, and not rarely " surgical kidneys " as well. There is often mvich low iniiammation around the fistula, which then forms a sausage- shaped swelling (von Bramann). Diagnosis of acquired fistula is easy when simultaneous catheterism through the urethra and the umbilicus is practicable, or when a probe can be passed into the bladder from the umbilical orifice. But catheterism is not always possible. Freer's starch solution (see above, under "Congenital fistula") should be tried. Gall-stones and echinococci have been known to escape through the umbilicus, and discharge of pus and serum often precedes their exit. Um- bilical calculi made up of cotton and woollen fibres felted together with sebaceous matter may also set up free discharge. In all these 16