508 VULVA, DISEASES OF THE irritation of excessive secretions, though these may lead to pruritus. The treatment is similar to that of kraurosis. Kraurosis vulvce is an atrophic disease affect- ing first and principally the labia minora, and spreading thence to the vestibule, clitoris, and labia majora. The surface becomes very tender, and dyspareunia results. Further, the patient complains of unbearable irritation, which may come on at all times of the day, and is worse at night when the patient gets warm in bed. Inspection of the vulva shows that the surface of the affected parts is smooth, shiny, even glazed-looking; by degrees all folds and creases disappear, and the vaginal orifice becomes con- tracted until it will barely admit the tip of the finger. Here and there, and especially in the neighbourhood of the urethral meatus and in the situation of the hymen, small reddish patches are seen ; these are very sensitive to the touch. When the disease is advanced, the labia can no longer be recognised, and the clitoris and its prepuce almost disappear. The disease usually comes on after the age of forty, and is best de- scribed as a progressive atrophy of the vestibule and nymphse. Microscopically there is seen hypertrophy of the epidermis, and hyaline transformation of the outer portion of the corium, with entire absence of hair-follicles and sebaceous glands. In the sub-epithelial tissue there is sclerosis of elastic and muscular fibres, great development of fibrous tissue, and small cell infiltration, and small localised hcEmorrhagcs occur. The nerve- endings become compressed, and this probably accounts for the great irritation. Treatment.—In this condition, as in the pre- ceding, temporary relief may be afforded by sedative and cooling applications, such as evapo- rating lotions, glycerole of belladonna, or opium or cocaine ointment. A useful lotion is one composed of one ounce each of glycerine and dilute acetic acid, with 10 oz. of a 1 in 20 solution of carbolic acid. In more obstinate cases the affected parts may be painted over, under an anaesthetic, with a 20 per cent, solu- tion of carbolic acid in glycerine : the resulting sore is treated with some sedative ointment. In very severe and intractable cases the dis- eased area must be freely excised ; the cut margin of the skin is then sutured to the cut edge of the vaginal mucous membrane. Pruritus vulvce is a symptom which may be due to a variety of causes. These fall natur- ally into three groups :— (i.) Irritating discharges, (ii.) Diseases of the vulva, (iii.) Reflex irritation. Under the first heading are comprised con- ditions causing profuse leucorrhoea, and irritat- ing conditions of the urine, as in diabetes, cystitis, and vesico-vaginal fistula. In the second group we have the vulvitis and kraurosis already described, as well as infection of the pedicuhxs pubis, and congestion of the vulva due to varicose veins or hyperajmia. The latter is apt to come on during pregnancy, and also during menstruation, in which case the pruritus is periodic. Pruritus is also associated with masturbation ; but whether as cause or effect it is not always easy to decide. In the third group we find reflex disturbances arising in the rectum and bladder. The treatment of pruritus will depend on the causal condition ; and this should, therefore, be always carefully inquired into. V. Cysts and Tumours op the Vulva.—(a) Cysts.—These are found as mucous and sebaceous cysts; cysts of Bartholin's gland or duct; and hydrocele of the canal of Nuck. Hernia is in- cluded here for convenience. Mucous cysts are found on the inner surface of the labia minora. They are small and un- common, and ai'e treated by incision or excision. Sebaceous cysts resemble such cysts in other parts of the body. The small black spot marking the orifice of the duct shows their true character. They are liable to suppurate, and should be treated by excision. Cysts of the duct of Bartholin's gland are due to occlusion of the orifice of the duct; this is sometimes incomplete, and the swelling then varies in size according to the quantity of fluid present. This fluid is usually viscid, but is sometimes watery. In chronic cases the gland itself is involved in the cyst wall. The patient complains of fulness in the vulva, and pain or discomfort when walking, sitting, or during sexual intercourse. On inspection, a pyriform swelling with apex upwards is found in the lower or posterior portion of the labium majus ; and the orifice of the duct is nearly always red and unduly prominent. In cases of gonorrhceal or septic infection the contents of the cyst suppurate, resulting in a Bartholinian abscess. This presents the same symptoms and signs as a cyst; but pain is usually more acute, and the skin over it is commonly reddened. The position of the swelling distinguishes it from a hernia and from a hydrocele of the canal of Nuck, in both of which conditions the swelling starts in, and principally affects, the upper or anterior part of the labium in the neighbour- hood of the inguinal canal. The only other condition that can be mistaken for a Bartholinian cyst is hsematoma of the vulva; this is more diffused, doughy, attended with ecchymosis, and has not the pyriform shape characteristic of the cyst. Treatment consists in excision of the cyst. Its walls are usually well-defined, and it can gener- ally be enucleated entire from the suri-ounding structures without difficulty. A few deep sutures should be passed under the bed of the cyst, to check oozing; and the skin-margins should be brought accurately together. An