158 TUMOURS All angeiomata are congenital, or arise in the first few weeks after birth; it is instructive to watch a small red fleck, at first no larger than a split pea, slowly spread and then begin to stand above the level of the skin : a few months later it may form a raised oval pulsating lump, which may be red or blue, and at last become a tumour demanding some courage as well as skill on the part of the surgeon to deal with it. Occasionally a simple nsevus will be con- verted into a cavernous nsevus, and the central parts of the latter fuse and form a central space so that the tumour resembles a cyst with very vascular walls. Such have been called ntevoid cysts. Lymphangeiomata.—These are tumours com- posed of an abnormal formation of lymphatics. They bear the same relation to lymph vessels that angeiomata bear to the hsemic capillaries. This genus contains three species : 1. Lympha- tic nsevus. 2. Cavernous lymphangeioma. 3. Lymphatic cyst. The lymphatic nsevus is, as a rule, colourless, but as it contains hsemic capillaries it may be of a pale pink. In the tongue the lymphatic nsevus is sometimes of a faint yellow or serum colour. Sometimes a lymphatic nsevus will affect a tract of mucous membrane like that of the tongue and produce the condition known as macroglossia, or it may affect the lips and cause macrochelia. Cavernous lymphangeioma resembles in structure and distribution the cavernous ntevi, and differs from them only in containing lymph instead of blood. Lymphatic cysts have been described under a variety of names, and the most familiar examples are those known as " hydrocele of the neck." They appear as congenital translucent cystic swellings, and though most common in the neck, are also foimd in the axilla and on the anterior and posterior wall of the thorax. These cysts are filled with lymph and the walls are composed of very vascular ngevoid material. The most remarkable fact in connection with them is the great tendency they exhibit to shrivel and dis- appear. They are very prone to inflame, and this event generally precedes their disappearance. In some of the instances it has been recorded that " the cyst was burst by the child falling upon it," and the accident led to its cure. The proneness of lymphatic cysts to spontaneous cure explains their rarity after puberty; this is fortunate, for their treatment by surgical means is uncertain and often extremely dangerous. Endothelioma. — This is a rare species of tumour, which is supposed to arise from the inner walls of blood and lymph vessels. The tumours rarely attain a large size, but are excessively prone to degenerate, and they also exhibit malignant characters, which are dis- played more especially in the form of local recurrence. Endotheliomata have been described in rela- tion with the mucous membrane of the jaws (gum), palate, in the skin, especially in con- nection with moles and warts: also growing from the pleura. It is probable that many tumours described as epithelioma of the gums and palate, and some remarkable malignant tumours described as cystic disease of the jaws, were endo- theliomata. The peculiar tumours (often called sarcomata) of the parotid and occasionally of the sub- maxillary glands are probably of this nature, and it is known that lymphatics abound in these organs. The tumours themselves are remark- able for the variety of tissues they contain, as well as for their curious clinical features. It is also necessary to mention that there exist good grounds for the belief that tumours allied to the sarcomata also arise from the walls of blood-vessels, and in many respects behave like the endotheliomata. Myomata.—These are tumours composed of unstriped muscle tissue. They are met with exclusively in organs containing this tissue, e.g. the oesophagus, stomach, and bladder, but in these situations they are extremely rare. The common situation is the uterus, where they are known as fibroids. It was formerly supposed that these tumours were composed of fibrous tissue, until Virchow demonstrated that they consist mainly of unstriped muscle tissue. The fibroid or fibro-myoma may arise in any part of the uterus, but are more common in the body and fundus than in the neck of this organ. The tumours are always encapsuled; they vai-y very much in density, some are soft and gelatinous, others are as firm as cartilage, and some undergo calcification and resemble porous stone. That these are varieties of the same tumour is shown by the fact that the different kinds of fibroids may be found in the same uterus, and not infrequently the gelatin- ous, the firm, and the calcified tissues may be found in the same tumour. A uterus may contain one large fibroid or it may be occupied by ten or more. The writer has met with one remarkable uterus which contained one hundred and twenty fibroids; they varied in size from a mustard seed to a dove's egg. Clinical Characters.—Fibroids are only met with after puberty, and are extremely rare before the age of twenty-five ; from the thirtieth to the forty-fifth year they become very common, and it is probable that they never arise after the termination of menstruation. Fibroids are inimical to health and dangerous to life in a variety of ways : they cause under certain conditions profuse and even fatal bleed- ing ; they are apt to become infected and destroy life from septicaemia. Very rarely they become sarcomatous and disseminate. Very large tumours fill up the pelvis and interfere