URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 277 In such renal diseases as acute and chronic parenchymatous nephritis the output of phos- phates is often markedly diminished. In studying the variations in the excretion of that portion of the total phosphates which is endogenous, and derived from the metabolism of substances rich in phosphorus, such as nucleo- proteids and lecithin, it is important to exclude the greater fluctuations which result from differences in diet, and the evidence which is forthcoming upon this matter is not of very great clinical importance. In fevers there is a like diminution as compared with the output of nitrogen, although the total excretion may be above normal. In bone diseases, such as rickets and osteo- malacia, we might expect to find a conspicu- ously increased excretion of phosphates, but no such distinct effect is observed. However, in this connection it must be borne in mind that the intestine appears to be the main channel of the excretion of calcium phosphate, and it may be that to this is due the absence of any notice- ably increased output in the urine. Many observations have been made as to the phosphate excretion in cases of central nervous diseases, which affect structures rich in lecithin and might be expected to exert a distinct in- fluence, but the results have not been striking or uniform in character. In diabetes mellitus there is usually a markedly increased excretion of phosphates, and a condi- tion which has been called phosphatic diabetes is described in which, in association with the symptoms of diabetes, there is an excretion of large quantities of urine rich in phosphates. Much importance has been attached by Ziilzer, whose views are supported by the in- vestigations of Edlefsen, to the relative excretion of phosphoric acid and of nitrogen, as affording evidence of the share taken by the different tissues in the metabolic processes in any given relatively large excretion of phosphoric acid pointing to the breaking down of those tissues which are rich in phosphorus, in other words in nucleo-proteids and lecithin. The name " phosphaturia" is often loosely applied to the spontaneous deposition of earthy phosphates in the urine, a condition which affords no indication whatever of the amount of phosphate excreted but is merely the result of a lowered acidity. The passage of amphoteric or alkaline urine may be due to the presence of an excess of alkaline salts in the blood, either as a result of their administration by the mouth or as a pathological condition, or to the ammoniacal decomposition of the urine in the bladder or elsewhere. It is upon such causes, and not upon excessive secretion, that the deposition of earthy phosphates upon urinary calculi depends. The estimation of the phosphates in urine is carried out by titration with a standard solution of a uranium salt, after the addition of acetic acid and sodium acetate. Metals.—Under normal conditions, and upon an ordinary mixed diet, the salts of sodium are in excess of those of potassium in the proportion of about 5-3. The abundant presence of sodium salts in the food is largely responsible for this excess. A conspicuous diminution of the sodium excretion is observed in fevers, which diminution is chiefly referable to the retention of sodium chloride under such conditions. The administra- tion of salts of potassium is productive of an in- creased excretion of sodium, and Bunge's ex- planation of this fact has been already referred to in the section relating to chlorides. The variations in the excretion of calcium and magnesiiim have not as yet acquired any special clinical interest. The fact that the intestine is the main channel of their excretion deprives the results of urinary analyses of much of their im- portance, and perhaps explains to some extent the indefinite results of such analyses in rickets and osteomalacia. A markedly diminished ex- cretion of calcium has been observed in the course of pregnancy. Traces of iron are normally present in the urine, but the form in which it occurs is at present unknown. It is probably excreted as an organic compound. Whatever its nature, the iron-containing constituent is thrown down with the crystals of uric acid, in which the presence of this metal can readily be demon- strated, and more abundantly in those spontane- ously formed than in those precipitated by the addition of acids. Ammonium.—Seeing that ammonia is readily formed by the decomposition of urea, it is neces- sary that any observations on the quantity of ammonium salts in urine should be carried out upon quite fresh specimens. The total ammonia excreted by a healthy adult is some 0-7 gramme in the twenty-four hours. Some of this is de- rived from the food, drink, and even from the air inspired, but the greater part is a product of proteid metabolism. The administration of mineral acids to man and to flesh-eating animals increases the output of ammonia, which instead of undergoing a further change to urea serves to neutralise the free acid introduced, and so the loss of fixed alkalies, which would otherwise result, is avoided. With vegetivorous animals this is not the case, for some reason not clearly understood, and the acid introduced is by them excreted in combination with potassium and sodium. The excretion of ammonia is increased in fevers, and conspicuously so in diabetes mellitus under certain conditions. This increase, which may amount to as much as four to six grammes in the twenty-four hours, cannot be ascribed in any but small part to the diet rich in proteids which is usually taken by such patients, and is apparently due to the formation of aceto-acetic