476 VISCERAL PAIN be noted that the skin of the scrotum is never hypersesthetic, as its nerve supply is from the remote sacral nerves. This testicular tender- ness is often diagnostic in those obscure cases where one has some difficulty in deciding from the patient's account whether the pain is really due to renal calculus. Although the pain here described is most commonly associated with I'enal calculus, yet any other condition that gives rise to spasm of the muscle wall of the ureter will cause these symptoms. Thus, I have seen it associ- ated with a collection of pus in the pelvis of the kidney or ureter, and it may be present with a movable kidney. The Bladder.—The pain due to the bladder is not easy to localise. The functions of the bladder are so intimately associated with struc- tures that are supplied with sensory nerves (as the sphincters and urethra) that it is difficult to tell whether they may not be affected. I have seen intense backache felt over the top of the sacrum in retention of urine due to spasm of the sphincter in women at once relieved on emptying the bladder. In spasm of the bladder due to cystitis or due to a stone in the bladder, the pain is commonly referred above the pubis, or in the perineum, and in the male along the urethra to the end of the penis, and the per- ineum may be hypersesthetic. The sympathetic supply of the bladder is twofold, from the hypogastric plexus and from the third and fourth sacral nerves. The pain over the sacrum and above the pubis is probably due to the nerves associated with the hypogastric plexus, while the pain in the perineum and penis is due to the stimulation affecting the sacral nerves. The Uterus.—The symptoms connected with disease of this organ are also complicated by its association with structures (as the cervix and vagina) supplied by sensory spinal nerves. In scraping the uterus, for instance, local pain is felt in stretching the cervix, but the scraping of the interior of the uterus is painless. The pain in labour is characteristic of the pain due to the contraction of non-striped muscles. Its gradual onset, increasing in severity, lasting for a shorter or longer period at its fullest intensity, then its gradual relaxation, corresponds in character and duration to the pain felt in other hollow muscular organs. That this pain is usually supposed to be in the uterus is easy to understand, as the coincidence of the pain with the contraction of the uterus is readily demonstrated. But there are other points that lead one to a different conclusion. Thus the pain is often entirely limited to the back, about the top of the sacrum. This has hitherto been explained as being due to pressure of the child's head upon nerves, as the lumbar plexus, or to stretching of the cervix. But as pressure upon nerves gives rise to pain in the peripheral distribution of the nerves, and as the nerves of the lumbar plexus are not distributed in this region, that cannot account for the pain. Further, the same pain is felt in this region when the uterus is small, with no child's head to complicate matters, as during the after-pains, as it is when the uterus is large and extends high in the abdomen. The pain in labour is also felt across the abdomen, referred usually to the lower part, whether the uterus is full and large, containing a full-time child, or when it is small and situ- ated entirely in the pelvis. In a few cases I have seen extreme pain result from the entrance into the womb of water while the patient has been syringing the vagina. The intense pain over the lower part of the abdomen, induced evidently by spasm of the uterus, has been accompanied by great hyperesthesia, and such tenderness of the abdominal muscles that the condition resembled what one finds in acute peritonitis. On rare occasions I have found the pains in labour almost entirely referred to the upper part of the thigh. The Heart. — There are two very striking points in connection with the pain in heart affections: first, that hearts similarly diseased may exhibit a great difference in regard to the sensory symptoms. Thus, in cases of aortic disease, pain may never be present, while in other cases pain of the most intense description is a characteristic feature. In degeneration of the heart muscle and in disease of the coronary artery the same uncertainty in regard to the presence of sensory symptoms is found. The second point is that pain and the other sensory phenomena when present do not afford of them- selves a clue to the nature of the disease, as one finds a similarity of symptom in the most diverse forms of disease. The consideration of these points suggests that the pains may have a common origin, and so far as I have been able to reason out the subject, I am disposed to view them as being essentially due to muscular stimulation. In the great majority of cases with heart pain, the attacks come on when the weakened organ is exposed to a strain beyond its strength. Thus hill-climbing is a fruitful source of heart pain in all predisposed subjects. Vaso-motor contraction is another frequent cause, as when a susceptible patient is exposed suddenly to cold, as on going out of a warm house on a frosty morning. Vaso-motor contraction also causes the pain in the attacks of increased arterial pressure seen often in the elderly, the gouty, and the subjects of Bright's disease. The similarity of the attacks of pain in heart affections to the pain of other hollow muscular organs is also very striking. The pains are usually felt in two fields, namely, in the areas of distribution of sensory nerves whose roots are associated with the