340 UTERUS, DISPLACEMENTS OF THE when the bladdei' is full. It may also take place without distension of the bladder, as when a patient receives a fall on her sacrum. Inflammatory action behind, or in the cellular tissue in front of, the uterus, may draw it out of its place and fix it in retroversion ; while tumours in front may push it into the abdominal position. Physical Signs.—The vaginal portion of the cervix is low placed and directed downwards, or downwards and forwards. The vaginal walls are lax. Through the posterior fornix a body is felt, which on bimanual examination is found to be the corpus uteri. The fundus is directed towards the sacrum, the degree of retroversion being determined by the particular portion of the sacrum opposite which it is found. With the exception of congenital and senile cases the uterus is usually enlarged in a uniform manner and of soft consistence. In most instances the mobility of the organ can be made out by the examining finger, though in some the assistance of ansesthesia will be required. In retroversion the rigid body is extended, and in the same straight line with the cervix; while in retro- flexion an angle is felt on the posterior aspect of the uterus, generally at the junction of body and cervix. Symptoms.—Menorrhagia and leucorrhoea are marked symptoms, and are due to the accpm- panying metritis. When monorrhagia occurs during lactation the uterus will generally be found retroverted. Bearing down is frequently complained of, and may be attributed to the low position and increased size of the uterus. Pain in the back is a prominent symptom, and is due to the stretching of nerve filaments chiefly in the elongated utero-sacral ligaments. Difh- culty and pain in micturition and defsecation are also common symptoms. Conception may occur, and in many instances the pregnancy reaches full term. Incarceration sometimes takes place about the fourth month. Women who always abort may carry to term after the uterus has been replaced. Treatment.—The metritis and other associated inflammatory conditions must first be treated. Rest, tampons, the hot douche, and curettage will be found most serviceable for this purpose. After all tenderness has been removed the dis- placed organ must be replaced. This is accom- plished best of all by bimanual reposition, usually with the patient ansesthetised, or the uterus may be brought to the front with the sound, or by making the patient assume the genupectoral position and pushing the uterus forwards by a finger in the rectum. The retention of the uterus in anteversion is eff'ected by vaginal pessaries or by various operative procedures. The Hodge pessary, or some modification of it, is best suited for the purpose. A pessary acts by keeping the cervix towards the sacrum, and thus fulfilling the function of the utero-sacral ligaments. Many operations have been devised to retain the fundus permanently to the front. We will mention four of the more prominent. Vaginal fixation, by which the anterior surface of the corpus uteri is fixed in an incision made in the anterior vaginal wall, while it accomplishes its object, cannot be regarded with favour owing to the risk in subsequent pregnancy and labour, but in women past the child-bearing period it is quite a good method. Ventral fixation consists in fixing the body or fundus to the anterior abdominal wall. The risks to pregnancy are the same as those of vaginal fixation, though in a minor degree ; and the operation of necessity involves the opening of the peritoneal cavity. Shortening the round ligamerits by the Alexander- Adams method keeps the uterus in anteversion, but does not fix it, and therefore the fundus is not prevented from ascending during preg- nancy. It is performed extra-peritoneally, and is attended by practically no risks. Shortening the utero-sacral ligaments through the vagina, as recently planned by Bovee, promises well. Its aim, the restoration of the function of the utero-sacral ligaments, is correct in principle. If this can be attained the operation should, together with that of shortening the round ligaments, restore the normal position of a movable retroverted or retroflexed uterus. Fixed retroversion or retroflexion requires for its treatment the removal of the cause which produces it before replacement and retention are attempted. III. Inflammations of the Uterus Inflammation— Acute Metritis and Endometritis . 340 Chronic Metritis . . . .341 Chronic Endometritis . . . 343 Chronic Endocervicitis . . .344 Subinvolution ..... 346 superinvolution ..... 347 Acute Metritis and Endometritis.—Acute in- flammation of the uterus, when compared with the chronic form, is a comparatively rare disease. And while the latter is often confined to one layer of the uterine wall, in acute inflammation we generally find the peritoneum, the muscular tissue, and mucous lining all equally involved at the same time. Etiology.—It is most frequently met with as a result of septic infection following childbirth or abortion, the infection taking place at the placental site or from some laceration of the cervix. Septic infection may also result from the use of the uterine sound, tents, or intra- uterine pessaries, or follow operations on the uterus, such as the removal of a polypus or curetting of the endometrium. After septic infection, extension of a gonorrhoeal inflamma- tion from the vulva and vagina ranks second in importance as a cause of acute uterine