URETHEA, DISEASES OF 256 to gonococci, and that they penetrate the urethral mucous membrane without injuring it or causing irritation. The disadvantages are the instabihty of the substances which causes them to decompose on warming and even on exposure to light. Injections should be ordered as soon as the discharge is recognised. They should consist of a half per cent solution of protargol given thrice daily, the morning and mid-day injections being retained for ten to fifteen minutes, and the evening one for twenty to thirty minutes. These injections may be increased in strength to 3 per cent of protargol, and they are to be continued until the discharge is free from gono- cocci. The protargol is then to be replaced by an astringent injection, e.g. subnitrate of bis- muth, 10 grains; tincture of opium, 10 minims; tincture of catechu, 15 minims; distilled water to three ounces. Urotropin to the amount of 10 grains, three times a day, dissolved in half a pint of water, may be given throughout the disease, replacing the older treatment by copaiba and sandal-wood oil. Chronic gonorrhoea used to be called gleet, but the symptoms are now known to be associ- ated with a chronic inflammation of the anterior or posterior urethra. The morning drop at the urinary meatus is often the only symptom of chronic anterior urethritis, though the urethro- scope shows numerous localised patches of hyperaemia or erosion even as low as the bulbous portion of the canal, whilst the passage of a sound may demonstrate a stricture of large calibre. The treatment of chronic anterior urethritis consists in healing the erosions, curing the catarrh, and dilating the commencing stricture. Chronic postei'ior urethritis shows itself by the recurrence of the discharge after apparent cure without sufficient cause; by attacks of epididymitis long after the period of infection; by prostatic inflammation and spasm of the compressor urethrse muscle many months after the cessation of treatment; by pain of a vague and neuralgic character in the genito-urinary tract, and by sexual hypochondriasis, which is often so marked that Ricord is reported to have said jestingly he expected the retribution for his ill-spent life would be the peopling of his everlasting abode with importunate patients suffering from a gleet with this symptom. The treatment of posterior urethritis consists in reawakening an acute inflammation in the affected part in the hope that the thickened tissues may thus be restored to their natural condition. This is best effected by the local application of silver nitrate, sulphate of copper or thallin, the latter in a 2 per cent solution. The application must be applied locally and skilfully, neither in front of the compressor urethrae nor too far back, lest it enter the bladder. The nitrate of silver and sulphate of copper solutions vary in strength from 1 to 10 per cent, according to the tolerance of the patient. When the prostate is involved the patient should be placed recumbent. The meatus and glans penis are then cleansed with a solution of protargol, the anterior urethra is filled with a ^ to f per cent solution of cocain, after which from iive to ten ounces of protargol solution should be injected into the bladder to be afterwards passed voluntarily by the patient. The injection may be repeated three times a week unless there are symptoms of local in- flammation. Treatment in Women.—The patient should be kept in bed on a milk diet during the acute stage, the bowels being regulated by saline aperients. The genital organs at first should be irrigated frequently with warm solutions of boroglyceride (which is prepared by heating together in a water bath 2 parts of boric acid and 3 parts of glycerine) of the strength of a drachm to the pint. Injections may be used as soon as the acute symptoms have subsided. A 4 per cent solution of protargol: 1"5000 of biniodide of mercury or 1 '4000 of formalde- hyde form useful and efficient injections. They should be employed whilst the patient lies upon her back, and when mercurial injections have been used the vagina should afterwards be washed out with a warm salt solution, because in many women there is a tendency for a pool of solution to remain in the vagina so long as they lie on their backs, and from this pool an undesirable amount of absorption may take place. The vaginal douche, however, is only an accessory to the thorough application of a strong solution of protargol or of nitrate of silver to the whole of the aff'ected mucous membrane. This application is made by placing the patient in a semi-prone position, and using a duck-bill speculum. The mucous membrane is wiped clean, and the silver nitrate solution of the strength of 20 to 60 grains to the ounce—or of a 10 per cent solution of protargol—is applied with a swab. Especial attention is devoted to the urethra, Skene's glands (p. 252), the ducts of Bartholin, and the cervix uteri. The urethra and canal of the cervix are best treated by in- stillation of the solution: Skene's and Bartholin's glands by injection through a small syringe with a slender nozzle. A 5 to 10 per cent solution of ichthyol glycerine may be applied on pledgets of cotton-wool, which should be left in sitto during the intervals between the application of the germicidal solution. Curetting and douch- ing of the uterine cavity should only be em- ployed in the most advanced and chronic stages of the disease, lest the local inflammation set up by the operative measures should lead to the extension of the inflammation to the Fallopian tubes and ovaries. Tuberculosis of the Urethra.—Tuberculosis of the urethra is always secondary to infection