URETERO- 251 (formation of an opening between a ureter and the bladder); uretero-enterostomy (formation of a passage between a ureter and the intestine); ureterolith (calculus in the ureter); ureteropyosis (suppuration in the ureter), ureterorrhagia (haemorrhage from a ureter), ureterorrhaphy (suture of the ureter), ureterostomy (formation of a ureteric fistula), and uretero-vaginal (be- longing to the ureter and the vagina). Ureterotomy.—Incision of the ureter, e.g. in stone in the kidney and ureter. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Calculus, Treatment); Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Operations). Urethane.—Ethyl carbamate (CjHjO. CO.NH2), a hypnotic drug which may be given in doses of 20 to 40 grains. See Heart, Myo- cardium AND Endocardium {Treatment, Sleep- lessness). Urethra, Diseases of. Introduction . . . . . .251 Anatomy— Male Urethra 251 Female Urethra .... 252 Abnormalities ..... 252 Hypospadias . . . . .252 Epispadias . . . . .252 Inflammation— Causes ...... 253 Symptoms ..... 253 Treatment ..... 253 GONORRHCEA ...... 253 Pathology ..... 253 Coiirse and Symptoms— In Men ..... 254 In Women .... 255 Complications ..... 255 Sequelce ...... 255 Treatment— In Men 255 In Women .... 256 Tuberculosis 256 Stricture— Varieties ...... 257 Symptoms . . . . .257 SequelcB ...... 257 Diagnosis . . . . .257 Treatment . . . . .258 Instrumental . . . .258 Operative ..... 259 Rupture ...... 260 Prolapse 261 Tumours 261 Calculi 261 Foreign Bodies . . . . .262 See also Aseptic Treatment of Wounds {Urethral Operations); Catheters, Uses and Dangers of; Cystoscope; Electricity {Use in Stricture of Urethra); Fractures {Pelvis); GoNORRH(EAL INFECTION {Urethra); Micturi- tion ; Prostate Gland ; Pyuria ; Rectum, Dis- eases OF {Rectal Symptoms due to Urethral Dis- eases) ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Scrotal Fistula, Causes); Urine, Bacteria in {Modes of Infection). Introduction. — The urethra or duct of the bladder differs both anatomically and physio- logically in the male and female. It is more complex in the male, because it is the seminal channel, whilst in the female its only function is to discharge urine. The male urethra, there- fore, is subject to a much greater number of pathological conditions than that of the female. Anatomy.—The Male Urethra measures 8 to 9 inches in length, and extends from the neck of the bladder to the urinary meatus. It is a continuous tube of mucous membrane, which is divided for descriptive purposes into the pro- static, membranous, and spongy or bulbous portions, but for the practical purposes of treat- ment into anterior and posterior parts, the anterior portion lying in front of the compressor urethrte, the posterior within and behind this muscle. The anterior urethra, therefore, ex- tends from the meatus to the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, whilst the posterior urethra includes the membranous and prostatic portions. In a normal adult the posterior urethra begins at a point over 5 inches and under 7 inches from the meatus, for it is at this depth that an instriunent is grasped by the compressor urethrse when it is being passed along the urethra. The urethra is a potential tube, for its walls are nearly in apposition, except during the passage of urine and semen. Its mucous membrane exhibits a number of pouches—the lacunae of Morgagni—which are more numerous in the upper than in the lower wall; they are lined with cylindrical epithelium, and their orifices are directed towards the meatus. A blind pouch protected by a fold of mucous membrane—the valve of Gu^rin—lies just within the meatus in the upper wall of the fossa navicularis, and a surgeon always intro- duces a curved catheter into the urethra, with the point directed towards the floor of the canal in order to avoid this pouch. The ducts of Cowper's glands open upon the floor of the spongy portion of the urethra close to the membranous part. The openings are usually bilateral, and at the same level, but one duct sometimes opens in advance of the other, and occasionally they unite to form a single orifice. The membranous portion of the urethra is of great surgical importance, and, with the excep- tion of the urinary meatus, it is the narrowest part of the urethra. It extends from the apex of the prostate to the bulb of the corpus spongi- osum, and lies between the two layers of the triangular ligament, passing beneath the arch of the pubes, from which it is separated by the anterior fibres of the compressor ui-ethrse, and