204 TYPHUS FEVER extent their action may be admitted. But typhus often appears in times of comparative prosperity, and overcrowding by itself seems a quite sufiicient cause. Again, if half-starved persons lived under favourable sanitary condi- tions there is no reason to suppose they would contract the disease. As regards age, it has been said that adults are most apt to take the fever, but this is merely because typhus in children is iisually mild, and frequently un- recognised ; sex exercises no influence. As to climate, the disease is most common in temperate regions. Season has considerable influence, the fever being most common in winter and early spring, the cold causing windows to be shut and thus diminishing the ventilation. Mental and physical fatigue and ill-health may also be regarded as secondary predisposing causes. Dissemination.—Typhus fever is directly contagious from person to person, and in the vast majority of cases the disease is spread in that manner. Anyone who is in close contact with the sick, a nurse especially, is liable to take it. The poison is apparently carried by the exhalations from the patient, and is no doubt inhaled by the victim. If sufficient attention, however, is paid to the ventilation of the room the risk is reduced to a minimum. Indeed, the germ of typhus would seem to be particularly susceptible to fresh air. In any case the " striking distance" of the disease is an exceedingly short one, the fever in this respect differing markedly from such an infection as small-pox. Absolute contact, or at least entering a small room with no ventilation in which the patient is lying, seems to be necessary for infection. In the last outbreak in Edin- burgh it was found that even in crowded and insanitary tenements, only those persons who were on intimate terms with the sufferers, and who were in the habit of entering their apart- ments, contracted the disease. Others, who were not on familiar terms with them, escaped even though the doors of their rooms opened on the same stuffy and unventilated landing. It has been said that prolonged exposure to the poison, even in well-ventilated wards, increases the risk of infection. This may well be the case, but is more probably due to increasing fatigue and failure of health on the part of the attendants exposed rather than, as has been suggested, to a gradual concentration of the poison in their systems. That infection may be retained for long in fomites there is no possible doubt, and those who have to handle the clothes and bedding of the sick, such as laundry-women and public- health officials, often contract the fever. In- fection seems also to persist long in old houses that have not been thoroughly disinfected or properly aired. Incubation Period.—^As a rule this would appear to be about twelve days. In two cases of the writer's, in which there was only one possible exposure, it was exactly thirteen. But shorter incubations are undoubtedly possible. Murchison regards the limits as from a few hours to twenty-one days. The longest incuba- tion in the writer's experience was one of seventeen days at least. Invasion Period.—This may be said to last from the first symptom of the patient until the temperature reaches the acme, which is usually on the third or fourth day of the fever, and until the appearance of the rash. The onset of typhus is usually abrupt, the patient being nearly always able to mention definitely the day, and sometimes even the hour at which he first felt ill. The most prominent symptoms are a very marked and persistent feeling of chilliness, causing the sufferer to sit wrapped np in front of the fire, severe headache, pains in the back and limbs, and vomiting. Oc- casionally there may be actual rigors, and in young children convulsions often occur. The temperatui-e rises, in some cases rapidly, but as a rule slowly and steadily, till by the fourth day of the disease it has attained the acme, usually a point between 102° and 104°. The appetite fails, and the tongue is at first covered with a thin, close-set white fur, which gradually dries and turns yellowish or brown as the disease progresses. Insomnia is common, and even at this eai'ly stage the clouding of the intellect, which is such a marked feature of the fever, is frequently present. The patient can seldom keep on his feet beyond the third day of the disease, and takes early to his bed. The Period of Advance.—On the fourth or fifth day of the fever the characteristic rash makes its appearance. It consists of small pink spots, a little smaller if anything than the spots of enteric fever. At first they are distinctly raised above the skin, but this is only in the first few hours of their existence. At first, like the enteric spots, they fade on pressure, but afterwards become stained into the skin and persist even if pressed. As the disease pro- gresses they become darker and brownish in colour, and they do not as a rule show much sign of fading before the eleventh day. About that time the rash loses, in many cases, its distinctness; and sometimes all traces of it are gone by the time the crisis is finished. Oc- casionally a mottled yellowish staining persists. In addition to the spots on the skin there is often, indeed usually, an appearance also of similar spots seen dimly as it were through the skin, the so-called subcuticular mottling, seen as a rule best on the flanks. Occasionally this is the only appearance of eruption shown by the patient, and it is quite diagnostic. Lastly, in severe cases true hfemorrhages occur into the skin, appearing as purpuric spots usually small in size, and resembling the marks left by fleabites, except that they lack the central point.