469 VISCERAL PAIN from the viscera were referred pains, by the demonstrable fact that pressure on the testicle, as well as the pain in inflammation of that organ, called forth a direct pain. One day, while tapping a hydrocele, I laid hold of the testicle and touched the organ very lightly with the end of the canula. The patient im- mediately called out that it hart, and referred the pain unerringly to the site touched. Shortly after I was demonstrating this symptom in another case of supposed hydrocele, where, however, the stimulation evoked no sensation whatever, and I concluded that this could not be a case of hydrocele. I subsequently operated on the patient, and found a small omenta hernia lying in a sac distended with fluid. What I stimulated in this case by the canula was the inside of the hernial sac, whose insensitiveness was therefore in striking contrast to the ex- tremely sensitive testicle. The explanation is to be found in the fact that a branch of the genito-crural nerve is distributed to the testicle and its coverings. As the tunica vaginalis is in reality of the same origin and nature as the peritoneum, this is the only instance in the body of a serous membrane being supplied by a sensory spinal nerve. I do not think it would be straining the argument to state that the difference between the sensibility of the testicle and other viscera lies in the fact that the testi- cular covering alone is supplied by a spinal sensory nerve. A pain of a different character and situation can sometimes be demonstrated on applying pressure to the testicle. If we take a patient with a long pendant testicle and apply pressure to the organ, the individual is sometimes cogni- sant of two pains, one at the point of pressure and another situated in the groin. In people with short cords it is not always easy to dis- tinguish between the two pains, but with careful observation on an intelligent individual the dis- tinction can be made out. This pain in the groin is evidently a referred pain. It is some- what similar in situation and in character to the aching one finds in some cases of varicocele. It is also felt very severely in orchitis. It is possible that pressure on the kidney and ovary may elicit a similar referred pain, but I have not had the opportunity of observing with sufficient exactness the nature of these pains on account of the confusion arising from the stimu- lation affecting the nerves of the external body wall. VI. The Sensory Supply op the Orifices of THE Body.—A difficulty arises in investigating the orifices of the body. The sensibility of mucous membranes appears to be distinctly limited to the areas supplied by spinal sensory nerves. Beyond the limits of the distribution of the spinal sensory nerves the sensation of pain when evoked is referred to some part of the body wall. VII. Clinical Evidence of the Referred Nature of the Pain.—Confirmatory evidence of the refeiTed character of the pain in visceral disease is shown in the distribution of the area of the pain in certain affections and in the presence of other symptoms associated with the pain, as hyperfesthesia of the external body wall. (a) The Radiation of Pain.—If we consider the area in which pain is felt in certain forms of angina pectoris, we shall find that only by viewing the pain as referred can a suitable explanation be arrived at. Many patients com- plain of the pain in angina pectoris as starting over the prsecordium. The pain, increasing in severity, passes outwards towards the left axilla, and strikes down the left arm, usually on the inner surface of the upper arm and ulnar border of the forearm. In some cases the pain is almost entirely limited to the arm. The area of the external body wall here described is one supplied by a series of spinal nerves whose spinal roots are contiguous, i.e. the fourth, third, second, and first dorsal nerves. The pain does not radiate up the chest as high as the clavicle, for the skin over the clavicle and on the chest as low as the second rib is supplied by the third and fourth cervical nerves. The radiation of the pain in renal calculus affords a similarly striking evidence of the re- ferred character of the pain. The pain in this complaint frequently begins in the back in the lumbar region, and passes round to the front, slanting downwards over the lower part of the abdomen into the testicle. Because the ureter runs in a somewhat similar direction for a short distance, it has been assumed that the pain was due to the stone scratching along that tube. But the course here described corresponds to the distribution of the twelfth dorsal nerve, and evidence of a hypersesthetic condition of the tissues supplied by this nerve can often be demonstrated. A branch of the genito-crural nerve from the first or second lumbar nerve supplies the tunica vaginalis, and hence the extension of the referred pain to the testicle. (6) The Distribution of the Hyperesthesia.— A still more striking evidence of the referred character of the pain is to be found in an exaltation of sensibility of the tissues of the external body wall in the area where pain is felt. This hypersesthesia or hyperalgesia is not present in all cases. When it does occur it corresponds in area with the situation of the pain. If we take the instances of heart pain or the pain of renal colic given above, we find most convincing evidence of the referred character of the pain. Thus in a patient suffering from disease of the aortic, mitral, and tricuspid valves, the pain was first felt in the outer part of the left chest. This pain was followed by a tenderness of the skin which showed cutaneous hypersesthesia well marked in the area shaded