TRADES, DANGEROUS 89 and fresh lemon juice. Theoretically it is supposed that they convert the cliloride of lead in the alimentary canal into the sulphate, but while this is a less soluble compound than the chloride, it is not so insoluble as to be free from risk. Therapeutic.—For lead colic warmth to the abdomen; the administration, in the absence of severe sickness, of a mild purgative, e.g. Epsom salts or castor oil; a warm bath may be given. If pain is not quickly relieved, a hypodermic injection of morphia may be necessary. When colic is more continuous and diffused over the abdomen, I have found monosulphite of soda in ten-grain doses thrice daily quickly relieve the pain. Olive-oil in tablespoonful doses relieves pain if it can be borne. If the bowels are not relieved, enemata must be administered. When there is repeated vomiting an effervescing bromide and belladonna mixture is worthy of a trial. Of the drugs given with the object of eliminating lead from the system, iodide of potassium is the most reliable. It must in the more acute forms of plumbism be given with caution, for experience confirms the statement made many years ago by Melsens, that potassium iodide is capable of dissolving out lead which has been deposited in the tissues, and of inducing symptoms of fresh poisoning. For lead paralysis massage, electricity applied either directly to the limbs or by means of alternating currents in an electric bath, also the administration of potas- sium iodide and nux vomica, or the hypodermic injection of liquor strychnite may be tried. Where there is marked anaemia and loss of strength syrup of the iodide of iron and bone- marrow tablets are often beneficial. For saturnine encephalopathy pilocarpine, admin- istered hypodermically, or a disc placed upon the tongue of the patient, also nitrite of amyl inhalations, or saline transfusion, are well worthy of a trial. Mercury Until within recent years mirrors were silvered by means of quicksilver. The use of this metal was the cause of a considerable amount of poisoning in those who followed the trade. Since the introduction of the new method by means of silver nitrate and tartaric acid mirror-makers no longer incur the risks of former days. In the manufacture of scientific instruments of precision, such as barometers, thermometers, etc., quicksilver is still largely employed. Men who follow this avocation occasionally get poisoned, so too do felt-hat makers. It is found that the felt out of which hats are made can be more readily manipulated, and that it lies better, if it has been passed through a solution of nitrate of mercury. The danger from using this salt is less when the felt is wet than after it has become dry, for the particles of the mercuric salt are in this form inhaled. Should a workman get a cut on his finger when manipulating the wet goods, the wound is apt to become painful and irritable. The introduction of American machinery, e.g. the Blake machine, into the manufacture of boots and shoes has, owing to the presence of a trough filled with quicksilver in the upper part of the machine in order to allow a revolving arm to move easily upon a joint, been followed by signs of mercurial poisoning. Mercury volatilises at a very low temperature, so that in the overheated and close rooms of a boot factory lit up on a winter's night by numerous jets of gas, of which there is always one on each machine, there is abund- ance of opportunity for the escape into the workroom of the metallic vapour. Until the California mines were opened most of the mercury used in our own country came from Almaden in Spain. The mining of quicksilver is a most unhealthy occupation, but newer methods of getting the metal and an improved system of ventilation have materially improved the lot of quicksilver miners. Formerly the conditions in the Spanish mines were so bad that the work had to be undertaken by gangs of convicts, but so unhealthy was the occupa- tion and so wanting in personal cleanliness were the men, that quicksilver-mining, although slower in its operation, became just as certain a means of shortening life as the execution of a death sentence by a quicker method. The Californian miners have not suffered like the Spanish. There is in some people a peculiar idiosyncrasy to mercury and its compounds. I have a medical friend who is severely purged with one grain of calomel, and a short time ago one dose of two grains of calomel administered by me to rather a pale girl was followed by intense salivation, swollen and painful gums, and fetid breath for several days. Mercury is readily absorbed through the skin, hence this forms a useful channel for introducing, by means of inunction, the oleates of the metal. Symptomatology.—The symptoms of mercurial poisoning may be acute, subacute, or chronic. Individual susceptibility to mercury has to be remembered. The most common symptoms are a disagreeable taste in the mouth, fetid breath, nausea, and vomiting, excessive flow of saliva, and ulceration of the gums with pallor of the face. Persons suffering from antemia and Bright's disease are readily influenced by mercury. Workers in trades in which quick- silver or compounds of mercury are used do not suffer severely from the mouth conditions just mentioned, but they are not altogether exempted, for they are found to be cachectic, and to possess also a fetid breath, their teeth are loose, and the margins of the gums ulcerated. In addition they are the subjects of muscular tremor, which, usually commencing in the tongue and lips.