URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 274 Concentrated urine, such as that passed during fevers, is usually abnormally acid, and a high degree of acidity favours the deposition of iirates and the separation of crystalline uric acid, but the excretion of alkaline urine is of more importance from a clinical point of view. Alkalinity may either be due to the presence of an excess of fixed alkali or to the formation of ammonium carbonate from the decomposition of urea. The passage of urine which is alkaline from fixed alkali has no clinical importance, unless the effect of the administration of alka- line hydrates, carbonates or salts of vegetable acids, can be excluded. Apart from such causes, the persistent excretion of alkaline urine may have its origin in angemic conditions, mal- nutrition, and other debilitated states, and especially those in which the nervous system is affected. This symptom is usually removed by tonic treatment ratlier than by the administra- tion of mineral acids. On account of the pre- cipitation of the earthy phosphates this condi- tion is often inaccurately spoken of as phospha- turia. Ammoniacal urine, which may be recog- nised by the blueing of moistened red litmus paper held above the surface of the liquid as well as by its odour, is only of clinical import- ance when it is passed as such. It then indi- cates infection of the urinary tract and decom- position occurring in the bladder or elsewhere. Such urines are usually rich in mucus-like substance, and deposit crystals of triple phosphate. Turbidity.—Normal urine is clear and trans- parent, but on standing it deposits a slight cloud, the so-called nubecula, which is well seen in the apex of a conical glass. Under morbid conditions the urine may be turbid when passed or it may become so on cooling, in the latter case from the separation of amorphous urates. The commonest cause of turbidity of the urine as passed is the precipitation of earthy phos- phates which occurs when the liquid is rendered alkaline, and which is not infrequently observed during the alkaline tide which follows a meal or as the result of ammoniacal decomposition. A common variety of minor turbidity results from the presence of excess of mucus-like substance; the most extreme degree of opacity results from the abundant presence of finely divided fat in the condition known as chyluria. Odour.—The faint odour of normal urine is familiar to all and is characteristic, as also is the oifensive smell of urine which is imder- going ammoniacal decomposition. When a com- munication exists between the bladder and bowel the urine may have a faecal odour, and under certain conditions, which will be referred to later, it may emit sulphuretted hydrogen in quantities sufficient to be recognised by the nose. In diabetes and some other conditions the presence of acetone may impart a character- istic odour to the urine. The effect of eating asparagus has been ascribed by Nencki to the presence of methyl- mercaptan. The odour of copaiba is easily recognised, as also the smell of violets given off by the urine of patients taking turpentine. Colour.—The normal yellow colour of urine is apt to be greatly modified under many morbid conditions. Such changes are in part due to alterations in the relative amounts of what may be called the true urinary pigments, viz. urochrome, urobilin, viroerythrin and hgemato- pophyrin, all of which may be present, at least in traces, in the urine of healthy individuals, and in part to the presence of other colouring matters which are not normally present in the urine. The presence of abundance of urobilin imparts a rich orange colour, and very large quantities may give a brown tint. Uroerythrin gives a redder orange colour, such as is so often exhibited by the urine of patients with febrile disorders or with organic diseases of the liver. A peculiar orange colour is seen when bilirubin is present in small amount, but, owing to the admixture of biliverdin, urine containing bile often has a greenish-brown tint. The administration of santonin or of chry- sophanic acid, which is contained in rhubarb and senna, causes an intensification of the yellow colour, which is changed to pink by the addition of alkalies. Dark brown urines are not uncommon. The commonest causes of this colour are the ad- mixture of bile-pigments, or of blood-pigment in the form of methsemoglobin. Urines rich in indican, which is itself colourless, often have a dark brown colour which is ascribed to higher oxidation products of indol. In carboluria the urine has a brown colour with a tinge of green, due to the oxidation of hydroquinone, and a similar aromatic oxidation product causes the dark brown colour seen in the rare condition known as alkaptonuria. In melanuria the urine as it darkens passes through a brown stage, and mention must be made of the brown colour of the urine in some cases of pernicious anaemia, which is usually ascribed to urobilin, but is probably not entirely due to the abimdance of that pigment present. Pink or red urines most commonly owe their tint to an admixture of blood or of free oxy- hsemoglobin. A port - wine tint is usually exhibited in hsematoporphyrinuria, and rosani- line and some other aniline derivatives given as drugs or contained in sweets may impart a pink colour to the urine. Special mention should be made of the eosin-like pigment which is some- times present in sweetmeats, which renders the urine pink with a bright green fluorescence. Black urines are usually extreme examples of one of the above anomalies. In melanuria, alkaptonuria, and in extreme cases of carboluria the urine becomes black in time, and in some