580 X-RAYS Finsen light to see that the pressure upon the diseased area is sufficient to express the blood; the use of ice as a compressing medium has the advantage of aiding the expression of blood by its chilling effect. The length of the exposure will be governed by the particular lamp selected, but it should be sufficient to produce a reaction of slight erythema with some smarting and tingling. The cases of lupus for which the light is particularly suitable are those in which the patches are small and well defined, and in positions such as over bony prominences where the necessary pressure can be exerted. As a result of repeated exposures the granulomatous tissue of lupus has its vitality' destroyed and undergoes degeneration ; any bacilli present are killed. The writer has treated cases in which there was a lupus patch on each side of the face, the one side with the Rontgen rays, and the other side with the Finsen light, and he has always found that the improvement was more rapid and general on the side treated by the rays. The following is a case in which the light treatment had a very rapid effect. Case : Lupus of four years' duration affecting the right ala of the nose, and consisting of a small, punched- out patch about a quarter of an inch in depth; eleven exposures of two and a half minutes each to a large condenser spark lamp with a rock-salt compresser sufficed to bring about a cure. To assist in the production of a reaction applications of pyrogallol, acid nitrate of mercury, or iodine may be tried. In the case of lupus erythematosus the Finsen light appears to be often of more service than the Rontgen rays. In a case of well-marked lupus erythematosus of two years' duration which failed to yield to X-ray treatment, the writer has observed distinct improvement follow the application of the Finsen light. When the necessary pressure can be borne the light can also be used for rodent ulcer, and Dr. Finsen of Copenhagen had many successes with this treatment. The light is also of service in the treatment of superficial cancerous nodules. In a case of Mr. Cotterill's of multiple scirrhus (exhibited at the Edinburgh Medico-Chirurgical Society, 7th May 1902) ultra violet light was employed by the author with excellent effect to the cancerous nodules, which rapidly disappeared under its use. High Frequency Currents Though these currents have been known for about a dozen years under the name of Tesla or d'Arsonval, they have only recently become prominent in practical medicine. Introduced first by Tesla and Elihu Thomson, they owe to d'Arsonval their physiological and therapeutical importance. These currents differ principally from those developed by an alternating current dynamo or an induction coil in the fact that the electromotive force or pressure is exceedingly high, and the alterations or reversals (frequency) inconceivably rapid. A good induction coil may develop an electromotive force or difference of potential of 50,000 or more volts, and if pro- vided with a Wehnelt break the number of its interruptions may reach 1000 per second, but the electromotive force of the high frequency currents may reach a million or more volts, and the frequency may attain many millions per second. This frequency is occasioned by the oscillating character of the discharge of the Leyden jars; the jar is first charged by the induction coil or static machine, and when the potential has been sufficiently raised it dis- charges across the spark gap, and this discharge is of an oscillatory nature. Rushes or surgings of current occur first in one direction and then in another with a frequency of alternation quite unapproachable by any mechanical means. Mode op Production of the High Frequency Currents An induction coil or a static machine may be used from charging the two Leyden jars; the former is the best and most reliable arrangement, the output from the latter, unless very large and very rapidly rotated {see Gaiffe's machine, p. 566), being in- sufficient to keep the jars fully charged. The two inner coatings of the Leyden jars (Fig. 24) are con- nected to the secondary terminals ^^^^ 24.-High frequency apparatus. of the induction schaii. coil, and the spark discharge may be allowed to occur either between two especially supplied balls enclosed in a box to deaden the noise and shade the light, or between two balls attached to the ordinary spark electrodes of the coil. The outer coatings of the jars are attached one to each end of a solenoid of thick copper wire. This is all the apparatus that is absolutely necessary, but the effects will be very much improved if the resonator of Oudin be added. Dr. Oudin's resonator (Fig. 25) consists of some two hundred feet of copper wire wound round a large framework of insulating material. When a proper length of the wire of the resonator is placed in parallel with the solenoid, the former, to use an analogy, acts the part of the sounding board of a musical instrument, and vibrates in unison with the solenoid so as to greatly rein- force the electromotive force. When the two are in proper accord, the upper turns and the