VESICUL^ SEMINALES 451 the inflammation priapism and other evidences of excitement of the sexual centre are often present; but as the disease progresses these generally disappear. There is often a great throbbing pain in the perineum or rectum, increased if the patient sits or walks, and partially relieved if he lies down, especially on his abdomen or sides. Pain is often complained of in the sacro-iliac region. There is sometimes tenderness in the suprapubic area, corresponding to the side on which the vesicle is situated, and in very severe cases there may be a localised peritonitis at this part. The bladder functions are generally disturbed, especially during the early stages of the inflammation, the symptoms being frequent and painful micturition, together oftentimes with evidences of difficulty or re- tention. The painful symptoms increase as the bladder distends, and are felt most acutely at the end of the penis at the close of the act of micturition, after which a brief period of relief may follow. Defecation is frequently painful; the urethral discharge is lessened, and may disappear entirely. When the disease is on the increase, as indicated by the unabated continu- ance of fever, the urine voided is usually clear or nearly so. Then as the fever drops and the acute pain decreases, the urine may be found to be loaded with pus, caused by a natural dis- charge along the ejaculatory duct. This puru- lent condition of the urine continues for some time, until the sac is pretty well drained. Should the patient have in convalescence an involuntary emission, as sometimes happens, the ejaculated mass is apt to be tinged more or less with blood, and the act is accompanied with a sensation of pain. The diagnosis of acute seminal vesiculitis is made by rectal examination alone. The normal prostate can be distinctly marked out, and its limits defined, although it is usually somewhat tender and often a little swollen; but beyond the prostate, occupying the whole bladder base, is a hard convex resistant tender area, extend- ing upwards beyond the reach of the examining finger. In its early stages, swelling may be confined to a vesicle which can easily then be made out as a pyriform tumour with its thick end upwards ; but soon this vesicular character- istic becomes lost in the larger " perivesicular " inflammation which follows. The diseases which simulate seminal vesicu- litis, and are indeed usually mistaken for it, are the acute varieties of prostatitis and inflamma- tion of the neck of the bladder. Fuller says that stricture, peritonitis, acute appendicitis, acute epididymitis, acute pyelitis, kidney colic, and acute inflammation appertaining to the rectum may also be mistaken for it. T7'eat7nent.—RQ&t in bed, the patient lying flat on his back, is a most important requisite in the treatment of this condition. The testicle should be supported with a Baer's triangle (described in section on " Scrotum and Diseases OP Testicle ") even although the epididymis is not tender. Lai'ge poultices or hot fomentations may be applied over the suprapubic or perineal areas, or ice may be similarly applied. Opiates should be administered to control the par- oxysmal pain, and leeches to the perineum are often useful. Careful attention should be paid to the bowels, and the rectum kept empty by enemata. After the pus begins to discharge itself freely through the ejaculatory duct, poultices may be omitted. If, while the pus is discharging, urethral and vesical symptoms become annoying, balsamics may be given. Neither urethral injection nor instrumentation, nor vesicular stripping is allowable. The pro- gress of the affection may be followed by occasional careful rectal examination. Resolu- tion generally takes from three weeks to a month, during which time a patient should be confined to bed. In case suppuration should occur outside the vesicle, resulting in abscess formation, or an intravesicular abscess should fail to discharge itself per vias naturales, a peri- neal incision should be made after the manner described below, and drainage established. Subacute and Chronic Vesiculitis. — These varieties of vesiculitis may be dealt with to- gether. The former is usually of the nature of a simple inflammation, whilst the latter is most often due to gonorrhoea. Simple inflammations such as may follow the passage of a catheter or sound along a healthy urethra, or may result from simple injuries, vesical calculus, or prostatic hypertrophy, may extend from the urethra to the seminal vesicle. The vesicle becomes moderately swollen, and its contents semi-purulent. Its walls, however, are but slightly involved, and it is very rare that the perivesicular tissues are involved. The inflammatory process generally stops at the vesicle, but occasionally extends to the epididy- mis, setting up a light grade inflammation there which renders the part extremely sensitive, but which is not usually productive of much scrotal swelling. Chronic vesiculitis is usually gonorrhoeal. The common form of gonorrhoeal invasion, and the one more to be dreaded owing to the lesion it leaves, is that which progresses slowly along the ejaculatory duct and into the vesicle, causing many functional disturbances, but com- paratively little acute direct pain. Under the influence of this chronic gonorrhoeal process the epithelium lining the part of the genital tract involved loses largely its columnar qualities, and becomes hard and pavement-like, and the subserous structures grow hard and sclerosed by interstitial proliferation. The lining mem- brane of the ejaculatory ducts may be altered by a chronic gonorrhoeal process, but no stricture of their canals results. The interstitial changes oftentimes affect the tissue throughout the