517 WATER accustomed to its use. Sewage-polluted water has frequently caused outbreaks, often with choleraic symptoms. In Lincoln, in 1891, an epidemic of diarrhoea occurred, limited to persons drinking water from the river Witham. The water was turbid and had an offensive smell when heated, and contained much organic matter. Many other outbreaks of a similar character are recorded. Epidemics of dysentery have been traced to the use of water polluted with decomposing animal matter. Goitre is believed to be caused by some con- stituent found in the waters of certain districts, but the evidence with reference to the nature of the goitre-producing substance is very con- flicting. The most convincing proof of goitre being produced by the drinking water is the evidence given before a French Commission, to the eff"ect that in the village of Bozel, in 1848, there was a population of 1472, of whom 900 were goitrous, whilst at St. Bon, a neighbouring- village with a different water-supply, there was not a single case. When the water from St. Bon was carried to Bozel goitre decreased so rapidly that in 1864 there were only 39 persons affected. Whatever the special constituent, it appears to be most common in the water from the magnesian limestone formation. Plurabism is frequently caused by the con- tinued use of waters containing lead. This metal is very rarely found as a constituent of natural waters, but many very soft waters act energetically on lead pipes, cisterns, etc. Certain hard waters containing little or no calcium carbonate have also an action upon lead. Water by contact with peat takes up a minute amount of acid, believed to be produced by a micro-organism growing on the peat, and such acid waters have a marked plumbo-solvent action. Plumbism has been very prevalent in the West Riding of Yorkshire. "The amount of lead dissolved depends upon the character of the water, the time during which it is in contact with the metal, the temperature, pressure, and possibly upon other factors of which we as yet know but little. The eff"ects produced by the small amount of lead dissolved are rarely so serious as to cause death, or even the severe colic or paralysis characteristic of lead-poisoning (or even the blue line on the gums), and for this reason the injurious results of the long-continued use of waters so polluted are only gradually receiving recognition. Amongst the eff"ects produced are a state of listlessness leading to melancholia, depression, and actual insanity, pallor and debility, constipation and indigestion, paralysis, colic, gout, kidney disease, blindness, etc. Still-births increase, and the children of lead-poisoned parents are rickety and ill- developed." ^ There is no doubt that persons vary in susceptibility to the action of this ' Water and Water Supplies, p. 139. London: Retman, Limited. cumulative poison. One-tenth of a grain per gallon has been known to produce ill effects. An "active" water which has been allowed to stand in lead service-pipes during the night may contain 1^ grains or even more per gallon. By filtering an " active" water through beds of chalk or limestone the acid may be neutralised and its plumbo-solvent action more or less com- pletely destroyed. Zinc is occasionally found as a natural con- stituent of water. The soft waters which act upon lead will also dissolve zinc from the surface of galvanised iron. A water may take up as much as 3 or 4 grains of zinc carbonate per gallon by its action on a long galvanised service main. There is reason to believe that the use of such a water may cause obstinate consti- pation, especially in children, but beyond this no ill effect appears to follow even from its habitual use. Enteric or typhoid fever is undoubtedly due in a large proportion of cases to the use of polluted drinking water. So large a number of outbreaks have been attributed to this cause that it is difficult to make a selection. These outbreaks may be divided into two classes: those in which specific pollution of the water was proved, and those in which this proof was not forthcoming. The latter class is by far the more common. As illustrating the first class the following instances may be cited, as they also show some of the various ways in which a water-supply may become polluted. In 1874 over 2000 cases of enteric fever occurred in Over Darwen (Lanes). It was found that a person suffering from this fever resided in a house, the drain from which was defective at a point where it crossed a leaking water-main. It was demonstrated by experiments that this sewage was sucked into the main freely and regularly. Within a short period of the specific pollution occurring about one-tenth of the population had contracted the disease. In 1882 an epidemic occurred in Bangor, 540 persons out of a population of 10,000 being attacked. It was proved that the stream supplying water to the town had been polluted by the discharges from an enteric fever patient. About this time the filter beds were distvirbed by the bursting of a main, and a fortnight afterwards the out- break commenced. The Caterham and Redhill epidemic in 1879 was traced to the defilement of a conduit by the stool of a workman who had contracted a mild form of the disease. " The outbreak took place simultaneously in Caterham and Redhill, exactly fourteen days after the water-supply had been befouled in this manner." In 1884 an outbreak occurred at Beverley (Yorks). The drainage from the East Riding County Lunatic Asylum, in which there had been cases of enteric fever, was discharged over a field adjoining the Water Company's works. Certain defects were found in the well, and