TRIONAL AND TETRONAL 109 Trional and Tetronal.—Diethyl- sulfone-methvl-ethyl-methane. It is a hypnotic and is used in the same class of cases as sulphonal. Its action is somewhat quicker than that of i sulphonal. Dose—10-.30 grs. Tetroxal is closely allied to trional and is similar in action. Dose—10-20 grs. Both are best given in cachet and followed by a drink of hot fluid. Like sulphonal they may produce hsematoporphy- rinui'ia. Triorchidy. — The anomalous state in ; which three instead of two testicles are present; there is usually some doubt whether the super- [ numerary gland is really testicular in nature. i TriOXypurin.—Uric acid. See Uric Acid {Chemical Characters). Tripara. — A woman who has passed i through or is passing through her third con- finement ; one who has been pregnant thi-ice. Tripe. See Invalid Feeding {Meats, Tripe, 2fethods o f Preparing). Triphaiangy.—The structural anomaly in which a digit which has normally two phalanges has three {e.g. a thumb or great toe with three phalanges); hyperphalangy is not exactly synonymous, for it includes the cases in which a digit has more than three phalanges {e.g. the index finger with four phalanges). Triphenamine. — A mixture of sali- cylate and acetate of phenocoU with phenocoll itself ; it is used in rheumatism. Triphenin.—A homologue of phenacetin, used in the same maladies and in similar doses. Tripier's Amputation.—A method of amputating the foot, resembling Chopart's but differing in that part of the os calcis (the part below the sustentaculum tali) is removed whereas by Chopart's method the whole os calcis is left. Triple.—Threefold, as triple phosphates (phosphates of ammonium and magnesium), triple monsters (the very rare teratological type in which three fcstuses are fused together), etc. Triplets.— Three children bom at one time by the same mother; the occurrence is rare, about once in seven thousand pregnancies ; they may be uniovular, binovular, or triovular; one of the foetuses is not uncommonly an acardiac. See Pregxaxct, Multiple. Triplopia.—-A form of disturbed vision in which three images of a single body are seen. Tripod Foetus.—A double monster in which one fcKtus is represented only by a limb attached to the pelvis of the autosite ; the result is an ischiomelus or a pygomelus; Dos Santos was the best-known instance of this tera- tological type, and was called the "human tripod." See Teratology {Parasitic Twins). Triradiate.—Radiating in three direc- tions, e.g. the pelvis in marked cases of osteo- malacia or malacosteon. Trismus.—Lockjaw, especially the form which occurs in the new-bom infant (trismus neonatorum) from infection of the umbilicus. See New-borx Infaxt {Tetanus Neonatorum); Spasm {From Prritation of Sensory Xerves, Hysterical) ; Teeth {Alveolar Abscess, Sequelas). Tristitia.— Melancholy as distinguished from tristemania or melancholia. TritiCUm.—Triticum repens or dog-grass is used as a diuretic and bladder-sedative in cystitis in the form of the extractum tritici liquidum (dose, 1 to 6 fl. dr.); it is official in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia but not in the British. See also Agroptrum. Trituration.—The process of reduction to powder by rubbing ; a substance so reduced. Trocar or TrOChar. See Aspirator, Uses of. Trochanter.—A process or projection (Gr. Tpo^o';, a wheel or anything that runs round), especially the two projections (trochanter major and trochanter minor) on the upper end of the i shaft of the femur below the neck. See HiP- ' Joint, Diseases of {Diagnosis of Hip-Disease). 1 Trochiscus or Troche.—A lozenge, ! especially one containing some drug, such as j tannic acid (Trochiscus Acidi Tannici) or catechu (T. catechu) or morphine (T. Morphinse). See Prescribing {By Mucous Meinbranes, Trochisci and Pastilles). Trochlea.— A gi-ooved articular surface ' {e.g. the trochlea of the lower end of the femur or of the upper surface of the astragalus) or a fibrous pulley {e.g. the trochlea of the upper margin of the orbit) (Gr. Tpo-)^L\ia, a pulley). Trochlear or Trochlearis.—Of the nature of a pulley or belonging to the trochlea i of the orbit or astragalus; e.g. the trochlear muscle, or nerve, or the musculus trochlearis. Trochlear paralysis is paralysis of the fourth cranial nerve and of the superior oblique muscle of the eyeball. TrOChOCephaly.—An anomalous shape of the head, a round-head (Gr. rpo-xp';, a round ball or cake). Trommer'S Test. See Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Glucose, Tests for). Tromomania.—t)eliriuin tremens (Gr. rpo/JLiw, I tremble).