324 UTERUS, MALFORMATIONS OF THE well developed as a general rule. Longitudinal septa are compatible with the performance of genital functions, menstruation, conception, and pregnancy. Atresia is a bar to conception ; but menstruation may occur, although its products are necessarily retained. (c) Unilateral Atresia.—In cases of double litems and vagina coalescence may fail to take place not only longitudinally, but also termin- ally, so that one vagina may run down by the side of the other as a blind sac. Hence, while one-half of the uterus and vagina may appear, clinically, to be normal, retention of menstrual products may occur in the other half. Similarly in cases of double uterus with a single vagina, one-half of the uterus may have no opening into Fro. 4.—Uterus didelphys. the vagina; and if this half of the uterus men- struates, as usually occurs, its products will be retained. III. Malformations by Excess of Develop- ment.—Hermaphrodism means the development of both male and female generative organs in the same subject, and occurs in some of the lower animals. The presence of both ovary and testis is necessary in order that a case may be regarded as one of true hermaphrodism, and this condition has not been demonstated in the human species. Psevdo-hermaphrodism means the development in the same subject of male and female accessory genital glands, including in this term everything except ovary and testis. Pseudo-hermaphrodism is found in the human species, and is of two principal types :— Gynandria, in which the subject is a female and possesses ovaries, but has also accessory oi-gans resembling the penis and scrotum of the male. Androgyna, in which the subject is a male and possesses testicles, but has also the accessory organs of a female, such as vagina, uterus, and Fallopian tubes. The penis may be (mdeveloped, resembling a clitoris; and the two halves of the scrotum may fail to unite, resembling labia majora. It is often very difficult, and in some cases impossible, to say whether an individual is male or female; for nothing but a micro- scopical examination of the genital gland, to determine whether it is an ovary or a testis, will decide the point. As a matter of fact, most cases of pseudo-hermaphrodism are really males, and these we are not here concerned with. In gynandra the clitoris is large, like a small penis, and the labia majora fuse in the middle line, re- .- sembling the scrotum. The resem- blance is all the more striking if the ovaries are herniated into the labia majora. In such a case the vagina, which is generally small, opens into the urethra at the root of the clitoris like a hypospadiac male ; the uterus may be fairly well developed. A typical case of this malformation was the now historical one of Madeline le Fort. Hypertrophy of the clitoris may occur independently of pseudo- hermaphrodism, and it may be diffi- cult to distinguish this condition from a benign new growth. Hypertrophy of the Labia Minora. —These are minor degrees of en- largement which are in no sense congenital, and which are due in some cases to masturbation. Elon- gation may, however, be excessive, as is typically seen in the Bush- women of South Africa, giving rise to the con- dition known as the Hottentot apron. Congenital elongation of the cervix affects the vaginal portion, which may attain a length of 2 to 3 inches, and project through the vulvar orifice. This condition is seldom observed till puberty, so that it is difficult to say whether it is always present from the time of birth, or whether it is incidental to the general enlarge- ment of the pelvic organs that takes place at puberty. Accessory Ostia Tuba;.—The Fallopian tube is sometimes found with two or even three fimbriated openings. The condition has no clinical importance. A third or accessory ovary has been described, and some writers state that this is a common occurrence. "A careful consideration of the evidence makes it clear that small pedunculated