UTERUS, DISPLACEMENTS OF THE 329 cei-vix forwards—Retroversion; (2) Round an imaginary antero-posterior axis with the fundus to one side of the pelvis and the cervix to the opposite side—Lateriversion. 3rd. Displacements of the Uterus hy Flexion, by which the relative position of body and cervix is altered. The normal uterus is flexible. Intra-abdominal pressure acting on tlie upper surface of the uterus (Fig. 1) causes the body to bend forwards on the cervix—the angle found at the junction of body and cervix constitutes the normal anteflexion of the uterus. This normal anteflexion may be increased as in con- genital and pathological anteflexion, or the axis of the uterus may become straight as in ante- version. The body is bent over on the posterior aspect of the cervix in retroflexion, and to one or other side in lateriflexion. 4th. Inversion of the Uterus.—In this dis- placement the form of the uterus is altered by its inner surface being turned outwards and its outer surface inwards. 1. Ascent of the Uterus.—The uterus ascends normally during pregnancy. After the fourth month it becomes an abdominal organ. Various diseased conditions of the uterus and surroimd- ing parts cause its ascent; the body may be so much enlarged by a fibroid tumour that it thereby becomes elevated, or a fibroid may grow downwards from the uterine cavity into the vagina and from its size lift up the organ. Vaginal neoplasms and the condition known as hsematocolpos act in a similar manner. Ovarian, parovarian, and broad ligament tumours, cystic or solid, may, so long as their size keeps them in the pelvis, act similarly. A tube enlarged by extra-uterine gestation, a collection of blood, serum, or pus in the pelvis, either encapsulated or not, may have the same efl'ect. When the uterus has been elevated into the abdominal cavity by some of the causes already mentioned, and an attack of peritonitis super- venes, it may become permanently fixed in that position. In this, as in every case, the treat- ment is that of the cause producing it. 2. Descent op the Uterus.—Descent of the uterus occurs in retroversion and retroflexion. In these afi^ections the uterus occupies a lower position in the pelvis than normal. When the uterus descends so low that the vaginal portion protrudes through the vulva, it is said to be prolapsed. 3. Prolapse of the Uterus.—The abdominal viscera, the uterus and its appendages are, when normal, in a state of equilibrium. The ab- dominal cavity is always full, and intra-abdominal pressure is exerted in all directions ; but in the erect posture that pressure, along with gravity, is directed anteriorly against the anterior ab- dominal wall and the back of the pubes. Inferiorly it is directed against the sacral seg- ment of the pelvic floor. Anteriorly this pres- sure is counteracted by the resistance of the anterior abdominal wall. Inferiorly the pres- sure is counteracted by the resistance of the sacral or fixed segment acting at right angles to it. If from any cause this equilibrium is disturbed, if there is increased intra-abdominal pressure, or weakening of the anterior abdominal wall or pelvic floor, we get proti'usions of the nature of hernise—herniee of the abdominal wall or the pelvic floor. In the former the hernise usually occur at the umbilicus, inguinal or femoral rings. In the latter it is the displaceable segment of the pelvic floor that is herniated. This displacement of the pelvic floor is commonly but en-oneously called prolapse of , the uterus. Certainly the uterus becomes pro- lapsed, but as it has nothing to do with the causation of the displacement, taking only a passive part from the fact of its being attached to the portion of the pelvic floor that becomes displaced, it is more correct to call the aiTection displacement of the pelvic floor. The aff"ection is essentially a hernia of the displaceable segment of the pelvic floor. The size of the uterus has nothing to do with it. This displacement occurs when the uterus is smaller than normal. Enlarged uteri may be- come and often do become retroverted, as in subinvolution, or anteflexed as in pregnancy, but one does not get displacement of the pelvic floor on account of the increased size of the uterus. Displacement of the displaceable segment of the pelvic floor, and the accompanying prolapse of the uterus, is caused by {a) increased intra- abdominal pressure ; (6) weakening of the sacral or fixed or supporting segment of the pelvic floor; and (c) deficient tone of the anterior seg- ment of the pelvic floor. Intra-abdominal pressure is increased when the abdomen is distended by tumours or by fluid ; it also results from tight-lacing and from the habit some women have of supporting heavy clothing on bands fastened round the abdomen. It is likewise caused by strong and prolonged muscular exertion, and is induced by the repeated expiratory eff'ort of cough in chronic bronchitis. The resistance of the supporting segment of the pelvic floor is impaired by parturition, which causes the segment to be straightened out or torn. One often meets with cases, however, where the perineum is completely divided, and yet the uterus retains its normal height in the pelvis. In such a case the remainder of the pelvic floor is sufficiently strong to maintain equilibrium. Deficient tone of the displaceable segment of the pelvic floor is also a result of parturition. For some time after labour this portion of the pelvic floor may be said to have lost its tonicity, and if a woman rises too soon, that is, before its normal strength has been restored, intra-