416 VALERIAN asafoetida) is empiric. The valerianates of quinine, zinc, and iron are used as tonics and nerve sedatives; the ammonium salt is a stimulant. Valerian, Indian.—This is the rhizome and rootlets of Valeriana Wallichii, and it con- stitutes Valerianae Indicse Rhizoma, which is official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the B.P. of 1898 ; it has the actions and uses of ordinary valerian (q-v.), and there is an official preparation, Tincture Valerianae Indicse Ammoniata (dose, h to 1 fl. dr.). Valescur. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Riviera). Valetudinarianism.—The invalid condition, or state of infirmity. Valeur Globulaire.—The proportion of haemoglobin in the blood to the number of erythrocytes, or the corpuscular richness of the blood in haemoglobin ; the blood quotient. See Blood {Colour hidex). Valg'US.—The condition of club-foot in which there is eversion. See Deformities {Toes, Foot, Leg). Vallecula.—An anatomical termmeaning depression or furrow, e.g. the vallecida cordis or depressed area at the apex of the heart, between the anterior and posterior longitudinal furrows. Valleix'S Points. — Points tender to pressure, found along the course of affected nerves in neuralgia. See Nerves, Neuralgia {Symptoms). Vallunri.—The outer margin or wall of the circular depression which surrounds each circumvallate papilla on the tongue ; also the duplicature of skin at the lateral margins of a nail {vallum uriguis). ValS. See Balneology {France, Alkaline) ; Mineral Waters {Alkaline, Simple). Valsalva's Experiment and Method. — The forcing of air from the pharynx into the tympanic cavities by closing the mouth and nose and making a strong ex- piration ; auto-infiation of the middle ear. See Ear, Examination of {By the Eustachian Tube). Valsalva's Sinus.—The pouch or pocket lying behind each cusp of the semilunar valves of the heart. See Physiology, Circula- tion {Heai-t, Structure). ValSUani'S Disease.—Pernicious pro- gressive anaemia as a complication of the preg- nant state. Valve.—A fold ; e.g. the valves of the heart, of veins, of the rectum, or of the ileum at its junction with the caecum. See Physiology, Circulation {Heart, Structure, etc.). Valvula.—A small valve or fold, e.g. the valvulce conniventes or small transverse folds of the small intestine. Valvular Disease.—Disease aflfecting the valves of the heart or arising in these struc- tures. See Heart, Myocardium and Endo- cardium {Pathology, Valvular Affections). **Vana."—A pharmaceutical product con- taining " calcium glycerophosphate and the alkaloids of cinchona bark in a pure sound wine" (Burroughs Wellcome & Co.); it is re- commended in convalescence, neurasthenia, and general debility, in doses of half a wineglassful, before or after food, three or four times a day. VaporeS. — Preparations which, in the form of inhalations, carry volatile drugs into contact with mucous membranes ; there used to be five officinal vapores (of hydrocyanic acid, chlorine, conium, creosote, and iodine). Vaporisation of the Uterus.— The cauterisation of the mucous membrane of the uterus by superheated steam {atmokausis) or by a metal catheter heated by the steam {zestokausis). Vaporole or Vapourole.—A small glass capsule containing a volatile drug such as amyl nitrite ; the capsule is broken and the drug inhaled. '*Vapours."—Hysteria or hypochondri- asis, from the old belief that hysteria was due to the passage of vapours {vapores uteri) from the uterus to the brain. Varese. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts {Italian Lakes). Varicella. Synonyms ...... 416 Definition ...... 417 Etiology 417 Symptomatology ..... 417 Diagnosis 418 Prognosis ...... 419 Pathology ...... 419 Treatment ...... 419 Relations to Public Health—Preven- tion ...... 419 See also Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Exanth- ematous Conjunctivitis) ; Disinfection {Incuba- tion Periods and Quarantine). Synonyms. — Latin, Varicella; English, Chicken-pox ; French, Varicelle, variolette, fause v^role, verole batarde, petite v(^role volante, pustules de poulet, nasles; German, Windpocken, Wasserpocken, Varicellen, Schafblattern, Spitz- blattern, Falsche Pocken; Italian, Varicella, Morviglione.