438 VENTILATION AND WARMING (6) Ventilating Grates or Stoves.—Where the fireplaces are "ventilating grates," such as Galton's or the Manchester Grate, the same quantities of air may be obtained with flues of less dimensions. For rectangular flues, the areas, taken in the same order as in the above table, would be :—0-54 sq. ft., 0-66, 0-81, 0-97, 1- 2, 1-4, 1-6. For cylindrical flues:—1-5, I'S, 2- 3, 2-7, 3-3, 3-9, 4-6 sq. ft. The ventilating grates not only extract the air, but also admit air, and warm the air admitted. Consequently, a ventilating grate will maintain a circulation of air in a room that has no other outlet or inlet. Ventilating gas-stoves, such as Bond's Euther- mic or George's Calorigen, are designed to fulfil much the same functions as the ventilating grates, and for halls, lobbies, consulting-rooms, and the like, are extremely convenient. Why ventilating grates and stoves (coal, gas, and oil) —though suggested by Dr. Neil Arnott two generations ago — have not yet become as common as open grates can be explained only by the inertia of unscientific habits of house- building, and the popular craze for non-essentials in a house. Already, however, there are several good patterns in the market. (See Notter and Firth, 2nd ed., p. 239 et seq.) (c) Ventilating Shafts.—These, unless fitted with an extraction fan or steam-jet or other motor, depend for their efficiency on three circumstances — the aspirating effect of air- currents across the top, the height of the shaft, and the difference between the temperature within the shaft and the temperature without. All three factors operate in the ordinary chimney with fire-place, where the difference in temperature is created by the fire. Gas-jets or hot-pipes may be made to serve the same pur- pose. The velocity of the air-current may be calculated from the height of the outlet open- ing above the inlet opening, when the tempera- ture within and without the shaft is known. The engineering tables show the velocities cor- responding to given heights of shaft at given temperatures. Thus, with a shaft 30 feet high, where excess of temperature in shaft is 50° Fahr. above external air, the velocity of air-current will be 14 feet per second. {d) Cotvls.—In so-called "natural" ventila- tion, which is only the general case of which a ventilating shaft is the special, cowls are some- times placed on the outlet. The design usually is to " increase the draught"; but, as shown above, the draught depends on the head of air produced by temperature, or aspiration by wind, etc. No cowl has an active effect. The chief value of a cowl is to prevent foreign bodies, or birds, or rain, or snow, from entering the shaft. When wind is blowing, they prevent down- draughts, provided the head of air at the lower end of the shaft is not greater. To suppose that they always cause up-draughts, and always prevent down-draughts, is neither good observa- tion nor sound theory. The varieties of cowl are numbered by the score. Some are rota- tory, being fitted with an Archimedean screw; they are active in a high wind, when they are useless, and stationary and obstructive in a calm, when they are wanted. Some are so moved by a vane as to keep the opening always on the lee side, so assisting extraction of air. Some are static, as in Boyle's or Donald's or Buchan's. The openings are so flanged that the wind from any direction causes aspiration upwards. Hellyer found Buchan's the most effective. Billings prefers the simple conical cap, or rather truncated cone, with fixed plate above; it is one of the oldest forms, and one of the cheapest; it gives the greatest velocity, and offers least resistance. The top plate prevents in-dropping of rain or other foreign matter. (e) Inlets and Outlets. — For inlets, the trumpet-shape, with large end inwards, secures better diffusion than a tube of uniform calibre. When a grating covers the inner end, the holes should be bevelled on the side from which the air is blowing. As to size, inlets should be " capable of being one and a half times as great as the outlet" (Shaw). This secures less fric- tion and less draughtiness. As to structure, in- lets should be as unobstructed, either by bends or gratings, as possible. A right-angled bend on an inlet duct reduces the velocity of the incoming air by about 50 per cent. Inlets should be adapted for regulation. Thus Sheringham's valve, which is shaped to direct the air upwards, can be closed or opened to any degree. A double-sash window can, by pushing up lower sash and blocking the lower opening, be made to admit air upwards between the sashes (Hinckes-Bird). But shape or direction is less important than position. Galton's grate is a good type of well-placed inlet and outlet. The inlet admits warmed air near the ceiling; the air diffuses easily in the upper strata, passes to the far side of the room, descends, runs along towards fire, and then up the flue. Inlet and outlet are on the same side of the room, and this arrangement secures the best diffusion, provided other openings do not interfere. If air be admitted at floor level, it should be warmed. Forms of inlets are :—Sheringham's valve ; Steven's drawer, which is much the same in principle; Jenning's air-brick, placed near ceiling; Mackinnel's ventilator, which consists of an inner tube within an outer, the inner taking heated air from ceiling, the outer ad- mitting cool air; Tobin's tube, which admits air from ground level, and carries it along duct vertically to any height within the room. Of the last, the primary defect is the taking of air from ground level. Dust is apt to lodge in the tube, which is usually imheated and too long. Tobin's tubes are best made of metal, which heats more readily to room temperature. Steam-