THLIPSENCEPHALUS of origin of such monstrosities (Gr. 6Xl^l<;, a pressure). Thoma-Zeiss Haemocyto- meter. See Blood {Enumeration of Cor- puscles). Thomas's Splint.—A long metal splint reaching from the thorax half-way down the leg. Thompson's Fluid. —A solution, containing 1 oz. of borax, 2 fl. oz. of glycerine, and 2 fl. oz. of water; it is used for washing out the bladder in cystitis, in the proportion of half a fluid ounce of the fluid to four fluid ounces of warm water. Thompson's Line.—A red line seen on the gums in pulmonary phthisis. Thomsen'S Disease.—Myotonia con- genita. See Muscles, Diseases of the {Myotonia Congenita). Thoracentesis.—Tapping or aspirat- ing the thorax for the removal of fluid either for diagnosis or for treatment. See Pleura, Affections of. Surgical {Exploration of the Pleura, Paracentesis Thoracis). Thoracic.—Relating to or belonging to the thorax or chest; e.g. the thoracic aorta, thoracic duct, thoracic nerves, and a thoracic aneurysm. See Ascites {Causation, Chylous Ascites); Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Thoracic Duct) ; Mediastinum {Mediastinal Growths, Diagnosis); Pregnancy, Intra-Uterine Diseases {Foetal Dropsy, Causes). ThoraCO-.—In compound words thoraco- means relating to the thorax; e.g. thoraco- acromial (relating to thorax and shoulder), thoracocentesis (thoracentesis), thoracodidymus {& double monster, the two bodies being joined by the thoraces), thoracodynia (pain in the chest), thoracogastroschisis (an open condition of both the abdominal and the thoracic cavities;, thoracopagus (fused twins in which parts of the thoraces are united), thoracoschisis (fissure or an open condition of the thorax), etc. Thoracoplasty.—Thorax resection or Estliinder's Operation, consisting of resection of the ribs in order to close an empyemic cavity. See Pleura, Surgical Affections of {Thoraco- plasty). Thorax. See Asphyxia {Resuscitation, Methods); Chest, Clinical Investigation of ; Chest, Deformities of ; Chest, Injuries of ; Chest-Wall, Affections of ; Lymphatic System {Lymphatic Glands, Thorax); Pleura, Affec- tions OF, Surgical {Thorax Resection); Post- mortem Methods {Examination of the Body Cavities); Syringomyelia {Thorax en Bateau) ; Teratology {Malformations of Thorax); etc. Thornwaldt's Disease.—A variety of naso-laryngeal stenosis due to cystic enlarge- ment of the pharyngeal tonsil or gland; Thorn- waldt's bursitis. Thoug^ht-Reading: or Thoug^ht- Transference.—The apparent reading of the thoughts of others by personal contact; it is really the appreciation of involuntary muscular movements as indications of the tendency of the thoughts of the person who is being experimented on. Thread Worms. See Parasites {Nematodes, Oxyuris Vermicularis); Appendix Vermiformis {Appendicitis, Causes, Thread Worm in Appendix). Three Days'Fever. See Dengue {Synony7ns). ThremmatolOg^y. — Experimental evolution (Gr. ^pe/^fxa, that which is reared, or a nursling). Thresh's Disinfector.—A disinfect- ing apparatus in which steam at a temperature a little above 100° C. is used ; the superheated steam is got from water impregnated with calcium chloride, and the disinfection takes half an hour. Thresh's Method.—A means of esti- mating the amount of oxygen in water by means of sulphuric acid, nitrite of sodium, iodide of potassium, thiosulphate of sodium, and starch solution. Thrills. See Aneurysm {Signs and Symp- toms); Chest, Clinical Investigation of {Heart, Palpation of Chest Wall); Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endocardium {Physical Exa7nination of Heart Thrills); Hydatid Disease {General Symptomatology). Throat. See Children, Clinical Exami- nation OF {Mouth and Throat); Galvanic Cau- tery {Uses, Diseases of Throat); HiEMOPTYSis {Diagnosis from Hcemorrhage from Throat); Larynx ; Neck, Region of {Injuries, Cut Throat); Syphilis {Tertiary, Mouth and Throat); etc. Thrombin or Thrombase.—The enzyme which causes clotting of the blood; its precursor is prothrombin, and it is supposed that another enzyme {thromhokinase) is needed to act upon the prothrombin and lime salts to initiate the process. See Physiology, Blood and Lymph {Blood, Coagulation). ThrombO-. — In compound words thromho- (Gr. Opofju/So^, a lump or clot) means relating to a clot; e.g. thrombo-arteritis (inflam- mation of an artery associated with thrombosis), thrombo-phlehitis (inflammation of a vein associ- ated with thrombosis), etc.