UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE 364 and sometimes bifurcate at the extremity (Fig. 1). The glands which belong to the cervical endo- Fig. 1.—The tubular glands of the uterus in section. book on Tumourn.) metrium are of the racemose kind, and possess cylindrical epithelium which differs from that belonging to the glands in the body of the uterus in that the cells are narrower (Fig. 2). The stroma in which the glands are embedded is denser than that in the body of the uterus, and the cells are spindle- formed. At the external orifice of the uterus the epithelium undergoes a sudden change, and instead of consisting of a single layer the surface cells stratify, and the whole of the cone-shaped portion of the cervix uteri which projects into the vagina is covered by squamous epithelium, directly continuous with and like that clothing the wall of the vagina (Fig. 3). In the normal uterus the transition from the single cell layer of the cervical endometrium to the multiple cell strata of the vaginal surface of the cervix occurs very abruptly at the margin of the external orifice of the uterus. It is necessary to be familiar with these cell modifications, because the epithelial elements of cancers of the uterus are deter- mined according to the part of the organ in which they arise. The distribution, microscopic characters, and peculiarities of uterine cancer are deter- mined by epithelium. When describing the features of cancer in general (vol. x. p. 160) it was pointed out that this disease exhibits peculiarities in its mode of growth, infec- tion of lymph glands, dissemination, and the way in which it destroys life according to the organ in which it arises. These features are illustrated in an extraordinary way in the viterus, for the frequency, course of the disease, clinical characters, and the way death is induced, vary widely according to whether the cancer arises in the epithelium of the cervix or in the body of the uterus. So that on pathological as well as on clinical grovmds it is convenient to consider the subject in two sections, viz. cancer of the neck of the uterus, and cancer arising in the endometrium of the body of the uterus. Cancer of the Neck of THE Uterus. — Careful sta- tistical inquiry shows that the three organs most liable to cancer are the mamma (breast), the neck of the uterus, and the stomach. The same method of investi- gation also brings to light the important fact that cancer of the neck of the uterus is almost exclusively confined to women who have been pregnant. The writer found in one hundred consecutive cases of undoubted cancer of the cervix that ninety-nine patients Magnified. (From the writer's Fig. 2.—A gland from the cervical endometrium (magnified). had had one or more children; and the excep- tional patient was a married woman, and in her case a miscarriage could not certainly be ex