URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 302 for those of calcium oxalate, or in spherules which show a concentric striation. They may be recognised by the fact that they dissolve in acetic acid with the evolution of carbon dioxide. Tyrosin and leucin are occasionally met with as sediments in the urine of patients suffering from acute yellow atrophy of the liver or phosphorus-poisoning. Tyrosin appears as fine needles arranged in sheaves or rosettes, which may be either colourless or pigmented. Leucin, which usually occurs in urine in association with tyrosin, is rarely if ever deposited from the urine direct, but on evaporation it some- times appears in the form of greenish yellow spheroids which exhibit radial and concentric striation. Hipjmric acid has very seldom been seen as a sediment, consisting of rhombic prisms. Its appearance has usually followed the administra- tion of benzoic acid or the eating of certain fruits. Indigo.—Urines which are undergoing alkaline fermentation frequently deposit indigo-red and blue, either in the form of amorphous particles or as acicular crystals arranged in rosettes. Such urines often exhibit a blue scum upon the surface. The masses or crystals of indigo-blue have a dark blue colour, whereas those of indigo- red are of a violet-red hue. The free pigment is in such cases formed by the decomposition of indoxyl-glycuronic acid, the less abundant of the indoxyl compounds met with in urine. Bilirubin is occasionally met with as a crystalline or amorphous deposit in jaundiced urine. The crystals are yellow or brown rhombic tables or needles arranged in tufts or rosettes, indistinguishable from those of hcema- toidin, which are sometimes met with in connec- tion with diseases of the kidneys and urinary passages, and perhaps with special frequency in cases of malignant growths. It is highly probable that bilirubin and hsematoidin are chemically identical. Cholesterin, when present as a crystalline sediment, appears to be always derived from the kidneys or urinary passages, as in cases of hydronephrosis and chronic cystitis, or from cysts communicating with the passages. The crystals which may form an abundant deposit have the well-known characteristic form. Soaps.—Von Jaksch has met with crystals which might easily be mistaken for those of tyrosin, but which are shown by their solubili- ties and reactions to be of some other nature. From their behaviour with solvents he is in- clined to regard them as consisting of the calcium and magnesium soaps of higher fatty acids. (2) Organised Sediments.—Bed blood cor- puscles are present in the urine in every case of hfematuria. In many instances they have lost their biconcave form, and have been to a great extent deprived of their haemoglobin. Not infrequently they have become crenate. Their presence is of great importance in dis- tinguishing between hsemoglobinuria and hsema- turia, and affords evidence of morbid conditions either in or below the kidneys. Leucocytes are very frequently present in small numbers in the urine under a variety of morbid conditions, and in females their occur- rence in larger numbers may be due to admixture of vaginal discharges. When pus has become mixed with the urine the number of leucocytes is often very large indeed. Their appearance is to a great extent dependent upon the reaction of the liquid in which they are suspended, and in alkaline urines their recognition may present some difficulty from swelling and opacity of the cells. The clinical significance of the presence of leucocytes is largely dependent upon their numbers, and upon the association with them of other cells or renal casts. Spermatozoa may be found in the urine of men after seminal emissions, and they may be readily recognised by their long, thread-like processes and by the characteristic form of their heads. Except in very fresh specimens their mobility is lost. Some expression of semen may occur in cases of obstinate constipation as the result of pressure upon the vesiculce seminales, and it is also found in urine passed after an epileptic fit. Bacteria of various kinds may often be found in the sediments, but the question of the bacteriology of the urine will be considered in a separate article (p. 307). Epithelial Cells.—The gradual shedding of the epithelium of the urinary tract, which occurs to some extent even under normal con- ditions, leads to the appearance of small numbers of epithelial cells in the urine of even quite healthy persons, and such cells form the organised constituents of the nubecula. In pathological states such cells may be present in much larger numbers and acquire consider- able clinical significance. The epithelium lining the several portions of the urinary tract is composed of cells which differ somewhat widely in their forms and sizes, and it is possible for the trained eye to form a fairly definite notion of the source from which particular varieties of such cells met with in the urine are derived, but such recognition is apt to be rendered difficult by the changes produced by the liquid in which they are suspended, and especially by those due to the reaction of the urine. It is usually an easy matter to recognise the groups of large flat polygonal cells, with sharply defined nuclei, which so frequently find their way into the urine of female patients and are of a vaginal origin, but it must not be forgotten that somewhat similar cells may be derived from the bladder, ureters, and urethra. Again, the small round cells of the renal