189 TYPHOID FEVER 46 cases, Ferard and Arden 23 and 17 others respectively. Six cases have occurred in my own observation. The obstruction is sometimes from thrombosis, sometimes embolic. Bacilli have been found in the clot and in the arterial wall, and thrombosis appears due in most cases to bacillary invasion of the arterial wall. The arteries of the lower limb are those most often affected. It is manifested by sudden pain in the limb, with lessened or no pulsation in the distal part arteries, coldness, or in most cases rise of temperature, in the local tenderness of the artery at the seat of occlusion, and some- times loss of power in the limb; also pyrexia, or sudden increase of previous pyrexia. It occurs most often in the third week of the dis- ease, but may be as late as the seventh week. It may entirely clear up, or the limb may remain weak and swelled for months after, or gangrene may result, usually dry (unless both vein and artery are occluded), and death may occur, or recovery after operation. Gangrene has occurred in the feet, ears, labia, penis, cornea, etc. Thrombosis may occur in the cerebral arteries and produce convulsions or paralysis. Respiratory System.—Lobar pneumonia may occur at various periods in the disease. In a few cases it has been proved due to the bacillus typhosus. 1. Typhoid fever may begin with the symp- toms and signs of acute lobar pneumonia (the initial rigor and rusty sputa are not always present), which quite obscure all other evidences of typhoid fever. After about six days the pneu- monia subsides by lysis or by crisis, but the temperature immediately rises again, and there become manifest other and more usual symptoms of typhoid fever, which runs through its usual course. The term pneumo-typhoid has been applied to these cases, but it is seldom that the pneumonia is proved to have been due to the specific bacillus. 2. An attack of pneumonia may occur ending by crisis, but three or four days later an attack of typhoid may commence and go through its usual course. In such cases there is probably a simultaneous mixed infection, the pneumonia developing and completing its course before the typhoid, with its longer incubation period, de- velops. 3. At any time during the course of typhoid fever pneumonia (at apex or base of the lung) may occur as a complication, with well-marked physical signs, and with a considerable increase in the previous pyrexia, and may subside by crisis, just as in non-typhoid cases, producing sudden collapse symptoms. After the crisis the temperature of the typhoid reasserts itself, and the latter disease continues its course. Some- times such an attack of pneumonia may come on just as the typhoid is passing away, con- stituting, as it were, a relapse. 4. Hypostatic pneumonia of insidious char- acter, with percussion dulness and fine true crepitations, but without tubular breathing, may come on at any time in typhoid, most usually in late stages, and may gradually invade in- creasing portions of lung or lungs. Such cases are probably septic in origin, and are very fatal. Bronchitis.—In nearly every case catarrhal sounds are audible in the larger bronchial tubes at the commencement of typhoid fever, and they often persist throughout its course, and are of no serious import. But acute bronchitis may occur at any time in the disease Sometimes it comes on with the invasion, and, with the headache and high fever, simulates acute tuber- culosis. In such cases it usually soon passes off, but when it comes on late in the disease and spreads into the smaller tubes, and is associated with congestion of the lungs, it is a serious com- plication, and accounts for a good many deaths. Pleurisy is less common than bronchitis or pneumonia. The typhoid bacillus has been found in the pleura in only a few cases. Typhoid pleurisy may remain "dry" or result in clear or purulent effusion ; according to Osier usually the latter when it occurs in conval- escence. Empyema may result from abscesses in the lung following pneumonia. Pulmonary abscesses, sometimes multiple, may result from pneumonia, and may lead to em- pyema or to pneumothorax. Bronchopneumonia was found by Hoffmann in 38 of 250 autopsies in typhoid. It comes on usually in the later stages of the disease. Hemorrhagic infarctions occur in the lungs, probably arising from detached thrombi in the right heart, and sometimes from septic collec- tions in other organs. Gangrene of lung may occur as a sequel of pneumonia. HcBmoptysis may occur with no discoverable lesion post-mortem. It is sometimes part of a general tendency to a haemorrhage. Pneumothorax has occurred from pulmonary abscesses, or abscesses behind the larynx burst- ing into the pleura. Tubercle and Typhoid Fever were formerly said to be mutually antagonistic, but typhoid may occur in the subject of acute or chronic phthisis ; moreover, the latter may first become evident, if not actually develop, during con- valescence from typhoid. Typhoid fever is frequently recovered from when it occurs in phthisical patients, but it tends to increase the activity of the tubercular disease. Laryngeal Complications. — Simple catarrh, with cough and husky voice, is not rare. Ulcers of the larynx, especially about the arytsenoids and base or margin of the epiglottis, may occur during convalescence. Hoffner found them in 28 of 250 autopsies of typhoid cases, and they seem more frequent in Germany than in England. Some ulcers of the larynx are due