401 VACCINIA Vaccinia,.—Cowpox. See Vaccination; Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Exanthematous Con- jtmctivitis). Vaccinophobia.—Morbid fear of vac- cination. VaccinOSyplliiiS. — Syphilis conveyed by the use of impure vaccine virus. See Vac- cination. VaCUOiation.—The formation of small spaces in a cell or tissue. See Muscles, Dis- eases of (Forms of Muscular Degeneration, Vacuolation). Vagrabond's Disease. — Pigmenta- tion of the skin due to long-continued irritation from pediculi aud lack of cleanliness. See Adrenal Glands, Addison's Disease (Diag- nosis) ; Skin, Pigmentary Affections of (Vaga- bond's Disease or Phtheiriasis). Vagfina, Disorders of the. Anatomy (see " Generative Organs," vol. iii. p. 440). Development (see vol. iii. p. 448). Malformations (see p. 447 et seq.). Changes in Position (see "Pelvio-per- iNEUM AND Pelvic Floor," vol. vii. p. 379). Vaginal Secretion .... 401 Inflammatory Affections :— 1. Catarrhal Vaginitis 403 Granular Vaginitis 403 Warty Vaginitis .... 403 Adhesive Vaginitis 403 Gonorrhoeal Vaginitis . 404 Mycotic Vaginitis.... 404 Emphysematous Vaginitis 404 Exfoliative Vaginitis 404 Vulvo-vaginitis of Children . 404 2. Pseudo-membranous Vaginitis 405 3. Ulcerative Vaginitis . 405 4. Specific Inflammations and Ulcers OF the Vagina 406 5. Para-vaginitis .... 407 Vaginismus ..... 407 New Formations ..... 408 Cysts ....... 408 Myoma and Fibroma .... 408 Sarcoma ...... 408 Carcinoma ...... 408 Injuries of the Vagina 410 Wounds ...... 410 Hoematoma...... 410 Foreign Bodies ..... 410 Acquired Stenosis and Atresia . 411 Fistula ...... 411 Urinary Fistuloe ..... 411 Foecal Fistuloe ..... 413 See also Abortion (Symptoms, Treatment); Aseptic Treatment of Wounds (Before Vaginal Operations); Fallopian Tubes (Vaginal Hyster- VOL. X ectomy for Diseases of); Generation, Female Organs of (Vagina); Generation, Female Organs of, Arrested Development (Vagina); Gonorrh(eal Infection ; Hysteria (Genital Organs, Vaginismus); Labour, Physiology of (Factors, Passages); Labour, Stages and Dura- tion (Second Stage); Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism ; Labour, Management of ; Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged ; Labour, Acci- dental Complications ; Labour, Injuries to Generative Organs ; Labour, Obstetric Opera- tions ; Menstruation and its Disorders (Menor- rhagia) ; Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor ; Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis (Exaviination); Pregnancy, Physiology of ( Vaginal Changes); Pregnancy, Management op ; Pregnancy, Af- fections of Generative Organs (Malforma- tions of Vagina); Pregnancy, Haemorrhage ; Puerperium, Physiology op ; Puerperium, Pathology (Puerperal Infection); Sterility ; Syphilis (Acquired, Primary); Uterus, Mal- formations of ; Venereal Disease. Vaginal Secretion.—Among the functions of the vagina that of excreting the products of the internal genital organs is one of the most important. In the interior of the canal are thus found constantly, in greater or less quantity, menstrual blood or various other dis- charges from the body and cervix of the uterus. The vagina itself is lined by a stratified squamous epithelium, and its mucous membrane is normally unprovided with glands. Doubts have, therefore, arisen as to whether the vagina itself secretes, or whether the materials found in its lumen do not all come from above. It is observed, howevei', that after complete re- moval of the uterus the normal vagina con- tinues to have a moist surface; and that in those severe cases of prolapse, where only the lower half inch or so of the posterior wall remains in situ, the exposed part of the vagina becomes dry and horny, while the part of the lumen which is preserved remains moist as usual. Hence it appears that the vagina does actually secrete, though under normal circum- stances the amount of the secretion is small. The normal secretion is a more or less viscid, tenacious fluid like thick starch mucilage. It has an acid reaction and chemically contains albumen but no mucin. The opaque whiteness of the secretion is due to desquamation of the superficial layers of the epithelium, and to the presence of a small number of leucocytes. The fluid part of the secretion probably consists of serum, which has transuded from the vessels of the papillae in the sub-epithelial layer of the vaginal wall. The acid reaction is probably caused by the presence of fatty acids; these are due to the growth of the bacillus vaginse, which appears to set up decomposition in the secretion immediately after it reaches the vaginal lumen. 26