TOLUYLENE-DIAMINE 30 {Ulcers, Causes of); Jaundice {Pathology, Haematogenous); Liver, Diseases of {Hyper- trophic Biliary Cirrhosis, Etiology, Experiments). Tolypyrin.—The homologue of antipyrin, tolyldimethylpyrazolon (Cj2H^4N20), given in the same kind of cases and in similar doses. Tomatoes. See Invalid Feeding {Vege- tables) ; Invalid Feeding {Cooking in Diabetes, Stuffed Tomatoes). Tomes' Fibres.—Dentinal fibrils, pro- cesses prolonged from the tooth pulp into the dentinal tubules. See Teeth. Tongfa..—The fluid extract of the root of Raphidophora vitiensis and the bark of Premna taitensis, obtained in the Fiji Islands; it has been used in neuralgia, dose ^ to 1 fl. dr. of the fluid extract; tongaline is a proprietary medi- cine said to contain salicylate of sodium, of colchicin, and of pilocarpin, extract of Cimi- cifuga, and tonga bark, and recommended in gout. Tong^ue. Development ...... 30 Anatomy ...... 30 Injuries . . . . . .31 1. Wounds 31 2. Scalds 31 Inflammatory Affections— I. Parenchymatous Glossitis . . 31 II. Acute Superficial Glossitis . 32 III. Chronic Superficial Glossitis . 32 IV. Tuberculous Disease ... 33 V. Syphilitic Affections ... 34 Tumours— I. Carcinoma ..... 36 II. Sarcoma ..... 40 III. Innocent Tumours ... 40 IV. Cysts 40 V. Thyro-glossal Cysts and Tumours 40 Malformations . . . . .41 Nervous Affections . . . .42 See also Achondroplasia {Clinical Features, Protrusion of Tongue); Actinomycosis {Tongue); Anesthesia, Chloroform {Falling back of Tongue); Children, Clinical Examination of {Mouth); Cretinism {Diagnosis); Glosso- pharyngeal Nerve ; Haemoptysis {Hcemorrhage from Tongue); Hemiplegia (jS'ymptoms); Herpes {Herpes of Maxillary Nerves); Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Suppu,rative Pyelonephritis, Parrot Tongue); Leprosy {Lepra Tuberosa, Symptoms); Paralysis {Cerebral Diplegia, State of Tongue); Scarlet Fever {Symptomatology, Tongue); Sprue {Clinical Featiires, Tende^-ness of Tongue); Syphilis {Secondary Symptoms, Tongue); Syphilis {Tertiary, Mouthand Throat); Typhoid Fever {Symptoms, Tremor of Tongue). Development. — The tongue is developed in relation to the mandibular or first branchial arch and the adjacent cleft. According to His the mesoblast becomes thickened and leads to fusion of the arches and grooves in the front of the neck, whereby the " meso-branchial area " is formed. From the portion of the meso-branchial area which lies behind the lower jaw a projec- tion grows towards the mouth, and constitutes the tuberculum impar, which by extending for- ward ultimately becomes that portion of the tongue which lies in front of the circumvallate papillae. The base of the tongue and the epi- glottis are derived from a second prominence which develops behind and below the tuberculum impar. The lateral portions of this prominence grow forward in a forked manner and enclose the tuberculum, with which they ultimately become fused. The line of fusion is conse- quently V-shaped, and its position is marked in the fully-developed tongue by the circumvallate papillae. At the angle of this "lingual V " is a small pit or depression, rarely more than one cm. in depth—the foramen coBcum—which re- presents the upper end of a peculiar strand of embryonic tissue which connects the tongue with the thyroid gland. This strand of tissue is known as the thyro-glossal tract, and it ex- tends from the foramen caecum through the substance of the tongue in the I'aphe between the genio-hyo-glossi muscles, passing in front of the hyoid bone and thyro-hyoid ligament to the pyramidal lobe of the thyroid gland. Anatomy.—The tongue is essentially a mus- cular organ, and the fibres of which it is com- posed interlace in a highly complicated manner. Posteriorly it is attached to the hyoid bone ; anteriorly, through the medium of the genio- glossus muscle, to the lower jaw. It is covered with stratified epithelium which in some respects resembles that of the skin, and in others corre- sponds to the covering of a mucous membrane. On the base of the tongue, behind the circum- vallate papillae, is a mass of lymphadenoid tissue —the lingual tonsil. The tongue receives its vascular supply chiefly through the lingual artery and its branches. Small twigs from the facial and ascending pharyngeal arteries also enter the tongue. The blood is returned by a freely communicating plexus of veins into the internal jugular, external jugular, and anterior jugular veins. The study of the lymphatic system of the tongue is of great surgical importance in rela- tion to the question of glandular infection in cancer. The lymphatic circulation in the organ is particularly free, and the communications with the cervical glands very numerous. As any or all of the groups of glands beneath the jaw and in the neck may be infected in cancer, it is necessary to refer briefly to their arrange- ment. The submental glands, two or three in