4 THYMUS GLAND size till puberty, when rapid fatty degeneration takes place and the organ practically disappears, becoming infiltrated with connective tissue, in which, however, remains of the gland may here and there be found. Its average length during the first two years is 2^ ins. (varying between 1;^ and 3| ins.); its breadth is from | to 1| ins.; and its weight from a half to one ounce. It consists of two lobes of unequal size, separated by a mesial fissure, and lies in the superior and anterior mediastinal spaces, and partly in the neck. It extends down to about the fourth costal cartilage, and comes into relation an- teriorly with the sternum and costal cartilages, laterally with the pleurse and lungs, and posteriorly with the pericardium, trachea, and vessels of the neck. In specimens hardened in situ by formalin the deep surface of the gland is found to show a concavity for the pericardium and deep grooves for the pulmonary artery, innominate veins, and superior cava (Cunningham). The two lobes of the thymus ascend in front of the trachea to an unequal distance, usually, however, falling short of the thyroid gland, and extending outwards as far as the carotid arteries. The blood-supply is from the inferior thyroid and internal mammary arteries; the nerves of the gland are derived from the vagus and sympathetic. The thymus is a ductless gland, and consists of a number of lobules separated from one another by connective-tissue septa arising from its sheath. In the clusters of lymphoid tissue which compose the lobules, cortical and medul- lary layers can be distinguished. In the latter the connective-tissue matrix is coarser and the lymphoid cells fewer ; and in the medulla, also, the characteristic thymus structures—Hassall's corpuscles—are placed. These consist of con- centric layers of flattened epithelial cells sur- rounding a granular nuclear corpuscle. The thymus develops about the seventh week of foetal life as a tubular diverticulum from the third visceral cleft. The walls of the diverticulum are composed of epithelium which proliferates rapidly, and as the diverticulum grows downwards it becomes expanded laterally in its lower part. Finally, the connection be- tween the gland and the pharyngeal cleft from which it arose is severed, and the epithelial structure is invaded and almost entirely re- placed by adenoid and connective tissue, the only remnant of its original constituents left in the mature gland being the Hassall's corpuscles already referred to. Function of the Thymus.—Little is known as to the function of the thymus. In all proba- bility it is the same as that of the lymphatic tissues elsewhere, the thymus juice containing numerous leucocytes which find their way into the general circulation through the veins of the gland. From the fact that it is usually per- sistent and enlarged in cases of Graves' disease. and sometimes in acromegaly and myxcedema, the idea suggests itself that it may have some function (an internal secretion?) correlated with that of other ductless glands. Svehla found that the intravenous injection of thymus extract produces (in dogs) a great fall in the blood pressure and acceleration of the heart, and, in lethal doses, dyspnoea and collapse. But in reality little is known as to the physiology of the organ. Diseases of the Thymus.—The thymus is for the most part inaccessible to the ordinary methods of physical examination, though in young infants a little dulness may be made out over the upper part of the sternum as low as the third rib. The majority of the morbid changes to which the organ is liable are, either because of their rarity or because they are in- susceptible of clinical diagnosis, of pathological interest alone. Only one condition, in fact,— hypertrophy of the thymus,—is of any practical importance; see Status Lymphaticus ; the other diseases of the organ may be dealt with very briefly. 1. Tuberculosis is on the whole rare. It may occur as a primary lesion, but is more commonly part of a generalised tubei-culosis. Jacobi found it thrice in children under one year, in each case as a part of a generalised miliary tuberculosis. 2. Syphilis.—In cases of hereditary syphilis the usual vascular lesions and increase of con- nective tissue are sometimes found. Small multiple abscesses are also said to occur, but there is some doubt as to whether these are really of an inflammatory nature, as the secre- tion of the thymus gland bears considerable resemblance to pus. 3. Inflammation and Abscess Formation.— Though rare, there seems no doubt that some cases of mediastinal abscess have had origin in the thymus. Chronic inflammation of the capsule may occur secondarily to pleurisy or mediastinitis. Necrotic foci were found by Jacobi in some cases of diphtheria. 4. Tumours, etc.—Sarcomata, lymphadeno- mata, carcinomata, lipomata, cysts, of uncertain origin, containing clear yellowish serum, and possibly other tumours, may develop in the thymus gland. 5. H(xmorrhages are not infrequently found, both in cases of " thymus-death" and apart from that condition in young infants dying of atelectasis, convulsions, whooping cough, asphyxia neonatorum, or, in short, of any dis- ease attended by circulatory disturbance. They may in some cases be due to syphilis or to hsemophilia. 6. Enlarged and Persistent Thymus.—This is met with in the adult in several conditions, notably in exophthalmic goitre, of which it is a frequent accompaniment. As a lymphoid organ the thymus is also often enlarged in leukaemia-