TUBERCULOSIS 145 raw milk, with all its concomitants, causes no evil effects, as is proved by the fact that prob- ably all of us have unwittingly partaken of tuberculous milk. Clifford Allbutt has tested this by allowing his own family and servants, as well as two families living near, to consume the highly bacilliferous milk of a favourite cow. Not one individual developed the slightest trace of tuberculosis. This is perfectly credible, but the conditions of the experiment, if so it may be called, do not fit the case. Pasteur, in investigating a disease of silk-worms, traced the evil to a micro-organism, but a far more valu- able and suggestive outcome of his researches was the discovery that so long as the silk-worms were in health they laughed and grew fat on the micro-organisms; only when they deterior- ated in condition and suffered from digestive derangement could they enter and cause the disease. Similarly, healthy individuals do not really acquire tuberculosis, but only such as are predisposed through a general weak condition of body, or through bad environment, or who are the subjects of intestinal or gastric catarrh. The majority of cases of respiratory tuberculosis may be left out of account, as these usually result by infection from a previous case in man, though all cases of respiratory tuberculosis must not be looked upon as necessarily respiratory in origin. A great deal of information is gained from examination of suspected cases after death, but here again it must not be forgotten that only the very severe cases of abdominal tuberculosis come to the post-mortem room. Tuberculosis, and particularly abdominal tuberculosis, tends very frequently to heal. Records of necropsies at home and abroad indicate that traces of healed tuberculous lesions exist in from 20 to 50 per cent of all persons dying of other diseases. Taking the case of abdominal tuberculosis specially. Sir William Gairdner, in Lectures to Practitioners, says : " A far too grave prognosis is arrived at in cases of tabes (mesenterica), consequently many cases of tubercular disease, not only of the mesenteric glands, but also of the peritoneum, recover, only the graver cases succumbing." It is a matter of common knowledge and experience that cases of undoubted abdominal tuberculosis, with, frequently, no evident trace of tuberculous mischief elsewhere, will heal after, or are cured by, laparotomy. Churton {Lancet, 1897, i. p. 594) gives in- stances of rapid absorption of tuberculous masses in the abdomen without operation, and others at the same meeting related similar cases coming under their own observation. Woodhead {Lancet, 1888), after quoting sta- tistics, says: " It is evident that tubercular conditions of the abdomen are much more common than can be inferred even from the figures quoted." VOL. X Hence post-mortem statistics must not be taken as indicating the prevalence of abdominal tuberculosis during life. Koch states that he has only seen two cases of undoubted primary intestinal tuberculosis, and Miiller, from 500 autopsies on children at Munich, concludes that the intestines are seldom the avenue for tuberculous infection in children. Though this, again, is not the ex- perience of physicians and pathologists in this country, we must note that ingestion tubercu- losis does not limit itself to producing intestinal ulceration, but, as all of us have seen, the organism may pass through the wall of the intestine without markedly affecting it, and cause a tuberculous peritonitis, or more often tuberculosis of the mesenteric glands. Follow- ing on this, other groups of glands may be in- fected, such as the retro-peritoneal, the cceliac, posterior mediastinal, bronchial, and root glands, and these, breaking down into a bronchus or vessel, may give rise to a secondary respiratory tuberculosis, or to a generalised tuberculosis, just as the condition may travel in the reverse direction from primarily infected bronchial glands to mesenteric glands. Once more, in ingestion tuberculosis the bacilli may invade by way of the pharyngeal and faucial tonsils, and proceed downwards along the cervical chains of glands to the mediastinal and root glands. This course has been demonstrated experimentally in the pig by Dr. Sidney Martin, who failed to infect by inhalation of bacilli, but foimd that in feeding experiments the rule was that invasion took place by way of the tonsils, which are very prominent in the pig. By many, chronically enlarged tonsils in man are looked iipon as pre- disposing to pulmonary tuberculosis. Sidney Martin lays great stress on his experiments as proving the etiology of the analogous cases of " strumous " glands in children (Report of Royal Commission on Tuberculosis, 1895-96). All practitioners have shared the experience of Wohlgemuth when he states that in such cases removal of the affected glands removes the focus of disease, and cures the patient. Bollinger, F. Hueppe, Weleminsky, and Sims Woodhead also emphasise the importance of this method of infection in children. The last named says {Lancet, 1894, ii. p. 958) : " I am driven to the conclusion that this method of infection of the glands through the tonsils must be of comparatively frequent occurrence, especially in children living under insanitary conditions, and subjected to various devitalising influences." Further referring to the fact that in pigs the lungs may be affected secondarily to tuberculosis of the pharyngeal tonsillar structures through the connecting chains of glands, he says, and the writer's own experi- ence supports his statement: "I have seen a similar line of invasion in children, sometimes 10