73 TOXICOLOGY ments become slower and feebler, and there may be delirium and coma. When the paralysis reaches the respiratory muscles the patient becomes cyanosed, and dies asphyxiated, death being frequently preceded by convulsions. The treatment consists in evacuating the stomach and administering stimulants along with the application of external warmth. Artificial respiration will be needed, and should be perseveringly kept up ; by this means life may be saved when the condition appears to be hopeless. There are no characteristic post- mortem appearances—simply the indications of death from asphyxia. Foxglove.—This is a true heart poison; in fatal cases the heart usually ceases to beat before the respiration ceases, although the respiration rate may be reduced in frequency shortly before death. In addition to the specific action of digitalis the poison acts as an irritant to the digestive canal, causing pain with a feeling of oppression about the stomach, nausea, often obstinate vomiting, and possibly diarrhoea, with colicky pains in the abdomen, and much thirst. The specific effects of the poison are shown by giddiness, faintness, headache, clammy, cold surface, especially of the limbs, collapse, and various nerve disturbances such as dimness of vision, noises in the ears, hallucinations, and delirium. These symptoms are due to the extremely low arterial tension which is further evinced by the feeble, fluttering action of the heart; any movement towards the upright posture is immediately followed by threatened or actual syncope, which may be instantaneously fatal. The breathing is slow and of the sighing type. A tendency to drowsiness or to coma is common, and cyanosis with asphyxic convulsions may precede death. Treatment.—Wash out the stomach or give a stimulating emetic such as a dessert-spoonful of mustard in warm water. As soon as the stomach is freed from the poison stimulants must be freely given, external warmth applied, and the recumbent posture rigorously maintained for several days. Friction and the application of mustard to the region of the heart, with the administration of hot coffee, to which brandy may be added, are helpful. If the vomiting is prolonged the coffee and the stimulants may be given by the rectum, or ether may be injected subcutaneously. An occasional fragment of ice will help to check the vomiting. It must be borne well in mind that the condition of the heart renders the patient extremely liable to fatal syncope for several days after the im- mediate effects of the poison have passed off; hence the absolute necessity for keeping him closely confined to bed until the dangerous period is passed. ^h^efatal dose oi digitalis is uncertain: nine drachms of the tincture have caused death, and recovery has taken place after more than three ounces. Dangerous symptoms have been caused by the medicinal preparation called digitalin, which is an uncertain drug of no fixed chemical constitution, its activity being determined by the process by which it is prepared. In fatal cases of poisoning by foxglove death may take place within twenty hours, or it may be much longer delayed. There are no characteristic post-mortem appearances; some indications of the action of a gastro-intestinal irritant may be present. CoLCHicuM, in poisonous doses, causes a burn- ing pain in the throat and down the oesophagus to the stomach, followed by copious vomiting and purging, with violent griping and strangury. There is intense thirst, with symptoms of col- lapse, the appearances being those previously described as due to a typical irritant poison. After the bowel-contents have been evacuated the alvine discharge becomes serous and may be blood-stained. Muscular spasms, or, oc- casionally, convulsions may occur. The mind usually remains clear until death approaches, although, exceptionally, stupor attacks the patient at an earlier stage. The treatment consists in emptying the stomach by the tube or an emetic, and then giving strong tea and brandy, with friction, external warmth, and, if necessary, artificial respiration. If the vomiting be excessive an ether injection should be substituted for the brandy, unless the latter is administered by the rectum. A hypodermic injection of a third of a grain or half a grain of morphine will probably be required to allay the intense griping. Fatal Dose.—Three and a half drachms of colchicum wine have caused death, and recovery has followed ten drachms. Six grains of col- chicine—the active principle of colchicum— caused the death of an adult in thirty-one hours. Death from colchicum usually takes place within thirty hours; it has occurred as early as seven hours, and has been delayed for seven days. Beyond the possible presence of signs of inflammation of the intestinal mucous membrane there are no post-mortem appearances. Hellebore contains a number of alkaloids of which one—veratrine—produces a very irri- tating effect on the nasal mucous membrane. Symptoms. — An acrid, burning sensation beginning in the throat and extending to the stomach is quickly experienced, which is followed by vomiting and possibly by diarrhoea. There is great thirst, the pulse is feeble, the respirations are slow, and rapid collapse occurs. There may be disturbances of sensation and delirium. Treatment.—Evacuate the stomach and ad- minister hot coffee and stimulants. Artificial respiration, with the application of external warmth and friction, and the maintenance of the recumbent posture, may severally be required. There are no characteristic post- mortem appearances.