206 TYPHUS FEVER death occurs with the temperature actually on the normal line. Stage of Defervescence.—If, on the other hand, as is more often the case, the patient is to progress towards a favourable recovery, the tem- perature often shows a tendency to fall a little, if only half a degree to a degree, about the twelfth day. The crisis itself which follows this slight movement of the temperature is usually a comparatively slow one, but is never- theless exceedingly well marked. It may com- mence on the thirteenth, fourteenth, or fifteenth TEMPERATURE CHART Chart l.—Chart of a young woman of 23, suffering from severe typhus from second day ; recovery. Showing rise of temperature to acme, improvement from 12th day, and final crisis on 14th. days, or even later, but most commonly a con- siderable fall is noted on the evening of the thirteenth or the morning of the fourteenth day. The fall may last two or three days, but usually the evening of the fifteenth day sees the tem- perature normal. Thereafter it tends to remain subnormal for about a week. This gradual but steady abating of the pyrexia is accompanied by a proportionate decrease in the pulse-rate and by a general clearing of the mental confusion. The tongue becomes rapidly moist, the con- junctivae clear up and lose their pink tinge, and the pupils return to their normal size. The skin is moderately moist, but sweating is un- usual and is not a good sign. The urine is much increased in amount and much paler in colour, and the albumin disappears. A slight looseness of the bowels often precedes or accom- panies this critical change. Occasionally hypo- static congestion of the lungs may be extensive or severe enough to keep the temperature slightly elevated for some days after the crisis has occurred. Stage of Convalescence.—Except in a few cases the patient is practically out of danger after his temperature has reached normal. Some patients, however, take a little time to rally after the profound alteration which has occurred in their general condition. The vast ma- jority, fortunately, give no trouble at all, and it is remarkable to see a man, who tiiree days before may have looked abso- lutely . hopeless, eating a liberal allowance of solid food with every sign of enjoyment. Moreover, in spite of considerable wast- ing having occurred dur- ing the fever, the short duration of the disease makes this wasting much less marked than it is in enteric, and convalescence is therefore short. The average patient is well able to be out of bed within a week from his crisis, but it nuist be, of course, remembered that he is infectious to others for probably a fortnight later. Rare instances of true relapse of typhus have been recorded by Curschmann. Morbid Anatomy.—A certain number of cases will at a post-mortem ex- amination show traces of the characteristic eruption. The stained spots, of course, are visible after death, and if there has been much true haemorrhage into the skin the purpuric patches are also visible. Rigor mortis is slight. On opening the body there is nothing to be found which is pathogno- monic of the disease. The internal organs are, as a rule, very much congested, and small haemorrhages may appear on their surfaces, as also occasionally on the lining membrane of the trachea and bronchi. Meningeal haemorrhages and hyper£emia of the surface of the brain are relatively common. The spleen is much en- larged and usually diffluent. The heart is often dilated, its muscle is flabby and friable, and the