313 URINO- urine), urinometer (an instrument for determin- ing the specific gravity of the urine), etc. Urning^S.—Individuals (male or female) with sexual perversion, preferring persons of their own sex to those of the opposite sex. See Uranism. Uro-.—In compound words uro- (Gr. ovpov, urine ; ovpd, the tail) means either relating to the urine or relating to the tail or the caudal region ; e.g. uromelus (a monstrosity in which the lower limbs are fused into a projection resem- bling a tail, sympodia), urocele (swelling of the scrotum from extravasation of urine), urodynia (painful micturition), uroschisis (suppression of urine), etc. Uroanthropos. /See Homo-Caudatus. Urobilin. See Intestines, Diseases of {Anatomical and Physiological Consideration) {Result of Removal of Large Intestine); Liver, Diseases of (Venous Congestion, Physical Signs, Urine); Physiology, Excretion {Urine, Physical Characters, Pigments); Pigments of the Body AND Excreta {Bile-Pigments); Spectroscope in Medicine (Fig. 10); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Pigments). The presence of an excess of urobilin in the urine constitutes uro- bilinuria. UrOChrome. -S'ee Physiology, Excre- tion {Urine, Physical Characters, Pigments); Pigments of the Body and Excreta {Bile-Pig- ments) ; Spectroscope in Medicine {Spectrum of Urochrome); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Pigments). Urocyanog^en.—A blue pigment found sometimes in urine. UrOCyanOSiS.—A blue discoloration of the urine due to indican. Uroerythrin. See Physiology, Excre- tion {Urijie, Characters, Pigments); Spectro- scope in Medicine (Various Spectra); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Colour, Pigments, Uroerythrin). Urogenital.—Relating to the urinary and the genital organs ; e.g. the urogenital sinus in the embryo {see Embryology, Human); uro- genital tuberculosis {see Tuberculosis, Lesions of Various Organs). UrOgOSan.—A preparation consisting of gonosan and urotropin, recommended (in cap- sules) in cystitis and urethritis. Urohaematoporphyri n.—A urin- ary pigment found in certain diseased conditions, siich as Addison's disease, acute rheumatism, etc. ^ee H^matoporphyrinuria. Urolith.—A urinary stone or calculus; the presence of such calculi in the bladder or kidneys is called urolithiasis. See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of {Stone). Urophsein.—A urinary pigment, perhaps the cause of the odour of the urine. UropoietiC. — Secreting or excreting urine, thus the kidneys are described as uro- poietic organs and their function is named uropoiesis. UrorOSein.—A rose-colour urinary pig- ment, probably of intestinal origin ; it is obtained by the action of hydrochloric acid upon urine from which the nearly colourless chromogen has been isolated in crystalline form. *S'ee Pigments of the Body and Excreta {Melanins, etc.). Urostealiths. 'S'ee Urine, Pathological Changes in {Lipuria, Calculi, Urostealiths). Urotoxic.—Belonging to poisonous sub- stances present in the urine or simply to the urine itself as a cause of poisoning, e.g. the urotoxic coefficient in urtemia. See Uremia {Theories of Causation). The urotoxic coefficient depends on the number of units or urotoxies formed in twenty-four hours by one kilo- gramme of an individual, and each urotoxy (unit of toxicity) is the amount necessary to kill a kilogramme of living substance. U rot rop i n.—Hexamethyleneteti'amine. Consists of colourless crystals obtained from the action of ammonia upon formaldehyde. It is soluble in water. Dose, 5-10 grs. It is used as a urinary antiseptic, and was supposed to act by the liberation of formaldehyde in the urine. This is incorrect, but its antiseptic value is un- doubted nevertheless. It is especially useful when the urine is alkaline, purulent, and loaded with phosphates. It is employed widely in cystitis of various kinds, and also as a pro- phylactic during the course of prolonged cathe- terisation of the bladder. Uroxanthin.—A yellow pigment found in urine, and yielding indican blue when oxidised. Urtica. >S'ee Stinging Plants; Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata {Vegetable Causal Agents). Urticaria. Syn. :—Nettlerash, cnidosis {kvlStj, a nettle). Definition ...... 314 Symptoms ...... 314 Varieties ...... 314 Etiology ...... 315 Pathology . . . . . .316 Treatment ...... 317 See also Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Exanthe- matous Conjunctivitis); Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata ; Dermatitis Herpetiformis {Urti-