37 TONGUE floor of the mouth, the submental glands are the first to become enlarged. Later the submaxil- lary group follows suit. When the tumour is further back on the tongue the submaxillary glands are first implicated, and later those along the line of the carotid artery and internal j ugular vein. Owing to the close proximity of the sub- lingual and submaxillary salivary glands, and the fact that lymphatic glands frequently lie inside their capsules, these glands are often infected. The enlarged glands on the neck are very liable to become cystic, or to suppurate and burst to the surface, leaving unhealthy sinuses or malignant ulcers. Metastasis to the liver, lungs, or other internal viscera may take place, but is rare. The patient usually dies in from twelve to eighteen months from repeated small hsemor- rhages, or from marasmus, septic absorption, or a low form of pneumonia. Glandular Carcinoma.—As the writer's case of carcinoma of the tongue originating in the mucous glands appears to be the only example hitherto recorded, it may be briefly described. The patient was a sailor, set. 59, who, save for three attacks of yellow fever, had always enjoyed good health. He denied having had syphilis. About five years before coming under observation he noticed on the dorsum of his tongue a small white patch, which was hard, but not painful. For two years it slowly in- creased in size, and later began to cause pain. For a year before seeking advice he had had gradually increasing difficulty in moving his tongue in mastication, deglutition, and articula- tion, until eventually it became almost fixed. During the same period the pain had greatly increased, till it was constant and severe, shoot- ing into the ears and through the head. He had lost a stone and a half in weight in about two years. On examining the mouth it was found to be filled up almost completely by the tongue, which was thickly coated with a greyish brown fur. There was a large ulcerated area on the right side of the tongue covered by a grey slough. The jaws remained slightly apart, but were almost fixed, and the tongue could not be protruded even to the level of the teeth. Articulation was very indistinct, and he could swallow only with difficulty. There were several large, hard glands behind the angle of the jaw on the right side, and another in the line of the vessels. On the left side only one small gland could be detected. The tongue was excised by Whitehead's method, but recurrence took place, and the patient died seven months after the removal of the tongue. On post-mortem examination it was found that there were numerous glandular swellings on both sides of the neck, some of which had undergone cystic degeneration. In addition metastatic tumours were found in the lungs, the suprarenal glands, and the pan- creas. Differential Diagnosis.—Cancer of the tongue has to be diagnosed from syphilitic and tuberculous affections, warty growths, and simple ulcers and fissures; and in connection with the diff"erential diagnosis it has to be borne in mind that any of these conditions may take on malignant characters and develop into an epithelioma. In many cases it is impossible from the clinical evidence to arrive at a definite diagnosis, and it becomes necessary to remove a portion of the growth for microscopic examina- tion. Should any doubt still remain, the con- dition should be treated as if it were malignant. Treatment.—From the point of view of treat- ment cases of cancer of the tongue may be divided into two classes: (1) those in which there is a reasonable prospect that the disease may be completely eradicated by free removal of the primary growth and of the infected lymphatics, and (2) those in which the disease has extended so widely that complete removal cannot be hoped for. lu the first class the operation should always be recommended as the only line of treatment which off"ers any hope of permanent cure. The treatment of early cases by the repeated ap- plication of caustics cannot be too strongly condemned. Not only does it fail to arrest the growth of the tumour, but the irritation caused by the agent applied actually hastens its spread. Even in cases where recurrence takes place the operation is usually justified, as it prolongs the patient's life by six or eight months, and by removing the foul ulcerated mass from the mouth adds greatly to his comfort. Further, the recurrence usually takes place in the glands, and is not attended with great suff'ering. Metastasis to distant organs is rare in cancer of the tongue, and the possibility of its occur- rence seldom influences the question of operative interference. In the second class—where there is little hope of being able to extirpate the disease— the surgeon often has great difficulty in deciding as to whether or not the attempt should be made. Speaking generally, it may be said that if the local disease in the mouth can be completely removed, this should be done, even if the aff'ected glands cannot all be excised. The patient's suffering is almost entirely due to the ulcerated tumour in the mouth causing agonising pain, profuse salivation, and extreme fcetor of the breath, and even if the operation does nothing more than free him of this, and so render his last days bearable, it is amply justified. If, however, the disease is situated near the base of the tongue, and has spread extensively in the floor of the mouth, on to the tonsils, the palate, or the lower jaw, or towards the opening of the larynx, and at the same time there is