WRIST-JOINT INJURIES 550 styloid in recent injuries, that it is quite unim- portant in regard to the deformity or other leading phenomena of Colles' fracture. The clinical complication of greatest gravity which I have seen in dealing with Colles' frac- ture is gangrene of the limb. I have twice seen this accident occur in cases which pre- sented other grave injuries ; in one I think over- severe efforts to diminish the deformity caused by the fracture precipitated the gangrene. In the other there was no special sign to give warning of the onset of gangrene, only the unusual complaints of pain in the limb on the evening and night of the second day. The treatment of Colles' fracture should be directed, in the first instance, to the reduction of deformity as completely as it can be effected by the guarded use of traction. One must bear in mind that nearly one-half the cases are im- pacted fractures, and that it must in conse- quence be impossible to fully restore the form of the broken bone. The invariable existence of deformities in the examples preserved in our collection, and in every other that I have seen, goes to prove that one never succeeds in a perfect reduction. The reduction is a very painful proceeding for the patient, and I have many times found patients absolutely refuse to allow it to be carried out to the full degree. Many patients, particularly males, become faint when extension is made, and if the surgeon is wise, instead of suspending the reduction because of the patient's fainting, he will at once com- plete the reduction as far as he fairly can while the fainting lasts. I think if the injury the surgeon is called to treat is quite recent, he should have at his hand two flat wooden splints, well padded, long enough to reach from just below the elbow joint to the tips of the fingers. A pad of wool to be applied to the palmar surface of the forearm, thickest beneath the actual seat of fracture, should be placed on the anterior splint. As the reduction is effected the palmar splint is put in position, while ex- tension is kept up by Colles' grip, then the dorsal splint is applied, and the apparatus fixed by a roller turned firmly but without excessive strictness. In a day or two, as soon as the degree of swelling of the soft parts has been estimated, and is seen to be on the decline, a more agreeable support for the limb is made of light poroplastic felt, moulded to the front and back; this can be shortened by ^jj. cutting away the dorsal and palmar supports of the fingers and thumb, ■Mk and by reheating, adjusted so as to fit ^a^^P the forearm and hand as the swelling i^^^P subsides. Or instead of this material the limb may be lightly put up in plaster of Paris. Three or four weeks of support to the limb is best, and, as the fingers are freed by shortening of the splints, their motion early comes into play. Colles' Fi-acture Reversed. — Of the rare injury, fracture of lower end of the radius, with displacement of the lower fragment forwards, the collection of the School of Physic contains seven specimens, with a cast of an eighth which is in the R.C.S.I, collection ; of these, two agree with the description given by Professor Gordon ; two, on the other hand, agree with the figure published by Yoillemier. The relative number of these specimens proves the inapplicability of the name applied by Professor Gordon to this Fig. 6. Fiu. 7. fracture, " articular," for we see here the frac- tures as remote from the joint as in ordinary Colles' fractures. We possess also the original cast published by Professor Smith, and now casts of two cases observed in practice by myself. Of these speci- mens two may be regarded as conformable with Professor Gordon's articular fracture, being