596 YELLOW FEVER occasionally sinks to forty a minute, less fre- quently it is weak and accelerated. The con- junctivfe, skin of face, neck, and upper part of chest assume a tint varying from a straw colour, easily overlooked, to a deep saffron or even bronze hue. In a considerable number of even severe cases distinct jaundice only makes its appearance after death. Gastric irrita- bility, which had temporarily subsided, recurs. The vomited matters begin to show dark grains or flakes—the precursors of the black vomit. Quantities of a fluid resembling coftee-grounds are now ejected. This black vomit, so charac- teristic of yellow fever, is only one sign of a hsemorrhagic state which frequently manifests itself in epistaxis, oozing from the lips, gums, tongue, ears, or eyes, by haemorrhages from the bowels, bladdei", and uterus, and by ecchymosis into the skin. In malignant cases slight pressure will cause blood to ooze from the tongue as from a sponge. During this stage the urine is scanty, always highly albuminous, and may or may not give the reactions of bile. Sometimes it is suppressed. The excretion of urea is notably decreased, and its accumulation in the blood gives rise to the symptoms of urtemia. The bowels are relaxed, the motions black and tarry or dark and watery. Recovery not infrequently takes place after all of these symptoms in a minor degree have developed. An increase in the urinary secretion and a diminution in the albumin are the most hopeful signs. This is generally followed by an abatement of the vomiting. When the disease has reached this stage, if the patient escapes with his life, convalescence is protracted. Death usually occurs from a combination of causes—enfeebled circulation and impeded re- spiration, with exhaustion from fever, vomiting, and hfemorrhages, and the depression of the nervous system resulting from the presence of urea and other toxic substances in the blood. A fatal termination takes place, as a rule, from the fourth to the eighth day. Relapses are most frequent after abortive cases. In most outbreaks a considerable proportion of the cases terminate favourably in the first stage. The symptoms, in fact, may be so mild that the true character of the disease is over- looked. At the other extreme are cases of great severity running a rapid course. In these, as we have already said, rigors are generally absent. There is extreme prostration from the very commencement, with coldness of the extremities, vertigo, dilated pupils, profuse multiple haemor- rhages, stupor, delirium, coma, or convulsions, death taking place within thirty-six or forty- eight hours. Each epidemy has its own char- acter. In the Lisbon outbreak of 1857 algidity was the distinguishing symptom. The external temperature fell below the normal; the pulse was small, feeble, and sometimes fast, the features shrunken and livid, the skin generally cyanosed and covered with purpuric spots, the extremities deeply livid and cold, with oozing of blood from nose and gums, black vomit, and almost total suppression of urine. In some epidemics, again, vomiting, purging, cold sweats, and prostration have replaced the ordinary symptoms of the first stage. Complications.—The more common complica- tions are parotitis of one or both sides, boils, cai-buncles, abscesses (if large a good sign), and erythema of the scrotum. In Senegal two cases of gangrene of the extremity of the penis were observed. The following charts (pp. 597 and 598) repre- sent the more common types of temperature curves—the last three fatal. Morbid Ant^tomy. — Rigor mortis appears early, and is extremely marked and persistent. The skin and tissues are almost invariably jaundiced, and hypostatic suffusions particu- larly pronounced and difl'used. The axillary, femoral, or mesenteric glands are often enlarged (Durham). The membranes and substance of the brain and spinal cord are often highly congested. The lungs and bronchial tubes are more or less congested, but present no characteristic lesions. The pericardium is occasionally ecchymosed, and may contain a moderate quantity of yellow serous or sanguineous eifusion. The heart may be either normal in appearance or pale and flabby. Small ecchymotic points are often found in the substance of the organ. The muscular fibres may be normal, or present distinct evidence of fatty degeneration. The liver is normal in size, and varies in colour from a buff' to deep lemon colour. The specific gravity of the hepatic tissue is reduced in proportion as the yellowness is more de- veloped. The hepatic cells are in a state of fatty degeneration, with partial or complete necrosis of the cell. The fatty changes are more marked in some portions of the liver than in others. The spleen is normal in size, colour, and consistence, unless the patient has suffered from malaria. The stomach often contains more or less of a fluid similar to black vomit, and presents patches of congestion, hsemorrhagic suffusions, and catarrhal thickening of the mucosa. The small intestine frequently contains a fluid similar to that found in the stomach. The mucous mem- brane is arborescent in patches. The large intestine is normal. The kidneys are frequently congested and swollen when death has taken place very early, otherwise they are normal in size and colour. They are always the seat of diffuse parenchy- matous nephritis. The epithelium of the con- voluted tubules are specially involved and undergo fatty degeneration, necrosis, and de- squamation.