TYPHOID FEVER 198 Spleen.—There is no relationship between the degree of enlargement of the spleen and the severity of the attack. Vomiting at the onset of the disease does not affect the prognosis. Coming on late in the disease it is unfavourable, often indicating peritonitis, perforation, or other local lesion or renal failure. Condition of the Bowels.—Where there is deep ulceration there is generally severe diarrhoea, and though the converse is not the case, there is a general agreement that cases with severe diarrhoea are less favourable than those with constipation. Diarrhoea is especially bad when it comes on late in the disease, and at all times it tends to dry up the tongue and to drain the tissues of fluid. It also prevents the absorption of mitriment from the alimentary canal, and contributes to exhaustion. The best indication of commencing convalescence is the passing of " formed " motions. Melmna. — Though no amount of melsena renders recovery impossible, and Trousseau and others regarded it as a favourable event, when it occurs in any quantity it is a most serious symptom, not only threatening death from loss of blood from one or repeated bleedings, but because it implies deep ulceration, and therefore often the precedent of perforation. Likewise the ansemia it produces increases the tendency to exhaustion and asthenia. Perforation may be recovered from, as proved by Murchison's cases, where a pin-point perfor- ation had all but healed, when erysipelas carried off the patient. But the frequency of such an occurrence must not be estimated by the many reports of cases of recovery from perforation inferred from symptoms compatible with it. Other conditions produce similar symptoms as operative procedure has several times con- clusively proved. And though it is possible a pin-point perforation, with but little oozing of intestinal contents, may be recovered from, it is almost certain that any case of perforation with evidences sufficient to diagnose it will allow escape of intestinal contents, and that fatal peritonitis will ensue. Tympanites.—Sudden supervention of marked tympanites is of bad augury, and great disten- tion is unfavourable under any circumstances ; but above all, it is so when the belly is not only distended, but is also soft and doughy, indicat- ing complete loss of nerve tone. Abdominal pain often indicates deep ulcer- ation, especially of the colon, and is unfavour- able, and often followed by maltena or perforation. Incontinence of Faeces is not so grave as it is in other diseases. In them it is usually indi- cative of profound affection of the nerve centres, but in typhoid local conditions—tympanites, diarrhoea, and the liquidity of the motions—are often the main factors. Respiratory System.—" Sipping " rapid breath- ing, with cyanosis and subjective dyspnoea, but without physical signs of lung affection, is of very fatal augury, being due to blood-poisoning. Pneumonia, with the oi'dinary marked physical signs, occurring at the commencement of, or at any time during the attack, is usually recovered from, but pneumonia coming on insidiously, with dulness on percussion, and crepitations, but without tubular breathing, especially on both sides of the chest, is apt to gradually invade increasing portions of lung. It is prob- ably due to septic rather than typhoid infection, and is very fatal. Acute general bronchitis is a very serious complication. Pleurisy is often recovered from if non-suppurative. Empyema may result from small abscesses in lung arising from septic pneumonia, and may be recovered from. Rapidity of pulse is an unfavourable sign ; the deaths progressively increasing as the pulse-rate rises over 120 a minute (Murchison). A pulse of 130 per minute is serious, of 140 means grave danger, and a pulse of 150 is rarely recovered from, especially in men. Death may occur when the pulse has never been over 90 a minute. Irregularity or intermittency of pulse is unfavourable, except after the pyrexia has quite subsided, and in children, in whom it is common. The pulse-rate is the most im- portant guide we have in the prognosis of typhoid fever. A persistence of quick pulse though the pyrexia falls foretells a continuance or exacer- bation of the disease. Anaemia.—There is often great emptiness of vessels and want of blood in the late stages, especially of long attacks, and the asthenia re- sulting from this is of grave import. Pyrexia.—A temperature of 107° has been recovered from, and cases with normal or sub- normal temperature throughout have been fatal; nevertheless, the temperature range is to some extent a gauge of the severity of the attack, and a temperature at any time of 105° or over indicates a severe attack. Of cases where the temperature rose to 105"8°, more than half died. A persistent high temperature without some amount of remission each day is less favourable than where remission occurs, and a well-marked remission each day of 2° is a good omen; but irregiilar sudden rises and falls are of exceed- ingly bad omen, indicating either local compli- cations or absorption of septic matter, or that the heat-regulating centres are so profoundly affected by toxic influences that they are thrown out of gear. A sudden fall may indicate in- testinal hsemorrhage (though the actual dis- charge of blood per rectum may be delayed some hours), or it may indicate perforation or the crisis of an intercurrent pneumonia. A sudden rise may be produced by the super- vention of lobar pneumonia or of peritonitis.