URINE, BACTERIA IN 308 may be established with the bowel. An inflam- mation of any of the surrounding structures may implicate the bladder wall directly, and sometimes the bladder may become infected indirectly, by the blood or lymph stream, from disease of a neighbouring organ. C. From the Mdney and wreter. In infection of the kidney, with gross lesions, it is universally admitted that urinary infection frequently occurs. It is still disputed, how- ever, whether a healthy kidney will allow the passage of bacteria from the blood-stream into the urine. It is known that in certain diseases, e.g. typhoid, pneumonia, and erysipelas, the specific micro-organisms sometimes make their appear- ance in the urine. In some of these cases the urine remains free from albumin, and at the same time there may be no symptoms of any affection of the kidney. Moreover, the kidney may be found healthy and free from infection on post-mortem examination. It has been argued, however, that morbid changes actually occur in these cases, but are only microscopical in degree and insufficient to give rise to any appreciable symptoms. It is manifestly almost impossible to disprove this theory as regards man, for it would entail, among other things, a complete histological examination of the kidneys by means of serial sections. Much of the experimental evidence is vitiated by the fact that the number of organisms in- jected into the circulation was larger than is within the fair limits of experiment. Wyssokowitscli showed that microbes injected into the circulation of animals rapidly diminish in number, and that saprophytes soon disappear altogether, whereas organisms which are patho- genic for the species experimented on show a siibsequent increase. He denied that physio- logical excretion ever took place. He failed to find injected bacteria in the urine before such time as he considered necessary for gross lesions of the kidney to be produced, and was always able to demonstrate naked-eye extravasation or small foci of cellular infiltration post-mortem when he found organisms in the urine. On the other hand, Biedl and Kraus were able to recover from the urine, in some cases at the end of twelve minutes, organisms which they had in- jected into the blood-stream, and they assumed that no change could have taken place in the kidney in so short a time. Von Klecki, using much smaller quantities, confirmed their results, in one experiment finding the organisms in the urine as early as three minutes after injection. He also found that they ceased to appear in the urine before they had disappeared from the circulation. On microscopical examination, after killing the animal, the organisms could be seen lying in the glomeruli without any asso- ciated histological change. Although objections can be and have been taken to the conclusion drawn from these experiments, namely, that organisms can pass through the " intact" kidney, the discussion is rather of academic interest, for it is clear that if some structural alteration is necessary before this can occur, it must be infinitesimal in degree and certainly less than can be appreciated clinically. In almost any severe infection where organisms may at one time or other be found circulating in the blood, the conditions in the kidney are such as would favour an escape of bacteria from it into the urine. Kraus, working at the urinary infections in infective diseases, recovered organisms from the urine in 36 out of 70 cases, but he only found those of the specific process in cases of typhoid fever and puerperal infections. The results of Kraus are of great interest because they tend to show that, with a lowered resistance, arising from many and varied infections, any organisms may penetrate into the blood-stream from the intestine, the pharynx, or other mucous surface which is not itself the seat of the morbid pro- cess. It follows from this that organisms found in the circulating blood are not necessarily those of the primary disease. A large number of recent observations point to the same conclusion. Posner and Lewin have shown that by simultaneous mechanical occlusion of the anus and urethra a general infection can be caused, and that organisms will then be found in the urine. That the urinary infection is not due to direct extension from the rectum to the bladder but takes place indirectly through the blood- stream, is proved by the fact that if one renal artery is also ligatured, infection of the corre- sponding kidney does not occur. Of late years a good deal of attention has been directed to cases in man, of cystitis or bacteri- uria, where this mode of origin has seemed prob- able. Hutinel, Hogge, and others have pointed out the frequent association of cystitis and in- testinal affections, the urinary infections in some cases probably taking place indirectly by way of the circulation. D. Infection of the bladder by the blood-stream. Although there is no theoretical objection to the bladder becoming infected and secondarily infecting the urine in this way, there is no evidence that this often happens. The best example is to be found in tubercular disease of the bladder, which sometimes occurs in the absence of any affection of any other part of the genito-urinary tract. The precautions which must be taken in collecting samples of urine for bacteriological examination vary considerably with the nature of the investigation required. For all ordinary purposes in the male, at any rate, it is sufficient after cleansing the meatus to allow the patient to pass some of his urine into a sterilised vessel; the first portion, which