244 UREMIA The onset may occur without any warning, or it may be preceded by various premonitory symptoms. Premonitory St/mpio7ns.—The most marked premonitory symptoms are constant headache, mental apathy, drowsiness, and vertigo ; nausea, or even vomiting, may sometimes occur, while in some few cases there may be severe dyspnoea. Occasionally there is marked diminution in the quantity of urine. Attention has been directed to a strange, fixed expression of the face, to dragging pains in the extremities, or to a tran- sient rigidity of the face, of the lower jaw, or of one of the limbs. Tremors, similar to those of paralysis agitans, have also been described. Abnormal hardness and high tension of the pulse comiuonly precede the more obvious symptoms of uraemia. Symptoms.—(i.) Convulsive Attacks.—The symptoms fall into two classes: Those due to paralytic affection of the brain and of some of the sensory centres, and those referable to irritation of the motor tract, leading to tonic and clonic convulsions. Frequently both types are present in varying degree. The immediate onset is often marked by sudden paroxysms of convul- sions of an epileptiform type, which may occur with or without premonitory symptoms. The patient becomes unconscious and convulsed; sensibility and reflex actions are lessened and frequently abolished. In slight cases the spasms may be confined to passing contractions of the muscles of the face or of the extremities, but in serious cases they may be more violent and general, and the whole body may be shaken with violent convulsions, while respiration falters and becomes stertorous. In such severe cases the patients foam at the mouth and grind their teeth, while faeces and urine may be passed involuntarily. The clonic spasms ordinarily only last a few minutes. When but one fit occurs the convul- sions cease gradually, and the patient passes into a drowsy or comatose condition, from which he may be partially roused for a short time, and again appears to fall asleep. After an inter- val, varying from a quarter of an hour to several hours, he awakes as from profound sleep. Generally, after a few hours or days, the attacks return with renewed vigour, the intervening stupor becomes more profound, and at last passes on to permanent coma. Death may occur during the comatose state, or at the height of one of the convulsive seizures. The clonic convulsions are sometimes uni- lateral, and may be preceded or replaced by tonic spasms, constituting "tetanic urtemia," which may be of long duration. Occasionally there are no spasms, the acute uraemia being marked by vomiting and an apathetic condition, which gradually passes on to coma or delirium. In a fatal case without convulsions recently observed aphasia and marked contraction of the pupils were the chief signs preceding coma. A convulsive attack is sometimes accompanied or followed by some form of motor paralysis, especially hemiplegia; this is frequently tran- sient and incomplete, but reflexes are abolished or diminished, and the condition may be followed by contracture. When the face is affected ptosis is exceptional, but conjugate deviation of the eyes has been observed. (ii.) Temperature. — During the convulsive attacks the temperature is generally low, or even subnormal, but in exceptional cases great rises of temperature have been noted. Low temperatures ranging from 86'1° Fahr. to 94'4° Fahr. have been noted in uraemia consecutive to diseases of the urinary passages ; it has been suggested that low temperatures are more frequent when uraemia affects persons advanced in years, or when it occurs in conjunction with exhausting conditions, such as vomiting, diarrhoea, or haemorrhages, or in connection with cancerous cachexia. In the rare cases in which the temperature has been found to rise as high as 105-8°, or even 107"4°, this sudden elevation has always been followed by a rapid fall. (iii.) The Pupils.—During the convulsion and subsequent coma the pupils usually retain their sensitiveness to light, but authorities are not agreed about their size. Fagge says they are more often contracted or normal, while Wagner states that they are as a rule dilated, seldom small; in my experience I have found no definite change with sufficient frequency to warrant a general statement. (iv.) Special Senses, Sight and Hearing.— Convulsions may be followed by dimness of vision or even by actual blindness, which may be transient or permanent. The condition has been attributed to transient oedema of the retina, or to oedema of the brain. Ophthalmo- scopic examination during uraemic amaurosis generally gives negative results, and the pupil- lary reflex is intact. Vision may be regained after twenty-four or thirty-six hours, and recovery has been known to occur even after seventeen days of total blindness. The sense of hearing is comparatively rarely affected, but occasionally it is impaired as the result of uraemia. Singing in the ears, difficulty in hearing, or complete deafness may suddenly supervene and depart as quickly. Uraemic deafness has been attributed to minute haemor- rhages in the cochlea, but, from the rapidity of recovery, it is far more probable that it generally depends upon some toxic influence acting upon the auditory centre. 2. Chronic Uraemia. — The most obvious symptoms of chronic uraemia are those connected with the respiratory and digestive systems, but several distinctly cerebral symptoms are to be noted, and there are good grounds for believing