558 WRIST-JOINT DISEASES rheumatic. Apparently it may exist without actual invasion of the sheaths by infective organisms. Acute pain and great stiffness of the fingers are the chief symptoms; in the first few days of the disease soft adhesions may be felt to break down on movement of the fingers. The adhesions, if left to themselves, will eventually become so firm as to render the fingers useless. The treatment consists in rest- ing the hand in a sling for a week and applying hot fomentations in tiie acute stage ; after that has passed, at the end of the week, passive movements and massage should be begun and should be continued till patience and persever- ance are at length rewarded. If the surgeon should encounter the condition at a later stage than the first, repeated attempts must be made to break down adhesions under nitrous oxide anaesthesia, with massage and movements in the intervals. (c) Acute Serous Teno-Synovitis {see "Joints, GONORBHCEAL ARTHRITIS "). Chronic tbno-synovitis occurs in two forms, usually in the palmar sheath :— [a) Simple Chronic Teno-Synovitis. — The only symptom in this form is a painless, slowly growing swelling, which hardly interferes at all with movement of the wrist or fingers. In the palm it sometimes extends above and below the annular ligament, under which the fluid can be pressed from one compartment to the other. The wall of the sheath is not appreciably thickened ; it contains a clear pale yellow fluid. Treatment.—The swelling should be incised above the annular ligament, and a drainage tube inserted and kept in as long as needful; passive movements should be begun gently after a week. (b) Villous Teno-Synovitis.—This is an affec- tion which might be mistaken for tubercular teno-synovitis, but is a distinct disease, re- sembling arthritis deformans in joints. The tendon sheath is markedly thickened and lined with villous projections, and is distended with fluid. The symptoms in this form are the presence of a swelling which fluctuates, and at the same time gives the sensation produced by the outgrowths; the free fluctuation and absence of tubercular symptoms will help to distinguish it from tuberculosis. Treatment.— A somewhat severe operation is required, at least if the sac extend above and below the annular ligament. The ligament must be divided, and the whole sac dissected out; the ligament is then sutured and the wound drained. Rest and passive movements are combined in the later stages as before. Tubercular Osteomyelitis of the Meta- carpal Bones.—This is a chronic tubercular osteomyelitis which frequently affects the meta- carpal bones of children, and still more com- monly the phalanges of the fingers (tubercular dactylitis). The disease attacks the medulla, producing the usual tissue of tuberculosis, while the compact shell is gradually eaten away from within; at the same time the periosteum deposits new bone on the surface, with the result that the tube of bone has the appearance of having been expanded from within. When the subperiosteal deposit is slight, or is wanting, the shell becomes as thin as parchment, and eventually gives way, leading to abscess and sinus formation. Symptoms.—The patient is usually a weakly child, and for long the only symptom noted is a gradually increasing swelling seen best on the dorsal surface of the hand ; the fusiform or " bottle-shaped" character of the swelling is not, of course, so evident in a meta- carpal bone as in a phalanx. Little pain or tenderness is complained of till the superficial parts become inflamed, when, in addition, the swelling will increase rapidly, the skin will redden and break down, and a sinus will form leading to the centre of the bone. Treatment. —Treated at an early stage cases of this disease may be absolutely cured. The congestive bandage and a splint should first be tried. If these fail, iodoform emulsion should be injected into the bone. These cases are admirably suited for this, as the bone can be easily pierced by the injecting syringe and the whole cavity filled with the emulsion. If the disease has pro- gressed too far to be arrested by these means the bone should not be excised; the swelling should be incised for its whole length, the cavity of the bone thoroughly scraped, swabbed, if needful, with undiluted carbolic acid, and packed with gauze. The usual constitutional means for combating tuberculosis are peculiarly successful too. Writer's Cramp, Palsy or Spasm. See Neuroses, Occupation (Eti- ology) ; Spasm (Varieties). Writing'. See Blind, Training and Education of (Braille Writing-Frame); Hyp- notism (Experimental Phenomena, Automatic Writing); Mirror-Writing. Wry-i^eck or Torticollis. Varieties ...... 558 Etiology . . . . . . 559 Treatment— Operative ..... 560 Subcutaneous Method . . 560 Open Method .... 560 After-Treatment . . . .561 Spasmodic Wry-Neck . . . . 561 Treatment . . . . . 562 See also Deformities ; Hysteria (Contrac- tures) ; Hysteria, Surgical Aspects of. The term torticollis (torqueo, tortum, twist; collum, neck) is applied to any vicious position of the head of a more or less persistent nature, whatever its cause.