TUMOURS OF THE SKIN 172 As the name indicates the disease is contagious. It may be seen to occur in mother and suckling, about the breasts of the former and the face of the infant. The condition is also found about the nape of those who indulge in what the late Sir Richard Burton referred to as the "absurdly called" Turkish bath, and who neglect to spread their towel over the blocks used as head-rests. Salzer has recorded an interesting case of the eyelids in a lady in the habit of feeding pigeons. The development of the growths in her case coincided with an epidemic disease among the birds, the chief symptoms of which were growths about the beak, and emaciation. The growths on the beaks were like those in Bollinger's plate of epithelioma contagiosum in fowls. (This name, by the way, is the German equivalent for our molluscum contagiosum.) Shattock has exhibited growths of the same kind in buntings; and I have myself had a canary which developed a small tumour of the beak, became emaciated, and died, the growth no doubt belonging to this category. The treatment is to lay each little tumour open with a knife, the back of which is dii'ected towards the skin, and thoroughly squeeze out the contents between the thumb nails or the handle of the scalpel and thumb nail, as Rad- cliffe-Crocker recommends. Even the smallest should be dealt with, for they will grow and become a source of fresh ones. They may be touched with a wooden match-end dipped in acid nitrate of mercury, but a small incision as aforementioned is the better way. Adenoma SEijACEUM —This condition had been described under various names before it received the one of adenoma sebaceum. It consists of small growths, from a millet seed to a split pea in size, distributed about the sides of the nose and naso-labial folds, in which situations the lesions are usually very closely aggregated, whereas on the chin, cheeks, and forehead they are more discretely scattered. They are more or less convex, varj'ing from an almost colourless hue to a bright red, the latter being due to small dilated vessels. The disease is congenital, and the lesions gradually increase in size and number. In the majority of cases the patients are mentally dull or epileptics. They are to be found in asylums for idiots. But in some instances there is no sign of intellectual inferiority. In many, small fibromata are scattered about the skin. Radcliflfe-Crocker has pointed out that associated with the disease there is frequently a flat fibrous-looking infiltrated patch about one or other iliac crest. A careful examination would differentiate it from acne rosacea, which it resembles in dis- tribution, but not in the history, mode of de- velopment, and character of the individual lesions. It is essentially a sebaceous growth, but the microscopical features have varied somewhat in individual cases. Owing to the toughness of the growths, sharp spooning has to be done vigorously, and even then recurrence may take place. Where the lesions are few in number Radcliffe-Crocker found electrolysis effectual; in another case, where the lesions were semi-confluent about the naso-labial folds, he excised portions, bring- ing the edges together to heal by first inten- tion. Epithelioma adenoidbs cysticum is the name given by Brooke of Manchester to a condition of the skin of the face chiefly characterised by small pearly or pinkish growths, usually rounded and smooth, from a pin-head to a small pea in size, distributed about the eyelids, the root of the nose, forehead, naso-labial folds, and chin, but they may also occur on the upper part of the trunk. It begins usually about adoles- cence, affecting both sexes, but giving no trouble except for the disfigurement. Microscopically it is an epithelial growth, but it is benign (hence name of multiple benign cystic epithelioma, which has also been given to it). But the possibility of true epitheliomatous de- velopment must be borne in mind ; this occurred in a case of White's of Boston. Authors have described variations in the microscopical features, hence a whole string of names which need not be enumerated here. Curetting or excision are the best ways of dealing with these small growths. But elect- rolysis and cauterization have also been recom- mended. Fibroma, Neuro-Fibroma, and Neuroma {see general article on "Tumours," p. 151). Keloid has been dealt with in vol. ii. p. 149. But a few remarks may be allowed here. In the first place, true keloid must be distinguished from hypertrophic scarring. In the latter case, when the hypertrophy re- mains limited to the original scar, without a tendency to spread into the surrounding tissues in the characteristic claw-like manner, it cannot strictly be included in the category of true keloid, but the dividing line is sometimes a fine one. Keloidal or hypertrophic scarring has been described as occurring after vaccination. In a case of Ehlers, of Copenhagen, this complication attacked five vaccinated areas in a child of six and a half. The interest of this case lies in the fact that the lesions were subjected to the Finsen light treatment, but without any good effect. Radcliffe-Crocker has employed the X- rays in a similar case. It would be interesting to know if negroes, who are racially very prone to true keloid, frequently react in this way to vaccination. Another mode of treatment for hypertrophic scars is the local injection of an 8 per cent