351 UTERUS, NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE in size should always excite suspicion of some untoward change in the growth. The rate of growth is uncertain, as there are no means of fixing the time of its commencement. Each case must be watched carefully and judged on its merits. The size of the tumour may also vary from time to time spontaneously to a remarkable degree. A decrease may be observed after rest in bed, more frequently after a profuse period, and after parturition, sometimes after a merely exploratory laparotomy. Sterility is frequent in women afflicted with fibroids, and may be explained in part by the endometritis which is often present, and in part by the frequent complicating diseases of the from loss of sleep and rest, from want of appetite, and from nervous debility. At last, even if the tumour undergoes no degenerative change, and no serious complication appears, the patient becomes a chronic bed-ridden invalid. Complications of Fibroids. — Most authors agree that the percentage of complications in cases of fibroids is large. Twambly {Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, May 1897) estimated that 50 per cent of the cases of interstitial fibroids were accom- panied by disease of the Fallopian tubes. Meredith, analysing Tait's cases {Brit. Med. Jour., 1890), found 54 per cent tubal disease and 46 per cent chronic ovaritis. Lately, three analyses gave the following results :— Dr. Ch. Noble. Dr. Ch. Cullingworth. Mrs. Scharlieb. 218 Consecutive Cases. 100 Consecutive Cases. 100 Consecutive Cases. Hydrosalpinx 13 Hydrosalpinx 5 Hydrosalpinx . . . . 4 Pyosalpinx 8 Serious adhesions . 12 Pyosalpinx . . . , 1 Haematosalpinx 1 Dilated ureters and hydrone- Adhesions . . . . 6 Salpingitis 7 phrosis .... 1 Cysts or cystomata . 23 Ectopic gestation . Ovarian cysts 3 Dilated ureters, hydrone- Parovarian cysts 2 27 phrosis, suppurative pyel- Thrombosis, before operation . 2 Ovarian abscess 1 itis, etc. .... 1 Varicose veins of pelvis 4 Parovarian cysts . 2 Ectopic gestation . 1 Fibroma of Fallopian tube 1 TAvisted pedicle 2 Papillomata of apjjendages Incarceration of tumour . Pregnancy . . . . Appendicitis . . . . 1 5 1 1 ovaries and tubes. In another group of cases conception occurs, but abortion or miscarriage supervenes. Lastly, pregnancy may be ended intentionally or accidentally by surgical inter- ference. On the whole, fibroids appear to be more common in sterile than in fertile women. A venous hum, resembling the souffle heard during pregnancy, may be sometimes recognised in cases of fibroid tumours. Probably it is due to the rushing of the blood in the large sinuses of the capsule. One or more of these symptoms, such as hfemorrhage, pain, and discharge, may combine to present us with a typical clinical picture. In the early stages of a fibroid's career there may be no distinctive symptoms, and the small tumour may be discovered by accident when the patient is examined for a supposed displacement, or to ascertain whether an eai'ly pregnancy exists. In some cases this absence of marked symptoms persists, and the patient remains in good health, even though a large tumour is present. In many cases, however, the patient gradually becomes ansemic, with pale skin, white lips and mucous membranes, the ears look as if modelled in pale yellow wax. She is breathless on exertion, and complains of faintness, palpita- tion, and dyspepsii. If the disease continues unchecked and pain coexists with haemorrhage, the woman is still more wretched. She suffers These pelvic complications may bear relation to fibroids as being coincidents or effects— probably they are most frequently effects. The tumour interferes with the pelvic circulation and frequently dislocates the organs. When it is situated in the fundus or the posterior wall of the uterus it may cause retroversion or retro- flexion, and the appendages are thus dragged out of their normal position. Pregnancy is one of the gravest complications of fibroids, pai'tly from the enhanced risk of mechanical obstruction during parturition, partly from the increased risk of post-partum haemor- rhage, and partly from the danger of bruising or other injury impairing the vitality of the tumour {see " Indications for Operation," p. 354). Adhesions are a fairly common, and may be a very formidable complication. They occur after peritonitis however excited, (1) by extension of inflammation from the tumour itself, or (2) in consequence of inflammation of neighbouring organs, and (3) in cases where treatment by electrolysis has been tried. Adhesions are common, tough, and abundant where the sharp electrode has been plunged into the tumour or into the normal uterine tissue in which it is embedded. Fhlehitis, phlegmasia dolens, thrombosis, and embolism occur both during the existence of fibroids and after operation for their removal.