598 YELLOW FEVER to sun and air, and the prevention of overcrowd- ing. As there is reason to believe that native children maintain the infection, their febrile complaints should be attended to, and the con- tamination of mosquitoes prevented by surround- ing their beds with mosquito netting. Were these measures vigorously carried out there is Chart 6. good reason to hope that this scourge might be greatly mitigated. To prevent the infection of ships in ports where the disease is present, they should be moored at some distance from the shore or an infected vessel. As mosquitoes are conveyed from shore in lighters this mode of infection DAY I E. 3 6 6 7 % HOUR E F M e. B M E E 105 I04 I03 lOE 101 100 99 99 97 9S / ». »• -> V Chart 6. should be guarded against. It has been suggested to fumigate them with sulphur before they are brought alongside the ship. Unacclimatised sailors should be prevented from landing especially by night. When the disease makes its appearance on board a vessel while in harbour the sick should be removed to hospital, the crew and passengers transferred to a quarantine station or camp, the cargo disembarked, and the vessel disinfected by sulphurous acid or formaldehyde, clothing and bedding by steam, and the furniture and decks by solution of corrosive sublimate. When yellow fever declares itself at sea the sick are to be isolated, and the infected quarters evacuated and disinfected. When possible, a course should be steered for colder latitudes. For preventing the introduction of the disease into healthy towns reliance is to be placed on the inspection of vessels from infected ports, the isolation of the sick, and the supervision of the healthy. Disinfection is as necessary in the case of vessels having had the disease on board during the voyage as in the case of those on which there are sick persons on arrival. Deten- tion, however long, is no safeguard. The principal means of combating the disease when it appears on shore are prompt isolation of sick and contacts, and thorough disinfection of the houses and belongings of the sick. When these means fail the evacuation of the infected district has been carried out with the best re- sults. When yellow fever breaks out in barracks the men should be camped out, all contaminated baggage, bedding, and clothing being left behind for disinfection, and the camp changed if fresh cases should occur. Susceptible persons should remove from an infected locality. Treatment.—It is of primary importance to remove the patient, when possible, from the focus of infection to a healthy locality. A marked amelioration of the symptoms is often found to follow the removal of a patient to an airy room in a healthy part of the town. In the milder cases the treatment should be mainly hj'gienic. Constipation is to be obviated by purgatives, the action of the kidneys pro- moted by alkaline drinks, and the temperature moderated by tepid spongings. Constipation is generally present, and in the more severe cases, at least, it is well to administer at once 5 to 10 grains of calomel, followed next day by sulphate of sodium. The calomel may sometimes be advantageously repeated, as, apart from its purgative and bactericidal properties, it has often a marked effect in diminishing gastric irritability. Castor oil is a favourite purgative with some, but its nauseous taste not infre- quently brings on troublesome or even danger- ous vomiting. Experience sanctions the use of a warm mustard foot-bath at the beginning of the illness. The feet and legs are placed in water as warm as can be borne, to which mustard has been liberally added, and the patient is enveloped in a blanket. This pro- motes perspiration, and relieves, temporarily, the headache and pains, and, if the perspiration be free, the fever is lessened. When the temperature is high one or two doses of antipyrine, given at the early stage when the pulse is strong, are occasionally of service.