535 WOUNDS cells. The important function of forming new connecting tissue appears to be mainly if not wholly performed by the last-mentioned group. They become fusiform or otherwise modified in shape, and put forth slender fibrils which blend with similar offsets from other cells in their vicinity; and as repair advances, the exudate is in this way penetrated by a network of delicate interlacing fibres stretching across the track of the wound and effecting organic union of its walls. Blood-vessels develop for the conveyance of pabulum to the young fibrous growth : they appear as buds jutting from the walls of capillaries, and elongate into proto- plasmic cords with tapering ends, which unite with like processes from neighbouring capil- laries so as to form arches; canalisation takes place, and circulation of blood is established throvigh the anastomotic loops thus formed. Meanwhile the redundant portions of the exudate are removed: fluid is drained away by the absorbents, surviving leucocytes migrate— some perhaps laden with molecular particles of disorganised structures ingested by phagocy- tosis, and the fixed tissue cells further assist in the work of scavenging. With the roofing-in of the surface by epithelium proliferated from the rete Malpighii, bordering on the edges of the wound, healing is complete, although the permanent condition of the fibro-vascular nexus—technically, the cicatrix or scar—is not attained for some months, during which gradual contraction goes on, leading to attenuation of the blood-vessels and shortening and conden- sation of the fibres. 2. Healing by the Intermediation of Blood- clot.—To a greater or less extent this mode of repair occurs in a large proportion of wounds united by first intention, inasmuch as small masses of coagulum collect in hollows and fissures opening from the cut wall; but it is seen in its typical form when a layer of clot of varying thickness separates the sides of a wound and prevents their close contact. Den- dritic projections reach from the main mass into the divided blood-vessels, and the whole at first serves the useful purpose of a plastic cement supporting the wounded structures. Inflammatory exudation ensues upon the injury, and the exudate spreads as a thin coating between the clot and the tissues, whilst leuco- cytes and other migratory cells wander into the former, which now constitutes a matrix for the developing network of fibres and capillary loops. Pari passu with advancing tissue-genesis the blood-clot becomes decolorised and removed by disintegration and absorption of its corpuscles and fibrin. In the later stages epithelial cells restore the continuity of the surface. 3. Healing under a Scab.—In some cases where the margins of a wound are not actually touching, and the superficial stratum of exudate or blood-clot, or a mingling of both, dries up, the resulting crust is called a scab, and it may suffice to seal the aperture. Assuming that asepsis of the interior has been secured, the scab is a good barricade against bacterial in- fection later on; and under these circum- stances union of the raw surfaces proceeds by first intention—quickly if the surfaces are touching, more slowly if there is an intervening clot. Epithelium grows across from the edges beneath the scab; and when the latter event- ually falls off", the healed seam of the cicatrix is disclosed. When a dry crust covers the surface of a shallow wound made by superficial loss of substance, healing takes place by granu- lation, as described below. 4. Healing by Granulation or Second Inten- tion.—Septic infection—a danger very likely to be met with in wounds of mucous membrane, and in accidental wounds generally, or those not carefully safeguarded against contamination — sets up a more energetic local reaction than is presented by the foregoing types, and is accompanied with a much greater amount of tissue-degeneration. Under these circumstances recovery is somewhat delayed, healing being effected by the second intention, a comparatively slow process, exhibiting phenomena in which granulations play a conspicuous part. In the first instance, the injury excites a traumatic inflammation, but the limits of this are widely transgressed by the irritation conse- quent upon the invasion of micro-organisms be- longing to the class of pyogenic bacteria. Those usually found include the common varieties of staphylococcus (S. pyogenes aureus, S. pyogenes albus) and streptococcus (S. pyogenes) ; but it would seem that other fungi also possess the power of inducing, or at all events promoting, the formation of pus, e.g. the gonococcus, the pneumococcus, and the bacillus coli communis. Once securing a lodgment in the damaged structures, the bacteria are able to excrete peptonising agents, and to produce poisonous chemical compounds (toxins), which are ex- tremely hurtful to the tissues exposed to their action. By a kind of digestion, fibres, cells, and intercellular substance are softened and more or less disintegrated and dissolved, the resulting degenerative products being washed out by the copious liquid exudate escaping from blood-vessels in the site of inflammation, many leucocytes being at the same time cast off". On the other hand, some of the toxic material may enter the general circulation and bring about constitutional disturbance. Locally, the dis- charge from the wound thickens, assuming the yellowish colour of pus, and suppuration is established. The constituents of pus comprise fluid derived from the blood and liquefied tissue, numerous leucocytes, some altered tissue-cells, necrotic particles of fibres and corpuscles, and pyogenic cocci; besides leucin, tyrosin, and peptone. As the stress of the attacking infec-