WATER 520 rate of mortality is practically uninfluenced by the softness or hardness of the water supplied to the different towns." The opinion that " soft water" increases the tendency to rickets and " hard water " to the production of renal calculi is quite unfounded. The late Sir B. Ward Richardson was strongly of opinion that hard waters produced dyspeptic symptoms in pei'sons unaccustomed to their use, and it is probable that soft water has a tendency to produce diarrhoea in persons accustomed to the use of hard water. Both effects are probably very temporary, and may account for the derange- ments from which persons visiting health resorts frequently sufifer. There are many makers of water-softening apparatus, some of which are adapted for use in mansions, public institutions, etc. Probably the most generally useful is the one made by the Maignen " Filtre Rapide " Co., which softens and filters the water automatically. From what has been said, it will be evident that a water which does not contain such an excess of saline matter as to cause it to be too hard, and is free from lead or from an excessive amount of iron or zinc, and which gives no indications of sewage matter, and of more than a trace of vegetable matter, is hygienically pure and fit for domestic purposes. Whether this is so or not can be fairly well determined by bacteriological and chemical examination, but no such examination can be depended upon to indicate danger of pollution. A source which may usually yield a pure water may, if not properly protected, suffer from occasional con- tamination, and is therefore unsafe. Quite re- cently I investigated an outbreak of typhoid fever which the Medical Officer of Health attri- buted to the use of water from a certain spring. A sample of the water was sent to an analyst, who certified that it was pure, and went out of his way to assert that it could not possibly have caused typhoid fever. Upon investigation I found that the spring water had recently been noticed to become turbid after rain (always suggestive of pollution), and the cause was traced to a sewer broken at the crown. During dry weather no sewage escaped, during heavy rains the sewer filled, and sewage matter escaped and polluted the spring. Further, the sewer was traced to an isolation hospital in which there had been a case of typhoid fever, and a sample of the water collected after a heavy rainfall was found upon analysis to be highly polluted. An examination of the source of supply is therefore even more important than an analysis, and the nature of the source should always be considered when giving an opinion. Where a source is obviously open to pollution an analysis is unnecessary; where there is no possible source of pollution near the analysis is of little importance, and might almost be con- fined to the examination for hardness and noxious metals. For sanitary purposes the chemical examination is generally confined to the estima- tion of the hardness, chlorides, nitrites, nitrates, lead, iron and zinc, and ammoniacal and organic matter. The bacteriological examination may include the examination of the number of bacteria per cubic centimetre capable of growing on nutrient jelly, and tests for the presence of the bacillus coli communis and bacillus enteri- tides sporogenes, organisms always found associ- ated in sewage and manure. The physical properties, colour, odour, and turbidity should also be noted. Such examinations require to be performed in a fairly equipped laboratory, in fact they are best undertaken in laboratories established especially for the purpose. I, how- ever, have devised a small cabinet containing all the requisites for a simple chemical analysis. It is made by Messrs. Burroughs Wellcome & Co. That the cabinet and process is fairly satisfactory may be inferred from the fact that it has been adopted by Government, and a special case devised for saddle or shoulder. In this method ^ the reagents are in the form of " soloids," which keep well and contain a definite quantity in each. All the above chemical deter- minations can be made, and with a knowledge of the source from which the water is supplied, in the great majority of cases a correct opinion upon the character of the water can be given. In the ordinary laboratory the examination is made in the following manner: — Colour and Turbidity.—-Fill a lOOc.c. cylinder, place on a white slab and look down the column of liquid. Note the appearance. Odour.—Put about 100 c.c. into a boiling flask, warm to about 120° F. Insert the rubber stopper, shake vigorously, remove the stopper, and apply immediately to the nostrils. Residue left on Evaporation. ■— Evaporate about 20 c.c. to dryness in a platinum or porce- lain dish. Note character of residue, then ignite very gently, and note any change which occurs. Nitrites.—Place about 50 c.c. of the water in a Nessler glass, add 1 c.c. of zinc iodide and starch solution, and 1 c.c. of dilute hydrochloric acid. Allow to stand for five minutes. A blue colour indicates nitrites. Nitrates.—If nitrites are absent add a minute quantity of zinc dust and stir. A blue colour will develop more or less rapidly according to the amount of nitrates present. If the water contains very little nitrate, 50 or 100 c.c. must be taken for the next experiment; if much is present, 5 to 20 c.c. will suffice. In a 250 c.c. tubulated flask, place 20 or 30 grams of granulated zinc, coat with copper in the usual way, wash well, then add 100 c.c. of distilled water and 20 c.c. of caustic soda solu- tion. Distil, collecting 10 c.c. at a time until 1 A Simple Method of Water Analysis, 3rd edition, 2s. 6d. J. & A. Churchill, London.