25 THYROID GLAND, SURGERY OF is either enucleation or excision. Tracheotomy should never be resorted to if it can be avoided. If for any good and sufficient reason it should be found impracticable, even in cases of non-malig- nant disease, to remove a swelling pressing in- juriously upon the trachea, then tracheotomy might have to be resorted to as the only ex- pedient possible. The difficulties and risks of the operation may be found to be very great indeed. The veins of the neck are often, in malignant disease, for which the operation is most likely to be called for, large and distended with blood. There may be great difficulty in reaching the trachea, either because it is em- bedded in the growth, or displaced and perhaps altered in shape, or it may be both embedded and displaced to a considerable extent, rendering the operation one of enormous difficulty. The trachea may be displaced to the outside of the carotid artery. The high operation should be performed ; usually no other is practicable, and it may be found necessary to cut through growth to get into the trachea. Having opened the trachea, it will usually be found that the ordi- nary tracheotomy tube is not long enough to reach sufficiently low to relieve the difficulty in Tareathing, and that a special tube must be used for the i-elief of dyspnoea in malignant diseases of the thyroid. The relief gained has usually been only very temporary, and life has been prolonged for but a short time. Thyroid Gland, Therapeutics of.—The administration of some preparation of the thyroid gland is now universally recog- nised to be the specific treatment for myxcsdema and cretinism. When the treatment was first introduced attempts were made to transplant the gland of one of the lower animals to the body of the patient; but the eff'ects of such procedures, although beneficial at first, dimin- ished, and finally ceased as the gland became absorbed by the tissues of the host. Next, thyroid feeding was carried out by the ad- ministration by the mouth of the sheep's gland itself, either raw, lightly cooked, or minced up and spread on bread. Excellent results were obtained, but the method is obviously in- convenient. A glycerin extract made by soaking the gland in an equal quantity of glycerin for twenty-four hours and then squeezing out the active ingredients will keep for a considerable period. It is given in doses of from 3 to 15 minims. The Liquor Thyroidei of the B.P. is made in a similar manner with the addition of carbolic acid ("5 per cent). Thyroideum Siccum, the dry powdered thyroid of the sheep, is the form now most commonly employed. It is given in doses of from 1 to 15 grs. or more often in cachet or in the convenient form of the tablets of thyroid extract (1^ and 5 grs. in each). At the commencement of treatment a small dose is prescribed, and this is gradually increased until the proper dose for the particular patient is determined. In myxcedema and cretinism the administration must be kept up permanently. Thyroglandin is a dry thyroid extract given in pills of 1 gr. or tablets of 2 grs. lodothyrine, prepared from the pancreatised gland by extraction with petroleum ether, solution in soda, and precipitation with sulphuric acid, is made up in the form of tablets, each containing 5 grs. " In myxcedema " the dosage may be in the form of minute amounts daily, or as full quantities for a few days in each month. In some cases of obesity the use of thyroid has given good results, but care must be exercised in treating such cases with this drug. It has been recommended in large doses in certain forms of mania, melancholia, and dementia. Good results have been obtained from heroic doses of thyroid in the prevention and relief of early symptoms of eclampsia. It has been tried at various times in exophthalmic goitre, but the general opinion now is that it is positively contra - indicated in this disease. Cases of psoriasis and chronic eczema have been temporarily benefited by the administra- tion of thyroid. Its precise value in various other diseases, in the treatment of which it is being given more or less experimentally, has not yet been definitely decided. Overdoses cause headache, feeble rapid action of the heart, lowering of the blood-pressure, nausea, diarrhoea, restlessness, and rarely delirium. The action of the parathyroid glands is not yet fully understood, and preparations from them have not been introduced into general use. Anti- thyroid Serum (Moebius) is obtained from the serum of animals which have undergone thyroidectomy. It is given in doses of from 8-75 minims by the mouth or hypodermically in cases of exophthalmic goitre, but the results are inconclusive. The milk of thyroidectomised animals has also been employed in this disease. Rodagen is a powder consisting of the dried milk of thyroidectomised goats, with milk sugar added as a preservative. It is given in Graves' disease in doses of 5-10 grammes daily. Thyroid- ectine is prepared from the dried blood of thyroidectomised animals; it is given in doses of 5 grs. or more in cachet. None of these anti-thyroid preparations can be said to have given conclusively good results in the treatment of exophthalmic goitre. Thyroid ism. See Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre, Pathological Anatomy, Effect of Thyroid Extract). Thyroiditis, .^ee Thyroid Gland, Medi- cal {Thyroiditis, Acute). Thyroidotomy.—Incision of the thy- roid gland. ThyroprivUS.—A morbid state following upon loss or removal of the thyroid gland.