URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 288 the excretion shows a parallelism to that of urea. During acute fevers, such as pneumonia and typhoid fever, the excretion of kreatinine is increased, but it falls below the normal during convalescence from these diseases. In angemic states, in marasmus, and in association with tuberculous processes, a diminution has been observed. In cases of progressive muscular atrophy, and in pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis, a diminished output has been observed, but Macleod has failed to find such diminution in cases of muscu- lar atrophy. Macleod has recently demon- strated a very conspicuous diminution in cases with marked splenic enlargement. This diminu- tion, which attains to as much as 50 per cent of the normal excretion on kreatine-free diet, was equally conspicuous in cases in which the leucocytes of the blood were diminished in number, and in those in which there was marked leukaemia. The presence of kreatinine in the urine is easily demonstrated, but its mere detection is of no clinical value. For its quantitative estima- tion advantage is taken of the fact that it forms a sparingly soluble compound with zinc chloride. For a description of the processes available the reader is referred to works on urinary analysis. It is interesting to note that it was the green fluorescence observed when working at the esti- mation of kreatinine by a zinc chloride method, that led Jaffe to the discovery of urobilin, to the compound of which pigment with zinc chloride that fluorescence is due. VII. Some Abnormal Nitrogenous Con- stituents. Diamines, Leucin, and Tyrosin Diaminuria.—Of recent years two of the members of the class of diamines, viz. cadaverine or pentamethylene diamine, H2N(CH2)5NH2, and putrescine or tetramethylene diamine, H2N(CH2)4NH2, have been repeatedly met with in the urine in cases of cystinuria, and some- times in the fseces of cystinuric patients also. The original case in which this association was observed by Baiimann and Udranszky was peculiar in the constancy with which the dia- mines were present both in urine and faeces over a period of years. In some of the recent cases they have only been found at intervals, and in some not at all in a few observations. In no other instance has the same high propor- tion of diamines been found in the fseces. The two bases have sometimes been found in associa- tion, more often cadaverine has alone been found, and very seldom putrescine alone has been isolated. In the case referred to the quantities obtained amounted to some 0*2-0'4 grammes of the benzoyl compounds of the mixed diamines in the urine of twenty-four hours. In another case examined by P. J. Cammidge and the present writer similar quantities were ob- tained from the urine on two occasions only during a series of examinations extending over about a month. In no other condition have these diamines been found in amounts capable of detection in the urine of a single day, but in large quantities of the urine of patients with pernicious anaemia, collected and concentrated down, William Hunter was able to detect their presence in smaller quantities. From normal and most morbid urines they appear to be wholly absent. It is impossible to avoid the conclusion that some intimate connection exists between the excretion of cadaverine and pvitrescine and cystinuria, but no approach has yet been made to a solution of the problem of the nature of this connection. The occurrence of the diamines in the faeces of their patient in larger quantities than in his urine naturally led Udranszky and Baumann to attribiite their formation to bacterial action in the intestine, seeing that they are well-known products of bacterial activity. There are, how- ever, no grounds for supposing that cystin is formed in the intestine, and there is no ques- tion that the excretion of cystin may continue unchecked when the diamines are absent for a time both from urine and faeces. Moreigne and C. E. Simon have, on the other hand, suggested that in these cases the diamines, as well aa cystin, may be products of tissue metabolism. Two methods are in use for the detection of diamines in urine. That of Udranszky and Baumann involves the shaking of the total day's urine with benzoyl-chloride and an excess of sodium hydroxide solution. From the precipi- tate formed, which consists in part of earthy phosphates, the benzoyl compoimds of the dia- mines are extracted with hot alcohol. On pouring the alcoholic solution into water the benzoyl diamines, if present, separate in crystal- line form. In the alternative process of Stadthagen and Brieger the diamines are obtained in the form of crystalline picrates. Leucin and Tyrosin. — These are abnormal constituents of urine which are usually met with in association. Both are members of the class of amido-acids, but while leucin belongs to the fatty series, being amido-caproic acid (CgHjjNOg), tyrosin is an aromatic compound, viz. par-oxyphenyl-amido-propionic acid. Both are products of proteid decomposition. It is especially in cases of acute yellow atrophy of the liver that these substances appear in large amounts in the urine, so that their pre- sence becomes an important clinical feature of that disease. In cases of acute phosphorus- poisoning they are occasionally met with, but in smaller quantities. Their occurrence in phos- phorus-poisoning has even been denied, and von Jaksch has very seldom met with them in such cases. In severe febrile disorders, such as variola,