TINNITUS it is most important to attend to the local condition, as successful treatment of this may greatly help in combating the symptoms of insanity which may be present. If the noises are of an elaborate character and hearing is normal in every respect, treatment is more appi'opriately relegated to the alienist than to the aurist. If the hearing is abnormally acute (hyper- akusis oxyakoia) we have to counteract the neurasthenia, and to select specially those remedies which, while tending to relieve the neurasthenic condition, diminish the acuity of the auditory nerve. Of the latter bromide of potas- sium is a good type, but quinine is also possessed of such properties that small doses of this remedy have, in the author's experience, ap- peared at the same time to diminish the sensi- bility to sounds produced in the surroundings of the ears, and at the same time to give a slight fillip to the nervous system. In any given case it is difficult to say beforehand how it is going to act, but the writer believes that when the patient finds the sound of his own voice unpleasantly loud (apart from abnormal dilatation of the Eustachian tube), and when the condition of the internal ear is one of ansemia rather than congestion, the quinine is most appropriate ; it may be given in doses of ^ to 2 grs., and it is wise to combine with it 10 or 15 drops of dilute hydrobromic acid. Tinnitus nervosa has been found in some cases to yield to the continuous galvanic current. The positive pole is applied to the ear by means of a moistened pad, and a current of from two to four milliamperes is allowed to run for about ten minutes at a time, siidden interruptions being carefully avoided. Mental and bodily rest are often indispensable. Tirol. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Germany and Austria). Tisa,ne.—A decoction acting as a medicine, e.g. tisane de Feltz (decoction of sarsaparilla with isinglass and sulphuret of antimony). Tissue. See Physiology, The Tissues {Epithelium, Connective Tissue, Muscle, etc.). Tituba,tion.—A staggering gait (Lat. titubo, I stagger), due sometimes to disease of the nervous system, e.g. the cerebellum. Toast Water. See Invalid Feeding {Toast Water). Tobacco. See Tabaci Folia ; see also Amblyopia {Toxic, Tobacco); Angina Pectoris {Etiology, Poisons, Tobacco); Appetite {Loss) ; Colour Vision {Acquired Colour Blindness); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Eti- ology, Exciting Causes, Chemical); Retina and Optic Nerve {Central Retinal Affection, Toxic AURIUM 29 Influence); Toxicology {Alkaloids a7id Vegetable Poisons, Tobacco). Tobi Hi.—Pemphigus contagiosus. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics. Tobi MS Tube.—An inlet for air used in the ventilation of rooms and public buildings. See Ventilation and Warming {Inlets and Outlets). Tocodynamometer.—An instru- ment for measuring the expulsive action of the uterus in labour. ToCOlOg'y.—Obsteti'ics or midwifery (Gr. TOKOS, birth; Ao'yos, discourse). Todd alia.—Lopez root, the root of Tod- dalia aculeata, used as a bitter in Eastern countries for dyspepsia and dysentery; it is official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the B. P. of 1898; there are two preparations, the Infus^im Toddalim (dose, 1 to 2 fl. oz.), and the Liquor ToddalicB Concentratus (dose, h to 1 fl. dr.). Toes. See Ainhum ; Amputations {Toes); Brain, Physiology of {Functio7is of Cerebral Cortex, Motor Areas); Bronchi, Bronchiectasis {Clinical Phenomena, Clubbing of Toes) ; De- formities {Hallux Varus, Hallux Rigidus, Ham- mer-Toe, Toes, Deformities of, etc.); Fractures {Metatarsal Phalanges) ; Heart, Congenital Malformations op {Clubbing of Toes); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelae, Tender Toes). Toilet.—The washing or cleansing of a wound or of a body cavity during an operation, e.g. the peritoneal toilet in abdominal sections. Toisson's Solution.—A diluting solution for use in connection with haemato- cytometric estimations; it contains methyl violet, chloride and sulphate of sodium, neutral glycerine, and distilled water. Tokelau.—A skin disease of the Pacific Islands and Oceania; tinea imbricata or Bow- ditch Island Ringworm. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Tinea Imbricata). Tol U, Balsam of. See Balsamum Tolu- tanum. Toluene or Toluol.—Methylbenzene (C^-Hg, or, rather, CgH^CHg), a hydrocarbon ob- tained from coal-tar and used as a parasiticide ; from it is prepared toluidin (C^HyNHj), a homologue of aniline. Toluidin-Blue. — The double salt of dimethyltoluthionin and zinc chloride, which has been used in place of methylene blue in gonorrhoeal conjunctivitis. Toluylene-diamine. See hemo- globinuria {Toxic); Intestines, Diseases of