464 VICE maxim that every man must be a law unto himself. For it is clear that what is excess for one person may be of no bad eflect upon another. Each case must determine to what extent the indulgence can be permitted, and at what point the whole constitution loses more than it gains by it. The gross evidences of such an injury would be sought for in the skin and in muscle and nerve—pallor, flushings and pimples, tremor and restlessness going on to loss of sleep, with perhaps the addition ef per- verted appetite for food and drink. Nothing can be expected from a restatement of the appropriate treatment in such cases. Even if the physician detects signs of this vice in any of his patients, he will probably not feel justified in interference. When the patient comes with a frank confession and a sincere desire for a reform of his habits, the battle is half won, and nearly every such case should have a successful termination. The manage- ment of such a patient is a mere matter of common sense. Above all, the patient's atten- tion should be directed away from his habit, and not focussed upon it; that is, he must be encouraged to develop his spiritual and his physical nature to the highest pitch of fitness of which they are capable; and all the effort and enthusiasm that can be evoked should be explicitly directed to that end, with the least possible reference to the vice that makes the eff'ort necessary. That is true of most habits. We must remember that vice is supremely interesting, and especially to the vicious; that every victim of a depraved habit has an "in- verted gusto" in discussing it, even though it be in tears and with every token of repentance ; that the best chance for every one is to keep his mind fixed upon, and order his life so as to achieve, the other activities which he has been neglecting ; and if, after all, the vice persists, it is a great gain if the patient, notwithstanding his lapses, occupies his mind in his "lucid intervals" with things that are worthy and above reproach. To such an end wise com- panionship is almost indispensable. And for this and other vices we should remember the usefulness of the idea of postponement; that, while it is often impossible to persuade a patient to total abstinence, and very hard to get him to stick to a prescribed discipline, it is always useful, and appeals to his most manly instincts, to induce him to practice daily the trick of putting off' and off' the hour or the day of his indulgence. Many men are interested and even amused at testing their endurance, and have an added zest in expectation of the added pleasure which their postponement of it ensures, who could not be brought to even attempt total abstinence. Sexual Perversions.—^We may affirm, prob- ably without fear of refutation, that the great majority of the boarding-schools in this country are infested with sexual vice. The evidence of masters, and especially head-masters, is of the least possible value in this connection. We must go for evidence to "old boys" who have reached years of discretion, and who have learned to regard their sexual organs as wholesomely as they regard their other members, yet who have no interest in boasting or other exaggeration. Any one who is in a position to acquire the facts, and who takes pains to probe the subject, can convince himself that there is hardly a boarding-school in the country which is not, at least at times, a hot- bed of sexual vice. For obvious reasons, it occurs in epidemics, for it is of necessity con- tagious. This applies even to masturbation; the self-taught masturbator is about as rare as the self-taught drinker, for it is character- istic of the vice that its victim has a strong desire to communicate it to his fellows. And so at times in large boarding-schools the state of affairs is not only very bad, but, at least among the boys, quite notorious, and a few ringleaders, even openly jealous of each other's conquests, renew their Ibarely-concealed efforts to add to their train of followers. In such epidemics there comes to be some- thing like a cult of sexualism, and, if it were profitable to pursue the subject minutely, we should find many resemblances to the mystic rites of savage tribes. Not only do the boys vie with each other to discover new and attractive methods of sexual stimulation, but we hear also of the outcropping of the curious perverted instinct to inflict wounds upon them- selves and upon each other; of the bestowal of, for them, princely gifts upon the objects of their affection, as upon a mistress ; and even of the placing on a pedestal of some chosen child, perhaps more comely in appearance and in spirit than the rest, whom one of these leaders in vice will champion, and whose innocence he will protect with the most jealous care against both his own and his rivals' blandishments. On the other hand, it is only fair to say that at times the spirit of those same schools may turn from such vices, and show a corresponding zest in observing a clean and wholesome life. It is also most necessary to point out that what has been said refers only to boarding-schools, and that apparently the day-schools of the country are very rarely infested. The most difficult and perhaps the most important part of this problem is to determine to what extent such vices prevail among girls and women—difficult, because its investigation is one of insuperable delicacy in cases which it is most worth one's while to try to save; and important because it is next to impossible for a woman to persist in such practices with any- thing like an even mind. Many vicious men are comparatively happy, and live fairly cheer- ful and successful lives. Women cannot be so.