185 TYPHOID FEVER acute maniacal attacks alternate with perfectly quiet intervals. In severe cases stupor or actual coma occurs, and in some cases there is coma vigil or coma with wide-open eyes and constant movements of hands or tremor of limbs. A condition of trance may occur or of tempo- rary aphasia; in some a dazed state due ap- parently to loss of memory of where they are or who is attending on them, and often when the disease is over there is no recollection of anything that occurred. The pupils may be dilated in typhoid fever, but they are very often not so, and may be contracted. Deafness may be one of the earliest symptoms of typhoid, or come on at any time in the disease. Sometimes it is due to administration of quinine, sometimes to middle-ear disease, but most often appears to be a purely nervous affection. Tremor of tongue is mostly present, often also of limbs; both may become extreme. Much tremor is often associated with deep ulceration, but it may occur from toxaemia only. Sub- sultus tendinum or " carphology " may occur in protracted and severe cases, and may become associated with coma vigil, the patient lying in a stupor with open eyes—a condition mostly fatal. The deep reflexes are often but not invariably increased, and may be absent even without peripheral nerve changes. Convulsions may initiate the disease in children but are rare in adults except from ursemia or meningitis. (For other nervous phenomena, see Complications.) General Symptoms.—There is nothing charac- teristic in the early period in the general aspect of the patient, but with the continuance of the fever there is a dull, heavy expression, especially when the headache is severe. The decubitus is usually dorsal, but children especially, and even adults, may lie on either side—in later stages the patient tends to sink deep into the bed. There is often a suffused look about the face, which may be pale or the cheeks may be flushed. In well-nursed cases and where diarrhoea or complications are absent, there may be little loss of flesh, but the emaciation in severe cases is extreme, with haggard face and sinking eyes. The daily loss of weight has been estimated at from two to seven ounces per diem. Children especially rapidly emaciate. The skin may be pungent, hot and dry, or there may be profuse sweats, even though the pyrexia is severe. It is said a peculiar semi-cadaverous odour eman- ates from the skin. I have noticed it only in cases with septic complications. The eruption is present in a large proportion of cases. It consists of lenticular spots of delicate pink colour, about 2 to 4 mm. in diameter, very slightly raised, with margin shading into surrounding skin, fading on pres- sure. They may be slightly vesicular, they rarely appear before the eighth day of the disease. Each spot develops in a few hours, and lasts individually four or five days, fading gradually. They come out singly or in crops, varying in number from two or three to some hundreds. They chiefly appear on the back, or surface of chest or abdomen. Fading on pressure, they are not immediately visible on the back after the patient has been lying in the dorsal position, but become visible a few moments after he turns on his side. They are rarely seen on the limbs or face. In some cases the spots are deep purple in colour, though still disappear- ing on pressure. Sometimes they are actually hsemorrhagic; typhoid bacilli have been ob- tained from the spots. Very often before the true typhoid eruption or with it there come out numerous " typhoid blotches," carmine in colour, considerably raised above the surface, irregular in shape, and very much larger than true typhoid spots. Chills or actual rigors may occur at the onset, or during the course of the fever {see Complica- tions). Temperature in Typhoid Fever.—In most cases the temperature rises a couple of degrees on the first evening, and for the next three or four or five days there is a daily increase of temperature of 1° compared with the tempera- ture at the same time on the previous day. By this step-like ascent the temperatvu'e stands at about 102° in the morning and 104° in the evening of the fifth day, and the morning temperature continuing its increase a day later than the evening temperature, there results a temperature of 103° in the morning and 104' in the evening. Then ensues a period which has been called the fastigium, lasting till the commencement of the decline of the disease, in which the temperature continues at this level (sometimes rather less, sometimes more). The duration of this period is about twelve days, and the morning temperature then remits a degree or so, and falls back 2° below the tem- perature on the same evening ; both morning and evening temperatures thus fall day by day each about 1°, till by the twenty-first day the normal is reached in the morning, and in a day or so later also in the evening. Then ensues a period of convalescence in which the tempera- ture should be 1° or 2° below the normal for a few days, till with returning strength it again rises to normal. The commoner variations in the course of the pyrexia are as follows :— 1. The temperature may rise abruptly with the invasion, reaching 104° or higher in the first twenty-four hours, and the fastigial stage begins at once. 2. The pyrexia may gain a degree daily, but may fall to normal at some time on each (or some) of these days. 3. The fastigium may continue much longer than the average of fourteen days, very fre-