153 TUMOURS voluntary (skeletal) muscles are rarely attacked by tumours of any kind, and they never arise from the true contractile tissue. Classification. — Tumours form three groups:— 1. Connective-tissue tumours. 2. Epithelial tumours which comprise adeno- mata and cancers. 3. Dermoids. Each group contains a certain number of genera, and each genus has one or more species ; in describing the various genera care will be taken to define their structure, distribution, and clinical peculiarities, as w"ell as the modes by which they may imperil life, because it must be borne in mind that a so-called innocent tumour may be as rapidly fatal as the most malignant tumour should it arise in, or involve, a vital organ. This is a matter depending on environment, and will receive careful considera- tion with each genera. Group I.—Connective-Tissue Tumours Oenera,—1. Lipomata (fatty tumours). 2. Chondromata (cartilage tumours). 3. Osteo- mata (bony tumours). 4. Odontomes (tooth tumours). 5. Myelomata (marrow tumours). 6. Sarcomata. 7. Angeiomata (blood-vessel tumours). 8. Lymphangeiomata (tumours from lymphatics). 9. Myomata (muscle-tumours). 10. Neuromata (tumours connected with nerves and brain). Lipomata.—These are tumours composed of fat. The genus contains a single species with a distribution as wide as the fatty or adipose tissue. The common situation in which to find lipo- mata is the subcutaneous fat of the trunk and trunk-end of the limbs; they occur as en- capsuled irregularly lobulated lumps of fat, more or less adherent to the skin. In the majority of instances one tumour is present, but as many as twenty or more may grow con- currently. A lipoma weighing sixteen ounces is a tumour of fair size, but it may attain twenty times this dimension. In many instances the very large tumours which have been reported as fatty were examples of molluscum fibrosum, and some examples in which they were particu- larly numerous, the disease was an example of general neuro-fibromatosis. Subcutaneous lipo- mata sometimes grow on the fingers, the palms, soles, and occasionally on the scalp. They have been known to exist on one indi- vidual for more than thirty years, and in a few exceptional instances the fibrous septa among the fatty lobules have calcified ; in a few big tumours the fat has undergone saponification. The subcutaneous fat sometimes undergoes an irregular overgrowth, and forms what is known as diffuse lipomata. Precisely similar changes arise in the fatty stratum which undei'lies serous membranes such as the peritoneum and pleura. The fat beneath the serous covering of the intestines is occasionally the source of lipomata, which sometimes invade the muscular coat of the bowel and project into its lumen as a poly- pus. Such lipomata have, in a few instances, led to fatal intestinal obstruction. The synovial membranes of joints possess a fatty layer, and lipomata occasionally arise therein and project as stalked bodies into the cavity of the joint. Submucous tissue contains fat which serves as a source of lipomata. They have been found beneath the gastric mucous membrane, as well as in the lips, beneath the conjunctiva, and in the glosso-epiglottic folds. Lipomata also arise in the adipose tissue between muscles, as well as in the belly of a muscle such as the biceps or the deltoid. Occasionally they spring from the sheath of nerves and the periosteum of bone. The con- nective tissue between the dura mater and the bony wall of the spinal canal contains fat, which has, in a few carefully recorded instances, fur- nished a lipoma ; but probably one of the rarest situations in which a fatty tumour has been found, was between the layers of the dura mater lining the sella turcica. The patient, a woman forty-four years of age, suiTered from periodi- cal pain in the head and ptosis; the tumour was as big as a hen's egg. Relation to Age.—Lipomata may arise at any age,—infancy, adolescence, and extreme old age. Occasionally they are congenital. Clinical Characters. — The subcutaneous variety of fatty tumour rarely gives rise to diffi- culty in diagnosis, its intimate relation to the skin, doughy consistence, and the indefiniteness of its boundaries are very characteristic features. Lipomata in unusual situations often constitute clinical puzzles, especially when seated in or between muscles, or in the tongue; whilst those connected with periosteum often simulate sarcomata. Lipomata never recur if completely removed. They are only dangerous to life when they arise in the cranium or spinal canal; or when they grow in the walls of the small intestine and pro- trude into its lumen and cause intussusception. Chondromata.—This genus consists of tum- ours composed of hyaline cartilage. The most typical examples occur in long bones, and especially in relation with the epiphysial carti- lages, hence the chondromata are more frequent in children and adolescents. They occur as distinctly encapsuled tumours, and often form deep cup-shaped hollows in the bone from which they grow. They are particularly liable to arise in the metacarpal, metatarsal, and phalangeal bones, and the frequency with which chondro- mata occur in the bones of those who were rickety in early life, had led to the suggestion that they probably arise in the untransformed islets of cartilage found in the immediate neigh-