UTERUS, DISPLACEMENTS OF THE 337 Retroposition of the uterus frequently gives rise to troublesome rectal symptoms from stenosis, owing to the narrowing of the rectum, which is inevitable at the site of the peritonitic bands and consequent interference of its function. The diagnosis of all these positions is very im- portant, more especially in ante- and retro-posi- tion. It may be difficult to differentiate the uterine body from the swelling which produces the displacement. The careful use of the sound and bimanual examination under an ansesthetic should clear up the matter in case of doubt. The practitioner cannot exercise too much care in recognising the presence of retro-peritoneal hsematocele. This condition has frequently been mistaken for an enlarged retroverted uterus, and attempts at replacing such have been followed by most disastrous results. All the above displacements do not call for treat- ment, but the condition causing them does so. 7. Pathological Anteversion and Ante- flexion.—The uterus normally is anteverted and anteflexed, but the degree of version and flexion which may be considered physiological cannot be defined, and what one examiner may consider pathological another would consider normal. Symptoms do not help us much in making the definition, because one patient may have an exaggerated anteversion, without symp- toms, or the change in the inclination and the bend of the uterus may be very slight, yet the symptoms may be well marked. And again, the symptoms may be due, not to the displace- ment, but to the causes which produce it. There are, however, two well-defined anomalies of the normal condition which can be without doubt pronounced pathological. These are known as pathological anteflexion and patho- logical anteversion, both of which occur as the result of inflammation posterior to the uterus, and the chief characteristic of these forward displacements is that the uterus has lost its normal mobility. Schultze defines pathological anteversion as "that position of the uterus in which, extended in shape, it lies with the fundus forwards, and is more than normally stabile," and pathological anteflexion as "that position of the uterus in which, permanently flexed over its anterior surface, it lies with the fundus for- wards, and is more than normally stabile." Pathological Anteversion.—Physical Signs. —The uterus is straightened out, the relation between the body and cervix is altered, that is, the normal anteflexion is abolished. The body is enlarged, is stiff and rigid, and has lost its flexibility and much of its mobility. On making a bimanual examination, the vaginal portion of the cervix will be felt high placed and altered in direction from downwards and backwards to backwards and upwards. Through the anterior fornix the enlarged body of the uterus will be made out, hard in consist- ence, with its mobility impaired, while the body vol. X and cervix will be felt to be in the same straight line. If a thorough examination be made under anaesthesia inflammatory thickening may be re- cognised in the region of the utero-sacral liga- ments. This thickening can be best felt per rectum. Etiology.—Anteversion is generally a result of puerperal inflammation. The extended shape of the uterus is due to metritis, which is usually brought about by interference with the involu- tion of the uterus. The metritis makes the uterus rigid, and increases its bulk. Posterior cellulitis accompanies the metritis, and leads to rigidity and contraction of the utero-sacral liga- ments, which pull up and fix the cervix to the sacrum at a high level. Intra-abdominal pres- sure pushes down the rigid, straightened-out body, while the cervix is moved in an elevated position posteriorly. Symptoms. — The symptoms are those of metritis and posterior cellulitis. In addition there may be added vesical troubles, pain when- ever the bladder becomes moderately distended, and frequent desire to micturate. Pathological Anteflexion.—Physical Signs. —On bimanual examination the vaginal portion of the cervix will be found high placed and nearer the sacrum than normal. Through the anterior fornix the body of the uterus is felt acutely flexed on the cervix. The uterus may be flexible, or it may have lost its flexibility. The thickened utero-sacral ligaments may be palpated through the posterior fornix, and the examiner will feel that they prevent him from drawing the uterus forward to the front. Etiology.—The commonest cause of patho- logical anteflexion is shortening of the utero- sacral ligaments, the result of cellulitis. The contracted folds of Douglas pull the cervix back towards the sacrum, and fix it there. Intra- abdominal pressure acting on the posterior sur- face of the uterus, which is still flexible, pushes it downwards towai'ds the anterior aspect of the cervix, thus producing an exaggerated ante- flexion. The subsequent metritis destroys its flexibility. The posterior cellulitis is not always puerperal, as it is frequently met with in the unmarried and in those who have had no children. Symp)toms.—The symptoms are those of utero- sacral cellulitis, metritis, and endometritis. Pain in the back, and pain and difficulty in de- feecation, are the leading symptoms which can be attributed to the posterior inflammation. The uterine conditions give rise to leucorrhoea, perhaps menorrhagia, dysmenorrhcea, and sterility. Treatment.—Treatment is directed to the abnormal condition of the utero-sacral ligaments and of the uterus. Pain in the back, which is due to dragging of the uterus on the shortened and inflamed ligaments, should be treated in such a way as to procure rest to these struc- 22