TROPICS, THE UNCLASSED FEVERS OF THE 112 the burst of the monsoon rains in July, the admissions are fewer than in May, when there is nothing to veil the fierce heat of the sun. AVith the arrival of the rains there is a drop both in the admissions and in the atmospheric temperature, which never again rises above that of the body. In Rangoon, on the other hand, the hottest months are February, March, and April; and January, February, and March give the greatest number of admissions. In that part of Burma the monsoon breaks in May, and the rains are preceded and accompanied by cloud-laden skies, and during their continuance admissions for " simple continued fever" dis- appear from the returns. With the cessation of the rains in September admissions again take place in October. An atmospheric maximum in the shade of 100° F. or more seems to be most conducive to the prevalence of this type of fever, and I have elsewhere pointed out {Transactions of the Medical Society of London^ 1902) the difficulties which present themselves to the maintenance of normal temperature under conditions of high atmospheric temperature and humidity. This has also been shown experimentally in artifici- ally heated chambers, the introduction of mois- ture immediately causing a rise of body tem- perature, which may then exceed physiological limits by many degrees; and I have also shown {Indian Annals of Medical Science, vol. xxxii. of 1874) that slight exertion in the conditions which prevail in India during the hot, moist months is capable of raising the body tempera- ture to 99-9° F. The experience of troops on the march, unsuitably clothed and carrying weights, is to the same effect, and many men fall out under such circumstances with short febrile attacks. These phenomena show that the immediate cause of these fevers is probably failure of the control which is normally exerted by the nervous system in maintaining normal temperature when thermolysis is next to impos- sible, the atmospheric temperature being higher than that of the body, and evaporation from the surface hindered by great atmospheric humidity and heavy clothing. It is under such conditions that " heat-apoplexy," as distinguished from " sunstroke," so constantly occurs, the attack frequently occurring in the evening after sundown. Chills are also often noticed as the immediate cause of the symptoms, especially in individuals whose nervous system has been ex- hausted by long exposure to heat or impaired by the free use of alcohol. Alcoholics are indeed the most frequent subjects of these climatic fevers, especially heat-apoplexy. Europeans are much more liable to them than natives, and I do not think that long residence gives any immunity except such as may come from greater caution, the result of the teaching of experience. Such are the conditions under which these fevers are most frequently seen, but it by no means follows that they constitute the whole case. With regard to the fourth member of the group, which Sambon prefers to call " siri- asis," notwithstanding the etymological incon- gruity of the name, the capricious distribution of the disease, its varying prevalence in the same place from year to year, its apparent epidemicity at times, and its more or less de- finite course, have led him to argue that it is probably a specific fever due to some infecting germ, and similar arguments might be used with equal force to the other members of the group. The strongest evidence in this direction is, however, the fact that individuals, and especially children, who have come to reside in a temperate climate after a long residence in the tropics, where they may not have had any obvious fever, often exhibit a strong tendency to the occurrence of fever of this type for some years. Even those who are the subjects of the malarial cachexia contracted in the tropics, in whom the spleen often remains enlarged for many months after their return to Europe, suffer more often from a " febricula," an eleva- tion of temperature for a few hours, on the smallest provocation, than from fever of an intermittent character. Each of these attacks is accompanied by a fresh enlargement of the spleen, and their liability to them continues imtil the spleen, from the effects of treatment, notably with arsenic, has assumed its natural size. I know of no observations on the blood in these cases except those of Maynard and my- self. In February and March 1895, the least malarious season in Calcutta, I found the ma- larial parasite present in less than 10 per cent of the cases of fever admitted to the European General Hospital. Maynard, working a few months later, found it in 28 per cent of admis- sions. From September to November, the most malarious season, they were detected in 75 per cent of all cases admitted to hospital. The rapid recovery of typical cases of this kind without quinine, the refusal of the more per- sistent cases to yield to that drug, and the absence of symptoms referable to the life-cycle of the parasite, lead to the opinion that its presence is accidental, and that it plays only a secondary part in the causation of fevers of this kind; and until extended and exhaustive bacterial research has been brought to bear on this group of fevers, the propriety of admitting them to the class of specific fevers must remain doubtful. JVasha or Nakra.—Nasha or nakra (wa^ = the nose) is a continued fever of from three to five days' duration, accompanied by tumefaction of the nasal mucous membrane. It is also a fever of the hot months, being rarely seen except between April and August. It is especi- ally prevalent in Lower Bengal, and appears to