ULCERS AND ULCERATION 211 B. Arrangement of Ulcers according to Condition . . .214 1. Healing .... 214 2. Stationary . . . .214 3. Spreading . . . .215 Treatment of Ulcers . . . .215 Principles applicable to all Ulcers .... 215 Management of Healing Sore . 216 Treatment of Special Varieties . 216 See also BuENS and Scalds {Treatment of Results); Diabetes Mellitus {Symptoms and Complications, The Skin); Dysentery {Patho- logical Anatomy); Intestines, Diseases of (Ulcers); Malingering {Ulcers); Mammary, Gland, Diseases of {Nipple and Areola, Ulcers of); Menstruation and its Disorders (Vicari- ous Menstruation, from Ulcers); Oxygen (Ex- ternal Uses); Palate {Diseases, Syphilis, Secondary Lesions); Peritoneum, Acute Peri- tonitis, General {Etiology); Puerperium, Pathology {Affections of Nipples); Skin, Diseases of the Tropics {Tropical Phagedoina); Skin Grafting and Allied Procedures {Cases Suitable); Sprue {Pathological Anatomy); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Ulcer- ation); Stomach, Surgical {Gastric Ulcer); Stomatitis {Aphthous); Suppuration {Ulcers); Syphilis ; Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology, Perforating Ulcer of the Foot); Tongue, Dis- eases OF; etc. Definitions.—An ulcer may be defined as an open sore or wound in which there are present certain conditions tending to prevent it under- going the natural process of repair. The process by which an ulcer is formed, and by which it increases in size—ulceration—may be defined as the molecular or cellular death of tissue taking place on a free surface. It is, to all intents and purposes, of the same nature as the process of suppuration {q.v.), the only important diiTerence being that while in sup- puration the purulent discharge resulting from the death of the tissue elements collects in a closed cavity and forms an abscess, in ulceration it escapes at once on the surface. Conditions which prevent Healing.—Of the conditions which tend to interfere with the spon- taneous healing of an ulcer the most potent is the presence oipathogenic bacteria. These organ- isms not only prevent healing, but by producing irritation and causing destruction of tissue they lead to an actual increase in the size of the sore. (Edema and venous congestion impede healing by interfering with the nutrition of the affected part, and induration of the area surrounding an ulcer also prevents healing, as the tissues are unable to contract. Interference with the nerve- supply of the tissues, such as occurs, for example, in spinal disease, infantile paralysis, and certain nervous diseases, may also play an important part in delaying repair. In Bright's disease, diabetes, syphilis, and certain other general constitutional conditions, the vitiated state of the tissues is an impediment to repair. It goes without saying that unsuitable dressings, ill- fitting appliances, and other mechanical causes, may also interfere with the healing of an ulcer. Clinical Examination of an Ulcer. — In ex- amining an ulcer clinically attention should be directed to the condition of — (1) Its base or floor, noting the presence or absence of granu- lations, and, if present, their disposition, size, colour and vascularity, and whether they are depressed or elevated in relation to the sur- rounding parts. (2) The discharge from the sore should be examined as to its quantity, con- sistence, colour, composition and odour. (3) The condition of the edges is of great importance, and it should be observed whether or not the marginal epithelium is attempting to grow in over the surface; the shape, regularity and thickness of the edges should also be noted, and whether they are undermined or overlapping, everted or depressed. (4) The surroundirigparts are examined as to whether they are congested, oederaatous, inflamed, indurated, or otherwise. (5) The question of pain and tenderness in the raw surface or its surroundings should be in- quired into. (6) Lastly, the situation of the ulcer should be noted, as certain varieties of ulcer tend to occur with greater frequency on some parts of the body than on others ; for example, the varicose ulcer on the front of the Teg and the perforating ulcer on the foot, and so on. The Healing Sore.—So many varieties of ulcer are met with clinically that it is necessary for purposes of comparison to recognise a type, and this is conveniently found in the healing sore, which forms after a portion of skin has been excised aseptically, for example, in the removal of a small cutaneous tumour, or in the operation of skin grafting. After the removal of such a portion of skin the raw surface soon becomes covered with a layer of coagulated blood, fibrin, and lymph, which in the course of a few days is replaced by the growth of granulations. These granulations are of uni- form size, pink in colour, and exude a small amount of serous fluid containing a few dead leucocytes. They grow until they reach the level of the surrounding skin, and so fill in the gap with a fine velvety mass of " granulation tissue." The marginal epithelium spreads in over this granulation tissue as a fine pellicle. Towards the inner edge the young epithelium is very thin, of a delicate bluish-white colour, and slightly striated ; further out it is thicker and paler. The surrounding parts are healthy or they may show a slight degi'ee of hyperfemia. There is no pain in the sore, and the patient is not feverish. Such a healing sore may be