343 UTERUS, INFLAMMATIONS OF THE and by causing a reflex contraction in the uterine blood-vessels. The glycerine plug acts by abstracting serum from the inflamed tissues, and its use is generally attended by a copious discharge which necessitates the patient wearing a diaper. In some cases a complete cure will result from such a course of treatment, especially if the disease is of recent origin. In almost all there will be a marked relief from the general pelvic pain and discomfort. Much of the non-success attending the use of the vaginal douche and the glycerine plug in chronic pelvic inflammatory lesions is due to the altogether imperfect and perfunctory way in which they are employed. A patient who has been treating herself at home with no benefit will often improve rapidly if she is put under the supervision of a nurse who carries out the treatment properly. Blisters over the hypogastrium and iodine applied to the roof of the vagina may be used in intractable cases, while hot fomentations and warm hip baths ai-e beneficial in acute exacer- bation of the inflammation which frequently occurs. Where the uterus is heavy and pro- lapsed, and bearing-down pain is a prominent symptom, a soft vaginal rubber pessary will often give great relief. Applications of caustics to the endometrium and curettage are contra- indicated so long as the uterus remains tender. At a later stage, when bi-manual examination causes no pain, if there are indications of endo- metritis, the uterus may be curetted with benefit. The best hope of a permanent cure lies in the patient becoming pregnant and going to full time ; the natural cure of chronic metritis which takes place in the puerperium being after all the only efficient one. General Treatment.—All very active exertion, such as cycling, long walks, dancing, etc., should be forbidden. A moderate amount of gentle exercise in the open air is, however, beneficial. The importance of physical rest for at least three hours each day in the recumbent posture has been already referi-ed to. Sexual rest is equally important. Intercourse should be entirely abstained from during a course of treatment. The value of the mineral waters of Kreuznach, Schwalbach, Wiesbaden, etc., on the Continent, and those of Woodhall Spa and Harrowgate at home, in the treatment of metritis, as well as other chronic inflammatory pelvic lesions, is beyond doubt. It is, however, pretty generally admitted that much of the benefit which so often follows a visit to one or other of these places is a result more often due to the rest—physical, mental, and sexual— obtained there than to the specific qualities of the waters themselves. Constipation is a common cause of pelvic congestion in the female, and should be care- fully guarded against. In correcting it, salines are specially useful in the disease under notice. Epsom salts and Carlsbad salts, or such mineral waters as Hunyadi Janos and Apenta, are well adapted to the majority of cases. They should be given well diluted in the morning half an hour before any food is taken. Ergot, potassium iodide, mercury, and arsenic are drugs which have all been vaunted as remedies from time to time in the treatment of chronic metritis. With the exception of ergot, their effects in improving the condition are very doubtful. Ergot in many cases does do good. In others, by increasing the normal contraction of the uterus, its use may be attended with an increase of the pain. To get results from the use of ergot it is important to use only freshly made preparations. Much of the ergot which is dispensed is quite inert owing to decom2:)osition. Careful dieting and tonics are, of course, of great value when the general health is im- paired. Alcohol is generally harmful, and should be used sparingly where, owing to extreme debility, it seems necessary. The Weir-Mitchell treatment of enforced rest in bed, isolation from friends, full diet, massage and electricity, is specially adapted to those cases of neurasthenia and hysteria dependent on chronic metritis. In long-standing cases, where all other measures fail, total extirpation of the uterus may be necessary to give relief. Chronic Endometritis.—Chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane of the body of the uterus is, like chronic metritis, rarely the con- sequence of an acute aff"ection, but results more frequently from prolonged hypersemia, and is subacute from its commencement. Several varieties have been described by pathologists which are difficult in most cases to differentiate clinically. The glandular, where the glands are much hypertrophied and pro- liferated ; the interstitial, where there is great hyperplasia of the connective tissue elements only of the mucous membrane; a mixed form, where both glands and connective tissue are involved. Endometritis fungosa is a rarer variety than these. Here the mucous mem- brane seems to consist largely of dilated blood- vessels. Endometritis exfoliativa is character- ised by a shedding of the endometrium, some- times in the form of shreds, sometimes of a complete cast of the uterus. It is the same as membranous dysmenorrhoea. Finally, there is an atrophic form of endometritis met with after the menopause in old women, and which is of great importance clinically, from the fact that the foul-smelling discharge which characterises it may often lead to the suspicion of intra- uterine malignant disease. Etiology.—The causes of chronic endometritis are the same as those mentioned as operating in producing chronic metritis, with which it is very often associated, though in the majority of cases it occurs as a separate affection. It is