URINATION, DISORDERS OF 267 of micturition. In intractable cases a careful visual examination of the urinary apparatus, vulva, etc., should be made. Enuresis due to Alterations in the Character of the Urine.—In every case of incontinence of urine in children the urine should be carefully examined, special attention being paid to the degree of acidity, and the presence of any abnormal constituents. Oxaluria, phosphaturia, or uric acid in excess may be the determining cause. If the presence of one or other of these is determined, attention must, of course, be directed to the diet and the state of the gastro- intestinal tract. A Change in the JVervous Mechanism ivhich governs Micturition.—^As the controlling nervous mechanism of micturition is a complex one, we find that there are many factors which may effect a disturbance of the act. These may be roughly grouped as follows :— 1. Defects in the higher controlling centres in the brain. 2. Disease in the spinal cord (lumbar region) which involves the reflex centres for micturition. 3. Derangement of the peripheral nervous mechanism in the wall of the bladder. Epileptics, imbecile and mentally deficient children, are on this account prone to suff"er from incontinence. Fright is another factor which occasionally induces an inability to retain urine for the normal time. Any disease of the spinal cord may give rise to want of control over the bladder. This disease may primarily involve the lumbar centres, or secondarily from interference with the conducting paths in the cord. We must admit, however, that in many cases of incontinence in children no lesion can be discovered to account for the symptoms, and in such cases we are forced to take refuge in the theory of disturbed nerve action from unascertained causes. This disturbance may manifest itself either in delicate children or in those in apparently robust health. In some cases there is some inability to retain the urine during the day as well as at night. In most cases, however, the incontinence is nocturnal only. In some cases there is a history of bed- wetting from early infancy; more fi-equently the disease has developed after the first few years of life. Treatment.—It will be obvious from what has gone before that the treatment must be etiological. Every attention should be paid to ascertain what part of the mechanism of mic- turition is at fault in any case. If the urine is obviously faulty diluents and alkalies with a change of diet may be all that is necessary. Any source of local irritation in or about the bladder, or peripheral source of irritation, e.g. in the intestines, should be removed. The ordinary cases, due to unascertained causes, are the most intractable. Careful attention to regular habits of micturition are essential. The medicinal remedies of most value are belladonna, ergot, and cantharidis. Belladonna is best ad- ministered in the form of the tincture, 20 to 60 minims at bedtime, according to the age of child. If this fail, ergot, in 20-minim doses twice or thrice daily, may succeed, or a cantharidis blister over the sacrum may be tried. The diet should in all cases be investigated. A purely milk diet may give a very good result in cases which resist all medicinal remedies. The application of the cold douche to the spine is a means of treatment that is much advocated by some authorities. The child before being put to bed should sit in a bath or tub, and from one to two gallons of cold water poured down the spine from the nape of the neck. It is then rubbed dry and put to bed (Carmichael). Dysuria in Children.—Pain in micturition in children is usually dependent on one of the following causes :— (a) Phimosis or preputial adhesions. {h) Vulvitis. (c) Uric acid or phosphates in excess in the urine. The child has a constant desire to pass water, and screams with pain when she tries to do so. Treatment must be directed to the cause. When due to the presence of uric acid in excess the con- dition may be accompanied by a true renal colic. Increased Frequency of Micturition in Adults.—This may be dependent on a defect in the bladder, a condition spoken of as irrita- bility of the bladder. It may be due to various forms of inflammation of the bladder wall, calculi, foreign bodies, or tumour growths. Again, it may be due to a stricture of the urethra. A very frequent cause in old age is enlargement of the prostate gland, more especially in cases attended with enlargement of the middle lobe. Renal disease is also a cause, more especially chronic nephritis and pyelitis. In addition to these various diseased states involving the urinary apparatus, increased frequency, often attended by some incontinence, may arise from various constitutional derangements which are attended by the passage of an abnormal urine. The most striking illustrations in this group are diabetes mellitus and insipidus, and hysteria. It is prob- able that some cases are to be explained by the existence of early vascular disease throughout all the organs and tissues of the body. In such cases the vaso-motor control of the circulation is defective, and variations in the calibre of the renal vessels occur with more frequency than in perfectly normal conditions, with the result that a large amount of limpid urine of low specific gravity is passed. Increased frequency of mic- turition varies in degrees ; it may exist as a single symptom, but more usually it is accompanied by other symptoms which aid the diagnosis. The diagnosis of the cause is made from the following:— 1. From a careful examination of the history.