VISCERAL PAIN 478 made to do so by gently irritating with the point of the finger. This hardness of the muscle is often mistaken for a thickened peritoneum, and its presence on the other hand is often assumed to be evidence of peritonitis. It is necessary to insist on the fact that hardness and tenderness of the abdominal muscles may exist entirely independently of any sign of peritonitis, but may be due to affection of other tissues, as in simple gastric ulcer, renal and hepatic colic. Pleurisy.—The pain in pleurisy may be felt immediately over the inflamed pleura, or it may be referred to a portion of skin some dis- tance off. When its situation is immediately over the area of friction it is difficult to prove whether after all it may not be situated in the pleura. Frequently, however, it is accompanied Fig. 9.—The shaded areas A and B show the situation of pain and hypersesthesia in diaphragmatic pleurisy. by a hyperaesthesia of the external body wall, either of the skin or muscles, and the fact that the pain and hypereesthesia correspond in situa- tion leads one naturally to the conclusion that the pain is in the tissues that are hyper- sesthetic. This conclusion is all the more feasible when the pain and the tenderness are remote from the inflamed area. When the pleurisy affects the diaphragmatic pleura the pain is usually situated in the abdomen, some- times as low down as the umbilicus, as in the shaded area in Fig. 9. The pain in this site is not infrequently associated with hypersesthesia of an irregular patch of skin and a certain amount of muscle tenderness and contraction. This would suggest that the stimulus has passed by the sympathetic nerves to the spinal cord and irritated the roots of the spinal nerves supplied to the abdomen. In rare cases this diaphragmatic pleurisy is associated with great pain on the top of the shoulder, and I have on rare occasions found an area of hyperaesthesia here (B in Fig. 9). Ross drew attention to this shoulder pain and explained it by reference to the fact that this area is supplied by the fourth cervical nerve, and the phrenic nerve also comes from the fourth cervical. It may be that as the phrenic contains afferent fibres these convey the stimulation to the root of the sen- sory nerve, or it may be that the stimulus proceeds by way of the vagus. But there is no doubt as to the close association of this area of skin with the diaphragmatic pleura. The most severe pain in pleurisy is that due to the spasmodic contraction of the intercostal muscles. Just as the abdominal muscles contract on the slightest stimulation in peritonitis, so these hypersesthetic intercostal muscles are stimulated to violent contraction by the movements of respiration in pleurisy. Meniiigitis.—I have not sufficient data to establish satisfactorily all the sensory symptoms in this disease, but there is no reason to suppose that it differs from the general characteristics of disease of the other serous membranes. That it is, like the pleura and peritoneum, insensitive to stimulation I have been able to demonstrate in wounds of the skull. That it is characterised by the same tendency to muscular contraction is evidenced by the rigid way in which the contracted muscles of the neck hold the head. The Pericardium.—In the great majority of cases pericarditis is not associated with any sensory symptoms. In the rare cases that I have found them, they seem to resemble the symptoms present in heart affections generally, due probably to an extension of the inflamma- tion to the muscle wall. Thus in one well- marked case there was great pain in the left chest, extending down the inside of the arm. (c) Affections of the Parenchyma of Organs.— I am extremely doubtful how far disease of organs, apart from their serous coverings, can exhibit sensory symptoms. It is well under- stood, for instance, that the lungs may be deeply excavated with phthisical cavities and pain may never be felt. It might seem that even in inflammation of the lungs there is no pain unless there be an accompanying pleurisy. At all events the pain and other sensory symptoms that we associate with pneumonia are identical with those observed in attacks of pleurisy, and one occasionally meets with cases of pneumonia with absolutely no pain, probably due to the fact that the pleura is not invaded. The pain and hypersesthesia in the areas in Fig. 9 are sometimes associated with pneumonia of the base of the left lung. It is also a matter of common experience that affections of other organs are usually painless. Thus the bowels may be largely ulcerated, the kidneys acutely inflamed, and the patient never complain of pain. I have observed pain, muscle contraction,