URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 287 from its deposition, or that of its salts, in solid form, there are some who maintain that this substance exerts a toxic action even when in solution in the body fluids, and that to its pre- sence there a large number of morbid symptoms are due. Haig lays great stress upon the re- lative variations in the output of uric acid and urea, as affording evidence of the retention of uric acid in the tissues, or the expulsion there- from of quantities previously retained. The excretion of uric acid is increased in febrile diseases, and a marked increase has been sometimes observed in cases of pernicious anaemia. The most conspicuous increase is met with in leukaemia, but even in this disease quantities as large as 4 or 5 grammes in the twenty-four hours, although occasionally met with, must be regarded as exceptional. More usually the out- put is about twice the maximum normal amount. In leukaemia there is a relative as well as an absolute increase, and the proportion of urea to uric acid may be as low as 9 :1 instead of 50 : 1, which is about the average normal ratio. Owing to the part which uric acid undoubtedly plays in the pathology of gout, a peculiar in- terest attaches to its excretion in that disease, but the results of investigations directed to this point are far from being as conclusive as could be wished, or as was foreshadowed by some of the earlier investigations in which the unsatis- factory method of Heintz was employed. The variations observed are by no means extreme, and the results are by no means uniform in different cases. Moreover, the wide individual differences in the uric acid excretion of normal subjects render it peculiarly difficvdt to estimate the importance of any but very marked varia- tions. Indeed von Noorden, writing in 1893, expressed the opinion that the figures obtained in gouty cases show no important differences from those obtained with healthy persons and sufferers from various diseases other than gout. A study of the results obtained by trustworthy methods of estimation, and especially those of Fawcett, point to a low average excretion of uric acid by gouty patients in the intervals between attacks, and an increased output during acute attacks. The results obtained in cases of chronic nephritis are not more conclusive as regarding the retention of uric acid by diseased kidneys. The deposition of amorphous urates and of crystalline uric acid from the urine has no necessary connection with excessive excretion, although this is doubtless one of the causes of such deposition. The other causes which con- tribute to the result will be spoken of in the sections which deal with urinary sediments and with calculi respectively. The estimation of uric acid has of recent years been deprived of much of its difficulty, and in Hopkins's method we have a means of making such estimations simply and with as much accuracy as is attained to with more complex methods. It is based upon the fact that the uric acid is completely precipitated in the form of ammonium urate when the urine is saturated with ammonium chloride. From the precipitate of ammonium urate, dissolved in a small quantity of hot water, the uric acid is set free by means of hydrochloric acid. The precipitated uric acid is collected upon a filter and washed, and afterwards dis- solved by means of sodium carbonate and titrated, in the presence of sulphuric acid, with a vigintinormal solution of patassium perman- ganate. The Xanthin Bases.—Several different bases allied to uric acid and often classed with it under the general name of alloxuric substances, constitute a very small fraction of the total nitrogenous constituents of urine. Of these xanthin is the most important, and has been met with as a crystalline sediment, and in a very rare variety of calculus. Much study has been devoted, of recent years, to the variations in the excretion of such bases, sometimes by methods which are not satisfactory. As yet the fluctuations in their amounts have hardly acquired any definite clinical importance, and the methods employed for their estimation are complicated and difficult. Like that of uric acid, the output of the xanthin bases is increased by a diet rich in nuclein, and in connection with leucocytosis. In leukaemia a marked increase has been fre- quently but not constantly observed, and it should be mentioned that Babinsky found their amounts excessive in cases of acute nephritis. The increase described by Kolisch as occurring in gout has not been met with by other observers. Kreatinine.—As compared with those of uric acid, the variations in the excretion of kreatinine in the urine have attracted but little attention from clinical workers. It is never thrown down as a sediment from the urine, and no untoward results can be ascribed to its presence in excess. Neubauer found that in health the kreatinine excreted by the kidneys in periods of twenty- four hours varied between 0'6 and 1"3 grammes, or was, roughly speaking, 1 gramme. Macleod has recently obtained higher figures, viz. an average of 2'098 on flesh diet, and 1'064 on a diet free from kreatine. The kreatinine of urine is partly exogenous and partly endogenous, the former portion being derived from the kreatine of food, the latter being a product of tissue metabolism. It is therefore important that in studying the varia- tions of the endogenous excretion the patient should be placed upon a kreatine-free diet. An increased output has been observed by Groeco and Moitessier after violent muscular exertion, and it may be stated generally that the amount is increased when metabolism is active, and diminished when it is sluggish, and