URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 278 and /3 oxybutyric acids, which are neutralised by ammonia, just as are mineral acids given by the mouth. Such greatly increased output of ammonia is apt to precede the onset of diabetic coma. The clinical significance of the increased output of ammonia is, therefore, very similar to that of the iron reaction in diabetic cases, and it has been urged that an estimation of its amount supplies a valuable guide as to the advisability of undertaking any operative procedure in such cases. Stadelmann recommends that when the excre- tion of ammonia is in excess alkalies should be administered in sufficient quantities to neutralise the abnormal acids formed. The estimation of ammonia in urine is affected by the simple method of Schlosing. To a known quantity of the urine lime is added, and the containing vessel is allowed to stand in a closed chamber, such as an exsiccator, over a measured quantity of a decinormal solution of sulphuric acid, which absorbs, and is partly neutralised by, the ammonia given off. The amount so neutralised is estimated by titration with a standard alkaline solution. IV. OXALURIA Calcium oxalate is a constant constituent of human urine, and it seems clearly established that part of the amount present is a product of tissue metabolism, whereas a larger part is directly derived from the food introduced into the alimentary canal. Of recent years many observers have occupied themselves with the study of this subject, and the researches of Salkowski and his pupils call for special mention, and in this country the work of Dunlop. Such investigations have been greatly impeded by the tedious and unsatis- factory methods formerly in use for the estima- tion of oxalic acid in urine, and the most recent researches gain in importance from the employ- ment in them of a new and improved method of estimation devised by Salkowski. The evidence for the endogenous origin of part of the oxalic acid in urine is in part derived from observations upon fasting dogs, and in part from the investigations of Liitje and Lommel upon the urine of human beings taking an oxalate-free diet, such as milk, for consider- able periods. It has been shown that carbo- hydrates and proteids are not the sources of the endogenous oxalic acid, but, on the other hand, that in all probability gelatin is its chief parent substance, whilst kreatin and glycocol are also entitled to be included among the materials from which it is formed. That the excretion of oxalic acid is influenced by the oxalates contained in the food, i.e. the existence of an alimentary oxaluria, has been questioned by some, but it has been estab- lished beyond any doubt that the vegetable con- stituents of the diet are its chief source. Some vegetables, such as rhubarb, spinach, and tea, are specially rich in oxalic acid, and therefore have a conspicuous influence upon the excretion. The term oxaluria is, somewhat incorrectly, applied to the deposition of calcium oxalate from the urine in crystalline form, whereas it should, strictly speaking, be limited to the excretion of oxalic acid in undue quantities. However, of the conditions which tend to produce excessive excretion, apart from dietary causes, we kiiow little as yet, and the careful observations of Lommel and others have failed to confirm the pre- valent belief that such increase is apt to occur in diabetes, and in association with jaundice. It is, therefore, with the tendency to the deposi- tion of calcium oxalate that we are here con- cerned, a tendency which acquires great clinical importance from the liability which it entails to the formation of calculi in the urinary passages. The oxalic acid of urine is in the form of the insoluble calcium salt, and among the causes which favour its deposition therefrom its excessive excretion is certainly one, seeing that the power of the urine to hold it in solution is easily overtaxed. That the urine is able to hold it in solution at all is in part due to the presence of the acid phosphates. Klemperer and Tritschler have shown that the acid phos- phates of sodium, calcium, and magnesium all exert a solvent action, the sodium salt being the least, and the magnesium salt the most potent in this respect. Other magnesium salts, such as the chloride and sulphate, also favour the solution of calcium oxalate, and it would appear that a high degree of acidity of the urine and a relatively large proportion of magnesium com- pounds in it, are among the causes which specially tend to keep the oxalate in solution. Dunlop found that urine which deposited crystals was usually rich in calcium oxalate, but the observations of Klemperer and Tritschler show that a continuous deposition of crystals may also occur even from urine which is poor in this substance. The microscopical characters of deposits of calcium oxalate will be described in the section dealing with urinary sediments. Leucocytes are often present in considerable numbers in association with them, and the urine may con- tain albumin or even blood, as in the not very uncommon cases in which hfematuria follows the eating of rhubarb in considerable quantities. Dull aching pain in the loins, culminating in the intense pain of renal colic, is another symptom which calls for mention. Begbie described a group of symptoms which he regarded as characteristic of a so-called " oxalic acid diathesis," among which he included dyspepsia, hypochondriasis, neurasthenia, and neuralgic pains in various situations. That such symptoms are not uncommon in association