570 X-RAYS resistance boards for this purpose (Fig. 11). Though this is the simplest and least trouble- some method, it is not so advantageous as the use of accumulators : a larger current strength can be obtained from the latter and a higher voltage from the former, and the large current strength is to be preferred ; further, the Neef's hammer is available with accumulators. Rontgen ray tubes have been recently im- FiG. 9.—Dawson Turner interrupter. Turner's Med. Electricity. proved in strength and durability, and in means of keeping the degree of vacuum constant. In its simplest form the tube consists of a cylinder or bulb of glass through the ends of which platinum wires pass; the latter are continued as aluminium rods. One of these, the kathode, terminates in a small concave mirror ; the other, the anode, is a thick disc of platinum inclined at an angle of 45° to the axis of the kath- ode, and at a distance a little beyond the principal focus of the concave mirror. The tube is exhausted to a very high vacuum. The glass of which the tube is made must be quite free from lead. When the discharge from an indiiction coil is passed in the right direction through such a tube, that part of the wall of the tube which is opposite to the anode will shine with a greenish yellow phosphorescence of hemispherical form; if the tube be wrongly connected the green light will be patchy and irregular. Modern tubes have three electrodes and sometimes arrangements for varying the vacuum. The Chabaud-Villard tube for GaifFe's influence machine is provided with such a means. A good maker of tubes is Hirschmann of Berlin (Fig. 13). At one end of the tube is an arrangement for admitting air; and at I'IG. 10.—Bichromate battery witli lifting arrangement. Scliall. the other end one for withdrawing air; either can be used by causing the electricity to pass solely through the particular arrangement. Such a tube is a great advantage, for most tubes unless punctured become gradually useless through their electri- cal resistance rising- owing to a too high vacuum. Another good maker of tubes is Mueller of Ham- burg ; his tubes are sold by Cox of Cursitor Street, London, and by Leslie Miller, Hat- ton Garden, London. To Mueller's tube was awarded the gold medal of the Rontgen Society in 1901. The conditions of this competition serve to bring out what are ^P- n.-Switciiboard for suppiy- 9, 1,1 ,1 iDg coil from the mam. Schall. considered to be the important points in a Rontgen ray tube. These are:— (1) Definition. (2) Penetration. (3) Photographic effect. (4) Price. The predominant requirement was that the tube selected as the best should be practical. About 75 per cent of the tubes failed to satisfy the required tests for definition, and in the opinion of the jury the attention of makers of * i> A..' ^ '% yHMIIW(nilllil.«llil> ■ 4 9 9 .-V ' -.i; e FiO. 12.—Kontgen ray tube. L. Miller. tubes should be drawn to this defect, because unless a tube defines well, all other advantages it may possess are to a great extent valueless for most of the purposes to which X-rays are put. The tubes which stood the test for definition were subjected to a very severe trial for pene- tration and photographic effect, and the jury were glad to be able to report that a much higher standard of excellence was attained in this respect than in that of definition. The element of price did not require very serious consideration. The prices of the tubes sent in varied from £4, 5s. to 16s. Many of the high- priced tubes were eliminated by the first test, and the tube which best satisfied all the tests