6 THYROID GLAND, MEDICAL SECTION lumen of which it is stored till required. As the gland has no duct the seci-etion is conveyed from the gland by the lymphatics, and possibly also by the veins. It was shown by King and by Horsley that the colloid substance could be squeezed from the centre of the acinus into the lymphatic spaces which lie outside and between the alveoli. Thence it passes directly into the lymphatic vessels which drain the gland. Hurthle has shown that the colloid substance escapes from the alveolus, either by rupture of the alveolar wall, or by passing through minute channels between the epithelial cells into the interacinous lymphatic spaces. The secretion of the gland is thus mixed with the lymph, with which it passes into the general blood-stream, and is distributed all over the body. Physiology.—The thyroid gland is thus a ductless gland, the function of which is to supply an internal secretion which is poured into the blood. The important part played by this secretion in the general metabolism of the tissues is shown by the results of removal of the thyroid gland in man and lower animals. Thus in rabbits removal of the thyroid gland is followed by the gradual development of hebe- tude, swelling of the subcutaneous tissues, dry- ness of the skin, loss of hair, and subnormal temperature, all of which are symptoms of myxoedema in man. It was shown by Horsley that in the monkey especially thyroidectomy was followed by symptoms closely resembling those of myxoedema in man. In my own ex- perience similar symptoms have also developed. Some five days after the operation a fine tremor of the limbs appears, and the animal loses all its natural liveliness, and becomes inactive and apathetic. There is progressive loss of muscular power, and the animal sits huddled up in a corner of its cage. Tonic and clonic contrac- tions of the flexor muscles are often seen, and true epileptic fits occur in some cases. The temperature at first is irregular, but later becomes subnormal. From two to three weeks after the operation myxoedematous swelling appears in the face, the skin becomes dry, and the hair may be lost in places. It is thus evident that the symptoms closely resemble those of myxoedema in man. They develop more acutely, of course, because the gland is removed all at once instead of undergoing a progressive fibrosis as in primary myxoedema in man. In secondary myxoedema in man, how- ever, the symptoms may develop almost as rapidly as in a case transferred to my care at the Newcastle Royal Infirmary, by my colleague Mr. A. Martin, who had removed the whole of the gland for disease. Within ten days of the operation there was swelling of the face and tongue, dryness of the skin, slow speech, with attacks of tetany, just like those which occur in the monkey. In young animals removal of the thyroid gland is followed by arrest of development in addition to the other symptoms, so that a condition of cretinism is the ultimate result. In man, as we shall see in considering secondary myxoedema, removal of the thyroid gland in the adult is followed by typical myxoe- dema. When the gland has been removed during childhood there has been an arrest of development as well, and the child has become a complete cretin. When the importance of the thyroid gland was first demonstrated, it was thought that the results of thyroidectomy in an animal might be averted by grafting a piece of another gland into the animal. Schiff and von Eiselsbei-g showed by their experiments that in the cat and in the dog a piece of thyroid gland successfully transplanted was able to supply sufficient secre- tion to ward off the symptoms which usually follow thyroidectomy in these animals. Sir Victor Horsley then suggested that a similar method of treatment should be adopted in man for myxoedema, so as to arrest the inevitable downward progress of the disease to a fatal termination. Marked improvement followed this operation, notably so in cases recorded by Bettencourt and Serrano, by Bircher, and more recently by Dr. M'Pherson at Stirling. Un- fortunately, in most of the cases thus treated it has been found that the grafted gland after a time shares the fate of the original gland and atrophies. It occurred to the writer that the supply of secretion might be continuously maintained by the internal administration of it, in the form of a glycerine extract of the sheep's thyroid gland. He selected the hypodermic method, and was soon able to show that when the supply of secretion was thus continuously maintained, the symptoms entirely disappeared in an advanced case of myxoedema. It was subsequently shown by Prof. Howitz, in Den- mark, and by Dr. E. L. Fox and Dr. Hector Mackenzie, in England, that the same result was obtained more conveniently when the thy- roid extract was given by the mouth. These observations thus shortly described indicate clearly that the function of the gland is to supply an internal secretion to the blood, which plays a very important part in main- taining the normal metabolism of the tissues generally, more especially of the central nervous and cutaneous systems in the adults, and of the growing bones in the young. The Parathyroid Glands.—Closely associ- ated with the thyroid gland in animals are the parathyroid glands. In rabbits, cats, and dogs these glands can be removed separately from the thyroid gland. In the monkey they are embedded in the thyroid gland, and in thyroid- ectomy are removed along with it. We know nothing definitely yet of the results of disease of these glands in man, though it has been suggested that they may be affected in exoph-