TYPHOID FEVER 179 typhoid fever are mostly found in the intestinal track, mesenteric glands, and spleen. Small ulcers may occur in the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx and the oesophagus. The stomach may show catarrhal changes, and rarely small ulcers or haemorrhages. In the small iiitestine the changes are chiefly in the lower part of the ileum, but may be in its whole length, and even in the jejunum and duodenum. The solitary follicles and Peyer's patches become hypersemic, and the mucous membrane becomes reddened with increased mucous secretion. The hypersemia subsides, and the follicles and patches become turgid and prominent, constituting pale elevations above the general surface of the intestine. The swell- ing is due to a great increase in lymphoid cells which even infiltrate the adjacent mucosa. The cells are for the most part nucleated, and there are other larger multinucleated cells ; the lym- phatic vessels are dilated, and contain prolifer- ating endothelial cells; the blood-vessels are compressed. In many of the swollen follicles and patches the swelling gradually subsides, the contained cells becoming granular or fatty and becoming absorbed. Some of the follicles, especially in severe cases, become the seat of sloughs, soft yellow, or grey, and varying in thickness ; the sloughs may involve the mucous membrane only, or all the muscular coats of the intestine; they are formed of granules, fibrin, corpuscles, and micro-organisms ; the sloughing process appears due to the action of the typhoid and other micro-organisms. Ulcers result from this sloughing process ; these ulcers may be minute and circular from sloughing of the solitary follicles, or oval with their long axes con-esponding to that of a Peyer's patch, and consequently to that of the intestine. The depth of the ulcer depends on the thick- ness of the detached slough ; sometimes it is quite shallow; usually it extends into the mus- cular coat or deeply to the peritoneal coat. The ulcers are mostly irregularly oval, corres- ponding to a part only of a Peyer's patch. The edges of the ulcer are thin, undermined, usually ragged, and float out in water. The base of the ulcer is usually smooth after detachment of the slough. Sometimes the ulcers are serpiginous. Healing occurs by the formation of granulations in the floor of the ulcer, and the epithelium grows gradually over the ulcer from the edge and from a smooth cicatrix sometimes depressed with little, if any, contraction, and is recognis- able for years after the typhoid attack. In the hypersemic stage crowds of typhoid bacilli may be seen by staining and in the lymphatic vessels of the follicles. There may be only one ulcer usually near the ileo-cgecal valve, or the ulcers may be very numerous ; and the greater part of the mucosa of the last foot of the ileum may be a brown- black eschar; or the terminal 6 or 8 inches of the mucous membrane of the ileum may form a large ulcer in which here and there are islets of mucosa. Often ulcers are seen in the lower part of the small intestine, and hypersemic, and raised patches higher up in its length. Some- times most of the ulcers have been healed up before death occurs from other causes. In about one-third of the cases the caecum and colon are affected. The ctecum may have very large irregular ulcers within it; in some cases the colon is the seat of ulcers along nearly its whole length—small circular ulcers which occasionally perforate : this may occur where there are no ulcers in the ileum. There may be no ulceration from first to last, even in cases of long duration which come to the post-mortem table, and it may fairly be inferred that this is even more likely to occur in slight cases which never come to the post-mortem table. The vermiform appendix may be inflamed or ulcerated. Perforation of ulcers occurs from the thinned wall of the intestine rupturing at the seat of an ulcer, or from a sloughing process ; occasionally it occurs in a partly-healed, or even in a com- pletely cicatrised ulcer. Mesenteric Glands.—The glands swell from hypersemia and cell infiltration ; those glands especially are involved most directly connected with the ileum, and so too are the retro-peri- toneal glands. The swelling subsides as the infiltrated cells get fatty and become absorbed, but the glands may soften or actually sup- purate and rupture, producing peritonitis, some- times fatal; there is sometimes considerable gland enlargement with very little intestinal ulceration. The presence of typhoid bacilli in the mesenteric glands is almost constant. The Spleen is nearly always enlarged, and may, in late stages, weigh as much as 20 ozs., and be 3 or 4 times the normal size ; it is relatively most enlarged in children. The capsule is tense, and the pulp dark and soft with imdue distinctness of the Malpighian bodies. Infarcts or abscesses may form in it which may give rise to rupture or to suppurative peritonitis. Typhoid bacilli are nearly, if not always, to be found in the spleen. l^he Liver may be enlarged and pale or hyperaemic; the liver-cells may be granular. The biliary ducts are often inflamed, and also the gall-bladder, which may contain pus or its wall be gangrenous. Aggregations of typhoid bacilli are nearly always detectable in the liver, and the bacilli are often present in the gall- bladder. The Kidneys.—Cloudy swelling of the epi- thelium of the cortical tubes, or signs of acute hsemorrhagic nephritis, or infarcts or micro- scopic abscesses may be present. The typhoid bacilli are found only exceptionally in the kidneys. Heart.—The myocardium may be pale and