THYROID GLAND, SURGERY OF 22 Myxoedema has, however, followed—and some- times rapidly—the removal of one lobe only. It may be necessary to operate under urgent circumstances during an attack of dyspnoea; but in the majority of cases the operation is performed during an interval when the danger of suffocation during the operation is very much diminished. The risk of death occurring from suiTocation during removal of part of the thyroid is undoubtedly very much increased by the administration of a general anaesthetic. It is best, therefore, particularly in those cases where the breathing is already, at the time of opera- tion, embarrassed, and even in those cases where it is known dyspnoea is likely to arise, not to place the patient under a general anaesthetic. Some local means of blunting sensibility may be resorted to, such as the injection of cocaine into the line of the skin incision shortly before operating. The operation is by no means a particularly painful one, and no hesitation need be felt in performing it without any kind of general anaesthetic, should it be desirable or necessary to do so. The administration of a general anaesthetic has caused death during thyroidectomy on numerous occasions, even when no particular danger was apprehended. Death too has arisen, from the anaesthetic, even before the operation has been commenced, sufficiently often to emphasise the danger of its administra- tion. Thyroidectomy may be a comparatively easy operation, and, on the contrary, it may turn out to be a most difficult and tedious one, taxing the patience and skill of the surgeon to the utmost. The object of the operation is to relieve dyspnoea, due to direct and nearly always lateral pressure of the enlarged gland upon the trachea, and as this object can be accomplished by re- moval of one lobe, and at most of part of the other, it is seldom necessary to remove more; and, at any rate, the whole of the gland should not be taken away. If only a small part be left, the risk of myxoedema arising is very much diminished. In performing the operation the most important principle is to gain free access to the parts involved. Some differences of opinion exist among surgeons as to the best skin incision. All agree that it must be a very free one, but upon the direction of the incision there is not quite the same unanimity. Erichsen recommends "an incision in the middle line from the upper border of the tumour to the sternal notch." Kocher, who is certainly the greatest authority upon the surgical treatment of goitre, recommends "a transverse curved incision as the best." Its advantages are, he says, "It falls along the line of cleavage of the skin and gives rise later to an almost impercep- tible scar. A transverse curved incision with the concavity dissected upwards is carried across the most prominent part of the swelling, and is prolonged farther upwards and backwards over the sterno-mastoid upon the side on which the disease is most marked. The incision is place on a higher or lower level, as may be required in goitre situated low down, quite at the lowe part of the neck." Berry, in his exhaustive an excellent treatise on the diseases of the thyroi gland, advocates an oblique incision parallel t the inner margin of the sterno-mastoid. H says, " This is the incision that should b adopted in most cases of extirpation, and i those generally in which the operation is likel to be difficult or dangerous. It gives th operator plenty of room, and enables him t reach the upper horn of the gland withou luidue difficulty. The lower end of the incisio should, in almost all cases, be carried dow to the upper border of the sternum if i be intended to operate upon both lobes c the thyroid, the lower part of the incisio being carried well across the middle line a a somewhat higher level than the top c the sternum." Attention should also be draw to an angular incision which Kocher recon mends, " for the sake of those who have les experience." It is commenced over the prom nence of the sterno-mastoid at the level of th thyroid cartilage, and extends almost transversel in the direction of the skin creases as far as th middle line of the neck, and from thence vert cally downwards to the sternal region. I deeply situated goitres it is prolonged on to th manubrium sterni. Whichever of these incisior is adopted, and there is something to be sai in favour of each, according to the size an position of the tumour, the subsequent stage of the operation are much the same. Th platysma and fascia are to be divided freel to the same extent as the skin. Any veins i the way must be carefully secured between tw catgut ligatures, and divided. If now, b drawing to the outer side the sterno-larynges muscles, sufficiently free access can be obtaine to the gland, the operation may be complete without dividing any muscles. When this ca: be done it is an advantage, but unfortunate! it is seldom possible. Should there be an difficulty, either owing to the size of the goitr or to its fixation, it is better to divide thes muscles and turn them down at once. It ma be requisite also to divide, or to partially divid( the sterno-mastoid muscles. It is much bette to divide all the muscles than to be cramped b; want of room. The capsule of the gland mus be thoroughly exposed. It is not to be opened the object being to remove the gland coverei by its capsule. There may be some difficult in recognising the capsule. It is a very delicat structure. Immediately beneath it large dis tended thin-walled veins, readily torn, will b seen coursing over the surface of the gland The next step is to free the gland, covered b; its capsule, from surrounding structures. Thi must be done with great gentleness, care bein; taken not to tear the capsule, nor any veins