WRIST-JOINT INJURIES 546 the bones of the forearm. The facility with ■which (as before noticed) the ulna can be moved backward and forward does not furnish him with any useful hint. When he moves his fingers along the anterior surface of the radius he finds it more full and prominent than is natural; a similar examination of the posterior surface of this bone induces him to think that a depression is felt about an inch and a half above its carpal extremity. He now expects to find satisfactory proofs of a fracture of the radius at this spot. For this purpose he attempts to move the broken pieces of the bone in opposite directions; but, although the patient is by this examination subjected to con- siderable pain, yet neither crepitus, nor a yield- ing of the bone at the seat of fracture, nor any other positive evidence of the existence of such an injury, is thereby obtained. The patient complains of severe pain as often as an attempt is made to give to the limb the motions of pronation and supination. If the surgeon lock his hand in that of the patient and make extension, even with moderate force, he restores the limb to its natural form, but the distortion of the limb instantly returns on the extension Fig. 1.—From a cast of au ordinary Colles' fracture. being removed. Should the facility with which a moderate extension restores the limb to its form induce the practitioner to treat it as a case of sprain, he will find, after a lapse of time sufficient for the removal of similar swellings, the deformity undiminished. Or, should he mistake the case for a dislocation of the wrist, and attempt to retain the parts in situ by tight bandages and splints, the pain caused by the pressure on the back of the wrist will force him to unbind them in a few hours ; and if they be applied moi-e loosely, he will find at the expira- tion of a few weeks that the deformity still exists in its fullest extent, and that it is now [ no longer to be removed by making extension of the limb. By such mistakes the patient is '. doomed to endure for many months considerable lameness and stiffness of the limb, accompanied by severe pains on attempting to bend the hand and fingei's. One consolation only remains, that the limb will at some remote period enjoy perfect freedom in all its motions, and be completely exempt from pain; the deformity, however, will remain undiminished through life. . . . Let the surgeon apply the fingers of one hand to the seat of the suspected fracture, and locking the other hand in that of the patient, make a moderate extension, until he observes the limb restored to its natural form. As soon as this is effected let him move the patient's hand backward and forward, and he will, at every such attempt, be sensible of a yielding of the fractured ends of the bone, and this to such a degree as must remove all doubts from his mind." Such is the description of the injury as Colles gives it. After an interval of some twenty years Dupuytren published his account, evi- dently without knowledge of the previous de- scription of Colles, and suggests the fracture by crushing of the lower fragment as the lead- ing type of the injury. Every surgeon admits, I believe, the value of the researches of Professor R. W. Smith and of Voillemier in the pathology of these injuries, which have served to correct and complete the descriptions of Colles and of Dupuytren. Since their views have been published we find authorities ranging themselves on opposite sides, according as they adopt the non-impaction theory of Smith, or the opposing doctrine of Yoillemier, that all these injuries are fractures by penetration. Of late the number of recent dissections have forced most writers to admit the occurrence of each form. We have ample proof that the simple transverse fracture without impaction, the impacted, and the fracture par ecrasement with a shattered lower fragment, are all possi- bilities. Intimately connected with the theory of impaction is the explanation of the variability of the symptom so much relied on in the diagnosis: crepitus. Yet any one who will take the trouble to investigate the statements contained in the accounts of recent cases which have been submitted to dissection may find that this symptom has been absent in each form of the injury. We cannot, therefore, rely on its absence as the proof of the existence of impaction in any given case, nor are we for the same reason to abstain from attempting reduction of the deformity for fear of undoing the impaction, or again rely on it as a safeguard against displacement, and so adopt a lax treat- ment. In the study of the pathological varieties of the fracture one must be struck, in the examina- tion of a large series of specimens, with the diff"erences in the degrees and kind of displace- ment presented by individual cases. Clinically the same varieties are observable. In the ordinary run of cases the diagnosis based on the familiar inverted spoon deformity (Fig. 1) is easy, so that to these cases the description of Pouteau applies: " There is, perhaps, no fracture more easy of recognition at a simple glance." The words of Voillemier in his refer- ence to the examples which occur with little or no deformity are worth notice : " But one must be forewarned that in certain cases—and these are not very rare—of penetration but little