577 X-RAYS Twenty-five cases have been under the writer's care, and of these 15 affected the mamma; 2 affected the tongue; 2 affected the scalp; 1 affected the penis and scrotum ; 1 affected the cervix uteri; 1 affected the rectum ; 1 affected the larynx ; 1 affected the glands of the groin ; 1 affected the side of the neck. Nearly all these were for various reasons inoperable cases, the derelicts of surgery, and therefore all the more difficult to treat success- fully, and yet all but three of them showed im- provement, and some of them remarkable im- provement. The breast cases were the most successful, and the tongue the least. The following is an interesting case :—Inoperable ulcerating scirrhus of four years' duration of the left mamma in a woman aged forty-nine, with enlargement of the axillary glands. The ulcer was obliquely placed, and measured 3| inches by 3 inches ; the patient complained of pain, stiffness of the left arm, and insomnia. An exposure of five minutes to the X-rays was given every third day. After five applications the pain and insomnia had gone, and the patient felt better and stronger; the ulcer appeared to be shallower, but was still partly covered with a greenish slough. Rapid improvement continued, and after twenty-two exposures the ulcer was entirely covered with a thin vascular skin. Treatment was now suspended. Three months later the patient was in the same con- dition, but the skin appeared to be a little thicker. Another case was very similar, a large ulcerating surface completely skinning over after nineteen applications, and continuing to improve after the cessation of the treatment. In a case of Dr. Ritchie's of large sarcoma of the side of the neck, recommended to the author for treatment, seventeen exposures were followed by the complete disappearance of the external tumour; the growth, however, continued in- ternally, and dermatitis interfered with the ex- posures, and the patient died. The difficulties of satisfactorily introducing the X-rays into the rectum and vagina have led the author to prefer the use of high frequency currents for such cases ; in fact, there is a strong tendency now to substitute the latter for all cases of malignant disease, whether internal or external. Dr. W. B. Coley has published an important paper on the treatment of sarcoma by the Rontgen rays, and discusses the following con- clusions amongst others:— 1. That the results in the cases thus far treated prove that the Rontgen rays have a remarkable inhibitory action upon the growth of all forms of malignant disease, and this is especially true of sarcoma. 2. That this action, in many cases of even far advanced and inoperable malignant disease, may result in the total disappearance of the VOL. X tumours, often without any breaking down of the tissues, the new growth being apparently absorbed. The Rontgen rays have a very marked in- fluence upon the pain and nearly all types of malignant tumours, causing in many cases en- tire relief. Dr. Clarence Skinner {Journal of Advanced Therapeutics, New York, October 1902) describes 33 cases, including carcinoma of the utenis (8 cases), carcinoma of the breast (8 cases), and others of epithelioma and osteo-sarcoma. The clinical data are summarised as follows: com- plete disappearance of the malignant process has apparently been secured in 3 cases ; per- manent reduction of the tumour in 13 ; tempo- rary reduction with subsequent increase in 1 ; permanent arrest of growth in 2. There was no effect positively demonstrated upon the size of the lesions in 14. Complete permanent relief of pain in 14 cases, complete temporary relief in 2, partial relief in 8, no relief whatever in 4, and in 5 there had been no pain. The author is inclined to recommend that the exposures should not follow one another too rapidly; his best results have been obtained with two or even with one seven-minute ex- posure a week; further, the treatment should be interrupted from time to time, for the patient will continue to improve, the therapeutic effect of the ray being like its effect in producing dermatitis cumulative. The very greatest care should be taken in malignant cases to avoid setting up a dermatitis. Phthisis ; Tubercular Glands ; Sinus.—The Rontgen rays have been tried in cases of phthisis pulmonalis and laryngea by a few observers. Ten cases have been under the author's treat- ment ; 4 improved, the others were unaffected. Dr. P. R. Turnure (J}^etv York Medical Record, 7th February 1903) treated 2 cases of tuber- culosis of the larynx, 1 for four and the other for six weeks without improvement. The results are more favourable in tubercular glands and joints. A large number of the former have been under treatment by the Rontgen rays in the electrical department of the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, and in most cases with beneficial results; it is, in fact, rare to meet with a case which does not improve. Good may also be anticipated in the case of tubercular joints. The following case of Pro- fessor Annandale's will illustrate this :—Case : patient aged twenty-seven, suffering from tubercular disease of the right elbow. The elbow became swollen and very painful after a fall. As it did not improve under rest Professor Annandale excised it. The wound has never healed properly, and there is still pain and considerable swelling. After a month's exposure to X-rays three times a week of five minutes' duration there was decided improvement, the movements at the elbow were fairly good, there 37