79 TOXICOLOGY unconscious and livid, with imperceptible pulse and widely dilated pupils, paralysis of the limbs, and slow, gasping respirations once or twice in the minute, death taking place in twelve hours from respiratory paralysis; the heart continued to beat for many hours after voluntary respiration had ceased. In this case there was neither vomiting nor purging. Death may occur very rapidly without any post-mortem indications. A man ate some mussels and very soon after his face became fiery red and he died in an hour; at the autopsy no signs of gastritis were found, nor was there any obvious cause of death. Oysters also, under the above-named conditions, may develop toxines, which may produce either gastro-enteric or purely neurotic symptoms, or a combination of the two. In the neurotic type of shell-fish poisoning death takes place from respiratory paralysis. In addition to causing poisoning shell-fish may convey disease. Oysters and mussels which have been placed in water contaminated with sewage containing typhoid bacilli are capable of com- municating enterica to those who eat the fish in a raw state. Milk may give rise to illness, either by being contaminated with pathogenic micro-organisms, or from the formation in it of decomposition products. Instances of the first-named group have occurred in which the milk was found to contain streptococci, and bacilli of the type of B. coli communis, which caused an outbreak of disease chiefly among children who had been fed with the milk. In other instances milk has conveyed typhoid fever, either on account of the milk-cans having been washed with germ-laden water, or by transference of germs to the milk from the hands of dairymaids who were nursing cases of typhoid fever. Cows are subject to a number of diseases which may render their milk dangerous to human beings. When milk is thus contaminated it is by no means easy to destroy the germs by subjecting the milk to heat; the spores of many micro-organisms resist a temperature of 212° F. maintained for three- quarters of an hour or more; some anaerobic bacteria are even still more resistent. When milk, derived from healthy cows, is not cooled immediately after milking, especially in hot weather, it is liable to develop early decomposition products which produce nausea, vomiting, cramps, diarrhoea, and collapse. By exposing the milk, warm from the cow, in shallow basins surrounded with cold water or, if necessary, with ice, this danger may be avoided. The greatest risk is incurred when the warm milk, in hot weather, is conveyed to a distance by cart and rail; the continuance of an elevated temperature along with the constant agitation to which the milk is subjected are very liable to promote changes which lead to the formation of toxic products. The ice-creams which are sold in the streets not unfrequently cause illness on account of the decomposition products they contain. In some instances children that have eaten such creams are attacked with symptoms which closely resemble those of meningitis—restless- ness, dulness, insensibility, and retraction of the head ; the symptoms usually subside within forty-eight hours. In other instances these ice- creams are profusely contaminated with micro- organisms, some of which may be pathogenic; this is due to carelessness and to the extreme insanitary conditions under which such creams are frequently made. Cheese.—Instances of poisoning by cheese have occurred from time to time ; the symptoms produced being : pain in the stomach, violent vomiting, diarrhoea, and cramps in the legs; the tongue, at first coated, becomes red and dry; the pulse is weak and irregular, and the face is pale and cyanotic. Old, decayed cheese has caused colic, diarrhoea, diplopia, precordial pain, and collapse. The poisonous agent in cheese has been variously described as tyrotoxicon, a substance which closely resembles diazobenzene; as a toxalbumose, and as a tertiary amine — trimethylamine. ToxiCOITIcinia..—A diseased craving for poisons, or (sometimes) toxiphobia {q-v.). Toxicosis. — A poisoned state or the condition resulting from the presence of toxic, i.e. poisonous, materials in the system ; if these materials are developed in the system the state is called autotoxicosis or autointoxication, and if they are introduced from without it is named exogenic toxicosis. Toxine.—A poisonous ptomaine or nitro- genous compound produced by animal or vegetable cells; it is analogous to a vegetable alkaloid; a toxalbumin. An animal toxine is one produced in animals by the cells of the body, e.g. snake venom; bacteria by their activity (as in diphtheria) produce bacterial toxines, and if the toxines are contained in the bacteria they are called intra-cellular, while if they are found in the surrounding medium they are extra-cellular. See Immunity (Toxic Fil- trates) ; Immunity, Recent Views on ; Tetanus (Toxine); etc. Toxiphobia..—Morbid fear of being poisoned. Toxoid.—A transformation product of a toxine no longer possessing toxic powers; a toxine possessing its haptophore group but having lost its toxophore one. See Immunity, Recent Views on. Toxone.—A toxine incompletely combined with its antitoxine, and on that account