UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE 375 the ovarian pedicle on one side to that of the other; thus the vagina is completely isolated from the general cavity of the peritoneum, and any serious oozing which may occur finds a ready means of exit through the vagina. The pelvis is then cleared of clot and dabs; the intestines are allowed to return into the pelvis. The forceps and dabs are carefully counted to insure that none is left in the abdomen. The incision is then closed in triple or single layers, according to the practice of the surgeon. The writer always closes incisions below the umbilicus in three layers: (1) The peritoneum with a continuous suture of thin silk; (2) the fascia with interrupted suture of fine silkworm gut; and (3) the skin with a continuous suture of thin silk. When it is deemed advisable to drain the pelvis, a thin strip of sterilised gauze is introduced into the pelvis and brought out at the lower angle of the incision. The wound is dressed with a layer of sterilised gauze, and Gamgee tissue maintained in position by means of a manytail of flannel. The patient is then restored to the horizontal position ; all blood and clot is carefully removed from the vagina, and a thin strip of gauze is introduced to conduct away any blood or serum that may subsequently ooze into the vagina. A catheter is then introduced into the bladder, and any urine it contains is withdrawn. The patient is then returned to bed. After-Treatment.—This is conducted on the same lines as after ovariotomy, and as a rule the convalescence is a quick one. Vaginal Hysterectomy.—The preparation of the patient has been already described. In- struments : Clover's crutch, duckbill speculum or Auvard's modification of this useful instru- ment, uterine sound, vesical sound, two volsellse, scalpel, six hfemostatic forceps, dis- secting forceps, three or four long-handled forceps with fenestrated blades, silks of various thickness, needles in handles and curved needles of various sizes, six Gamgee tissue dabs, glass catheter. Steps of the Operation. — The patient is anaesthetised and secured in the lithotomy position by means of Clover's crutch, and arranged so that the perineum faces a good light. The vagina is then exposed by the duckbill speculum, and the cavity thoroughly irrigated with a solution of perchloride of mercury (1 in 1000), or something equally efficacious. The operator, seated at a convenient level, passes the beak of the speculum into the vagina and seizes the cervix with a volsella. If there be much sprouting growth it is sometimes iiseful to detach it with the handle of a knife or a curette, and then thoroughly mop or reirrigate the parts. The assistant empties the bladder with a glass catheter, and then intro- duces the sound and keeps the surgeon informed of the relation of the bladder to the cervix throughout the first stage of the operation. Stage 1.—The cervix is drawn down with a volsella, then with the scalpel the mucous membrane on its anterior aspect is transversely divided along a line well above the cancer, but sufficiently low to avoid wounding the bladder, which is then cautiously separated from the cervix with the forefinger or the handle of the knife. When the lower limit of the utero- vesical pouch is reached the peritoneum is divided with scissors and the fingers enter the peritoneal cavity. Throughout this stage the operator constantly informs himself of the exact position of the bladder by manipulating the sound. Stage 2.—The incision in the mucous mem- brane is now carried round the cervix by means of scissors, and the recto-vaginal pouch is opened. Stage 3.—The mesometria are dealt with in the following manner: A needle in handle armed with silk is made to transfix the con- nective tract close to the side of the cervix in order to avoid the ureter. The object of this ligature is to secure the uterine artery. Fre- quently the artery is distinctly visible, and is then picked up with forceps and tied by itself. As a rule, when the artery on each side is ligatured and the tissues adjacent to them cut with scissors the uterus can be drawn into the vagina and its fundus brought outside. The remaining upper segments of the mesometria are transfixed with silk and securely ligatured, and the uterus detached. These upper liga- tures control the ovarian vessels and surround the Fallopian tubes. Should the ovaries or tubes be diseased, they can at this stage be removed by drawing them into the vagina and securing the pedicles by transfixion with silk. If all the lateral ligatures have been securely applied and hold, there should be no bleeding from the sides, but there is usually some oozing from the anterior and posterior folds. Any vessels which are freely bleeding should be secured with forceps and tied, but in regard to the posterior flap it is an advantage to seize it with a pair of fenestrated forceps and leave them in situ for twelve or even twenty-four hours. The parts are then gently irrigated with warm sterilised water; bleeding points are se- cured with forceps or ligature, the whole cavity is gently mopped out, and a thin gauze drain inserted to allow any serum or blood to drain away ; the bladder is then tested with a sound, the crutch removed, and the patient returned to bed. The above method does not find favour with all operators; many prefer to compress the mesometria with specially constructed forceps and then cut the uterus away. The forceps