X-RAYS 581 terminal of the resonator will give off a very powerful violet-coloured effluve (best seen in the dark). The resonator should be provided with a sliding contact to which the wire from one end of the solenoid can be attached, and this contact should be moved up and down until the best effects are produced; to obtain a more exact adjustment the resonator should be capable of rotation. In some instruments the solenoid is suppressed altogether, and the lower turns of the resonator take its place. Before the invention of the resonator the usual method adopted for producing high frequency currents was to allow the Leyden jars to discharge through the primary of an oil induction coil (see Turner's Medical Electricity, p. 144); d'Arsonval has quite recently reintroduced this method in his bipolar induction coil, but which uses air instead of oil as the circulating medium. This is a bulky instrument, consisting of a cylinder on which the secondary wire is wound, and round it, but separated from it by a layer of air, are a few turns of a thick primary wire supported by insulating legs ; the latter is arranged to slide along and parallel to the axis of the secondary wire. This apparatus is supplied by Gaiffe. The one pole of the secondary wire is attached to the electrode for the patient, the other to earth or also to the patient. Dr. Macintyre has introduced a special de- vice for reversing the current as it comes from the con- fre- densers, so as to make the arrangement more suitable for use with a static machine. Dr. Oudin {Annates d'electrohiologie, J uly-August 1900) makes the following remarks as regards d'Arsonval's bipolar coil:—" When we wish to administer general high frequency treatment to a patient, I do not think that we must attach much importance to this bipolar character, which must perforce exist when the efflux from one end of a single resonator is directed upon an individual. For at every instant when a positive influx passes to such a capacity as the body of a patient, the capacity has induced upon it a negative potential, and vice versa. But I think that in making local applications we get a zone of greater density when a bipolar coil or resonator is used." There are three chief methods of applying the high frequency currents for purposes of treatment:— 1. " Autoconduction." 2. Condensation. 3. Direct local applications, either by a, the effluve; or intercalation of the patient in the circuit by the direct contact of suitable electrodes. Fig. 25.—High quency apparatus. Schall. 1. In "autoconduction" the solenoid is made (Fig. 26) large enough to enclose the patient without touching him, and the patient is placed inside ; he may either stand or recline according to the direction of the long axis of the solenoid, which may be vertical or horizontal, and arranged round a couch. The patient forms the secondary of a gigantic induction coil and will be the seat of induced currents. 2. In " condensation " the patient forms one of the plates of a condenser or Leyden jar ; for this purpose a couch is provided, the back and lower part of which is lined with metal, and carrying a terminal by which it may be attached to the resonator or to one end of the solenoid. Over the metal is placed an insulating material such as felt, and over that the ordinary cushions. The patient reclining on the couch is connected to earth or to the other end of the solenoid by grasping an electrode attached to a chain ; the Fig. 26.—Autoconduction. Schall. other end of the chain may pass to a gas or water pipe, or to the solenoid, or to both. The felt and cushions form the dielectric, and the patient the outer or earthed coating of the condenser. At every electrical oscillation the patient will become charged and discharged, and the charges will vary in sign. 3. The "Effluve." A pointed conductor attached to the resonator is approached to the patient; the conductor must be held in an insulating handle. As the point approaches a violet "effluve," starting from both the point and the patient, will complete the circuit. The form of this " effluve " resembles that of the lines of force between two opposite magnetic poles. If the point be brought too near sparks will pass, and these are unpleasant to the patient. A variety of this method (Fig. 27) is to enclose the pointed conductor in an in- sulator such as ebonite or glass (condensing electodes); such an electrode may be brought into actual contact with the skin, and used either in a labile or stabile method ; it will cause slight burning and tingling sensations. Or a vacuum tube or a tube containing acidu-