201 TYPHOID FEVEE Sir W. Jenner, but is bulky to take ; salol is one of the best intestinal antiseptics. B. naphthol is equally useful. The internal use of mercury in typhoid fever was condemned by Murchison, but has been recommended by Broadbent, and the author's experience agrees with his, that it often lessens tympanites, lowers the pyrexia, and appears to lessen the toxsemic symptoms. It may be given as bichloride grain Jg- ter in die or as calomel in |-grain doses. If there is con- stipation, the calomel is often useful as a laxative as well as an antiseptic. The bichloride is best abstained from when there is meleena. Burney Yeo advocates the internal administration of chlorine water. The carbolic acid treatment readily produces carboluria. During convalescence the patient should be given as strengthening a diet as he can take, and some alcohol is useful as well as dilute acids and bitters. He should sit up in bed as soon as he can do so without becoming tired, and get up when strength allows. It must always be remembered relapses may occur, and, when they commence, liquid food should be at once returned to. As early as possible the patient should be got into fresh air. Antitoxin Treatment.—An anti-typhoid serum has been used, but is not of any proved efficiency. Diarrhoea.—Measures should always be taken to check diarrhoea if the motions are more than two (some say more than four or even eight) in twenty-four hours. Diarrhoea is often due to milk being given too freely or in an unsuitable manner, and lessening the quantity or giving smaller quantities more frequently, or changing the diluent will terminate the diarrhoea ; some- times beef-tea, etc., has to take the place of milk for a time. If changes in diet are not effective, nothing is so useful as an enema of starch with five to ten minims of laudanum. The drugs ordinarily used in diarrhoea are of service in typhoid; salicylate of bismuth in 20-grain doses, with or without a small quantity of Dover's powder, is very efficacious. Intestinal antiseptics sometimes relieve diarrhoea. Constipation.—Some consider a purge, or a series of purges of calomel to be useful at the commencement of the disease, and a purge is often given before the diagnosis has been made, and appears to do no hai-m, but there is no re- liable evidence that they do any good. Later on purgatives may do serious harm, and con- stipation must be dealt with by simple enemata, and it is well to add to them some disinfectant, such as sanitas. During convalescence, bella- donna and aloes in pill is a useful laxative. Peritonitis, from any cause except perfora- tion, is best treated by opivim, and possibly, even when not due to perforation, laparotomy would offer the best chance of recovery. Vomiting may be due to ursemia or to some local abdominal complication, peritonitis, etc. When not due to these it may be treated as is usual in other conditions. Tympanites may be often lessened by attention to the quantity or character of the diet; apart from this, hot fomentations with turpentine or belladonna are the best means of lessening it. Oil of turpentine enemata are recommended by Murchison, or 10-minim doses of oil turpentine by the mouth. Some adopt the ice poultice on the abdomen. The insertion of a hollow tube into the rectum, with attached drainage tube passing into a bucket of water, often allows the escape of flatus, but is apt to lead to urinary retention. Pain in Abdomen is best treated by fomenta- tions with opium. Perforation is so rarely spontaneously re- covered from that operation affords the best chance of recovery; the difficulty rests in decid- ing if perforation has occurred; in many cases operation has been performed for perforation when the symptoms resulted from some other cause, and in many other cases perforation occurs with scarcely any symptoms to indicate it. Melcena.—Opium should be given (in pills, if such can be swallowed), and pushed to the point of contracting the pupils; tincture of hamamelis in 5-minim doses every hour is of great service. Oil of turpentine (a drachm daily in 10-minim doses). Ergot, gallic acid, and even ergotine seem of little use. The patient must be kept absolutely quiet to lessen the probability of recurrence of bleeding, and the food for the time should be diminished in quantity, but water may be given to allay thirst. The ice bag or ice poultice to the abdomen has some restraining effect in meltena, but must be removed after twenty-four hours, or the tissues become frozen and their vitality impaired. Opium enemata are recom- mended. Small quantities of alcohol may be required, but not sufficient to excite the heart's action. Often the pulse becomes rapid and full, threatening recurrence of melsena; this is best met by opium. Murchison strongly recommends the internal administration of spiritus terebinthinse irixv, tinct. opii TTlx, and tannic gr. x, with mucilage every two hours. Ether subcutaneously may be required after profuse meleena, and if collapse be great, saline intravenous or subcutaneous injections. Sleeplessness is due often to headache, and ceases when that is relieved. Trional and paral- dehyde are good hypnotics; sulphonal takes some hours to act and may produce a rash. Morphia may be given if thought necessary, but once begun will be asked for through the whole course of the disease. Headache may be best relieved by 3 grains of acetanilide, repeated from time to time. Delirium requires careful watching of the