VACCINATION 394 some years before its epidemic. There is here no question as to whether children were vaccinated or not vaccinated. The total deaths of children nnder ten were three times as many where vaccination had been in abeyance as it was in places where the law was for the most part complied with. The Commissioners conclude by saying:— "Apart from the difference in the extent of vaccination, no cause has been suggested at all adequate to account for the variations in the age incidence of fatal smallpox upon which we have been dwelling. ... If improved sanita- tion were the cause of the diminished mortality of children in proportion to that borne by those of older years, it is quite impossible to under- stand how its effect should have varied so greatly in these different towns, and why in Gloucester and Leicester the mortality from the disease should have been so largely among children, approaching in that respect the experience of the epoch preceding vaccination." In the same six towns the fatality in the vaccinated was 2-8 per cent., while in unvac- cinated children it was 30"3 per cent. The incidence of smallpox mortality on different classes of the community also furnishes proof of the protective influence of vaccination. Doctors, nurses, hospital attendants, all show similar results. But for vaccination doctors would certainly be far more likely to contract smallpox than other people. As, however, they almost invariably protect themselves by vac- cination and revaccination, their mortality rate is only as 1 to 5"6 in the whole community. The risk they run of taking contagious fevers, for which no protection is possible, is shown by the fact that their mortality from this cause is 3-68 times as high as that of the general public. It has always to be remembered that vaccination takes a certain time to develop its protective influence. The incubation period of smallpox is usually twelve days, occasionally more. The initial illness begins twelve or more days after the poison has been received into the system. Vaccination takes nine days to develop its influence. The attack of smallpox is not pre- vented unless the antidote created by the vaccine vesicles has had its necessary nine days before the fever of smallpox begins. Dr. Gayton reported that at the smallpox hospital in 1871- 77 out of 366 people employed all but one were revaccinated. The one unvaccinated person took it, and at once. The same thing was re- peated later. Dr. Marson, in thirty-six years, had no nurse or servant attacked. Probably some of the nurses and servants in smallpox hospitals have usually had the disease itself, and are protected by their previous illness, but this only refers to a small proportion of the whole staff, and it does not destroy the weight of evidence afforded in support of vaccination. In the recent epidemic (London, 1902) there were in the Mile End Infirmary forty-three nurses or attendants when small-pox was accidentally brought into the wards. Thirty- one of the number had been revaccinated at various dates up to two years before the out- break. Four were revaccinated, two unsuccess- fully. None of these thirty-five contracted smallpox. Of the remaining eight, one was away on sick leave, leaving seven, who all suff"ered from smallpox. Of these three were not revaccinated, and four all sickened with smallpox before their vaccination had had time to protect them, viz. two on the second, one on the third, and one on the sixth day after vaccination. None after nine days. Thus these four cases were incubating smallpox at the time they were vaccinated, and though they might be classed as vaccinated, they were not really under its influence. It is certain that none of the nurses who were revaccinated before exposure to infection contracted the disease, and that all who suffered were either unvac- cinated or revaccinated after they had received the contagion. Dr. Hope in his Report upon the epidemic of smallpox in Liverpool (1902) says: " Nurses, doctors, laundrymaids, and servants at the smallpox hospital in Liverpool are rendered immune from smallpox by efficient vaccination. No one can doubt that if the general public were as efficiently vaccinated as the hospital staff they would be equally im- mune from smallpox." ^ Experience of this kind could be quoted from every smallpox hospital. Where vaccination has been evaded, or unsuccessful, or postponed even for a few days, the infection is taken; not where it has been efficiently performed before exposure to infection. Among the Post-Office staff in London, averag- ing, at that time, 10,504 persons, there was not a single death from smallpox in the ten years 1871 to 1880, though this included the great epidemic of 1871. During the ten years 1891 to 1900, the Post-Office service of the United Kingdom employed 692,852 persons. Among them, in the ten years there were two deaths from smallpox.2 j,^ recent epidemic (1902) one Post-Office servant died of smallpox at Bury St. Edmunds. He had refused to be revac- cinated on his appointment, and by some ad- ministrative defect he had been allowed to evade the regulation. In the Navy revaccination has been the rule since 1864. From 1895 to 1900 inclusive there have been in all nine deaths from smallpox; six of these have occurred off China, one in India, and two in the irregular forces. Probably all were due to evasion of the regulations. In the Army revaccination has been the rule ' Report of the Medical Officer of Health, Liverpool, 1902. - Official letter from Postmaster - General to Dr. Edwardes.