228 UNCONSCIOUSNESS matic, syphilitic, malarial, toxic, etc., due to these factors respectively. For simplicity these types may be tabulated as follows:— 1. Without loss of consciousness, but with spasm 2. With loss of consciousness, but no spasm 3. Loss of consciousness and motor spasm Concussion and Compression of the brain re- quire but brief notice here, as the subject is so fully dealt with in works on Surgery. Con- cussion includes all those instances in which there is unconsciousness after injury (to a greater or less extent), unaccompanied by paralysis; compression includes all those in which there is paralysis. In concussion the unconsciousness is attended by pale face and cold skin; the pulse is weak, often irregular or imperceptible ; the pupils vary, but usually respond to light; breathing is shallow; urine and fteces pass in- voluntarily, but there is no paralysis of the sphincters nor any other symptoms of paralysis ; the temperature is usually lowered. After the stage of collapse the patient can usually be roused. There is, however, usually some head- ache and drowsiness which may last some time. Compression is attended by definite evidence of paralysis—stertorous, oppressed and slow breathing ; dilation of pupils, with occasionally insensibility to light; slow pulse, relaxation of the sphincters, coma, and paralysis. Other cases, however, occur in which the unconsciousness is by no means complete, and there may be delirium with or without spasms or convulsions. Where the insensibility and paralysis increase in severity and extend to the functions of de- glutition and respiration, a fatal result is apt to occur. Swnstrolce, when due either to the direct rays of the sun (coup de soleil), or indirectly to heat or other influences (com/j de chaleur), is attended by loss of consciousness. Usually the fatal character of the heat is derived from aerial mois- ture. The bodily causes arising in connection with faulty habits or diseases of the individual are of special importance, and among these may be mentioned fatigue, over-exertion, overcrowd- ing, bad ventilation, unsuitable dress, retained excretions, defective secretions, in fact, anything tending to debilitate or contaminate the system. Injuries to the head, malaria, scorbutic taint, venereal disease, former attacks of insolation, and alcoholism, all predispose to its occurrence. Malaria, syphilis, and alcoholism not only play an important part in the etiology of insola- tion, but they also tend to modify and influence the svibsequent history of the individual, and give rise to symptoms of great variety and com- plexity. The writer found that out of fifty-five cases of affections of consciousness following sun- strokes eight had malaria, five syphilis, and seven had been alcoholic ("Sunstroke," Diet. Psych. Med.). In addition to the actual loss of consciousness consequent upon the sunstroke, there are apt to be symptoms of varying degrees of severity due to impaired functional energy of the cerebro-spinal system, and this impairment shows itself either in motor paralysis, sensory paralysis, either of common or special sensation, hyper- and dystesthesise of the nerves of common and special sense, in debility and undue excita- bility of emotional centres, and in similar states of the cerebral hemispheres and spinal cord. The mental sequelae are of extreme interest, and the unconsciousness is often attended with meningitis or cerebral damage which may de- stroy the life or intellect sooner or later, or {Abortive. Feigned. Hysterical. Partial. Psychic, aifecting one or several senses. Masked, or mental automatism. Vaso-motor. Thalamic. Idiopathic, without known lesion. Jacksonian, with local lesion. Traumatic, organic lesion usually. i Gastro-intestinal. Reflex \ Hystero-epilepsy. Organic disease Toxic J Renal, j Ovarian. y Laryngeal and auditory. iCerebral. Cerebellar. Spinal. (Syphilis. Malaria. Fevers, etc. Drugs.