URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 299 observed. Seeing that the chromogens of urine tend to yield pink and purple colours with nitric acid, it is necessary that the green tint of biliverdin should be clearly seen, in order that the presence of bile-pigment may be rendered certain. When the quantity of bilirubin present is scanty, and especially when the indoxyl com- pounds are at the same time abundant, Gmelin's test may yield equivocal results. In such cases, Huppert's test, although not quite so simple, affords an excellent means of detecting bile- pigment. The pigment is precipitated by the addition of milk of lime, and the filtered pre- cipitate, which will be yellow if bile be present, is treated with alcohol to which a few drops of dilute sulphuric acid have been added. On heating a rich green colour is obtained. The biliary acids, like the pigments, are met with in icteric urines, but their detection hardly comes within the scope of clinical medicine, and, seeing that the more recent investigations have tended to abolish the distinction formerly drawn between what was regarded as hepatogenous and hsematogenous jaundice, their presence in varying amounts has lost much of the diagnostic significance formerly attached to it. Their presence in traces in normal urine has been asserted and also denied. It is here only necessary to emphasise the fact that Pettenkofer's test is not directly applicable to urine, as other constituents of that liquid yield colour reactions not to be definitely distinguished from that yielded by the bile acids. Hence their satisfactory detection be- comes a matter of difficulty and involves their isolation. Cholesterin is not met with in the urine as a biliary constituent in cases of jaundice; when present it is derived from the kidneys or urinary passages, except in the very rare instances in which gall-stones enter the urinary passages by a fistulous opening. XV. Pnbumaturia This is the name given to a rare condition in which free undissolved gas is present in the bladder and is passed in bubbles with the urine, occasionally with an audible sound. Cases of pneumaturia fall into three classes, viz. :— 1. Those in which air has been introduced from without, either in catheterisation or for the purpose of distending the bladder. This variety is clearly of no clinical importance. 2. In some cases a fistulous opening exists between the bowel and the urinary bladder, most commonly in association with malignant growths of the rectum or sigmoid flexure. In such cases the escaping gas has a fsecal odour, and fsecal particles may at times be found mixed with the urine. 3. In the cases of the third class the gas is formed in the bladder itself as a result of bacterial processes. Such formation of free gas is usually met with in cases of diabetes in which the bladder has become infected by one of several kinds of bacteria or yeasts, and the sugar undergoes fermentation with the develop- ment of carbon dioxide {see "Bacteriology of Urine"). As the absorption of gases from the bladder takes place somewhat rapidly, a considerable development of gas is necessary in order that the symptom of pneumaturia may be produced. XVI. Urinary Sediments The microscopical and chemical investigation of sediments constitutes an important part of the clinical examination of urine. When the sediments are abundant they may be taken up by means of a pipette from the bottom of the urine as it stands in a conical glass, or may be drawn off from a burette in which some of the urine has been placed. When, on the other hand, it is necessary to institute a careful search for structures or casts which may only be present in very small numbers, it is necessary to centrifuge a portion drawn from the lower layers of the liquid after it has stood for some time. Urinary sediments may be grouped in three main classes:— 1. Unorganised sediments consisting of in- organic salts or organic compounds which have been deposited either in an amorphous or crystalline state. 2. Organised sediments, including cells de- rived from the blood, from the kidneys, or from the walls of the urogenital tract, and with these it is convenient to include the important structures known as casts, which frequently enclose cellular structures of various kinds. 3. Accidental contaminations which are apt to find their way into the urine, and which, although themselves of no clinical importance, require to be recognised lest they should be mistaken for true urinary deposits. 1. Unorganised Sediments.—Of the sedi- ments belonging to the first of these groups some are extremely common, and are met with every day, others are seldom seen, and others again are so extremely rare that from a practical point of view they amount to little more than clinical curiosities. Of most of the sediments in question it will only be necessary to give a brief description in this place, seeing that their significance has been dealt with in the more chemical portions of the present article. Amorphous Urates.—These are the commonest of all the sediments met with in urine. They consist of a mixture of uric acid salts, including those of sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium, and especially those of the two first-named metals. It has been usually held that they consist of the so-called quadriurates,