217 ULCERS AND ULCERATION liable to become infected in the presence of an ulcer than after this has healed. The quality of the blood may be improved by the administration of iron, strychnine, quinine, and similar tonics. IIL When an imperfect nerve-supply is the main factor underlying ulcer formation, prophy- laxis is the chief consideration. In patients suffering from spinal injuries or diseases, cere- bral paralysis, or affections of the peripheral nerves, all sources of irritation, such as ill-fitting splints or tight bandages, moist applications, and hot bottles, should be avoided. Any part liable to pressure, from the position of the patient or otherwise, must be carefully protected by pads of wool, air-cushions, or water-bags, and must be kept absolutely dry. The skin should be hardened by daily applications of methylated spirit. Should an ulcer form in spite of these pre- cautions, the mildest and least irritant anti- septics must be employed for bathing and dressing it, and as far as possible all dressing should be dry. Balsam of Peru is a suitable application in these ulcers until they assume the characters of the aseptic healing sore. The perforating ulcer of the foot calls for special treatment. To avoid pressure on the sole of the foot the patient must be confined to bed. As the main local obstacle to healing is the down-growth of epithelium along the sides of the ulcer, this must be bodily removed by the knife or sharp spoon. The base also should be excised and any bone which may have be- come involved should be gouged away, so as to leave a healthy and vascular surface. The cavity thus formed is stuffed with iodoform gauze and encouraged to heal from the bottom. After the ulcer is healed the patient should wear in his boot a thick felt sole with a hole cut out opposite the cicatrix. When a joint has been opened into, the difficulty of thoroughly getting rid of all unhealthy and infected granu- lations is so great that amputation is the speediest and most satisfactory treatment. It is to be borne in mind, however, that ulcers sometimes recur on the stump after amputation. Stretching of the plantar nerves has been successful in hastening the healing of perfor- ating ulcers (Chipault). The treatment for any nervous disease or glycosuria which may coexist is, of course, clearly indicated. The ulcer which forms under callosities on the sole of the foot is treated by paring away all the thickened skin, after softening it with soda fomentations, removing the unhealthy granula- tions, and applying stimulating dressings. IV. Treatment of Ulcers due to Constitutional D>/scrasi(e.—When ulcers are associated with such constitutional diseases as diabetes, Bright's disease, scurvy, or gout, these must be treated on general principles. Tuberculous and syphilitic patients must also receive appropriate medicinal and dietetic treat- ment for their general conditions. The tuberxulous ulcer, however, calls for special local treatment, which, in the first place, consists in the thorough removal of all tissue invaded by the bacillus or its products. By means of knife, scissors, or sharp spoon, all foci of tuberculous disease, whether in the skin or in deeper parts, must be freely removed, so as to leave a healthy surface from which granu- lations may spring up. Should the raw surface left be extensive and likely to result in an un- sightly scar, much benefit may result from skin-grafting. In some cases the area involved is so extensive that the surgeon may hesitate to excise it bodily. The alternative is to clip or scrape away all grossly diseased tissue and granula- tions, to slit up all undermined sinuses, and then to purify everything with undiluted car- bolic acid, after which an ordinary boracic dressing is applied. By many iodoform is held in high esteem as an agent which counteracts the tubercle bacillus and its products. The healing of such sores is often slow and tedious, and experience shows that frequent changes in the dressings employed are often beneficial. Si/p>hilitic Ulcer.—No ulcerative process responds so readily to medicinal treatment as the syphilitic ulcer does to full doses of potas- sium iodide and mercuiy and the local applica- tion of black wash. When the ulceration has lasted for a long time, however, and is wide- spread and deep, the duration of treatment is materially shortened by a thorough scraping with a sharp spoon. B. Treatment in 7'elation to the Condition of the Ulcer.—1. Ulcers in a Weak Condition.—If the cause of the weak state of the ulcer be general anaemia, or kidney disease accompanied by oedema, these affections must first be treated on general medical lines. Locally the im- perfect granulations should be scraped away, and stimulating agents, such as red lotion or sulphate of copper (two grains to the ounce), applied to the raw surface till healthy granula- tions form. Frequently this state of ulcers is due to an indurated condition of the surroiuiding tissues, or to the base of the ulcer having become ad- herent to bone or dense cicatricial tissue. In such cases incisions into the parts with a view to facilitating contractions are most useful. When the ulcer has got into a weak condition from the prolonged use of moist dressings, these must be stopped, the redundant granulations clipped away with scissors, the surface rubbed with a silver nitrate stick or a piece of sul- phate of copper (bluestone), and dry dressings applied. When the ulcer has assumed the characters