PERUANA 444 VERRUGA early development and gradual retrogression of eruption with coincident general improvement. Prophylaxis.—This consists in the avoidance of endemic areas by new-comers, especially at periods of prevalence and when the soil is being- disturbed. Treatment.—Removal, if possible, from the endemic area and to a warm place at sea-level is the first indication, as cold represses the eruption, and low barometric pressure favours hfemorrhage. In severe cases diet should be nourishing and easily digested, and drugs by the mouth avoided, if possible, in order to pre- vent disturbance of digestive function. There is no specific treatment, but Odriozola recom- mends the administration in milder cases of arsenic and iron. He also thinks a decoction of maize a useful diaphoretic, and recommends oxygen inhalations and, for the obstinate head- ache, iced compresses. Cold bathing is contra- indicated, but the skin must be kept clean and aseptic, and any ulcerating or gangrenous growths ligatured or excised. Complications must be treated on ordinary principles, but styptics, compresses, and transfusion apparatus should be at hand in case of haemorrhage. Version. /See Labour, Obstetric Opera- tions (Version); Labour, Diagnosis and Mechan- ism {Transverse Lies); Pregnancy, H^emor- EHAGE (Accidental and Unavoidable, Treatment); etc. Vertebra,.—One of the bones composing the spinal or vertebral column; it is cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, or coccygeal according to the region in which it is situated. >S'ee Spina Bifida ; Spine, Surgical Affections of ; etc. Vertebra,!.—Belonging to a vertebra or to the spinal column, e g. the vertebral artery. See Aneurysm (Vertebral Artery); Arteries, Ligature of (Vertebral). Vertex.—The top or crown of the head, especially in relation to the part which presents or comes first in normal labour. See Labour, Physiology op {Factors, Passenger). Vertig^O. See also Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Aural Vertigo, Meniere's Disease); Brain, Affections op Blood-Vessels {Anaemia, Sympto7ns); Brain, Tumours of {Symptoms); Brain, Cerebellum, Affections of {Experi- mental Physiology): Ear, Examination of {Symptomatology, Vertigo); Equilibrium ; Gout {Irregular, Nervous System); Hysteria {Infan- tile) ; Larynx, Neuroses of {Laryngeal Vertigo); Physiology, Cerebellum (Functions); Stomach AND Duodenum (Geiieral Symptomatology, Ver- tigo).—Except when the body is at rest and when equilibrium is maintained, as in any mass of inert matter, by the ordinary laws of gravity, equilibration is normally effected by muscular activity. The muscles specially concerned in the maintenance of equilibrium are those of the head, neck, spine, and lower limbs, all of which are innervated by the cerebral cortex, acting largely under the influence of the cerebellum. The cerebellum is a co-ordinating centre to which are transmitted various centripetal stimuli, affording information as to the relation of the body to surrounding objects. The chief afferent impressions are (1) those from the semicircular canals of the internal ear, whose endolymph exercises a varying pressure upon the end-organs there, under the influence of movements of the head and of gravitation; (2) those from the skin of the parts on which the body is resting; (3) those from the muscles and joints concerned in maintaining the posture, especially the muscles of the spine and lower limbs; (4) those from the muscles moving the head and eyes, which indicate the relation to the body of objects seen. The cerebellum, receiving impressions from all these various peripheral sources, exercises in turn an efferent action upon the cerebrum, and thence upon the various muscles which subserve equilibra- tion. A direct influence of the cerebellum upon the spinal muscles has been described by some, the hypothetical cerebello-spinal paths being through the nuclei of Deiters, and thence by the vestibulo-spinal tracts to the cord. More probably, however, the cerebellum exerts its influence upon the muscles not directly, but by intermediation of the cerebral cortex. Each cerebellar hemisphere is intimately connected with the contra-lateral motor cortex by means of the corresponding superior cerebellar peduncle, leading from the cerebellar cortex and dentate nucleus to the contra-lateral red nucleus and optic thalamus, and from both the latter onwards to the frontal lobe. That this is the true mechanism is rendered still more probable by the recent researches of Pagano, who, on stimulating one lateral lobe of the cerebellum, obtained movements of the homo- lateral trunk muscles. Such movements were abolished if the contra-lateral motor areas of the cerebral cortex were extirpated. By vertigo or giddiness is meant that dis- agreeable sensation which results if the sense of equilibrium is disturbed. The motor act of normal equilibration, once acquired, does not form part of our ordinary consciousness. When an individual has once learned to balance him- self, whether standing, sitting, walking, riding, skating, etc., the movements necessary for maintaining that particular posture are, generally speaking, carried out automatically or subconsciously by menas of the mechanism already described. It is only when some flaw occurs in this cerebellar mechanism or in the higher centres that the individual becomes aware that something is wrong. The sensation of giddiness then at once arises. This sensation may be accompanied by movement or sense of