URETHRA, DISEASES OF 260 He is anaesthetised, and placed in the lithotomy position, Wheelhouse's staff being passed along the urethra until its point touches the stricture, the groove on the staff looking towards the floor of the urethra. The surgeon cuts down upon the groove, making a skin incision of about an inch and a half in length. The assistant then rotates the staff to engage its hook in the upper angle of the wound, and draws it upwards to stretch the urethra in this position. A pair of pressure forceps are placed upon each edge of the wound to act as retractors, and by this means the urethra immediately in front of the anterior end of the stricture is converted into a lozenge-shaped space. The surgeon takes a fine probe and carefully explores the lower angle of this lozenge to ascertain the position of the urethra, and he may have to explore many false passages before he discovers it. When it is found he passes a probe-pointed director on- wards until it lies freely in the urethra beyond the stricture. The stricture is divided by a straight bistoury passed along the groove in the director, and when the division is complete a probe-pointed gorget is pushed along the urethra into the bladder. A full-sized silver catheter is passed through the meatus over the gorget into the bladder, the gorget is withdrawn, the pressure forceps are taken off, and a dressing is applied to the wound which is left unsutured. The catheter is tied into the bladder, but its end is not plugged, as it is important that the urine should run away freely from the bladder. The catheter is retained for three or four days, and after its removal a steel sound is passed every third day until the external wound is completely healed. The after-treatment of the case is the same as that described at page 259. In Syme's operation the patient is anaesthetised, and the staff in passed before the patient is put into the lithotomy position. The narrow terminal portion is passed through the stricture until its shoulder is stopped, the patient is then trussed, an incision is made exactly in the median line, and is carried through the urethra vmtil the staff is exposed. The stricture is divided by passing a bistoury along the groove in the thin part of the staff. The staff is withdrawn, and a full-sized catheter is passed into the bladder, if necessary with the aid of a blunt-pointed gorget in the wound. The subsequent treat- ment is that described above (p. 259). It often happens that the patient's condition renders it impossible to keep a catheter in the bladder, and in such cases a piece of catheter may be inserted into the bladder through the perinseal wound, special precautions being taken to pre- vent the drain dropping into the bladder, as it may then be lost sight of and form the nucleus of a vesical calculus long after the operation. Cock's operation opens the urethra behind the stricture and without a guide, by cutting accurately in the middle line of the perinseum. whilst the operator has the index finger of his other hand in the rectum. The urethra is opened in front of the prostate and a catheter is passed into the bladder through the wound, is cut short and tied in with tapes. Mr. Jacob- son points out that this operation is not easy for one who only practises it occasionally, and that it is a more severe operation than the size of the wound would suggest. Strictures of the urethra have sometimes been enlarged by forcible splitting, and in other cases electricity has been employed for the pur- pose of electrolysis, but both these methods have now fallen into disuse. Rupture of the Urethra.—The urethra is readily ruptured by such direct violence as falling astride a bar or from a kick in the peri- useum, but it is sometimes the result of indirect violence or it is a complication of fractured pelvis. The rupture is either partial or com- plete, and may coexist with a mere contusion of the perinseum. The symptoms are generally severe pain, with greater or less difficulty in passing water. A tense and tender swelling forms in the perinseum, and there may or may not be bleeding from the orifice of the urethra. The treatment in the slightest forms should be expectant, as it is possible that the urethra may only be bruised. The patient is put to bed, and the swollen perinseum is carefully watched to see that no extravasation of urine or sup- puration takes place. The perinseal hsematoma should be incised if the temperature rises or if there is evidence of extravasation. More usually, however, there is no doubt as to the character of the injury, and the surgeon should then make an immediate attempt to pass a full- sized silver catheter, which should be tied in if he is so fortunate as to be successful. A median perinseal incision should be made if the rupture is associated with much bruising. When it is impossible to pass a catheter the patient should be placed in the lithotomy position, and a grooved staff should be passed along the urethra until it reaches the seat of injury. An incision is then made in the middle line until the staff is exposed, and the ruptured urethra can be ex- plored. It is easy enough to find the anterior end of the torn urethra through which the staff" projects, but it may be extremely difficult to find the posterior portion. The search, however, may be rendered easier by remembering that the posterior portion of the urethra in such cases usually lies nearer to the anus than the penile part, whilst pressure upon the bladder may cause a few drops of urine to trickle from the torn end. A catheter should, if possible, be passed from the meatus into the bladder; but if this is impossible the wound may be left un- closed and lightly packed with gauze, for the bladder will tend to empty itself through the torn end of the urethra without any dangerous