UNCONSCIOUSNESS 226 We may assume that the sleep, though appar- ently profound, has really only suspended some of the highest level functions, leaving uncon- trolled play to the lower levels. During the fully awake state the highest level has little or no knowledge of what happened when only the lower levels were at work. Sometimes, in cases of exhaustion, deep sleep is followed by a partial awakening attended by confusion and pranks of the senses, and later in the day complete awakening. In other types abnormal or automatic states are preceded by profound sleep, the normal state only being reached again after prolonged sleep. After any injury or shock the power of recall of mnemonic images may be inhibited, and recent or remote events may, for the time being, be quite obli- terated. This inhibitory process may extend both back- ward and forward, and there may, or there may not, be recovery from the loss. It is assumed that either the registration of anterior states is interfered with or effaced ; or if persisting, their power of revivification by association with the present is destroyed. In organic brain disease the former is probably the case, whereas in most of the known cases of double consciousness the latter is the probable explanation, and the coupling apparatus between the past and present is rendered inert by some defect in its organisa- tion. Numerous cases are recorded in which— through injury or shock—a blow on the head, a fall, a fever, or an acute illness may produce effacement from the memory of events of either recent or remote occurrence. Owing to trau- matism extensive periods of time may be obliterated. External violence, causing concus- sion or injury to the brain structures with loss of consciousness, will require great care in the for- mation of a diagnosis. The fact of the external injury is usvially obvious, and the immediate un- consciousness may be due to shock or actual damage to the skull, membranes, or brain sub- stance. The writer has seen several cases in which not only has unconsciousness immediately followed the injury, but at a subsequent period, months or even years later, curious anomalies of unconsciousness have occurred. These abnormal states may be likened to double consciousness, inasmuch as the patient may for weeks or even months respond to external impressions in a dazed, confused manner, and be apparently in a degree conscious. On awakening, however, to full consciousness there is more or less com- plete failure to recall the details of the partially conscious period. The failure to recall events may be complete for several days, but it is not common in such cases to have complete failure in regaining their knowledge. When dealing with loss of consciousness due to injury, it is important to note that ti'ivial accidents may cause lacerations of the brain substance or even extensive meningeal hsemor- rhages. On the other hand, the injury may have occurred in consequence of some form of cerebral seizure. In an epileptic attack the period of unconsciousness is usually of short duration ; and the presence of signs of paralysis, unilateral rigidities or clonic spasms, inequalities of the pupils, or conjugate deviation of the head and eyes, will help to indicate the exist- ence of some organic mischief. The three forms of epilepsy—viz., gravid mal, petit mal, and epileptic vertigo—are regarded as but different degrees of the same morbid state, and the types are so common and so well known that it is not necessary to do more than merely refer to them. The coma following epilepsy has in it- self nothing distinctive. Note, however, may be made that many of the hallucinatory aurse preceding the actual attack, also the automatic states either preced- ing or following the fit, are evidences of partial unconsciousness as compared with the more profound coma. The next type of unconsciousness is seen in the insane, and as the writer has pointed out ("Double Consciousness," Brit. Med. Journ. Sept. 23, 1899), there are two main groups according as the condition is complete or incom- plete. In complete alternation the personality of the individual is entirely different in the two states: there is no continuity of thought, and the memory of one state is absent during the occurrence of the other. In the " partial " types the variations may depend upon sensory ex- periences which are different to those habitual to the normal self, and there may be new bodily sensations, or loss of old ones, and there may be illusions of identity of part or of the whole of the individual. The anoBsthetic hysterical types are those in which the symptoms are mainly hysterical with anaesthesia and temporary amnesia. In these cases there are certain " inhibitions " (Janet) or " negative lesions " (Hughlings Jackson) which prevent the recall or revival of the former sensations. Thus, the occurrence of anfesthesia or akinsesthesia may be attended and followed by an amnesia which forms the basis of a change in personality. Another type in which the individual assumes the possession of a mediumship and acts as if animated by others, living or dead, is fairly common. Automatic writing, inspirational speaking, trance utter- ances, etc., fall into this category. Psychologically considered it appears justi- fiable to conclude with regard to all these con- ditions of partial consciousness that in the abnormal states the permanent group or mass of individual feelings is only in part or slightly subject to the power of volition. There are wanting those conscious accompaniments which go to raise consciousness into self-consciousness, and the disjoining of these bodily feelings and