216 ULCERS AND ULCERATION Elevation of the part to facilitate the venous return is also most important. The limb should be placed on pillows, or the foot of the bed raised upon blocks, so that the ulcer lies at a higher level than the heart. These measures will at the same time encourage the absorption of inflammatory exudations around the ulcer, and this may be aided by massage. The use of elastic pressure or of strapping also accelerates the removal of exudation, and so facilitates the contraction of the sore. When the induration is very dense nothing is so good as blistering. A cantharides plaster, or a few coats of blistering fluid, may be applied all over the indurated area, avoiding the open surface. The removal of all sources of irritation, such as unsuitable dressings, ill-fitting splints, irritat- ing applications, and, above all, septic organisms and their products, is imperative. A septic ulcer must be thoroughly disinfected by washing not only the open surface, but also the skin for some distance around it, with lysol (1 in 100) to remove grease, and then with Lister's strong solution, or carbolic lotion (1 in 20). Hair-covered parts should be shaved. The raw surface should then be swabbed over with undiluted carbolic acid. If the granulations are oedematous and unhealthy they may be removed with a sharp spoon. An antiseptic dressing of gauze or boracic lint is then applied and changed daily till the wound assumes a healthy appearance. As in all conditions in which the patient's health is below par, good nourishing food, tonics, and general hygienic treatment are clearly indicated. By paying attention to these general rules, and by employing certain special measures suited according to the particular varieties of ulcers in hand, the conditions of a healing sore will soon be obtained. Management of a Healing Sore.—Perhaps the best dressing to apply to a healing sore is a layer of Lister's perforated oiled-silk protective, which is made to cover the raw surface and about a quarter of an inch beyond its margins. Over this three or four thicknesses of boracic lint, or of sterilised gauze wrung out of boracic lotion, or sterilised (boiled) water, are applied, and covered by a moderate quantity of anti- septic absorbent wool. A splint is applied to insure rest, and the part is elevated to avoid congestion. Once in two or three days is often enough to renew the dressing, and care must be taken to avoid any rough handling of the sore. Any discharge which lies on the surface should be removed by a gentle stream of lotion rather than by rubbing. The area around the sore should be carefully cleansed before the fresh dressing is applied. In some cases healing goes on more rapidly under a dressmg of weak boracic ointment (one- quarter the strength of the pharmacopoeial pre- paration). We have found the daily application of bovinine and similar preparations useful in promoting the growth of epithelium and hasten- ing healing. In other cases any local applica- tion seems to irritate the sore and hinder healing. Under these conditions it has been recommended that a wire cage covered with moist antiseptic gauze be placed over the sore and removed frequently to allow of the discharge being bathed from the surface of the sore. In the treatment of aseptic healing sores, dusting powders and oily or moist dressings should, as a general rule, be avoided. Treatment of Special Varieties of Ulcers.— Before beginning to treat a given ulcer two questions have to be answered: first, what is the cause underlying this ulcer 1 and, second, in what condition do I find it? or, in other words, in what particulars does it diff'er from a healing sore 1 If the cause be a local one, it must be re- moved ; if a constitutional one, means must be taken to counteract it. This done, the condition of the ulcer must be so modified as to bring it into the state of a healthy healing sore, after which it will be managed on the lines already laid down. A. Treatment in relation to the Cause of the Ulcer.—I. Traumatic Group.—The prophylaxis of these ulcers consists in rigidly excluding bacteria, by cleansing crushed or bruised parts with antiseptic lotions, and applying mild, non- irritating dressings, such as boracic lint and corrosive wool, and properly adjusted splints. These measures will often prevent a grossly injured portion of skin from sloughing, and will insure its asepticity should it do so. In the event of the skin giving way the same form of dressing should be continued till the slough has separated and a healthy granulating surface is formed. The protective dressing appropriate to a healing sore is then substituted. The treatment of hums and scalds is described in vol. ii. p. 36. Pressure sores should be prevented by care- fully padding, with rings of absorbent wool, any bony points liable to be unduly pressed upon by splints. The use of a dry dusting powder materi- ally helps the avoidance of pressure sores. When they occur they are treated by protective dressings. II. In the case of ulcers due to interference with venous rettirn, for example those associated with varicose veins, the primary indication is to elevate the limb to facilitate the free flow of blood in the veins, and so insure that a supply of pure, healthy blood shall reach the sore. Should the varicose veins be suitable for opera- tive treatment, this often greatly expedites the healing of an ulcer, although it is to be borne in mind that the operation wound is more