370 UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE glands. There is very little accurate knowledge regarding its early stages, and the writer has only had one opportunity of obtaining a can- cerous uterus before it had extended to the muscular wall. The disease remains for a long time restricted to the body of the uterus, and may creep into the uterine sections of one or both Fallopian tubes; it rarely invades the cervix, and then only in the late stages of the disease. It is apt to perforate the wall of the uterus and infect the peritoneum (Fig. 8). It is only in the last fifteen years that the importance of cancer of the body of the uterus has been cleaidy appreciated, and this was due to the fact that there were no means available for the proper examination of the interior of the organ, and as a result the description of diseases of the endometrium was disfigured or obscured Fio. 8.—A cancerous uterus in sagittal section ; a small process of cancer protruded through the uterus and infected the peri- toneum, which contained thousands of secondary nodules. (From the writer's book on Tuinours.) by a crowd of terms, such as senile endometritis, malignant endometritis, villous endometritis, and so on. When the plan of mechanically dilating the cervical canal was introduced, so that the endometrium could be examined and fragments obtained for tlie laboratory, then light began to shine and we are in possession of some accurate data. As in other organs cancer of the body of the uterus consists of cell-columns, the cells being identical with the epithelial cells of the endo- metrium (Fig. 9). The disease assumes two distinct forms ; thus it may appear as an eroding ulcer penetrating the muscular wall of the uterus, and sometimes even perforating the serous coat. In the common form it gives rise to luxuriant masses of soft succulent and vascu- lar polypoid-like masses projecting into the cavity of the uterus, and this is the variety which used to be termed villous endometritis. As the diagnosis of cancer of the body of the uterus is largely determined by the assistance of the microscope, it is essential for those who venture to give opinions on this point to be thoroughly familiar with the various abnor- malities of the corporeal endometrium, and especially those which are known as glandular polypi. Although in writings and in clinical work we treat very definitely of cancer of the cervical endometrium and cancer of the corporeal endo- metrium, it is well to understand that cases come to hand in which, after the uterus has been removed, it is extremely difficult on ex- amining the organ to state positively whether the disease arose in the body of the organ or in the upper segment of the cervical canal (Fig. 10). The writer is also convinced that there are Fio. 9.—Microscopic characters of cancer of the corporeal endo- metrium : from a scraping. (From the writer's work on Diseases of Women.) two species of cancer arising in the corporeal endometrium, and that these species are not only distinct in their histologic features, but also in their gross characters and clinical aspects (Fig. 11). The commoner species resembles, and indeed is very similar to that which attacks the cervi- cal endometrium, except in the more perfect columnar type of the epithelium composing the cancer columns. The rarer species is that which has been described as "malignant adenoma" by more than one writer, and this is due to the fact that the normal features of the uterine glands are less distorted than in the common kind of cancer (Fig. 12). It is remarkable in forming large, yellowish-white masses in the endometrium, and causing great enlargement of the uterus. Cancer of the body of the uterus is unusual before the forty-fifth year; it is most frequent at or subsequent to the menopause. The majority of the cases occur after the fiftieth