URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 292 diabetes may reach as high a figure as 5 grammes in the twenty-four hours, and is not dependent upon the amount of sugar; nor does it run parallel with the nitrogenous excretion. When present in such large amounts its char- acteristic odour is noticed both in the urine and in the breath of the patient. In fevers some degree of acetonuria is an almost constant phenomenon, and it would appear that acetone is more apt to be formed by children than by adults. In pneumonia it is usually present, but it may be stated generally that febrile acetonuria is dependent rather upon the persistent high temperature than upon the nature of the disease to which the febrile disturb- ance is due. Hence this form has no important diagnostic significance. The presence of acetone may sometimes be detected in the urine as such, but it is usually necessary to obtain a more concentrated solution by distillation, and to test the distillate. A considerable proportion of the acetone present comes over in the first portion of the distillate. It is important to note that aceto-acetic acid becomes decomposed in the process of distillation with the formation of acetone, and that when this acid is present a considerably larger amount of acetone may be present in the distillate than in the original urine. The test most usually employed is that of Lieben, which consists in the addition to several c.c. of the urine or distillate of a few drops of liquor potassfe and of a solution of iodine with iodide of potassium. If acetone be present a yellow crystalline precipitate of iodoform is produced, which is seen under the microscope to consist of yellow six-sided tables or stellate crystals. This test is a very delicate one, but it is also yielded, although less readily, by alcohol. Legal's test depends upon the fact that acetone colours a freshly prepared solution of sodium nitro-prusside ruby-red in the presence of sodium-hydroxide, the colour quickly chang- ing to yellow. On the addition of excess of acetic acid a carmine tint appears which, in the course of time, changes to violet and finally to blue. Aceto-acetic acid, or di-acetic acid, CH3.CO. CH^.COOH, is not a normal urinary constituent, but it is met with in various conditions in which an increased excretion of acetone is apt to occur. Thus it appears when healthy persons are put upon an exclusively meat diet, and in fasting. It is also met with in severe cases of febrile dis- orders of various kinds, especially in children. Its chief clinical importance is in connection with grave cases of diabetes. The presence of aceto-acetic acid may be detected by means of the well-known iron re- action of diabetic urine, viz. the appearance of a deep red-brown colour when ferric chloride solution is allowed to fall into the urine drop by drop. If the reaction is obscured by a pre cipitate of phosphates this may be filtered off, and more ferric chloride may be added to the filtrate, which will acquire a claret-red colour. Aceto-acetic acid is decomposed when the urine is kept or boiled, and is also decomposed by distillation with the formation of acetone. yS Oxyhutyricacid, CH3.CH(OH).CH2.COOH, is met with in large amounts in the urine in some severe cases of diabetes mellitus, and its production is favoured by a change from a mixed to a strictly carbohydrate-free diet. In some cases the quantities found in the urine have been very large, amounting in two cases examined by Ktilz to as much as 100 and 223 grammes in the twenty-four hours. More often such smaller quantities as 15-20 grammes are met with. It is to the formation of this acid that the greatly increased excretion of ammonia by some diabetic patients is ascribed, and it is believed to play the chief part in the causation of dia- betic coma. When it is present in the urine aceto-acetic acid is also found. In addition to cases of diabetes, y8 oxybutyric acid has been found in smaller amounts in the urine of patients suffering from scarlatina and measles, and by Klemperer in some cases of coma associated with malignant growths. There is no easy clinical test for the presence of 13 oxybutyric acid, but its presence in diabetic urine is rendered highly probable when, after destruction of the contained sugar by fermenta- tion, the urine exerts a marked Isevorotatory action upon the polarised ray. X. Aromatic Substances in Urine Ethereal Sulphates.—A number of aromatic substances appear in the urine in combination with sulphuric acid in the form of ethereal sulphates. Among these may be mentioned phenol and kresol, pyrocatechin and hydro- quinone, which last appears in cases of carbolic- acid poisoning, and it is the presence of hydro- quinone which gives to carboluric urine the property of darkening when it is exposed to the air. Indoxyl and skatoxyl are also excreted as ethereal sulphates. The amount of the ethereal sulphates may be increased by the administration of aromatic substances, and it is the fact that in carbolic- acid poisoning the phenol present in the urine is combined with sulphuric acid that prevents the obtaining of the colour reaction of phenol with ferric chloride. The above phenol derivatives are also pro- duced within the body by the bacterial de- composition of albuminous substances in the intestine and elsewhere, and hence the amount of ethereal sulphates excreted affords a valuable indication of the extent of the decomposition processes at work. An increase of aromatic sulphates is natur-