142 TUBERCULOSIS looked upon as, comparatively speaking, in- susceptible. Moller of Danzig strongly supports Koch, as he has completely failed to communicate human tuberculosis to cattle. Since Koch thus confirmed the previous con- clusions of American observers, other workers have taken up the subject. In general they have confirmed the opinion that cattle are usually immune if pure cultures of the human bacillus are used, but we must clearly dis- tinguish between experimental tuberculosis and natural tuberculosis. As Adami remarks : " We are realising more and more that the mere presence of virulent bacilli is not sufiicient to set up the disease, that an equally important factor is the condition of the system. Thus, in connection with this very matter of tuberculosis in man, we know that while all are exposed to infection, at most 7 per cent die of the disease ; those in good health resist infection ; that this infection is specially liable to occur when the system has been lowered by another infectious disease, so that an attack of tuberculosis is notably liable to be dated from an attack of la grippe, pneumonia, typhoid, or other acute in- fection." At the Congress, Lister, Nocard, Bang, and Sims Woodhead on the whole agreed that Koch had proved that infection of cattle from man seldom took place, and most authors since then have also written to the same effect; but experi- ments performed by Ravenel, Nocard, de Jong, Arloing, and others would go to show that in- oculation even of pure human bacilli can produce tuberculosis in bovines, and there is a consider- able body of evidence now to prove that if a material such as sputum from man, which causes a mixed infection, is used, tuberculosis can be readily conveyed to these animals. 1. Experiments with pure cultures of human origin. Thomassen inoculated the anterior chamber of the eye of a calf with a pure culture of the human bacillus isolated from a case of joint tuberculosis. It was killed in six weeks, and a pretty well generalised tuberculosis was found. Nocard {La Revue Veterinaire, 1st Jan. 1902) produced a rapidly fatal meningitis by inoculat- ing a small amount of human tubercle bacilli into the pia-arachnoid. Intravenous inoculation produced the disease in a cow, whose normal resistance had been greatly reduced by chronic diarrhoea, but which was free from tuberculosis, as shown by the tuberculin test. De Jong states that seven cattle became tuberculous as a result of the injection of pure cultures of the human bacillus. In only one of these was the disease grave and widespread ; in four the lesions were retrogressive, and in the remaining two they were progressive {La Semaine Medical, 15th Jan. 1902). Arloing reports three recent experiments. With a culture of human origin separated in 1896 he inoculated a young heifer and a calf intravenously. The calf developed a typical eruption of minute tubercles all through the lung. The heifer, after 120 days, was found to be only slightly diseased. With a culture obtained from a case of pleurisy a calf two-and-a-half months old was inoculated intravenously. Death ensued in seventeen days. The lungs alone were involved, showing many young tubercles. The third culture, isolated from a case of pleuro-pericarditis with pulmonary tuberculosis, was inoculated into a young bull intravenously. Death resulted in thirty-two days, the thoracic organs being principally involved. Ravenel's experiments are of special interest. He made use of three cultures isolated from man. The first experiment would go also to prove that bovine tuberculosis can affect man. It is well to quote his exact words, as the same ideas he expresses have occurred to others : " For several years past we have endeavoured to obtain material from cases of tuberculosis in children in which there was evidence of in- fection through the alimentary tract, reasoning that if children contracted tuberculosis through the ingestion of milk from diseased cattle, we would be most apt to find bacilli of the bovine type in these intestinal or mesenteric lesions. We have isolated from the mesenteric gland of a child, in whom the evidence of primary intestinal infection was clear, a culture which has for cattle the most intense pathogenic power." " Two calves inoculated into the jugular vein and peritoneal cavity died in nineteen and twenty-seven days respectively; and a grown cow which was inoculated similarly died in eighteen days. All of these animals exhibited marked symptoms from the day of inoculation. Examination of the lesions, both macroscopical and microscopical, leaves no doubt that the animals succumbed to a pure tuberculosis." " What interpretation is to be given to these remarkable results 1 One of two propositions must be admitted: either we have found a human tubercle bacillus having a pathogenic power for cattle quite as great as any bovine germ, or else we have found in the mesenteric gland of a child the bovine tubercle bacillus. If we accept the law of diagnosis laid down by Koch, namely, the inoculation test, the latter is the true explanation. I myself am strongly of this opinion" {Univ. of Pennsylv. Med. Bull., May 1902). Ravenel separated another culture from the mesenteric glands of a child and found that this was unusually virulent when inoculated into guinea-pigs, rabbits, puppies, a grown dog, and a calf. The result in the calf led him to believe that the usual method of employing