548 WRIST-JOINT INJURIES tration of the fragments, the upper into the lower behind, and the lower into the upper in front. Of these possible forms of impaction he believes the third to be the most common, founding his opinion, apparently, on the obser- vation " that the impacted line is never double," an observation in which Smith agrees. I am able to show that exceptions occur to this rule; further, that comminution is more common than Smith has estimated it to be, and that the paths of the fractures which occur in the lower fragment present a remarkable con- stancy in position. If I rightly interpret these Fig. 2a. appearances, the conclusion must be arrived at, that in comminuted fractures reciprocal impac- tion is the most common form of the accident. In estimating the frequency of comminution of the lower fragment I apply the following test to the collection before me, which has now reached the number of 120—all Colles' fractures, transverse in the direction of the fractures. Some are recent injuries, a couple experimental, the vast majority old united fractures, in all the lower fragments displaced backwards, with more or less distortion of the carpal surfaces by rotation of the fragments backwards, and the most constant character, elevation of the styloid processes. In estimating the frequency of comminution of the lower fragment I accept as proof the extension of fracture through the articular cartilage of the carpal surfaces. These fractures are, of course, evident in recent specimens taken from patients who have died of other injuries. The traces of the fractures in the carpal surfaces are no less evident in united fractures, for all the world knows that the fractures of articular cartilage remain as permanent marks on the surfaces. Only one change in a few specimens can mask them—the supervention of chronic rheumatic arthritis in the articulation. Applying this test it is cer- tain that I omit specimens which are examples of impaction, but in which the lower fragment has not been split through. In tracing these lines in united specimens a remarkable constancy in their course is appreciable, a constancy which suggests at once a constancy in their cause. In twelve specimens the minimum fracturing of the carpal surface occurs (Fig. 5). A line of fracture passes in these through the articu- lar cartilage of the ulnar facet, and turning into the carpal articular surface passes to its dorsal margin, so the posterior angle of the carpal surface next to the ulnar articular surface was broken off (Fig. 5, A, B). In six specimens the line of fracture, similar to that in the preceding twelve, exists, but there is added to it a line extending along the carpal surface further outwards in some, forming what has been called Bar- ton's fracture (Fig. 5, C, D). In twenty-two specimens the lines seen in the two preceding groups are present, but they branch forward towards the anterior margin of the carpal surface (Fig. 5, E). In four of the five recent fractures obtained from cases fatal by other injuries, the same pattern of fracturing is seen; these fractures, par ecrase- ment, are then only excessive extensions of the impacted fracture. In one specimen these frac- tures are associated with dislocation of the lower extremity of the ulna. Of fractures which show no trace of lesion of the carpal articular surface of the radius there are seventy. Some of these, no doubt, pre- sented some degree of impaction, but the majority were free from the complication. There appears, then, sufficient ground for the assertion that the mode of comminution is con- stant, and that it results from the impaction of the upper into the lower fragment, taking effect first and chiefly on the side of the frag- ment next the ulna.