321 UTERUS, MALFORMATIONS OF THE vagina and cervix, and the labia majora become fuller and more rounded. From birth to puberty the body of the uteriis gradually enlarges till it becomes larger than the cervix, and the vulva increases in size. It would take us beyond the scope of our subject to trace in detail the development of the genital organs in the male; but it is im- portant to remember that they arise from the same primitive structures as are found in the female; and this fact explains the phenomena of pseudo-hermaphrodism. The relation of the adult organs in the male and female, and their common derivation from the same foetal struc- tures, are indicated in the following table, the parts shown in italics being rudimentary or vestigial in the adult:— urethra comes to lie nearer the anterior rectal wall than usual. Absence of the uterus is said to occur even when a vagina is present; but this is very doubtful, as some trace of the uterus, however small, is usually found on dissection. Clinically it is very difficult to determine whether the uterus is absent or not. The same remarks apply to absence of one or both of the ovaries and tubes. Absence of the anterior or posterior wall of the urethra may occur, producing the conditions known respectively as epispadias and hypo- spadias. (5) Partial Arrest of Development, or Under- development.— Under-development of the whole genital organs is not very infrequent; and all A Table of Homologous Parts in the Male and Female. Adult Male. Body of testis Paradidymis Vasa efFerentia j Vas deferens ::: ^ Sinus pocularis { Corpora cavernosa (penis) Corpus spongiosum (penis) ( Prostatic urethra Membranous urethra Folds at entrance to sinus pocularis Cowper's glands Scrotum Foetal Structures. Genital gland Wolffian body Wolffian duct Miillerian duct ) Genital eminence and folds prolonged backwards- from it Urogenital sinus Outer portion of genital folds Adult Female. Obphoron j Paroophoron ( Parovarium {epoophoron) Duct of Gartner I Fallopian tube < Uterus I Vagina Corpora cavernosa (clitoridis) Glans clitoridis and vestibular bulbs. Urethra Vestibule Hymen Bartholin's glands Labia majora B. Malformations.—From a consideration of the facts of development, as we have briefly outlined them, it will be readily understood that malformations may occur in three ways:— I. Arrest of development, partial or total, of individual portions. II. Persistence of septa, longitudinal or trans- verse, which should normally disappear. III. Excess of development of individual portions. We shall describe the malformations of the genital organs in the order indicated. I. Arrest of Development. (a) Total Arrest, or Suppression.—Absence of the genital organs is found only in the case of gross monstrosities, and is therefore very rare. Absence of the vulva is also a very rare con- dition. The labia minora or majora may be absent; but even then some trace of the clitoris is nearly always found. The internal organs in such cases are generally under-developed. Absence of the vagina sometimes occurs. The interval between cervix and vulva is then occu- pied by a fibrous thickening or cord-like band, which is all that remains of the vagina. The vol. X grades are found, corresponding with arrest of growth at various stages from birth to puberty. Under-development of the Vulva.—-Individual portions may be concerned, such as the clitoris, labia minora, or labia majora. In the con- dition known as exstrophy of the bladder, in which the abdominal wall from the umbilicus to the urogenital sinus {i to b. Fig. 1, i.) fails to unite, the clitoris is usually bifid and rudimentary, and the labia minora are also small. Or the whole vulva may be small and infantile. Partial Absence of the Vagina.—The lower or middle part of the vagina is sometimes absent, whilst the upper portion is patent. The deficient part is represented by a fibrous cord. This condition is referred to more fully later in dis- cussing atresia of the genital passages. Under-development of the Uterus.—This may be present in one of two degrees:— Rudimentary Uterus.—The uterus may be re- presented only by a little knob or button sur- mounting the vagina; or the cervix may be fairly well marked, whilst the body of the uterus is very narrow, and the Fallopian tubes meet at the fundus. Menstruation is absent; and the 21