116 TROPICS, THE UNCLASSED FEVEKS OF THE progressive debility, intercurrent attacks of fever, enlargement of the spleen and liver, darkening of the complexion, and dropsy. Ex- cept during the intercurrent attacks of fever, the temperature is markedly subnormal, as in other antemias. Two views are taken of its essential nature. Giles, finding the ova of the ankylostoma duodenalis present in the faeces of practically every case he examined, regarded kala-azar as essentially an ankylostomiasis, and the concomitant signs of malaria as accidental and only constant because of the highly malari- ous surroundings of those affected. Rogers and Ross take the opposite view, and look on the malarial infection as essential, and the ankylos- tomiasis as accidental. They found the malarial parasite present in the blood in all early cases, and that at that period the disease was undis- tinguishable from ordinary malaria, except, according to Rogere, that the parasite was of unusual virulence. There is no doubt that the ankylostoma is exceedingly prevalent in other parts of India where kala-azar is unknown ; but there are few disti'icts which combine so great a prevalence of this parasite with so virulent a form of malaria as exists in the parts of Assam decimated by kala-azar, and pending further study of this disease it may with fair reason be attributed to this combination. This is the view expressed by Giles himself {B.M.J., 26th March 1893). The best results of treatment are obtained by the early use of quinine and thymol. Hcfmoglohinuric Fever.—This is the " Black- water fever" of tropical Africa. It has also been reported in the hotter parts of Amei'ica, the West India Islands, the Eastern Archipelago, in the south of Japan, in Assam, and in other districts of India. It is also met with in southern Europe, Greece, Italy, and Sardinia, in Algeria, and in the Koomati Poort district of South Africa. It is certainly not prevalent generally in India, and it is by no means clear from the reports received that the observers have always been careful to distinguish between hsemoglobinuria and haematuria. It is hardly possible that a fever with so marked peculiarities could escape notice, and the returns of the large hospitals of India are silent with regard to it. It may be that a recent introduction of the infective germ has taken place, just as is believed by many to have occurred in tropical Africa itself. It is characterised by pyrexia, which is ushered in by rigor, bilious vomiting, with icterus, hsemoglobinuria, and diminution in the quantity of urine. It is extremely fatal, the deatlas being in the proportion of 75 per cent of attacks. The pathognomonic symptom is strongly sug- gestive that the infective organism is related to the Pirosoma bigeminum of Texas cattle fever, in which hfemoglobinuria is also the constant symptom, but as yet all attempts to detect this or any other specific organism in man have failed. {See also " Blackwater Fever," vol. i. p. 376). Its association with malaria is undoubted. All the endemic areas in which it is met with are noted for malaria of a severe and virulent type. This is true of those districts of India where it has been reported, and also of Koomati i Poort, the last addition to the list. It usually I occurs in individuals who, being residents in I these areas, have had several previous attacks ' of ordinary malarial fever, and it is unusual in the first year of residence, being most frequent in the third year. It may, however, occur without any previous attack of malaria : of this many instances have now been recorded. At the beginning of the attack parasites undistinguish- able from those of a mixed malarial infection will be found in the blood, belonging generally, but not necessarily, to the malignant, crescent- forming type. On the appearance of haemo- globin in the urine these generally disappear I from the blood, although quinine may not have i been given, and this may terminate a chronic i malarial infection. j Two explanations would seem to be possible of these phenomena. First, that the occuiTence of hfemoglobinuria is due to the addition of a distinct specific infection, of less frequency than, and inimical to, the malarial parasite, destroy- ing it along with its containing red-blood cor- puscles ; or, secondly, it may be due to a special virulence of the toxin formed by the malarial ; parasites, which not only destroys the corpuscles which they inhabit, but is also fatal to their own existence. In the present state of our knowledge the latter is the more likely hypo- i thesis, which would, however, be immediately ; set aside by the discovery of a specific infective organism. , Koch's idea that the cause of the haemoglobin- i uria is the quinine given to cure the malarial : infection cannot be entertained; in the first place, because it may occur, with a fatal result, I in cases in which the drug has not been given, and in the second place, because quinine may , be given, and is constantly given in heroic doses, ' in districts where haemoglobinuric fever is not endemic without its ever inducing haemoglobin- uria. In my own experience in Lower Bengal, sixty, and even ninety grains of quinine in twenty-four hours was no unusual dosage in malarial attacks, and I only saw the occurrence of haemoglobinuria in one instance, which was one in which quinine was not being pushed. Natives of an endemic area seem to acquire a relative immunity from haemoglobinuric fever which is not enjoyed by immigrants of the same race. The teaching of Koch has led some to sus- pend the use of quinine on the occurrence of haemoglobinuria; others regard it as an indica- tion for increased doses. The treatment, how-