499 VITREOUS HUMOUR, DISEASES OF rhagic effusions into it, by changes in the ciliary body checking its nutrient supply, and by elongation of the eyeball in high myopia. If the network permeating it becomes broken up it is liquefied, and instead of having the usual viscid character, it is thin and watery like the aqueous humour. It may also shrink and con- tract away from the structures surrounding it, fluid collecting between them and its hyaloid membrane. This condition is termed detach- ment of the vitreous; posterior detachment when it is separated from the retina, and antero- lateral detachment when it is separated from the suspensory ligament of the lens. Liquefaction of the vitreous or synchisis can most certainly be detected clinically when associated, as it commonly is, with opacities, the result of past exudate or hsemorrhage into it. These opacities, when the humour is fluid, float rapidly about on movements of the eye. Opacities in the vitreous can be differentiated from opacities in the lens by continuing to move when the eye has come to rest, and by moving in the opposite direction to the eye; when the eye turns up they move down. The poor support which fluid vitreous ofl'ers to the posterior surface of the lens will some- times allow the lens and iris to tremble on movement of the eye. Tremulousness of the lens and iris is, however, by no means a certain sign that the vitreous is fluid, it may result from defects in the suspensory ligament, and it is not always present when the vitreous is in this condition. The tension in eyes with fliiid vitreous may be normal, very often it is diminished, and when this is the case the eye is very liable, subse- quently, to have detachment of the retina or to shrink. During operations on the eye the surgeon sometimes becomes painfully aware of the lique- fying change which the vitreous has undergone by seeing it ooze away from the wound he has made as a very pale yellow-tinted fluid. In rare cases where the vitreous is fluid it becomes filled with cholesterine crystals; the appearances then seen ophthalmoscopically are of a most beautiful and striking character. The crystals appear as a number of bright golden particles which float about and sparkle with every movement of the eye. The condition, which is spoken of as sparkling synchisis, is mostly met with in elderly people, and though associated in some cases with old choroido- retinitis, it may be present without any defect of vision. Inflammatory Infiltration.—The vitreous humour being a non-vascular structure and containing only a very few cellular elements, can but rarely, if ever, be the seat of a true primary inflammation. The conditions which are commonly spoken of as hyalitis are the result of effusion of inflammatory products into the vitreous from the ciliary body or retina, in cyclitis, retinitis, or choroido-retinitis. These effusions differ in character in different cases, and may be described as either serous, plastic, or purulent. Clinically they give rise to opacity in the vitreous, cause disturbance of vision, and are associated with symptoms of inflammation of the structure from which they are derived, and which are described elsewhere. The appearance of the vitreous seen ophthal- moscopically varies with the character of the effusion. When serous, webs and irregular- shaped strands of opacity may be seen, or there may be a general diffuse dust-like haze obscur- ing all the details of the fundus, and through which the light reflex from the optic disc appears like a full moon in a fog. Such a con- dition is commonly met with in syphilitic retinitis, whilst either condition may be seen in serous cyclitis or in association with patches of choroido-retinitis. On subsidence of the active inflammation which gives rise to the serous exudate the opacities tend to clear up and the vision improves. Some liquefaction of the vitreous and floating opacities frequently remain. When the effusion into the vitreous is of a more cellular and plastic character, the opacity from the first is more dense and of a yellowish colour. Later it tends to develop into fibrous tissue, by the contraction of which the retina frequently becomes detached, and the root of the iris may be drawn back into the circum- lental space so as to deepen the anterior chamber at its periphery. This is the form of effusion which is met with in connection with the cyclitis and retinitis which occur during epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis, and also in connection with the meningitis in children, the result of ear disease or syphilis. The yellow reflex which it gives rise to from behind the lens simulates that pro- duced by glioma of the retina, for which indeed the condition has several times been mistaken; it is hence often spoken of as pseudo-glioma, under which name it is more fully dealt with elsewhere. As the result of septic infection of the eye, either through wounds or pysemic emboli, septic pus may be effused into the vitreous; when this happens suppurative panophthalmitis, with intense injection, much swelling of surrounding structures, and rapid destruction of the eyeball ensues. Treatment.—The treatment of inflammatory exudation into the vitreous consists in the administration of such drugs as iodide of potassium and mercury with the object of promoting absorption. In the recent serous cases they certainly seem to do good ; their use often has to be continued for some months. In cases of some standing the administration of saline mineral waters may prove beneficial.