VAGINA, DISORDERS OF THE 407 slowly, and the patient should lie down during its continuance and for at least ten minutes afterwards. Danger arises from the employ- ment of too great pressure, especially at the time of menstruation. Water alone should never be employed, as it appears to promote the growth of putrefactive germs in the vagina : and generally all non-astringent substances are objectionable, as they tend to macerate the surface epithelium. Sometimes, however, especially in the early stages of acute vaginitis, emollient and sedative douches are of service ; for this purpose gruel or linseed-tea, or water with the addition of lead lotion, or of borax and soda, may be used. In sub-acute or chronic cases antiseptics or astringents are more useful, and for these purposes there is a wide choice, so that only a few of the more serviceable medica- ments can be mentioned here. As antiseptics, chlorine water, permanganate of potash, boracic acid, corrosive sublimate, creolin, and lysol are most in use; and among astringents which are at the same time antiseptic, the sulphates of copper, zinc, and iron, nitrate of silver, the acetates of lead, zinc, or aluminium, oxycyanate of mercury, tannin, and alum. Fluids may also be applied by means of what is known as the " local bath of the vagina." A cylindrical speculum is introduced into the vagina and filled with solution of sulphate of copper (2 to 5 per cent), nitrate of silver (5 per cent), pyroligneous acid, or solution of pro- targol; as the speculum is moved about and withdrawn the solution comes closely into con- tact with every part of the surface of the mucous membrane. Stronger fluids may be pencilled on to the surface or to some part of the surface with a brush; in this way pure alcohol, tincture of iodine, or strong alum solu- tion may be employed; in syphilitic affections a thick paint made of calomel, salt, and water, and painted over the surface, is specific. The tampon treatment is best carried out by the medical attendant, who through a Sims' speculum places pledgets of wool first in a circle round the cervix and then so as to fill the whole vagina. In this way direct pressure is obtained on the walls, in addition to the action of any drug that may be chosen. As a vehicle for the applications, glycerine is best; in it may be dissolved alum, boric acid, ichthyol, iodine, or potassium iodide, tannin, and iodoform. Instead of the wool tampon, a gauze strip saturated with some of the above-mentioned solutions is some- times introduced into the vagina. Applications of this kind require to be renewed every two to four days. Among the dry methods of treatment may be mentioned the use of medicated pessaries made with glycerine and gelatine, or with gum arable ; the use of the "powder bottle," a strip of gauze 8 inches by 4 inches in which is wrapped up a drachm of tannin and boracic acid or tannin and iodoform, of alum sugar 1 in 20, airol, or other powder; the insufflation of powders; or the introduction, on wool tampons or by means of a syringe, of ointments made of vaseline or lanolin to which astringents may be added, such as nitrate of silver, boracic acid, ichthyol, or white precipitate ointment. The ointment method is specially indicated where the entrance of the vagina is narrow, and in young children. The methods of dry treatment are especially useful in out-patient practice. In pregnancy no strong astringents should be employed in the treatment of vaginitis, but where necessary warm weak solutions of borax and soda, of boracic acid, or of permanganate of potash may be employed with safety. 5. Para-vaginitis.—Inflammation of the con- nective tissue surrounding the vagina is most frequently caused by wounds, especially small ones, occurring in labour and becoming infected. Operations carried out with insufficient anti- septic precautions, neglected pessaries, and in- strumental attempts at criminal abortion may also give rise to the affection. Occasionally in certain diseases, such as typhoid fever and pneu- monia, a purulent inflammation undermining large parts or the whole of the vaginal wall has occurred (phlegmonous dissecting para-vaginitis). The intimate causation of this affection is still obscure, and it is possible that it may not un- frequently run its course in young people with typhoid fever, variola, scarlet fever, and possibly measles, without attention being called to the symptoms. Diff"use or circumscribed collections of pus may make their way high up along the con- nective tissue surrounding the vagina and even into the bases of the broad ligaments. Portions or the whole of the vaginal wall may be cast off" as sloughs. Infection may be conveyed by the lymphatic vessels to the pelvic glands and even to the peritoneum. When the patient recovers, cicatrisation may lead to varying degrees of stenosis or to complete occlusion of the vagina, with its sequelae. The symptoms may be overshadowed by a grave general disease. They consist in fever and local pain, with purulent and bloody dis- charges, and the separation of sloughs. Treatment. — The separation of gangrenous portions of the vaginal wall should be promoted by warm antiseptic applications, and after the separation of the sloughs efforts should be made to prevent the contraction of the resulting scar tissue. Vaginismus is the term applied by Marion Sims to certain spasmodic conditions of the pelvic floor which he was the first adequately to describe. In patients suffering from the affection any attempt at sexual intercourse calls forth violent contraction of the muscles sur- rounding the vagina, and if the efforts are persisted in the woman frequently cries out