593 YELLOW FEVER Chastang, a tug vessel with five hands, lying close to the leeward of the Anne-Marie, was infected, the first case appearing on the 1st of August. All five were attacked in succession and all died. Four other vessels to the leeward, two of which were not in direct contact with the Anne-Marie, also furnislied fatal cases. Vessels to the windward, although equally close to the focus of infection, escaped. A shoemaker, who is said to have shared his bed with one of the labourers, was attacked and died; and two women who, it was believed, had been in the company of the sailors, and had obtained some articles of dress from the vessel, were likewise seized with yellow fever, but the precise mode in which they were infected was not satis- factorily ascertained. There were, in all, 44 cases and 26 deaths. The cessation of the disease on board during the latter part of the voyage while the vessel, as was afterwards proved, was so severely infected, is no less remarkable because it is what is observed in the majority of these instances. The fact that the second officer, who had escaped during the voyage, fell a victim while superintending the discharge of the cargo, proves that the arrest of the disease on board was not the result of all the susceptible having been attacked. The two incidents, however, of greatest etiological significance in this history are the infection of the stonecutter and that of Dr. Chaillon. The case of the stonecutter proves conclusively that the virus or its bearer is transportable for a distance of at least 600 feet by the wind, and it is certainly as conceiv- able that a mosquito from the vessel communi- cated the disease in this case as that an infective dose of a bacillary virus should have been diffused through the atmosphere for such a distance. Dr. Chaillon must have contracted the infection in one of three ways: {a) By the agency of a mosquito contaminated on the spot by one of the patients, but for this the time was insufficient if reliance can be placed on recent observations; (6) By an infected insect or a virus transported from the vessel in the clothing or effects of the sick, and thus the case would be one of transmission by clothing; (c) Directly from one of the patients whom he was attending. This last mode is that which naturally suggested itself to those who made the inquiry, and they looked upon it as all the more probable from the circumstance that the doctor was short-sighted, and had to come into very close proximity to the patient he was examining. He was also very assiduous in his attendance on the sick, and personally and perseveringly applied frictions to one of his patients. There is no great difficulty in admit- ting the possibility of an infected mosquito, fragile as it is, being carried from the ship in the clothing of a patient; but this would be, after all, of the nature of an accident, and it VOL. X would be somewhat surprising if this mode of transport should have happened at the same time in the case of the shoemaker and the two women, all of whom contracted the disease without having had any direct communication with the infected ship. Topographical and Altitudinal Relations.— Yellow fever, as we have seen, is distinctly a disease of river and seaports—a peculiarity, as Hirsch observes, " without analogy in the history of other infective diseases." Instances of yellow fever breaking out in inland towns have become more numerous since railways have rendered communication with infected ports more rapid. These inland outbreaks have never, however, exhibited great spreading power, nor has the disease become endemic in localities remote from the sea. It has never become diffused in rural districts, which are those most liable to malaria. Although generally restricted to localities near the sea-level, yellow fever has occasionally broken out at higher elevations—Madrid (2000 feet), Cordova in Mexico and Sao Paulo in Brazil (2500 feet), and at Newcastle in Jamaica (4000 feet), above the sea-level. The physical and geological characters of the soil have no influence on the prevalence of yellow fever. Unlike malaria it has no prefer- ence for marshy localities. When the French army was encamped near the marsh of Tejeria (four leagues from Vera Cruz, where the disease was decimating the troops) the soldiers suffered terribly from malaria, but were almost exempt from yellow fever. It has often been observed to prevail with special severity where extensive excavations have been in progress. Meteorological Relations. —• In the regions where yellow fever is endemic its wide diff'usion is commonly limited to the warm season. In higher latitudes, epidemics uniformly begin in summer or autumn, decline as the temperature falls, and are, in most instances, extinguished when the thermometer reaches freezing-point. The disease, however, will maintain itself for a time at a much lower temperature than that necessary to set it agoing. The influence of rainfall and humidity is less evident, but it is to be remarked that in all its endemic centres yellow fever attains its maximum in the rainy season. Conditions affecting Susceptibility; Race.— Apart from acclimatisation the negro race exhibits a marked resistance to the infection. The Soudanese troops, 400 in number, forming part of the French expedition to Mexico, and stationed in towns where yellow fever was working havoc among the French and Mexicans, remained completely exempt. This resistance to the infection could not be ascribed to an immunity acquired by their having already had the disease, as these negroes came from a region where yellow fever is unknown. In some epi- demics the negro population, acclimatised for 38