UNCONSCIOUSNESS 223 his conclusions are:—(1) That the highest (chiefly) motor centres, parts in front of the so- called motor region, make up the physical basis of consciousness; and (2) that just as consciousness represents, or is, the whole person psychical, so its anatomical basis (highest centres) represents the whole person psychical, represents impres- sions and movements of all parts of his body ; in old-fashioned language, the highest centres are potentially the whole organism. States of consciousness attend survivals of the fittest states of centres representing the whole organism. Meynert endeavovired to prove a logical sequence in the evolution of association, and Waller^ tried to demonstrate the essential similarity of neural processes concomitant with the whole range of subjective phenomena, from the simplest sensation to the most complex judgment. Hitherto the logical mode of symbo- lising neural processes has merely r-esolved itself into a disquisition upon the ordinary rules of the syllogism with, in addition, the conception that the physical organism in some way or other subserves the phenomena of sensation. It must suffice here to state that the various presentations and representations in conscious- ness are correlative states to physiological activities. Every presentation and representa- tion is an objective content of consciousness. The sum total of the complex physiological activities become manifested as objective con- tents of consciousness ; the ego does not view the activities themselves, it merely becomes cognisant of their mental correlative as objective states. The writer has elsewhere said : ^—" The study of the nervous mechanism has disclosed to us that just as our bodies are associated with the activities of the cosmical system, so our organic nervous structures are associated with the objective phenomena of consciousness. Further, the details of physiology and anatomy would appear to point to the fact that some ultimate and intra-bodily activity is essential to, and possibly conditions every diversification of the sensory and other kinds of experience. Beyond this we cannot go. The mei-e experi- ence of sensory consciousness in itself affords no scope for ratiocination. In other words, our cerebro-spinal sj'stem is capable of receiving and of propagating specific agitations, and also of exerting, in some way or other, a determinate modification of activity in its substance, but we do not in the least degree understand the modus operandi whereby we experience the current vicissitudes of consciousness. The question as to whether individual parts of mental operations are associated with definite parts of the cortex has, in the case of aphasia and allied conditions, assumed fairly definite proportions ; but at the best we nmst remember that the clinical manifestations in these cases ' Waller, Brain, 1892, p. 355. ^ Hyslop, Alental Physiology, p. 1.33. may furnish us simply and solely with evidences that the physical paths of conduction, or the organic substrata, are not performing their physical functions satisfactorily. When we attempt to deal with complex mental activities, we cannot imagine any specific functions in the nervous elements which would serve as physical counterparts, and the presence of a chaotic mass of tracts, cells, and other nervous elements, viewed either singly or in combination, do not suggest any explanation of the very simplest psychical process. The processes of consciousness are manifestly dependent upon the physical organisation of the nervous system, and the cerebral cortex appears to have a more direct and intimate relation with " knowledge " than is manifested by other regions of the cerebro-spinal system. Professor James has asked the question : " Is consciousness which accompanies the activity of the cortex the only consciousness that man has 1 or are his lower centres conscious as well 1" He conceives that the lower centres themselves may possibly have a " split-off"" consciousness of their own similarly ejective to the cortex conscious- ness. This question may be answered by saying that the cortex cerebri is the sole organ of con- sciousness in man, and if there be any conscious- ness pertaining to the lower centres it is a consciousness of which the self knows nothing. But the possibility of consciousness pertaining to any of the lower centres is not to be esti- mated by the complexity or fitness of the re- active manifestations as viewed objectively, otherwise we are free to assume the existence of consciousness in still lower centres of the cerebro-spinal system; for, as is known to be the case, such lower centres are capable of effective reaction apart from the cerebral in- fluence. The facts, as presented to us by a study of the evolution of the central nervous system, would lead us to the conception that our physical organism is eminently adapted to react to stimuli derived from environment; and of our physical organism the central nervous system is the more immediate means of effect- ing such reaction; it is through this nervous system that the outside world is perceived subsequently by the mind. Beyond this we cannot go. A satisfactory reply, as to whether the activities of the lower or subcortical struc- tures are accompanied by subjective expressions in consciousness, can only be given when we have eliminated the cortex in its entirety from its substructures. At this point we may ask. Does consciousness exist only when the cortex cerebri is function- ally active as a whole? or may consciousness exist in conjunction with activities occurring in one or several regions, while other regions are inactive as concomitants of mental phenomena 1 the answer is readily conceivable, and it is fair to assume that full knowledge is dependent