TOPO 48 neurosis (a local neurosis), and tcypophobia (morbid fear of places). Torcular Herophili.—The point of meeting (literally, the press or cellar of Hero- philus) of the great venous sinuses on the inner aspect of the occipital bone. Tormillci.—Griping or colicky pains in the intestines, or in the uterus after delivery {post-pai-tum tormina), or of the bladder in stran- gury {tormina urina?). Torpor.—Sluggishness, deficient sensation, mental lack of response; torpefactio universalis is torpidity of the whole body. See Insanity, Natube and Symptoms {Melancholic Stupor, etc.). TorO|Ua.y. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {English). Torricellian Vacuum. See Physi- ology, Blood and Lymph {Collection of the Gases of the Blood). Torsion.—Twisting or rotation, e.g. the twisting of an artery to stop haemorrhage, the twisted character of the umbilical cord, the occasional twisting of the pedicle of a tumour (such as an ovarian cyst or uterine fibroid) or of the spermatic cord. See Hemorrhage {Local Treatment); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Torsion or Axial Rotation of Spermatic Cord); etc. Torticollis. See Wry-Neck; Hysteria {Contractures); Rheumatism in Children {Ar- thritis). Torula. A name given to different varieties of fungi {blastomycetes), some of which {e.g. the Torula cerevisice) cause alcoholic fermentation. See Micro-organisms {Blastomycetes or Yeasts). Torus.—An elevation, prominence, or pro- tuberance ; also, the tuber cinej-cum of the brain. Total Aphasia. See Aphasia {Clinical Features, Total). Total Necrosis.—A phase in the struc- tural degeneration of the red blood corpuscles occurring in normal blood as a result of long exposure to the air (three to four hours), and in pathological blood in which the globulicidal powers of the plasma are increased {e.g. severe anaemias); corrugations appear in the stroma of the erythrocyte, amoeboid movements are seen, decoloration follows, the corpuscle becomes a poikilocyte, and finally fragmentation (schisto- cytosis) occurs. Touch. See Brain, Physiology of {Seti- sory Centres, Touch) ; Children, Development OF {Special Senses, Serisibility to Touch); Mind, Education of the {Education of the Special Senses); Physiology, Cerebrum {Touch Centre). Touch Corpuscles. &e Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism {Tactile Sense, Corpuscles); Skin, Anatomy and Physiology {Nerves, Touch, Cells of Merkel, etc.). Tourette's Disease. See Gilles de LA Tourette's Disease. Tourniquet.—An instrument for arrest- ing hfemorrhage by compressing the whole limb or one particular artery in it; it is usually a screw and a pad held in position by a circular strap, but a handkerchief and a piece of wood or an indiarubber band (Esmarch's tourniquet) may be employed in emergencies. See Hemor- rhage {Local Treatment). Tow.—Flax or hemp refuse ; used to ab- sorb discharges, as in cancer cases, e.g. cancer of the cervix uteri; oakum or marine lint. Toxsemia.—Blood poisoning or the presence of toxic substances in the blood. See Headache {Causes, Toxwmia); Heart, Myo- cardium and Endocardium {General Pathology, Exciting Causes, Chemical); Pregnancy, Physi- ology {General Changes, Toxaemia of Pregnancy); Scurvy in Adults (Etiology). ToxalbuminS.—Poisonous proteid sub- stances due to chemical changes in micro-organ- isms, and causing some at least of the pheno- mena of diseases ascribed to microbes. See Immunity {Toxic Filtrates of Bacterial Cultures). Toxal bu moses. See Toxicology {Ani- mal Foods causing Poisoning). Toxic.—Belonging to or due to poisons, e.g. toxic amblyopia in which tobacco is the poison. See Angina Pectoris (Varieties, Toxic); Hemoglobinuria {Toxic); Retina and Optic Nerve {Retinitis of Toxic Origin); Senile In- sanity {Pathogenesis). Toxicity.—The toxic quality of anything, e.g. urine, blood, etc., poisonousness. ToxiCOg'en ic.—Poison-producing. See Micro-organisms {Toxicogenic Bacteria). Toxicologry. Definition ...... 49 Diagnosis of Poisoning ... 50 Symptoms of Corrosive and Irritant Poisoning 50 General Treatment . . . .51 Post-MoRTEM Appearances . . .51 Inorganic Poisons .... 52 A. Corrosives 1. Mineral Acids—Sulphuric Acid, Nitric Acid, Hydrochloric Acid, Acetic and Tartaric Acid, Oxalic Acid, Potassium Binoxalate, Carbolic Acid . . 52 2. Alkalies—Potash, Soda, Ammonia . 54