THYROID GLAND, MEDICAL SECTIOIS 13 is a lack of power of continuous application to any regular occupation. Though cheerful as a rule, they are liable to fits of depression with crying. In some cases these symptonas become greatly exaggerated and result in actual insanity, which usually takes the form of mania or melancholia. Tremor. — Tremor is a common symptom which is nearly always present at one time or another during the course of exophthalmic goitre. It is most easily observed when the patient extends the arms and with the palms directed downwards and the fingers spread out. It varies greatly in degree in different cases, and in the same case at different times. When very slight, it may be felt more easily than seen by laying the fingers lightly on the back of the patient's extended hand. This symptom some- times comes on early, but as a rule is not noticed until after the other symptoms already described have attracted attention. The whole limb is affected, but especially the flexors and extensors of the wrists, so that the tremor affects the hand as a whole, and not the fingers separately. The tremor also may affect the legs, and even the head and neck. The rhythm is rapid and regular, each complete movement occupying about one-eighth of a second. The range of movement is small, but variable. Fine volun- tary movements, such as writing, may be impeded, but not prevented by the tremor in some cases. Any extended or unusual effort increases the tremor, which is least marked when the patient is lying down at rest. Other nervous symptoms in addition to those already described have been observed. A sudden giving way of the legs, so that the patient falls to the ground, occurs in some cases. Painful nocturnal cramps of the feet and legs, and even of the hands, have been described by Dr. Hector Mackenzie. Inability to walk, while the legs can be moved when the patient lies down (astasia-abasia), has been recorded by Dr. Maude. The Skin.—Pigmentation. — In many cases there is more or less pigmentation of the skin. This is most marked in those situations in which the skin naturally contains most pigment, and may therefore be similar in distribution to the pigmentation in the earlier stages of Addison's disease. The eyelids and the neck are common situations, as are also the axillae, the areolae of the nipples, and the flexor surface of the joints. The face may be uniformly coloured, or there may be brown patches on the cheeks. Pressure, such as that caused by the garter, may also determine a localised increase of pigmentation. In one of my patients all the skin of the face, neck, hands, and fore-arms was pigmented, so that she looked as if she had been working in the sun with her sleeves rolled up to the elbow. The colour of the skin may vary from a yellowish tint to brown, but does not reach the dark brown which is seen in an advanced case of Addison's disease. The mucous membrane of the mouth is not pigmented. Perspiration.—The skin generally feels warm and moist, and the skin of the face may look rather greasy. In addition to this, profuse local or general sweats and hot flushes are not uncommon, especially in the more acute cases. They may last for an hour or so, and are some- times repeated two or three times in the day. Profuse general perspiration often accompanies the paroxysmal attacks of palpitation already mentioned. Patients often complain of feeling- hot, and seem to feel cold very little. As a result, they not infrequently go about in quite thin clothing in cold weather. They are not liable to catch cold ; in fact, in some of my cases this liability appears to have diminished with the onset of exophthalmic goitre. One of my patients, who formerly suffered a good deal from chilblains, told me that they had not re- turned since the symptoms of exophthalmic goitre developed. In a considerable number of cases the electri- cal resistance of the skin has been found to be diminished. This is probably a direct result of the moist condition of the skin, which naturally acts as a better conductor when moist than when dry, and is not peculiar to Graves' disease. Temporary oedematous swellings of the sub- cutaneous tissues sometimes appear in various parts of the body. Regular oedema of the lower extremities may occur, but it is to be regarded as a complication secondary to ansemia or cardiac failure. Hair, Nails, Teeth.—Loss of hair frequently occurs in all parts of the body. The head may become completely bald, as in one of my cases in which the eyebrows and eyelashes had com- pletely, and the pubic hair had partly, dis- appeared, and did not return while she was under observation. In another case the hair was also lost during the earlier part of the ill- ness, but grew again later on when the other symptoms improved. The nails in some cases are thin and brittle, or they may be deeply grooved. Caries of the teeth is not uncommon. Respiratory System.—The frequency of re spiration is increased in a good many cases. In some it is the result of anaemia or of cardiac weakness. It may, however, occur quite in- dependently of either of these causes. The respirations may be as frequent as 30 or 38 in a minute. In one case which I saw with Dr. Messer of Lemington this symptom was the earliest to attract attention, and as it followed an attack of influenza it suggested the onset of some pulmonary complication such as pneu- monia. The lungs, however, remained quite healthy, and other symptoms of exophthalmic goitre soon followed. Paroxysmal attacks of coughing occur in some cases, as do also attacks