80 TOXONE possessing toxic powers, although in a less degree than a toxine. ToXOphore.—The atomic group in a toxine molecule which produces the poisonous effect upon any cell with which it may unite; the union is effected by means of the other atomic group {ha2:>tophore), which anchors the toxophore to one of the receptors of the cell. See Immunity, Recent Views on. Toynbee's Experiment.—The pro- duction of rarefaction of the air in the middle ear by swallowing with the mouth and nose closed. Tra,becula,.—A band, usually fibrous in nature, which extends from the capsule of an organ into the interior of the same, and acts as a supporting structure. See Physiology, Tissues {Bone, Development and Structure). Trabs Cerebri.—The corpus callosum of the brain. See Physiology, Cerebrum (Corp^is Callosum). Trachea, Affections of tiie. Malformations . . . . . .80 Inflammations ..... 80 Ulceration . . . . . .81 Perforation . . . . . .81 Tumours ...... 81 Tracheal Obstruction . . . .81 Tracheal Rupture . . . .81 Foreign Bodies ..... 82 Tracheotomy. . . . . .82 See also Aneurysm (JVeck, Symptoms, Tr-acheal Tugging); Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm of (Symptoms, Respiratory, Deviation of Trachea); Asphyxia (Definition, Phenomena, Causes, etc.); Bronchi, Bronchial Glands (Pressure on Trachea); Bronchi, Bronchitis (Treatment, Intratracheal Injections); Cautery (Bed Heat in Tracheotomy); Diphtheria (Intubation and Tracheotomy); Heart, Myocardium and Endo- cardium (Physical Examination of Heart, Tracheal Tugging) ; Larynx, Examination of (Examination of Trachea); Larynx, Malignant Disease (Treatment, Tracheotomy); Lung, Tuberculosis of (Complications, Trachea); Lungs, Syphilis of (Trachea, Stenosis of); Mediastinum ; Status Lymphaticus ; Syphilis (Visceral Trachea); Thymus Gland ; Thyroid Gland, Surgery of; Tongue (Glossitis, Treat- ment); Tongue (Carcinoma, Treatment, Pre- liminary Tracheotomy); Tuberculosis (Larynx and Trachea). Malformations.—The chief malformations to which the trachea is liable are :— 1. The trachea is short and imperforate. 2. The trachea communicates with the oesophagus. 3. Fistula, by which the trachea communi- cates with the surface of the neck. Tracheitis.—The two chief varieties of in- flammation of the trachea are :— 1. Catarrhal tracheitis. 2. Diphtheritic tracheitis. Catarrhal Tracheitis.—This is often associ- ated with a similar condition in the larynx or bronchial tubes. Catisation.—Sudden alterations in the tem- perature of the air, the breathing of irritating vapours, and chill, are the most common excit- ing causes. Morbid Anatomy.—There is swelling with hyperajmia of the mucous membrane. In severe cases ulceration even may be present. Symptoms. — In acute catarrhal tracheitis there may be elevation of temperature with quickened pulse, while the patient complains of a tickling sensation in the trachea and of substernal pain. Cough is one of the most prominent symptoms, and is most marked when the patient lies down. It is at first dry and accompanied by very little expectoration, but afterwards the sputum becomes more abundant and more purulent. Nothing abnormal is heard by auscultation over the trachea. Diagnosis.—This depends on examination. Thus, with the laryngoscope the presence of an accompanying laryngitis will be confirmed or contradicted, while if the glottis be widely open and a good view obtained, hypersemia of the ti'acheal mucous membrane will be seen. By examination of the chest the presence or absence of bronchitis will be diagnosed. In chronic catarrhal tracheitis there is little or no constitutional disturbance; but there is present a constant feeling of irritation in the trachea, with cough. The same physical ex- amination must be made as in the case of acute affection. Treatment.—At the commencement of an attack of acute catarrhal tracheitis the patient should, if possible, be put to bed and an aperient given, preferably calomel, followed by a saline. Given at this stage good results follow the ad- ministration of Tn.xx. doses of vinum antimoniale, and, if there is much substernal pain, hot linseed poultices over the front of the chest give relief. The cough is best relieved by the frequent inhalation of the steam from a pint of hot water to which 5j. of compound tincture of benzene has been added. As expectoration becomes more profuse and the cough loose, it is well to give a mixture containing ipecacuanha, iodide of potassium, ammonium carbonate, and senega. In the chronic condition tonics, such as iron and quinine, are indicated, and the patient should, if possible, have change of air. In obstinate cases a blister over the sternum is of great service. Diphtheritic Tracheitis.—This nearly always occurs as an extension downwards of laryngeal diphtheria, but the deposit of diphtheritic membrane in the trachea is sometimes primary (v. article "Diphtheria," vol. ii.).