UTERUS, NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE 353 sufficiently indicated the varieties of cysts ; it is published only in the hope that in future classification may become more accurate. A. True Degenerations 1. Simple aseptic necrobiosis occurs in tumours in which the blood-supply is absent or deficient, but to which septic germs have not acquired access. The tumours in such cases have prob- ably been badly supplied with nourishment from the first, and consequently a com- paratively slight interference with the vessels stops the supply altogether. 2. Suppuration.—The change may depend on inflammation commencing in the tumour itself, or on extension to it of morbid changes from neighbouring organs, such, for instance, as the vermiform appendix, the ovaries, or tubes. In this degeneration some micro-organism plays a part, for instance the streptococcus, staphylo- coccus, gonococcus, the bacillus of tubercle, or the bacillus coli communis. The process must not be considered identical with sloughing or gangrene. 3. Sloughing may attack fibroids in many ways by interference with their vascular supply, mechanical injury, or the invasion of septic organisms. These conditions, singly or com- bined, are seen under the following circum- stances among others:— (1) As a result of bruising or other injury during childbirth, either from the muscular contractions necessary to the process, from pressure of the child's head, or as the result of assistance, manual or instrumental. (2) As one effect of puerperal septicsemia— the micro-organisms or their toxins obtaining access to the tumour and interfering with its vitality. (3) As the result of operations intended for the removal of the tumour. (a) Submucous enucleation, where the capsule has been injured and the uterus left perforce or designedly to expel the tumour. (6) Electrolysis, where the cauterising effects of the intra-uterine electrode injures the endometrium and opens the way for pathogenic micro-organisms, or com- promises the vitality of the tumour by interfering with its supply of blood. In cases where a sharp electrode is plunged through the endometrium and the intervening tissues into the tumour, the injury is designed to produce a local disintegration of tissue which in so badly vascularised a tumour is likely to lead to generalised destructive changes. (c) Result of extension from neighbouring organs, as in cases of disease of the pelvic and adjacent abdominal organs; especially in suppurative diseases of the ovaries, tubes, and appendix vermi- VOL. X formis. In some cases where no evident disease can be found it seems probable that infection by the bacillus communis coli may occur. (c?) Infection through the blood-supply, as in the acute exanthemata, influenza, etc. (e) From incarceration of the tumour and uterus (resembling the condition of incarcerated retroverted gravid uterus), or from the incarceration of a peduncu- lated subperitoneal fibroid which has slipped behind the uterus and gives rise to urgent and distressing symptoms re- sembling those of strangulation of a viscus. 4. (Edematous and Myxomatous Degeneration. —Probably the term myxomatous is not always correctly used. In the majority of cases the fluid contained in the interstices of the tumour is serum rather than mucus. In some tumours, no doubt, there is myxomatous degeneration, but this is a different sort of change, and should not be confounded with an ordinary oedema {see Stanmore Bishop's Uterine Fibro-Myomata, 1901). 5. Calcareous degeneration occurs (1) in the capsule (calcification en coque of Matthews Duncan), also (2) throughout the tumour, commencing from the centre and extending to the circumference. The deposition of salts, chiefly of phosphate of lime, may be so general that the sawn surface of the tumour presents a uniformly hard surface capable of taking a high polish, or it may be partial, so that the cut surface presents a coral-like appearance, the calcified portions persisting while the fluid or soft solid which filled the interstices has disappeared. By calcareous degeneration are formed those curiosities of ancient medical literature known as "womb stones." Calcification is due to deficiency in quantity or quality in the supply of arterial blood and is a true degeneration, such as is seen in the case of calcification of arteries. It is worthy of note that this change appears to be common in fibroids of long standing that have been ex- truded from the peritoneal surface of the uterus and have maintained a precarious existence by adhesion to other organs. 6. Fatty degeneration may be primary, and in a sense "physiological" and curative, as when the tissues of a "fibroid" share in the physiological involution of the uterus and other pelvic organs after parturition and after the menopause, when some degree of fatty change appears to precede involution. Fatty degeneration of fibroids may also be secondary and purely pathological; for in- stance, when it occurs as part of, or in the course of, other degenerations, such as the in- flammatory, the necrotic, and the sarcomatous. 7. Lastly, some cases of gangrenous and other necrotic degenerations of fibroids are