258 URETHRA, DISEASES OF absolutely clean, quite supple, and well lubri- cated. Glycerine or castor oil will be found more useful than vaselin or lanolin. The patient should be recumbent on a couch, the sui-geon standing upon his right side. The instrument is passed onwards deliberately, continuously, and without using any force, and it should be with- drawn as slowly and gently as it has been passed. The instrument will pass into the bladder with the greatest ease if there is no stricture, though the patient may complain of a little smarting or even faintness as it passes through the triangu- lar ligament, and of a desire to pass water when the end of the bougie touches the trigone. If a stricture be present the bougie will be more or less completely arrested during its passage, the actual seat of arrest being situated most often at the bulbo-membranous part of the urethra, the next commonest seat of stricture being within two inches of the urinary meatus; whilst the prostatic urethra is only strictured as a result of direct injury. Strictures are often multiple, and when this is the case the posterior stricture is usually tighter than the anterior. An attempt should be made to ascertain the size of the stricture as soon as its position has been determined. This estimation is made by passing a black olivary bougie of large size, and replac- ing it by successively smaller sizes, until an instrument can be passed through the stricture ; and it is always advisable to begin with a large bougie and work downwards rather than to begin with a small size and work up to bigger ones, since by this method it is easy to under- estimate the size of a stricture, because the passage of successive instruments causes spasm or congestion of the injured urethra. Treatment.—A stricture sometimes leads to acute retention of urine, even though it has not previously been troublesome. Such a condition is readily caused by anything which will produce a temporary congestion of the urethral mucous membrane or a reflex spasm of the muscles surrounding the urethra, or even of the mus- cularis mucosae itself. A hot bath and a full dose of Dover's powder will often enable a patient to pass his water in such cases, but if these measures fail, the passage of a No. 8 or 9 black olivary catheter can generally be readily effected if the instrument be passed gently but continuously and rather quickly along the urethra, for any jerky movement or any bung- ling or uncertainty on the part of the surgeon will increase the spasm. The broad principles to be grasped in the treatment of an organic stricture are, first, that the canal of the urethra be sufficiently enlarged to allow of the free flow of urine, and, secondly, that its calibre should afterwards be maintained. The urethra is restored to a sufficient size either by instrumental dilatation or by division of the strictured portion. Dilata- tion is the better method in most cases, though it has well-marked limitations. Some patients are quite unable to tolerate the passage of instruments; in others the stricture contracts again as quickly as it is dilated — resilient stricture; other strictures are so firm and gristly as to be incapable of dilatation, whilst others again are practically impermeable. As a general rule strictures situated within the meatus are better divided than dilated. Dilata- tion is performed either gradually or continu- ously ; gradual dilatation is the method most often employed at the present time, because it does not oblige a patient to discontinue his ordinary avocations. A clean black olivary bougie is passed through the stricture, of as large a size as can be introduced, and is im- mediately withdrawn, the patient being told to come again for a second sitting after an interval of five or seven days. At the next interview a bougie of the same size as the one last passed is again introduced, and when it is withdrawn it is replaced by the next size larger. A similar method is followed on successive occasions, until a No. 10 English can be readily passed into the bladder. Further dilatation to admit a No. 15 or 16 English is accomplished by the use of a highly polished and conical steel sound, whose curve is graduated through four sizes of the French gauge from the point to the thickest part. The patient should be told that it may take from five to six months to dilate a moderately tight stricture, but he has the satisfaction of knowing that when the dilatation is fully accomplished the occasional passage of a full-sized instrument will be sufficient to prevent recontraction. The directions I usually give to a patient who has been treated by gradual dilatation are to pass a bougie every Sunday morning for three months from the time he last sees me; on every alternate Sunday for a further period of six months ; then once a month for nine months; and finally on every quarter day, but he is not to feel satisfied unless he can continue to pass the full-sized instrument on each occasion. The rationale of the cure is not fully understood, though there is little doubt that it acts by altering the blood and lymph supply in the affected part of the mucous membrane. Sizes of Catheters and Bougies.—The sizes of English catheters and bougies are purely empirical, for they differ slightly according to the maker. They are numbered from 1 to 12, and correspond roughly with Nos. 3 to 21 of the French scale. The filiere Charriere of the French notation is the more satisfactory, as it is based on a scientific system. It extends from 1 to 30, each number denoting the size of the circumference of the instrument in millimetres, thus No. 1 catheter or bougie measures one millimetre or one-twenty-fifth of an inch round, No. 6, six millimetres, and so on. Continuous dilatation is less often employed.