TOXICOLOGY 59 plied to ulcered surfaces have caused death. Intra-uterine injections of a solution of 1 in 2000 of corrosive sublimate have also caused death. Absorption of a solution of corrosive sublimate may take place through the unbroken skin, and accidents occasionally occur from the extensive use of this salt as an antiseptic. The symptoms produced by red and white precipitates are those of an irritant; the toxic action of these salts is much milder than that of corrosive sublimate. Treatment.—In corrosive sublimate poisoning, if vomiting has not occurred, white of egg should be administered, followed by an emetic ; the former to combine with the poison and render it inert, and the latter to dislodge the compound, as it is soluble in excess of albumin. Demulcents, opium, and stimulants will then be required. Fatal Dose.—Three to five grains of corrosive sublimate may be regarded as a fatal dose for an adult; recovery has followed three hundred and seventy grains. When death occurs it is usually within three or four days; it has occurred in a few hours, and has been delayed for seven or eight days. Red precipitate has been recovered from after a dose of a teaspoon- ful and more. Thirty-five grains of white pre- cipitate have caused death. Recovery has followed two drachms. Post-mortem Appearances.—After a fatal dose of corrosive sublimate the mucous membrane of the mouth and oesophagus is swollen, softened, and ash-grey or white in colour. The mucous membrane of the stomach is also swollen and softened, and may be deeply injected and ecchymosed; eschars may be present; some- times there is little or no appearance of inflam- mation. The small intestines are less affected than the colon and rectum, which are often deeply injected and may be ulcerated. Inter- stitial nephritis is usually found to have occurred, and there may be a deposit of calcare- ous salts in the cortex of the kidney. Chronic mercurial poisoning is almost ex- clusively due to the use of mercury, or its salts, in certain trades, such as looking-glass silverers, thermometer and barometer makers, and workers in quicksilver mines, and manu- factories in which preparations of mercury are made; furriers and bronzers also use mercurial salts, and are liable to suffer from chronic poisoning. The symptoms comprise loss of appetite, of flesh, and of strength, with colicky pains, stomatitis, salivation, and tender- ness of the gums, with extreme foetor of the breath. Ansemia, occasional vomiting, and diarrhoea may occur, and eczematous or other eruptions of the skin. Later a fine tremor develops in the muscles of the tongue and face, which tends to spread to the arms and legs. As a rule more or less paralysis occurs, and there may be disturbance of the mind. Tests.—With mercuric salts potassium iodide gives a scarlet precipitate soluble in excess. Stannous chloride gives a white precipitate which changes to grey. With soluble mercurous salts potassium iodide gives a green precipitate. Lead.—The acetate, the carbonate, and the chromate are the salts chiefly met with in acute poisoning by lead. Symptoms.—The salts of lead act as mild irritants. If an ounce of the acetate be swallowed a metallic taste is at once perceived, followed by the usual burning sensation, which is common to metallic irritants, in the gullet and down to the stomach. In about half an hour, vomiting of white, opaque masses, which may be tinged with blood, occurs. There is thirst and colicky pains in the abdomen, which come on in paroxysms, and which are accom- panied by rigidity of the abdominal muscles; the patient attempts to obtain ease by bending forward and compressing the abdomen. Usually the bowels are constipated, occasionally they are relaxed, the motions being black from the presence of lead sulphide. The urine is partially suppressed. There is great prostration, verti- go, pains in head and limbs, numbness, and parsesthesiee, cramps in the calves, and occasion- ally paralysis. The tongue is coated, and the breath is offensive. The pulse is small and frequent. The blue line on the margins of the gums, which is characteristic of chronic lead poisoning, is rarely present. Most cases of acute lead poisoning recover. Treatment.—The stomach should be washed out unless there has been free vomiting. Sodium and magnesium sulphates should be given in half-ounce doses, dissolved in half-pints of water; the resulting lead sulphate should then be got rid of by purgation. Demulcents and opium will be required. Fatal Dose.—The fatal dose of lead acetate is unknown; recovery has followed one ounce. The post-mortem appearances are those of a mild irritant. Chronic Lead Poisoning or Plumhism.—The extensive use of lead in trade pursuits, and the many ways in which beverages and articles of food may, accidentally, become contaminated with it, together with the characteristic cumu- lative properties it possesses, all tend to make chronic lead poisoning a much too common occurrence. Of trade pursuits in which lead is used there is no end; beginning with the extraction and reduction of the ore, an endless sequence is encountered of manufactures in which lead in one form or other is used. Workers in the manufacture of lead salts, especially of white and red lead, painters, plumbers, gas-fitters, file-cutters, printers, dip- pers, and other workers in potteries, glass- cutters, coach-makers, workers in enamelled sheet-iron ware, in the construction of electrical accumulators, in the preparation of white