578 X-RAYS was practically no pain, and little discharge. Professor Annandale expressed himself as greatly pleased with the result. Sometimes chronic ulcers and sinus improve under X-ray exposures; the vascular changes, leucocytosis, and growth of connective tissue produced by the rays are likely to be beneficial. Sjogren and Sederholm {Archives of the Ri'mtgen Ray, August 1901) report 4 cases in which the cause of ulceration was uncertain; the only point in common between them was that they had resisted other methods. Two of these were cured and 1 greatly benefited. Dr. Berry Hart {British Aledical Journal, 31st May 1902) describes 2 cases treated in the electrical de- partment of the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, in which obstinate callous sinuses in the ab- dominal wall healed up—1 after a single appli- cation of the X-rays for photographic purposes with a probe in the sinus, the other after three exposures (Fig. 19). The author has observed similar good results in some cases, but in others, particularly in fistulse, no beneficial effects. High frequency currents are likely to be of more service in such cases. Trachoma.—Mr. M. S. Mayon and Dr. David W^lsh have reported cases of trachoma cured by exposure to the Rontgen rays. Mr. Mayon {Archives of the Rontgen Ray, January 1903) states that the final result to the lid is most satisfactory. Instead of the white, puckered conjunctiva gained by other methods, a supple, non-contracted, non-scarred conjunctiva, with no obliteration of the fornices, unless they are already gone before treatment, is produced, similar to the soft, supple scar in the skin following by this form of treatment in rodent ulcers, as compared with the dense cicatrix of excision. As regards the effect on the pannus, it often clears with great rapidity, especially if recent, and it is the common thing for patients to say that they see more clearly from almost the first exposure. But even dense corneal opacity will often clear considerably, and in one case of extensive destruction a cicatrisation of the cornea, in which at the commencement of treat- ment the patient could only see shadows, in two months she could count fingers three feet away. The chief advantages of this treatment are :— 1. It leaves considerably less deformity. 2. It is a painless treatment. 3. The pannus clears more thoroughly. Diseases of the Spinal Cord.—Dr. Byrom Bramwell has had some nervous cases, mostly suffering from locomotor ataxy, treated with the Rontgen rays to the lumbar and lower dorsal region, in the electrical department of the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. He exhibited one patient to the Edin. Med. Chir. Society; this patient had derived marked benefit from the treatment and had put on weight. The writer tried the rays in an old case o myelitis without effect. Neuralgia.—The Rontgen rays may be tried for this : they will nearly always relieve the pain of cancer, and the author has seen cases of sciatica and even of toothache relieved. This relief of pain was strikingly brought home to me in a case of severe and intractable toothache sent to me for diagnostic purposes by Mr. Watson, L.D.S. Several photographs of the suspected teeth (exposures from two to ten seconds) were taken, but when the patient re- turned in a few days' time he told me that his persistent pain had disappeared shortly after the exposures. Stembo {Archives of the Rontgen Ray, January 1901) narrates cases of neuralgia which were relieved as a rule after the third application. The Finsen Light and High Frequency Currents By consulting the table on page 565 it will be seen that the Finsen light consists chiefly of the blue, indigo, violet, and ultra violet rays of the spectrum. Such rays are given off by the sun and by certain artificial lights, such as the arc light and that of a ^^-t. condenser spark, particu- larly in the two latter /JBi^^t, f\ cases if iron poles or MK^^^^^^f4\| electrodes be used. The 'TmLsf^^^SK'K original large arc light V used by Prof. Finsen has been superseded in this % ^S8^#*^P country by small arc Vt/ lights placed close to the I patient and separated ^^^j I from the diseased area I by two diaphragms of i i f quartz and a ^^J^'^ pig 20.—London hospital lamp, runnmg water. i his Marshall and Woods, arrangement is neces- sary to cool the light by absorbing the radiant heat rays. A type of such a lamp is the Lortet- Genoud or its London hospital modification (Fig. 20). To render the part to be treated ansemic the patient presses it against the outer quartz diaphragm, and the part is thus brought within 2 or 3 inches of the light. To supply the lamp with electricity it must be attached to the electric light mains with a sufficient resistance in series to bring the current down to about seven to ten amperes. A number of these lamps have now been in operation in the United Kingdom for some time, and it is found that an exposure of some ten to twenty minutes is sufficient to produce the necessary reaction. With the original Finsen large arc light the exposures lasted an hour or more, and the area affected was one-quarter the size. More recent arc lights use iron poles (Dr. Bang's lamp, Fig. 21), or carbon poles with cores of iron dust (Dr. Strubel's lamp. Fig. 22). The