224 UNCONSCIOUSNESS upon complete seriality of presentation and representation derived from activities within the whole of the cortex, and possibly incomplete knowledge or partial consciousness may be derived from a disruption of that seriality or sequence through inactivity of part of the cortex. The phenomena of double conscious- ness and the various epileptiform states would appear to warrant this assumption, and by its aid some of the greatest difficulties of our sub- ject may be unravelled. Before discussing this question more fully, however, it is advisable that we should again refer to Hughlings Jackson's scheme of evolu- tion. We have in this scheme (1) a level for representations, (2) a level for re-representa- tions, and (3) another for re-re-representations. The difficulty of determining what areas of the cortex are concerned with the manifestations of subjectivity, while unsurmountable on the as- sumption that any areas are concerned more directly than others, disappears with the hypo- thesis that all areas are concerned directly and indirectly, and that subjectivity is merely in its completeness dependent upon a complete psychical seriality and sequence, and that this completeness of seriality is dependent upon a complete functioning of the whole cortex. Were the prfefrontal lobes the physical sub- strata for the reception of re-re-representations, these lobes would be essential for the proper correlation of modes of matter to modes of mind. We have no proof, however, that any part of the human cortex is indispensable to the manifestations of subjectivity. The contents of consciousness—previously acquired, and serving as the mental data upon which the ego pre- serves its continuity—may be rendered tempo- rarily inert by interference with the modes of matter concerned with the local memories {e.g. word-deafness, etc.), but this is all. No amount of philosophy or argument will explain the evolution of a subject from an object. Neither will it prove the nature of that subject by the demonstration of the sources from which it receives its objective supplies, or data in con- sciousness. We have, therefore, ample experimental and pathological evidences that the mind can see, feel, and will, in spite of the physical and structural discontinuities of the brain cortex. Destruction of any brain-areas is, so far as our knowledge goes at present, not necessarily attended by alteration in the subjectivity of the mind. We may destroy, extirpate, or sever the connection of any of the cortical areas, and we can thereby cut off present supplies, or even render the results of former activities inert (memory); beyond this, however, we cannot go. There is no way of evading the difficulty of adapting the subjectivity of the mind to anatomico-physiological data. When we ad- vance in our knowledge of the data of con- sciousness (which are much the same now as they were) and the relations of the various structures of the brain, we may be able to formulate some more definite doctrines as to cerebral localisation. In the meantime, how- ever, we can offer no ultimate solution of the one great difficulty. If we localise determinate activities within restricted areas, we become responsible for an account of some supreme site, where the mental correlates of these activities are viewed by the subject. Or if, on the other hand, we are indifferentists, we find ourselves confronted with the problem of having to account for the mode by which the subject obtains its view of the objects corre- lated with physiological activities in widely apart localities. It is needless to say, that whichever view we take, our difficulty will be reaching the truth so far as the subjectivity is concerned. The answer of cerebral anatomy and physi- ology to the question of localisation of conscious- ness has, therefore, been of little value hitherto, and we are as yet unable to account for the phenomena of mind by the study of material structures. The mere fact that the formerly experienced contents of consciousness are ren- dered inert or incapable of being revived (as in cases of word-blindness and word-deafness, etc.) proves nothing, inasmuch as we are unable to prove whether the contents themselves are de- stroyed or only rendered inert through lesions of the ti'acts through which their causal or effectual activities have been or should be trans- mitted. The weighty and philosophical arguments of Hughlings Jackson, that, from an evolutionary standpoint, each and every part of the body must be represented in any one unit of the cerebi'al cortex, would appear to bear out the contention that consciousness or knowledge is not dependent upon one special area, but upon the integrity and active co-operation of all. Amoeboidism of Nerve Cells.—Without enter- ing upon a discussion as to the value of all the ingenious and suggestive views concerning the amoeboid movements of nerve-cells, it will simplify the subject if these views are here briefly referred to. The neuron theory holds that every nerve-cell with its protoplasmic proceeds, axis-cylinder process, and collaterals, is an anatomical unit, structurally independent of other nerve-cells. The researches of Cajal, Kolliker, Duval, etc., lead one to adopt the view of the contiguity of the ramifications of the neurons, as against the view of the continuity entertained by Gerlach, but it is natural to inquire whether these proto- plasmic ramifications are susceptible of approach- ing to, or receding from one another, by virtue of their contractile properties. In 1890 Rtick- hardt suggested that these movements might account for the differences in the functional