VAGINA, DISORDERS OF THE 413 and, further, the sutures can be applied with much less danger of tension. Third Stage.—The sutures may be applied by means of handled needles with suitable curves, or by small curved and half-curved needles with a needle-holder. The material employed may be silver wire, silkworm gut, or fine silk. Deep sutures at intervals of about a quarter of an inch should be passed under the whole width of the raw surface and brought out near its borders ; all the sutures should be placed before any are tied. The direction of the line of union is often determined by the shape of the fistula or of the freshened surface ; where there is a free choice a transverse line is preferable, because then there is less risk of tension on the sutures; in large defects the union will often not be in a single line, but will have a Y or T shape. After all the sutures are introduced, the wound is sponged dry, and the sutures are tied. Finally the bladder is washed out to re- move any blood that may have entered and to make sure that the closure is perfect. Where the flap-splitting method has been employed, the vesical wall is brought together by one or more layers of interrupted catgut sutures, the vaginal wound being then closed by silk or wire or silkworm gut sutures. The after-treatment is simple. The wound is powdered with iodoform at the close of the operation, and is then left completely at rest until the sutures are removed ; only if there is some special indication are vaginal douches needed. The catheter is passed every two or three hours until the patient is able to pass urine naturally, which she is allowed to do as soon as she is able. Ten days is the usual term for complete rest in bed; an easily digestible diet should be ordered, and daily evacuation of the bowels secured. Silk sutures may be re- moved on the eighth or ninth day; wire or silkworm gut may be left for a week or two longer. The failure of the operation is marked as a rule by irregular rise of temperature, or by some incontinence making its appearance again on the third or fourth day. Sometimes, however, the failure is not discovered until the patient is allowed to get up or the sutures are taken out. The cause of the incontinence may now be a stitch-hole, which will heal up with a few days' extra rest in bed, or after a few applications of nitrate of silver. If the opera- tion has to be repeated, this should be done two to three weeks after the first one. Recto-VAGINAL FiSTULiE.—Sometimes after labour a complete rupture of the perineum may be followed by a superficial healing which leaves a communication between the rectum and the vagina, and the same result occasionally follows badly executed plastic operations for complete rupture. Fistulte may also arise from partial gangrene during the puerperium, from long- continued pressvire from a pessary, especially Zwanck's, or occasionally from a wound. Finally, recto-vaginal fistulse are also found in advanced cases of malignant disease of the cervix, vagina, or rectum, and in the group of affections which are included under the name ^sthiomene. Fistulas between the vagina and the large intestine above the rectum, or between it and the small intestine, are also occasionally met with. They are always situated high up in the posterior vaginal wall, and may arise either as a result of a vaginal rupture in labour, which allows coils of intestine to protrude, or as a result of a fall on a sharp penetrating object, such as a hay-fork. Occasionally a fistula of this kind may arise indirectly from an abscess in Douglas's pouch, usually the result of a salpingitis, opening into the vagina and the rectum; the abscess may be tuberculous. In these cases of intestino-vaginal fistula, either the whole contents of the bowel may pass through the fistula—an artificial vaginal anus; or only a part may pass, in which case the term intestino-vaginal fistula is appropriate. The symptoms vary with the size of the fistula. In very small openings there may be a valve-like closure and no symptoms; in other cases flatus and fluid motions pass through the fistula, and in still larger ones most of the evacuations may pass through the fistula and thus through the vulvar orifice. The symptoms of a communication between the vagina and the small intestine consist in the passage of the characteristic contents of the small intestine at a longer or shorter interval after meals. Where all the contents of the small intestine pass through the vagina the general condition of the patient rapidly deteriorates, and on this circumstance, as well as on the cause of the fistula, the prognosis depends. Where only the smaller portion of the contents pass through the vagina, the fistula shows a great tendency to heal spontaneously, although the process of healing may take a very long time. It is important to bear this in mind, because it follows that operation should not be undertaken too hurriedly in these cases. Where there is an artificial anus the best treatment probably consists in laparotomy and separation of the adherent and fistulous intestine, followed by sutures or by anastomosis as may be indicated. Where the fistula depends on tubercular disease it is best left alone. The prognosis of recto-vaginal fistula is the same as that of the condition which gives rise to it. The treatment in simple cases consists in plastic operation. This is usually carried out through the vagina, and comprises two steps: (1) the preparation of a raw surface, and (2) the application of sutures. The raw surface may be obtained either by denudation of a strip of vaginal mucous membrane bordering the fistula; or by a process of flap-splitting, the