193 TYPHOID FEVER solids are first started. Chiari suggests dietetic indiscretions may lead to the discharge of spe- cific bacilli from the bile ducts into the intestine. The cold-bath treatment is said to increase the frequency of relapse, but the curious epochs in which relapses become unusually frequent, point strongly to the character of the epidemic exert- ing an important influence. Course of the Relapse.—It may begin with all the typical symptoms of typhoid fever, but the temperature more often ascends abruptly than in primary attacks, and rash is less often present, probably because a good many relapses dwindle away by the period at which eruption is due. A relapse may last five days or be long pro- tracted, longer even than the primary attacks ; in Murchison's 53 cases the average duration was fifteen days. The fever and symptoms usually slowly sub- side, but hsemorrhage or perforation or pneu- monia may occur. Flint regarded a relapse as more serious than the primary attack ; the con- tary is the general experience; often complica- tions which are septic set up pyrexia and simulate relapses. Period at which Relapse occurs.—An analysis of 53 cases of relapse by Murchison showed the average period of intermission to be just over eleven days. Cases are recorded of relapse forty-eight hours after the subsidence of the first attack ; probably they may occur immediately after its subsi- dence. The period of intermission may be, on the other hand, very long; in one of my own cases it was twenty-six days, in another sixty days, and Goltdammer records an interval of ten weeks. Multiple Relapses.—A second relapse is not very uncommon, and records exist of three, four, or even five relapses; each relapse is usually less severe than the preceding one. Cause of Relapses. — Autopsies show that during a relapse fresh intestinal disease associ- ated with the original older disease of the intestine. The part of intestine affected in the relapse is higher than that first attack. The mesenteric glands and spleen become enlarged again. The relapse can only be ascribed to re-infection from within, an occurrence con- flicting to some degree with the belief that typhoid fever confers immunity against a second attack. They have been attributed, with considerable reason, to a fresh absorption of toxins from the alimentary canal. Recrudescences, exacerbations, spurious re- lapses, intercurrent relapses, are spoken of and much confused together. A Spurious Relapse is a rise of temperature occurring during convalescence without the symptoms of a true relapse, and is due usually to nervous excitement or fatigue, or some slight local complication acting on a heat-regulating VOL. X centre which is in a condition easily disturbed from the effects of the attack of typhoid. An Exacerbation or Recrudescence.—After an improvement in temperature and symptoms, but without a fall of temperature to normal, the temperature ascends again, and the symptoms become more severe and sometimes more so than throughout the attack. Irvine regarded these as genuine relapses, the relapse over- lapping the attack, and spoke of them as " intercurrent relapses.' Forms of Typhoid Fever The Mild Form.—There is pyrexia, usually commencing gradually and of moderate degree, and the symptoms generally are not severe. It may run a full course of twenty-one to twenty- eight days, or one of only ten or twelve days. The mildest cases are seen in children. It is to be borne in mind that a " mild " may develop into a serious case as it goes on. The Severe or Grave Form may be severe from various causes : from the height of the fever, the severity of the intestinal lesions and symp- toms, or from pi'ofound toxic effects, from the gravity of the complications, or from any com- bination of these causes. The grave form has been subdivided into many varieties — the haemorrhagic, adynamic, bilious, ataxic, etc.— but however numerous we make these varieties, they will not cover all the combinations of types which occur in practice. Much of the gravity of many cases is due to other micro-organisms than the typhoid bacillus. The haemorrhagic form is not often seen now in England, and is characterised by haemor- rhages under the skin, and from mucous mem- branes. It is a most dangerous type of the disease. Abortive Form.—Cases beginning gradually or abruptly (Turjensen says usually abruptly) may end prematurely with a gradual or critical fall of temperature at any time after the tenth day. It is said this may occur even earlier than the tenth day, but before this date the charac- teristic eruption can hardly have appeared, and the diagnosis can scarcely have been a certain one. (It has been said that in these cases the roseolous eruption occurred on the second to fifth day, but more probably the date of com- mencement of the disease had been determined wrongly.) These abortive attacks of typhoid may be followed by a relapse. Ambulatory or Latent Form mostly occurs in the labouring classes who continue their occupa- tion in defiance of symptoms throughout the whole course of the disease to recovery, or till some complication, such as melaena or perfora- tion of intestine, compels their giving up. A young man presented himself in my out-patient department, with extreme tremor of lips and limbs, with extremely feeble pulse, and sub- normal temperature, but quite clear in mind.