TUBERCULOSIS 134 if slow, the bone is absorbed and an abscess forms. Sometimes, however, the central part becomes densely infiltrated, and may become separated and lie as a sequestrum in a bath of pus, the cavity being lined with tuberculous granulation tissue. Whether or not this central sclerosis takes place, the granulation tissue may become organised into dense fibrous tissue, which later becomes the seat of osseous deposit. The central part may cicatrise, and healing become complete, or it may remain soft and still contain active tubercle bacilli, which later may cause recrudescence of the disease. Even though bacilli be not demonstrable microscopi- cally in such lesions they may produce tuber- culosis on inoculation into animals (Hamilton, M'Weeney). 2. Tuherculoios Necrosis. — In this condition a visible sequestrum is produced which, as Konig pointed out, remains in connection with living- bone. The bone containing it may show no alteration in external conformation. If the sequestrum is exposed on the surface of a joint, it becomes eburnated and polished. Probably the change is primarily due to tuberculous ostitis, which produces increased density and finally death. Surrounding the sequestrum grey granu- lations are seen in the medullary spaces. 3. Diffuse progressive tube7'culosis is more common than the other two forms. The lesions in this form differ from those just described by the absence of a limiting wall. It is met with most typically in short bones. The spongy tissue becomes diffusely infiltrated with yellow caseous material, and this spreads by direct continuity from one bone to another, causing destruction of the bony framework — caries— often associated with suppuration. This is the common lesion in strumous dacty- litis, where the caseous material dilates the shaft, and also induces secondary thickening of the soft tissues around. In short bones, and in the ends of long bones, caseation may not be evident, but rarefaction may be extreme from replacement of the marrow by vascular granulation tissue, with great in- crease in the number of round cells and osteo- clasts. On maceration a very delicate frame- work of bone remains. Such altered bone may be readily cut with a knife. Healing may take place. From the granula- tion tissue new bone may develop, replacing the diseased, and cause anchylosis. This healing is sometimes only apparent, and recrudescence may take place. In the neighbourhood there are accompanying proliferative changes, resulting in new forma- tion of bone, especially under the periosteum— " osteophytic " outgrowths. Results of Spreading Tuberculosis of Bone.— It may penetrate to the surface and produce exfoliation of bone with formation of a cold abscess, e.g. in the lumbar spine or in the popliteal space. If near epiphyseal cartilage, a gross lesion may completely destroy it. If small, the lesion destroys part only, or may extend through it. The epiphyseal cartilage may sclerose, becoming converted on the diaphyseal aspect into cal- careous or bony tissue, so that its bone-forming function ends and the limb becomes stunted. If near joint-cartilage, the granulation tissue may fungate through it, or may spread undei'- neath it, separating the whole. The cartilage may become undermined from the edge, or it may become ulcerated, in all cases tuberculosis of the joint resulting. The invading and de- structive power is greatly increased if septicity is superadded. It may give rise to general tubei'culosis. Zahn of Geneva found this to occur in 3-2 per cent of his cases. Tuberculosis op Joints. — Tuberculosis of joints is usually secondary to that of bone; it may be primary in the synovial membrane, or the epiphyseal ends of the bones and the synovial membrane may be simultaneously affected. The disease is mostly one of children. When secondary to bone, the disease may erode the cartilage and attack the joint directly, or it may extend in the first place to the synovial membrane at the margin of the cartilage. Tuberculous Synovitis.—This presents three varieties. (1) Miliary Tuberculosis. This con- dition is described only in connection with the knee-joint. The membrane is not greatly thickened, but numerous grey tubercles can be detected, especially round about the margins of the patella. The joint contains turbid synovial fluid, with or without flakes of lymph. Micro- scopically the tubercles are very cellular, and are arranged upon the blood-vessels. Alexis Thomson states that this form seems specially associated with previous genito-urinary tubercu- losis. (2) Nodular Tuberculosis.—In this form the synovial membrane is firm, and from it nodular, cauliflower-like formations project. The turbid synovia contains frequently loose bodies, fibrinous or composed in part of cartilage or bone. These are derived froiu detached portions of the nodules or semi-lunar cartilages, or develop from the granulation tissue which forms in the syn- ovial membrane. (3) The most common form, however, is that known as "gelatinous degeneration," "tumour albus " or white swelling, "strumous synovitis." Here the synovial membrane becomes con- verted into vascular granulation tissue, pink, swollen, and pulpy, microscopically showing typical giant-cell systems, but rarely caseation. The exudation into the joint is serous, or sero- fibrinous. The altered synovial membrane after a time overlaps the edges of the cartilages, and aided by the changes already described in bone,