104 TKAPP'S COEFFICIENT OR FORMULA Trapp's Coefficient or For- mula,.—A means of estimating the amount of solid matter in the urine, consisting in multiplying the last two figures of the specific gravity by 2 or 2-33 (Hoeser's coefficient) and so getting the number of grammes of solids per 1000 c.c. of urine. Trau be-Heri ng's Cu rves.—Rhyth- mical undulations seen in a sphygmographic tracing soon after respiration has stopped {e.g. from curara and section of the vagi); they re- present rhythmical variations in blood-pressure. Traube-Rosenstein Theory.— The theory that eclampsia is due to toxic cere- bral cedema causing antemia of the brain. See Eclampsia. Traube's Corpuscles. — Phantom corpuscles or erythrocytes which have the form of pale yellowish rings. Traube's Plug's. See Dittrich's Plugs. Traube's Space.—A semilunar space on the left side of the thorax where a tympanitic note is got on percussion due to air in the stomach ; the effusion in pleurisy may lead to its obliteration. Traube's Theory. See Respiration {Cheyne-Stokes, Explanation of). Trauma.—A wound or injury of any kind, from which come such terms as traumatic (relating to or caused by a wound), traumatism (the state produced by trauma, or trauma itself), and traumatology (the science of wounds). See Cataract {Traumatic); Joints, Diseases of {Arthritis Deformans or Traumatic Arthritis); Nerves, Peripheral {Injuries, Traumatic Neu- ritis) ; Spine, Surgical Affections of {Raihvay Spine or Traumatic Neurosis); Syringomyelia {Etiology, Trauma); Wounds {Drainage, Trau- matic Fever), etc. Trau mat icin.—A saturated solution of gutta-percha in chloroform, used for closing superficial wounds. Trau mat ides.—The consequences of the pruritic state. ,S'ee Pruritus {Consequences). Traumatol.—An antiseptic and dusting powder obtained by the action of iodine on cresol, and being, chemically, iodocresol (C-H^IO); it is insoluble in water and alcohol but soluble in chloroform. Trau matopnoea.—Breathing through the wound as in cases of penetrating wounds of the pleura. See Pleura, Surgical Affections of the {Traumatopnoea). Tread.—The germinating point or cicatri- cula of an impregnated egg. Treatment.—The management of cases of disease or injury with the purpose of procur- ing alleviation of suffering or complete removal of the morbid state ; it may be medicinal means, by operation, by diet, by exercise, by electricity, etc. See under the various diseases and under such general headings as hydropathy, thera- peutics, prescribing, etc. T ref r i W. &e Balneology (Great Britain, Wales, Chalybeate Waters); Mineral Waters {Chalybeate). Tre mat odes. See Parasites {Hel- minths, Trematodes or Flukes); Liver, Liver Parasites {Trematodes, Distomum). Trembles.—A disease of cattle, occur- ring in certain parts of the United States of America, believed to be the cause of milk-sickness in the human subject {Osle^-). Trembling Palsy.—Paralysis Agitans. See Paralysis {Paralysis Agitans); Tremor {Pathological Causes). Tremens.—See Delirium Tremens. Tremor. See also Alcoholism {Varia- tions) ; Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessbls {Pe- sulting Conditions, Intentional Tremor); Brain, Tumours of {Symptoms, Tremor); Children, Clinical Examination of {Nervous System, Tremor); General Paralysis {Symptoms, Tremor of Tongue); Hysteria {Motor Disorders, Hysteri- cal Tremblings); Malingering {General Con- siderations) ; Paralysis {Diagnosis, Paralysis Agitans); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthal- mic Goitre, Symptoms, Tremors); Trades, Dan- gerous {Mercurial Poisoning, Symptoms); Ur- iEMiA {Symptoms). The name tremor has been somewhat loosely given to various forms of rhythmical muscular contraction, which may be widely dissociated not only in their clinical character, but, as far as we can judge, in their physiological or patho- logical origin. It is customary, for instance, to talk of the tremor of fatigue, the tremor of Graves' disease, or the tremor of disseminate sclerosis. Tremor is not, therefore, a disease, nor, in all cases, a sign of disease, and owing to its widely different character under different circumstances it is not capable of a good patho- logical or clinical definition. Speaking gener- ally, the term may be said to embrace all the oscillations of a part or of the whole of the body which are rapidly repeated more or less continu- ously, and more or less regularly without being under the complete control of the will. Such oscillations may recur from two to ten or more times a second. They are all liable to be modi- fied by the will and by the emotions, and in most cases cease entirely under the influence of sleep or of general anaesthetics.