THYMUS GLAND 5 Less constantly, but still with sufficient fre- quency to warrant notice, we find described persistence or enlargement in acromegaly, Hodgkin's disease, and myxoedema. Except in leuksemia and Hodgkin's disease the relation of the enlargement to the general malady is ob- scure. In these conditions the enlargement is clinically unimportant, but such is not the case where we have an enlarged thymus, either in children or in adults, apart from another general disease. "ThymuS-Tod."—Literally, thymus- death ; sudden death due to enlargement of the thymus gland. See Status Lymphaticus. ThynnuS. See Snake-Bites and Poison- ous Fishes [Thynnus or Tunny Fish). Thyro- or Thyreo-.—In compound words thyro- (Gr. Ovpeos, an oblong shield) means relating to the thyroid gland or cartilage ; e.g. thyro-arytenoid (relating to the thyroid and arytenoid cartilages), thyro-antitoxine (a pre- paration of thyroid gland or a proteid contained in the thyroid gland), thyro-coUoid (a pro- prietary preparation of sheep's thyroid), thyrocele (goitre), thyroepiglottic or thyroepiglottidean (belonging to the thyroid cartilage and the epiglottis), thyroglandin (a compound of iodo- globulin and thyroidin, used in myxoedema and obesity), thyroglobulin (the iodine-proteid sec- reted by the thyroid gland and contained in the colloid), thyroglossal (belonging to the thyroid gland and the tongue), thyrohyoid (be- longing to the thyroid cartilage and the hyoid bone). See Thyroid Gland ; Larynx ; etc. Thyroidectomy.—Excision, in whole or part, of the thyroid gland or thyroid cartilage. See Thyroid Gland, Surgical Section. Thyroid Gland, iVIedical Sec- tion. Anatomy and Physiology ... 5 Parathyroid Glands .... 6 Myxedema ...... 7 Clinical Features .... 7 Treatment . . . . .10 Exophthalmic Goitre . . . .10 Etiology . . . . . .11 Clinical Features . . . .11 Treatment . . . . .16 Acute Thyroiditis 18 Goitre ....... 18 Varieties. . . . . .18 Etiology 19 Symptoms . . . . ,19 Treatment . . . . ,19 Malignant Disease , . . ,19 Surgical Section . . . . .19 See also Aneurysm {Neclt, Diagnosis from Blood Cyst of Thyroid); Bone, Diseases of {Secondary Tumour from Thyroid in Bone); Cretinism {Morbid Anatomy); Heart, Myo- cardium AND Endocardium {General Pathology, Etiology, Effect of Thyroid); Indigestion {Classification, Arrest of Thyroid Gland Secre- tion) ; Insanity, General Treatment of {Thyroid Extract); Larynx, Neuroses of {Paralysis of Vocal Cords); Larynx, Neuroses OF {Hypertrophy of Lingual Tonsil); Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Cancer, Inoperable, Thyroid Extract); Mental Deficiency {Cretinoid Cases); Neck, Region of {Enlargements of Thyroid Gland); Obesity {Treatment); Pancreas, Phy- siology OF {Glycosuria follotving Excision of Thyroid); Physiology, Internal Secretions OR Hormones {Thyroid Gland); Pregnancy, Affections of {Thyroid Enlargement); Psoriasis {Treatment); Rheumatism, Acute {Symptoms, Exophthalmic Goitre); Tetany {History, Extir- pation of Thyroid); Tumours, Inoperable, Treatment {Organotherapy). Anatomy and Physiology Anatomy.—The thyroid gland is composed of three parts—the two lateral lobes and the isthmus. Each lobe is about two inches long and somewhat oval in shape, the upper end being narrower and more pointed than the lower. The whole gland is of a dark reddish- brown colour, and in the adult weighs from an ounce to an ounce and a half. The gland receives an abundant blood-supply from the thyroid arteries, which anastomose freely, and end in a network of capillaries for each alveolus. The veins unite and form the superior, middle, and inferior thyroid veins. The lymphatics take origin from the lymph spaces of the con- nective tissue which surround each alveolus. They unite and ultimately open into the jugular lymphatic trunk, which on the left side opens into the thoracic duct, and on the right into the right lymphatic duct. The gland is invested by a fibrous capsule, extensions of which run into the gland, and subdivide into a supporting framework for the vesicles of the gland. The gland consists of a number of alveoli, which are rounded or polyhedral, with a diameter varying from 0*045 to 1 mm. A few of the follicles appear as a mass of cells; in the great majority, however, there is a central space filled with the colloid substance. Each alveolus is lined by a layer of epithelial cells, two kinds of which may be distinguished—the chief cells, which are cubical in shape, measuring from 8 fx to 16 /X in height by 6 ju. to 8 ju. in breadth, and the colloid cells, which measure from 7 /a to 9 in height. The colloid substance which fills the centre of the alveolus is a glairy fluid and yellowish in colour, and in it red blood corpuscles, leucocytes, and epithelial cells may sometimes be seen. The colloid substance is secreted by the epi- thelial cells which line the alveolus, in the