VISCERAL PAIN 480 pathetic system is at variance with the accepted view that the sympathetic system is but an outgrowth from the cerebro-spinal. The evi- dence from the latter view is based entirely on the histological examination of the embryo. Sufficient account may not have been taken in the interpretation of the observation of the effect of condensation where the development of the organs may not have been sufficiently dis- tinctive and separate to give a clear conception of their relationship. A careful study of the functions and of the peculiarities of the two systems as above outlined certainly raises a strong doubt as to the reliability of the embryo- logical view. Visceroptosis. See Entbroptosisj Liver, Diseases of (Hepatoptosis). Viscosity.—The state of being viscid or adhesive, e.g. the state of the blood which pre- cedes coagulation ; the " viscosity value " of the blood has been estimated at five times that of distilled water. See Blood. ViSCUm Album.—The mistletoe, re- cently recommended in arterio-sclerosis and in haemoptysis for the purpose of lowering the blood-pressure. ViSCUS. See Viscera. Vision, Tiie Field of. See also Brain, Physiology of (Sensoiy Centres); Brain, Tumours of {Symptoms, Sight); Chorea {Symp- toms, Sight); Colour Vision ; Eclampsia ; Eye, Examination of; Glaucoma {Symptoms, Im- pairment of Vision) ; Hypnotism {Special Senses) ; Hysteria {Sensory Disorders) ; Neph- ritis {General Diagnosis); Ocular Muscles, Affections of ; Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism (Vision, Cerebrum, Visual Centre). —For clinical purposes the field of vision is in- vestigated by the separate examination of each eye. Such e^camination may be carried out by the following methods :—■ I. For rapidly testing the periphery of the visual field the fingers of the examiner are used as the test-object. The patient is placed with his back toward the light, while the examiner, standing from one to two feet directly in front of him, carries out the test. If the patient's right eye is under examination, he is asked to cover the left eye, and to do so without either pressing upon the covered eye-ball or interfering with the vision of the other eye. The examiner, having closed his own right, fixes with his left eye the right eye of the patient, while the patient fixes with his right eye the left of his examiner. In this way continued accuracy of fixation on the part of the patient is ensured, and the examiner is enabled to use the periphery of his own visual field as the standard of com- parison. To complete the test the examiner determines the extreme limits of his own field by carrying his moving finger-tips from beyond these limits inwards, in the various meridians, and always in a vertical plane, which bisects the common line of fixation. In each of the principal meri- dians the presence, or absence, of coincidence in the extent of peripheral vision is ascertained by asking the patient when he first sees the finger- tips. In this way the presence of a defect in the periphery of the field of vision may be rapidly ascertained, but the extent and nature of such defect can only be determined with accuracy by means of the perimeter. II. The perimeter is an instrument with which the field of vision may be examined throughout, that is to say, both as to its periphery, its centre, and the whole intervening area. The instru- ment consists essentially of a graduated arc along which the test-object is carried. The arc is capable of rotation through all the meridians. Eye Eight. Chart 1.—Test object 20 sq. mm. After Baas. Fixation point; ilf=Mariotte's blind spot. By the use of an adjustable chin-rest the patient's eye under examination is maintained in position at the centre of the circle of which the graduated arc forms a part. The fixation object is attached to the pivot on which the arc revolves. As each meridian is examined the position of the test-object is marked upon the chart which is attached to the back of the in- strument. Each chart represents the interior of a hemi- sphere drawn on the flat. The radiating lines show the meridians in which the examination may be carried out, while the concentric circular lines, which are numbered in degrees from the centre outwards, show the extent or limit of the field in any particular direction. An irregularly oval line, which is traced over the chart, shows the normal average boundary line of the field of vision. The preceding complete chart shows the field of vision for white and also for colours in the normal eye. III. The examination of the visual field, ac- cording to Bjerrum's method, with small white