519 WATER slimy organic matter which forms upon the surface of the sand. (2) That if this surface be removed by scraping, or its continuity affected in any way, as by the freezing of the surface, the number of bacteria which pass through the filtering material increases considerably; in fact, both cholera and typhoid germs may pass in sufficient numbers to cause an epidemic amongst those who use the imperfectly filtered water. (3) That water should not pass through the filters at a rate exceeding two million gallons per acre daily. (4) That after a filter bed has been scraped, water should be allowed to stand upon it for at least twenty-four hours, to allow of the slime depositing before filtration is commenced, and that the water which first passes through should not be allowed to reach the pure water reservoir. He also asserts that filtered water containing more than 100 germs, capable of development, in a cubic centimetre should not be considered as sufficiently pure for distribution. Many inventors have patented processes for purifying water on a large scale without re- course to sand filtration, as this not only requires the exercise of great care, but neces- sitates the possession of considerable areas of land for the construction of filters. These machines may be useful under certain circum- stances, but of the many which I have examined not one produced results which could be com- pared with efficient sand filtration. Domestic supplies may be purified in various ways. Where the impurities to be removed are of mineral origin, fine sand, clay, etc., or vegetable growths occurring in an otherwise unimpeachable source of supply, there are many filters which are efficient. If, on the other hand, there is the slightest suspicion of sewage contamination, the only safe methods of purifi- cation are (a) boiling, (6) filtration through materials which will remove all bacteria. Boil- ing for a few minutes destroys all disease-pro- ducing organisms, and is therefore thoroughly reliable. The only filters which can be relied upon to remove all bacteria are Pasteur's and the Berkfeld candles. These are hollow cylin- ders of porcelain (Pasteur) or compressed kiesel- guhr (Berkfeld), and the water in passing through the walls of the filter leaves the organ- isms and other sedimentary matter, usually slimy in character, on the surface of the filter. The Pasteur is the more reliable, and being harder is more durable than the Berkfeld, but it filters much more slowly, and is practically useless unless the water can be put under pressure. By employing a large number of cylinders, a so-called battery, a slight pressure will suffice. With the Berkfeld the same result can be obtained with little or no pressure, but the pores being more open the action of the filter cannot be relied upon for as great a length of time. Moreover, when the cylinders are removed for cleansing, brushing and boiling in water, or I'oasting over a red fire, they are more liable to fracture. A number of forms of these filters are made for attaching to taps, pumps, cisterns, etc. All the ordinary forms of domestic filter are practically useless for removing bac- teria, they are simply fine straiiiers, and may produce a bright and sparkling water contain- ing even more bacteria than the original un- filtered water. Equally good results can be obtained from a filter costing but a few pence, and made by filling a flower-pot with layers of fine gravel and sand. Dr. Bond, Medical Officer of Health for the Gloucestershire Combined Districts, has recently introduced a " floating film " filter, which consists of a cage of fine wire surrounded by a film of porous material, which can be obtained at about one shilling each, and fresh mantles or films at Id. to 2d. each. The rate of filtration can be controlled. They cer- tainly remove all visible suspended matter better even than many high-priced filters, but they cannot be depended upon to remove bac- teria however slow the filtration. Very hard waters may often be softened economically, and during the process a certain amount of bacterial purification is effected. This hardness depends upon the presence of salts of calcium and magnesium, usually car- bonates and sulphates. The carbonates being held in solution by carbonic acid are precipi- tated by boiling, which drives off" the carbonic acid. The hardness so removed is called " tem- porary." The hardness due to the sulphates not being removable by boiling, is called " per- manent." The softening process consists in the addition of lime water, or of soda ash in solu- tion, to the water. The free alkali combines with the carbonic acid, and the calcium carbonate is thrown down (CaCOgjCOj-f CaO = 2CaC03). When soda ash is used the sul- phates are also decomposed (MgSO^ -f- NagCOg = MgCOg -f- NagSO^), so that both the temporary and permanent hardness are reduced. The carbonates in separating carry down with them many of the suspended bacteria, hence not only is the water softened, bvit bacterially purified. Water which contains so much of the calcium and magnesium salts as to produce an insoluble curd with soap are called hard, whilst those which form little or no curd and lather freely are called soft. There is no doubt that a soft water is far more economical and better adapted for domestic purposes than a hard water. It economises soap, is better adapted for tea- making and general culinary purposes, does not fur boilers, and minimises labour in washing, but there is no evidence that it is more beneficial to health. The Royal Commission on Water- Supply went fully into the question of the effect of hard and soft water upon health, and concluded that " where the chief sanitary con- ditions prevail with tolerable uniformity, the