TUBERCULOSIS 129 The acute broncho-pneumonic nodules may possess no giant cells, but the later process spreading along the lymphatics (Hamilton) shows a giant-celled lesion. In older children and in adults this caseated area tends to break down to form a cavity containing tuberculous pus and necrotic tissue, which becomes evacuated through the bronchus. In children broncho-pneumonic nodules, all of recent date and varying in size up to a diameter of a quarter of an inch, may be scattered throughout the whole organ, the lung between being congested and vesicular. These nodules can readily be felt on passing the hand into the pleural cavity on opening the thorax. Those near the surface are roughly pyramidal in shape, with their base to the pleural surface. The nodules may be more numerous near the apex, but softening and excavation is not so commonly met with as in the adult. Occasionally in children large areas of a lobe or the whole of a lobe become consolidated and caseous, presenting a more or less uniform greyish or yellowish colour. The term caseous pneu- monia is sometimes applied to this condition. In the adult the characters are diflferent. The disease usually at first attacks the lung a short distance below the apex. This localisation near the apex is probably due to that being the least expansive part of the lung. The air stagnates, and tubercle bacilli are more likely to grow and develop in such circumstances (Coats). From the apex it extends downwards through the lung, so that the oldest lesions are to be found near the apex or in the lower lobes near their upper part, and the more recent farther down ; the extreme base may be vesi- cular and healthy to the unaided eye. The process, moreover, goes farther, so that softening of the caseated areas occurs, and the pus is discharged through the bronchi, forming the expectoration of pulmonary tuberculosis. This process results in "excavation" or "cavi- tation." The softened material tends to become disseminated throughout the bronchial tree, giving rise to fresh broncho-pneumonic nodules in the same lung; or later, may in a similar manner cause infection of the sound lung. In addition the process sets free bacilli, which spread along the lymphatics, so that lymphatic miliary tubercles frequently coexist along with the broncho-pneumonic. These can usually be distinguished by careful inspection. Once more, lymphatic spread may pre- dominate, but in such a case the primary lesion is usually less acute. Briefly, the " picture " of a spreading broncho- pneumonic tuberculosis—the common pulmon- ary phthisis—is as follows :— Extreme base — congested, vesicular, free from tubercles, or with a few small irregular clusters of grey tubercles, either early broncho- pneumonic or lymphatic. VOL. X Above this these have coalesced to form greyish masses, which in their centres are practically non-vascular. Still higher they have become uniform, firm, non-vascular, yellow and caseating in the centre, grey at the periphery. Higher still softening is beginning in the centre. At the apex one or more recent cavities of varying size are seen, their walls irregular, rough, and lined with necrotic caseous material, the cavity communicating with a bronchus, the surface of which may be—usually is—congested and ulcerated. If the cavity be large ridges are seen on the walls, or bridges cross it, representing the more resistant septa, bronchi, or blood-vessels. If the process take a favourable course a layer of vascular granulation tissue forms on the wall. The caseous material becomes cast off, and the irregularities smoothed down. Later still the granulation tissue becomes fully developed to form fibrous tissue, and we now find a healed cavity with smooth, thin, fibrous walls. In course of time this tends to contract, and the walls to become dense and pigmented. The expectoration in the early stages is com- posed of mucus with more or less numerous leucocytes, and large catarrhal epithelial cells with one or more nuclei. Later, these undergo fatty degeneration, and the sputum also con- tains elastic tissue. Bacilli are present in all stages. Pleurisy.—Reaction also takes place in most cases in the pleura over extensively diseased areas of the lungs, and is usually simply an extension of the disease. The pleurisy may be fibrinous, sero-fibrinous, purulent, or hsemor- rhagic. It may show grey tubercles or caseous points, most easily detected on the inter-lobar or diaphragmatic pleui-a, or these may not be evident to the naked eye, though demonstrable under the microscope. In chronic stages the pleura becomes greatly thickened and its layers adherent. It may occur without tuberculosis of the lung, spreading from the peritoneum or from a caseous mediastinal gland. Tuberculosis, in man, is rarely primary in the pleura. Chronic Pulmonary Tuberculosis. — The acute forms may become chronic, or the changes may be chronic from the outset. In the latter case the bacilli are less virulent, the dose is smaller, or perhaps, most important of all, the individual possesses greater resisting power. The tuberculous process is always tending to heal by encapsulation with fibrous tissue. The outer layers of the tubercle become progressively fibrous, and the process consequently becomes quiescent. No special description of chronic phthisis or "fibroid phthisis" is necessary. The process is essentially the same as that described in the acute disease, but it is 9