34 TONGUE way, and tuberculous debris escapes, leaving an open sore. This sore may take the form of a short, narrow, deep fissure, with thickened, over- hanging edges, which ultimately caseate and break down and leave a tuberculous ulcer. Less frequently the epithelium around the fissure is raised into folds, and gives to the nodule a papillomatous appearance. Before the nodule breaks it is liable to be mistaken for a syphilitic gumma, while after the fissure has formed it may simulate a can- cerous ulcer. The treatment of these forms of tuberculous disease is to excise a V-shaped segment of the tongue, cutting wide of the disease. The edges of the wound are then united with sutures, and as a rule primary union occurs if the mouth be kept sweet by the frequent use of an antiseptic wash. The ulcerative form is that most frequently met with clinically. It is usually merely a further stage of the nodular form, the ulcer having been produced by the caseation and breaking down of a nodule in the tongue. The surface of the ulcer is uneven, pale, and flabby, and is covered with a yellowish grey layer of coagulated mucus, with here and there feeble granulations showing through. The edges are sharply defined, sinuous in outline, and as a rule show little or no induration. Around the ulcer there may be seen several small miliary tubercle nodules, and the tissues of the tongue are usually swollen. The ulcers vary greatly in depth, in some cases being quite superficial, in others eating deeply into the muscular sub- stance of the tongue. The tip of the tongue may be completely eaten away, so that it looks as if it had been cut across with a knife. At first there may be comparatively little pain, but as the disease advances the pain becomes severe, and there is profuse salivation. The submaxillary glands are usually, but not always, enlarged. The diagnosis is, as a rule, rendered easy by the presence of other evidence of tuberculous infection When no such evidence is forth- coming, it is extremely difficult to distinguish between tuberculous and tertiary syphilitic and cancerous ulcers. A microscopic examination of a portion cut out from the edge of the ulcer may be of some help, particularly in regard to malignant disease. The effects of treatment by iodide of potassium and mercury are not to be relied upon for diagnostic purposes. The prognosis is on the whole very unfavour- able, in view of the frequency with which the patient suffers from other advanced tuberculous lesions. The ulcer may, under suitable treat- ment, improve, or even heal, but it is very liable to break down again. Treatment.—Primary ulcers should be treated in the same way as tuberculous nodules—by excising a V-shaped portion of the tongue. Even in cases where other tuberculous lesions are present the operation is often justifiable for the relief of pain and to enable the patient to take nourishment. The wound in the tongue must be accurately sutured, and every possible effort made to secure primary luiion, otherwise the raw surface may become reinfected from the sputum. When operation is impracticable it is only possible to palliate the symptoms by attending to the hygiene of the mouth, and removing all sources of irritation. Pain may be relieved by the application of ointment con- taining cocaine or morphia. Syphilitic Affections of the Tongue.— Syphilitic aff"ections of the tongue are exceedingly common, and the disease may show itself in so many forms that, as Butlin says, " there is hardly any affection of the tongue in which the possibility of syphilis should not be taken into account in making the diagnosis." The primary sore of syphilis is very seldom met with on the tongue in this country. The most common sources of infection are tobacco pipes, the blow-pipes of glass blowers, and similar implements, and spoons, forks, or drink- ing cups which have been used by syphilitic persons. Direct infection may, of course, occur from kissing. The sore presents the same general characters on the tongue as on other parts of the body. The submaxillary lymphatic glands are markedly enlarged on one or on both sides. The generalised secondary manifestations of syphilis usually appear early when infection takes place on the tongue. The local secondary manifestation most fre- quently met with on the tongue is the mucous patch. This is very common, particularly in the later periods of the secondary stage. Mucous patches may appear on any part of the tongue, but are most common on its edges, where they form smooth, irregular, greyish white areas of a rounded or oval outline. If the thin white layer be removed a smooth red surface is exposed. When situated on the under surface of the tongue the patches fre- quently assume a condylomatous or warty appearance. If they are irritated by the teeth or by the passage of food over them, they may become cracked, or even deeply ulcerated. As the secretion from mucous patches is highly contagious the patient should always be warned of the danger of using spoons, cups, pipes, or other articles, in common with those with whom he lives or works. Kissing must also be avoided. If left untreated the surface of a mucous patch may break down and leave a tortuous or stellate fissure or ulcer which tends slowly to increase iu width and depth. The edges are punched out and undermined, the base raw, sloughy, and devoid of granulations, and the soi"e is exceedingly tender. After healing, these sores leave puckered scars of a silvery or leaden hue.