117 TROPICS, THE UNCLASSED FEVERS OF THE ever, which seems to have the most marked beneficial effect is the subcutaneous injection of large quantities of normal saline solution. This treatment is said to have resulted in the re- covery of fifty-five consecutive cases so treated. Its effect is probably a mechanical one, that of clearing the renal tubuli blocked with haemo- globin infarcts, and increasing the blood-pres- sure (Gouzien, XIIP Congres Internat. de Med., Sous-section, Med. Coloniale, p. 155). TropidonotUS NatriX. See Snake- Bite IN THE British Isles {Species of Serpent). Tropometer. — An instrument for measuring the rotations of the eyeball or the amount of torsion of long bones (Gr. Tpoirrj, a turn). Trough Closet.—A form of urinal for public use, in which the urine accumulates in a trough containing water which is periodically flushed by an automatic apparatus. See Sewage AND Drainage {Closets, Fig. 8). Trousseau's Disease.—Vertigo due to stomach disorder. Trousseau's Marks.—The "taches cerebrales " seen in tuberculous meningitis and some other maladies of the nervous system. See Tache and Cross References. Trousseau's Symptom.—The fact that in tetany, so long as the attack is not over, one may reproduce the paroxysms by pressing the parts affected so as to interfere with the blood-supply or to compress the nerve trunks. See Tetany {Motor Symptoms). True.—Real, not spurious, as in such ex- pressions as t7'ue pelvis (the pelvis below the plane of the brim), t7-ue skin (the corium), true rib (one attached directly to the sternum an- teriorly), and true corpus luteum, etc. True image is the image formed upon the normal eye in diplopia, that on the affected eye being called the false. See Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism {Binocular Vision). Trusses. See Hernia {Treatment, Trusses). Trypanosoma. See Sleeping Sick- ness {Cause); Parasites {Mastigophora). Trypanosomiasis.—The diseased condition due to the presence of the trypano- soma (any species) in the blood. See Sleeping Sickness. Trypsin.—The proteolytic enzyme or fer- ment of the pancreas; it has been lauded as a remedy for malignant disease, but its bene- ficial effect has not been fully established ; indeed it has rather seemed as if it had more effect upon tubercle than upon cancer (in some re- cently reported observations). See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Pancreatic Secretion); Enzymes (Trypsin); Pancreas, Physiology op {Enzymes); Snake-Bites {In Cobra Poisoning); Temperature {Causes of Fever, Subcutaneous Injection of Trypsin). Trypsi nog'en. — The antecedent of trypsin. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Pancreatic Secretion). Tryptophane. See Physiology, Food AND Digestion {Pancreatic Secretion, Action). Tscherning^S Theory. See Accom- modation {Theories); Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Physiology of. Accommodation). Tsetse Fly. See Parasites {Trypanosoma Brucei); Sleeping Sickness. Tubal.—Belonging to a tube, especially to the tubules of the kidney and to the Fallopian or Eustachian tubes ; e.g. tubal pregnancy, tubal disease, etc. See Ectopic Gestation {Tubal Pregnancy); Mole, Molar Pregnancy {Tubal Mole) ; Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis {Diag- nosis from Ruptured Tubal Pregnancy); Preg- nancy, Affections of Generative Organs {Re- troversion of Gravid Uterus, Diagnosis). Tube.—A hollow, cylindrical structure, such as the Eustachian or Fallopian tube in anatomy, or the glass, indiarubber, or metal tubes used for drainage, for forced feeding, tracheotomy, etc. Tube-Casts. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Urinary Sediments, Casts). Tuber.—A projection or rounded swelling (plural, tubera) such as the tuber cinereum, the tubera ischii, and the tubera mentalia of anatomy. Tubercle.—A small tuber or projection, such as the deltoid tubercle on the clavicle, the tubercles of Montgomery in the areola round the nipple of the breast, and the subcutaneous tubercles of rheumatism ; also the specific lesion produced by the tubercle bacillus. See Tuber- culosis. TuberCUla.—The plural of tuberculum, a tubercle (q.v.). Tubercular.—Having the shape or ap- pearance of a tubercle, or, more frequently, being of the nature of tuberculosis, and characterised by the presence of the tubercle bacillus. See TuRERCULOSis ; Meningitis, Tuberculous ; etc. Tuberculide.—A cutaneous disease re- garded as due to the toxinic products of the tubercle bacillus. T U be rc UI i n.—Koch'slymph. See Tuber- culosis {Chemistry and Chemical Products of the Tubercle Bacillus).