VARICELLA 419 eruption of measles and chicken-pox " in Lancet, 5th Nov. 1898. Trousseau states, on the authority of Dr. Delpech, that a child had smallpox and chicken- pox together. Prognosis is good. The disease is not a dangerous one. It is popularly regarded as a very trifling ailment. It is to be borne in mind, however, that varicella is sometimes attended by pretty severe symptoms. The writer has seen children with mai'ked pyrexia, pronounced constitutional disturbance, and in misery. And in delicate and unhealthy children we must not lose sight of the possibility of further trouble in the shape of prurigo—ulceration and gangrenous sloughing. The Pathology of this disease is very meagre. As death from uncomplicated chicken-pox is practically unknown, opportunities for investiga- tion do not occur. Treatment.—The treatment of an ordinary case may be comprised in warmth, slop diet, attention to the bowels, and, perhaps, the ad- ministration of a diaphoretic. Relations to Public Health. Prevention. —As varicella is not a fatal disease, it might be considered unworthy of the attention of sanitary authorities. This, however, is far from being a correct view. All cases of chicken-pox should be made known to the medical officer of health, because a mild case of smallpox may be mistaken for chicken-pox, and so escape the control which is necessary for the public safety. This danger is not an imaginary, but a real one. " It is stated that the Chicago case, which was the starting-point in Montreal of the epidemic of 1885, was regarded as varicella, and not isolated. If so, the mistake was one which led to one of the most fatal of modern outbreaks of the dis- ease " (Osier). Cases of varioloid, if seen in the crusted stage, and with only a few spots, are liable to be passed over as varicella, especially if the patients deny having felt ill, and cannot be associated with smallpox cases. Varicella may prevail in epidemic form, and, although not dangerous, may give rise to much trouble and disorganisation in schools, hospitals, nursing homes, etc. The writer can recall annoying experiences from outbreaks of the disease occurring in the wards of a fever hospital. When cases cropped up in measles, scarlet fever, or whopping-cough wards, no end of trouble and worry was the result. The children who took the disease in hospital could not be sent home till all the crusts were off, and those who did not take it had to be detained for a fortnight at least (in- cubation period) before being dismissed. And how did such outbreaks originate 1 A child admitted with measles or scarlet fever might have a few little scabs among the hair which unfortunately were not immediately re- cognised as chicken-pox crusts, the result being the infection of the ward, with fresh cases cropping up in a tantalising fashion one or two at a time with a fortnight's interval. This might go on for months, till all the suscep- tible children had taken the chicken-pox. The disease seemed to increase in severity in the successive cases, as if the virus gained in in- tensity. The writer has also seen the work of a surgical nursing home totally disorganised, and heavy expenditure incurred, all through the occurrence of chicken-pox in a patient who was admitted to the institution in the incubation stage. Prevention.—The measures taken to prevent the spread of smallpox are applicable to varicella. The patient should be isolated in a bare room with a special nurse. When all the crusts have separated he should have several warm baths, and get a complete suit of fresh clothing before regaining his liberty. Crusts among the hair must not be overlooked. The sick-room should be washed down and repapered, while all clothing and bedding should be disinfected, either by steam or boiling. While the patient is under treatment it is a good plan to put all soiled linen at once under a disinfectant solution [e.g. carbolic acid and water). V£LriCOCele.—Dilatation of the veins of the spermatic cord causing a swelling in the scrotum; also, swelling of the veins of the broad ligament in the female. See Pelvis, Diseases of Cellular Tissue {Tumours of Broad Ligament); Hernia {Inguinal Diagnosis); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Varicocele). Varicose.—in a state of varix or vari- cosity, having a dilated and tortuous appear- ance, e.g. varicose veins; or, having an origin in a varicose vein, e.g. a varicose ulcer. See Constipation {Symptoms); Filariasis ( Varicose Inguinxd Glands); Gout {Circulatory System); H^matemesis (Causes) ; Lungs, Vascular Dis- orders {Pulmonary Embolism, Causes); Preg- nancy, Physiology {External Genitals, Vari- cosity) ; Pregnancy, Causes of Death ; Ulcers AND Ulceration {Due to Imperfect Circulation); Veins, Diseases of (Varicose Veins). Variola.. See Smallpox and Cross Refer- ences. Varioloid. — Resembling smallpox, or smallpox modified by vaccination or inocula- tion ; a mild form of smallpox. See Smallpox {Clinical Variations, Varioloid). *'Varium."—The name given by Bur- roughs Wellcome & Co. to their preparation of ovarian substance; it is recommended, in 5-grain doses, in amenorrhoea and dysmenorrhoea and in troubles at the menopause (natural or induced).