TYPHOID FEVER 182 but the morning temperature rises one day later than the evening (having commenced a day later), and there results a morning tempera- ture of 102° or 103° or 104° and an evening temperature of 103° or 104° or 105° according to the severity of the attack. Exceptions to this gradual mode of rise occur. Not very uncommonly the rise of temperature is abrupt, reaching 103° or 104° in the first twenty-four hours. Sometimes, especially in children, the temperature may, though daily increasing, drop to normal during some part of each day, and in very rare cases the invasion has been without pyrexia, as has the whole course of the disease. Headache usually comes on early, slight or of any degree of severity ; usually frontal, rarely occipital or all over the head, or it may extend down the neck; a tensive dull pain with some- times acute paroxysms ; it usually lasts through the invasion period into the real period, but may cease earlier. Convulsions are very rare. Einstaxis occurs in about half the cases, once or repeatedly, slight or considerable. Chills rarely, rigors may occur; deafness may be an early symptom. Discomfort, rarely pain, tenderness, and gurg- ling in the right iliac fossa may occur, and laxity of hoxvels is common. There is usually a feeling of languor and weakness, and the patient thinks he has " caught a chill" or got a " bilious attack." Tonsillitis may be an early symptom. The onset instead of being gradual may be very abrupt, with sudden pyrexia, nausea, re- peated vomiting, and pains in the abdomen, simulating acute peritonitis or gastritis. Or it may begin with high fever, chills, profuse sweats, headache, and signs of severe bronchial catarrh, simulating acute tubercular phthisis. Other cases begin with symptoms and signs— apical or basic—of acute croupous pneumonia. Some such cases are due to the bacillus typhosus, and have been called " pneumotyphoid." Again, the initial symptoms may be severe headache, vomiting, high fever, retraction of head, vomiting, convulsions, and delirium. Usu- ally these symptoms soon subside, being toxic only ; but in others they persist and are due to actual meningitis, other signs of which, such as squint, paralysis, become evident later. The bacillus typhosus is accountable for some such cases which have been called "cerebral typhoid." Occasionally the disease begins with acute maniacal delirium orwith "confusional insanity," marking other evidences of the disease, and such patients have in consequence been sent to asylums. In a few cases typhoid begins with symptoms of acute nephritis with blood and albumen in the urine, and other evidences of typhoid be- come marked later. These cases have been called " nephro-typhoid." And cases are described by Salamon begin- ning with acute pleurisy due to infection of the typhoid bacillus—pleuro-typhoid. Symptoms of the established (Hsease are con- tinuous with those of the invasion, gradual or abrupt as the case may be : the diarrhoea and headache continuing, the patient becoming more languid and weak, and eventually taking to bed at a date depending on the severity of the attack, the disposition of the patient, and the advice he receives or follows. When the onset is abrupt he may take to bed at once, but more often it is only after three or four days or a week, when the disease is suspected rather than diagnosed, sometimes much later, when he is quite exhausted, and in the "latent" form he may keep about even after perforation has occurred. Alimentary Canal.—The tongue, at first moist and slightly furred, tends to gradually get more thickly coated, and after fifteen or sixteen days may get dry brown, baked, or even fissured, sometimes bleeding. If the temperature does not fall after about twenty-one days, tenacious exudation may collect around it, and it becomes difficult of protrusion ; in general it tends to become dry much in proportion to the amount of diarrhoea. The tongue usually begins to clean and become moist as the temperature falls and convalescence comes on, but it may do so much earlier, cleaning entirely at the end of eight or ten days, though the disease runs on for the usual period. The tongue may be clean throughout even in fatal cases. Sometimes it becomes glazed and smooth. Sordes are apt to occur on teeth and lips, which are often sore and bleed from picking. Herpes on the lips or face is very rare without pneumonia or rigors. The pharynx and palate may in severe cases become coated by a whitish exudation like thrush or diphtheritic membrane, and containing chiefly streptococci and staphylococci. The breath has usually a characteristic odour even early in the disease; thirst is common, especially when pyrexia or diarrhoea or melsena is severe. Anorexia comes on early, lessening with defervescence, and before there is apyrexia the craving for solid food may become very great. Hydrochloric acid is deficient in the gastric juice; nausea and retching may, as al- ready said, Ibe initial symptoms, or they may come on later from peritonitis with or without perforation, from uraemia or other causes; the stomach is apt to become much distended from the liquid diet, recumbent position, and impaired digestive processes. Tympanites is usually little marked during the first few days, and may be moderate through- out, or may become extreme, gradually or suddenly. Sometimes the tympanitic belly is tense and dnun-like ; in other cases is soft and doughy, muscle tonus being apparently lost