WEIR MITCHELL'S METHOD 525 Weir Mitchell's Method.-The treatment of neurasthenia and hysteria by isolation, rest, systematic feeding, passive exer- cises, and massage. See Neurasthenia (Treat- ment) ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium (Treatment, Rest and Exercise). Weismann's Theory.—The theory of the continuity of the germ plasm in heredity ; a deduction follows that acquired characters cannot be transmitted. See Heredity. Weissen bu rg^. See Balneology (Switzerland, Calcareous Waters). WeiSS'S Reflex.—A reflex observable in cases of myopia. WeiSS'S SlgTI. — The occurrence, in tetany, hysteria, neurasthenia, and other dis- eases, of contraction of the facial muscles on light percussion. Weitbrecht's Cartilage.—The oc- casional interarticular cartilage of the acromio- clavicular joint. Weitbrecht's Cord. —The orbicular ligament of the elbow joint. Welcker'S Angle. — An angle (or angles) used in craniometry, e.g. the nasal angle and the naso-basal angle. Wei Is' Facies or Sign.—The peculiar physiognomy of a patient suffering from ovarian disease ; named after Sir Spencer Wells. Weisbach Burner.— The incandes- cent burner for coal gas in lighting. Wemyss Bay. See Therapeutics, Health Eesorts (Scotland). Werlhofs Disease. — Purpura hfe- morrhagica. See Purpura (Werlhofs). Wernicke's Centre.—The auditory word centre in the first temporo-sphenoidal convolution of the cerebrum. See Brain, Physi- ology (Functions of Cerebral Cortex, Word- Hearing Centre). Wernicke's Disease. — Polioence- phalitis acuta hsemorrhagica. Wernicke's Fissure.—The exoccipi- tal fissure of the cei'ebrum. Wernicke's Reaction. — Hemiopic inaction of the pupil. See Eye, Clinical Examination of (Anterior Chamber, Hemian- opia, Wernicke's Sign); Pupil (Nervous Mechan- ism) ; Vision, Field op (Hemianopia). West indies. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts. Weston-Super-Mare. See Thera- peutics, Health Resorts (English). Westphal's Nucleus.—The small grey nucleus supposed to supply the sphincter pupillae muscle; it lies below the aqueduct of Sylvius in the brain. Westphal's Paradoxical Con- traction.—A peculiar form of contraction of a muscle met with in paralysis agitans, alcoholism, tabes dorsalis, etc.; it consists in the fact that the muscle contracts when its ends are passively approximated, thus the tibialis anticus contracts when the foot is passively flexed. Westphal's Sign.—The absence of the patellar reflex in tabes dorsalis, neuritis, and some other diseases of the nervous system. See Tabes Dorsalis (Symptomatology, Reflexes). West Virginia. See Balneology (America and Canada, Sulphur Waters). Wet-Nursing. See Infant Feeding (Wet-Nursing); New-born Infant (Feeding, Methods). Wet Pack. See Hydropathy (Packs); Puerperium, Pathology of (Septicemia, Treat- ment). Wetzel's Test.—A test for the presence of carbon monoxide in blood ; water and tannic acid solution are added to the suspected blood, which becomes carmine red if carbon monoxide is present. Weyl'S Test.—If creatinin be present in urine, the addition of a few drops of a solution of sodium nitro-prusside causes a ruby - red colour changing into green and blue on the addition of a solution of sodium hydrate; also three tests for the detection of nitric acid in urine are named Weyl's Tests A, B, and C. Weymouth. /S'ee Therapeupics, Health Resorts (English). Wharton's Duct,—The excretory duct of the submaxillary salivary gland. See Sali- vary Glands, Disorders of (Anatomy); Mouth, Diseases of (Floor of the Mouth, Ranula). Wharton's Jelly.—The mucoid tissue of the umbilical cord of the foetus. See F(etus and Ovum, Development (Umbilical Cord). Wheals. See Urticaria (Symptoms); Pruritus (Consequejices of the Pruritic State). Wheelhouse's Operation. — A form of external urethrotomy for stricture. See Urethra, Diseases of (Stricture, Treatment, External Urethrotomy). Wheezing. See Asthma (Symptoms) ; Bronchi, Bronchitis (Physical Signs). Whey. See Atrophy, Infantile (Treat- ment) ; Infant Feeding (Milk Preparations,