488 VITAL STATISTICS tion of the entire country, and of each town or district, is estimated. Various methods of estimating the population have been adopted :— (1) If a strict record of emigration and immi- gration be kept, then, in a country in which a complete registration of births and deaths is enforced, the population can be easily ascertained by balancing the natural increase by excess of births over deaths, and the increase or decrease due to migration. This is done in New Zealand, but is impracticable in England, as no complete account of migration can be kept. (2) The increase of inhabited houses in a district being known year by year, the increase of population may be estimated on the assump- tion that the number of persons per house is the same as at the last census. This may not be strictly accurate. In 1901 it was found that in England and Wales the average number of persons per house was less than in 1891. (3) It may be assumed that the annual in- crease during the present decennium will be one-tenth of the increase during the last decen- nium, 1891-1901. If so, the population, e.g. 1905, is the enumerated population in 1901 plus 4| times the annual increase occurring during 1881-1891. (The fourth is required because the census is taken early in April, and the population is estimated to the middle of the year.) This method is fallacious, because it makes no allowance for the steadily increasing numbers who year by year attain marriageable age and become parents. It assumes, in other words, simple interest where compound interest is in operation. (4) The Registrar-General's method, the one generally adopted, assumes that the same rate of increase vvill hold good as in the preceding intercensal period, i.e. that the population in- creases in geometrical progression, and not in aritlmietical progression as under (3). The application of this method will be best under- stood by an example :— If the census population of a town is 32,000 in 1891, and 36,000 in 1901, what is the mean po})ulation in 190.")' [n) Find the, rate of increase in 1891-1901. If P = population at census 1891 and = population at census 1901, and if R = rate of increase of population, then P' = P + R" in the ?ith year. log. pi = Iog. P+10 log. W. iV(log. Pi-log. P) = log. R. 4-556303-4-505150 , „ — = 0051153 = log. R. (6) Apply this to the increase in the next 4J years. Here P,fl05 = Pi9oiR"'' log- Pj905 = *'556303+-(-0051153) 4 = 4-578043. By consulting the table of logs, the population corresponding to this number will be found to be 37,848 = population at tlie middle of 1905. Estimates made by the last-named " official " method are liable to error even when made for the entire country, and still more when applied to special districts. Thus the decennial rate of increase of the population of England and Wales in 100 years has varied from 15-8 per cent in 1821-31 to 12-4 in 1891-1901. The anomalies are even greater when the official method is applied to great towns. In one decennium such a town may, owing to brisk trade, have a i-apid increase of working popula- tion with many children, and in the next decennium, in consequence of emigration or transmigration, there may be little or no increase. The declining birth-rate, which is having a greater effect on the number of popu- lation than the declining death-rate, is another cause of disturbance which increases the diffi- culty in forming a correct estimate of popula- tion in intercensal periods. A quinquennial census is highly desirable in order to avoid the doubts necessarily associated with estimates of population in the later years of a decennium, and the birth- and death-rates which are based on these estimates. The Registration of Births and Deaths.— Civil registration of births and deaths began in 1837, but was not compulsory until 1870. It would be going beyond the scope of this article to give details of the enactments as to registration. It suffices to state that it is the duty of the practitioner to give a certificate stating the cause of death of his patient to the best of his knowledge and belief. There is no registration of still-births in this country. Many deaths are registered of which the cause of death is not medically certified, and the value of our national vital statistics is considerably dimin- ished on this account. Much improvement is desirable in the medical certification of causes of death. Every medical student ought to receive instruction on this subject before the completion of his studies. Names of symptoms, as dropsy, hremorrhage, convulsions, and obscure names, as abdominal disease, should be avoided. If the patient has recently suffered from injury, or recently passed through child-birth, or had a specific febrile disease, this must not be omitted from the certificate. The Registration and Notification of Sick- ness forms another valuable source of informa- tion. Various attempts have been made to secure a general registration of disabling sick- ness, but with only partial success. District and workhouse medical officers appointed since February 1879 are required to fui-nish the medical officer of health with returns of pauper sickness and deaths. This source of information might, with advantage, be more fully utilised by medical officers of health. Section 29 of the Factory and Workshops Act 1895 requires that every medical practitioner attending on or called in to visit a patient whom he believes to be