TUMOUKS 163 contain gland spaces and sometimes well-formed Lieberkiihnian follicles. Another variety is situated between the rectum and the sacrum ; some of these are undoubtedly teratomata. A third and rarer variety takes the form of a pedunculated skin-covered pilose tumour hang- ing from the mucous membrane of the rectum. 3. Moles {Dermoid Patches).—Moles are pigmented and usually hairy patches growing on the skin. They are congenital, or appear during the first few weeks after birth. These patches vary greatly in size; many are no bigger than split peas, whilst others cover an extensive area on the face, tnmk, the limbs, and even on the scalp. The common variety consists of a slightly raised brown patch ; it is sometimes quite black, and is as a rule pilose, the hair being short. The hairs are furnished with sebaceovis glands, and the skin often contains sweat-glands even when the mole is situated on the conjunctiva. The most striking feature in the histology of a mole is the fact that the tissue immediately underlying it is arranged in alveoli, like that described as characteristic of an alveolar sar- coma. Moles bleed freely when their surfaces are abraided, they are liable to ulcerate, and later in life are occasionally the sources of melano-sarcomata. They occur singly or in multiple, as many as fifty may occur on one individual; sometimes one mole may be so big as to cover half the trunk. Moles on the con- junctiva are often associated with defects in the eyelids, such as coloboma and total absence of the lids. Ovarian Dermoids.—Cystic tumours contain- ing skin and often furnished with the appen- dages of skin, such as hair, sebaceous and sweat- glands, teeth, horn, and bone, occur with excep- tional frequency in the ovary. In rare instances a mammary gland furnished with a nipple and areola has been met with, and also an organ which in structure resembled a thyroid gland. Many of the loculi in ovarian dermoids are lined with mucous membrane. These tumours may be unilocular or multilocular, and when the skin elements predominate the cavities are filled with a mixture of fat, sebum, shed hair, teeth, etc. When the loculus contains mucous membrane, then the cavity is filled with mucus of the con- sistence of thin jelly. In size ovarian dermoids vary greatly : some are no bigger than an orange, whilst others attain a weight of twenty or forty kilogrammes. The average dimensions of these tumours is that of a cocoanut. They occur at all periods of life, and have been met with in a child a year old and in a woman of eighty-three. There is no authentic observation of a dermoid in a new-born child. Some extraordinary theories have been advanced to account for these tumours in the ovaries, such as pathogenesis aud imperfect conceptions, etc., but very careful histological investigations of small specimens have shown that these tumours arise in that portion of the ovary in which the ova are lodged (the oophoron), and that the epithelial lining of the ovarian follicles is the source of the structures found in ovarian dermoids. These tumours are dangerous to life in a variety of ways, for they may lead to intestinal obstruction, they may off'er a great and some- times an impassable obstruction to the birth of a child, or they inflame and suppurate. Occasion- ally from its mere bulk an ovarian dermoid will interfere with the diaphragm, and compress the lung, death being due to interference with respiration. They are innocent tumours, and when removed have never been known to recur. Ovarian dermoids are often bilateral. Occasion- ally they burst into the general peritoneal cavity, and the epithelium may engraft itself on the peritoneum and form tiny dermoids. This phenomenon may be conveniently termed " epithelial infection." Teratomata.—Strictly the consideration of teratomata belongs to the department of path- ology known as Teratology, but some teratomata are very apt to be confounded with dermoids. In the majority of the specimens there is no difliculty, because a teratoma is an irregular conglomerate mass containing the tissues and segments of viscera of a suppressed foetus attached to an otherwise normal individual. Tumours of this character are common in the neighbourhood of the sacrum, and are known as one variety of the congenital sacro-coccygeal tumour ; they also occur around the cephalic termination of the notochord, and appear in the pituitary fossa or in the pharynx, either as sessile or pedunculated tumours. The rarest form of teratoma occurs as a retroperitoneal tumour. The variety of teratoma which it is most difficult to distinguish from a dermoid is that which appears as a skin-covered tumour in the nasopharynx or between the rectum and coccyx. All sequestration dermoids and all teratomata are congenital, but no one has observed a con- genital ovarian dermoid, and this is a dis- tinguishing feature of great significance in considering the pathology and pathogenesis of dermoids. Phantom Tumour.—This term is applied to a tumour which appears and disappears without any obvious reason. In the limbs a phantom tumour assumes the form of a smooth, uniform, resistent swelling ; it is generally painless, and usually subsides during sleep, to reappear when the patient wakes, but it always vanishes under deep anaesthesia. Phantom tumours occur in men, but they are commoner in women, in whom they assume the curious form of mimicry known as " spurious pregnancy " or pseudocyesis, but it simulates ovarian and other abdominal swellings as well as pregnancy.