ULCERS AND ULCERATION 213 and the nutrition of the skin is thereby inter- fered with. That the backward pressure of the column of venous blood and the retarded circulation through the veins are important factors in the causation of this variety of ulcer, is proved by the fact that healing only takes place if the patient is confined to bed and the limb elevated. So long as he is going about, all methods of treatment are equally futile, whereas improvement is evident at once if he remains recumbent. In a considerable number of cases, but by no means in all, this form of ulcer is associated with the presence of varicose veins, hence it is often spoken of as the varicose ulcer. The actual ulceration is usually determined by some slight injury or irritation which permits of septic infection of the devitalised skin. As dermatitis and eczema are common along the course of varicose veins, the scratching or rubbing of the part is very liable to break the surface and afford a point of entrance for bacteria. In other cases the ulcer is due to the bursting of a small periphlebitic abscess. When the ulcer is comparatively small and superficial the destructive process frequently spreads to the walls of the subjacent vessels, and leads to profuse and often dangerous bleed- ing. In large ulcers which have existed for a considerable time the adjacent veins usually become thrombosed, and may even be trans- formed into fibrous cords, so that haemorrhage in such cases is not a common complication. These " leg " or " varicose " ulcers are at first small and superficial, but from want of care, continued standing or walking, or injudicious treatment, they gradually become larger and deeper. They are not infrequently multiple, and this, together with their depth, may lead to their being mistaken for syphilitic ulcers. The base is covered with imperfectly formed, soft, oedematous granulations, which give off a thin, sero-purulent discharge. The edges show no evidence of healing, and are usually some- what inflamed. The surrounding parts are pig- mented and oedematous, and there is as a rule little pain. This variety of ulcer is particularly prone to pass into the condition known as " callous." Defective arterial supply is less frequently a cause of ulceration than defective venous return. An atheromatous condition of the minute vessels of the skin, especially in peripheral parts of the body, is apt to favour ulceration by diminishing the supply of arterial blood. In anjemic patients, especially young girls, ulcers are occasionally met with which have many of the characters of those associated with im- perfect venous return. They are very slow to heal, and are liable to pass into the condition known as " weak." 3. Ulcers due to Interference with Nerve-Supply. —Any interference with the nerve-supply of the superficial tissues predisposes to ulceration. For example, trophic ulcers are liable to occur in injuries or diseases of the spinal cord, in cere- bral paralysis, in infantile paralysis, in ascending or peripheral neuritis, or after injuries of nerve- trunks. As undue pressure is usually an associ- ated cause these ulcers are sometimes spoken of as pressure ulcers. As examples may be cited the ordinary pressure bed-sore (vol. i. p. 365), which in many cases occurs in patients suffer- ing from some nervous lesion, and the sore which results from the pressure of ill-adjusted splints. The acute bedrsore is a very rapidly progress- ing form of ulceration which occurs in patients who have had the trophic nerve-supply to the skin interfered with. The perforating ulcer of the foot is a peculiar type of sore which occiirs in association with different forms of peripheral neuritis, and with various lesions of the brain and spinal cord, such as general paralysis, locomotor ataxia, or syringo- myelia. It also occurs in patients suffering from glycosuria. Perforating ulcer is met with most frequently under the head of the meta- tarsal bone of the great toe of labouring men over forty years of age. A callosity forms, and suppuration occurs under it, the pus escaping through a small opening in the centre. The process slowly and gradually spreads deeper and deeper, till eventually the bone or joint is reached, and becomes implicated in the de- structive process—hence the term " perforating ulcer." Sometimes the flexor tendons are de- stroyed, and the toe is dorsiflexed by the un- opposed extensors. A few red, firm, wart-like granulations cover the base of the ulcer, and the cavity is filled with effete and decomposing epithelium thrown off from the ingrowing margins. The ulcer is often represented by a long, narrow sinus, and its true nature is liable to be overlooked. It is characteristic of per- forating ulcer that the raw surface is absolutely insensitive, and the sinus can be probed and handled without giving the patient the least discomfort. The chronic and intractable char- acter of these ulcers is due to the interference with the trophic nerve-supply of the part, and to the fact that the epithelium of the skin grows in and lines the tract leading down to the ulcer, and so prevents it closing. Perforating ulcers are sometimes met with on the sides or dorsum of the foot, or even on the hands and on other parts of the body where pressure is but seldom applied. It is to be borne in mind that other ulcei's occur in the foot under callosities inde- pendently of any nerve lesion. Although very slow to heal they do not show the same tendency to burrow and persist as the perforating ulcer does. 4. Ulcers due to ConstitutioTuil Causes.— Various constitutional dyscrasife favour the pro- duction of ulcers by diminishing the power of