96 TRADES, DANGEROUS deep maroon colour. When dinitrobenzine kills it is generally by inducing coma. The blood corpuscles disintegrate under its influence, and, as a consequence, oxygen fails to be taken into the system. Although chemical changes occur in the passage of these nitro compounds through the body, it is difficult to say what is the exact nature of these changes. In order to prevent dinitrobenzine-poisoning the workrooms should be airy and well venti- lated. The workmen should wear respirators; when handling the material gloves ought to be worn. Personal cleanliness is also most im- portant, and there should be the minimum hours of labour in such dangerous processes as grinding and the cleaning out of flues. Six hours a day spent in the rooms where the mixing is done and the cartridges are filled, are enough for any person. Since alcohol is known to increase the susceptibility to poisoning, stimulants ought to be avoided by men follow- ing this employment. There is no known anti- dote to dinitrobenzine ; but in the acute form of poisoning, inhalation of oxygen, the applica- tion of warmth to the surface of the body, careful administration of stimulants, and rest in the recumbent position until immediate danger from syncope has passed away, will be found very helpful. Risks attending the Manufacture AND Use of Explosives Unless the strictest precautions are observed there is no manufacture more dangerous to life than the manufacture of the so-called high explosives, e.g. nitroglycerine and gun-cotton, dynamite, roburite, lyddite, etc. Major Cooper Key, H.M. Inspector of Explosives, states that in ten years there were 44 workmen killed in explosives factories in Britain and 204 injured. No doubt many of the accidents were caused through carelessness, e.g. thawing of dynamite over the fire, scraping out of detonators with pins, etc., while in quarries and mines many of the accidents have been caused by driving dynamite into roughly drilled holes, boring out missfires, etc. In the actual manufacture of explosives the workmen run little risk to health. The risk is rather one of sudden mutilation from the severity of an explosion. Miners often complain of the effects of the fumes after an explosive cartridge has been fired in the pit. They suffer from severe head- ache, collapse, a sense of nervousness, muscular tremor, alternate flushing and paling of the face, followed by vomiting which often brings relief. When coal-miners are the subjects of chronic pulmonary or bronchial affections their breathing for the time is rendered difficult, and the men are so prostrated that they almost collapse. Since all explosives contain carbon, these when fired either in a sufficiency or in an excess of oxygen form carbonic anhydride (COj), a poisonous gas, but when the oyygen is de- ficient carbon monoxide (CO) is formed, which is still more poisonous. While gunpowder may give off" on combustion 3-6 per cent of carbon monoxide, gun-cotton will evolve as much as 28 to 45 per cent of this gas. Haldane has written upon the eff'ects of carbon monoxide upon coal-miners. In his experiments upon animals he found that an atmosphere containing 0-4 per cent of carbon monoxide caused death, and that anything above 0-2 per cent was dangerous. As the gas is, practically speaking, odourless, its presence is not easily recognised. When inhaled it causes dizziness and dyspnoea, attended by palpitation and a sense of drowsi- ness, or there is experienced a feeling of excite- ment resembling that caused by alcoholic in- toxication. These symptoms are followed by loss of muscular power, mental confusion, and by unconsciousness. Carbon monoxide pre- vents the absorption of oxygen by the blood owing to the gas itself having entered into stable combinations with the haemoglobin of the red corpuscles, proof of which is found on examining the blood spectroscopically. The blood is of a bright red colour, shows two bands in the yellow and green of the spectrum, and is not reduced by ammonium sulphide. All the explosives, with the exception of nitro-glycerine and some of the ammonium nitrate products, evolve, when exploded, carbon monoxide. Nitro-glycerine, on the other hand, gives off carbonic anhydride, sometimes to the extent of 58 per cent. There are in addition nitrous fumes, and while these of themselves are dangerous their effects are exaggerated by the presence of CO and COj. Gunpowder gives off on ignition carbonic anhydride and nitrogen, with a small proportion of carbon monoxide and sulphuretted hydrogen. Gun-cotton, tonite, gelignite, and carbonite evolve a fairly large percentage of carbon monoxide, and are there- fore dangerous when exploded in places where the ventilation is defective. The headache complained of after the firing of the high ex- plosives is due to dilatation of the cerebral arteries, which is one of the physiological effects of nitrites. Workers in the Chemical Trades Although many chemical compounds are used in the arts and manufactures, the term chemical trades is usually restricted to the production of alkali, bleach powder, sulphuric acid, etc. Owing to the fact that the production of a large number of chemical compounds is generally conducted by the wet process, and that these compounds are either crystallised out of or are precipitated from solutions, there is less danger to health in their manufacture than when they are subsequently handled or inhaled in the form of dust. Any possible danger from gas in chemical works is obviated by ventilation. In