VISCERAL PAIN 475 sionally happens that the localised pain is not situated in the epigastrium, but when we know more of the exact relationship of the stomach and the skin areas the localised pain will become a guide to the site of the ulcer. While there may be a localised pain in gastric ulcer, the pain and hypereesthesia may radiate very widely. Usually it passes round the left side. A band of hypereesthesia passing from the epigastrium round to the back, with the seventh and eighth spines tender to pressure, may simulate disease of the vertebrse. The hyperaesthesia may ex- tend widely up into the chest and down into the abdomen. The epigastric reflexes in such cases are always greatly exaggerated. It is not easy to decide on the immediate cause of the pain in gastric ulcer and indigestion. There is absolutely no evidence of sensitiveness of the mucous membrane. Contraction of the muscle does give rise to pain, and it is possible that it is the muscular coat that is affected, being more readily stimula ted to contraction on account of the disease. In Beaumont's experiments on the man with the gastric fistula, the only record of pain arising from his stimulation of the internal surface of the stomach occui-red when he pro- duced strong contraction of the pyloric end. Gall-Ducts.—The first onset of pain in gall- stone disease may suddenly become very severe. It is often referred to the middle line, in the lowest part of the epigastric region and adjoin- ing part of the umbilical region. From here it may radiate widely across to the left side, but more usually it passes round the right side over the lower ribs to the back to the right of the eighth, ninth, and tenth dorsal vertebrte, and here the pain may also be felt with great severity. The attack of severe pain may last for many hours, and be accompanied by severe nausea. The attacks may gradually pass off and not recur for some lengthened period, or they may recur with such frequency that the patient is seldom free from pain for weeks and even months. After a severe attack of pain there is often extreme hyperresthesia of the external body wall. It was in a patient suffer- ing from this complaint that I first made the observation of hypersesthesia in visceral disease. A few days after an attack of colic he called on me, holding his right arm stiffly away from his body. Asked why he adopted this attitude, he replied that the contact of his clothes to his skin caused him great pain. On stripping him, I found an area of cutaneous hypersesthesia corresponding to the shaded area in Fig. 4. The hyperaesthesia in cases of gall-stone colic may extend more widely, and be present in the muscles not only of the abdominal wall but as high as the right pectoralis major. I have already mentioned that ingestion of food may also cause pain, and for this reason such ail- ments may be mistaken for diseases of the stomach. Many cases of gall-stone colic are difficult to diagnose because of the vagueness of the symptoms. In many such doubtful cases I have found almost convincing evidence in the presence of a spot peculiarly tender to light pressure, exactly in the position of the X in Fig. 4. Here a twig of the ninth dorsal nerve emerges from the muscle and is readily affected by the pressing finger. This observation I find has been independently observed by Mayo Robson, whose practical knowledge of this disease is very extensive. The cause of the pain in this disease I assume to be due to the strong contractions of the muscular coat of the gall-bladder or gall-duct upon the stone, the latter acting as the exciting cause. The hypergesthesia results from over- stimulation of the centre in the spinal end of the nerves supplying the lower part of the chest and upper part of the abdomen, and these centres remain abnormally excitable after the muscular spasm has relaxed. The cutaneous and muscular tenderness are often stated to be evidence of an accompanying peritonitis, but it is not necessarily so. While doubtless a localised peritonitis may accompany gall-stone disease, and hyperaesthesia be a symp- tom of peritonitis, yet hyperaesthesia is such a constant accompaniment of muscular spasm that we are not justified in diagnosing periton- itis from its presence. Ureter.—The pain arising from a stone either in the pelvis of the kidney or in the ureter is usually very well defined in its distribution. It begins in the back in the lumbar region, radiates round the side, and descends the front of the abdomen in a slanting direction to the level of the pubis. In the male it generally strikes into the testicle. There is also fre- quently present a good deal of hyperaesthesia of the external body wall. The cutaneous hyperaesthesia when present has a distribution corresponding to that shaded in Fig. 3. But it may be more extensive, passing down over the upper part of the thigh. On the other hand, only a small patch in the shaded area may be present. The deeper structures, and particularly the muscles of the back and front of the abdomen, are often very tender. This muscle tenderness is usually limited to the side affected, but, as I have already said, it may affect all the muscles of the abdomen. This tenderness of the muscles in the lumbar region is often assumed to be evidence of a tender kidney, as patients wince when pressure is applied. Careful examination of the muscles reveals the tenderness to be in them. A branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve passes over the iliac crest three inches from the superior anterior iliac spine, and light pressure applied over it sometimes causes pain. The testicle itself is often very tender to light pressure, due to the hyperaesthesia of its tunica vaginalis. It will