141 TUBERCULOSIS A number of chickens belonged to a family, one member of which was suffering from pulmonary phthisis. The chickens all became tuberculous, and had to be destroyed. Tuberculosis of the liver was the principal manifestation found after death. M. Cagny learned that the sick man was in the habit of walking in the garden, and that it had been noticed that the chickens eagerly seized and swallowed the material he expectorated. Sir Chas. Cameron (^Lancet, July 1889) refers to this question, and quotes a case in which about fifty hens died within a period of three to four months. The deaths began to take place some weeks after the arrival of a con- sumptive patient in the house near which the fowls were kept. Maller^e (quoted, Lubarsch u. Ostertag., Abth. ii. 1895, p. 23.5) relates a case in which hens developed tuberculosis from ingestion of the expectorations of a consumptive, and in their turn, being eaten raw, passed on the infection to a woman. A mother and child developed consumption. A young woman in a neighbour- ing house, during a period of four months, ate eleven hens which had died in the consumptives' house, and with the idea of obtaining as much benefit as possible, she consumed them raw. Several of the hens had developed tuberculosis of the intestine and liver from eating the tubercular expectorations. The young woman developed tuberculosis. These few cases are related simply to show that there is a possibility of infection of poultry from man, and vice versa. In any case the risk seems to be slight, and may, in practice, be disregarded. Kruse thinks that among the larger birds the parrot alone may be considered susceptible to mammalian tuberculosis. Piscine Tuberculosis.—Bataillon, Terre, and Dubard have described a condition in the carp resembling tuberculosis, containing bacilli and giant cells. They separated the bacillus, which grew best at 23° to 25° C. Growth was rapid. It branched dichotomously. Krai and Dubard claim that they have converted human and avian tubercle bacilli into a form similar to that obtained from the carp by passage through fish, frogs, lizards, etc. The fish were supposed to have been infected from human tuberculous sputum expectorated into the water. Relation of Human and Bovine Tubercu- losis.—This siibject is the field upon which the battle-royal is at present being fought in con- nection with tuberculosis. Is bovine tubercu- losis transmissible to man 1 Is human tubercu- losis communicable to cattle? Do the bacilli found in these diseases belong to the same species, are they sub-varieties of the same species, the variation being due to change of environment, the bacillus by prolonged resi- dence in one species of animal taking on cer- tain peculiarities, or are they totally different organisms 1 Previous to Koch's oft-quoted speech at the London Congress, the close relationship, if not identity, of these bacilli was accepted as a settled fact, though it was recognised that bacilli from a bovine source were more virulent than those from a human source, and Frothingham, Theo- bald Smith, and Dinwiddle had discovered that cattle in general were immune to pure cultures of the human tubercle bacillus. Koch was also forestalled to some extent by Adami, who in 1899 drew attention to the fact that the evi- dence in favour of the view that bovine tubercu- losis is transmissible to man was not so strong as was generally thought to be ; that while cases did exist of such transmission, they were few in number. Even before Adami, similar views were enunciated by M. Alexandre {Le Progres Medical, Paris, 29th Sept. 1894), who held, as a result of the examination of 20,000 cows in the Department of the Seine, that the consump- tion of the flesh and milk of our domestic ani- mals was not the cavise of the terrible mortality from tuberculosis among mankind, and that it was important that this once-accepted belief be thoroughly rooted out of our minds. Koch's paper was divided into two parts, the first dealing with the possibility of infection of cattle from the human disease, the second with the possibility of infection of man from cattle through ingestion of milk or flesh of diseased cattle. His conclusions were, firstly, that " human tuberculosis differs from bovine and cannot be transmitted to cattle " ; and secondly, " that the extent of infection by the milk and flesh of tuberculous cattle and the butter made from their milk is hardly greater than that of hereditary transmission, and that it is inadvisable to take any measures against it." A. In support of his first dictum, Koch brought forward very strong experimental evi- dence. He used cattle which had been proved by the use of tuberculin to be free from tuber- culosis. He found that inoculation and ingestion of human tuberculous material and of pure cultures of the bacillus were invariably without result, except that, occasionally, small sup- purative foci were found at the site of inocula- tion ; whereas inoculation of bovine tuberculous material, as invariably, caused generalised tuberculosis. He did not obtain such uniform results in feeding pigs with similar materials, as, in some of those fed with tuberculous sputum, "little nodules were found in the lymphatic glands of the neck, and in one case a few grey nodules in the lungs." With bovine material, on the con- trary, they all, without exception, developed severe tuberculosis. Similar results were obtained by injecting cultures into the vascular systems of asses, sheep, and goats, which, it must be noted, are