97 TRADES, DANGEROUS the chemical trades the principal goods manu- factured are hydrochloric and sulphuric acids, sodium carbonate, caustic soda, caustic potass, and bleaching powder. These are usually all produced in the same factory. In what is known as the Le Blanc process, sulphate of soda, or salt cake, is first formed by acting upon common salt with sulphuric acid. These two compounds are heated together on the bed of a furnace, and raked from time to time until the salt decomposes. Large quantities of hydrochloric acid are given off and removed by means of a blower. As this gas is extremely irritating to the lining membrane of the re- spiratory passages, the workmen are obliged to wear a flannel mufHer tied over their face, or they bite a piece of flannel held between their teeth and breathe through it. As a consequence either of biting the flannel or of the operation of the acid fumes themselves, the teeth rapidly decay. The workmen, too, are exposed to great changes of temperature, and readily catch cold. After removal of the salt cake from the furnace it is mixed with limestone and coal in a black ash furnace ; there it is heated and decomposed. This is a process apparently unattended with risk to the health of the operative. The soda having been dissolved, can be converted as re- quired into soda ash, soda crystals, or caustic soda. The liquor containing the caustic soda has to be concentrated by heat. By degrees the cauldron holding the liquor becomes occupied by red-hot caustic soda. This is sub- sequently baled out into iron drums and allowed to cool, after which it is ready for the market. Considerable danger attends this process. A few drops of water falling into the liquor causes it to spurt. Beyond burns of a serious character having occurred in this process, there is nothing in it that can be said to be absolutely unhealthy to the workmen. It is diff'erent, however, with the bleaching powder made from the hydro- chloric acid given ofl" from the salt-cake furnace. Chemical manufacturers require the chlorine obtained from the hydrochloric acid, and this is got either by decomposing the acid in large stills by means of manganese mud, the gas being led away by pipes to the bleaching chamber (Weldon process), or the hydrochloric acid gas, mixed with proper proportions of air and steam, is conveyed thither direct from the salt-cake furnace (Deacon process). A. P. Laurie, whose description of the various pro- cesses I have followed, tells us, in a paper on "Chemical Trades," that in order to prepare bleaching powder freshly slaked lime must be exposed to chlorine gas. The lime absorbs the gas, and retains it only very slightly, for it is constantly evolving the chlorine. The packing of the bleach powder is one of the most disagreeable operations a man in a chemical works can do. He is obliged to enter the bleach chamber, which contains free chlorine, VOL. X and to shovel the powder through holes in the floor into casks. Before he can do this the packer must wrap his face in rolls of flannel, the mouth being covered, but his nostrils free. It is necessary to keep the flannel just sufficiently damp to prevent the gas reaching the lungs. Leather goggles are put on to protect the eyes, while paper leggings are worn to protect the trousers. As the man begins to shovel the bleach into the casks the chlorine gas at once rises, and were the workman not protected in the manner described, it would be impossible for him to remain more than a few seconds in the bleach chamber. As it is, the flannel wrappings cause the breathing to be very difficult and most trying. The bleach-packer when in the chamber is obliged to inhale by the mouth, through the wet flannel, and exhale by the open nostrils. Chlorine gas is extremely irritating to the respiratory mucous membrane. When inhaled it causes an unpleasant, suff'ocative feeling. Breathing of the gas is attended by a consider- able degree of discomfort, and when pushed too far causes insensibility and death. In the manufacture of sulphuric acid iron pyrites is burned, and the sulphur dioxide as it escapes is led away into large lead chambers, where it is brought into contact with air, steam, and nitrous fumes, the latter having been ob- tained by acting upon sodium nitrate with sulphuric acid. Occasionally sulphur dioxide and nitrous fumes escape, and are inhaled by the workman. These gases are irritating to the respiratory mucous membrane. Attempts are now being made, and on the whole successfully, by chemical manufacturers to recover the sulphur from the black ash left in the vat after the preparation of soda. The ash in question is rich in sulphide of lime. Hitherto this has been looked upon simply as a waste product. Large mounds of it can be seen in the neighbourhood of alkali works. These heaps when acted upon by rain and air give off large quantities of sulphuretted hydro- gen. Some of this waste is taken and mixed with water; the mixture is subsequently placed in large closed vessels, and carbonic acid passed through it. Decomposition is eff'ected, sul- phuretted hydrogen being given oiT and carbon- ate of lime precipitated. The sulphuretted hydrogen is thereafter burned, sulphur and water being formed. The gas itself is not only very unpleasant, it is extremely poisonous. On allowing a dog to breathe an atmosphere con- taining 0'2 per cent of sulphuretted hydrogen, I have seen the animal fall down apparently dead after 1|- minutes' inhalation of the gas; its breathing was completely arrested, while the heart continued to beat for a short period after death. An animal thus apparently killed by sulphuretted hydrogen might recover if placed in purer air and caused to breathe oxygen by