74 TOXICOLOGY Monkshood.—The alkaloid of this plant— aconitine—is probably the most vii'uleut poison known. It most unfortunately happens that several preparations are known as aconitine, and that they differ enormously in potency. English and French aconitines are much more powerful than German aconitine. Symptoms.—Tingling, followed by numbness, is felt in the lips, mouth, and throat soon after the poison is swallowed; the tingling subse- quently spreads all over the body. Nausea, usually followed by vomiting and sometimes by purging, with pain in the stomach and abdomen, occurs. Imperfect vision, restlessness, anxiety, twitching of the muscles, darting nerve pains in the legs, prostration, feeble intermittent pulse, lowering of the temperature, and collapse with possibly convulsions, precede death. Treatment.—Empty the stomach by tube or emetic. Administer brandy by mouth or rectum, or ether subcutaneously. External warmth, friction, artificial respiration, and the recumbent posture will be required. Fatal Dose.—One drachm of aconite root, two grains of the pharmacopoeial extract, one ounce of the liniment, and one drachm of the tincture have each caused death. The fatal period is from three-quarters of an hour to twenty hours; the usual period being from three to four hours. The post-mortem appearances are not char- acteristic. Pilocarpine, the chief active principle of jaborandi, is used medicinally in order to pro- mote the action of the skin. It also stimulates the secretion of mucus, and in this way occasion- ally produces symptoms of suffocation by caus- ing sudden blockage of the bronchial tubes. One-sixth of a grain injected hypodermically has given rise to alarming symptoms. Vomit- ing, purging, and pain in the head are also produced. The effects may be combated by hypodermic injections of one-fiftieth of a grain of atropine. Physostigmine, or Eseeinb, an alkaloid of the Calabar bean, is used for ophthalmic purposes in order to contract the pupil. It has produced toxic effects when a stronger solution than usual has been dropped into the eye. When the bean is swallowed, pain in the stomach, vomiting, small slow pulse, salivation, thirst, cold moist surface, and occasionally diarrhoea, are produced. The treatment would be to evacuate the stomach if the poison was swallowed, to use artificial re- spiration if necessary, and to administer one- fiftieth of a grain doses of atropine until the pulse-rate is quickened. Hypodermic injections of strychnine, a fiftieth to a twenty-fifth of a grain, are useful. Santonin occasionally produces symptoms of poisoning in children to whom it has been given as an anthelmintic. A common symptom, often seen without other ill-effect, is what is called " yellow vision," probably due to pi-imary stimu- lation with subsequent paralysis of the violet- seeing retinal elements. Singing in the ears, dizziness, pain in the stomach, vomiting, stupor, convulsions, and a tendency to asphyxia, may also occur. The urine is of a dark yellow colour, and, on the addition of sodium hydrate, becomes red. If rhubarb be present in the urine it yields the same reaction ; but if milk of lime be subsequently added and the urine is filtered, the filtrate is colourless, whereas urine contain- ing santonin does not lose its colour when similarly treated. Two grains of santonin caused the death of a child five and a half years old ; recovery in a child has followed ten grains. The treatment is to evacuate the poison, to give stimulants, and, if convulsions occur, potassium bromide. Abortifacients Among the substances which are taken by pregnant women with the object of procuring abortion are : savin, yew, pennyroyal, tansy, saffron, colocynth, croton oil, gamboge, aloes, hellebore, ergot, cantharides, phosphorus, and salts of iron, lead, mercury, and arsenic. With one exception none of these substances has a specific action on the healthy uterus, but abor- tion may follow their administration i;nder one or both of two conditions : that there is an un- healthy relation between the uterus and its contents ; or, that the drug is administered in such doses as to produce severe symptoms of general poisoning. It is well known that preg- nant women suffering from syphilis, and from other conditions which are not well understood, abort very readily and from trivial causes; in such women a smart purge may induce abortion, so that with them many of the above-named substances, which are cathartics and irritants, are competent to cause abortion without being administered in poisonous doses. It is equally well known that perfectly healthy pregnant women may be subjected to considerable and even excessive violence from accidental causes without the progress of gestation being inter- fered with. Such women will not respond to any so-called ecbolics unless the drug is ad- ministered in sufficiently poisonous doses as to seriously derange the entire organism, often with fatal results. It not unfrequently happens, when powerful drugs are taken with the object of causing abortion, that the woman is fatally poisoned, and dies undelivered; in other cases abortion is speedily followed by the death of the mother. The inclusion of the salts of iron in the list of abortives is due to false deduction. Women know that doctors often prescribe iron in anaemic amenorrhcea, and have drawn the inference that the iron acts directly on the uterus, and compels it to resume its monthly function, and therefore that iron will re-establish menstruation which by any