UTERUS, MALFORMATIONS OF THE 327 changes have taken place owing to distension before the obstruction is removed it is doubtful whether the patient could conceive. We have not met with or heard of a case where a patient who had had atresia of the vagina became preg- nant subseqviently. 2. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of malformation will depend in the first place on inspection, when any external abnormality will be at once discovered, and the patency or otherwise of the vaginal orifice determined. A digital vaginal examination will show whether the vagina is unduly narrow or short, or whether the cervix is normally developed. Two vaginte may be thus discovered, each containing a cervix ; or two cervices may be found in a single vagina. Bimanual examination will then be necessary to determine the degree of development of the uterus, tubes, and ovaries. This information can also be obtained, though less satisfactorily, by a recto-abdominal examination. The sound will lend assistance in ascertaining the length of the uterus, and may also enable one to demonstrate that the uterus has two cavities. The uterus may be found to be very small or rudimentary, and it may even be impossible to feel it at all bimanually. When the ovaries are small they are often difficult to feel, and it may not be possible to form any conclusion as to their development except by inference. Uni- lateral atresia often presents great difficulties in diagnosis; a lateral hsematocolpos will re- semble an abscess burrowing down by the side of the vagina, whilst a lateral hsematometra will probably be mistaken for a broad ligament or ovarian cyst until the condition is ascertained by operation, or on the post-mortem table. 3. Treatment.—The scope of treatment for malformations of the female genital organs is necessarily limited. When there is under- development of uterus and ovaries no treatment is of any avail; and in cases of doubling of the uterus and vagina no treatment is necessary, unless it be that the vaginal septum interferes with intercourse or obstructs labour ; in which case it should be divided, and, if possible, either a portion or the whole length of it ex- cised. If the clitoris or labia are so enlarged as to cause discomfort, or if the cervix is much elongated, resection of the part is indicated. The conditions that more particularly call for treatment are different forms of atresia and of absence of the vagina. Thus hsematocolpos will require a free incision to allow of the evacuation of the retained fluid. The treat- ment of hgematometra, with a normal vagina, is equally simple; but special means must be taken to prevent reclosure, as by packing with gauze, and by the use of dilators later on if necessary. Absence or considerable deficiency of the vagina is a more difficult matter to deal with. Treatment may be required either to allow of the outflow of menses or to permit of intercourse. Dissection may have to be carried to some depth between the urethra and rectum before the blind end of the vagina or the cervix is reached ; and when this has been done it is a very troublesome matter to keep the channel patent. Various plastic operations, with the turning in of flaps of skin, have been suggested and practised from time to time ; in a few cases a successful result has been attained, it may be after repeated operations. In other cases the attempt has had to be abandoned, and it has been found necessary to perform abdominal hysterectomy to prevent the recurring htemato- metra. Lateral atresia requires to be treated on the same principles as the more common forms of atresia; it is important that the sep- tum between the patent and the occluded half of the vagina or uterus should be removed as far as possible to prevent reclosure. Occluded tubes usually require removal; but in some cases it is possible to restore the patency of a tvxbe by a plastic operation. Mere stenosis of the vagina or rigidity of the hymen is easily treated by dilatation of the former or incision of the latter. Some care in the after-treatment will probably be required to maintain the normal calibre. II. Displacements of the Uterus The Normal Mobility .... 327 Normal Movements and Positions . 328 Abnormal Positions— Displacements as a vjhole . . . 328 Displacements hy Version . . 328 ,, ,, Flexion . . 329 „ ,, Inversion . . 329 1. Ascent ...... 329 2. Descent ...... 329 3. Proplapse 329 4. Anteposition ..... 336 5. Retroposition ..... 336 6. Sinistro- and Dextroposition . . 336 7. Pathological Anteversion and Ante- flexion ...... 337 8. Congenital Anteflexion . . . 338 9. Retroversion and Retroflexion . 339 The Normal Mobility of the Uterus.—The most rigid attachments of the uterus are those of the supravaginal portion of the cervix. Here the uterus is inserted in the pelvic floor, and is embraced by the pelvic fascise. In front it is attached for a distance of 2 cm. to the posterior wall of the bladder; by the utero- vesical ligaments it is attached to the pubes. Behind it is attached to the sacrum by the utero-sacral ligaments, which contain strong muscular bands in their folds. These ligaments converge to form the muscle of Luschka, and are inserted into the posterior aspect of the uterus at a point a little below the junction of body and cervix. These attachments make the supravaginal