WOUNDS 534 injuries as dislocation and fracture occurring beneath the unbroken skin as a result of violence. The popular application of the term to any open sore is here excluded. Fissures and other solutions of continuity in bone and cartilage, whilst having much in common with wounds, are, in precise surgical language, fractures. Varieties.—It is usual and of practical con- venience to classify wounds, according to the appearance of their edges, as follows :— 1. Incised.—The injury having been inflicted by a sharp object, as a knife or glass, shows clean-cut edges. 2. Lacerated.—In these the margins are ir- regular and ragged, the parts having been subjected to a stretching or dragging force. Striking examples occur in machinery accidents, as, for instance, where the hair gets entangled in a moving band, and the scalp is torn open and more or less detached by the excessive tension. 3. Contused.—Here also there is unevenness of the edges; but there is in addition a certain amount of adjacent and subjacent bruising,— that is, infiltration of the tissues with blood effused from ruptured vessels,— the extent of bruising varying with the force of the blow and the area and vascularity of the part struck. Wounds of this kind are caused indifferently by the sudden impact of a blunt object, or by a fall against a fixed surface or projection,—the efficient factor in either case being violent pressure or squeezing. Irrespective of the character of its borders a wound is termed— (a) penetrating, when it opens into a joint or cavity of the body ; (J)) perforating, when the lesion extends through a part, so as to produce a wound of exit as well as one of entrance ; (c) pmictured, when the depth exceeds the length; and {d) infected, when pathogenic bacteria or their products have entered and set up morbid processes: (poisoned wounds resulting from pricks or scratches in making a post-mortem examination are examples of infection, and, in this connection, the special term is unnecessary ; though it may be retained for wounds into which chemical, as distinguished from microbic, poisons are instilled). Bites inflicted by the teeth and beaks of animals combine the characters of bruising and tearing; they are very liable to be infected by material conveyed from the animal's mouth at the time of wounding, though the liability is diminished if the teeth pass through layers of clothing before reaching the skin. The bites of venomous snakes owe their special danger to the poisonous gland-secretion discharged into the wound through grooved or canalised fangs, and giving rise to general toxaemia. Repair of Wounds.—It may be premised that wounds of every kind are repaired by a method common to them all, the final result being that the breach is filled up with organised new material. In some specialised structures as nerve, striated muscle, and tendon, there may be, to a slight extent, an actual regenera- tion of similar tissue; but as a rule the new formation is a simple connective material known as scar-tissue. Injuries of bone are not here considered, but it may be noted in passing that, whilst their repair is effected by a solid sub- stance, the earlier stages of the process are identical with what is observed in the soft parts. When the surface-opening of a wound is closed without undue delay, and no disturbance or complication such as septic infection ensues, healing takes place by (1) primary union, or by (2) the intermediation of blood-clot, or (3) under a scab. In the case of an open wound, or the open part of one partially closed, healing proceeds by (4) granulation, or, in a later stage, by (5) the union of granulations. 1. Healing by primary union or first inten- tion is exemplified in the repair of an uncom- plicated incised wound, in which the cut edges and surfaces are kept in close contact after all bleeding has ceased. The immediate effect of the injury upon the contiguous zone of tissue is the setting-up of the nutritional disturbances characteristic of commencing inflammation, which proceed to their completion in organisa- tion and resolution in such a manner that the chink of the wound becomes filled with vascu- larised fibres organically continuous with the neighbouring connective tissue, whilst the latter reverts to its normal condition. It will be sufficient here to give the following summary of the histological processes in question. The first obvious change is dilatation of the arterioles, capillaries, and veins nearest to the blood-vessels whose divided mouths have been sealed by clot; and coincidently the rate of their blood-flow is quickened. These phen- omena are followed by a slowing down of the local current, often to the point of stagnation, together with leakage of serous fluid and emigration of leucocytes into the surrounding connective tissue spaces in consequence of increased permeability of the altered vascular walls. This sero-corpuscular exudate under- goes partial coagulation with the formation of fibrin, and constitutes in the affected region a glue-like mass, continuous across the sides of the wound which are thus, so to speak, soldered together. Objectively to sight, the parts are rather more swollen and reddened, and to touch, warmer and firmer than in health. The cellular elements of the exudate become reinforced in number by the arrival of amoeboid wandering cells, and also by the detachment and multiplication of fixed tissue