ULCERS AND ULCERATION 215 stitutes what is popularly known as "proud flesh." The same condition may arise when induration around prevents contraction of the sore. (6) The Callous Condition.—This condition is usually met with in ulcers on the lower third of the leg, and is often associated with the presence of varicose veins. The want of healing is mainly due to the impeded venous return and to the oedematous and indurated condition of the parts around. This induration of the sur- rounding tissues results from coagulation and partial organisation of the inflammatory effusion, and prevents the contraction of the sore necessary to repair. The base of a callous ulcer lies at some distance below the level of the swollen, thickened, and white edges, and presents a glazed appearance. Such granulations as are present are unhealthy and irregular in size. Foul- smelling yellow pus or sloughs cover the surface, from which a quantity of thin serum exudes. As a rule the condition is painless. The sufferers from this variety of ulcer usually belong to the labouring classes who are underfed, over- wrought, wanting in cleanliness, and often ex- cessive in the use of alcohol. Bone Changes.—The prolonged hypersemia of the tissues in relation to a callous ulcer of the leg often leads to peculiar changes in the under- lying bones (Reclus). The periosteum is ab- normally thick and vascular, the superficial layers of the bone become injected and porous, and the bone as a whole is thickened. " The surface is covered with irregular stalactite-like processes of foliaceous masses, which to a certain extent follow the line of attachment of the inter- osseous membrane and of the intermuscular septa " (Cathcart). When the whole thickness of the soft tissues is destroyed by the ulcerative pro- cess the area of bone which comes to form the base of the ulcer projects as a flat, porous node. In course of time the ulcer eats its way into the bone and produces depressions or erosions on its surface. These changes have often been mis- taken for primary bone diseases. 3. Ulcers ivhich are spreading xna.j be met with in one of several conditions. (a) The Inflamed Condition.—Any ulcer may become acutely inflamed as a result of fresh infection with active bacteria. Mechanical irrita- tion, such as is produced, for example, by direct injury, by the pressure or friction of ill-fitting splints or bandages, or even by excessive use of the part, tends to aggravate the inflammation, as does also chemical irritation by strong or unsuitable antiseptic applications. The most typical example of an inflamed ulcer is the venereal soft sore. The base of the ulcer becomes red and angry-looking, the granulations disappear, and a copious discharge of thin yellow pus mixed with blood escapes. Sloughs of granulation tissue or of connective tissue may form. The edges become red, ragged, and everted, and the ulcer increases in size by spreading into the inflamed and oedematous surrounding tissue. Such ulcers are frequently multiple. Pain is a constant symptom and is often severe, and there is usually some constitu- tional disturbance. (6) The irritable condition is met with in ulcers which occur, as a rule, just above the external malleolus in women of neurotic tem- perament. They are small in size and have prominent granulations, and by the aid of a probe, points of excessive tenderness may be discovered scattered over the surface of the ulcer. These, Hilton believed, correspond to exposed nerve filaments. The small ulcers met with in gouty subjects are also liable to pass into this irritable condition. (c) The phagedcBuic condition is the result of an ulcer being infected with specially virulent bacteria. It often occurs in syphilitic ulcers, and leads to a very rapid and destructive in- filtration of the surrounding tissues, with the formation of sloughs and much pus. All the signs of infiltration, both local and constitutional, are present to a marked degree, and the ab- sorption of toxines may lead to a fatal result. {d) The haemorrhagic condition is seen in its most typical form in scorbutic ulcers. The sore is swollen and vascular, bleeds very readily, and is often covered with a thick coagulum. Ulcers which have been brought into a weak condition by too much poulticing frequently bleed freely, as do also those associated with varicose veins should a vein become eroded. Treatment of Ulcers.—The prompt and patient treatment of ulcers is a matter of great practical importance. An ulcer is not only an immediate cause of suffering to the patient, crippling and incapacitating him for his work, but is a distinct and constant menace to his health. The prolonged discharge reduces his strength; the open sore is a possible source of infection by the organisms of suppuration, erysipelas, or other specific diseases. Phlebitis, with formation of , septic emboli, leading to pyaemia, is an ever-present risk ; and in old persons it is not imcommon for ulcers of long standing to become the seat of epithelioma. In addition, the offensive odour of the ulcer renders the patient in many cases a source of annoyance and discomfort to his friends; and the expense incurred for dressings is a constant drain on his limited resources. Principles of Treatment applicable to all Ulcers.—The primary object of treatment in any ulcer is to bring it into the condition of a healing sore. When this has been effected nature will do the rest, provided extraneous sources of ii-ritation be excluded. Rest is an essential condition to the repair of all ulcers, and is best secured by putting the patient to bed and applying some form of splint.