470 VISCERAL PAIN in Fig. 1. After several attacks the pain was felt over a more extensive area in the chest, and extended into the left arm. This area became also very hyperfesthetic, and corresponded to the shaded area in Fig. 2. Fig. 1.—The shaded area shows the situation of the pain and hypersestliesia aiter the first attacic of angina pectoris The hypersesthesia in renal colic shows a similar relationship of cutaneous tenderness with the area of pain. In Fig. 3 the shaded FIO. 2.—The shaded areas show the distribution of the pain and hyper.-Esthesia after repeated attacks of angina pectoris. Note that the inner surface of the right elbow was also hypera;sthetic, and the pain was also severely felt here. area shows the hypersesthesia in a patient suffering from renal colic, who passed a small calculus a few days after the onset of the pain. The pain radiated to the testicle, and this organ was extremely tender on light pressure. It will be observed, however, that the shading showing the cutaneous hypersesthesia stops short at the groin, the skin of the scrotum is not altered in its sensibility, while, as I have said, the testicle was tender to light pressure. The reason for this is that the shaded area represents roughly a portion of the area of cutaneous distribution of the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar nerves, and as the latter nerve also supplies the deep covering of the testicle, the testicle is tender to pressure. The skin of the scrotum receives its nerve-supply from distant nerves, namely, the third and fourth sacral, and their centres in the spinal cord are therefore unaffected by the stimulation. VIII. The Character of the Cutaneous HypERiESTHESiA.—In a certain number of cases after an attack of pain due to some visceral Fig. 3.—The shaded area shows the distribution of the hyperjcsthesia in a case of renal calculus. disease, the tissues forming the external body wall become hypersesthetic. This hypersesthesia can be demonstrated to affect not only the skin but the deeper structures of the external body wall, more particularly the muscles. Glands - such as the mammary also become tender to pressure. In addition to the tenderness of the muscles there is a great tendency for the muscles to become tonically contracted. The hypersesthesia of the skin shows itself in two forms. Sometimes the skin is so tender that the patient cannot bear the clothing to touch the part. At other times the light stroking of a pin calls forth the sensation of pain instead of that of touch. This form of hypersesthesia may be called epidermic or superficial cutaneous, because it appears when the stimulus applied affects the surface of the skin. Another form of cutaneous hypereesthesia can be demonstrated when the skin is gently