553 WRIST-JOINT INJURIES example: — A man of middle age and full strength was lowering a cask of pork into a cellar, letting it down a sloping plank. The cask proved too heavy for his hands pressed against it, and fell in spite of his resistance. At once he felt sharp pain in his wrist and noticed a projection at the back of the joint. He was presented to me next day in the accident room of Sir Patrick Dun's Hospital. I concluded that the tumour was either part of the scaphoid broken off and displaced, or there was partial dislocation of the bone unbroken. The small size of the tumour suggested that the case was one of fracture. I reduced the projection with a little manipulation, and when reduced there did not appear to be any tendency to recurrence of the projection. I did not get crepitus in any part of the manipulation. I put a compress over the dorsal aspect of the wrist, and the next day had a skiagraph taken which shows the fracture very distinctly. I have never since seen the patient, so that I con- clude he is free from trouble. I have placed in our collection a fragment, nearly one-half of the scaphoid, which was given to me by my friend Dr. H. Fitzgibbon. He obtained it in this way :—A man had had his hand and wrist jammed in the cogs of a machine. The contusions behaved kindly for a time, but on the man's attempting to use the limb a swelling appeared at the anterior aspect of the wrist, which presently suppurated, and on the abscess being opened the detached and necrosed fragment of the scaphoid presented in the wound and was removed. In falls from a trapeze, in which the individual comes to the ground on his knees and over-extended wrists, the scaphoid may be broken. Of this injury I have represen- tations of the Rontgen rays in two cases. Our collection contains a single example of the semi- lunar bone broken in several places without any lesion of the other bones either of carpus or fore- arm. One specimen of fractured cuneiform bone exists in Dublin ; the cuneiform which corre- sponds to the radius represented in Fig. 9 : a cog-wheel injury. I know of a single example of fracture of the pisiform bone (Stimson, 2nd edition, p. 666). It would appear from the facts recorded with regard to the fractures of the bones of the first row of the carpus that union does not readily take place in this injury. As yet I know no example of osseous union having been observed. Wrist-Joint Diseases. 1. Tuberculosis 553 Symptoms ..... 553 Pathological Anatomy . . . 554 Treatment ..... 554 Mediciiial . . . .554 Operative .... 554 2. Pyogenic Diseases .... 555 3. GoNORRHCEAL Arthritis . . . 556 4. Chronic " Employment " Arthritis . 556 5. Arthritis Deformans . . . 556 6. Charcot's Disease .... 556 7. Syphilis (vide Joints). 8. Rheumatism (vide Joints). 9. Tubercular Teno-Synovitis . . 556 10. Pyogenic Teno-Synovitis . . 557 11. Acute Teno-Synovitis . . . 557 12. Chronic Teno-Synovitis . . 558 13. Tubercular Osteomyelitis of the Metacarpal Bones . . . 558 Tuberculosis.—The wrist joint holds a position midway between the shoulder and the elbow as regards its liability to tuberculosis. The disease in the elbow accounts for about 7 per cent of all joint tuberculoses, that in the wrist for 5 per cent, and that in the shoulder for Ih per cent. This fact of its comparative rarity, coupled with the very insidious onset which characterises the disease in this joint, often leads to a delay in recognition of the condition and consequent serious permanent damage to the joint. Two features are worthy of remark in this disease. Of all joint tuberculoses that of the wrist is perhaps the one most specially liable to be associated with phthisis. And the second point is that, though it occurs in children, it is essentially a disease of adult life; many patients suffering from it are no longer young, and some of them are old. I amputated the hand in a severe case in which the patient must have been between sixty and seventy years of age. Symptoms.—Swelling is an early symptom. It is more marked on the dorsal surface, but even on the palmar surface comparison with the other wrist shows that the normal hollows are filled up; there is "a fulness and smooth- ness of outline, both on the palmar and dorsal aspects, which, even when it is slight, is very characteristic." When the disease has existed for some time the carpus may be found displaced somewhat forwards ; the wrist slightly flexed, or the forearm, hand, or fingers in a straight line ; the thumb applied to the hand, and the fingers held close together, though in some cases they may be widely separated. Atrophy of the muscles of the forearm is usually found early and well marked. With the flat forearm, the bulging, thick wrist, and the thin, tapering, glistening fingers stuck together, the disease presents a notable and unmistakable picture. Flexion and extension may seem at first sight to be un- restricted in an early case, but even at the beginning of the disease the limits of these movements will be found on careful examina- tion to be narrowed. The same may be said of pronation and supination, and of course later in the disease only slight movements are possible. Pain is often absent for a considerable time, but in the later stages may be extreme.