447 VERTIGO The vertigo of Meniere's disease is paroxysmal, and comes on with such suddenness that the patient may fall to the ground as if struck down by an unseen hand. In other cases he reels, but has time to clutch at some neighbouring object to prevent himself from falling. He may either feel as if rotating himself or as if sur- rounding objects were whirling round him, or again as if the ground were sinking down under his feet. The giddiness lasts sometimes for hours ; slighter attacks may pass off in a few minutes. It is increased by movement, and the slightest attempt to raise the head may induce vomiting. The direction to which the patient falls is usually forwards or towards one side, and this movement, whether real or apparent, is more commonly away from the side of the affected ear. In recurring attacks the direction of falling and of apparent movement of objects is usually the same. Not infrequently nystag- moid jerks of the eyes occur during the attack, and double vision has also been observed. Slight degrees of diplopia have been explained by Sir W. Gowers as possibly due to nystagmus of unequal degree in the two eyes, since no true ocular palsy exists. Momentary loss of con- sciousness sometimes, though rarely, occurs. The vertigo is frequently accompanied or followed by nausea and vomiting, lasting sometimes for hours. Headache is also commonly present. The patient is pale, and his skin covered with a cold, clammy sweat. Together with the symp- toms already mentioned, and simultaneous with them, there are characteristic auditory pheno- mena, generally a sudden loud noise. This has been compared by patients to the whistling of an engine, the roar of the sea, or the discharge of a gun. It is usually unilateral. At the same time, if attention be paid to the point, more usually later, it is discovered that there is deafness, more or less complete, in the affected ear, with diminution or loss of bone-con- duction. As the attack passes off, the tinnitus becomes less intense, the pallor and sweating cease, whilst the giddiness, nausea, and vomiting tend to continue, though less severe, for hours or days. A certain degree of deafness usually remains, but is rarely absolute. Such symptoms, occurring with apoplectiform suddenness, constitute the typical picture of Meniere's disease. But frequently the par- oxysms are much slighter and unassociated with nausea or vomiting, so that the patient may simply have sudden transient giddiness. But the attacks, whether slight or severe, tend to recur ; rarely does a patient escape with a single attack. The intervals between them vary from days to months or years ; they may gradually decrease in frequency, or may progressively increase until, with successive attacks, the deaf- ness becomes absolute, when the vertigo gener- ally ceases. Between the attacks the patient sometimes feels a slight persistent giddiness, but not invariably. In a certain number of cases the attack occurs at night when the patient lies down, so that he has to sit up for a time until it passes off. Or it may even occur during sleep and wake the patient up. The pathological investigations recorded in Meniere's disease are somewhat scanty. In Meniere's original series of cases the symptoms came on suddenly in patients previously free from ear trouble. More usually, however, the phenomena occur in patients the subjects of previous ear affection of some sort, often in the middle ear. But it should be borne in mind that auditory vertigo, per se, is referable to changes in the semicircular canals of the inner ear. The lesion there is probably most com- monly of inflammatory nature. In a few cases it has been a direct extension from adjacent middle-ear inflammation ; more often it is the result of general constitutional disease, especi- ally gout and syphilis. In other cases the slowly progressive character of the symptoms point rather to degenerative changes in the labyrinth, either senile or associated with atheroma of the vessels of the inner ear, as has been demonstrated in one case. Actual htemor- rhage into the labyrinth, as described by Meniere, is undoubtedly rare, though it is the probable explanation of cases occurring in leuk- semia or other bleeding diseases, also in some cases of chronic renal disease and in fractures in the base of the skull. Cases which have been recorded as supervening in tabes dorsalis are probably due to primary disease of the vestibular nerve. The paroxysmal nature of the disease is more difficult to explain. Perhaps the labyrinthine disease causes a permanent instability of the equilibratory mechanism, so that it becomes acutely deranged by minimal superadded excita- tions, as, for example, by toxic, gastro-intes- tinal, or vaso-motor disturbances, or even by emotional excitement. Four-fifths of the cases occur after the age of thirty, and the disease is twice as common in men as in women. Diagnosis.—To those familiar with the phen- omena of labyrinthine vertigo its diagnosis, as a rule, presents no difficulty. From ordinary epilepsy it is distinguished by the co-existence of vertigo, tinnitus, and deafness, and by the tendency for slight giddiness to persist between the attacks of severe vertigo. Loss of conscious- ness, which is the rule in epilepsy, is rare in labyrinthine vertigo. From cerebral hsemor- rhage or softening the diagnosis is made by the presence of aural phenomena and the absence of signs of a focal brain lesion, either in the form of paralysis or affection of reflexes. Paralysing vertigo or -Gerlier's disease is a curious affection which occurs among cowherds in certain Swiss cantons. The symptoms con-