360 UTERUS, NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE Perimetritis, parametritis, and localised effu- sions into the peritoneum can seldom be mis- taken for fibroids. The upper rounded margin may closely simulate a tumour of the broad ligament, or of the space between the bladder and the uterus. On the other hand, the lower part of a fibroid, even when incarcerated in the pelvis, will seldom show so uniform a surface as occurs in para- and perimetritis; and the posi- tion of the uterus pushed up or to one side by a fibroid is seldom like its quasi-central posi- tion when it is embedded in an outpouring of plastic inflammatory products. The history, too, is widely different—cellulitis usually follows parturition, operation, or infection, and is ac- companied by a rise of temperature and pulse, and by a general systemic reaction. The difficulty is greater in old cases of cellu- litis where shrinking and partial absorption have occurred, sometimes leaving an isolated hard mass in a broad ligament. Here the best clue is afforded by the less rounded outline and less sharp definition of the inflammatory mass, and also by the absence of any pedicle such as might be made out in a pedicled fibroid, though the pedicle might be simulated by strands of old inflammatory tissue between the intra ligamentous mass and the uterus. Treatment of Fibroids In some cases the treatment is to "let it alone "; but considering the many complications, degenerations, and dangers that may occur, the patient should be carefully examined at suitable intervals, and accurate notes kept of all the details of her case, so that rapid growth, attacks of pain, and other warnings of danger may receive attention. Medical Treatment. — Medical treatment of fibroids has been almost entirely limited to efforts to control haemorrhage and to relieve pain. The drug most in use is ergot in one of its forms, administered either subcutaneously or by the mouth. Subcutaneously—sclerotinic acid or ergotinin ; by the mouth—ergole or ergot in doses of 1 to 3 grains three times a day for three months, with possibly large doses of the liquid extract of ergot (one-half to one drachm combined with ten grains of bromide of potas- sium) during the periods if the haemorrhage and pain are excessive. Another drug used somewhat largely in America and also in Europe is hydrastis cana- densis. This may be ordered in doses of f gr. hydrastinine three times a day, or may be taken three times a day in doses of 20 to 30 drops of tincture of hydrastis. Hazeline has been found useful, especially in cases where the haemorrhage is caused by pas- sive congestion of the uterine mucous mem- brane. It should be given in doses of 20 to 40 or even 60 drops combined with 10 of tincture of nux vomica and an ounce of chloroform water three times a day. In pill it can be given as extract of hamamelis gr. j., ext. nux vomica \, and ext. gentian, or pil. rhei co. gr. j., three times a day. Preparations of thyroid gland and of the suprarenal capsule have also been tried. Adrenalin hydrochloride in 3-minim doses checks haemorrhage, and calcium chloride is some- times effectual. It is to be borne in mind that these drugs are directed against one symptom only, and that even if they check the haemorrhage they have no power to relieve pressure effects, to prevent degeneration, or to deal with complica- tions. Ergot, the most powerful of the three, is scarcely a drug to be used for months and years. It is chiefly useful in cases of sub- mucous fibroids or polypi, for by stimulating the muscular contractions it may assist in the extrusion of the mass. The relief of pain is a difficult question. It is sometimes a very marked and exhausting symptom, and yet in a disease which may run a very chronic course it is wrong to teach the patient the morphia habit, or to permit her to depend on any drug in the long list of anal- gesics and hypnotics. Electrolysis as applied to fibroids has been long known and has been largely used, especially by Apostoli and his school in France, and in Great Britain by Dr. Keith and his sons. When the mortality of direct operations on the tumour or the uterus was heavy, electrolysis was gladly hailed, and it had a fair and pro- longed trial. It has greatly disappointed the hopes of both surgeons and patients, and is now but little used in England. It is a tedious, painful, and very uncertain remedy. It is not fi-ee from danger, especially if the sharp electrode is plunged into the tumour or into the muscula- ture of the uterus. It is so used with the intention of producing a limited and aseptic necrosis of the part of the tumour into which it is plunged, but the process may be neither limited nor aseptic, and sometimes leads to destructive changes which may entail prolonged invalidism or even septicaemia. When the blunt electrode only is used, the effects of the elec- trolysis are confined to the mucous membrane, and in cases where there is haemorrhagic endo- metritis some improvement may be obtained. Surgical treatment includes operations applic- able to all the varieties of fibroids. To begin with the simplest operations on fibroid polypi— when of moderate size and extruded into the vagina these may be easily removed by avulsion or torsion of the pedicle. If the pedicle is thick, it is well to circumcise the mucous membrane and then to twist the fibrous pedicle remaining. This little operation, like all others, should be done with full aseptic care. In large or "enor- mous " polypi, where the pedicle cannot be