I 214 ULCERS AND ULCERATION resistance in the tissues. In some cases the tissue weakness results from the action of a specific pathogenic virus, as in tuberculosis, syphilis, or leprosy; while in others, so far as we at present know, it depends on impurities or deficiencies of the blood, as for example in the ulcers met with in patients suffering from diabetes, Bright's disease, scurvy, and gout. {a) The tuberculous ulcer so often seen in the neck, in the vicinity of joints, and over the ribs and sternum, usually results from the bursting of a tuberculous abscess through the skin. The base is soft, pale, and covered with feeble granu- lations and grey shreddy sloughs. The edges are of a dull blue or purple colour, and they gradually thin out towards their free mai'gins. But the most characteristic feature of the edges of this variety of ulcer is the fact that they are undermined, so that a probe can be passed for some distance between the floor of the ulcer and the thinned-out edges. Devitalised tags of skin often stretch from side to side of the ulcer. The outline of the ulcer is irregular, and small perforations often occur through the skin. A thin, watery discharge containing grey shreds of tubercular debris escapes. Pain is seldom present. In the disease known as lupus (vol. vi. p. 89) we have another form of tuberculous ulceration, resulting from the fusion of several broken-down tuberculous nodules. The resulting raw surface has a base similar in character to the last, but the edges, instead of being undermined, are studded over with small brown nodules which have not yet fused with the main area. [b) The syphilitic ulcer is usually formed by the breaking down of a cutaneous or subcutaneous gumma. It is at first covered by a tough, greyish slough, aptly compared to " wash- leather," which slowly separates and leaves a more or less circular, deep, punched-out surface, on which are seen a few feeble, unhealthy granulations and small sloughs. The edges are raised and indurated ; and the discharge is thick, glairy, and peculiarly off'ensive. The parts around the ulcer are congested and of a dark- brown colour. There are usually several such ulcers together, and as they tend to heal at one part while they spread at another, the affected area assumes a serpiginous outline. Syphilitic ulcers may be met with in any part of the body, but are most frequent in the upper part of the leg, especially around the knee-joint in women, and over the ribs and sternum. The cicatrix which results after healing is usually somewhat depressed. (c) The scorbutic ulcer occurs in patients suffering from scurvy, and is characterised chiefly by its marked tendency to bleed. {(i) In gouty patients small ulcers which are exceedingly irritable and painful occur. 5. Ulcers due to Malignant Disease.—It is necessary to mention here certain ulcerative conditions which occur in association with malignant disease. In scirrhus of the breast, epithelioma of the tongue or lip, and in sarcoma, for example, the skin or mucous membrane is liable to be invaded and destroyed by the growth which " fungates " and forms an open vascular sore. These are sometimes spoken of as malig- nant ulcers, but as they are essentially different in their nature from all other forms of ulcers, and call for totally different treatment, it is best to consider them as complications of the particular tumour and tissue in which they are met. The so-called rodent ulcer and the epi- thelioma of the skin are described elsewhere. B. Arrangement of Ulcers according to their Condition.—Having arrived at an opinion as to the cause of a given ulcer, and placed it in one or other of the above groups, the next question the surgeon has to ask himself is, " In what condition do I find this ulcer at the present moment ?" Any ulcer may be said to be in one of three states ; it is either healing, stationary, or spread- ing. It is true that we frequently find healing- going on at one part while the ulcer is spreading at another. 1. The Healing Ulcer.—The process of healing in an ulcer is brought about by the formation of granulation tissue, which becomes converted into fibrous tissue, and is covered over by epithelium growing in from the adjacent skin edges. The characters of an aseptic healing sore have already been described (p. 211), and we have seen that these characters constitute the ideal state of an vilcer. Save as a result of treatment, however, we seldom meet with ulcers in the healing state clinically. 2. Those that are stationary—that is, neither healing nor spreading—may be in one of several conditions. [a) The Weak Condition.—Any ulcer may get into a weak state from receiving a blood-supply which is defective either in quantity or in quality. The granulations on the base are small, smooth, and of a pale yellow or grey colour. The discharge is small in amount, and consists of thin serum and a few pus cells. This dries on the edges and forms a scab which prevents the growth of epithelium. Should the part become oederaatous, either from general causes, such as heart, kidney, or liver disease, or from local causes, such us vari- cose veins, the granulations share in the oedema, and a large quantity of thin serous discharge escapes, but no healing takes place. The excessive use of moist dressings leads to a third variety of weak ulcer, namely, one in which the granulations become large, soft, pale, and flabby, projecting beyond the level of the skin, and overlapping the edges, which become pale and sodden and cease to grow. This con-