UNDULANT FEVER 238 Pharmacopceia, and a good many not in it, have from time to time been vaunted as specifics. In the treatment of cases of undiilant fever there are three main points to be kept in mind, viz. (1) that the patient is suffering from a febrile disease, which is probably going to last for many weeks or even months; (2) that it is of the utmost importance that the patient's temperature should be regulated for him; and, lastly (3) that the heart should be assisted in its work by every possible means, as not only does the poison of this coccus affect the muscle fibre of the heart itself, but it seems to have a specially deleterious influence on the cardiac nerve-supply. The statement is often made that there is no treatment for undulant fever, and yet there are few diseases in which more can be done to ameliorate the patient's condition, by a careful attention to detail, and by basing the treatment on the three above-mentioned guiding principles. At the commencement of the attack the patient should be kept in bed, clothed in flannel because of the profuse sweating, and given a purgative. It is visual to prescribe some form of febrifuge mixture or an intestinal antiseptic ; the writer has found Burney Yeo's chlorinated quinine mixture the most suitable. After the first few days it will be seen what sort of a course the temperature is likely to run, and the treatment will vary somewhat accordingly. The medicinal treatment of this disease consists essentially in keeping the in- testinal tract clean and in a fit condition to digest and absorb food. Purgatives are required in the majority of cases, and a dose of ordinary sulphate of magnesia mixture taken the first thing every morning is a good routine treat- ment. Treatment of the Pyrexia.—is a point to which special attention should be given all through the disease, and there is no doubt that the most satisfactory results are obtained by lowering temperature by the external applica- tion of cold, either sponging with ice-cold water, ice-packing, or ice suspended in buckets on a cradle over the patient's body. The administra- tion of the usual antipyretic drugs—such as phenacetin, antifebrine, antipyrine—should be discouraged as much as possible in this disease, because of their depressant action on the circu- lation, as, where a patient's temperature is probably going to run up to unsafe limits very many times during perhaps very many weeks, it means very constant dosage with depressants of the circulation. The external application of cold should be made use of systematically and not spasmodi- cally, as when the patient's temperature has run up to 105° or 106°. The best system is to apply cold whenever a temperature goes above 103'6°, to bring the temperature down to about 101°, and then cease application of cold. The principle underlying this treatment is to pre- vent as much as possible the temperature getting to the heights where it throws excessive work on the circulatory system. If this system is adhered to throughout an attack of such a prolonged disease, the amount of work thrown upon the various organs of the body, and the amount of cellvilar wastage and general tissue irritation, must in the aggregate be enormously diminished. In some cases of high fever the external application of cold will not bring the tempera- ture down, even if continued till the patient's skin is blue and cold. In these cases, before having application to antipyretic drugs, the writer has often found that the administration of a copious enema, a pint and a half to two pints of ice-cold water, will have the desired effect of bringing down the temperature. Fail- ing these measures recourse must be had to drugs, and of these phenacetin in 5-grain doses is by far the most reliable. The writer made many experiments with the various anti- pyretic drugs in this disease, having the tem- peratures taken hourly for ten hours after the administration of a dose, and found that phen- acetin acted most regularly and constantly, its effect on the temperature usually being percep- tible for much longer (averaging seven hours), and its depressant effects on the circulation being less than in the case of other drugs. The treatment of the neuritis in this disease is on the whole extremely disappointing. When acute, the application of warmth gives the most relief; when subacute or chronic, the adminis- tration of salicylate and iodide of potash, small blisters along the course of the affected nerve, inunction with iodide of potash ointment, and a lot of other remedies, appear in some cases to do good, in others to have no effect at all. For the cardiac weakness and irritability strychnine gives the best results, but should be administered early, and not left till the heart is beginning to show signs of failure. The writer has found that it gives much more satisfactory results if given hypodermically, either once or twice daily for a few days, then omitted for a few days, and so on, according to the condition of the heart, than if taken by the mouth in the usual mixture. The real treatment of undulant fever consists in keeping the patient in such a condition that he will avoid many of the symptoms of the disease, especially the anaemia, the cardiac weak- ness, and the neuritis, and this can be done by feeding the patients properly, and so keeping up their strength, weight, and spirits. Two or three years ago the ordinary, and, in fact, universal dietary for these cases, was a fluid diet consisting of beef-tea and milk. It was supposed that solid food, even in the smallest quantity such as a few grains of rice in the patient's soup, at once made the tern-