VERTIGO 446 familiar variety, occurring either as the aura of a major attack or, it may be, constituting the chief evidence of the epileptic attack, in which the patient becomes suddenly giddy, falls to the ground, and may be unconscious. The writer has met with a case in which a young adult, after a single attack of " grand mal," was subject for several months to sudden attacks of momentary giddiness associated with overpowering fear, but without loss of conscious- ness. Vertigo is also met with in some cases of migraine, and in them, according to Dr. Liveing, it occurs after the visual phenomena and simultaneously with or following the head- ache. Sometimes vertigo replaces the attacks of migraine. Such cases are distinguished from the paroxysmal auditory vertigo about to be described, by the history of previous attacks of migraine and by the absence of tinnitus or deafness. Certain poisons act upon the centres for equi- libration. Amongst them the most familiar examples are alcohol and tobacco. Ursemic vertigo is to be included amongst the auto- intoxications, and probably so also are most cases of gastric vertigo, though some may be reflex, through stimulation of the vagus. Gastric vertigo is commoner in slight than in grave diseases of the stomach, and is associated with the ordinary symptoms of dyspepsia, such as pain and distension, perhaps vomiting. Sometimes the vertigo is suddenly relieved by gaseous eructation. But many so-called gastric cases on examination reveal some aural affection, so much so that Sir W. Gowers has questioned the existence of vertigo of purely gastric origin. Constipation is a frequent cause of giddiness, and it is a well-established fact that vertigo may sometimes be caused by intestinal para- sites, disappearing at once when the latter are expelled. Amongst other less common varieties may be mentioned nasal vertigo, which sometimes occurs in cases of recurring congestion of the turbinate bodies. Laryngeal vertigo, a somewhat doubt- ful variety, is said to occur in various laryngeal affections. Giddiness is often a symptom of neurasthenia and of hysteria, and in these affections it is frequently to be elicited by the slightest exciting cause; such, for example, is the probable explanation of the giddiness described as occurring on rectal examination or on compression of the testicle. A hereditary family form of giddiness has also been described. Ocular Vertigo.—This variety, though some- what rare, is quite definite. It is a form of giddiness occurring in cases of paralysis of any of the ocular muscles, and is associated with diplopia. The visual field being erroneously projected, the patient judges wrongly as to the relation of his body to objects seen. "Objects appear to be in certain positions where the patient's feet, as a matter of fact, fail to find them" (Hughlings Jackson). The giddiness in such cases is not due directly to the diplopia, for it persists when the sound eye is covered. (The condition can be imitated in health by closing one eye and displacing the other eye inwards by pressure with the finger, when, if the subject tries to walk along a straight line, the gait becomes very unsteady.) The explana- tion is to be found rather in the unusual effort on the part of the brain to turn the eyes in the direction of action of the paralysed muscle. Ocular vertigo, therefore, occurs only when the affected muscle is called into action. If the ocular palsy becomes permanent, the cerebral centres learn in time to neglect the erroi', and the giddiness then disappears. Aural Vertigo.—Abnormalities of the auditory apparatus undoubtedly constitute by far the commonest cause of giddiness. Thus, for ex- ample, we may have conditions in the external auditory meatus producing irritation or ob- struction with pressure on the tympanic mem- brane, as in accumulation of cerumen, foreign bodies in the meatus, or during ear-syringing, especially if a perforation of the drum be present. All these produce their effects by indirectly altering the pressure on the endolymph. Equally readily understood are the cases where the pathological process is in the middle ear, as in otitis media, obstruction of the Eustachian tube with diminished pressure, sneezing or blowing the nose, with consequent rise of pressure in the middle ear, also in paralysis of the stapedius or spasm of the tensor tympani muscle. Lastly, there is an important class of cases due to primary affection of the labyrinth itself without intermediation of the middle or outer ear. It is this particular variety to which Meniere called attention in 1861, and with which his name is commonly associated. M^NlilRE'S DISEASE Or LABYRINTHINE VERTIGO has three main groups of symptoms. Firstly, That due to affection of the semicircular canals, viz. giddiness with its associated motor phen- omena of reeling and sometimes abnormal ocular movements, the sensory stimulus in this case being transmitted along the vestibular root of the auditory nerve to the auditory nuclei (of which Deiters' nucleus is one) in the floor of the fourth ventricle, and thence to the cere- bellum. Secondly, Auditory phenomena, tin- nitus and deafness, due to affection of the ordinary path for hearing, along the cochlear or truly auditory part of the auditory nerve to the nucleus accessorius, thence along the strife acusticse, and ascending in the lemniscus up- wards to the brain without intermediation of the cerebellum. Thirdly, Associated bulbar or " vital" phenomena, explainable by affection of adjacent medullary centres, consisting in cardiac, vaso-motor, and secretory signs in the form of pallor, prostration, and even syncope, cold clammy sweat, nausea, and vomiting.