WHOOPING-COUGH 530 convulsions or paralytic symptoms after per- tussis pass off in a few weeks, the probability being that the hsemoTrhage has been capillary and small in amount. Fatal cases have been re- corded, proving the occurrence of hsemorrhages. Digestive System.—Ulcer of frsenum linguse, hernia, prolapsus ani, gastric and intestinal catarrh. In cases where the child does not vomit freely, but swallows quantities of the mucus loaded with micro-organisms, an irri- tative catarrh is set iip in the gastro-intestinal mucous tract, which often proves a serious com- plication. Nervous System.—The effects produced in the brain by minute meningeal haemorrhages have already been referred to, and also the less serious general effects of the toxin on the brain. These, of course, vary indefinitely according to consti- tutional tendencies of the child, delicate and hereditarily neurotic children suffering most severely. Horvem, in an elaborate monograph on the subject of the paralyses of pertussis, treats more particularly of the rarer forms, and finds that in addition to the cerebral conditions which are most commonly found, cases of bulbar origin are met with. He notes also the occurrence of paraplegia, and cases resembling Friedreich's ataxia and disseminated sclerosis and peripheral neuritis (polyneuritis). Apart from brain and lung lesions, pertussis in its immediate effects rarely leaves behind it any gross lesions of other organs. Perhaps the most important, because the most common, of the remote effects of this disease are manifested in general ill health and debility which often for many months affect the child, and this pre- disposes to one of the most serious and remote sequelae of this disease, tuberculosis. In the records of my hospital cases of tuberculosis this is plainly brought oat. No other disease, I believe, except measles, has such a powerful influence in preparing a soil for the ready reception of the tubercle bacillus. 'ino/ry System. — Transient albuminuria, probably due to congestive conditions, is not infrequent, and Gibb has pointed out the occa- sional occurrence of glycosuria. Treatment.—In these days of enlightened sanitary science much is being done to check the spread of and stamp out zymotic disease. In regard to pertussis, a disease which, roughly speaking, causes about a fourth of the mortality in children in the larger towns of Great Britain, practically nothing has been done. It has not yet been included in the list of notifiable diseases. Only in schools and public institutions has any attempt been made to isolate or stamp out this disease. Children are allowed to go about in public places, omnibuses, and tramcars, and railway carriages, coughing and vomiting on the public streets and thereby spreading the disease. Isolation is the only means at our disposal to limit the spread and stamp out the disease. Compulsory notification is a necessary first step in arousing the public to a realisation of the dangerous character of the disease in early life. So long as the old ideas prevail, which they do to a large extent, that children are just as well to "get over" such diseases as whooping-cough and measles, so long will this mortality continue. It is only by educating the public that we can hope to carry out a successful prophylaxis. As matters at present exist, what can be done'? Among the poorer classes the difficulties are well-nigh insuperable. There is no possibility of isolation in their own homes, and sufficient hospital accommodation is not available. Sanitary authorities should use all possible means to prevent children of one family associating with those of others in con- tiguous houses, so that the disease may be restricted in its spread to the family originally affected. It ought to be rendered penal to take children suffering from the disease to public places and into public conveyances. The sani- tary inspectors should see that the children in the affected house are under medical treatment, and that proper attention is directed to ventila- tion of the room and other hygienic measures. With regard to children of the better classes prophylaxis is more hopeful. Isolation in the house, if large enough, should at once be attended to, and the other children either removed alto- gether or kept strictly separate. In my own experience isolation can be successfully carried out in this way. The infection of pertussis requires more or less close contact, and its spread may be as successfully checked in this way as in scarlatina cases. Before removing imaffected children from the house, it is desirable that they should be quarantined in the house for a fortnight, after which time removal may be effected with less risk than in the case of immediate removal. Disinfection of the house and all articles of clothing worn by the child should be attended to, all carpets being taken up, and the floors mopped over with carbolic acid wash. In public institutions, with sick- room and hospital accommodation, isolation may be successfully carried out, the affected children being taken out daily if well enough, at a time when the other children are indoors. Curative Treatment. — In the treatment of pertussis it is necessary to bear in mind the nature of the disease, a zymotic affection of self-limited duration, with which we have to deal. Our efforts must be directed on general principles to guide the patient as safely through the various stages of the complaint as possible, and to ward off complications. No hard and fast rule can be laid down as applicable in all cases. Mild cases running a favourable course in from two to four weeks require little or no special treatment. In many of these, as has been already indicated, the second stage is