225 UNCONSCIOUSNESS states of nervous areas, and in 1894 Lepine suggested that possibly sleep {vide article " Sleep, Normal and Morbid) might be due to the retraction of cellular prolongations leading to their isolation from one another. In 1895 Duval argued that as imaginations, memory, and association of ideas become more active under the influence of certain agents (tea, coffee), whose functions would be to excite amoeboid movements in the contiguous ex- tremities of nerve-cells, it is therefore conceiv- able that the ramifications do approach each other and thereby facilitate the passage of im- pulses. The numerous experimental researches on fatigued animals appear to show that fatigue of the nervous elements brings about the isolation by retraction of the cellular prolonga- tions. The earliest anatomical researches upon the amoeboid movements of cells were carried on upon retinal and olfactory cells, and by analogy the theory of nervous amoeboidism holds good. The theory of nervi-nervorum, advanced to ex- plain how the arborisations can be incited to approach or separate from one another, finds favour with many writers. The theory assumes that centrifugal nerve-fibres preside over the protoplasmic movements of the ramifications of the nerve-cells in an analogous way to vaso- dilatation and vaso-constriction. For the evi- dences afi'orded as to the existence of these centrifugal nerve-fibres the reader must refer to the numerous works upon the subject, and he will find an able summary of the subject in Ford Robertson's text-book of Pathology, in which the matter is summarised in the statement that the present position of the controversy justifies the conclusion that no discovery that has yet been made really weakens the case for the neuron theory. Unconsciousness may be partial or complete. By " partial " is meant a suspension of psychical or physical elements which are necessary to a full or complete consciousness. By "complete " is meant the seriality of thought and discrimina- tion (or " knowledge") which is psychically available by reason of a concomitant structural contiguity of function within the cerebral cortex, whereby the translation of physical events, both external and internal, is fully operative. By fully understanding the mean- ing of these terms the subsequent attempts to deal with the complicated subject of double consciousness will be more comprehensive. Partial loss of consciousness is exemplified in those individuals who by reason of disorder or disease suffer from partial amnesia. It is commonly assumed that every recollection has its seat in a definite and determinate portion of the cerebral hemispheres. Each portion has its special function to perform, but is in inti- mate relation with its fellows. Ribot compares each particular form of memory with a contin- YOL. X gent of clerks charged with a special and ex- clusive service : any one of these departments might be abolished without serious detriment to the rest of the work, and that is what happens in these partial disorders of memory. It may be objected that in these partial amnesias there is not immediate loss of consciousness to present facts, but the answer to such an objection is manifest. Any present data which are incap- able of being incorporated with the general stream of consciousness, seriality of thought, or knowledge, by reason of discontiguity or dis- continuity of function of the neurons, are out- side the limit of "knowledge," and the reflex, if there be one, is the result of activities within the undamaged cerebral remainder, and there- fore only incomplete, and oftentimes merely automatic. The writer has elsewhere divided the forms of partial amnesia into two groups, viz. (Mental Physiology, p. 361):— (1) Those forms in which there is a loss of memory of a series of mental states, without any obvious interference with the activities of the mind as a whole; (2) those forms in which the loss is due to disease or injury of certain nerve-elements. Among the insane one meets with nearly every form of partial amnesia, and in general paralysis more especially do we find partial loss of consciousness of a class of events derived through the medium of the special senses. In idiots or imbeciles congenital defects of consciousness are common. The failure to register or interpret impressions through one or several of the special senses results in a perma- nent defect of consciousness and consequent failure in intellectual development. Before dis- cussing the various states of complete loss of consciousness or coma reference must be made to the various grades of so-called mental automa- tism, or double consciousness. Double Consciousness. — This condition has been compared to dream, somnambulistic, epilep- tic, amnesic, and insane states, and the writer has elsewhere cited instances of the various gradations between them and health ("Double Consciousness," Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 23, 1898). In childhood night terrors or somnam- bulism may precede a condition in which during the daytime there are moral or volitional per- versions, of which in the fully awake state there remains no memory or power to recall. These children usually belong to the group of unstable neurotics who may become criminal or insane according to surroundings. The writer finds much to be said in favour of the hypothesis that dual consciousness is only complete somnam- bulism. The successive awakening of the senses constitutes a gradation from ordinary sleep to complete somnambulism, which give to the in- dividual the appearance of leading a dual life. Questions of criminal responsibility arise in those cases in which criminal acts are committed in the hypnagogic or in the somnambulistic state.