366 UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE Although the ultimate results of cancer arising in the cervical endometrium or on the vaginal aspect of the cervix are the same, it will be advisable to discuss their pathologic features separately. It is necessary to mention that in the great majority of cases which come under observation, particularly in hospital practice, the disease has destroyed or eroded the neck of the uterus to such an extent that it is impossible to determine whether it arose in the cervical canal or in the epithelium of its vaginal aspect. Nevertheless, patients do occasionally come under observation at a sufficiently early stage to enable an exact localisation of the primary focus of the disease. In this way it has been determined that Infiltrated ovary. Fig. 6.—A cancerous uterus in sagittal section. The cancer arose in the cervical endometrium. (From the writer's book on Diseases of Women.) squamous-celled carcinoma of the cervix begins in much the same way as on the lips or tongue. It may appear as a circular ulcer with raised and everted edges, or it may erode the tissues deeply at the outset; exceptionally it forms luxurious warty excrescences. The growth quickly infiltrates the cervix (Fig. 5), extends to and implicates the vaginal wall, and then involves the connective tissue of the meso- metrium (broad ligament). Cancer arises in the epithelium in any part of the cervical canal or its glands, but it appears to be more prone to arise in the lower than in the upper half of the canal. It begins either as a deeply eroding ulcer, or as a soft, fungating, vascular, cauliflower - like outgrowth. Com- monly the cancer spreads, and after infiltrating the adjacent tissues of the cervix spreads into the mesometrium, and implicates the vaginal wall. It ulcerates early and destroys the cervix, and spreads into the body of the uterus, and in the late stages this organ may become hollowed out by ulceration, until nothing but a thin layer of muscle tissue covered by peri- toneum remains (Fig. 6). The microscopic features of cancer arising in the cervical epithelium consist of rounded spaces filled with columnar epithelium. This is due to the fact that the invasion of the tissues is due to columns and cylinders of epithelium, and in the microscopic sections these cell columns are cut at right angles. Cancer of the cervix leads to infection of the lumbar lymph glands. Dissemination is also frequent, and secondary deposits form in the lung, liver, and other organs; but deposits do not occur in the bones with the same frequency as in cancer of the mamma. The worst features of cancer of the neck of the uterus do not arise from dissemination, but are due to the slow and insidious way in which the growth impli- cates adjacent structures; and this demands attentive consideration, because it is this aspect of the disease which imposes very marked limitations to its surgical treatment. The neck of the uterus is in close relation in front with the bladder; posteriorly it is in contact with the rectum, and it has on each side of it a ureter. Another dangerous relation is the uterine artery which joins the cervix near the utero-vaginal junction. A careful study of the clinical facts connected with cancer of the neck of the uterus demonstrates that its more lethal character, considered apart from its frequency, as compared with cancer of the body of the uterus, is due to the secondary effects resulting from the implication particu- larly of the bladder, ureters, and uterine arteries (Fig. 7). The occurrence of the many serious complications of cancer of the cervix is mainly determined by the primary position of the lesion. For example, if the cancer begins on the posterior aspect of the vaginal surface it will, whilst it is deeply eroding the cervix, extend to the posterior vaginal wall, infiltrate the recto-vaginal septum, and either lead to a ffecal fistula or obstruct the bowel. On the other hand, it may start on the anterior surface and involve the vesico-vaginal wall, lead to cystitis, which may spread to the ureters and infect the renal pelvis, producing pyelitis, or in many instances render the patient extremely miserable by perforating the bladder, and pro- ducing a vesico-vaginal fistula. When the disease begins in the cervical canal it exhibits a tendency, so marked in cancer of the intestine, to circumscribe the canal, and at the same time it infiltrates the tissues adjacent to the cervix, and in this way implicates the base of the bladder and one or both ureters. In