TONGUE 40 and sweet. For this purpose the writer has found nothing better than Condy's fluid. The patient should be fed as soon as possible after the operation. When there is pain or difficulty in swallowing rectal feeding may be employed for a day or two, but the sooner the patient gets food in the ordinary way the better. The food should be administered through a rubber tube attached to the spout of a feeding-cup, and passed well back into the pharynx. After each diet the mouth must be thoroughly douched to remove any fragments of putrescible material. The purification of the mouth is greatly facilitated if the patient can sit up in bed. This posture is also advantageous in warding oft' septic lung complications, by preventing the discharges gravitating towards the air passages. As soon as the effects of the aneesthetic have passed off, therefore, he should be propped up in bed with pillows. The patient is usually able to be on the sofa in five or six days, and is practically well by the end of three weeks. Sarcoma The tongue is very seldom the seat of sar- coma. When this form of tumour occurs it is usually of the lympho-sarcomatous type, and corresponds to similar growths met with in the tonsils. The small, round - celled form also occurs. The tumour may begin either in the muscular substance of the tongue or in the sub- mucous tissue. Both forms tend eventually to fungate through the mucous membrane. The diagnosis is always difficult, and is seldom certain before removal and examination of the tumour. In all suspicious cases full removal of the tumour and the portion of the tongue in which it grows is to be recommended. Some tumours show little tendency to recur after removal, while others are extremely malignant. Innocent Tumours Innocent tumours of the tongue are rare. The only forms that call for mention are lipoma, fibroma, angioma, and papilloma. Lipomata usually occur in males beyond the age of sixty. They may be single or multiple, localised or diffuse. They are of slow growth, soft, or semifluctuating, and present the same lobulated character as do fatty tumours in other situations. In many cases a diagnosis can only be made after exposing the growth by an incision. The treatment consists in shelling out the tumour. Fibromata are met with at all ages, but are most frequently seen in adults. They usually occur on the dorsum of the tongue, and are not unfrequently multiple. Thej'^ may become ped- unculated, particularly when they originate in the submucous tissue. As the growth is made up largely of cellular tissue, it is soft to the touch and simulates a lipoma, or even a cystic swelling. It only causes inconvenience by its size, filling the mouth and interfering with speaking and eating. The treatment consists in removing the growth. Angiomata.—Several varieties of angiomata are met with on the tongue, the most common being the capillary and venous nsevi. As a rule the tumour is small, affecting only a part of one side of the tongue and giving rise to no trouble. In rarer cases it implicates a con- siderable area of the tongue, and by its size interferes with speaking and eating. It is also liable to be injured by the teeth, and so give rise to htemorrhage and septic complications. Small growths which are causing no trouble may safely be left alone. If situated on the edge of the tongue, and liable to cause bleeding by being bitten, a small wedge-shaped portion of the tongue, including the nsevus, should be excised. Extensive nsevi may call for excision of the portion of the tongue implicated. As the operation is likely to be attended with copious bleeding, preliminary ligature of the Unguals or temporary occlusion of the external carotids should be employed. Papillojiiata, or warty growths, are not un- common on the tongue. They are frequently associated with a patch of leukoplakia, and their chief importance lies in the fact that they are liable to become epitheliomatous. In all cases the growth should be removed by carrying an elliptic incision around its base. The wound on the tongue is closed with a few catgut stitches. Among the rarest forms of tumour of the tongue may be mentioned fibromyoma, rhabdo- myoma, osteoma, and chondroma. CYSTS Dermoid cysts are occasionally met with underneath the tongue. They lie on the upper surface of the mylohyoid, between the genio- hyo-glossi muscles. Histologically they present the same characters as in other situations. They may be noticed soon after birth, or may only attract attention in adult life. The tumour usually forms a swelling under the chin, varying in size from a pigeon's to a turkey's egg. When it bulges towards the mouth it may simulate a retention cyst of the salivary glands, from which, however, it differs in that it is more deeply placed, pits on pressure, and presents a yellowish instead of a purplish appearance. The treatment consists in excising the tumour, preferably from the outside. Hydatid and Cysticercus cysts are very rarely met with in the tongue. THYRO-GLOSSAL CYSTS AND TUMOURS It is convenient here to refer to certain cysts and solid tumours which may develop in con- nection with the embryonic tract, which passes from the isthmus of the thyroid gland to the