529 WHOOPING-COUGH During this time the patient is apparently in average health. The ordinary symptoms of the disease com- mence with the catarrhal stage, in which the child appears to suffer from a " cold," with slight cough, often of a short, hacking char- acter, catarrhal discharge from the nostrils and sneezing, and congestion of the conjunctivae with " watering of the eyes." If the tempera- ture be taken at this stage it is found to be slightly elevated, perhaps not over 100°, for a few hours during the day. There is more or less anorexia, with sliglitly furred tongue, and a tendency to, or perhaps the actual occurrence of, nausea and vomiting. The child is generally irritable and fretful, and the sleep disturbed. The duration of this stage varies. In severe cases it is generally short, perhaps only two or three days; in moderately severe cases it may continue from one to two weeks, or even longer ; and in some cases, and these are frequent in mild epidemics, the disease never passes on to the second or convulsive stage, and convalescence may be established in from a fortnight to three weeks. It is important to remember this in re- lation not only to diagnosis, but prophylaxis, as these cases spread the disease as readily as the more severe or fully developed cases, and should be isolated accordingly. The spasmodic or convulsive stage is evidenced by the full development of the characteristic cough. During the catarrhal stage the cough is of a short and irritable character, occurring at irregular intervals, but cannot be said to possess any specially distinctive symptoms on which a positive diagnosis could be based. In this stage the cough is highly characteristic, and its true nature is readily apparent even to a casual observer. It occurs at intervals of toler- able regularity, and is always more frequent at night. The number of paroxysms vary in- finitely according to the severity of the disease, from twelve or twenty to thirty or forty, or even more, in the twenty-four hours. The child is aware of its onset for a short time previously, and displays a certain restlessness and irrita- bility. When the cough begins the child, if old enough, prepares to support itself by laying hold of anything that may be at hand, such as a chair or other article of furnitui'e. The cough commences by a rapid succession of expiratory efforts, succeeded by a long inspiration, during which the whooping sound is produced by the sudden rush of inspired air through the partially relaxed glottis. This is followed by the ex- pectoration of viscid tenacious mucus, or by vomiting, during which the stomach is emptied of its contents. During the cough the child's face becomes much congested, often livid, giving the appearance of impending suffocation. There may be bleeding from the mouth, nose, ears, or any of the mucous surfaces. After the fit the child is more or less exhausted, but often re- VOL. X sumes its playfulness in a very short time. The action of the heart during the fit is much accelerated, and the pulse rapid. Auscultation of the lungs shows generally coarse, moist sounds in the larger bronchi, which usually disappear after the fit. The child's face during this stage of the disease is usually characteristic, presenting often a more or less congested appear- ance, especially of the conjunctivae, with puffi- ness of the eyelids. In young infants the con- vulsive paroxysm of this stage of the disease presents a somewhat different picture; the convulsive efforts may be described as more of a tonic nature, in contradistinction to the clonic and interrupted spasm of the older child, the glottis seems to close rapidly, and the whole muscular respiratory apparatus, intrinsic and extrinsic, seems to be in a state of tonic con- traction, during which the infant is veritably in a state of suffocation. On relaxation of the spasm there is seldom any whooping sound produced. Complications and Sequels. — These are numerous and important, as it is the complicated disease that causes fatality. Respiratory System.—Emphysema and pul- monary collapse go hand in hand, and are the direct result of the spasmodic effort during the second stage. In a few rare cases we meet with interstitial pulmonary emphysema, which can only be recognised during life when the air gets into the peribronchial tissues and passes to the anterior mediastinum, showing itself in the jugular fossa and at the root of the neck as subcutaneous emphysema. Bronchitis of the larger tubes is present in most cases, and if the medium and smaller branches of the air tubes are unaffected it is of little moment. When the capillary bronchi and the alveoli are attacked we are face to face with one of the most fatal complications, per- tussis pneumonia, caused by the pertussis bacillus and other organisms. Circulatory System.—In severe cases the strain on the heart is great, and yet it is seldom the organ suffers in a serious degree. Not un- frequently dilatation of the right ventricle results, and the child suffers for a time from pulmonary regurgitation and other symptoms of inadequacy of the right heart. Dr. Cima, in investigating the condition of the blood in per- tussis, finds leucocytosis present in all well- marked cases. HcBmorrhages are frequent in almost any part of the body. Thus we have epistaxis, sub- conjunctival hgemorrhage, slight streaky haemor- rhages from the fauces tinging the expectorated mucus, haemorrhages from the ears, a rare occurrence, cerebral haemorrhages, almost in- variably meningeal, producing different varieties of cerebral symptoms, convulsions, hemiplegia, monoplegia, or other forms of localised paralysis, or affection of the special senses. As a rule 34