94 TRADES, DANGEROUS headache in the morning. The girls and young women who dip balloons and tobacco-pouches in the bisulphide suiTer from headache and vomit- ing, accompanied by dizziness, and they com- plain of tasting the nauseous compound in their food. On going home from the factory at night they sometimes stagger and reel as if intoxicated. They even fall. After reaching home they are so tired that they often go to sleep before touching their evening meal. This sleep is heavy and unrefreshing. Next morn- ing they proceed to their work languid and feeling nervous and shaky. They do not feel comfortable until they have again inhaled some of the vapour of the bisulphide. Upon some of the workers the carbon compound exercises a more injurious influence than that just de- scribed. It causes aciite mania. Often the outburst is as sudden as it is unexpected, and in their frenzy affected work-people have been known to throw themselves fi'om the top story of a factory. Bisulphide of carbon also causes temporary loss of vision; in some instances it acts as an ecbolic, while upon j'oung women it occasionally induces symptoms of a peculiar hysterical nature—a mixture of hysteria and intoxication. This toxic hysteria, like that which occurs in plumbism, is often the prelude to a deeper and more serious form of poisoning, and should on no account be underestimated. Diagjiosis.—In acute cases the history of the occupation of the patient and the presence of a disagreeable odour that may possibly be about his clothes would suggest bisulphide of carbon poisoning. The bilateral character of the paralysis would also suggest poisoning, but not its cause. Absence of blue line on the gums would show that it was probably not due to lead. The affected limbs are not so tender to the grasp as in arsenical poisoning. Speak- ing generally, apart from the history of the case, it would be difficult to say what is the cause of the paralysis. Treatment.—(1) Preventive. Removal of the patient from work. Free ventilation of the workroom and withdrawal of the vapours away from the face of the workers by means of fans. Alternation of employment in the factory. (2) Medicinal. In the acute forms of poison- ing bromide of potassium with sulphate of magnesia; for paralysis massage should be tried and the application of electricity; inter- nally nux vomica or liq. strychniee supported by a liberal diet. Inflammable Paints and Benzine Inflammable Paints.—The use of composite or spirit paints has been frequently followed by symptoms of poisoning in men engaged in painting ships' holds or confined spaces in ships. These composite paints dry very quickly, and in consequence they are much in demand for ships, to the owners of which time is money. The drawbacks to these spirit paints are mainly two : (a) they are so very inflammable that a man cannot or ought not to be allowed to work with them in a confined space with a naked light; {b) since they contain large quantities of petroleum or methylated spirit combined with benzine, inhalation of the vapour causes the workmen to become intoxicated, and sometimes to be violently sick. In several instances the men, overcome by stupor, have been unable to leave the compartment, and have had to be removed by means of ropes. On bringing them up to the deck the workmen have been found to be imconscious, to be pale rather than cyanosed, and they have vomited, the vomited matter smelling strongly of the spirit paint. • Some of the men, too, have had epistaxis. After being roused into consciousness not a few of them have lapsed into a deep sleep for several hours. Treatment.—Too great care cannot be exer- cised so as to prevent the vapours from the paints catching fire. No naked lights should be allowed where men are using them, nor should the men be allowed to work in close and confined compartments for more than an hour or two at a time. They should come out into the open air. On taking up this particular kind of work the dangers of the occupation ought to be clearly pointed out to the men by their employers. Where the symptoms are those of acute intoxication the best treatment is to place the patient in as pure air as possible, so that he may, by ventilating his lungs, rid his blood of the deleterious vapour, care being taken in cold weather to have the body well covered with rugs to avoid being chilled. Subsequently a saline aperient should be administered. Benzine. — Soiled gloves and garments are cleaned by means of benzine in " dry cleaning " establishments. Occasionally naphtha is used for the same purpose. Benzine is a very in- flammable and highly explosive compound. Fires break out during the summer months in dry-cleaning establishments in the most un- accountable manner. They have been attri- buted to friction, and to electric sparks, while in a few instances they have doubtless been due to accidental ignition of lucifer matches concealed in the clothing sent to be cleaned. As a rule, all the pockets of the clothes are turned inside out and all metallic buttons are removed before the clothing is placed in the revolving cylinders that contain the benzine. Two risks are run by the work-people: (1) danger from fire and explosion ; (2) effects due to inhalation of the benzine. Too great caution cannot be exercised in regard to the manipula- tion of benzine. There should be no naked lights about at the time it is being handled. Benzine, when inhaled, often causes young female workers to become extremely hysterical,