170 TUMOURS OF THE SKIN Melanotic Sarcoma.—This well-known con- dition may arise in pigmented moles. It is intensely malignant, and may lead to the formation of numerous growths in the skin, varying in size from peas to filberts, and also attack the viscera, with a rapidly fatal result. It is of the greatest importance, therefore, to remove at once any mole that is grow- ing, becoming more deeply pigmented or ulcerating, for if not dealt with early a fatal result will certainly ensue. Tinkering treatment is especially to be reprobated in such cases. Under the name of melanotic whitlow, Hutchinson has described a form which begins as a chronic onychitis, with very little pig- mentation, followed by the formation of a fungating tumour. Generalisation rapidly takes place. Idicqmthic multiple pigmented Sarcoma.—This condition, extremely rare as far as this country is concerned, but more frequent in Austria, Russia, and Italy, was first described by Kaposi. Since the fact has been made out that the coloration is due to blood, the designation of Kobner, sarcoma idiopathicum multiplex hse- morrhagicum, is more to the point, and has been accepted by Kaposi. The disease apparently affects Jews in a special manner. One of the cases observed in England was a Jew from Poland. But it affects non-Jewish individuals also. It first attacks the soles and palms, hands and feet, and gradually and successively the forearms and legs, arms and thighs. It may spread to the face and trunk. The tumours are brownish-red to bluish-red, vary in size from a shot to a hazel nut. Their surface is smooth and their consistence firm and elastic. They remain either discrete or coalesce. They may undergo some involution, or break down from gangrene. Towards the last other parts become involved, mucous membranes of mouth, and so forth, as may also the liver, etc., the disease going on altogether for two, three, or more years before death closes the scene. Recovery may in rare instances take place. Males are more frequently attacked than females, and the younger the patient the more rapidly fatal is the disease. Histologically they are very vascular, spindle- celled sarcomata, with hfemorrhages and de- position of pigment, occurring in them. As to treatment, the only thing that has proved of any avail is arsenic in subcutaneous injections. This was first introduced by Kobner. He used a solution of liq. arsenicalis in the strength of one part to two of aq. dest., and injected two and a half to four drops once a day, raising the dose to seven and a half and nine drops. This treatment requires to be carried out steadily for months. Cacodylic compounds might be tried in the same way, but with care. In the case of non-pigmented sarcoma, cutis, the growths may be very numerous, but they are mostly subcutaneous in situation, and the result of generalisation from internal sarcoma. A sarcomatous development has occurred as a complication of Recklinghausen's disease {i.e. the association of multiple fibromata, neuro-fibro- mata, and pigmentation of the skin). Congenital multiple sarcomata cutis is ex- tremely rare. An interesting case of the kind was observed in Dr. RadclifFe-Crocker's clinic. University College Hospital. It occurred in the practice of Dr. Jordan Harvey. Some of the growths were examined by Fernet. There were seventy growths about the face, back, and flexor aspect of limbs. Histologically they were of the small, round-cell variety, very vascular (angeio-sarcomata), and situated in the corium. Unfortunately no necropsy was per- mitted, so it could not be decided whether the growths were primary or secondary. One or two other cases have been recorded, but Ramdohr's was most like the one just referred to, and in that case the kidneys and lungs contained growths also. C. Boeck of Christiania has given the name of multiple benign sarcoid of the skin to a con- dition which may be considered in this place, benign though it be. It consists of a wide- spread, symmetrical eruption about the head and extensor surfaces of trunk and extremities. It is made up of firm nodules, varying in size from a hemp-seed to a bean. They involve the whole skin, and are movable with it. In ad- dition, the lymphatic glands are much swollen, and there is a slight increase in the number of white corpuscles. Histologically it has affinities with sarcoma, and also with rare cases of so- called pseudo-leuktemia. This benign sarcoid clears up under arsenic or spontaneously. In leukceinia, the skin may become aflPected by growths varying from a pin-head to a hazel nut in size, discrete or confluent, pale to brownish- red in colour, and distributed about the face, trunk, and extremities. The growths are made up of lymphoid cells. Growths have also been described in pseudo-leukcemia, but Nekam and Pinkus differ in their conclusions. Tumours of the skin occur in mycosis fungoides in the various forms of that complaint, either in the later stages, or they may be the first mani- festation {forme a tumeurs d'emblee of French writers); or again in the course of the so-called lymphodermia perniciosa (of Kaposi), now in- cluded under mycosis fungoides. The growths may attain the size of a mandarin orange, and do not recur after removal. German writers include this disease a la suite of sarcomatosis cutis. But as it has been shown that it is micro- scopically of granulomatous structure (and named for that reason granuloma fungoides by J. F.