URIC ACID 263 training, and he rightly associates it with the febrile state and its accompanying diminished renal secretion. Not only do uric acid and its salts tend to separate out from such a slightly acid fluid as the urine, but they also under abnormal conditions are deposited in the alkaline reacting tissues. In this article special stress will be laid upon the physical and chemical characters, the prob- able modes of origin, and the relationship to certain important pathological conditions. In studying what may be called the physiology of uric acid, one is brought face to face with some of the most important problems in metabolism, and it is absolutely essential for all who aim at acquiring an accurate knowledge of the changes which nitrogenous foodstuffs undergo after ab- sorption to have a good grasp of the life-history of uric acid. Physical and Chemical Characters.-—It is in an impure condition that the acid and its salts separate out from the urine, but when examined free from pigments, etc., it forms a white powder, which may easily be obtained as transparent rhombic plates. In a urinary de- posit, however, uric acid is always pigmented, having carried down usually the pigment uro- erythrin along with urochrome or urobilin—the so-called " cayenne pepper " deposit. It is always in crystalline form, the appearance of the crystals varying greatly from a lozenge shape, through many intermediate forms, to the barrel shape (rhombic plates or rods, daggers, rosettes, cubes, dumb-bells, etc.). If there be a percentage increase in the amount of urates in the urine, although there may be no de- position at body temperature, a precipitate of a yellow to a reddish-brown colour gradually separates out as the urine cools—the "brick- dust" deposit. This, of course, disappears when the urine is warmed above body tempera- ture. In an ammoniacal urine the acid separates out in the form of an acid ammonium urate, sometimes masses of dumb-bell crystals or spheri- cal accumulations of needles. Acid sodium urate, although usually in amorphous form when occurring in a urinary deposit, is now and then met with in crystalline form as spherules with processes—" thorn apple " crystals. In all uric acid or urate deposits the normal pig- ment of the urine, urochrome, is present as the colouring agent, often but not always associated with uroerythrin. There is a less soluble salt of uric acid than the biurate, namely, the quadriurate, which is formed by the action of the diphosphates of the alkalies on the biurate. This triacid urate (NaHU, H2U) usually occurs in amorphous form, now and then as a gelatinous cloud, which on microscopic examination is seen to be composed of radially striated spheres. It is very easily decomposed, for example, by means of hot water or neutral salt solutions, into the biurate and uric acid if no additional base be present. The biurates separate out either in the form of an amorphous deposit, small spherules, collections of small acicular or prismatic crystals. In order of solubility the salts of lithium come first, then potassium, sodium, ammonium, calcium, and magnesium. In all cases the neutral salts are most soluble, then the biurates, while the least soluble are the quadriurates. Uric acid is less soluble than any of these, as one would expect, one part requiring approxi- mately 1600 parts of boiling water or 16,000 parts of cold water to keep it in solution. The neutral salts of the alkalies do not occur in the urine as they so rapidly undergo decomposition. From the formula of uric acid it is apparent that there are two urea residues, with a central three-carbon chain, and so it has been termed a diureid of trioxyacrylic acid; but from E. Fischer's researches its constitution has been brought more into line with other important bodies of a similar nature occurring in the organism, the so-called xanthin series. Uric acid may be regarded according to this nomen- clature as a trioxypurin, a derivative of the hypothetical 9C—N ring "purin." Thus, 0 H iN-C I I „C .C—,N 3N 4C-9N o=c c=o N—C— H H (Uric acid). That is to say, this acid may be regarded as a 2, 6, 8 trioxypurin, xanthin as a dioxypurin, and hypoxanthin as an oxypurin. It is of very great assistance to possess this knowledge of the close chemical relationship existing between these bodies when the physiological connection between them is studied. As there is, of course, the possibility that in the animal organism there are means of synthetically producing uric acid from simpler bodies, it is important to discover how it may be synthetically formed outside the organism. Horbaczewski formed it synthetically from urea and glycocoll, an exceedingly important synthesis from the physiological standpoint. 3CO(NH2)2 + CH2. NH2. COOH = C5H4N4O3 -I-2H2O-1-3NH3. It was also formed synthetically from trichlor- lactic acid, or its amide and urea. Both these syntheses are of great interest, as there is no reason why they should not be carried out in the animal organism. Thus from a chemical knowledge of the means by which the acid might be formed without the aid of living tissues, investigators began to pay