VISION, THE FIELD OF 486 with as a primary condition, and frequently occurs in connection with disease of the central nervous system. In tabes dorsalis atrophy may occur early or late in the course of the disease, and often leads to blindness. In disseminated sclerosis central scotoma is more common, while the deterioration of vision is less uniformly serious than in tabes. Lateral sclerosis and general paralysis of the insane are also associated with atrophy. The field of vision for white frequently be- comes reduced in a concentric manner, though a more rapid encroachment towards one side more often takes place. The field for white takes no typical form, either with the ordinary perimetric test or with Bjerrum's test. When tested with red or green it is found that the field for colour is reduced out of proportion to that for white. The condition of colour vision varies consider- ably in different cases of optic atrophy. When Eight Eye. Chart 12.—Scotomatous atrophy with periplieral restriction of the field. the field for white shows peripheral restriction, and the area over which colours are recognised is much reduced, the prognosis is unfavourable. When central scotoma is present vision is often very much reduced, or central vision lost, yet if the peripheral extent of the field is full, and the colour restriction slight, the prognosis is relatively good, as such a condition may remain iit statu quo for years. When optic atrophy is not secondary to disease of the choroid or retina, but has begun primarily in the nerve, examination of the light-sense is of value in distinguishing it from chronic simple glaucoma. In optic atrophy the light difi^'erence is reduced, while the light minimum is little affected. The reverse condition obtains in glaucoma. Field in Glaucoma.—The form of the field of vision for white, as recorded with the ordin- ary perimeter, may vary widely, and although there are certain forms of restriction which are more common, it is often necessary to carry the investigation farther by making the test with colours. In glaucoma it has been shown that while the restriction of the field for colour is greater than that for white, it is on the whole approxi- mate to the normal relationship. On the other hand, in optic atrophy the colour restriction is relatively greater than for white, often markedly so. A good idea of the types of the field for white, and their relative frequency of occurrence, may be derived from the investigations of Bange (Berry), who gives the result of examining over 100 cases. 1. Defect in the nasal side alone—27 cases. 2. Defect most marked on nasal side—44 cases. 3. Destruction of field, including the centre, and having only a small temporal portion— 9 cases. 4. Remaining field in the foi-m of a peri- papillary oval—4 cases. 5. A central or paracentral scotoma, with or Right Eye. Chart 13.—Giving the field for white and for red as taken in a case of glaucoma. without slight restriction of nasal margin— 4 cases. 6. Concentric restriction—6 cases. 7. Preponderance of defect on temporal side— 4 cases. 8. Restriction only upwards—2 cases. From the above it will be seen that although the form of the field may vary widely, yet in a large proportion of the cases the nasal field is affected most (71 per cent of above). Difficulties of diagnosis occur chiefly in con- nection with the simple chronic cases of glau- coma, and as it is in this class of case that the loss of the nasal field is of most frequent occur- rence, a preponderance of loss on the nasal periphery of the field may be regarded as the common type. The chart, taken from an actual case, may prove useful {see Chart 13). When in glaucoma the field is examined by Bjerrum's method (which has been alreadj' outlined), certain interesting and important features appear. The final importance of the result to be gained by this method perhaps demands further corroborative proof, yet its