431 VENEREAL DISEASE of inoculation cicatrises. Serpiginous ulcera- tion in this country is often associated with previous syphilitic infection, and always occurs in unhealthy people. It is treated consti- tutionally, as if the patient had tertiary syphilis; locally, by thoroughly scraping and disinfecting the surface and edges of the ulcer. An analogous condition, which is certainly not syphilitic, is known as ulcerating granuloma of the pudenda (see p. 432). Allied Diseases.—Certain affections have always been branded as venereal, though in many instances pathology has relegated them to very different classes, and has shown that they are not necessarily contracted during sexual intercourse. Venereal ivarts are perhaps the best known of these allied affections. They are papillomata found about the genital organs. They grow at the coronary sulcus, at the inner surface and margin of the foreskin, near the frgenum and at the meatus in men, whilst in women the labia, the urethra, and the margins of the anus are the commonest seats of growth. They may arise de novo from various causes of local irritation, and their growth is favoured by heat and moisture. They occur in two varieties, the hard and the soft warts. Hard warts are often small in size, TDright red in colour, round or pointed in shape; soft warts vary in size from minute points to enormous cauliflower-like masses. Both hard and soft warts are usually multiple. They are convertible one into the other, and both, unless they are kept clean, may produce a very foul discharge. Such warts grow rapidly in pregnant women and dwindle again after delivery. There is reason to suppose that venereal warts are contagious in some cases, but it is necessary for the recipient of the infection to supply a proper soil, as it is not every skin or mucous membrane that will grow warts. Treatment.—The following applications have often given me good results in the slighter forms of venereal warts:—(1) R Pulv. cupri. sulphatis, pulv. foliorum salsinse, amyli, aa, partes sequales. Fiat pulvis. Signa. Dust the powder over the warts on four successive evenings, and wash away the secretion with soap and warm water twice a day. (2) R Tannin, caraphorge, pulv. foliorum sabinse, aa oss., pulv. zinci oxidi gvj. Fiat pulvis. Signa. To be dusted over the warts night and morning for fourteen days. It is often necessary to remove the growths by operative measures, and it should be remem- bered that mere ligature and snipping the warts off is insufficient. The surface from which they grow should first be painted with a 10 per cent solution of hydrochlorate of cocaine, and it should then be scraped thoroughly with a sharp spoon, a dry dressing of iodoform or cyanide gauze being afterwards applied. The bases of the large cauliflower excrescences must be dissected out whilst the patient is under a general anaesthetic, the wound being sutured in the usual manner. Cleanliness, in every case, is a great feature in the treatment of warts, and all irritating discharges over the skin or mucous membrane upon which they grow should be stopped as quickly as possible. The persistence of warts in old people will naturally raise a suspicion of epithelioma. Frambcesia—known in its different localities as yaws, paraugi, pateh, pian, buba, Tonga, verruga, coko, purru, and Amboyna button—is one of the best known affections allied to venereal disease. It is endemic in many tropical countries, all its names appearing to have their origin in some African dialect. {See "Yaws.") Radesyge is known in Norway as spedalsked. It was long described as a form of syphilis, but it is now classed with leprosy. It occurs on the sea-coast of Norway, Sweden, Iceland, and Greenland, and is characterised by an ulceration of the nose, mouth, and fauces, which super- ficially resembles the ulceration of syphilis. Cleanliness, good food, and warm clothing form the prophylactic treatment. Sarsaparilla with small doses of mercury may be given with ad- vantage, and the sores should be dressed with boric fomentations. Sibbens was endemic for a long time in the south of Scotland, though it seems now to be extinct. It attacked infants, who transmitted it to their nurses. The eruption was a fun- gating, copper-coloured growth, associated with ulceration of the palate and an aphthous ulcera- tion of the mucous membrane of the mouth. The eruption on the skin was widely distributed and usually scabbed. Alibert described the disease as a syphilitic mycosis, but it is probable that its true pathology will never be known. Scherlievo, or the mal de Fiume, appears to have been syphilis occurring amongst an un- protected and poverty-stricken population. It derives its name from the small village on the shores of the Adriatic where it was noticed to be epidemic in June 1800. The first symptoms were pains in the bones, especially at night; the pains were followed in a fortnight or three weeks by dysphagia and hoarseness, with the appearance of rounded ulcers on the velum palati and on the inner sides of the cheeks and lips. Large coppered-coloured spots appeared upon various parts of the body, which under- went deep and extensive ulceration. The dis- ease was contagious, and one attack protected. Mercury was curative when administered in- ternally. Falcadina presents many points of resem- blance to scherlievo. It was first observed at Facaldo, a village in the Austrian Tyrol, about 1786. It became epidemic, and was propagated by sexual intercourse. The disease was char- acterised by ulcerating pustules with blennor-