TYPHOID FEVER 181 loopful of a 24-hours-old culture of the typhoid bacillus in neutral Bouillon, and the mixture examined under the high power of the micro- scope by the hanging-di-op method. If the patient is suffering from typhoid the organisms will become motionless and adhere together in clumps. This may take place im- mediately, but it usually requires from a few minutes to half an hour for the agglutination to be complete. Under exceptional circum- stances it may be delayed for one or two hours. If the patient is not suffering from typhoid the organisms remain actively motile for hours, and do not form clumps. 2. Microscopically (sedimentation test).—This method, although it requires longer time for its completion, has the advantage that it can be observed with the naked eye. The dilution of the serum and its addition to the bacterial culture can be most accurately made in the straight capillary tube suggested by Wright. The serum is drawn up to a fixed mark on the capillary tube and blown out into a glass capsule. Normal serum or normal saline is next drawn up to the same mark a number of times in succession, and mixed with the serum until half the number of dilutions is obtained. Equal quantities of this mixture and a 24- hours-old broth culture of the typhoid bacillus is aspirated into a bulb at the upper end of the tube, and, after well mixing, is blown out in one long column into the capillary tube, the end of which is sealed off. A control tube containing an equal quantity of the bacterial culture and normal serum or normal saline is made in the same manner. The two tubes are kept upright for 12 or 24 hours—at the end of that time, if the serum is taken from a patient suffering from typhoid, the fluid becomes clear—the organisms forming a fiocculent sediment at the bottom of the liquid. The fluid in the " control" remains uniformly turbid, and there is no sedimentation. [The Nature of Infection with the Typhoid Bacillus.—It has recently been definitely shown that Eberth's bacillus is constantly present in the blood stream from the onset of an attack of typhoid fever. By using appropriate cultural methods it can be demonstrated in nearly all cases during the first week of the disease; during the later stages (third and fourth weeks) it is less frequently present, and it disappears as the temperature falls. If relapse occurs the bacilli reappear. The organism can always be detected in the blood before the Widal test can be determined. Two further points recently established are that in typhoid patients the organisms are excreted by the liver into the bowel along with the bile, and that they may enter the gall-bladder and go on growing there. Typhoid fever, therefore, should be regarded as a bacillccmia with secondary invasion of the intestines. This theory harmonises with the previously known fact that typhoid bacilli cannot be recovered from the fseces during the early period of the disease, as well as with the more recent discovery that they can sometimes be isolated from the blood of persons who are only in the incubation stage. Bacilli which enter the gall-bladder set up a certain degree of cholecystitis, which favours their perpetuating their existence in this organ, and after recovery from the disease patients may harbour virulent bacilli in their gall- bladders for months or even years. Forster has demonstrated bacilli in the motions of patients ten and twenty years after infection, and such cases are known as " chronic infection carriers." They number from 2 to 3 per cent of all cases of typhoid. That this prolonged infectivity of the bile may be very important from the public health point of view is shown by the claim of Bliimenthal and his co-workers in Leipzig, that out of a series of 386 cases occur- ring during a period of eighteen months 77 patients had been in more or less close contact with " bacteria carriers." Similar observations have also been made in this country. It is obvious that these facts may explain the sporadic occurrence of typhoid fever in districts which have long been free of the disease. When bacilli carriers are discovered they should be warned of the danger they are to others, and instructed as to the necessity for cleansing the hands, care in cooking or handling food, and disinfecting the stools. No ethcient means of disinfecting the gall-bladder is known ; when it is diseased it is advisable to urge its removal, as there is some reason to suppose that typhoid cholecystitis predisposes to gall-stones.] Symptoms Incubation Period is the interval between the moment of infection and of the invasion. Each of these events is so often indefinite that in many cases it is not possible to exactly detei'- mine the duration of the incubation period; most commonly it is from eight to ten days, but it may be only one or two days (very rarely), or as long as twenty-three days. There are seldom symptoms during the incu- bation period, but headache, loss of appetite, sense of fatigue, or sleeplessness may occur. Symptoms of Invasion. — The invasion is usually gradual; the most constant and earliest symptom, in fact the symptom from which is usually dated the invasion, is pyrexia. The temperature rises first in the evening 1"5 to 2°, and on each succeeding day increases by 1°, the evening temperature maintaining the excess of 1'5 or 2° which it gained by commencing to rise before the morning temperature; after four, five, or six days of such step-like ascent the temperature stands at 101° to 103° in the morning and at 103° to 105° in the evening; the evening temperature then ceases to rise,