TUBERCULOSIS 140 spicuously absent; but given a breaking down of tubercles in the lung substance, with secondary infection of the cavities or an ulceration of tuberculous lesions in the intestine, and one finds the symptoms of toxsemia well marked. As a result of such observations it has been suggested that the treatment of the secondary infections should be the chief object aimed at. The comparative failure of methods of treat- ment by tuberculin is probably almost entirely due to the ignoring of the effects of such secondary infections by pyogenic cocci. It is well known that by keeping phthisical patients in an atmosphere practically free from germs, such as may be attained at a high alti- tude, and by enforcing as complete rest as possible, they are protected against reinfection by pyogenic cocci, and placed in a condition in which the intensity of the present pyogenic infection may be reduced. Ophiils considers that some of the acute ex- acerbations, which usually assume the form of pneumonic processes, are produced by the tubercle bacillus alone, whereas others are pro- duced by the mixed infections. He chiefly examined sections from the walls of cavities and parts of the lung affected. The opinions here expressed, though received in their entirety with caution, are supported by the experiments of Delepine and Ravenel, who found that injection of mixed human sputa could cause the disease in lower animals which resist infection by pure growths of human tubercle bacilli. Pansini also found that the bacilli of human tuberculosis were less virulent in pure culture than in tuberculous material or sputum. Is it not also possible that the ignoring of mixed infections may invalidate conclusions based upon experiments made by Koch and others with pure cultures of the bacillus 1 These inoculation experiments, to begin with, do not and cannot reproduce the conditions usually met in natural infection. The animals used were perfectly strong and healthy, in nowise in a condition analogous to that of the child or adult who is unable to resist infection. Again, account must be taken of the varying virulence of the races of bacilli used, a bacillus of low virulence producing vmimportant lesions. Taking all together, therefore, the negative results obtained were such as were to be expected, and the conclusions drawn were founded on data to which exception can be taken. Considerations such as these lead us naturally to the consideration of the relationship of the human bacillus to those of the lower animals, and particularly to that of the bovine disease. Tuberculosis in Man and in the Lower Animals.—Acute interest has been excited in the question of the intercommunicability of human and bovine tuberculosis by Koch's recent paper at the British Congress on Tuberculosis (1901). Previous to that, one organism, the bacillus of mammalian tuberculosis, was looked upon as the proved cause of the disease in man and cattle. Another bacillus, somewhat distantly related to the former, was credited with pro- ducing fowl tuberculosis. Most other verte- brates are, or can be rendered, susceptible to tuberculosis, and the disease is described even in cold-blood animals such as fish. In order to clear the ground we shall consider shortly avian and piscine tuberculosis in relation to the human disease. Avian Tuberculosis.—The morphological and biological characters distinguishing the bacilli of this disease from the mammalian disease have already been detailed. Can any relationship to the mammalian disease and bacillus be proved 1 Nocard succeeded in so modifying cultures of mammalian tubercle that they became like those of avian tubercle, and also resembled them in pathogenicity. He found that cultures of mam- malian tubercle, if placed in collodion sacs and grown for a length of time in the peritoneal cavity of fowls, gradually became fatal to fowls and took on the cultural characters of avian tubercle. (Congress on Tubercul., Paris, 1898.) Fischel and Mafucci (Lubarsch u. Ostertag., 1895, p. 233) were able to modify the appear- ance of mammalian and avian tubercle bacilli by cultivating on diff'erent media and at different temperatures. For example, if mammalian tubercle were grown on serum made from hen's blood, the resultant culture was like that of avian tubercle. They also found that mamma- lian bacilli, when grown on eggs, and on boracic acid agar, or thymol-glycerine-agar, developed long filaments showing multiple branching. On dogs'-blood serum a development took place like that of avian tubercle. More important still, by growing on boracic acid agar, Fischel obtained cultures of mammalian tubercle which no longer showed marked virulence for rabbits and guinea- pigs, but displayed effects in these animals like those of avian tuberculosis. The evidence with regard to experimental infection of fowls with human tuberculous material is very variable and at times conflicting. There are some instances reported of natural infection of fowls with human tuberculosis. This is to a great extent opposed to the experi- mental evidence, probably from the fact that in experimentation all the conditions of the natural infection are not realised. They may be infected with tuberculous sputum from their attendants, and tuberculosis has been observed in fowls reared in abattoirs, where they have been fed on contaminated meat or tuberculous viscera (Nocard). The case reported by M. Cagny is well known. In La Semaine Medicate, 1888, he describes a case of transmission of human tuberculosis to poultry.