314 URTICARIA carial Forms), Drug Eruptions {Urticarial); Gout {Irregular, Cutaneous System); Hydatid Disease [Diagnosis, Hydatid Bash); Intestines, Diseases of {Enteritis, Symptoms of Ptomaine- Poisoning) ; Leucocytosis {Eosinophile Variety); Muscles, Diseases of {Polymyositis accompany- ing Urticarial Affections); Pediculosis {Differ- ential Diagnosis); Pruritus {Catisation); Rheu- matism, Acute {Cutaneous Manifestations); Snake Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Mackerel- Poisoning) ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases OF {Symptomatology, Cutaneous); Stinging In- sects ; Stinging Plants ; Therapeutics, Serum Therapy {Toxic Effects of Antidiphtheritic Serum); Tumours of the Skin {Urticaria Pigmentosa). Definition.—Urticaria is an eruption character- ised by the formation of wheals. Wheals are raised, flatly convex, circumscribed lesions, white or pinkish in colour, firm and elastic in consist- ence, which form rapidly, are more or less ephe- meral, are associated with itching, tingling, or stinging sensations, and are similar to the lesions produced by the sting of the common nettle {Urtica urens), from which the eruption derives its name. Symptoms. — The eruption may come out suddenly without warning, or it may be pre- ceded for a day or two by various prodromal symptoms, such as fever, malaise, lassitude, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, and epigastric pain, or by biirning and tingling of the skin locally. Wheals vary greatly in size and shape. They are usually about the size of a split-pea or a small bean and discrete, but they may coalesce to form irregular, pad-like patches sometimes as large as the palm of the hand. As a rule they are circular in outline, but they may be irregular, and occasionally take the form of streaks, crescents, or gyrate figures. They are solid and more or less elastic to the touch, and are generally elevated about 2 mm. above the level of the skin, though at times they may be scarcely raised, and may be difficult to feel. When they first appear they are pinkish in tinge, but in most cases this colour is quickly replaced by a whitish tint which has been com- pared to that of porcelain. Surrounding the wheal there is a hypertemic halo which fades gradually into the neighbouring skin. Wheals vary in number in different cases from a few isolated lesions to hundreds of them. They do not show any tendency to be ar- ranged systematically, or to be grouped in any special manner. They may occur in any situa- tion in the skin, but are most liable to form in the parts covered by clothing. They may be present also in the mucous membranes, and are most common in those of the mouth, pharynx, gastro-intestinal and respiratory tracts. In the latter situation they cause sensations of suffoca- tion and dyspnoea of the asthmatic type, and occasionally asphyxia, while in the gastro- intestinal tract they are associated with nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea. The subjective symp- toms of urticaria are not infrequently worse immediately before the wheals form, and they tend to diminish when the lesions are fully evolved. Occasionally wheals may go on to vesicular or bullous formation, and they may even become hjemorrhagic. The life of a wheal is, as a rule, brief; it generally lasts only a few minutes, but at times it may persist for several hours, and sometimes for days. On disappearing wheals seldom leave any trace behind them, such as staining or desqua- mation, but on the other hand they may be replaced by a hemp-seed sized inflammatory papule, or in rare instances be followed by pig- mentation. The latter sequela must on no account be confused with the disease known as urticaria pigmentosum, which belongs to a different category from true urticaria. On account of the distressing subjective symptoms associated with the efflorescence of wheals, the patient is induced to rub the skin, and by so doing to cause more wheals to form, or he may scratch and excoriate it, and by in- oculating pyogenic organisms produce pustular lesions of the type of ecthyma. Varieties.—Several varieties of urticarial eruptions are distinguished, and a brief re- ference to these will serve to indicate the lead- ing clinical types of the disease. There are four chief varieties of urticaria, namely: Urticaria acuta, U. chronica, U. factitia, and U. papulosa. 1. Urticaria Acuta.—The eruption in acute urticaria is, as a rule, associated with a rise in temperature of several degrees. Prodromal symptoms are generally present, and the condi- tion is almost invariably the result of the circu- lation in the blood of food-toxins or drugs. The eruption is profuse, the wheals remaining dis- crete on the face, but tending to run together to form patches on the trunk and limbs. It readily disappears when the offending toxins have been eliminated and leaves no trace of its occurrence. 2. Urticaria Chronica.—Chronic urticaria is so named, not because the individual wheals persist much longer than those in the acute variety, but because the dermatitis is kept up for a prolonged period by successive crops of wheals, which appear at regular or irregular intervals, and sometimes exhibit a periodicity which suggests malaria. The wheals are dis- crete and comparatively few in number. It is often difficult to trace the cause of this condition, and it is far more intractable to treatment than the acute type. 3. Urticaria Factitia.—Factitious urticaria is the name given to wheals which are readily excited by local irritation. It occurs in a peculiar condition of the skin in which there is an excessive state of irritability of the nerve-