246 URAEMIA may be overlooked or rather attributed to the treatment unless it is associated with uraemic vomiting. Diarrhoea is stated to be most troublesome during the night, when six or more watery stools may be passed, though during the day there may have been only one or two actions of the bowels. This feature is of some diagnostic importance, since in advanced nephritis dysenteric symptoms with definite lesions are not uncommon. 3. Latent Ur/Emia.—Under this term a third variety has been described, in which all the most obvious symptoms of ursemia are con- spicuous by their absence. This form is com- mon with calculous anuria and other varieties of obstructive svippression. In these conditions death occurs in from five to nine days, and the leading symptoms are contracted pupils, a low temperature, occasional vomiting, and towards the end slight muscular twitchings and slight drowsiness. The negative characteristics are the absence of coma, convulsions, and dyspnoea, consciousness being retained until very shortly before the end. Theories of Uraemia.—Although from the clinical side it may be convenient to include under a comprehensive term diverse symptoms which are undoubtedly the result of kidney disease, it must be remembered that the term Uraemia is somewhat misleading unless it is employed in a very wide sense. Numerous theories, explanatory of the symp- toms, have been suggested, and arguments can be adduced in support of most of them. Many turn upon some interference with the elimin- ative work of the kidney, whereby the system becomes surcharged with one or more of the urinary constituents, which may be directly toxic, or may exert a toxic influence after under- going some chemical change in the body. The attempt to find a single theory which shall afford a satisfactory explanation of all cases seems doomed to failure in view of the com- plexity of the symptoms of uraemia. The theories of urajmia may be broadly divided into two classes:— 1. Mechanical. 2. Chemical. According to the first some definite physical change affects the nerve centres, such as oedema or minute haemorrhages; according to the second, the symptoms are to be explained on the theory of the toxic influence produced by some retained constituent of the urine, or resulting from the action of soine material formed by decomposition or metabolism within the system. 1. Mechanical.—Numerous minute haemor- rhages have been found in various parts of the brain, but these are so rare and so uncertain that they must be regarded as the results rather than the cause of the convulsive seizures. Traube thinks that the basis of uraemic symp- toms is to be found in oedema of the brain, which from its increased volume induces anaemia. Two conditions predispose to oedema — the marked hydraemia and the increased arterial pressure. If the arterial tension is by some accidental means suddenly raised, or the density of the blood serum suddenly further diminished, the serous fluid will transude into the brain substance and cause oedema. Traube considers that the special symptoms of the uraemic attack are dependent upon the degree and localisation of the oedema in the brain : convulsions occur when the middle lobes are affected ; coma when the oedema extends to the whole cerebrum. Traube's theory is supported by (1) the fre- quency of cardiac hypertrophy and hydraemia in cases of uraemia; and (2) by the production of coma and convulsions in dogs by the injection of water into the carotid after ligature of the ureters and of one of the jugular veins. Against this theory it has been urged that the symptoms are only produced experimentally when enor- mous quantities of water have been injected, and that even under such circumstances the brain may present no indication of oedema. Moreover, from the clinical side hypertrophy of the heart and hydraemia are not always accom- paniments of uraemia, while post-mortem exam- ination frequently fails to demonstrate oedema of the brain. Even when cerebral oedema has been recognised it has been thought to be the result of the convulsions rather than the cause. In spite of these objections Traube's theory has, in a modified form, found several adherents; it has been held that in scarlet fever, inflam- matory cedematous conditions of the brain and its meninges co-operate with the action of some result of infection. 2. Chemical.—The term " uraemia " was first employed under the idea that all the symptoms depended upon the non-elimination of urea, its circulation in the blood, and its toxic action upon the central nervous system or upon other organs. The following observations have been ad- vanced in favour of the theory that uraemia is due to the retention of urea:—(i.) The appear- ance of marked symptoms when the secretion of urine and the elimination of urea are much re- duced ; (ii.) the detection of urea in the blood under these conditions; (iii.) the production of many of the ordinary symptoms, such as drowsi- ness, convulsions, and vomiting, when the ex- cretion has been experimentally arrested by ligature of the renal arteries, or the ureters, or by extirpation of the kidney. Against the retention theory it must be admitted (i.) that all symptoms of acute uraemia may be absent when complete suppression has lasted for many hours, or even days, without being accompanied by vomiting or diarrhoea, through which vicarious elimination might have been effected; (ii.) that uraemic symptoms, in their frequency and severity, do not clinically