90 TRADES, DANGEROUS extends to the muscles of the limbs and trunk. At first this tremor is only induced by exertion, but after a time it is more or less constant, although it usually ceases when the individual is asleep. The implication of the tongue and lips causes impairment of speech. Occasionally there is paralysis, but the loss of power is never so pronounced as in lead-poisoning, neither do the muscles waste so rapidly nor lose their electrical reaction. The knee-jerks may not be altered. The nutrition of the body is, generally speaking, deranged. It is an interesting fact that while by means of very small doses of mercury the metabolism of the body is quickened so that a patient when undergoing treatment by means of the drug may put on flesh, large doses have just the opposite effect, for owing to the continued entrance of the metal into the system there occur progressive emaciation, an earthy pallor or pigmentation of the skin, falling out of the hair, brittleness of the nails, rheumatic pains, albuminuria, and tremor. In acute cases of mercurial poisoning, such as that caused by taking corrosive sublimate, there are extreme pain at the stomach, severe retching, vomiting, sense of great constriction in the gullet, profuse diarrhoea, a feeling of in- tense distress, a sense of great exhaustion, cedema of the glottis, and death from asphyxia or convulsions. The profuse diarrhceic dis- charges involuntarily expelled by a patient in the throes of corrosive sublimate poisoning render attention to the patient by a medical practitioner and friends a very unpleasant undertaking. Acute mercurial poisoning by the bichloride of mercury is generally suicidal. On an average in this country five deaths per year can be traced to corrosive sublimate. The bichloride of mercury is a powerful poison. Three grains have caused death. Pathology.—When death has been caused by corrosive sublimate there is observed pallor of mouth, throat, and gullet, and on examining the interior of the body the mucous membrane of the alimentary tract is found ecchymosed in nearly its whole length. In cases of chronic poisoning mercury seems to have the power of dissolving lime salts out of the bones, and these are deposited in the tubules of the kidney in the form of small chalky masses. When there has been paralysis the nerves are found to have undergone degeneration, fatty changes being very noticeable in the myelin sheath. Diagnosis.—If the case is one of acute mer- curial poisoning the extreme pain at the epi- gastrium, severe vomiting and profuse diarrhoea with collapse, and the history of some drug taken suggest poisoning by corrosive sublimate. In chronic cases tlie earthy pallor of the skin or bronzing, the muscular tremor and paresis, with slight embarrassment and slowness of speech, recall disseminated sclerosis, but there are not the nystagmus and exaggerated knee- jerks which are present in that illness. The rather loose teeth, with ulcerated gums and absence of blue line and colic, show that it is not a case of plumbism. In some cases the symptoms are suggestive of general paralysis, but there are none of the grandiose ideas nor the pupillary and mental changes met with in that illness. Prognosis.—If a large dose of corrosive sub- limate in solution has been taken the patient will probably die. It is a strong irritant poison. Soothing substances therefore must be given. Milk with white of egg answers very well, for the mercury enters into combination with the latter, forming a rather insoluble albuminate. If possible the stomach should be washed out, but as the mucous membrane of the mouth and gullet has been rendered white and tender by the poison, care must be taken in passing the tube down the oesophagus. Vomiting is usually present; this should be encouraged by tepid drinks of sulphate of zinc and by a hypodermic injection of four minims of apomorphia. In industrial mercurial poisoning there ought to be better ventilation of the workrooms and the removal of dust by a Blackman's fan ; personal cleanliness of the workers should be insisted upon; the men ought to be pi'ovided with astringent and antiseptic mouth-washes, be given at least a pint of milk daily, and have sulphur baths. In cases of paralysis recourse must be had to massage and electricity. To patients in whom decalcification of bone is taking place the internal administration of calcium phosphate is called for. Phosphorus and Lucifer Match-Making Poisoning by phosphorus occurs under two different circumstances: (1) suicidal or acci- dental, in which the symptoms are of an acute character; (2) industrial poisoning in lucifer matchmakers, in whom the symptoms are sub- acute or chronic. It is said that acute phos- phorus-poisoning never occurs in lucifer match- makers. Practically this is the case, for only one or two instances have been reported. Phosphorus is allotropic, i.e. is capable of existing under two different forms and of pre- senting different physical characters, yet re- taining the same chemical composition. There are, consequently, two kinds of phosphorus, red and white or yellow. Red phosphorus is obtained from white by exposing the latter to a very high temperature in air-tight iron vessels. By this means its phosphorescence is lost and the metalloid ceases to catch fire ou percussion or friction. White phosphorus is obtained from bone. It alone is dangerous. A very few grains of it will cause death. Persons who resort to phosphorus as a means of com- mitting suicide usually take it in the form of rat or vermin paste, or they dissolve a number