TON ous gland with no further ill effect than a temporary acceleration of the pulse. The writer has had a similar experience. It is only necessary to remove glands which are enlarged, and the attempt need not be made to clear out the lymphatic vessels between the primary tumour and the infected glands. When there are no glands palpably enlarged Cheyne recommends that the surgeon should rest content in the first instance with the re- moval of the primary disease in the mouth, and be prepared to deal with any glandular enlarge- ment which may appear later. Butlin and Jacobson, on the other hand, urge the advisa- bility of removing the glands in every case as a matter of routine. "The operation should be performed as soon as the patient has recovered sufficiently from the operation within the mouth to bear it" (Butlin). Methods of Operating.—It is only necessary to describe three of the numei-ous methods of excising the tongue—Whitehead's, Syme's, and Kocher's. Whitehead's Operation.—This method is speci- ally useful in cases of cancer limited to one side of the anterior portion of the tongue, but it may be employed even when the whole tongue is implicated. The mouth is opened widely with a gag, and a loop of stout silk is passed through the substance of the tongue on each side of the middle line, to enable the organ to be pulled well out of the mouth. This loop should be introduced as far back in the tongue as possible, so that, when traction is put upon it, the base of the tongue will be brought forward. The mucous membrane is divided with scissors along the middle line, first on the dorsal and then on the under aspect of the tongue, and the mus- cular substance is torn through. The mucous membrane and muscles of the floor of the mouth are next snipped through with scissors, the vessels being caught with forceps as they are divided. The anterior pillar of the fauces is next divided, and the tongue can then be pulled well out of the mouth by means of the silk sutures passed through it. The operation is completed by cutting transversely across the affected half of the tongue well beyond the tumour. The mucous membrane should first be divided with a knife or scissors and the muscular fibres then torn through. The lingual artery can usually be recognised and clamped before being cut. If it bleeds it is easily secured. The operation for removal of the whole tongue is carried out on the same lines as for removal of one-half, save that the organ is not split along the middle line. When the disease invades the floor of the mouth the sublingual gland should be removed along with the tongue. In some cases there is difficulty in withdraw- ing the tongue from the mouth on account of its fixation in the region of the anterior pillar GUE 39 of the fauces, and in order to gain access it may be necessary to split the cheek from the angle of the mouth back to the anterior edge of the masseter. Langenbeck advised in addition divi- sion of the jaw just behind the molar teeth in such cases. When the tumour is adherent to the jaw it is necessary to remove a portion of the bone. Syme's Operation.—This operation is suited to cases in which the whole tongue with the structui-es in the floor of the mouth must be removed. It consists in carrying an incision in the middle line through the lower lip, across the chin, and down to the hyoid bone. One of the central incisors is extracted and the lower jaw divided. The writer has found Gigli's saw very useful for this purpose. The tongue is then separated from the jaw by dividing the muscles inserted into the genial tubercles. The two halves of the jaw are then forcibly retracted in order to expose the floor of the mouth, and to give free access to the tongue. The further steps of the operation are similar to those of Whitehead's operation, the tongue being re- moved by cutting with scissors wide of the disease in every direction. After removal of the diseased tissues the jaw is wired and the soft parts brought together with stitches. The stump of the tongue must be secured with a strong silk suture to prevent it falling back and obstructing the air passages. Kocher's operation is also suited to cases in which the whole tongue, right down to the hyoid bone, has to be removed. A preliminary tracheotomy is performed. A curved incision is made from just below the symphysis menti down to the hyoid bone, and then onwards along the line of the digastric muscle and anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid as far as the lobule of the ear. The integument is reflected up over the jaw, and the submaxillary and anterior triangles clear of lymphatic glands. The mylohyoid muscle and mucous membrane are then divided, and the cavity of the mouth thus opened. The anterior pillars of the fauces are next divided through the mouth, and the tongue can then be pulled out through the wound in the neck. The tongue and other diseased tissues in the floor of the mouth are cut out with scissors, the blood-vessels being secured as they are cut. After-Treatment.—After removal of the dis- eased parts the haemorrhage is arrested, and the whole of the raw surface may be painted over with a solution of chloride of zinc, forty grains to the ounce. A few catgut stitches may be inserted into the mucous membrane, where possible, to diminish the extent of the raw surface. Care must be taken not to attempt too much in this direction lest the discharge be retained and septic absorption result. It is best to trust to frequent douching and sponging with antiseptic lotions to keep the mouth dry