32 TONGUE comparatively rare. From the records of re- ported cases it would appear that young adult males suffer more frequently than others. From the fact that the condition occurs oftener during the winter months, it has been assumed that exposure to cold and damp is at least a predisposing factor, and the history of the patient usually bears this out. The infection may follow an acute infectious disease, such as erysipelas or scarlet fever. The determining- cause is doubtless an organismal infection by one or other of the numerous forms of bacteria which exist in the mouth. Different forms of the disease—the streptococcal and the stapliy- lococcal for example—are recognised according to the nature of the more active organisms present. In the streptococcal variety the whole tongue becomes swollen and oedematous, and the in- flammation tends to spread to the tissues of the neck, setting up that form of acute cellulitis known as "angina Ludovici." The inflamma- tion does not usually go on to suppuration. In the staphylococcal variety, on the other hand, the inflammation tends to remain localised to the tongue or even to one part of it, and is liable to end in the formation of a circumscribed abscess. Clinical Features. — The most prominent symptoms are severe pain and general swelling of the tongue, and these usually come on suddenly. Mastication, swallowing, and speech are seriously interfered with, and there is profiTse salivation. In the course of twenty- four or forty-eight hours the tongue may com- pletely fill the mouth and even protrude beyond the teeth. When the swelling is extreme re- spiration may be so impeded as to necessitate tracheotomy. The submaxillary, salivary, and lymphatic glands are enlarged and tender. As a rule resolution takes place in three or four days, but in the staphylococcal form of the disease a localised abscess usually situated be- tween the genio-hyo-glossi muscles may form. Treatment.—A sharp purgative should be administered in the first instance, and the mouth should be washed out frequently with an anti- septic lotion. Leeches may be applied to the submaxillary region with a view to diminishing the congestion. When the swelling is inter- fering with respiration or deglutition several longitudinal incisions should be made into the substance of the tongue. In this way the oedema and congestion are usually rapidly relieved. Ac^ite Parenchymatous Hemi-glossitis.—In a considerable number of cases the acute inflam- mation is confined to one side of the tongue, and affects particularly the anterior part. In the centre of the inflamed area a firm nodule is usually to be felt deep in the substance of the organ. The clinical features are the same in kind as those of the condition last described, but the general constitutional effects are less- severe, and there is less interference with swallowing and breathing. The inflammation j usually subsides without going on to suppura- j tion. The treatment is carried out on the same I lines as for acute glossitis affecting the whole tongue. Mercurial Glossitis.—An acute form of in- flammation of the tongue was formerly common amongst those who worked in mercury, and in patients undergoing a mercurial course of treat- ment for syphilis. Owing to the care now taken in factories where mercury is used, and the greater discrimination employed in prescrib- ing this drug medicinally, this disease is very rarely met with. It differs clinically from ordinary acute parenchymatous glossitis chiefly in that there is much more profuse salivation and extreme foetor of the breath. It is accom- panied also by sponginess of the gums, looseness of the teeth, and other signs of mercurial stomatitis. The treatment consists in prevent- ing the further ingestion of mercury, and in employing an antiseptic and astringent mouth wash, such as Condy's fluid, alum, or chlorate of potash. Gangrene of a portion of the tongue—usually the anterior portion—may result from any form of acute glossitis, or from the spread of cancrum oris from the cheek or gums. It has also- followed crushing or laceration of the organ by forceps used to pull out the tongue during anaesthesia. In addition to the use of ordinary mouth washes, frequent washing with peroxide of hydrogen (ten volumes strength) has been found very useful in keeping the mouth sweet. As soon as a line of demarcation forms the slough should be clipped away with scissors. Glosso-anthrax. — In a few rare cases the tongue has been directly inoculated with anthrax. In addition to the ordinary signs of acute glossitis the characteristic black slough and ring of pustules are present. The condition is almost invariably fatal. Actinomycosis may also be mentioned as one of the very rare infectious diseases met with in the tongue. SUPERFICIAL GLOSSITIS Acute Superficial Glossitis.—Various forms of inflammation originating in the superficial epithelium of the tongue are met with. As a rule the whole of the buccal mucous membrane is implicated, and the inflammation of the tongue is therefore only part of a general stomatitis {see " Stomatitis," vol. ix. p. 398). Chronic Superficial Glossitis.—The term wandering rash has been applied by Barker to a comparatively rare affection of the tongue usually met with in children. It consists in the appearance on the dorsum of the tongue of several smooth, red patches, which soon spread and form oval or circular rings with a more or