190 TYPHOID FEVER to other pyogenic organisms than the bacilhis typhosus, but the latter is sometimes found in them. CEdema of the glottis may result from ulcera- tion, or perichondritis may do so, with expec- toration of pus and parts of the laryngeal cartilages. Abscesses may also form in the subcutaneous tissues outside the larynx. Paralysis of the vocal cords may occur during convalescence, with loss of voice, or dyspnoea, requiring tracheotomy. It is mostly due to peripheral nerve changes, and is occasionally a part of general peripheral neuritis. Urino-genital.—Albuminui'ia, slight in amount and without symptoms, can scarcely be regarded as a complication, nor can the presence of bacilli in the urine in small numbers. But actual nephritis, with hgematuria and casts, occurs occasionally. And cases are described and termed " nephro-typhoid" in which the disease begins witli all the symptoms of a very acute nephritis, followed by other more char- acteristic signs of typhoid fever. Some such cases have even proved fatal by perforation of the intestine. Hematuria may occur as part of a general hsemorrhagic tendency. In a case of my own it was fatal, and the autopsy showed it to arise from the mucous membrane of the bladder. In some cases htematuria results from renal infarcts, in which are found the specific bacilli. Cystitis may occur. Sometimes the colon bacillus or the streptococcus pyogenes or the staphylococcus is found in the pus, more often the typhoid bacillus itself; and probably the cystitis is due in such cases to a rapid multipli- cation of the bacilli in the urinary bladder, no doubt favoured by the difficulty in emptying the bladder, or the actual retention of urine so common in typhoid fever. Renal abscesses and pyelitis may occur, also orchitis and epididymitis, sometimes going on to suppuration or sloughing of most of the testis ; orchitis and parotitis have been observed to- gether. Ovaritis may occur, and the specific bacillus has been found in some such cases which sup- purated. Nervous System. — As already said, the nervous symptoms simulating meningitis, which come on with a typhoid attack or during its course, are usually toxic in origin, and not due to actual inflammation. But actual meningitis may occur in typhoid. It may initiate the disease with severe headache, vomiting, squint, retraction of head, etc. Such cases are very rare, still more rarely are they due to the presence of the specific bacillus. They have been spoken of as "cerebral-typhoid." As a complication of typhoid in its later stages meningitis is also very uncommon. It occurred in 11 of 2000 cases at Munich. Sometimes it is started by middle-ear disease. The strepto- coccus and pneumococcus, rarely the bacillus typhosus, have been found in the meningeal effusion. Meningitis in typhoid produces its usual symptoms, and often hyperpyrexia. Kernig's sign is useful in the diagnosis. It is quite possible some cases, even of meningitis, may recover, but it has been suggested that those cases which clear up are due to thrombosis of the cerebral vessels. Hemiplegia, with or without convulsions, may result from thrombosis of cerebral vessels. Aphasia may be a sequel or a complication, and is usually temporary only; it is said to be commonest in children. Hysteria may follow typhoid; also a state like trance. Epilepsy.—Typhoid in epileptics runs its usual course; the fits may occur during the illness, more often during convalescence. Mental Defects.—After the attack the mind may be completely blank of all that occurred during a considerable period of the disease, and may remain so for ever. Sudden acute mania may occur in convalescence; chronic mania, melancholia, general mental weakness, various forms of delusion, may result from typhoid. They usually pass off in weeks or months. Ocular Complications.—Catarrhal and phly- ctenular conjunctivitis are the most common; suppurative keratitis, iritis, or cyclitis are occasional. Double optic neuritis and subse- quent atrophy are recorded. Amblyopia has followed severe hfemorrhages, even without any ophthalmoscopic changes. Keen believes retinal hsemorrhages in typhoid are more common than thought. Cellulitis of orbit and paralysis of the extra-ocular muscles may occur. Aural.—Otitis media may occur with its usual symptoms ; the bacillus typhosus has not been found in connection with it. Peripheral Neuritis is a not uncommon complication in the late stages: the symptoms had been noticed by many, but it was Noth- nagel who first attributed them to periplieral nerve changes. The manifestations of peri- pheral neuritis in typhoid are sensory rather than motor disturbance, sometimes merely persistent numbness of the upper or lower extremities ; in other cases intense, even agonis- ing pains in the area of distribution of the sciatic, peroneal, ulnar, or other nerve. The numbness or pains may last for weeks, and may be succeeded by anfesthesia, in one case lasting for eight years. Sometimes paralysis and atrophy of muscles occur, chiefly in the forearms. Contractions may follow : the palate has been paralysed, and the motor and sensory roots of the fifth nerve (Dreschfeld). Laryngeal paralysis may occur, necessitating tracheotomy. Optic neuritis is excessively rare. Wednenske records a case in which symmetrical gangrene due to degeneration of peripheral nerves