439 VENTILATION AND WARMING or water-heated radiators, placed opposite simple openings at floor level, secure good ventilation, e.g. in hospitals. Mixing boxes (Jacob's and others) have been designed for warming air on admission. Inlets may be placed behind cornices or pictures. They should, as a rule, be placed more than 6 feet high. In mechanical systems of ventilation, the ratio in size of inlets and outlets must be adjusted to the special system, —the quantity of air, the velocity, etc. Outlets.—These have been already indicated. A fire-flue is the chief domestic outlet. As a general principle, outlets should be reduced where possible to one ; friction will be less, there will be less risk of contrary action between outlets, and efficiency can be better regulated. In exhaustion systems a fan or steam-jet may be placed in the outlet. Sometimes, as in one form of Arnott's valve, an opening is made into the chimney at ceiling level, the opening being guarded by a mica flap-valve to prevent regurgi- tation of smoke. This is good in certain forms of room, as where windows or doors are the main inlets. Sometimes a flue for air is made vertically parallel with chimney, with an open- ing at ceiling level. They act well, provided inlets are sufficient. Mica flap-valves are noisy in windy weather. (B) Plenum or Propulsion Systems In a Plenum system, the air is forced into the rooms by mechanical power—rotating fans, " fanners," or blowers—or by steam-heated coils, stoves, furnaces, water-spray, steam-jets, or other heat-producing appliances. The Galton grate is at once a vacuum and a plenum ap- pliance, forcing in warmed air and exhausting fouled air. In America the heating furnace for forcing in hot air is a very common house-fitting. For large rooms, or buildings like schools, factories, hospitals, and the like, where cubic space per head is necessarily small, a mechanical system of Plenum ventilation is frequently the best. For large schools, it has emerged as the best. But its suitability depends on the skill of the designing engineer. A Plenum system (Key's) may be seen at work in many Scottish schools : in particular—-Aberdeen Board Schools, Dundee Board Schools, the Leith High School, the Victoria Hospital (Glasgow), the Govan Parochial Hospital, and elsewhere. In Key's system, the parts are arranged in the following sequence: — Inlet, louvred or otherwise pro- tected ; screen for washing and filtering the air ; forest of steam-heated pipes, arranged in sections or groups for greater or less heating; rotary fan, driven by steam, or oil, or gas, or water, or electricity ; horizontal main air-duct; horizontal branch-ducts; vertical sub-branch ducts, with doors and extra heating-coils; openings near ceiling in rooms; outlet near floor; vertical duct, opening to outside. The air drawn or driven in by the fan passes through all those structures in the order given. The walls and windows are hermetically sealed. The air can be regulated in amount, in temperature, and in humidity. The system requires the attention of a competent mechanic. It is at once a system of ventilation and a system of heating. A special feature of the system is the placing of inlets and outlets on the same side of the room —the inlet near the ceiling, the outlet at or in the floor. In winter, the outlet at the floor level is found best; in summer, the outlet near the ceiling is found best (Billings). The system is costly, both in installation and in use; but when properly arranged and properly managed, it is efficient. There are many other varieties of mechanical systems, e.g. the Sturtevant system, the Blackman system (Blackman's fan is commonly used in Key's system), and so on. As already noted, mechani- cal power can be applied for extraction as well as for propulsion. Carnelley and Haldane, after an elaborate investigation, decided in favour of mechanical ventilation of schools. The comparative effi- ciency of "mechanical" and "natural" (or tem- perature ventilation—shafts, cowls, chimneys, etc.) is shown below, the mechanical system being taken as unity :— Excess over Outside Air. Dundee Schools (Carnelley, Haldane, and Anderson). Aberdeen Schools (Brazier, Thomson). Mechani- cally Venti- lated. Natur- ally Venti- lated. Mechani- cally Venti- lated. Natur- ally Venti- lated- Temperature 1 0-66 1 0-9 Carbonic acid 1 17 1 1-6 Organic matter . 1 7-0 Micro-organisms . 1 9-2 1 7-2 These results leave no doubt of the superi- ority of the mechanical systems. " By mechani- cal ventilation the whole of the air in a school may be easily changed in less than fifteen minutes, and when the system is well arranged, in less than ten minutes." The same observers prefer "blowing in" (propulsion) to "exhaust- ing " of air, because in the propulsion system the source of the air admitted can be better controlled and the air better distributed. Notes on Warming.—The following notes are supplementary to the details given under " Ven- tilation." (1) Open Fires.—Advantages are—cheerful- ness and good extraction of air. Defects are— great wastefulness (about 80 to 90 per cent) of fuel and production of floor draughts. In meeting these defects, very few of the many devices are entirely successful. A good grate should have little or no iron in its structure. The ribs should be thin and vertical, not thick