TOXICOLOGY 70 place after three ounces, and even after eight ounces of laudanum. One grain of morphine hydrochlorate has caused death, and recovery has followed thirty, and even fifty-five grains. Recovery has followed the subcutaneous injection of about twelve grains of morphine. To infants opium is very dangerous ; one drop of the tinc- ture may give rise to serious symptoms, and even to death. Recovery, in an infant three months old, occurred after it had swallowed a teaspoonful of laudanum. In another case an infant six days old survived a grain and a half of opium. Death has been caused by sprinkling an open sore with morphine. Post-mortem Appearances.—There is nothing characteristic to be found after death other than the presence of some of the poison in the stomach. The blood may be dark and fluid, and there may be hypergeinia of the brain and its membranes. Tests.—A drop of nitric acid added to a minute fragment of morphine produces an orange-yellow colour. If a centigramme of molybdic acid is dissolved, with the aid of gentle heat, in a cubic centimetre of sulphuric acid, and a drop of the mixture (when cold) be mixed with a fragment of morphine, a reddish purple colour is produced, which changes to blue. An aqueous solution of iodic acid shaken up with a little carbon bi- sulphide imparts to it no coloration; the addi- tion of a ti-ace of morphine liberates iodine from the iodic acid which, on agitation, colours the carbon bisulphide pink or rose-red. Chronic opium-poisoning., also called opium- eating and morphinism.—Opium is a poison towards which an extraordinary degree of toler- ance may be acquired by persons who habitually take it in gradually increasing doses ; probably due to a progressively increasing power of the tissues to destroy the morphine, rather than to an acquired indifiference to its action. The habit is frequently initiated by the medicinal use of opium to relieve pain or to procure sleep. After a time the patient feels depressed and uncom- fortable when not under the influence of the drug, and the temptation to take it surreptitiously is more than many people can withstand. Once begun the practice is extremely difficult to give up; hence it behoves medical practitioners to guard against exposing patients to the allure- ments of opium, and when the drug needs to be prescribed for a time, to earnestly wai-n the person taking it against prolonging its use beyond the specified term. One of the most pronounced characteristics of a person addicted to the habitual use of opium is the total absence of the moral sense, especially as regards the means used to secure indulgence in the drug. Whilst capable of special efforts, he shuns methodic work and routine duties ; at the time when he feels the stimulating effects of the opium he is at his best and is companionable ; at other times he is dull, restless, and captious. He will resort to any lengths to obtain the craved-for indulgence, and, after succeeding, will deny the fact with an astounding earnestness even to those who are intimately acquainted with his habits. In these cases the heart's action is irregular, the appetite is capricious, nutrition is impaired, and emaciation occurs which is often associated with an unhealthy appearance like that due to malignant disease. The patient may suffer from visceral neuroses which often give rise to attacks of violent pain in the abdomen, re- sembling gallstone colic; also to periodical vomiting, like gastric crises. Later on indica- tions of peripheral neuritis may appear, such as parsesthesia, numbness of the hands and feet, with ataxic gait. Amongst better-class people the use of the hypodermic syringe has, to a great extent, replaced the more crude method of drinking laudanum. Enormous doses of morphine are thus self-administered ; as much as forty grains of morphine acetate, as a daily dose, has been reached and even exceeded. Under no circum- stances should a medical practitioner leave a hypodermic syringe in the possession of the patient. On some occasions the baneful habit has been brought about by the medical attendant, innocently, and without any idea of the evil that was likely to ensue, leaving a hypodermic syringe in charge of a patient who is subject to some recurrent painful affection, in order that he might be able to afford the sufferer immediate relief at a moment's notice. Sooner or later the patient takes the matter into his own hands, and uses the syringe secretly, with disastrous results. The best treatment of chronic opium poison- ing is to cut off the supply at once, which, however, is extremely diiJicult to accomplish unless the patient is placed under restraint. The abrupt cessation of the habit is held by some to be dangerous ; there may be cases where it is so, and then gradual withdrawal, combined with some special treatment, may be needed. It is risky to substitute some other drug for opium, as a means of weaning the habitun from its use; such a procedure is likely to complicate the issue and to prolong the cure. Care must be taken, both during and after the cure, to restrain the patient from the abuse of alcohol—an occur- rence not at all improbable. In addition to an intense craving for the drug so long indulged in, severe gastric pains, due to irritation of the sensory nerve-endings in the mucous membrane of the stomach by the gastric juice, are often experienced by those who have recently ceased the opium habit; the pains may be allayed by occasional doses of sodium bicarbonate. Mor- phine, whether swallowed or injected subcutane- ously, is chiefly eliminated by the stomach ; consequently, during the regular daily reception of the drug the nerves of the gastric mucous membrane are kept benumbed; when the be-