UTERUS, INFLAMMATIONS OF THE 342 is in some way associated with a previous labour or abortion; when we may conclude it had its starting-point in an imperfect involution of the uterus, or was due to some chronic infective process, the real nature of which we still imperfectly understand. This absence of any acute stage is very characteristic of inflammation generally in connection with the female sexual organs. In the great majority of cases of endometritis, endocervicitis, ovaritis, and salpingitis, the inflammation runs a subacute course from the commencement. The same thing is true of pelvic cellulitis and peritonitis. Displacements of the Uterus; Retroflexion and Co7u/e)iital Anteflexioji.—The presence of tumours in or near the uterus; stenosis of cervix; laceration of the cervix and cervical catarrh ; endometritis, and the repeated applica- tion of caustics to the endometrium; exposure to cold during menstruation ; improper cloth- ing ; excessive sexual intercourse; irritation produced by a badly-fitting vaginal pessary, or from an intra-uterine stem pessary, are all causes of chronic metritis, which probably acts by producing long-standing or repeated con- gestion of the uterine blood-vessels. Symptoms.—The prominent symptom is pelvic pain, dull, aching, or bearing down in its character, referred to the lower abdomen or sacral regions. This pain, though moi-e or less constantly present, is always worse on excitation, and is greatly aggravated immediately before and during menstruation. Along with this pain in the pelvis are associated other local symptoms, such as menorrhagia, leucorrhoea, and dysmenorrhoea. Painful defsecation and micturition are frequently complained of, and dyspareunia is always present. The patient is generally sterile, or if she becomes pregnant, aborts in the early months. As a result of the prolonged suffering and enforced sedentary habits, the subjects of chronic metritis frequently pass into a state of semi-invalidism, or become markedly neurasthenic. Chronic metritis is said to be responsible for a large proportion of the sofa and bath-chair population—the nervous, debilitated, dyspeptic women who wander from physician to physician or crowd the watering- places during the summer. No disease is more chronic, none is more difficult to treat success- fully. In many cases relief is got at the meno- pause. Too much reliance should not be placed on this, however. The pelvic pain may continue for years after, while the nervous symptoms very frequently become more marked at the climacteric. Treatment.—Treatment after childbirth and abortion, which is directed towards securing a perfect involution of the uterus, is the best preventive treatment of chronic metritis, the chronic congestion of the subinvoluted uterus being perhaps the commonest factor in the pro- duction of chronic metritis. The treatment when the disease is already present is very unsatisfactory and its results very uncertain, and in carrying it out great patience is necessary both on the part of the physician and the patient. In long-standing cases months may be necessary to effect even an approximate cure. From what has been said as to the pathology, probable cause, and symptoms of chronic metritis, it will be seen that the treatment must be both local and constitutional. The chief aim of local treatment is to diminish or prevent the uterine congestion which, if we cannot say definitely is the cause, at any rate we know greatly aggravates the condition. This passive congestion is best relieved by the use of the hot vaginal douche and the glycerine tampon. There are few cases of chronic metritis which will not benefit very markedly by a six weeks' or two months' course of douching and plugging if the treatment is properly carried out. Where possible it should be done by a trained nurse. For the first week the douche only should be used three or four times daily. The time occupied on each occasion should be not less than ten minutes, and the douche nozzle should be introduced well up to the roof of the vagina. The amount of fluid used is of no importance so long as the parts are fomented sufficiently long. The temperature of the fluid should be at first 110° F., and may be gradually increased to 120°. Should the douching be followed by an increase of the pelvic pain or by faintness the temperature must be lowered. To prevent the too rapid escape of the water from the vagina, and so obviate the frequent filling of the douche can, the patient should keep her hand over the vulvar orifice and allow the fluid to escape at intervals. The douche should be taken in the horizontal position if possible, and should be followed by half an hour's rest in the same posture. It is not necessary to add any medicaments to the douching fluid unless there is any vaginitis or cervical catarrh, when the best solution to use is one of corrosive subli- mate (1-3000). After a week's douching in this way pledgets of wool soaked in glycerine, or in an 8 per cent solution of ichthyol and glycerine, should be introduced into the vagina and packed carefully round the cervix. These should be removed in twenty-four hours and immediately after a douche is given. Twelve hours later another douche is administered, and the glycerine plug again introduced. During a course of such treatment the patient should if possible rest in bed all the time ; if this is not practicable, then for three or four hours each day flat on her back. The half-hour's rest after each douche should be strictly enforced. The hot douche depletes the congestion of the uterus by stimulating uterine contraction