482 VISION, THE FIELD OF found that increased restriction can be demon- strated as the duration of the examination extends. Further, if the resiilts of examinations in subdued light and in bright light be compared, it is found that the field is more extensiA'e in subdued light. This last point may easily be tested, and is comparatively of constant occurrence. All the more typical points with regard to the field in this condition depend upon the rapidity with which exhaustion supervenes when sustained functional activity is demanded. Since, however, the hysterical state may coexist with more grave nervous or other disease, further investigation is always necessary. Central vision often remains unaffected, but may also become deteriorated. Lead-poisoning occasionally produces a disturbance of vision similar to that met with in hysteria, though not with the same inconstancy of symptoms. In acute syphilitic choroiditis the field of vision, as Right Eye. Chart 4.—Partial ring scotoma from a case of retinitis pigmentosa. well as the visual acuity, are much reduced when examined in subdued light as compared to bright light. This forms a marked contrast to hysteria, and results from the presence of night-blindness in this condition. In the forms of choroiditis, where patches of degeneration occur at various parts of the fundus oculi, corresponding scotomata are found in the field. In some cases secondary optic atrophy plavs a prominent part in causing loss of sight. As the ophthalmoscopic signs are sufficient in these cases for diagnosis, it would be of little use to say anything further as to the field of vision in this connection. Retinitis pigmentosa occurs in both eyes, and is usually associated with night-blindness and concentric limitation of the field. The field may present the peculiarity of a ring-shaped scotomata. Central vision is not, as a rule, full, although often sufficient for reading. The prognosis is unfavourable, inasmuch as no treat- ment is of any avail, and while the condition may remain stationary for a long time, it tends to become worse {see Chart 4). Any injury to the eye such as might pro- duce commotio retinae, or haemorrhage into the retina or vitreous, will cause loss of the field corresponding to the site of lesion. The prognosis is, on the whole, good in these cases, though serious secondary effects may follow. Detachment of retina causes loss of vision usually in the form of a sector-shaped peri- pheral encroachment, often with a history of Kight Eye. Chart 5.—Detachment of retina. sudden onset {see Chart 5). The prognosis is bad in detachment of retina, as it often extends and seldom recovers. Central amblyopia is met with in a variety of conditions affecting the retina, choroid, and optic nerve. Central choroiditis can be recog- nised by \ means of the ophthalmoscope {see Chart 6). Scotomatous amblyopia following exposure of the retina to direct sunlight, and Right Eye. Chart 6.—Central choroiditis. sometimes caused by electric light, may be recognised from the history of the case and the mode of onset. Simple optic atrophy, with central scotoma, is often met with ; and central scotoma is also, although very infrequently, found in cases of glaucoma. Apart from these conditions just mentioned, the subject of central amblyopia may be generally considered in two divisions or groups of cases—toxic amblyopia and retro- bulbar neuritis.