235 UNDULANT FEVER so that the question of pyrexia in this fever will be dealt with first. Pyrexia.—The most noticeable points about the temperature charts of these cases are their extreme length, the variety of types they assume, and the tendency underlying the various types to produce undulatory waves of fever. The duration of the pyrexia, and the various types the chart may assume during the course of the attack, are both quite indefinite, and appear to follow no rule that can be made applicable to even a majority of these cases. The remittent type of chart is by far the commonest, but there may be a continuously high run of fever, or a long-continued low pyrexia, there may be remissions or there may be none, and the type of pyrexia may vary during the course of the attack, so that all three of these types may be produced in different parts of the same chart. A glance at the accompanying charts, which are selected from many hundreds of cases, will show much more clearly than any written de- scription what is meant by the different types of pyrexia met with in manner the waves of pyrexia from which this disease derives its name. It is not very common to have such definitely marked waves, but this undulant character will be found in every type of the pyrexia of this disease. Alimentary System.—The fauces and tonsils always show signs of more or less congestion, or even inflammation, in the first few days of the illness, with occasional enlargement and tender- ness of cervical glands. The tongue is furred; in acute cases a thick, dirty fur covering the whole tongue, in mild cases a light fur on the posterior half of the tongue, with the edges and anterior portion moist and clean. The tongue may be denuded of its surface epithelium in the acuter cases, and assume the glazed, raw ham appearance. In the later stages of all types of cases, provided they are under appropriate treatment, the tongue gets an appearance which is very typical of this disease—the whole tongue slightly en- larged and flabby, with tip, edges, and anterior portions moist and clean, but posterior portion lightly furred and moist, with transverse stria- m. ICS It » 103' I n ml the continuously cases seem quite this disease. The chart A is typical of the remit- tent type of fever. This type of the dis- ease usually lasts a very long time, is ac- companied by the more severe forms of neu- ritis, the sweating dur- ing the night is ex- cessive, but patients feel comparatively well all day and take food well. The chart B is typical of low form of pyrexia. These unaff'ected by treatment, do not as a rule suffer from neuritis, keep up their weight if generously fed, but seldom get rid of their disease without change of climate. The chart C illustrates a case, starting with continuously high form of pyrexia, lasting for nearly three weeks, and then taking on the remittent type. It is in this type of the disease that it is almost impossible, at any rate at the commence- ment of the illness, to make a diagnosis between undulant and enteric fever, without examination of the serum for Widal's reaction. These are the cases which have diarrhoea, distended abdomen, a large liver and spleen, with foul tongue and delirium. The enteric spots are of no value as a diagnostic help, as many cases of enteric, in tropical and subtropical climates, have no spots, and many cases of undulant fever have spots which may easily be mistaken for enteric spots, both by their appearance and the fact of fresh ones appearing day after day. The chart D illustrates in a very marked Chart A. tion. These transverse strise sometimes go quite deep into the surface epithelium, and look like cracks. There is often slight epigastric tender- ness during the first few days of fever, but very rarely any vomiting. Constipation is the general rule in this fever, though during high waves of temperature it is not uncommon to get diarrhcea with loose yellow motions. The appetite is poor for the first few days until the intestinal tract has been cleansed with purgatives and intestinal antiseptics, after that it is remarkably good, the patient suff"ering from this disease being able to digest solid food ex- tremely well, even when his temperature is running fairly high. The liver and spleen are both always enlarged, especially the spleen. During the height of a wave of fever the spleen is tender, enlarged, and very soft, hardening again as the tempera- ture comes down. Epistaxis is by no means uncommon in this disease, occurring in 6 per cent of the writer's cases. Nearly always it comes on at the height of a wave of fever, is severe as a rule, and the temperature usually goes steadily down after it. Tegumentary System. — Sweating is usually