TUMOURS OF THE SKIN 171 Payne), it should be kept separate from the sarcoma group. Chloroma is the name given to light green tumours of very rare occurrence, which chiefly affect the periosteum of the skull-bones, and consist of round cells with reticulated framework. Ziegler places them under the lympho-sarcomata. These tumours may involve the skin. Rhinoscleroma.—This is a very rare disease in this country, but it is not uncommon in Austria, where it was first described by Hebra and Kaposi. Other cases have been recorded in Russia, Italy, Brazil, and other countries. It is a growth of stony hardness to the touch, which affects the nares and adjacent parts, both true skin in one direction, such as that of the upper lip, and mucous membranes in the other, in the latter case slowly invading the naso- pharynx, and even involving the trachea and larynx. Nodules and flat infiltrations are observed. It is microscopically made up of granulation-tissue cells, with vacuolisation and hyaline degeneration in parts. The latter altered cells contain the specific bacillus. Although the disease is not malignant in the ordinary sense of that word, as it does not affect the general health and is localised, yet its slow but sure extension, and its rebelliousness to treatment, exclude it from the benign group of tumours. There is no tendency to spontaneous involution, and the disease goes on for years. It is, of course, a bad look-out when it involves the larynx and pharynx, for dangerous symptoms of obstruction would have to be dealt with. Excision is no use, as the growth recurs. Mechanical means must be employed to prevent the blocking up of the nares. Lang used metallic tubes covered with salicylic plaster to introduce into the nostrils; at the same time he injected a 1 per cent solution of salicylic acid into the growth, and exhibited the drug- internally. When blocking has taken place, sharp spooning or boring through with caustic potash would be the line to take. A masterly inactivity is indicated when there is no dis- comfort. The most likely things it could be mistaken for would be epithelioma and syphilis. As to the former, the fact that rhinoscleroma does not break down and ulcerate, and the very slow growth, together with the situation and so forth, would help to differentiate it from cancer. With regard to syphilis, specific remedies have no effect on rhinoscleroma. The microscopical examination of a portion of the growth would reveal its true nature. The bacillus stains well with methyl-violet. Before going on to benign tumours of the skin, a brief reference to cysticercus cellulosce cutis may be made here, chiefly on account of the possibility of these subcutaneous growths being- taken for malignant manifestations. But they have also been taken for fibromata, gummata, and so forth. They occur as firm, elastic tumours, from about a pea to a hazel nut in size, disseminated about the trunk and limbs. Wolff says as many as 2000 have been counted. The skin over them is unaltered either in colour or otherwise. The complaint is very rare in this country, but is less so where raw or improperly cooked pork is indulged in, as in Germany. Patients may also have cysts em- bedded in the mucous membranes of lips and tongue. When the tumours are well filled with fluid, they may give the impression of solid growths. Excision or puncture would reveal the characteristic booklets of the parasite. When the skin alone is aff'ected, the disease does not give reason for anxiety. But the prognosis becomes grave when fits occur, as this shows involvement of the brain by the parasite. Cystic growths may also occur about the heart coverings. The tumours may calcify and shrink in time. Benign Tumours MoLLUscuM CoNTAGiosuM.—In this disease, growths varying in size from a large pin-head or so, in the earliest stage, to a pea or larger, occur about the skin, chiefly the face, breasts, and nape, but they may also develop on the abdomen and external genitalia. They are firm, sessile, prominent, solid tumours, hemispherical in shape, with slightly flattened top, pearly white or pinkish in colour, and usually umbili- cated. These are the points that make the diagnosis. The morbid process takes place in the Malpighian layer of the epidermis. Micro- scopical sections show wedge-shaped lobules, the result of special changes in the cells, which enlarge and undergo degeneration, the so-called moUuscum bodies, accompanied by an oblitera- tion of the papillary processes. The accumula- tion of these cells leads to breaking down of the horny stratum at the centre of the tumour. By some observers these molluscum bodies are looked upon as coccidial parasites. The con- tents can then be squeezed out, leaving a hole behind. Or the growth may undergo a process of ulceration, leading in some instances to an angry-looking sore, which, when situated about the mouth or face, may give rise to a suspicion of primary chancre. But the glands are not enlarged, and the characteristic molluscum lesions would be found in the neighbourhood, if carefully looked for. Very large growths have been recorded. Colcott Fox recently showed an extremely extensive case—a woman in whom there were a number of growths on the scalp and adjacent parts of the face, the condition having been overlooked and allowed to progress unchecked before the patient came under his observation. Clinically, it might to unpractised observers have suggested malignant growths.