TRADES, DANGEROUS 85 ing is generally due to lead having been taken, not with the view of causing death suicidally, but to induce abortion in pregnancy. Accidental lead-poisoning is mostly due to drinking contaminated water. Under such circumstances the malady assumes almost an epidemic character. In a town or locality several people are found to be suffering at the same time from plumbism. Certain waters are known to exercise a greater solvent influence upon lead pipes than others. Water that is soft and of moorland origin owing to the presence therein of free acid that has been generated during the decomposition of peat, also water that contains iron, are capable of dissolving out a sufficient quantity of lead from the pipes to cause in a very short time symp- toms of such severity as to threaten life or to incapacitate the individual for weeks, or even months. Several towns in Yorkshire have within the last few years suffered from plumbism traceable to this source. The ad- dition of unburnt lime or of magnesian lime- stone to the filter-beds, or allowing the drinking water to gravitate through layers of sand, confers upon the water that degree of hardness, or gives to it such salts as carbonates and silicates, whereby an insoluble coating is deposited on the inside of the pipe which, in the absence of free carbonic acid, forms a protective covering. It is to the numerous industries that we look for the largest number of cases of lead-poison- ing, and among these the manufacture of red and white lead, manufacture of certain kinds of pottery, and the occupation of house-painting may be specially mentioned. In Britain the getting of the raw ore is not attended by any risk to the miner from plumbism, but at the Brocken Hill mines in Australia, where the ore exists very largely in the form of carbonate, there has been much sickness among the miners due to lead. In Britain the danger commences with the smelting of the lead ore. There is little risk from the manipulation of metallic lead compared with that incurred by the handling and inhalation of lead compounds. The more soluble these compounds are, the greater is the danger. Among the recognised dangerous compounds may be mentioned the red oxide, carbonate or white lead, acetate, and chromate. In any industry in which these salts of lead are made or handled the work- people, unless they are particularly careful, run the risk of losing their health sooner or later. In the manufacture of pottery the earthenware is glazed by being dipped in a composition that contains a large quantity of lead carbonate or oxide. When the ware is dried and is being cleaned or brushed there is given off a consider- able amount of dust, the inhalation or swallow- ing of which induces plumbism. Lead com- pounds, too, are used for colouring pottery. and especially for what is known as majolica ware. Workers in pottery are, in many ways, therefore, exposed to the risk of lead-poisoning. The frequency of lead-poisoning, too, in house- painters has conferred upon the malady, through one of its symptoms, the name of painters' colic. Within recent years several new industries have developed. Of these the one that is specially productive of plumbism is the manufacture of electrical batteries for telegraph and telephone purposes. In the manufacture of these batteries perforated lead plates are used. The openings in the grid have to be filled by a composition that looks like red clay, but which is a mixture of red oxide of lead. During the mixing of the dry powders that form the composition a considerable amount of dust rises and is inhaled, and during the rubbing of the paste into the openings in the plate, which is usually done by the hands encased in india-rubber gloves, some of the paste, owing to a tear in the gloves, gets rubbed into the skin and causes plumbism. Of the other trades risky to health from the handling of lead or its compounds may be mentioned file-cutting by hand, house- and coach-painting, the dyeing of wool by means of chromate of lead, and, especially on the Con- tinent, the handling of type by compositors for printing newspapers, etc. In Britain and America newspaper printing is now so largely done by means of the linotype machine instead of by hand-set type, that while linotyping is not absolutely free from the possibility of lead- poisoning, the risk is so extremely small com- pared with that incurred by setting up the type by hand, that the two methods can scarcely be contrasted. In hand-file cutting and in pottery manufacture, in addition to the risks from plumbism, the death-rate from pulmonary phthisis is extremely high, owing to the dusty nature of the occupation. In addition to the accidental and industrial forms of lead-poisoning, allusion has been made to that which is self-induced. Lead salts are very rarely resorted to for suicidal purposes; but as lead is known to possess distinctly ecbolic properties, the ignorant often have recourse to diachylon pills for the purpose of procuring abortion. Self-administration of the pills has, in the Midlands, where the practice is more prevalent than in other parts of England, caused death in some instances, and in others induced such serious symptoms as paralysis and loss of vision. Of the sexes females are, I think, on the whole more susceptible to lead than males, so too are young persons and all who are ill- nourished, anaemic, and intemperate in the use of alcohol. The channels by which lead effects an entrance into the system are the alimentary canal and respiratory passages, and also the skin. Workers in white lead not only inhale