TUBERCULOSIS 130 characterised by advance by way of the lymphatics into the septa, rather than by invasion of the vesicles. The cases are long protracted, and the process of the disease is slow. In the lung there is abundant cicatrisa- tion, so that the fibrous or fibroid changes are very evident, and may result in cure. The part of the lung affected is very firm, dense, pigmented. It usually contains small cavities with purulent contents, or at the centre of the mass a dry cheesy focus may be present. The interstitial tissue at the margins becomes greatly thickened and the vesicles contracted; their endothelium becomes cubical, so that in a well- marked case they present the appearance of narrow gland tubules. Giant cells are always to be seen at one part or other. Round the fibroid contracted patches emphy- sema usually develops, and by the retraction of the thickened fibrous septa attached to the walls of bronchi these undergo irregular dilata- tion—bronchiectasis. Larynx, Trachea, and Bronchi. — Tuber- culosis in larynx and trachea is rarely primary. It usually follows a destructive tuberculosis of the lungs, the sputum passing over the surface being the infective agent. In the case of the smaller bronchi the tubercles may extend along the wall in the lymphatics, develop into the yellow caseous tubercles, and break down into the lumen of the bronchus. Wherever occurring, the final result is ulcera- tion. The single ulcer is more or less rounded, and sometimes shows distinct tubercles at its edge. In the trachea the early ulcers may coalesce so as to produce a peculiar superficial worm-eaten appearance, which is somewhat characteristic. This appearance is not constant, and the ulcers may remain few in number, tending to extend at their edges, which are thickened, and also deeply into the wall, the general characters resembling those of tuber- culous ulcers elsewhere. In connection with the larynx tuberculosis usually begins below the epiglottis, differing from syphilitic ulceration, which usually starts on the upper surface or edges of the epiglottis and works downwards into the larynx. The most common situation of tuberculous ulcers of the larynx is at the posterior ends of the vocal cords, when they extend deeply at the bases of the arytenoid cartilages, their depth being great in proportion to their superficial area. The cartilages may be separated and destroyed. From this situation the ulceration may extend along the aryteno-epiglottic folds, or forwards and downwards in the larynx and trachea. Heart and Pericardium. — The heart is rarely affected by tuberculosis. It is most commonly met with in the form of caseous nodules in the heart muscle, the septum ventriculorum being frequently selected, or the outer wall of the ventricles. It accompanies tuberculosis elsewhere. Tuberculosis of the endocardium is sometimes seen aff'ecting the mural endocardium, but more frequently as a valvular condition with the usual features of an acute endocarditis. It is rare, however, judging from the experience of Edinburgh pathologists. Tuberculosis of the pericardium is more common, but not so frequently met with in this country as American and German statistics would lead us to expect. Acute miliary tuber- culosis may accompany a generalised tuber- culosis, occurring in 7 cases out of 355 cases of tuberculosis examined in the Royal Hospital for Sick Children in Edinburgh. It may also ex- tend from a softened mediastinal gland, or a tuberculous pleurisy or peritonitis. In older subjects it is characterised by great general or nodular thickening, by abundant fibrinous or hsemorrhagic exudation, beneath which small tubercles are seen. It is remarkable, nevertheless, how often the pericardium escapes, even though surrounded by tuberculous disease of lungs, pleura, peri- toneum, or glands. When it does occur, and the patient survives long enough, the pericardium becomes greatly thickened and frequently adherent, encasing the heart in a dense thick fibrous capsule, in the deep layers of which caseous tubercles are evident. Lymphatic Glands.—These glands areaffected very commonly following the lungs as favourite points of attack by the tubercle bacillus. Frequently no other lesion can be made out, and softened tuberculous glands frequently become the starting-point of a generalised tuberculosis. The changes macroscopically and micro- scopically are similar to those seen elsewhere. The bacilli are caught in the sinuses, or brought thither enclosed in leucocytes. If active they set up reaction, producing the grey tubercle, so that the enlarged gland may show small grey points. These must be distinguished from the uniformly mottled appearance obtained in other conditions. Part or the whole of the gland caseates and may break down, discharging its virulent con- tents on an epithelial or endothelial surface. The condition may retrogress at any stage, and heal by fibrosis, or if caseation has occurred the dead tissue may become encapsuled and invaded by fibrous tissue, and it may dry up and become the seat of calcareous deposit. Tuberculosis of lymphatic glands is of supreme importance, from the point of view of origin and spread of the disease. It may now be granted that the bacilli fre- quently enter the system by way of the tonsils and pharyngeal tonsillar structures, being carried inwards by leucocytes. They are fre-