521 WATER the distillate is free from ammonia. Now pour into the flask the measured quantity of water by means of a pipette ; distil over 50 c.c. Add to the liquid in the flask 50 c.c. of pure distilled water, and distil a second 50 c.c. Nesslerise the distillates. The amount of ammonia obtained multiplied by '823 gives the nitric nitrogen in the quantity of water used for the experiment, and must be calculated to parts per 100,000. Chlorine.—Measure 100 c.c. of water into a white porcelain capsule, add 10 drops of solution of chromate of potassium, and run in standard silver nitrate solution from the burette until a red tint appears. Each c.c. of silver solution used represents one part of chlorine in 100,000 of water. Total Hardness.—Measure 100 c.c. of water into a 250 c.c. stoppered bottle, and add standard soap solution from a burette, with constant agitation, until an abundant lather is produced. (Similar to that produced by 1 c.c. of the soap solution in 100 c.c. of dis- tilled water.) The number of c.c. of soap solution used minus 1 gives the hardness per 100,000 parts. Permanent Hardness.—Place 150 c.c. of the water in a boiling flask and boil gently for 15 or 20 minutes, adding a little distilled water from time to time to replace that lost by eva- poration. Allow to cool, make up to 150 c.c, and filter off 100 c.c. The hardness in this is estimated as above, and represents the per- manent hardness. Temporary Hardness. — The total hardness less the permanent hardness gives the tempo- rary hardness. Lead and Iron.—Place 50 c.c. of the water in a Nessler cylinder, and add about 5 drops of the solution of calcium polysulphide. A brown tint indicates lead or iron. Add dilute HCl drop by drop until the liquid becomes turbid. If the brown colour disappears the impurity is due to iron ; if the brown tint remains, lead is present. The amount may be very simply estimated by contrasting the tint produced with that in artificially prepared solu- tions containing known amounts of lead. Zinc.—Place 50 c.c. of water in a Nessler cylinder, very faintly acidulate with HCl, and add 2 or 3 drops of solution of potassium ferrocyanide. Put in a dark place for half an hour. If a turbidity is produced zinc is present. (If iron be present the liquid will become blue ; if copper, a red tint develops.) Free Ammonia.—Place 250 c.c. in a boiling flask and distil over 50 c.c. Unless the water contains a great excess of ammonia the whole is found in this distillate. The amount of ammonia in this distillate is determined by the process of " Nesslerisation." This consists of adding to the distillate 2 c.c. of Nessler's solution (a solution of mercuric iodide in caustic soda or potash), and imitating the depth of colour produced by adding Nessler's solution to pure distilled water to which definite quan- tities of solution of ammonium chloride have been added. The ammonium chloride solution is made of such a strength that 1 c.c. corre- sponds to '01 mg. of ammonia. The water remaining in the retort is used in the next experiment. Albuminoid Ammonia.—Distil over another 50 c.c. and pour into the distilled water bottle. Add by means of a funnel 25 c.c. of alkaline solution of permanganate of potassium and distil off" two 50 c.c. Nesslerise as before. The amount of ammonia obtained in the last two experiments multiplied by '4 gives the ammonia in 100,000 parts of water. If multi- plied by 4 the result will be in part per million. Oxygen Absorbed. — Use a solution of per- manganate of potassium, each c.c. of which represents "1 mg. of available oxygen. In a stoppered flask (thoroughly well cleansed with dilute acid to which a little permanganate has been added and afterwards rinsed) place 250 c.c. of the water to be examined together with 10 c.c. of dilute sulphuric acid (25 per cent), and 10 c.c. of the dilute permanganate. Keep at 80° F. for four hours. If the colour fades much add a second 10 c.c. of permanganate. Prepare a dilute solution of sodium thio- sulphate by diluting 1 c.c. of a strong solution to 100 c.c. with distilled water. To the water which has stood for four hours add 2 c.c. of solution of starch and zinc iodide, and run in from a burette the dilute thiosul- phate solution until the blue colour just dis- appears. Note the amount a required. Now add 10 c.c. of the dilute permanganate solution, and again titrate with the thiosulphate. The amount b now used is the equivalent of 1 milli- gram of oxygen. Then h — a —= oxygen consumed by 250 c.c. of water. This multiplied by "4 gives the oxygen ab- sorbed in parts per lOO'OOO ; if multiplied by 4 the result is in parts per million. Bacteriological Examination op Water.— 1. Number of Colonies per Cubic Centimetre.— Make two gelatine plates (Petrie dishes) using "5 and 1 c.c. respectively of the water to be examined. Incubate at 20° C. for four days. Examine the plates daily, and if liquefaction is setting in count the number of liquefying and non-liquefying colonies. Non-liquefying colonies resembling those of B. typhosus or B. coli may be counted and picked out for further experiments. Jelly of uniform composition and reaction should always be used. AH the colonies visible under a small hand lense should be counted. 2. Examination for Bacillus Coli.—Add 1 c.c. of the water to 10 c.c. of broth containing -05 per cent of phenol. Incubate at 36° to 37° C.