442 VERRUGA PERUANA break of fever among the Trans-Andean railway constructors, which Espinal suggested was a phase of verruga, aroused fresh interest; and in 1885 Carrion, a Lima student, threw ad- ditional light on the subject by inoculating himself with blood from a verrugous tumour, and producing a fatal disease strongly resembling this "Oroya" fever. His experiment gave strong evidence in favour of the identity of the two diseases (a view supported by clinical ex- perience), and also went far to prove the inoculability of verruga. Etiology. — That verruga is inoculable is certain, but it cannot be highly contagious, as cases are treated in general wards. The very young, if attacked, are apt to suffer from the graver forms, whereas the elderly enjoy a certain immvinity from these (Odriozola), but sex has no influence. Unlike yaws, the disease is by no means confined to coloured races, but the actual inhabitants of the endemic areas acquire some immunity, while the new arrival is particularly liable to suffer. Malarial infec- tion frequently obscures the clinical picture, but has no etiological significance. Like that disease, however, but more markedly, verruga is confined to certain districts, while its out- breaks bear distinct relation to soil disturbance, and coincide with the drying of the soil after floods. The endemic valleys have rocky sides and earthy bottoms, and the streams which traverse them overflow twice a year. From the stillness of the atmosphere and the high tem- perature, their vegetation is tropical even at considerable altitudes. The water itself has often been suggested as, and is popularly sup- posed to be, the source of infection, but is probably guiltless, although its floods no doubt exercise a subsidiary influence. The connection with soil-disturbance and frequent occurrence in soil-workers suggest a telluric factor in causa- tion ; and Firth, on account of the prevalence of helminthiasis, mentions the possibility of an association with some worm passing its free state in mud. From the peculiar limitation, some local condition, perhaps the physical features, evidently plays an important part in development; and the infrequency, mildness, and apparent inability to spread of cases occur- ring elsewhere point the same way. An organism seems by far the most probable cause, and the limitations of tsetse-fly disease, and the recently discovered connection of malaria with mosquitoes, suggest the possibility of a some- what analogous conveyance of infection by insects peculiar to these districts. Symptoms.—The incubation period is not yet accurately determined, and may last from a week to two months or perhaps more ; Odriozola gives the average as about forty days. Vague pains, chills, and alimentary disturbances, with gradually increasing anaemia, enfeeblement, and slight nocturnal fever, constitute the common prodromal symptoms. Of the developed disease there are two manifestations : the constitutional disturbance and the eruption. Both usually occur, but at times the first is hardly noticeable, and, on the other hand, is occasionally so pro- found that death ensues without any appearance of eruption, constituting the grave form or Oroya fever. If the eruption disappears too rapidly, very similar symptoms may supervene, even without internal verrugse. The onset is usually marked by chills and irregular, remit- tent, or intermittent fever, often accompanied by profuse sweats. There is profound prostra- tion, anorexia, thirst, and frequently marked gastric irritability and hiccough. The tongue is pale and flabby. More characteristic, how- ever, are the extreme and rapidly produced anaemia, the intense headache, muscular cramps, and bone and joint pains, and the frequent tenderness and enlargement of liver, spleen, and lymphatic glands. The red cells and hsemoglobin are diminished, and there is a leucocytosis. From anaemia there results pallor, or (from blood destruction) an icteric complexion, marked vertigo, or even syncope, cardiac mur- murs, quickened pulse and respiration, oedema and tinnitus, insomnia and dreams. The pains, dull or acute, are worse at night, and especially involve the extremities. Very rarely there is slight joint-swelling. Cases are often compli- cated by haemorrhages, particularly epistaxis or petechias, serous diarrhoea, or pulmonary con- gestion. With gradual fall of temperature the general condition may improve and recovery follow, but severe cases proceed with continual or occasional falling temperature, increased rest- lessness and low delirium, and end in coma and death, hastened perhaps by pulmonary or in- testinal complications. Eruptive Phase. — Usually this supervenes after an interval of one or two months marked by vague " reminders," such as pains or slight fevers. It may, however, coincide, or to some extent alternate, with the general symptoms, or even precede them. Its time of appearance, duration, and degree of exuberance bear distinct relation to the severity of attack, and when scanty or delayed render prognosis graver. Constitutional manifestations are less severe than in non-eruptive cases, and lymphatic en- largement, vertigo, and vomiting are rare, but oedema (resulting from the eruption) is more marked. The clinical features may, however, be altered by the development of verrugae in internal organs. The two types of eruption may occur separately or together. The smaller (superficial) commence in the superficial layers of the skin as petechiae, shining transparent spots, little horny elevations, or rarely as vesicles or pustules (odriozala), and enlarge into little reddish shining tumours from a pea to an orange in size. They are sessile or pedunculated, discrete or confluent, localised or general, and