VACCINATION 386 governors, and persons of the greatest distinc- tion, who took into their arms the little children who were to carry the cowpox to the indigenous Americans and the Malays of the Philippine Islands, and returned thanks to God for having been the witnesses of so happy an event." If we now inquire what was the immediate effect of vaccination in the early years of the nineteenth century, we must remember that throughout the civilised world there were two influences which aided vaccination then more powerfully than they have ever done since. Every adult person at that time knew from personal or family experience what smallpox was. Every one had lost relatives by it; he had seen with his own eyes what it involved. There is no such lesson as to the value of vacci- nation as an experience of smallpox; it was a lesson which all had learnt. Moreover, the adult population was in a very large measure, as has already been said, protected by having had the disease in childhood. It was not there- fore necessary to vaccinate every one. If the children were vaccinated, a large proportion of the entire population was protected. These two influences worked powerfully in support of vaccination in the early years of the last century. There seem to have been few or no vaccination laws. Fear of smallpox influenced the majority of parents; careless and indolent people were successfully controlled by public opinion and by indirect pressure. In Copenhagen, for instance, in the twelve years before vaccination was practised, an average of 458 persons each year had died of smallpox. From 1802 to 1818 the average mortality dropped from 450 to 9'8 in spite of the absence of direct compulsion in support of vaccination. No child was admitted into the public schools, no one could be con- firmed or apprenticed to a trade, no one could be married, without proving that he had either been vaccinated or had had the smallpox. Auspach, in Bavaria, furnishes a similar example. Here the annual average mortality from small- pox had been 500. In 1800 there was a severe epidemic which killed 1609, and which no doubt also protected from future attacks some 5000 or 6000 persons who had survived the illness. In the next eleven years, by the aid of infantile vaccination, there was a total smallpox mortality of five only. Much the same thing occurred in many English towns. Parental anxiety to escape an evil so familiar and so justly dreaded, led to a large amount of infant vaccination, and the adult population was in considerable measure immune. At Norwich, for example, from 1810 to 1813, there was scarcely any smallpox, not a single case from 1813 to 1818. Gradually the knowledge and memory of small- pox died out, the anxiety about it disappeared, the public appreciation of the immense value of infant vaccination diminished, the children vaccinated ten or fifteen years earlier were out- growing their protection, the adults who had had smallpox in their youth were passing away, and as soon as the contagion was intro- duced a large number of unprotected people were prepared to receive it. The Norwich epidemic of 1819 was a severe one. Cross estimates that one-thirteenth of the whole population suffered; there were 530 deaths. This brings us to the question, How far is the protection of vaccination absolute and lasting 1 It is a familiar fact about almost all the contagious fevers, that, as a rule, one attack protects against subsequent ones. How this immunity is gained no one even now knows with precision. A few years ago it was sup- posed that in the course of each of these illnesses something was removed from the body, in the absence of which the contagious germs could not again develop. The more modern view is that in each of the self-protective con- tagious illnesses an antidote is formed in the course of the development of the tens of millions of germs which cause the illness, and that the antidote remains, and is the protective agent against future attacks (vide art. " Immunity," vol. iv.). The antidote has in fact been pro- duced by the development of the germs, and it is owing to its presence that the illness in question comes to an end. The antidote is probably chemical in nature. It is certain that the poisons of many contagious diseases can be grown of varying strengths; they can by one method be made more virulent, and by another less so. There is a large amount of evidence in support of Jenner's original view that smallpox and cowpox both come from the same poison; human smallpox being probably a very virulent development of a milder disease common to several animals. Several good observers have succeeded, though not without difficulty, in inoculating calves with human smallpox, and in getting, after a few removes, vesicles which yield lymph that protects from smallpox. The opponents of vaccination constantly dwell upon the supposed absurdity of preventing one disease by the induction of another, and a quite different one. Their argument falls to the ground if an essential and close relationship has been proved to exist between human small- pox, cowpox, and its analogue in the equine race known as horse-grease. In the early efforts to prove, experimentally, the pathological identity of these three diseases, the great majority of the results were entirely negative. Considering how much commoner cowpox was a century ago than it is now, it is likely that the animals upon which the variolous inocula- tion was attempted were often immune, from having already had cowpox. Basil Thiele of Kasan twice, in 1836 and in 1838, however, succeeded in inoculating a cow with variolous matter, and in producing cowpox; Ceely in