357 UTERUS, NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE these polypi are cystic they are known as " channelled polypi," when the connective tissue is dense the term " fibro-cystic polypus" is applied. Probably many cases of endometritis, polyposa, fungosa, and htemorrhagica are really cases of multiple polypi (or pedunculated adeno- mata) of the endometrium; and just as these soft cervical polypi occasionally undergo malig- nant change, so the cognate condition of the endometrium may sometimes be precedent to one or more varieties of malignant disease of the body of the uterus. Localised hypertrophy of the cervical glands certainly _ constitutes adenoma cervicis benigna or maligna in different cases (see Williams on Cancel' of the Uterus, London, 1888, pp. 40-44). 3. Malignant polypi {see p. 371). 4. Placental polypi Sindi fibrinous polypi may be considered together ; for while in the former the fibrin of the blood is deposited on a shred of placenta or membrane, in the latter it is de- posited on a ligature or suture left exposed after an operation such as hysterectomy. They are not neoplasms but accidents. The diagnosis is easy, the soft jelly-like clot, usually red, but sometimes decolorised, being unlike any ordinary growth. The foreign body which caused the coagulation being removed, the whole process comes to an end. The one symptom is haemor- rhage, moderate in amount and persistent in character. In both cases the previous history of the case is likely to help to a correct diagnosis, the placental polypus occurring only after mis- carriage or labour at term. 5. Papillomatous polypi are usually malignant. A papilloma of the cervix is rarely innocent; and even when apparently simple it demands removal with the portion of cervix from which it grows, as too often it recurs and eventually demonstrates its essentially malignant character. 6. Tuberculous polypi are rare, and probably often escape diagnosis because their existence is not borne in mind. Angiomata and teleangiectatic tumours are varieties of the fibro-myomata (see p. 348). Adeno-myomata This is believed to be a rare form of " fibroid," but until all tumours removed by operation, or post-mortem, are carefully examined by the microscope as well as by the naked eye, it is not possible to know anything definite about their histology, and many cases of adeno-myomata may pass unrecognised. The glandular structures found in "fibroids" are derived from (a) ingrowths of the glands of of the uterine mucosa; (6) remains of the Wolffian body. When the glandular elements of a fibro- myoma are derived from the glands of the mucosa the tumour is more or less central, abut- ting on the cavity of the uterus. When the glandular elements are derived from remains of the Wolfiian body, the tumour is situated near a uterine cornu, or at any rate peripherally. Similar tumours are occasionally found in the Fallopian tube. The fibrous, muscular, and glandular elements coexist in varying proportions in individual tumours. When the glandular element pre- dominates, the tumour may be very soft, full of cysts, and sometimes teleangiectatic or angiomatous. The chief interest of these adeno-myomata uteri lies in their obviously probable connection with carcinomatous degeneration of "fibroids," rare though that degeneration is. Such a de- generation has been discussed by Kelly, Senn, Macnaughton Jones, Hektoen and Riessman, and other authorities. The whole subject wants much careful pathological research. Kelly, in his Operative Gynecology, vol. ii. p. 385, under the heading " Adeno-myoma uteri diffusum benignum," says : "In the Johns Hop- kins Hospital Reports, vol. vi. p. 133, Dr. T. S. CuUen describes one of my cases constituting a new variety of myoma, under the name of 'Adeno- myoma uteri diffusum benignum.' I have also had two more cases during the past year. These adeno-myomata are rather more interesting from the pathological than from the clinical stand- point, because their true character cannot be recognised before operation, as their symptoms do not differ from those of simple myomata." Hektoen and Riessman, in their Text-Book of Pathology, vol. ii. p. 1040, say: "Adeno-myomata are a rare form of myomata of the uterus con- taining gland-elements. The epithelial canals in these tumours are either derived from the uterine mucosa or the remains of the Wolffian body," etc. In Stanmore Bishop's Uterine Fibro-Myomata, p. 95, we find the following: " In certain cases very distinct epithelial relics are found in myomata. These seem to represent remains of the primitive epithelium of Miiller's duct. Relics of the Wolffian duct are found in the uterine wall. . . . Max Voigt has detected distinct glandular structures in two myomata. Hauser and Diesterweg trace these glands to Miiller's duct, Nagel and Breus to the duct of the Wolffian body." These remarks explain how a fibroid sometimes becomes cancerous, a change which they believe occurs. " Von Recklinghausen, following von Babes, who in 1882 detected true epithelial growths in the interior of uterine myomata, traces these growths, tubular or glandular bodies lined with epithelium, to the Wolffian duct. Coblenz in- sisted on the pathological importance of the uterine portion of that duct," et seq. Differential Diagnosis of Uterine Fibroids May be considered under two heads :— 1. While the tumour is still of moderate size