UVULA, DISEASES OF 379 uvulas may be present, either side by side or one in front of the other. Even a case of triple uvula has been described ; a normal uvula in the centre with a rudimentary one at each side. Acute uvulitis is usually only a part of an acute pharyngitis, though it may occur inde- pendently. It arises from exposure to cold, from septic infection, or from traumatism. Most commonly it is seen along with acute ton- sillitis and peritonsillar abscess, or in association with tertiary specific or tubercular ulceration. The uvula may become gi'eatly swollen and (Edematous, and attain such length and thick- ness as to cause extreme distress. The writer can recall a case in which the uvula attained the length of the little finger and the patient had sat up all night with his uvula lying on his tongue, as any attempt to lie down brought on a severe laryngeal spasm. An acutely inflamed uvula may be relieved by sucking ice, or by an application of cocaine (10 per cent to 20 per cent); but if there be much oedema, scarification or amputation gives the most rapid relief. Chronic uvulitis is practically always associ- ated with chronic pharyngitis or naso-pharyn- gitis. The uvula is congested and relaxed, or slightly elongated and thickened. Any symp- toms complained of in such cases will be found to depend on the accompanying pharyngitis and not on the slight changes in the uvula. Elongated uvula is frequently only an exag- gerated form of chronic uvulitis, in which the congested and hypertrophied uvula has attained abnormal length. In another form there is no congestion or inflammatory change, but merely extreme length of the uvula as a whole, or great prolongation of the mucous membrane beyond the muscular tissue. The causes of elongation of the uvula are the same as produce chronic pharyngitis. Lennox Browne believes it is specially common in persons who use the voice professionally during catarrhal attacks. The non-inflammatory form is in most instances primarily congenital in Bosworth's opinion. In the great majority of cases an elongated uvula causes no symptoms, and in any case there is no correspondence between the length of the uvula and the amount of discomfort it may cause. This will depend rather on the irritability of the pharynx and the tempera- ment of the individual. In one patient we see a greatly elongated uvula and yet there is no complaint, while in another a uvula only moder- ately elongated gives rise to much cough and irritation, which disappear on its partial ampu- tation. It is therefore sometimes difficult to determine how far the uvula is the cause of the symptoms complained of, and we should first seek for, and remove, other sources of irritation before shortening the uvula. No doubt the uvula is frequently blamed for symptoms arising from granular pharyngitis or catarrh of the naso-pharynx, and its removal, being as simple as cutting the end off a piece of string, adopted without justification. In a small proportion of cases an elongated uvula does produce well-marked and even dis- tressing symptoms. Among these are per- sistent covigh, made worse by lying down ; the feeling of a foreign body, giving rise to frequent effort at " clearing" the throat; retching, or even vomiting, on getting up in the morning and after meals; and in rare cases, especially among those who smoke and drink to excess, laryngeal spasm. A few extreme cases are on record where the persistent cough and the emaciation caused by the frequent vomiting of food have led to a diagnosis of phthisis being erroneously made. Treatment.—Where the uvula is only moder- ately elongated and the symptoms slight, astringent paints, lozenges, or gargles may be employed. If, however, the symptoms are distressing, and we are convinced the uvula is the cause, it is better to remove the redundant tissue at once. The best method of doing this is by means of the forceps and scissors devised for the purpose. After applying a 20 per cent solution of cocaine to the parts, the tongue should be well depressed so as to obtain a good view, and the tongue-depressor then given to the patient to hold. Seizing the tip of the uvula with the forceps held in the left hand, it should be gently drawn forwards but not pulled upon, while with one cut of the scissors the excess of tissue is removed. In this way the cut, running from before backwards and upwards, leaves the wounded surface posteriorly. The whole uvula should never be removed, else it may be followed by persistent pain, difiSculty in swallowing, and loss of vocal power. Our object should be to leave a uvula of normal length. The amount of pain which follows this small operation varies greatly in different cases, and may be very severe for some days. All food should be soft and cold, and the patient should talk as little as possible. The sucking of ice is the best means of relieving the pain. Though the writer has never met with it, quite a large number of cases of severe primary and secondary haemorrhage after uvulotomy are on record. Neiv groivths of the uvula are rare, with the exception of papilloma, which may occur either as a sessile or pedunculated growth. Other growths which have been met with include angioma, mucous polypus, and primary carci- noma. Paralysis of the uvula is common after diphtheria, and may occur alone or along with paralysis of the palate.