497 VITAL STATISTICS the patients in the two groups were not widely different, and unless the series are sufficiently long to avoid the fallacy due to paucity of data. Errors from the Composition of Kates.—If the death-rate of A, having a population of 10,000, is 10 per 1000, and of B, having a population of 20,000, is 15 per 1000, the com- bined death-rate is not ^^~^==12'5. To ob- tain the correct combined death-rate the number of deaths in A (=100), and in B ( = 300), must first be ascertained, and then the death-rate in a population of 30,000 in which 400 deaths occurred = 13'3 per 1000. Errors prom stating Deaths in Proportion TO Total Deaths.—There is nothing erroneous per se in stating the proportion of deaths at one age as a ratio of the total deaths at all ages, or the deaths from one cause as a ratio of the total deaths from all causes. It is a useful, and, in fact, the only method practicable, when it is required to give the proportion of one of these to the other. But beyond this such ratios cannot be trusted. For instance, the proportion of fatal accidents among male infants is 12-2, and among female infants 25•! per cent of the total fatal accidents in the male and female sex respectively. But it would be erroneous if it were concluded from these figures that females are more subject to accidents than male infants. The only conclusion that they justify is that, at higher ages, females are much less subject to fatal accidents than males. In actual fact, for every 1000 infants born, only 2-9 females, as against 3-1 males, die under one year of age as the result of accident. Again, suppose the case of two towns, A and B. A, with a population of 10,000, has 150 annual deaths, of which 20 are caused by cancer; the general death-rate, therefore, being 15, and the death-rate from cancer 2'0 per 1000, while the deaths from cancer form ^--^ of the total deaths. B, with the same population as A, has 300 deaths, its death-rate being 30 per j 1000, and 40 deaths from cancer, its cancer death-rate being 4-0 per 1000, while the pro- portion of the deaths from cancer to the total deaths is yt before. It is useful to know in regard to each of these individual communities that cancer causes of its total mortality, but no comparison between the two is practicable on this basis. The only proper comparison is between the death-rate from cancer per 1000 of population in A and B, which shows that it is I twice as high in B as in A. A still more I accurate method is to ascertain the number of t deaths from cancer, and the number living at [ different age-groups, thus avoiding any errors I due to variations in age and sex distribution of I population. ' Errors as to Averages.—The most common J of these results from paucity of data (p. 496). { Note that the results obtained from an average i VOL. X cannot be applied to a particular case. The mean duration or expectation of life obtained from a life-table expresses, with almost mathe- matical certainty, the number of years of life of the members of a community taken one with another; but is often not accurate when applied to a single individual. In army statistics errors have arisen by failure to comprehend what is meant by the average strength of a force. The statistics must com- prise the lives of a given number of persons, as well as the deaths occurring among them, for an entire year, or allowance must be made in this respect when required. Hospital statistics for similar reasons are fre- quently fallacious. Thus death-rates have been frequently given per 100 occupied beds, which are most misleading, as the frequency of suc- cession of patients, as well as the nature of the patients' complaints, will vary greatly in different hospitals. The only proper method of stating hospital death-rates is on the basis of the ag- gregate annual number of cases treated to a termination. The cases should be further sub- divided according to age, and sex, and disease. Average death-rates from epidemic diseases, when used to compare one community with another, may give rise to erroneous conclusions. This is inseparable from the nature of such diseases. During the period under comparison one town may happen to have had, say, three epidemics, and the other four ; and possibly, if two or three additional years had been added to the series, the place of the two towns would have been re- versed as regards their average death-rate from the disease in question. The proper plan is to give the death-rates from the epidemic disease for every year recorded, to draw a curve of these death-rates for the two towns on the same scale, and to compare the height, the variations of height, and the trend of the curve in each instance. Vita.lia.. See Diet [Animal Food, Beef Juices). Vitelline.—Relating to the vitellus or yolk sac; e.g. the vitelline circulation (the vessels of the umbilical vesicle or the omphalo- mesenteric arteries and veins), the vitelline duct (the stalk of the umbilical vesicle or yolk sac), the vitelline sac (the umbilical vesicle), etc. Vitellus.—The yolk of an egg; its chief constituent is the proteid vitellin. See Fcetus and Ovum, Development of {Graafian Follicle). ViterbO. See Balneology {Italy, Sulphur). Vitiligo.—A cutaneous disease character- ised by irregularly shaped patches from which the colour has disappeared surrounded by deeply pigmented areas. See Skin, Pigmentary Affec- tions op the {Leucodermia); Syphilis {Para- syphilis, Pigmentary, Syphilide). 32