TOXICOLOGY 76 closely resembling the effects of acute phos- phorus-poisoning. The fungus Helvetia esculenta acts much in the same way. Treatment of Fungi-Foisoning.—Empty the stomach by means of an emetic, and the bowels with castor oil, and then treat the symptoms. External warmth and stimulants will be re- quired, and morphine if the gastro-enteric symptoms are violent. If the symptoms par- take of the muscarine type, atropine in one- twentieth of a grain doses may be given subcutaneously. The post-mortem appearances vary in accord- ance with the action of the fungus ; indications of gastro-enteritis with erosions and submucous haemorrhages may be present, and the liver and other viscera may show fatty changes, which in the case of the liver may be very pronounced. If the symptoms during life were purely neurotic the post-mortem appearances will be indefinite. Ergotism, or chronic ergot-poisoning.—Ergot is the mycelium of a fungus—Claviceps pur- purea—which grows on various species of grain, especially on rye. It is mostly met with in Russia and Germany, where, after a rainy summer, widespread epidemics of ergotism often occur, which are due to the inhabitants eating- bread made from the diseased grain. The symptoms commence with disturbance of the digestive tract; nausea, occasional vomiting, a sense of oppression in the stomach, loss of energy, and either constipation or diarrhoea. Subsequently local symptoms manifest them- selves, either in the form of gangrene, or of spasmodic contraction of muscles, with other nervous disturbances; both these types may occur in the same patient. Gangrenous ergotism is initiated by patches of anaesthesia or by redness and burning of the skin, which is followed by gangrene, usually of the dry type, in the fingers and toes; this may spread as far as the elbows or knees, but the trunk is rarely affected. At the line of demar- cation the gangrenous part separates by slow ulceration, unless it is removed by surgical operation. Very exceptionally the skin alone is attacked. Spasmodic ergotism is preceded by various paraesthesiae, such as a creeping sensation, be- ginning in the fingers and toes, or there may be ansesthesia, followed by spastic contraction of the muscles, by which the fingers and toes are drawn together and, along with the hands, are flexed—presenting the appearance of the clenched fist with the thumb drawn in towards the palm; the feet are extended, the heel being so powerfully drawn up as to cause the leg and foot to form a straight line. The dorsal muscles may also be contracted so as to produce opistho- tonos. The spasms are excessively painful, and in the intervals the patient suffers from an un- bearable burning pain in the affected limbs. The spasms may be tetanic in character, and the diaphragm may participate, so that respii-a- tion is impeded; sometimes the contractions are clonic, resembling epilepsy. Spastic con- traction of the bladder, diplopia, deafness, aphasia, and changes in the visual field for colour, have been observed. The pulse is quick, and in the later stage is feeble. Psychical disorders, delirium, mania, stupor, and ataxic symptoms have been recorded; the knee-jerks are absent in these cases, and sclerosis of the posterior columns of the cord, implicating the root-zones, has been found. Both forms of ergotism are probably due to persistent con- traction of the smaller arteries, which deprives the tissues implicated of their blood-supply. The treatment consists in preventing further use of contaminated bread, and in dealing with the symptoms, medically and surgically. Lathyrism. — Several species of vetch — Lathyrus sativus, L. cicera (chick-pea), and L. Clymenum—may give rise to poisoning, cases of which have occurred in France, Spain, Africa, and India, through eating grain derived from one or other of the above-named species. The symptoms begin with pain and stiffness in the back, stiffness with an intolerable creeping sensation in the limbs, tremor of the hands, and spastic gait; occasionally the gait is ataxic. The knee-jerk is exaggerated. Disorders of sen- sation, hyperaesthesia and parsesthesia, followed by anaesthesia, may occur. Usually the legs only are affected ; the arms, if at all, participate but slightly. But little is known of the morbid anatomy of lathyrism; the symptoms point to degenerative changes in the lateral columns of the cord; but any changes that take place cannot be very profoimd, inasmuch as after the grain is no longer eaten the symptoms usually subside in time, the course of lathyrism being much less severe and prolonged than that of the antecedently described disease—ergotism, or of the disease next to be described—pellagra. Pellagra {pelle, skin, and agra, rough) is a disease produced by eating diseased maize, which in some countries is used as a substitute for corn. Pellagra is met with in France, Spain, Italy, Roumania, Austria, Corfu, Mexico, and Egypt. It occurs in the early part of the year and subsides in the autumn. [t is rare in children. General Symptoms. — Headache, depression, paraesthesiae, cramps, vertigo, and dyspepsia, with the tongue denuded of epithelium, may precede the characteristic manifestations of the disease. These comprise erythema, with an oedematous condition of the skin, and an intolerable burning and itching on those parts of the body which are exposed to the sun. The acute stage lasts about a fortnight, when it subsides, leaving a dry, thickened, scaly, pigmented, psoriasis-like skin. The hair and nails are not affected. There is usually a recurrence each spring. After repeated attacks (not until after the third