TUMOURS OF THE SKIN 174 the trunk, limbs, back, over the lower jaw, etc.; and are embedded more or less in the skin, and are movable with the latter. Paroxysmal spon- taneous pains may occur in them ; they may also be painful on pressure. They appear at various ages in adults. Malcolm Morris has shown instances of these growths occurring in father and daughter. Histologically the growths are made up of smooth muscle fibres, and no doubt originate from the arrectores pilorum. The van Gieson method of staining is a good one for sections. Excision is the only effectual treatment. Urticaria pigmentosa is sometimes nodular, as in the case depicted by Radcliffe-Crocker. {Urticaria pigmentosa will be dealt with under Urticaria.) Xanthoma palpebrarum is the name given to yellow plates of new growth which affect the eyelids. It usually begins about the internal canthus of the left upper eyelid, but it may start elsewhere—for instance, near the external canthus of the right lower eyelid. It then spreads, and later involves the other eyelids, in some cases forming more or less of a semicircle round the eyes. There can be no difficulty about the diagnosis. The plates are embedded in the skin, and are of the colour of chamois leather. The disease shows a family prevalence and may be heredi- tary. Xanthoma multiplex is more rarely seen. It affects, in addition to the eyelids, the flexures and mucous membranes, and in severe cases may be widely distributed, involving also the elbows and knees, palms and soles, and so forth. It is often associated in adults with chronic jaundice, malignant disease of the biliary appa- ratus, and so forth, but in youths there may be no derangement whatever of the general health, and nothing more than the yellow growths about the knees and elbows, which give no trouble. In the latter case it may occur in more than one member of a family. When the lesions, instead of being flat plates, are rounded, prominent, nodular, the disease goes by the name of xanthoma tuberosum, to distinguish it, clinically merely, from xanthoma planum. There are differences of opinion as to the pathology. Microscopically the growth consists essentially of masses of " xanthoma" cells in the corium. The yellow and brown granules are partly in the ordinary connective-tissue cells, partly in the epithelioid cells, partly free. Xanthoma elasticum (Balzer), or pseudo-xan- thoma elasticum (Darier). This is a rare con- dition, in which Balzer found that elastin formed the greater part of the tumour; but more recently Darier concluded it was not xanthoma, as he did not find " xanthoma " cells. The treatment of xanthoma consists in ex- cising the growths. Great care must be exer- cised in dealing with the eyelids so as not to produce a condition of ectropion or epiphora. But most patients will prefer to be left alone. CoLLOiD-MiLiUM of the skin was first described by Wagner. The growths, which vary from a pin-head to a split pea in size, are glistening, of a pale yellow tint, and embedded in the skin, especially about the cheeks, orbits, and forehead. A jelly-like mass can be got out of them when opened. It is extremely rare. BoTRYOMYCOSis. — Under this name softish tumours which occur singly about the hands have been described. The growths are pedicled, about the size of a Barcelona or hazel nut, and are some hue of red with exuding granulations on the surface. They are painless. A case of this kind came under my observa- tion when I was assistant to Sir Victor Horsley at University College Hospital in 1892. The patient was a woman of about fifty, with a pedicled growth the size of a Barcelona nut on the dorsum of the terminal phalanx of the left little finger, just behind the nail. It had begun as a pimple which had been cauterised several times ; its surface was blackish when I saw it. At that time I did not know what it was, but I removed it in the out-patient's department under an antesthetic, taking a circle of healthy skin round the base of the pedicle with it. It was dressed with sal alembroth gauze, and it did well. Since Poncet and Dor first described it in 1897, there has been some discussion as to its cause, but everything points to its being of staphylococcal origin, and in this the veterinary surgeons agree. Turn lilt US.—Irregular action or commo- tion, e.g. of the heart (T. cordis) or of the speech (T. sei-monis). Tunbridg^e Wells. See Balneology {Great Britain, Chalybeate) ; Mineral Waters {Chalybeate). Tunic or Tunica.—A coat or covering or enveloping membrane, such as the tunics of the eye, uterus, bladder, or blood-vessel, etc.; e.g. the tunica adventitia (of blood-vessels), tunica costalis {the pleura), tunica fibrosa (of a Graafian follicle), and the tunica vaginalis testis. Tunicata,. See Heart, Physiology op {Comparative Anatomy., Tunicata). Tuning' Fork. See Ear, Examination OF {Investigation of Hearing, Tuning-Fork Test). Tunnel-Anasmia. — Ankylostomiasis or Miner's aneemia, called tunnel-anasmia because of its frequency among the workers on the St. Gothard tunnel. See Parasites {Nematodes, TJncinaria duodenalis). Tunnel Disease. /SeeSpine, Surgical Affections of {Caisson Disease).