TRADES, DANGEROUS 95 loquacious, and excited. Frequently, too, it causes headache and giddiness. If the work has been conducted in rather a close room, the men and women become mildly intoxicated. Benzine vapour produces a heavy, sleepy feel- ing, which obliges the work-people to go out into the fresh air. Treatment.—Preventive by having the work- room well ventilated. In the case of fire the best way to extinguish the flames is by means of sand. Blankets ought also to be in readiness to throw around any worker whose clothing may have caught fire. When there are symptoms of intoxication the work-people should be taken into the fresh air. This is generally sufficient to restore them. Aniline and Dinitrobenzinb The discovery of the coal-tar products has revolutionised chemistry as applied to the arts and manufactures. Many of these bodies, e.g. the picric acid compounds, are used in the manufacture of the higher explosives, while others are used for dyeing purposes. Dearden has described the symptoms observed in work- men employed in the dyeing of fast aniline blacks. Dyeing by means of aniline black agents is indirectly brought about through the medium of an aniline salt or aniline oil. The salt em- ployed is obtained by acting upon aniline with hydrochloric acid in closed vessels. When not obtained in this manner a considerable amount of fume is given off', inhalation of which causes great prostration, dyspnoea, intermittency with rapid action of the heart, lividity of the face, blueness of the lips and finger nails. Symp- toms of a similar character have been observed by Prosser White in men employed in the manufacture of nitro-benzole. Since nitro- benzole is a frequent impurity in aniline oil, some of the symptoms just detailed may prob- ably be due to this substance. In dye-works the cloths that have been dipped in aniline liquor must be dried and mangled, and subse- quently the dye is oxidated and chromed. In the ageing- or chroming-room large quantities of sodium bichromate are used, and workmen who carelessly allow the edge of the cloth to run through their fingers often suffer from chrome ulcers on the hands. There is an idiosyncrasy to aniline-poisoning. Some persons are more susceptible to it than others. The symptoms of acute aniline poison- ing are nausea with prostration amounting at times to collapse; the features become livid and the extremities cold and blue; there is dyspnoea accompanied by a feeling of drowsi- ness ; the pulse becomes small, rapid, and inter- mittent, the pupils are dilated and the urine dark - coloured. Many of these symptoms can be prevented by better ventilation of the factory, but even in those that are best ventilated it is not uncommon for the workmen to complain of nausea and extreme lassitude, for the face to be livid, and the lips and nails cyanosed. Poisoning may be prevented by having the rooms in dye-works lofty, cool, and well venti- lated. Handling of the chromed goods should only be done by men wearing india-rubber gloves. Personal cleanliness is a necessity. The hands should be well washed before meals and no food eaten in the workrooms. Alterna- tion of employment is desirable. The men should not work long in any of the dangerous processes. In France several cases of fatal poisoning have occurred, especially in young people, in consequence of a particular kind of paste being used to blacken fawn-coloured boots. The symptoms were the same as those above men- tioned. On analysis the paste was found to contain as its principal ingredient aniline oil. What has been said of aniline will almost equally apply to the nitro- and dinitrobenzine compounds that are used in the manufacture of the higher explosives, roburite, etc. This subject has received literary attention at the hands of Drs. E. S. Reynolds and Prosser White. It has also been treated by Simeon Snell, who found failure of eyesight a common symptom due to concentric contraction of the visual field with central colour scotoma and occasionally blurring of the edges of the disc, appearances that as a rule subside on the men giving up their work. Dinitrobenzine is a powerful poison whether inhaled or swallowed, rubbed into the skin, or injected into the circulation. A little over one gramme, when taken by the mouth, will cause death in less than twenty-four hours. The concentrated vapour is particularly dangerous. Poisoning by dinitrobenzine may be acute, subacute, or chronic. Men who breathe the vapour during work often become sleepy and complain of severe headache; the heart's beat becomes irregular, and the men experience a difficulty of breathing ; their face is observed to be cyanosed, and the urine they pass exhibits a reddish brown colour free from albumin and sugar, but which on spectroscopic examination gives the spectrum of methgemoglobin with some other pigment not yet definitely named. In acute poisoning death is preceded by coma. At the autopsy the brain is found to be congested, the blood dark and thick, the chambers of the heart are dilated, and the lungs either dark or very pale. There is often exhaled from the body a strong odour not unlike that of bitter almonds. A similar odour is detected in prussic-acid poison- ing, but the symptoms caused by prussic acid are more sudden in their development than those of dinitrobenzine-poisoning. In the chronic cases the skin becomes dirty yellow ; the men complain of feeling languid and of being sleepy, and their gait is often ataxic. Occasionally the skin is at places anses- thetic or hypersesthetic, and the urine is of a