URETHRA, DISEASES OF 253 posterior part usually remains open even after several subsequent operations. Inflammation.—Inflammation of the urethra, like inflammation elsewhere, is due to a variety of causes, some mechanical, but the majority due to the action of micro-organisms. The mechani- cal causes leading to urethral inflammation, both in the male and female, are injury pro- duced by foreign bodies passed along the urethra from without, or by calculi, whole or in frag- ments, passing from within. Irritating urine may produce urethritis, either because it con- tains crystals as in oxaluria, or because it holds in solution such drugs as cantharides, turpentine, or squills. Urethritis, too, may be a trouble- some symptom in gout, I'heumatism, and herpes. The introduction of dirty sounds, catheters, and other surgical instruments is a fertile source of a urethral inflammation, which may become purulent, and may be attended with serious and even fatal results in an unhealthy person. Re- ference has already been made to urethral in- flammations produced by syphilis (vol. ix. p. 461), and by soft sores (Art. " Venereal Dis- ease," vol. X. p. 427). The symptoms in these cases of urethritis consist in a smarting pain, when urine is passed, and the appearance of a discharge which is either serous or purulent. The treatment consists in removing the cause, and rendering the urine as little irritating as possible. The patient may be ordered lactate of soda, 10 grains of urotropin, dissolved in half a pint of water, the dose to be repeated three times a day; or he may be given a mixture containing potassium nitrate, 10 grains ; bicarbonate of potash, 20 grains ; tincture of henbane, 30 minims; and chloroform water to an ounce. Simple and unirritating urethral injections will also afford relief, e.g. a teaspoon- ful of Condy's fluid in a pint of hot water, or 10 grains of subnitrate of bismuth in an ounce of water at 100° F. GoNORRHosA.—A clap is the commonest form of venereal disease affecting the male urethra. It is an infective inflammation of the urethral mucous membrane, due to the inoculation of the micrococcus gonorrhoese, or gonococcus, first described by Neisser in 1879. The primary in- fection in both sexes occurs commonly at some part of the urethra; in the male at the lacuna magna, rapidly spreading to the bulbous portion, or to the prostatic part of the urethra; in the female the anterior part of the urethra, the periurethral glands, the glands of Skene and of Bartholin are chiefly affected at an early period, whilst the cervical canal of the uterus is a usual seat of inoculation, the vagina only becoming aff"ected by the extension of the suppurative inflammation. Pathology.—Gonococci, like the poison of syphilis (vol. ix. p. 460), can only be inoculated upon the human subject, for no experiments hitherto have succeeded in tiansmitting either gonorrhoea or syphilis to animals. The gono- cocci are minute organisms shaped like coffee- beans, which can only be studied vmder the highest powers of the microscope (one-twelfth immersion lens and upwards). They are gener- ally arranged in pairs with the flattened or con- cave surfaces adjacent to each other, but they multiply rapidly by fission, so that tetrads and multiples of four are frequent in the colonies. The organisms are always pyogenic as they occur in the urethra, though it is clear that they are not necessarily associated with the formation of pus, because when they attack the tissues secondarily, as in gonorrhoeal synovitis, suppuration is often absent. The gonococci gain access to the tissues through abrasions of the superficial epithelial cells, and are passed along the superficial intra-epithelial lymphatic plexuses until they reach a leucocyte. The white corpuscles seem to have a special affinity for them, and the gonococci multiply much more readily in their substance than in the protoplasm of the epithelial cells. The micro- organisms do not penetrate at first beyond the layer of unstriated muscle which bounds the urethral mucous membrane, but the irritation which they cause produces a serous exudation in the surrounding connective tissue and a loosening and detachment of the neighbouring epithelial cells. Pyogenic organisms then add their destructive agency to that of the gonococci, and the connective tissue becomes infiltrated with pus whilst the capillaries may be thrombosed. The diagnosis of gonococci must be under- taken with due caution, for Mr. Foulerton has shown that eighteen different species of micro- cocci have been isolated from the healthy or diseased urethra in the male in addition to the ordinary pyogenic cocci, and a mistake in diag- nosis may lead to irreparable disaster. The three characteristics by which gonococci are known are :—(1) The occurrence in the pus cells from the urethral discharge of paired organisms shaped like coffee-beans; at least four pairs should be recognised in each cell. (2) The typical cocci should be readily decolor- ised when treated by Gram's method. (3) Pure growths cannot be subcultured on gelatin at 20° C, or on agar either at 20° C. or at 36° C, since the other micrococci from the urethra are said to grow at these temperatures and on these media. Preparation and Staining of Film.—Take two clean square cover slips and place a minute drop of the secretion to be examined upon one slip. Place the other cover slip accurately upon it, and then slide the two apart to obtain a couple of " smear preparations." Place the cover-glasses edgeways until they are dry, and then put them for fifteen minutes into a mixture of equal parts of absolute alcohol and ether to coagulate the albumin and allow the film to be