WRIST-JOINT DISEASES 556 with a weak antiseptic, while the limb is placed in a splint with the wrist dorsiflexed. In a severe case little movement may be ultimately expected. Infection of the joint from ivounds, operation or accidental, is followed by similar symptoms, and demands the same treatment. GONORRHCEAL ARTHRITIS {see JoiNTS). This disease does not occur so frequently in the wrist as in the knee or ankle, but the possibility of its occiirrence should be borne in mind lest it be mistaken for rheumatic arthritis, acute or chronic. Since it very seldom in any joint results in suppuration, it should be considered apart from pyogenic affections. Since some stiffness may result, it is most important that the hand should be dorsiflexed in the splint already described. Chronic "Employment" Arthritis.—Made- lung has described this condition, which, though not rare, is at the same time apt to be over- looked, at least in its earlier stages, when treat- ment is of more avail than later. It is a form of chronic inflammation met with mostly in young people, and especially in those whose wrists are subjected to violent or excessive movements—washerwomen, workers in certain trades, boxers, tennis and cricket players. Sometimes it occurs as a change at the radio- ulnar joint, where the ulna, apparently from relaxation of ligaments, projects prominently backwards, and the carpus is displaced forwards. In others the firmness of the radio-carpal joint does not seem to be impaired, but there is a disturbance of growth. The articular surface of the radius is altered so that, apparently in consequence of violent movements mostly in the direction of flexion, growth is arrested on the palmar aspect, and the dorsal edge over- hangs ; the carpal surface of the radius becomes oblique, and the carpus is subluxated forwards and cannot be replaced in its normal position. Slight pain, at first complained of, afterwards ceases, some disability alone remaining. Treat- ment.—The excessive movement must not be given up, and a leather " bracelet" should be worn for months. Arthritis Deformans {see Joints). — The wrist is not infrequently the seat of this disease, which bears an importance to the surgeon on account of the similarity between some of its features and those of tuberculosis. In both there is a chronic disease with pain, swelling, and stiffness of the joints. Hence it is well to remember in this connection two features highly characteristic of tubercular disease of the wrist. They are marked atrophy of the forearm and early lateral mobility of the joint. Charcot's Disease {see Joints.)—The wrist is but rarely affected with this disease. As it sometimes appears in locomotor ataxy before the tabetic symptoms, there is need for care to avoid an error in diagnosis. Were it to be a case of the mild type, or were the disease. beginning with milder symptoms, to pass into the severe form with swelling, grating of the bones, and marked lateral mobility, the disease —especially with this last symptom—might be mistaken for tuberculosis were it not for one symptom. The remarkable absence of pain and tenderness, so extraordinary a feature of Charcot's disease, ought to make a mistake impossible. Tubercular Teno-Synovitis {titbercular tendo- vaginitis, " compound ganglion ").—This is a local tuberculosis which affects the synovial sheaths of the tendons both on the flexor and extensor surfaces of the wrist. Though un- doubtedly infrequent in comparison with joint tuberculosis, tubercular tendo-vaginitis cannot be called rare in this region. Symptoms.—The first symptom to be noticed is usually a swelling on the back or front of the wrist. It is a more sharply defined one than the swelling occurring in tuberculosis of the joint, is often oblong with rounded ends, running parallel with the tendons. Sometimes the swelling is fairly round, but it often consists of "compartments," lateral offshoots spreading from the central mass; hence the name " com- pound ganglion." If it occur on the front of the wrist it may be "hour-glass" in shape, the annular ligament causing a constriction between a mass in the palm and one over the upper part of the wrist. The swelling may be movable transversely with the tendons, but not longi- tudinally. According as it is of the fungus or hydrops variety, it will feel semi-elastic or fluc- tuating, and in the latter case especially the presence of " rice-bodies " may impart a charac- teristic sensation as they are pressed from one part to another of the swelling. Pain is by no means a marked symptom ; in fact, it is often absent for a long time after the swelling has attained a large size. Movement of the fingers similarly may for long be quite free, though as the disease progresses it may destroy the tendons and impair the use of the fingers. Eventually the wrist joint may be invaded, or abscesses may form and open spontaneously with dis- astrous results from the consequent sepsis. Pathological Anatomy.—Two forms of this disease are usually described :—(a) The tendon sheaths are distended with synovial fluid, their walls are not greatly thickened with granula- tions, but they are frequently hung with numerous hard white masses, the corpora oryzoidea, or "rice-bodies" ("melon seeds"). These vary in size up to that of a pea, are flattened and ovoid ; some hang loosely packed from the wall of the sheath, while others float free in the fluid. Though tubercle bacilli are rarely found in them, they produce tuberculosis in anim.als inoculated with them, {h) In the second variety the swelling is due mainly to massive fungous granulations which enormously increase the thickness of the sheaths, there is