125 TUBERCULOSIS alkaloidal substances, (3) extractives, mucin, inorganic salts, etc. He prepared two modifica- tions of tuberculin, one of which, containing most of the albumoses, produced less fever than the other. Whether the albumoses found are the toxic bodies in tuberculin is doubtful. They may simply, according to Kiihne, be carriers of the real toxine. This view he corroborated by growing the bacilli in a proteid-free medium, and found that an albuminate produced had the same effect on animals as tuberculin. Curative.—The opinion gained ground that the substance in tuberculin which causes the reaction resides in the fluid, whereas the sup- posed minimising and curative agent seems to reside in the bodies of the bacilli themselves. Koch's further researches were directed towards separating these, and attempting to employ the immunising substance in strengthening the tissues to resist the disease. These intracellular toxines seem to be very intimately bound up with the protoplasm, and to separate them he used the following procedures :—Young virulent cultures were dried in vacuo, and thoroughly rubbed up in an agate mortar, treated with sterilised distilled water, and centrifugalised for a long time. The clear fluid resulting was de- canted, and formed Koch's " Tuberculin 0." This was found to produce a reaction like the original tuberculin. The deposit remaining was again dried and treated in a similar way, and the clear fluid decanted, the process being repeated until no deposit remained. All the fluids were then put together and formed Koch's "Tuberculin R" (T.R.) He stated that this contains only the sub- stances present in the bacilli which are insoluble in glycerine. When this is injected into animals in small, repeated, and gradually increasing doses, he claims that it produces immunity against the original tuberculin, against Tuber- culin 0, and against living and virulent bacilli. He and others have applied it in man, and though they claim to have obtained success in treat- ment of tuberculosis in man, a great deal of healthy scepticism prevails, particularly in this country. Siill the hope is gaining ground that in this direction a cure for tuberculosis may yet be obtained. Working on similar lines, Klebs has intro- duced two extracts — tuberculocidin and anti- phthisin. The former is made from tuberculin by removing so far as possible the substances which cause reaction. "The latter is made from the fluid culture without the use of boiling heat to concentrate. This procedure, it is thought, preserves the immunising agent. Von Ruck has also introduced two prepara- tions. The first, tuherculinum purificatum, is made from the culture fluid with the bacilli, by ex- traction in vacuo at 120°-130"' F. for six weeks to two months, the object being to extract more of the bacterial proteids, and so to contain more of the immunising principles Koch found in Tuberculin R. The second is a watery extract made at 120°-130° F. of dry tubercle bacilli freed from fat by action of sulphuric ether. Denison gives lengthy statistics which would go to prove that in therapeutic action these excel all other pre- parations. Tuberculin as a Diagnostic Agent in Man.—- Koch in 1890 expressed himself as follows:— " I believe I do not go too far when 1 assume that the medicament will in future be an indis- pensable aid to diagnosis. It will enable one to diagnose doubtful cases of incipient phthisis even when one fails to obtain certain knowledge of the nature of the disease by finding bacilli or elastic fibres in the sputum, or by physical examination." At the London Congress on Tuberculosis, 1901, he detailed his method of using tuberculin and his results so far. After ascertaining that the temperature is not above normal for one, or better, two days, he gives an injection of one-tenth to one milli- gram under the skin of the back in the forenoon, the amount given depending on the strength of the patient. If no reaction takes place double the dose is given on the third day, i.e. one full day intervening. If there is a slight rise of temperature—only a quarter of a degree centi- grade, for example—the dose is not increased, but repeated as soon as the temperature has gone down to normal. It often happens that, though the same dose has been given, the second reaction is stronger than the first. This is quite specially characteristic, and may be re- garded as an infallible sign of the presence of tuberculosis. If the first small doses produce no reaction, he gives five, and, finally, even ten milligrams. He is accustomed to give this last quantity twice, and only when no reaction occurs under these conditions does he feel justified in assum- ing that the case is not one of fresh or progres- sive tuberculosis demanding specific treatment. By the end of 1900 he had personally observed 3000 cases. He expressly stated that he had in no case seen any untoward effect when the tuberculin was used in this way. His paper was followed by a lively discussion. In general the use of tuberculin as a diagnostic agent was supported by all the continental and American members of congress. While some British physicians, e.g. M'Call Anderson and Eric France, spoke strongly in favour of it, others, notably Dr. C. Theodore Williams, con- demned it. He thought that in initial cases without fever its employment is not advantage- ous, and considered it unreasonable, after all our efforts to build up the tissue and textures of the human body, to use a means for breaking