339 UTERUS, DISPLACEMENTS OF THE deepened by means of a scalpel, especially in the uterine wall next to the cervical canal, and a small angle is cut out on either side, as shown by the dotted line in Fig. 382. The cut sur- face on each side is now folded on itself by a single silkworm gut suture, as shown in Fig. 382. This suture is tied and fortified by inter- rupted sutures on either side. The lines of union thus made are shown in Fig. 383. These sutures are not introduced in such a manner as to stitch the intra-cervical to the vaginal margin of the wound, but the cut surface is folded upon itself in a direction at right angles to this. On either side, that point at the margin of the os externum where the backward incision commenced is stitched to the very angle of the incision, so that each cut surface is folded upon itself, not from within outward, but from before backward. Thereby the os externum is carried directly back to the angle of the incision. The cervix now points back- ward in its normal direction toward the hollow of the sacrum, instead of forward toward the vaginal outlet. . . . Conjoined examination upon completion of the operation in each of the author's cases has invariably shown the uterus either to have been straightened, or the ante- flexion to have been reduced to a degree quite within physiological limits. The results have been substantially the same whether the point of flexure was at the os internum or below it. The two posterior lines of sutures have the eff"ect of transplanting the os externum to the very angle of the posterior incision. The an- terior sutures, if used, have the effect of carry- ing the cervix back by a distance equal to one- half the length of the anterior cut surface, which is doubled upon itself. By these means a permanent change, quite equal to overcoming the flexure, is effected in the direction of the cervix. As the result of the anterior portion of the operation, the uterus in a suitable case is lifted also to a higher plane in the pelvis, where it ceases to be a mechanical irritant to the bladder. This portion of the operation may therefore be indicated for descent when complicated with anteflexion " (Dudley, Diseases of Women, p. 581, etc.). From a large experience of this operation we are well satisfied with the results. As a rule, patients are cured of the dysmenorrhoea for a considerable length of time, and very frequently pregnancy occurs after the operation. The introduction of a glass stem pessary half an inch in diameter after the posterior lip of the cervix has been divided and the internal os widely stretched is a method favoured by some operators. The stem pessary is kept in position by packing the upper part of the vagina with iodoform gauze, and may be kept in the uterus five or six days. After the instrument is re- moved the cavity of the uterus should be irri- gated with an antiseptic solution. The results of this method are not likely to be so lasting as after Dudley's operation. Treatment short of operative measures con- sists in giving remedies with a view to the alleviation of symptoms. Counter-irritation in the form of small fly-blisters applied over the seat of pain whenever it commences is one of the most eff"ective remedies for dysmenorrhoea. The promotion of diaphoresis at the outset is helpful. No anodyne, with the exception of morphia, is likely to remove the pain, and morphia cannot be too strictly forbidden, as the symptoms of anteflexion lend themselves to the acquirement of the morphia habit. 9. Ketroversion and Retroflexion.—These retro-deviations ai-e of frequent occurrence. In some instances they give rise to no appreciable symptoms, in others the symptoms they cause are very persistent and troublesome. Retroversion occurs when the uterus rotates round an imaginary transverse axis—the fundus backwards, the cervix forwards. This displace- ment occurs physiologically whenever the bladder is fully distended, but this is a temporary dis- placement. Whenever it becomes permanent it is pathological. It occurs as a congenital condition associated with a shortening of the anterior vaginal wall. It is also the position the uterus assumes in senile involution. When a retroverted uterus is abnormally rigid, as when stiffened by metritis, it remains extended, but when it is not rigid intra-abdominal pressure directed against its anterior surface causes it to bend at the isthmus, and the body is bent over on the posterior surface, thus producing retro- flexion. Etiology.—The commonest factor in the pro- duction of retro-disjilacements is a relaxed condi- tion of the utero-sacral ligaments. This relaxa- tion may be produced by habitual over-disten- sion of the rectum in a debilitated subject, but the most frequent cause of the condition is the puerperal state. In the puerperium the uterus is large, soft, and heavy, and all its ligaments are lax. While in this state an over-distended bladder may easily push the uterus into retro- version, more especially if it is aided by the intra-abdominal pressure which would accompany any muscular effort on the part of the mother, such as lifting the child. The return of the uterus into anteversion, which should follow the emptying of the bladder, does not take place owing to the toneless condition of the round and utero-sacral ligaments. The consequence is that the latter are stretched and lengthened, and intra-abdominal pressure now acting on the anterior surface of the uterus, the latter remains permanently in retroversion (Fig. 6). The displacement may be produced in the non-puerperal state in a somewhat similar manner when there is an increase of intra- abdominal pressure, as in vomiting, lifting heavy weights, or overreaching. This can only occur