VULVA, DISEASES OF THE 505 IV. Cutaneous Diseases of the Vulva 507 Erythema 507 Eczema 507 Herpes ...... 507 Lichen ...... 507 Tuberculosis ..... .507 Syphilis . . . . .. . 507 Condylomata ..... 507 Elephantiasis ..... 507 Vulvitis Pruriginosa . . .507 Kraurosis VuIvcb . . . .508 Pruritus Vulvae .... 508 V. Cysts and Tumours of the Vulva 508 (a) Cysts— Mucous and Sebaceous Cysts . 508 Bartholinian Cyst or Abscess . 508 Hydrocele of the Canal of Nuck . 509 Hernia ..... .509 (i) Tumours — Lipoma ..... 509 Fibroma ..... 509 Myxoma, . . . . . .509 Angeioma ..... 509 Papilloma ..... 509 Sarcoma ..... 509 Carcinoma • . . . . 509 VI. Morbid Conditions of the Clitoris AND Hymen .... 509 See also Generation, Female Organs of (External Generative Organs); Generation, Female Organs, Arrested Development of (Malformations of Vulva); Gonorrhceal Infec- tion ; Hermaphroditism ; Labour, Stages and Duration (Second Stage, Phenomena); Labour Injuries to the Generative Organs (Injuries or Perineum, Laceration of Vulva, Vulvar Hcema- toma); Pruritus (Clinical Varieties); Pudenda, Ulcerating Granuloma of Puerperium, Path- ology OF (Vidvitis); Syphilis (Primary and Secondary); Tabes Dorsalis (Symptomatology, Genital Organs); Uterus, Malformations of (Under-Development of Vulva). I. Injuries op the Vulva.—These occur in three ways: by accident, during sexual inter- course, and during parturition. Accidental injuries are rare, but may result from a kick, a fall with the legs apart upon such a thing as the back of a chair, or the breaking of a chamber utensil when the patient is sitting upon it. Inasmuch as the vulva is very vascular, hsemorrhage may be very free. Such injuries require to be dealt with on ordin- ary surgical principles, according to the nature of the case. Injury during coitus consists mainly in unusual tearing of the hymen. Bleeding from a tear of the hymen itself is always inconsiderable ; but if the tear extend beyond the base of attachment of the hymen into the substance of the lateral wall of the vagina, bleeding may be free, and even alarming. Treatment will consist in securing any bleeding vessel and sewing up the tear. Injury during parturition nearly always con- sists of a rupture of the perineum; occasion- ally there may be tearing of the lateral walls of the vagina, extending into the vulva, but then the cause is usually to be found in careless instrumeiital delivery. Rupture of the perineum is due to dispro- portionate size or hardness of the foetal head ; precipitate labour; unskilful use of instru- ments ; or morbid conditions of the perineum, such as undue rigidity or undue softness and friability, such as may result from long-con- tinued pressure of the head. The tear may be partial, involving little more than the lower part of the vagina and the fourchette; or complete, extending through the anal sphincter and up the anterior rectal wall; or it may be of any degree between these extremes. In very rare cases a central rupture has occurred, the anterior part of the perineum remaining in- tact, while a perforation takes place from the vagina to some place between the fourchette and the anus. The result of ruptured perineum is, in the first place, a tendency to prolapse of the vaginal walls; and when the tear involves the rectum there is more or less loss of control over the bowel contents. Treatment.—When a perineum is torn during labour it should be sewn up at once. With due precautions as to cleanliness, union is usually rapid, especially when the tear is due to too rapid delivery. But when it follows a protracted second stage the bruising of the tissues may lead to a failure of union. It is always important that the tear should be re- paired on its vaginal as well as on its perineal aspect. If union fails, a secondary perineor- rhaphy is required, for a description of which a text-book of gynsecology should be consulted. II. Inflammation of the Vulva.—Vulvitis may be simple, infective, or of the nature of a dermato-neuritis. Simple vidvitis may be due to want of cleanli- ness, irritating discharges from the uterus, or excessive intercourse. In children it is said to result from thread-worms. It may also be a part of a trauma of the vulva. The symptoms are heat, pain, and throbbing in the vulva, aggravated by exercise. The vulva is congested, red, and swollen. If due to injury, bruising may be seen. The treatment consists of rest, thorough cleanliness, and fomentations. Inter- course must, of course, bo avoided. Infective vulvitis is nearly always gonorrhceal, and it then forms part of a more general in- fection affecting the genital tract. The symp- toms are as above, with the addition of two important features, namely, a muco-purulent yellow discharge, and scalding pain on micturi- tion. On physical examination the vulva is red, swollen, and bathed in a yellow discharge, the urethral orifice is nearly always reddened,