YELLOW FEVER 589 skin, scanty albuminous urine, increased gastric irritability, hsematemesis (black vomit), and other hEemorrhages. Pathologically, yellow fever gives rise to extensive fatty degeneration most mai'ked in the liver and kidneys. Virus of Yellow Fever.—It is needless to mention the various organisms that have from time to time been announced as the cause of yellow fever. Their claims have been finally disposed of mainly through the laborious re- searches of Sternberg. The Bacillus icteroides discovered by Sanarelli in 1897 appeared to answer more or less fully the requirements which determine pathogenicity, and was accepted by some of the best authorities as the cause of the disease. The American Commission ap- pointed to investigate the nature of yellow fever, consisting of Wasdin and Geddings, as the result of a long series of observations and experiments, reported in 1899, "that the micro- organism discovered by Guiseppe Sanarelli, and named by him Bacillus icteroides, is the cause of yellow fever." They base this conclusion on the following grounds : 1. They succeeded in isolating the bacillus from the blood in 13 out of 14 cases of undoubted yellow fever, and in 85-7 per cent of their necropsies. They thus assume that the organism is present in all cases of the disease. 2. They failed to find it in the blood of those suffering from, or in the bodies of those that had died of, other maladies. It is not therefore, they urge, a microbe of secondary infection. 3. They instituted numerous experi- ments on animals with the bacillus in pure culture, and found it to produce a fever running somewhat the same course, accompanied by many of the symptoms, and, in fatal cases, presenting lesions analogous to those of yellow fever. A more critical examination of the facts has raised doubts as to the pathogenicity of this organism. It has not been proved that the bacillus is present in every case of yellow fever. Some competent observers have failed to detect it in a considerable proportion of cases. Sanarelli himself was able to isolate it in 58 per cent only of his necropsies. Nor has it been satis- factorily established that it is peculiar to yellow fever. Other organisms, again, are capable of producing symptoms and lesions somewhat similar to those caused by the Bacillus icteroides. Nothing is really known of the effects of living cultures on man. Those engaged in culture experiments on the bacilli of plague and cholera have accidentally contracted these diseases. Nothing of the kind has happened to those experimenting with this bacillus, even when it has been diffused through the air of the labora- tory. The serum of animals rendered immune by injections of the Bacillus icteroides has not, so far as it has been tested, proved prophylactic or curative in yellow fever. Finally, the serum of yellow fever fails in many cases to agglutin- ate the Bacillus icteroides. It may thus be safely affirmed that its causal relation to yellow fever has not been established. Nothing need here be said of the bacillus discovered by Durham and Myers in 1900, as no evidence of its pathogenicity has hitherto been adduced. The Role of the Mosquito in the Transinission of Yellow Fever.—It will be convenient to notice here the evidence bearing on the communica- bility of yellow fever by infected mosquitoes and by the blood of those suffering from the disease. Finlay of Havana has maintained for nearly twenty years that yellow fever is propa- gated by the mosquito, and has based a system of prophylaxis on this hypothesis. Mosquitoes fed on a yellow fever patient are applied to a healthy subject, after an interval of two to five days, who by this means is believed to acquire a mild but protective form of the disease. Finlay's statements were never taken seriously by the profession. As to the main point—the communicability of the infection by the Culex fasciatus (Fabr.), or more correctly the Stegomya fasciata—recent observations confirm his con- tention, although they go, at the same time, to show that the mosquito is incapable of communi- cating the infection or of conferring immunity so soon after contamination as his theory pos- tulates. This point, like many others, requires more careful investigation. The experiments of Reed, Carroll, Agramonte, and others render it practically certain that the infected mosquito is capable of communicating yellow fever. A special sanitary station was fitted up in an isolated, well-drained, and airy spot near to Quemados in Cuba, and every precaution was taken to prevent contamination from without. The results, briefly stated, were, that of ten non-immunes bitten by mosquitoes fed on the blood of yellow fever patients not less than twelve days previously, eight con- tracted the disease — the incubation period varying from forty-one hours to five days seven- teen hours. Other experiments—of which, how- ever, we have not the details—have since been conducted, and entirely confirm the earlier observations. In most instances the disease thus communicated has been of a mild type, but recently three fatal cases of experimental yellow fever have been reported, and it has been found necessary to impose restrictions on these experiments. The fact that the experiments have been con- ducted in a yellow fever country detracts some- what from their demonstrative value. But it is to be remarked that the subjects were placed in quarantine for a period of from nine to twenty- one days before being bitten, and it is specially significant that only those in the station bitten by infected mosquitoes took yellow fever, and that it appeared in them within the usual period of incubation. It would, nevertheless, be de-