UTERUS, NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE 356 nature or condition. The chief varieties of uterine polypi are— 1. The fibroid. 2. The adenomatous (so-called mucous). 3. The malignant — sarcomatous, carcino- matous. 4. The placental and fibrinous. 5. The papillomatous. 6. The tuberculous. 1. Fibroid jMlypi are submucous fibroids in process of extrusion. They appear to originate as interstitial fibroids. They grow in the direc- tion of least resistance, and are also pressed towards the cavity of the uterus by the contrac- tions of its musculatvire. Thus they become submucous, and, if the circumstances for their extrusion are favourable, they become increas- ingly prominent in the iiterine cavity. They then approximate to the condition of a foreign body, and are gripped with increasing power by the uterine walls. Gradually they are extruded from their muscular surroundings, and their investment of mucous membrane is stretched and thinned at the base so as to form part of the pedicle. The mass is pressed against the internal os and gradually dilates it in the same manner as does an ovum. This resistance over- come, the same process is applied to the cervical canal imtil the polypus is forced through into the vagina. The main factors are the contrac- tions of the musculature, the stretching of the mucous membrane (which sometimes gives way so that the fibroid is more or less denuded in its descent), the opening of the cervix, partly due to " polarity " and partly to softening from increased supply of blood and mucoid discharge. The whole process is analogous to that of par- turition, although the parallelism of details must not be pressed. One feature of the process is that a polypus may be extruded during the increased action and softening peculiar to menstruation, and withdrawn into the cavity of the uterus during the intermen- strual period (intermittent polypus). The possibility of extrusion through the vulva de- pends on the length of the stalk, or on the dragging down of the uterus in the process of extrusion. The histology mid pathology of uterine fibroid polypi is identical with that of fibroids in general, but they are usually of the " hard " variety. The mucous membrane covering a polypus usually retains the columnar ciliated type and its glandular arrangement while the polypus is intra-uterine. It becomes stratified and squamous after the extrusion of the growth, except in recesses and crannies which are not exposed to pressure from the vaginal walls. They are nourished by their envelope of mucous membrane, which, as it is stretched and thinned, becomes progressively less vascular. Large blood-vessels are seldom found in the pedicle. To this comparative deprivation of blood-supply is due the increased tendency to sloughing and gangrene observed in submucous and polypoid fibroids. Hence if delayed in the canal of the cervix, or at the os uteri, the part of the tumour beyond the constriction is de- prived of nourishment and exposed to the invasion of micro-organisms; it is therefore in the most favourable condition for degeneration. In size, fibroid polypi vary from that of a walnut, or even less, to that of the uterus at full time; in one case such an extruded tumour was mistaken by an Indian midwife for a monstrous birth. The extrusion through the pelvis occupied a week, and as it was completed the patient died. The tumour was the size and shape of a uterus at term. Usually fibroid polypi lie free in the vagina, or in the circle of the os uteri; exceptionally, adhesions form, making it difficult to diagnose these polypi from other morbid conditions, such as inversion and prolapse of the uterus and malignant growths. Symptoms of Fibroid Polypi.—The most im- portant are hsemorrhage and pain. The haemor- rhage, which is menorrhagic so long as the polypus is intra-uterine, becomes metrorrhagic after its extrusion into the vagina. The pain is caused chiefly, like the pain in labour, by the contractions of the body of the uterus, partly by the dilatation of the cervix and the os uteri, and by the pressure exerted on them by the protruding mass. The polypus itself is some- what sensitive so long as it retains its envelope of mucous membrane. Pressure symptoms are rare. Deterioration of the general health follows from the frequently abundant and long-con- tinued hsemorrhages, which cause profound anaemia, with its symptoms and dangers. A sloughing or suppurating polypus will give rise to the usual septic symptoms, and in cases of " enormous" polypi, like the one described above, death from exhaustion may occur. The congestion and irritation caused by polypi are evidenced by leucorrhoeal discharge, which is sometimes watery and profuse. It may become offensive from retention in the vagina and in cases where the growth is degenerate. Women with large polypoid myomata are usually, but not always, sterile. If pregnancy occur, the polypus may cause abortion, or possibly obstruction during pai'turition unless previously diagnosed and removed. 2. Mucous polypi usually grow from the mucous membrane of the cervical canal and protrude through the os uteri. More rarely they are found on the vaginal surface of the cervix. They consist of hypertrophied mucous membrane, including some connective and mus- cular tissue. They usually retain the columnar ciliated epithelium of the endometrium with its glandular arrangement, but sometimes the epi- theliiun shows a stratified structure. When