143 TUBERCULOSIS only guinea-pigs and rabbits in testing the virulence of the tubercle bacillus does not always give entirely satisfactory results. It has occurred to others, for example, Adami and Higgins, that the virulence of a given culture of human bacilli might be increased by successive passages through cattle. Ravenel and Leonard Pearson proved this. At first, two calves were inoculated at intervals of a week. One lived for 106 days, and in the case of the other life was more prolonged. From caseous bronchial glands in one of them another calf was inoculated, which lived forty-eight days. The experiment was repeated with material from this calf, and the inoculated animal died in twenty-three days. Two other calves in succession were employed, the result demon- strating that a great increase in virulence had been attained. 2. As we have already remarked, however, these experiments do not reproduce the factors met with in natural infection. It is recognised that the chief danger is from a mixed infection. For example, in respiratory tuberculosis in man infection takes place from virulent sputum, either dried and conveyed about in dust, accord- ing to Cornet, or in a fine spray, projected during speaking, coughing, or sneezing, accord- ing to Fliigge. If, then, we can induce tuberculosis by a mixed infection, carrying out experiments either with sputum or with material from the lungs of tuberculous subjects, we would reproduce more closely, though still not quite satisfactorily (seeing that the animals used are healthy), natural conditions. Chauveau (Gongt. Tuherc, Paris, 1891) with such material produced tuberculosis in a heifer six months old ; in another eleven months old ; and in a young bull about ten months old. In these animals the material was given in the food. He also was successful in infecting a calf by intravenous injection. On subcutaneous inoculation, in every case a typically tuberculous tumour developed at the seat of inoculation, no general infection, however, following. This does not accord with the statement of Koch, who referred to these experiments of Chauveau among others as proving that animals which were fed with human tuberculous material never developed tuberculosis. Ravenel (^Lancet, Aug. 1901) inoculated four calves of nearly the same age, intraperitoneally, with a uniform quantity of tuberculous sputum from different sources, but all containing numerous bacilli. One calf was unaffected. Of the remaining three, in which infection had taken place, two showed very extensive lesions of the nature of " grapes " or " Perlsucht." In the case of pigs, he found that five out of six irioculated with human material died after a considerable time. From these pigs he in- oculated others, producing a rapidly fatal diffuse tuberculous pneumonia, the virulence of the organism having apparently been raised by passage through the former animals. To compare with these results he inoculated other animals under similar conditions with an equivalent dose of bovine tuberculous material, and found that this was much more virulent for all animals. Bollinger (ifwrtcA. med. Wochensch.,Jsin. 1894) records an experiment performed long before. He inoculated a healthy calf—three months old —intraperitoneally with tuberculous fluid from a human being. Seven months later character- istic "Perlsucht" of the peritoneum was found. Delepine, by inoculating a mixture of tuber- culous sputa into calves, has succeeded in caus- ing tuberculosis. Klebs, Kitt, and Crookshank have all succeeded in producing tuberculosis in calves by intraperitoneal injection of human tuber- culous material. Sidney Martin fed six calves with tuberculous sputum. Four of these showed lesions of the disease when killed, two remained healthy. All these experiments, then, show that Koch's first statement, that human tuberculosis cannot be transmitted to cattle, is " erroneous and un- tenable " (Ravenel). B. The second and more important question is whether bovine tuberculosis is transmissible to man. Koch states absolutely that this transmission does not occur, or but rarely. "Though the important question whether man is susceptible to bovine tuberculosis at all is not absolutely decided, and will not admit of absolute decision to-day or to-morrow, one is, nevertheless, already at liberty to say that, if such a susceptibility really exists, the infection of human beings is but a very rare occurrence. I should estimate the extent of infection by the milk and flesh of tubercular cattle, and the butter made of their milk, as hardly greater than that of hereditary transmission, and I therefore do not deem it advisable to take any measures against it." He brings forward a very strong argument in his favour when he says further : " If the bacilli of bovine tuberculosis were able to affect human beings, many cases of tuberculosis caused by the consumption of alimenta containing tubercle bacilli could not but occur among the inhabitants of great cities, especially the children, and in reality this is not the case." At the recent Congress on tuberculosis held at Berlin in October 1902, Koch still upholds his former contentions, and is still convinced that his view is correct. Due consideration must be given to the opinions, deliberately formed, of a man in his leading position, and the evidence against them must be very care- fully weighed. Moller of Danzig strongly sup- ports Koch.