YELLOW FEVER 591 centre is found on the West Coast of Africa, its limits here including Sierra Leone, the Gambia, and Senegal. The first historical outbreak on the West Coast occurred in 1759. Rio de Janeiro and the neighbouring coasts of Brazil form a third centre, where the disease has only become acclimatised since 1849. In none of these centres, however, has the disease been continually present from the time when its presence was first noted. It has been absent, at least in a recognisable form, for years from every island in the West Indies, and from every locality on the West Coast of Africa and Brazil. Havana, until recently a hotbed of yellow fever, is believed to have been free from it from 1655 to 1761, a period of more than a hundred years, during which the town was reputed for its salubrity. The history of yellow fever points to it being carried by shipping from place to place within a certain zone, and from one zone to another, and persisting for a longer or shorter time in a giveti place accord- ing as conditions are more or less favourable, and then disappearing, until it is again intro- duced from without. It is thus endemic in zones rather than in places, and is probably maintained by the native infant population who have it in a mild form. Epidemic Extensions. — Yellow fever was scarcely absent from one or other of the coast or river towns of the Southern States of the Union up to the last quarter of the nineteenth century. New Orleans, Charleston, and Mobile, from their proximity to the West Indies and their frequent intercourse with infected localities, suffered most. Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York, on the middle Atlantic coast, were also frequently visited by the disease. Yellow fever appeared so far north as Quebec in 1805 and Halifax (Nova Scotia) in 1862. From the West Indies it has from time to time invaded Central America, Venezuela, Guiana, and Bermudas. With the exception of Peru, where the disease has shown a tendency to become acclimatised, the Pacific Coast of America has suffered little. In Europe, Spain and Portugal have been the chief scenes of its ravages. The close commer- cial and political relations subsisting between these countries and the West Indies and Brazil, as well as their semi-tropical climate, account for the frequency and severity of the outbreaks of yellow fever from which they have suffered. Indeed, some of the epidemics in Spain have been incomparably more fatal than any re- corded in the countries where yellow fever is endemic, falling as they have done on a sus- ceptible population. The disease has always declared itself in one or other of the seaports— Cadiz, Malaga, Barcelona, Gibraltar, or Lisbon, and has generally been confined to these. In 1800-1804, and again in 1819-21, yellow fever penetrated for a considerable distance inland. and maintained itself for some time in a quasi- endemic manner. Leghorn experienced a fatal outbreak in 1804. It has frequently been introduced into the harbours of France and England, but has rarely spread on shore, and never to any extent. Yellow fever was brought into Swansea from Cuba in 1864, and caused sixteen deaths on shore. The East Coast of Africa, the northern parts of Europe, the whole continent of Asia, Australia, and Polynesia have hitherto remained exempt. Its latitudinal limits have been Monte Video in 34° 54' S., and Swansea, 51° 37' N. Epidemic Characters.—Yellow fever never appears in a seaport outside its endemic limits excepting after the arrival of a vessel from an infected "port. An epidemy begins by one or two cases, which generally declare themselves near the shore—in the custom-house, or in the quarters frequented by sailors or those employed in discharging vessels. After an interval, not uniform, and often not very accurately re- corded, but which may be stated as from ten to thirty days, secondary cases appear in the house or vicinity of the primary case, or among those who have visited the infected house. As new foci are established the circle of infection widens, and the disease first assumes epidemic proportions after the lapse of six weeks to two months. It is important to bear in mind that as the disease extends the interval between primary and secondary cases appearing in houses situated in districts and suburbs previously exempt often does not exceed a few days. A patient, for example, residing in a hitherto healthy suburb contracts the disease. Other cases immediately follow in the same house. The patient is removed to another house for treatment, and the inmates of his new quarters are in turn seized with fever in three or four days after his arrival. Several instances of this kind will be found in the report of the Lisbon epidemy of "1857 (see also Berenger-Feraud, pp. 546 and 598). Instances such as these, and they are somewhat numerous, should not be ignored merely because they do not seem to harmonise with any of the current theories of infection. In most instances yellow fever is restricted to particular localities, especially the insanitary quarters of the town, where the streets and lanes are narrow, overcrowded, badly ventilated, and imperfectly exposed to the sun's rays. The progress, extent, and duration of an epidemy are largely dependent on season, temperature, local conditions, and the susceptibility of the population. When the whole community is susceptible, and climatic and other conditions are favourable to its spread, it may invade a whole city, as happened to Barcelona in 1821, where 70,000 attacks and 20,000 deaths took place in a population of about 80,000. The first cases are, as a rule, most fatal.