UTERUS, NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE 354 recorded as having occurred in women in good health and in whom no cause of injury to the tumour could be discovered. {See CuUing- worth, Journal of Obstet. and Gynaecol., January 1902.) The explanation is difficult; probably the blood-supply to the tumour was inadequate for its nourishment, and infection from some unrecognised source reached the dying tissues. B. Transition to other Forms of Groivth in Fibroids 1. Sarcomatous change is recorded by all observers, and appears to be commoner than was formerly thought to be the case. It occurred twice in 208 cases reported by Ch. Noble, six times in 205 cases reported by A. Martin, once in 100 cases reported by Dr. Cullingworth, and six times in 100 cases re- ported by Mrs Scharlieb. The difficulty seems to be to determine whether the connective tissue becomes replaced by sarcoma cells, or whether there is a sarcomatous invasion of the muscle fibre cells (Discussion Obst. Society of London, 1898, Obst. Trans., pp. 178 and 227). 2. Carcinomatous change is rare in fibroids, and from histological considerations is less to be expected than the sarcomatous. Still, epi- thelial structures have been observed in fibroids, and are probably due in some cases to the nipping off by the growth of portions of the uterine glands which normally pass deep into the tissues. In other cases the epithelial tissues may be derived from aberrant remnants of the Wolffian body or the Mullerian duct. The association of fibroids of the uterus with carcinoma or epithelioma of the body or cervix, though not uncommon, appears to be accidental. Of course the existence of the one disease is no bar to the development of the other, while both are common. 3. Teleangiectatic Change.—In some cases not only are the ordinary vessels in the capsule and the uterine vessels themselves of enormous size, but the capillaries in the tumour appear to have become transformed into a network of sinuses somewhat like that existing in a preg- nant uterus. They have no definite walls except a lining of endothelium, and are ad- herent to the muscular bundles. The portions of tumour that are thus degenerated are said to look " like a sponge engorged with blood." They furnish a loud venous hum such as is heai'd over the placental site, and may tend to obscure the differential diagnosis of the tumour. 4. Lymphangiectatic changes also occur. The lymph spaces between the bundles of fibres become dilated and filled with lymph, giving rise to one variety of fibro-cystic tumour. C. " Cystic " Change in Fibroids The term "cystic" fibroid has been applied to many different forms of cavities within fibroid tumours. The true cyst is that which is lined with columnar epithelium and which originates in some granular elements enclosed within the tumour such as portions of uterine glands, or possibly from aberrant remains of foetal structures. These cysts contain a secreted fluid, may attain a large size, and may be multiple. The cavities or pseudo-cysts which are formed by fatty, necrotic, myxomatous, or suppurative changes may also attain a large size, but their walls are ragged, irregular, and without epithelial lining, while their contents may be soft, necrotic, or gelatinous material, altered blood, or pus, according to the nature of the change which produced the cavity. The cavities which occur in teleangiectasis and lym- phangiectasis have been described above. Indications for Operations on Fibroids.— These will be discussed under the following headings:— 1. Haemorrhage. 2. Pressure symptoms. 3. Rapid increase in size of the tumour. 4. Coexisting pregnancy. 5. Coexisting complications (such as disease of the pelvic organs or other viscera). 6. Sloughing and other degenerations of the tumour itself. 7. The patient's social position and moral considerations. 1. Hcemorrhage was long considered almost the only indication for operations on fibroids. Operations, except for removal of fibroid polypi already extruded into the vagina, were seldom proposed until the profound anaemia and general debility were so marked that, operation or no operation, the patient was nearly sure to die. Hsemorrhage may kill the patient directly, as in the case recorded by Matthews Duncan, but this is not common. Women have a re- markable, but not unlimited, power of making fresh supplies of blood. Frequently the fatal result is indirect, the woman being incapable in her exhausted and anaemic state of repelling attacks of illness or of convalescing from them. She is also liable to serious cardiac and vascular depreciation. 2. Pressure symptoms are most formidable when the tumour is incarcerated in the pelvis. They resemble those which occur in a case of retroverted or retroflexed gravid uterus. There is frequently retention of the urine due to pressure on the urethra or on the neck of the bladder. From time to time a little paralytic dribbling may occur, but the bladder is not relieved and requires the use of the catheter. Pressure on one or both ureters as they cross the pelvic brim may lead to hydro-ureter, and to further serious mischief in one or both kidneys (hydro- and pyo-nephrosis). Pressure on the rectum is seldom as painful or as prohibitive to function as in the case of pressure on the bladder, but it causes pain, constipation, tenesmus, con-