VERRUGA PERUANA 443 usually appear in crops. The limbs, face, and neck are chiefly involved; the trunk, palms, and soles being less liable. Prickling sensations sometimes precede them, and itching is often extreme. Many are very vascular and readily bleed; others may ulcerate and exude a brownish fluid, which forms a crust under which they heal, or they gradually pale, desquamate, and disappear. Not only do they involve the skin, but also the conjunctiva, any part of the ali- mentary or respiratory mucous membranes, the connective tissue of the parenchymatous organs, the muscles, periosteum, or bones, and even the meninges and nervous centres. The larger (subcutaneous) forms are never found internally, and commence in the sub- cutaneous connective tissue. Invisible but palpable nodules appear, which become adherent to the skin, causing reddening and tenderness and finally rupturing, and appear as reddish painful tumours with offensive discharge, and spherical, conical, mushroom-like, or irregular in shape. Their size varies from that of a nut to that of an apple, and they are sessile or pedunculated. Vascularity is a marked feature, and hsemorrhages, sometimes dangerous and always increasing the anaemia, are not infrequent. Rarely the initial swelling simulates fl uctuation, but from the entry of pyogenic organisms actual suppurative foci, ulceration, and even gangrene may arise. The growths have an especial pre- dilection for the face, knee, and back of hands, especially over the metacarpo-phalangeal joints of thumb and index finger; the trunk is, again, less liable. Course and Sequelce.—This stage of eruption generally lasts four to six months, but with in- termissions may even last two years or more. Generalised cases are usually more rapid. In most cases the growths shrivel or ulcerate and gradually disappear, but considerable ansemia and debility are left, and neuralgias are often troublesome. Profuse hsemorrhages, entry of pathogenic organisms, or some other complica- tion, may cause death, and the mortality at periods of exceptional prevalence is great. Although one attack is supposed to confer immunity, recurrences have been reported. Morbid Anatomy.—In non-eruptive cases the dominant features are the ansemic condition (with the exception of localised congestions of lung or elsewhere) of all organs, and the fluid and slowly coagidating blood. The liver, from destruction of red cells, is frequently dark coloured, the lymphatic and mesenteric glands and Peyer's patches are enlarged, and there are signs of activity in the bone marrow. The tumours arise from the connective tissue of the skin or elsewhere, and are essentially composed of a mass of embryonic cells with large nuclei, some polynuclear leucocytes, and a few fixed cells, supported by a delicate fibrous stroma. The epidermis over them is infiltrated with leucocytes, and in the ulcerated cases foci of suppuration are seen. The vessels are often large, numerous, and distended with blood ; they may appear as if hollowed out of the tumour mass, and small hsemorrhagic foci may be present. According to Letulle, the lymphatics are dilated ; and Nicolle, contrary to the general experience, claims to have found giant-cells and caseation in internal verrugge. Bacteriology.—Bacilli have been found by Isquierdo and Letulle in the depths of the non- ulcerated skin tumours, and by Nicolle in in- ternal verrugse. They somewhat resemble the tubercle bacillus, and, after prolonged staining, resist, as it does, the decolorising action of acids. They are sometimes intracellular (Nicolle). Various kinds of pyogenic cocci, probably from secondary infection, have also been found in the ulcerative lesions. Florez obtained chain cul- tures of cocci by inoculating agar-agar with verrugous blood; and Odriozola found in the grave febrile forms a very short bacillus, only colourable by Loeffler's stain, until after cultiva- tion in bouillon, when it was larger and stained readily. Up to the present, however, all attempted inoculations of animals with these organisms have failed, and the bacteriology is therefore indefinite. Diagnosis. — This presents little difficulty except in non-eruptive cases or in the pre- eruptive stage. In Peru, residence in the en- demic districts must always be carefully inquired into. Malarial fevers, which are frequently simulated, are best distinguished by blood ex- amination ; but the presence of the plasmodium is not conclusive against verruga, as the diseases sometimes co-exist. The inefficacy of quinine, the more rapidly produced ansemia, the glandular enlargement and vertigo, with the localised pains and less marked splenic involvement, are therefore additional distinctions. Pernicious angemia, ankylostomiasis, rheumatism, and acute hepatitis can be readily distinguished. The eruption resembles in many respects that of yaws ; but the latter is a disease of low lands, attacks coloured races almost exclusively, is more contagious, has no local limitations, and is acquired quite differently. The general symp- toms, too, are hardly noticeable, the growths are never found internally, and it is chiefly prevalent in early youth. Lastly, unlike yaws, animals can be inoculated with verruga, and suffer from a similar disease ; and there are cases recorded of apparent infec- tion "in utero," which is at least doubtful in yaws. Prognosis.—With severe constitutional symp- toms and repressed eruption, especially with a comparatively low temperature, or where pul- monary complications supervene, prognosis is extremely grave. So also are cases with symp- toms pointing to verrugse in important organs, while the most favourable cases are those with