101 TRAGACANTH pend insoluble bodies such as resins and oils and insoluble powders. For such purposes the mucilage is to be preferred. The Glycerinum is a useful pill excipient. Tra.g'US.—A small cartilage of the external ear (Gr. rpayos, a goat) projecting over the meatus auditorius externus. See Ear, Examina- tion OF THE {Pinna). Trai n i n g. — Education by practical manoeuvres which gradually gives the power of doing easily complicated processes; muscular exercise, special diet and regimen as in prepar- ing for sports; also, the early education of the blind or mentally defective in the ordinary acts of life, walking, dressing, feeding themselves, and the like. See Blindness (Home-Training); Nursing, Training for ; Physiology, Dietetics {Energy Requirements). Trance.—A form of abnormal sleep, due commonly to hysteria or hypnotism, and so profound that it is very difficult to arouse the patient from it. See Catalepsy ; Hypnotism ; Hysteria, Sleep, Normal and Morbid ; Un- consciousness. Trans-.—In compound words trans- (Lat. trans, across) means through or across, e.g. transfix (to pierce through and through), trans- foration (the act of boring or perforating, as in craniotomy or basilysis), etc. Transference. — Thought - reading or mind-reading; suggestion in hypnotism. See Thought-Reading. Transfusion. Uses of 101 Methods— {a) Immediate. . . . .102 (6) Mediate 102 (c) Transfusion of Blood with Phos- phate of Soda Solution . .102 {d) Injection of Saline Solution . 102 See also Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Anfsmia, Treatment); Eclampsia {Treatment); Labour, Post-partum Haemorrhage {Treatment). The transfusion of blood is an operation of some antiquity. History relates that so long ago as in 1492, it was practised in the case of Pope Innocent VIII. It has been performed from time to time during the last century, and comparatively recently was often employed in severe cases of post-partum or other haemorrhage. In such cases of sudden haemorrhage the operation is not called for, and should never be performed. In the infusion of saline fluids we have a simpler and safer proceeding, which satisfactorily fulfils the indication in a sudden and profuse bleeding of filling the emptied heart and vessels, and maintaining the intravascular pressure at a point at which the heart is able to carry on the circulation, until new blood has time to be formed. There are, however, certain conditions other than sudden haemorrhage in which blood-trans- fusion may be, and has on many occasions proved itself to be, beneficial. In pernicious anaemia, a condition little amenable to other treatment, sufficient cases have been success- fully treated by blood-transfusion to encourage further work in this direction ; while in certain cases of persistent recurrent haemorrhage, which were operated upon by the writer, transfusion of blood put a stop to the obstinate bleedings, when all other forms of haemostatic treatment, local and general, had failed. In these cases the operations which were originally undertaken for the relief of the anaemia resulting from per- sistent small haemorrhages, had the unexpected, but undeniable, effect of curing, not only the anaemia, but also the bleeding which had caused the anaemia. The exact value of blood-transfusion in per- nicious anaemia, recurrent haemorrhages, and other diseased conditions, such as septicaemia, must be considered to be still suh judice; and it is well to remember that, in judging of such a method, an ounce of unmistakable clinical success is of more value than a ton of adverse laboratory speculation. The arguments brought against blood-trans- fusion are, firstly, the immediate danger of the operation from the introduction of air, clots, or septic material, and the formation of thrombi, especially in the portal and pulmonary capil- laries ; and, secondly, the supposed uselessness of the procedure, because of the breaking up of the corpuscles of the blood which has been injected. With regard to the first objection it may be said that the introduction of air, clots, or septic organisms is due to faulty operative methods, and is avoidable ; while the danger from throm- bosis, apart from the inti'oduction of palpable clots, is somewhat problematical. With regard to the second objection, it may be the case that the corpuscles break up, and that this event may be followed by a certain amount of fever and haemoglobinuria: fortunately these occur- rences do not appear to be dangerous, or necessarily to interfere with the good effects of the operation. Nothing can be more certain than that the corpuscular improvement noted in several cases of pernicious anaemia has been out of all proportion to the small amount of blood introduced ; this improvement, which is often progressive, is evidently due to a stimulation of the blood-forming organs by the new blood thrown in ; but in what particular part of the injected blood this stimulant property lies is doubtful; possibly it is in the serum and not in the corpuscles at all.