405 VAGINA, DISORDERS OF THE frequent and obstinate complication of tiie vulvitis that is observed in infants and young children. This vulvitus may be due to various causes. Dirt is one of these, and worms form a second; these are, however, rarely efficient in setting up an inflammation of the vulva. The exciting cause in the great majority of cases is a micro-organism. Of the germs giving rise to vulvitis, by far the most frequent and important is the gonococcus, which is conveyed by means of unclean linen, bedclothes, or towels ; thus Robinson {Obst. Trans., 1899, vol. xli. p. 14) investigated 54 cases of vulvitis in children, and found that in 41, or nearly 76 per cent of them, the gonococcus was present in the discharge. In further proof of the infective nature of many of these cases are the facts that frequently the affection occurs in epidemic form, and that in many instances some other person in the same household is affected by a gonorrhceal, or at least a suspicious, discharge. Many cases of vulvitis yield readily to simple treatment. A large proportion, however, obsti- nately resist medication, and it is found on closer examination that these are usually com- plicated by the presence of a vaginitis. The vaginitis is shown, in some cases, by the escape of pus at the vaginal orifice. Examination of the vagina, which may conveniently be done even in the yomigest child by means of Kelly's bladder speculum, shows that some portion of the vaginal mucous membrane is red and raised above the surface and secreting. These patches are most commonly found in the upper part of the vagina, especially on the posterior wall. Treatment must be directed to the vaginal con- dition as well as to that of the vulva; the most convenient methods of treating the vaginitis are by passing thin bougies composed of cocoa- butter or glyco-gelatin, and containing iodoform, boracic acid, or protargol, and by injecting by means of a syringe with a long fine nozzle some solution, such as one of nitrate of silver, 5 to 10 grains to the ounce. At the same time, the usual treatment appropriate to uncomplicated vulvitis is required, along with careful attention to the genei'al health of the child. 2. Pseudo-membranous Vaginitis. — Pseudo- membranous vaginitis is rare, and in the vagina, as elsewhere, no sharp division is possible be- tween superficial and deep processes. The pseudo-membranes appear as small gi'ey patches, which form especially on the summits of the folds of the mucous membrane, and by increasing in size and joining other patches may form extensive membranes. The mucous membrane surrounding the grey patches is, as a rule, markedly red and swollen, and may show scattered hjemorrhages. When the membranes are removed, small erosions or superficial ulcers are left, the healing of which, especially when they are situated in the upper part of the vagina, may lead to narrowing or atresia. This pseudo-membranous vaginitis is rarely met with as a real diphtheria due to Lofiler's bacillus ; sometimes it is present as a complication of the acute exanthemata, of cholera, typhoid fever, or dysentery. In these cases the process may extend more deeply and give rise to true ulcers, or sometimes even to dissecting para-vaginitis. The putrid discharges from a gangrenous ulcer, especially when complicated with urinary fistulse, may also lead to pseudo-membranous inflamma- tion of the lower part of the vagina. After labour a similar condition may arise, especially in the so-called diphtheritic endometritis, or the surface of injuries caused by labour may be- come covered with a grey layer — puerperal wound diphtheria. 3. Ulcerative Vaginitis.—Small superficial erosions are not infrequent in catarrhal vaginitis or as a result of slight injuries or of the applica- tion of caustics. In these cases there is no destruction of the connective tissue under the epithelium, and no scar is formed, although adhesions to other similar erosions may take place. Sometimes, however, as a result of in- flammation there is actual destruction of more or less of the connective tissue with consequent formation of scar tissue. For instance, what for want of a better name may be termed p?-essm-e sores are met with either in the nor- mally situated or in the prolapsed vagina. In the former case the most frequent cause is an ill-fitting pessary, which by its pressure gives rise to local antemia and superficial gangrene ; in this variety of pressure sore, long-continued irritation gives rise to extensive, small round- celled infiltration around the ulcer, and the pessary may eventually become buried in graiui- lation tissue, which, after the removal of the offending object, may contract so as to cause stenosis or atresia of the vagina. In some cases the pressure may be so severe or long continued as to cause perforation into the bladder or rectum. In old-standing cases of prolapse deep ulcers sometimes form which may attain the size of the palm of the hand, or may be multiple ; they are usually met with on the anterior wall of the vagina and near the attachment to the cervix; the form of the ulcer may be round, triangular, or more often irregular; the edges are sharply defined and slope towards the base of the ulcer, which is depressed and covered by a dirty greyish layer, sometimes with scattered imperfect granulations; the neighbourhood of the ulcer is not reddened or infiltrated. The cause in these cases is partial strangulation along with repeated irritation, mechanical by friction against the thighs and clothes, and chemical by the flow of decomposing urine over the surface. Parturition is another fertile source of ulcera- tive vaginitis; in every labour there arise in the vagina breaches of surface which may be