515 WATEH as in Loch Katrine, for the supply of Glasgow, or in an artificial reservoir or lake, as at Vyrnwy, Wales, for the supply of Liverpool. If the hills are covered in part with peat the water may become more or less discoloured—" peaty." This peaty matter, unless in excess, is quite harmless, and such water if stored for a length of time in open reservoirs gradually bleaches. A water strongly impregnated with peat is believed to give rise to attacks of diarrhoea, especially amongst those unaccustomed to its use. Quite recently it has been demonstrated that in peat there are acid-producing bacteria capable of giving an acid reaction to the water, and such waters act markedly upon lead, zinc, and iron. In the north of England thousands of cases of " plumbism " have occurred from the use of such waters distributed through leaden pipes. Surface water collected from the surface of moorlands upon which farms are situated is liable to pollution, and should not be used unless stored for a length of time, and finally carefully filtered before being distributed. When rain falls upoii a pervious surface, as of sand, gravel, and chalk, a portion penetrates the soil and accumulates there. It is then known as subsoil or ground water. Beneath the pervious rock there is always, at a greater or lesser depth, a stratum of an impervious char- acter which holds up the water. The surface of this stratum usually sloping, the water gener- ally travels more or less quickly in a given direction towards an outlet into the stream draining that particular area. Where the im- pervious stratum comes to the surface or out- crops the water will issue forth as a spring. Such spring waters are usually bright and pure on account of the water having travelled slowly, and for a considerable distance through the pores of the pervious rock. This subsoil or ground water is yielded by all shallow wells, and forms a most important and nmcli maligned source of supply. The evil reputation of shallow well water is not due to the character of the subsoil water, but to the unfortunate sites selected for wells, and the unscientific and careless method of construction. The rain fall- ing upon pervious ground, ground more or less cultivated, naturally takes up not only mineral matters from the soil, but also organic matter from manure, decaying vegetation, etc. Foi'- tunately there are found in all fertile soils micro-organisms which rapidly act upon the dis- solved organic matter, converting it into harm- less carbonates and nitrates, and the natural filtration of a compact soil quickly removes all, or nearly all, suspended matter, including the bacteria. The more compact the soil and the greater the depth of the ground water, the purer is the supply likely to be. In compact sandy gravel, loam, chalk, etc., a pure water may be usually obtained from a properly con- structed and situated well if the water level is six feet or more from the surface. In selecting a site for a well the proximity to highly man- ured ground should be avoided. Cesspools and drains should be as distant as possible, and the well should be on the side of the higher ground- water level. If, for example, the ground water flows from east to west the well should be to the east of the possible sources of pollution, any polluting matter entering the soil will then flow away from the well, whereas if the well is on the west the filth will flow towards the well and possibly contaminate the water. Water enter- ing a well at a less depth than six or eight feet cannot be depended upon as being efficiently filtered or purified, therefore this upper portion should be constructed of impervious material, brickwork set in cement, glazed earthenware tubes, or of iron cylinders, and the top should be so finished off that no surface water can possibly gain access. For this purpose it is desirable that the top of the well should be brought up six to twelve inches above the ground surface and covered with a proper flag- stone or iron cover. When the soil is gravelly an Abyssinian tube well may be used. This consists merely of a perforated and pointed steel tube driven into the ground until the point is well below the ground-water level. A pump is then fixed to the projecting tube. If care be taken to puddle well round the upper portion of the tube and to fix it firmly, so that no surface water can travel down the loose soil surrounding it, these tube wells are both eco- nomical and satisfactory. In shallow wells, otherwise properly con- structed, polluting matter often enters along the track of the pump pipe. This is, generally, simply put through a hole in the brickwork. The constant shaking loosens the earth along the track of the pipe, and surface water follow- ing this line of least resistance trickles into the well. The pipe should either enter the well above the ground surface or have a collar upon it, the collar being embedded in cement between the two layers of brick enclosing the well. Springs are not generally utilised for large public supplies, as the flow is in most cases too variable, falling off seriously in the late summer just when the demand for water is greatest. They are largely used, however, in rural districts, and if properly protected are, in most cases, very satisfactory sources of supply. The water usually has travelled a considerable distance, percolating horizontally through the subsoil, and has become thoroughly purified and filtered. The ground around a well or spring should be protected, no manurial matter of any kind being placed thereon, and cattle should not be allowed to gain access to the water, or to trample on the ground around. This protective area need not be more than a few yards in diameter, in the case of a well from which only a small quantity of water is drawn, as when