VULVA, DISEASES OF THE 510 Carunculce hymenales are the remnants of the hymen after intercourse has taken place. After child-birth the hymen becomes further destroyed, its remnants being then known as carunculce myrtiformes. Both kinds of caruncle may be- come acutely tender and painful, leading to dyspareunia. A number of congested spots resembling small recent bruises or petechial haemorrhages are then seen. They require to be excised. Small cysts lined with epithelium have some- times been found in the tissues of the hymen. Vulvar or Vulval.—Belonging to the vulva, e.g. vulvar abscess (abscess of the Bartho- linian gland), vulvar canal, vulvar condylomata, etc. See Vulva, Diseases of. Vulvitis.—Inflammation of the vulva or pudenda. See Vulva, Diseases of {Inflamma- tions) ; PuEBPERiuM, Pathology, Puerperal Infection (Vulvitis). VulVO-.—In compound words vulvo- means relating to the vulva ; e.g. vulvo-vaginitis (in- flammation of the vulva and vagina), vulvo- uterine (relating to the vulva and uterus), vulvo- vaginal, etc. See Vulva, Diseases of the ; Vagina, Disorders of the ; etc. Wachendorf s Membrane.—The membrana pupillaris. See. Wachsmuth's Mixture. —An anaesthetic mixture containing one part of oil of turpentine to four parts of chloroform. Wade's Balsam or Drops.—Com- pound tincture of Benzoin; Friar's Balsam. See Benzoinum. Wagner's Corpuscles. See Skin, Anatomy and Physiology (Tactile Corpuscles or Meissner's Bodies). Wagner's Operation. See Brain, Surgery of {Trephining, Osteoplastic Method). Wahlberga. See Balneology {Norway and Siveden). Waistcoat, Strait. See Insanity, General Treatment of {Mechanical Restraint). Walcher's Position.—The hanging thigh position; the body of the patient is brought so that the buttocks rest on the edge of the operating table or bed and the legs are allowed to hang over the edge; it is of use in cases of contracted pelvis in labour, for it causes a slight increase in the size of the conjugate diameter of the pelvic brim. See Labour, Pre- cipitate and Prolonged {Treatment of Labour tvith Contracted Pelvis). Waldeyer's Epithelium. — The germinal epithelium covering the free surface of the ovary during development. Walking. See Children, Development OF {Motor Functions, Age of Walking). Wallerian Degeneration. — The degeneration which takes place in nerves which have been separated from their trophic centres. See Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism {Spinal Cord, Conducting Paths, Wallerian Method). Walther's Ducts.—The ducts of the sublingual salivary gland. Walther's Ganglion.—The coccygeal ganglion or ganglion impar. Wandering.—Changing position; e.g. & wandering kidney, liver, or spleen (floating kidney, liver, or spleen), a wandering tumour {e.g. a dermoid ovarian tumour or a uterine fibroid which has got separated from the organ from which it grew), and a wandering rash (superficial glossitis of the tongue). See Spleen, Surgery of {Movable Spleen); Tongue {Glossitis), etc. Wanklyn's Process.—The ammonia method of estimating the nitrogenous organic matter present in water. Warbu rg's Ti neture.—A diaphoretic and antiperiodic mixture {tinctura antiperiodica) containing quinine, aloes, opium, rhubarb, camphor, and various aromatics; it is used in doses of 1 to 4 fl. dr. in malaria. See Malaria {Treatment). Wardrop'S Disease.—Paronychia or onychia maligna. See Nails, Diseases of the {Onychia). Ward's Paste. — Confection of black pepper. Warmbrunn. See Balneology {Germany, Thermal Waters). Warming. See Ventilation and Warming. Wart pox.—An abortive type of smallpox, in which about the fifth day the vesicles dry up instead of filling with pus. Warts or VerruCSe. See also Der- matitis Traumatica et Venenata {Tar Workers); Ear, External, Diseases of {Epi- thelioma of External Meatus); Lung, Tuber- culosis op {Complications, Integumentary System, Warts); Venereal Disease {Allied Diseases, Venereal Warts); Verruga Peruana. —Verruca Vulgaris or Common Wart.—Com- mon warts usually occur about the backs of the hands and fingers, but sometimes also on the palmar aspect. The groove along the side of the nail is a favourite situation. They are