583 X-RAYS Sciences (Dec. 30, 1901), by Bordier; papers by Apostoli and Berlioz, and Laquerriere in the Archives d'electricite Medicale and the Annates d^electrobiologie, etc., etc. A good deal both of experimental and of clinical work has been done in "tuberculosis." Denoyes inoculated a number of guinea-pigs with tubercle and studied the action of the various modes of employment of these currents upon them ; other guinea-pigs inoculated at the same time served as controls. The net result of these experiments, which are narrated with great care and elaboration in Denoyes' book, serve to show that the high frequency currents, particularly under the form of a moderate effluve, have a beneficial effect upon experi- mental tuberculosis. Riviere states {B.M.J., Jan. 11, 1902): " High frequency currents exer- cise a certain curative action upon tuberculosis. The microbe cannot resist the repeated applica- tion of these currents; its reproductive power and the virulence of its toxins become atten- uated, a fact which had already been proved by the laboratory experiments of d'Arsonval. It appears that at the same time the human organism under the influence of these currents gets stronger, its enemy, the microbe, grows weaker. The acceleration that these currents bring to the circulation of the blood and lymph favours osmotic action. This allows the organ- ism to eliminate the refuse and the toxins that invade and infect it. It is also probable that under the influence of this form of electrisation the beneficial action of the phagocytes increases in activity. It thus appears evident that in these conditions the attacked organism recovers its strength, and, aided by the phagocytes, finally prevails against the bacillus. It is therefore sufficient to place the patient in the best conditions of food and hygiene to avoid the return of the disease." Doumer, Oudin, Riviere, Denoyes, and others have recorded many cases of chronic pulmonary consumption which derived great benefit from the application of the effluve to the aff'ected apices. Chisholm Williams records 4.3 cases, of which 42 put on weight, and lost all symp- toms except in a few where a slight cough and a few bacilli may be found occasionally. Where there is any grave aff'ection of the heart the currents should be used with caution. Good results have been obtained in "chronic dyspepsia" and in "dilatation of the stomach," but the most striking results have been achieved in "haemorrhoids and in fissure." Dr. Walker mentions an acute case which was apparently cured by two applications; another case of long standing with bunches of piles pi"otruding, bleeding frequently and painful anal fissure has, after daily applications for four weeks, shown almost complete recovery. Doumer records permanent cure in nine cases, each one of which was associated with a fissure. Five or six local applications were sufficient to cure the bulk of his series. The author, using a condenser electrode, can quite confirm these results; one application is usually followed by marked relief. There can be no doubt about the great value of this treatment in haemorrhoids. The applica- tion, lasting from five to ten minutes, should be made by a rectal condenser electrode brought into actual contact with the sphincter and gradually passed into the rectum; owing to the analgesic action of the current but little dis- comfort will be felt. Denoyes publishes a case of " progressive muscular atrophy" in which he obtained a remarkable result [Courants de haute frequence, p. 289); similar cases are also on record; secondary muscular atrophies are also benefited. Condensations or local applications may be tried in " tabes dorsalis." A case treated by the author in this way undoubtedly benefited. In " trachoma " Dr. Walsh found " that twenty- three painless applications of the efiiuve caused the disappearance of a disease that under ordinary treatment would have lingered on for two or three years. The only altered conditions of environment was the application of the effluve, and the patient's other eye remains as bad as ever, so that the brush discharge may reasonably be regarded as the curative agency" [Archives of the Rontgen Ray, Jan. 1903). The effluve has been used with varying degrees of success in eczema, psoriasis, pruritus, rodent ulcer, and lupus. Four cases of " diabetes " have been recorded by Vietti, and two by d'Arsonval, in which the sugar either disappeared or was much reduced ; others have found that though the general condition was benefited, no diminution in the glycosuria followed. Auto-conduction is the method usually applied in diabetes. More recently these currents have been found of distinct value in certain cases of " malignant disease," such as cancer of the bladder, uterus, rectum, thi'oat, and nasal cavities. It is possible that they may partly supplant the Rontgen rays in the treatment of malignant disease, for they can be used not only for the cavities above mentioned, in which much success with the Rontgen rays can scarcely be expected owing to the tissue which has to be penetrated, but also for the external cases; and they have this great advantage over the rays, namely, that they do not produce a dermatitis. In properly selected cases the author has seen the disappearance of pain and of pressure symptoms, the complete healing of ulcers, the diminution or disappearance of the growth, the restoration of sleep and appetite, and the gaining in weight, but in no case yet has he observed a complete cure. A very instructive case was the following:— The patient had been previously operated on, and the right mamma and pectoralis muscle