180 TYPHOID FEVER soft with granular or fatty changes, or the " myocardite segmentaire " of Renaut. Endocarditis and pericarditis are rare. Typhoid bacilli have been found in the myo- cardium and in the vegetations on the valves. Blood-Vessels.—Arteritis, and more commonly phlebitis, with typhoid bacilli in the walls of the vessels, occur and give rise to thrombosis, and may be gangrene. Respiratory Organs.—The changes in the respiratory organs are indicated by the various affections described under the head of " Conipli- cations." The specific bacillus may be discovered sometimes in the lungs, but it is much more common to find other micro-organisms. Nervous System.—The symptoms of nerve disturbance in typhoid fever are more often due to toxic blood conditions than to organic disease, but meningeal inflammation, cerebral softening, and peripheral or spinal cord changes may occur, and are described under the head of " Complications." Muscles.—Hyaline degeneration of muscles occurs in typhoid as in other fevers, and it sometimes leads to rupture of muscles and con- sequent hsematomata or abscesses. Bones.—The changes in the medulla and periosteum of bones are not special to typhoid fever, but the typhoid bacillus is not infrequently found in the pus in abscesses in these structures. Pathology.—The bacilli, for the most part, gaining entry into the body by the alimentary canal, invade the lymphatic tissues beneath the mucous membrane of the intestine, and pass through the mesenteric glands into the blood, spleen, and other organs. It is to the poison resulting from the bacilli, the exact constitution of which is not known, that are due most of the symptoms of typhoid fever. The poison is, for the most part, intracellular, and in the bacilli themselves, filtered cultures being of little power ; but there is evidence that the toxins from the bacilli may diffuse into the culture medium or into the fluids of the body. The typhoid bacilli are themselves pyogenetic, but many of the local lesions and the toxic symptoms are producible by other micro-organisms, the growth of which becomes more active in presence of the typhoid bacillus. Various organisms take part in this mixed infection, chiefly the streptococcus, the staphylococcus pyogenes, the bacillus coli communis, and the pneumococcus. The chief poison produced by the typhoid germ appears to be an albuminoid, and has been called typhotoxin. Speculations have been published as to difference in the symptoms pro- duced by the products of the typhoid, and of other bacilli in the blood ; most often, probably, the symptoms are due to mixed toxaemia. Dr. Alexander Paine, of St. Mary's Hospital, has kindly written on "The Serum Diagnosis of Typhoid," as follows :— The action which the blood of individuals suffering from typhoid has on cultivations of the typhoid bacillus is a valuable aid in the recognition of that disease. If the serum of the blood of a patient suffer- ing from typhoid is added to a young broth- culture of the typhoid bacillus, the organisms lose their motility, aggregate in clumps (agglutination), and ultimately settle to the bottom of the liquid as a sediment, leaving the supernatant fluid clear. If the serum from a case other than typhoid is added, the bacilli remain actively motile, there is no sedimenta- tion, and the fluid retains its turbidity. This property of agglutinating organisms which the blood acquires in disease has been under consideration for many years. Its appli- cation to the diagnosis of this disease was made by Widal in 1896, hence it is known as Widal's Reaction. The reaction appears as early as the seventh day, or even earlier; it lasts throughout the course of the disease, and may be obtained for an indefinite period after convalescence is estab- lished, often many months. Other fluids of the body possess this property of agglutination—a reaction may be obtained from the milk, tears, and urine of typhoid patients, also from the fluid of blisters and other serous effusions. Drying of the blood does not destroy this power, though it diminishes it. In a small percentage of cases (3 per cent) of individuals suffering from typhoid the serum fails to agglutinate the bacilli; but all cultures of the organisms do not react equally to typhoid serum—not only are there different species of the organism, but in the same species varying conditions of growth may alter its characters in this respect. Since a reaction, though incomplete, may be given by the serum of a patient not suffering from typhoid—and even by the serum of a healthy individual if it is present in too large a quantity—it has been found necessary to dilute the serum when testing its agglutinative power. Low dilutions are not reliable for this reason ; on the other hand, with an excessive dilution a typhoid serum with feeble agglutin- ative power may fail to give the reaction. Various dilutions are used, but it is generally held that with a dilution of 1 in 30 there is a minimum of risk. Application of the Test.—A small quantity of blood taken (with every precaution to avoid contamination) from the ear or finger of the patient is drawn into a capillary tube and allowed to clot. The serum which separates may be tested in the following manner:— 1. Microscopically {rapidmethod).—Theserum is diluted with normal serum or normal saline by means of a graduated capillary pipette or a sterilised platinum loop, till half the required dilution is obtained. A loopfnl of the diluted serum is added to a