518 WATER there was no doubt the imperfectly purified sewage effluent had reached the well. Number- less cases of epidemic outbreaks have been traced to the use of water polluted by sewage not known to have been specifically infected. Several such outbreaks were due to the insuction of filth from closet pans flushed directly from the mains, and many to causes already illustrated. There is no doubt that the majority of the recorded small outbreaks are due to the use of polluted well water, and a careful study of these cases shows that in nearly every instance the pollution was obvious and gross. Where a well is properly constructed the risk of pollu- tion is infinitesimal, and there are no authentic records of water from such a well causing disease. The Maidstone outbreak (1897), one of the most serious which has occurred in this country, was entirely attributable to the pollu- tion of a spring, one of the several sources of supply to the town. This spring arose at the edge of some highly manured hop-fields, and must inevitably from time to time have become polluted. Specific infection could not be traced. In 1889 a serious outbreak of typhoid fever occurred at New Herrington (Durham), 278 out of a population of 3600 being attacked. The water supply was from a deep well, and the polluting matter, to which the outbreak was attributed, travelled from a farmyard three- quarters of a mile away through fissures in the rock and reached the well at a depth of forty- five feet. The reports of the Massachusetts Board of Health contain many records of epi- demics due to the use of polluted river water, and many such epidemics have occurred in this country, notably in the Tees and Trent valleys. London, supplied chiefly from the Thames and the Lea, experiences no special prevalence of typhoid fever, although the rivers receive enormous volumes of imperfectly purified sew- age effluents; this is attributable in part to the great dilution, but chiefly to the great care taken in filtering the water before distribution. To account for the outbreaks of typhoid fever from the use of sewage-polluted water it has been assumed that the bacillus coli communis, found in all foecal matter, is merely a degenerate non-virulent form of the typhoid bacillus, which may, under certain circumstances, again become virulent. There is no reliable evidence in proof of this assumption. That cholera is very frequently a water-borne disease is undoubted. That such was the case was suspected in the 1849 epidemic, but in 1854 an outbreak in London furnished con- clusive proof. This outbreak occurred round Uolden Square, Westminster, and was entirely limited to households using water from what was known as the Broad Street pump. About seventy-eight hours before the general outbreak it was found that a child had suffered from a fatal attack of " diarrhoea," and the stools had been thrown down a drain which ran near the well. This well was so defective that it was easily demonstrated that the sewage entered it. The much more recent outbreak at Hamburg was investigated by Koch, and attributed en- tirely to the use of the imperfectly purified water from the Elbe. The neighbouring town of Altona remained free from the disease until an accidental breakdown occurred at the water filtration works, which allowed impure water to be supplied for a short time to the town. Immediately afterwards cholera broke out in Altona. Entozoal disease may be contracted from drinking water containing the ova of such parasites. In this country there is evidence that the ova of Ascarides lumbricoides and Oxyuris may gain access to the system through the medium of water—in my experience gener- ally from the use of polluted pond water. Other entozoa infecting man, and which may be introduced by impure water, are :—Bilharzia hsematobia, Filaria sanguinis hominis, Dracun- culus medinensis, Rhabdonema intestinale, Trichocephalus dispar, and possibly species of taenia. The effect upon animals of drinking impure water appears to have received very little atten- tion, but outbreaks of anthrax, hog cholera, and glanders have been attributed to this cause. Farmers whose cattle have to drink water from polluted streams often attribute outbreaks of disease thereto, but such outbreaks are rarely carefully investigated. Probably such investi- gations would show not only that impure waters are inimical to the general health of cattle, but also a danger to those who consume their milk and flesh. A pure water should certainly be insisted upon for all dairy purposes, as notwithstanding the most careful supervision such water may contaminate the milk. Public water supplies should be of such a character that the water requires no further purification by the consumers. Water derived from carefully protected springs or from deep wells requires no treatment whatever, but sur- face waters iisually require careful filtration. During certain seasons minute forms of vege- table life are apt to occur, and these, either by their growth or decay, may render the water unsightly or even unpalatable. River waters, or water from any source liable to sewage contamination, should be efficiently purified before distribution. By proper collection in large reservoirs sedimentation occurs, and the sunlight destroys many bacteria ; finally, filtra- tion through beds of sand will remove over 99 per cent of the remaining organisms. This filtration, to be efficient, must be conducted in a scientific manner. Koch, who has paid great attention to this subject, asserts—(1) That the real effective agent in removing micro-organisms from the water being filtered is the layer of