TUMOURS 159 with the bladder, and thus set up changes in the kidneys. In many instances they coexist with pregnancy, and may obstruct the transit of the child or even prevent the pregnancy going to term. In some individuals the stalk of a pedunculated fibroid will entangle a coil of bowel and produce fatal intestinal obstruc- tion, or an impacted fibroid will press on the rectum and lead to the same result. In very many instances a woman may have many fibroids in her uterus and never suffer the least inconvenience. Neuromata and Neuro-fibromatosis. — The tumours of nerves formerly grouped together as neuromata by surgeons have never satisfied pathologists, but in recent years a large amount of careful investigation has been conducted into the histology of certain lesions of nerves and skin, which enable some remarkable and apparently diverse conditions to be included under the heading neuromata. The nerve centres, brain and spinal cord; the nerve trunks and their terminal twigs; the sympathetic nerve cords and their ganglia are all pervaded with connective tissue of varying degree of texture; for instance, it is coarse in the great sciatic nerve but of extreme delicacy in the retina and brain, where it is known as neuroglia. The common and familiar swelling to which the term neuroma is usually applied is an ovoid encapsuled tumour composed of tissue identical with that of the nerve sheath. These tumours may occur singly or in multiples upon any nerve or nerve roots. Some of them are no bigger than cherry stones; when one grows on the terminal twig of a cutaneous nerve it gives rise to such pain when touched that it is called in consequence a " painful subcutaneous tubercle." The common solitary neuroma has received a variety of names, depending on its minute structure, such as myxoma, myxo- fibroma, fibroma, and so on, the varieties of texture being due to degenerative changes in the tissue of the tumour. It has, however, been definitely proved that multiple tumours sometimes form in the skin and resemble lipomata, but on careful examination they have been found to contain nerve elements, and particularly nerve cells. These are known as ganglionic neuromata, and it is supposed that they arise on the terminal twigs of the sym- pathetic nerves distributed to the cutaneous branches of arteries. It has been known for many years that in- dividuals occasionally come under observation with tracts of skin excessively developed in the form of overlapping folds, and these may form on the trunk, head, or limbs. This condition is known under a variety of names, but that accepted by the most recent writers is molluscum fibrosum. This disease may also manifest itself in the form of a multitude of discrete nodules in the skin, varying in size from a mustard seed to a billiard ball. Recklinghausen, who studied the histology of tliese molluscum nodules with great care, has expressed the opinion that they arise from the terminal twigs of cutaneous nerves. These molluscum nodules occasionally occur in individuals who have also a multitude of irregular swellings on their nerves, and in one remarkable instance two thousand tumours were observed on the skin and nerve trunks of one man. It is also an important fact that though neuromata, molluscum nodules, and molluscous folds usually occur separately in individuals, nevertheless the three conditions are sometimes met with in the same patient. It is now usual to speak of the generalised form of the disease as neuro-fibromatosis, and an important feature connected with the extreme forms of the disease is the liability of the patients to sarcoma ; this may develop primarily, or arise as a malignant change in a molluscum nodule which has existed many years. In some cases of generalised neuro-fibromatosis the patients die from gradual exhaustion due to ulceration or septic changes in the large pendu- lous folds of skin. Pathologists have long been familiar with a peculiar overgrowth of the delicate connective tissue of the brain and spinal cord under the name of glioma; this appears as a translucent swelling imperfectly demarcated from the sur- rounding tissue, and, as a rule, this gliomatous tissue has little more consistency than vitreous humoiir; microscopically it has all the char- acters of neuroglia. Virchow points out that when a glioma is situated near the surface of the brain it appears like a colossal convolution, and when it attacks an optic thalamus this structure bulges into the third ventricle as though overgrown ; and occasionally the disease attacks the cerebral crura in children under twelve years of age, and produces peculiar en- largement of this part of the brain. It is an extraordinary fact that the connective tissue, especially the endoneurium of nerves, is liable to a similar change; this may be, and usually is, limited to a particular nerve and its branches, e.g. the anterior crural, the musculo- spiral, or the great occipital. The effect is very striking, for the nerves become thickened, elongated, and tortuous, and when cut across the nerve sheath is found filled with gelatinous tissue and produces an appearance not unlike the cut surface of an umbilical cord. Micro- scopic examination of the enlarged nerve reveals the axis cylinders embedded in overgrown endo- neurium. To this condition the term plexi- form neuroma is applied, and it is necessary to mention not only that the disease is congenital, but that the nerves most affected are often covered by pigmented skin; frequently the overlying skin is in the condition known as a hairy mole.