TOXICOLOGY 75 cause has been arrested. Even among medical men there is often an indefensible prejudice against the administration of iron to pregnant women; if, for the purpose of medicinal treat- ment, the health of a pregnant women calls for the administration of iron, there is no reason why it should not be given. Of the general poisons which indirectly cause abortion, two are exceptionally active—phosphorus and lead ; with one exception the vegetable ecbolics are simply purgatives and irritants. The only substance in the list of ecbolics that, as such, merits discussion is ergot. This is a drug that undoubtedly is capable of acting directly on the uterus; it has, however, but slender claims to be entitled an abortifacient. In the later months of pregnancy, when uterine action has once commenced, the administration of ergot induces powerful tonic contraction of the uterine musculature, whether, at the moment, natural contraction is in progress or is not; but if ergot is given for the purpose of initiating labour it will probably not be successful unless it pro- duces profound disturbance of the entire organism. In the early months of gestation (when criminal abortion is resorted to, the uterus at the time being passive) the adminis- tration of ergot is still less likely to induce uterine action, unless acute ergot-poisoning is produced ; and even then pregnant women have died from acute ergot-poisoning (the drug having been taken for the purpose of indvicing abortion) without abortion taking place. The symptoms of acute ergot-poisoning are : pain in the stomach, vomiting, a feeling of weight in the cardiac region, cramps, dyspnoea, numbness and tingling in the limbs, beginning at the fingers and toes, followed by extreme coldness, delirium, coma, and convulsions. Subcutaneous and submucous hsemorrhages, with the appearance of blood in the vomit and the motions, not unfrequently occur. The treatment is to empty the stomach and the bowels, unless the spontaneous evacuation has taken place. Stimulants and external warmth will be required. Inhalation of amyl nitrite or the administration of nitroglycerine by the mouth {yws to ^ grain) may be tried. Post-mortem Ax)pearances.—The surface may be somewhat jaundiced, and there may be subcutaneous hseraorrhages. Extravasation of blood may also be found internally, on the surface and into the substance of the viscera. The liver and kidneys are often pale and blood- less, and they show the presence of fatty changes, sometimes very advanced, so much so as to give rise to suspicion of phosphorus- poisoning. When ergot has been taken to pro- duce abortion, the foetus, on several occasions, has been found in the uterus after the death of the mother. As regards abortifacients generally, the inference to be drawn is that there is no known drug which will infallibly induce abortion with- out imperilling the life of the mother. Poisoning by Food-Stuffs Many food-stuffs may become poisonous owing to partial changes in their composition, caused by the action of micro-organisms; others are hurtful by reason of the unwonted excess of a normal constituent. Vegetable Foods which mat cause Poisoning Fungi (Mushi'oom-poisoning). Grain, especially rye (Ergotism). Vetch (Lathyrism). Maize (Pellagra). Potato. Fungi.—Many fungi are inherently poisonous in the same sense that hemlock is; others, without possessing any essential toxic principle, occasionally act as poisons. The only fungi eaten in England are the common mushroom (Agaricus campestris) and the champignon (Agaricus oreades). On the Continent many other varieties are used as food. Fungi, being of extremely rapid growth, quickly undergo changes after being gathered which may convert those of a harmless variety into poisonous bodies; consequently, only fresh fungi should be eaten. Mushrooms which have been cooked should not be eaten after having been put aside and warmed up again. The symptoms of fungi-poisoning are gastro- enteric and neurotic; usually both occur, with relatively varying intensity, in the same patient. Gastro-enteric symptoms may not appear for eight or ten hours, or more, after the fungi are eaten. A painful sensation develops in the stomach and abdomen, and the latter becomes hard and tender; then follow nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea; the motions may be serous, and may contain flakes of lymph and sometimes blood; the diarrhoea is often persistent. The other symptoms of irritant poisoning, tending to collapse, with occasionally jaundice, follow. Neurotic symptoms comprise muscular twitching, tetanic spasms, convulsions, delirium, disorders of vision, dilatations of the pupils, and coma. Sometimes the symptoms are exclusively neu- rotic ; more frequently they are associated with gastric symptoms. The fly-fungus {Amanita muscaria), so-called because it acts as a fly- poison, causes delirium, clonic spasms, dilated pupils and quick pulse ; in its mildest form the condition resembles that of alcoholic intoxica- tion. The active principle of this fungus (mus- carine) produces somewhat different symptoms, the assumption being that a second active principle, of antagonistic properties, is also present in the fungus. Amanita phalloides is another poisonous fungus, which, in addition to producing other symptoms, acts as a blood poison and causes fatty changes, especially in the liver, along with a hsemorrhagic tendency,