547 WRIST-JOINT INJURIES marked, fractures by tearing of the bone par arrachement, it is possible that there may be no change in the axis of the limb, no shorteniYig, no mobility between the fragments, no crepita- tion, and only pain and swelling around the wrist; in fine, all the symptoms of a sprain." i Here the author admits a group of injuries sufficiently common, in which impaction is absent or inappreciable—in which, too, crepitus and deformity are absent. If such cases be overlooked, as they too commonly are, the most extreme deformity establishes itself in a short time, as I have more than once observed. These facts are certainly inconsistent with the theory that deformity, the result of displacement, is solely due to impaction, and that muscular action takes no part in its production. In opposing Voillemier's views Smith falls into the opposite error, in almost absolutely denying the occurrence of impaction. He says: " I am inclined to believe that the doctrine of fracture with penetration is un- tenable." He says, indeed, in another pas- sage : " Until, therefore, the result of the examination of recent specimens can be adduced in support of the theory, I shall be inclined to believe that impaction is only apparent." The photograph (Fig. 4) of the specimen on which Professor Smith based his rejec- tion of Voillemier's theory of impaction shows the characters of a well-marked frac- ture, with displacement of the lower frag- ment, as in the group above referred to, re- cognisable at a simple glance, and without any penetration or impaction of the upper fragment into the lower. In such cases the lower fragment is displaced backwards, rotated on its own transverse axis back- wards, and the whole piece is moved to the radial side with displacement of the radial styloid towards the upper extremity of the radius (Fig. 3). The degree of each of these displacements, more or less present in each specimen, varies. In fractures caused by great violence, such as a fall from a high building, the backward displacement may pre- dominate, and the lower fragment may clear the upper; with it the hand and the wrist joint undergo extreme displacement, while the ulna, set free from its connection to the radius and hand alike, becomes dislocated through the in- teguments towards the inner border of the hand. In other specimens we see the rotation of the lower fragment backwards on its transverse axis, the salient feature of the specimen (Fig. 3, A). In some not very rare specimens the extremely limited development of all three displacements renders the deformity so small that even expert anatomical eyes may fail to appreciate it until close comparison is made with the macerated bone of the opposite side ' Clinique chirurgicale, par L. Voillemier, 1842. (Fig. 3, C). Such an oversight is made in a well-known osteological text-book,^ in which an united Colles' fracture, with the minimum de- formity, is represented as the normal bone. In such specimens the displacement most constant in its development is that of the radial styloid towards the upper end of the bone. This fact is of great importance clinically, because the altered relation of the radial styloid renders the line drawn from it to the ulnar styloid less oblique than in the uninjured limb, and by the appreciation of this change the diagnosis may be made certain in the living, in cases the description of which I have quoted above from Fig. 2. Voillemier's paper, in which the most evident features of deformity are absent. In discussing the subject of impaction, Voil- lemier puts in the forefront of his argument the constancy of the three lines of compact tissue seen in the antero-posterior section of united fractures (Fig. 4). He admits four possible modes of impaction : 1. The penetra- tion of both walls of the upper fragment into the tissue of the lower without its being burst asunder; 2. The same mode of penetration, with crushing of the lower fragment—Dupuy- tren's fracture par ecrasement; 3. The bending or hinging, so to speak, of the anterior walls, with impaction of the upper into the lower fragment posteriorly; 4. The reciprocal pene- ' Holden, Human Osteology, Qth ed., p. 56.