479 VISCERAL PAIN muscle tenderness, and cutaneous hypersesthesia accompany acute enlargement of the liver due to heart failure. But I could not convince my- self that the symptoms may not have been due to the sudden stretching of the capsule, just as in acute orchitis the pain, local and referred, may be due to the stretching of the tunica vaginalis. In ovarian affections great caution has to be exercised in demonstrating the symptoms present. A widespread hypersesthesia, some- times of a purely hysterical nature, is so liable to occur that no safe deduction can usually be drawn. I may, however, point out that ovarian tenderness is often described because of the pain felt on pressure being applied " over the ovaries " in the iliac region. If one studies the position of the ovaries in the pelvis it will be recognised that pressure applied here is not likely to directly affect the ovaries. In ovarian disease pain and hypersesthesia are often present in the iliac region, and the application of pressure here calls forth the pain because it is the hyper- sesthetic tissues that are being pressed upon. It often happens that the muscles here are slightly contracted as well as tender, and this tenderness is not infrequently assumed to be due to inflammatory adhesion. The only instance where I have found what seems to be pain due to stimulation of an organ is on applying pressure to the testicle. In some cases of long pendant testicles the local and referred pain can be very instructively illustrated. Thus a man who in his employ- ment had to lift heavy weights, complained of aching in the groin and down the inside of the thighs, particularly on the right side, had a long scrotum with the testicles at the bottom. The right testicle was small and sensitive, and on applying pressure he felt at once pain in the testicle, and then a few seconds after he groaned as if in great pain and said he felt another pain come on in the groin and down the inside of the thigh. The first pain is evidently due to stimulation of the genital branch of the genito- crural nerve, as it supplies the tunica vaginalis ; the second is a referred pain due to the stimu- lation passing by the sympathetic to the centre of the first lumbar nerve in the spinal cord producing the pain in the region of the distri- bution of that nerve. This latter pain was not only delayed, but gradually grew in intensity and gradually subsided, and was accompanied by the peculiar sensation of depression charac- teristic of visceral pain. XIV. Outline op Theory concerning the Relationship op the Sympathetic System to THE Cerebro-spinal. — The view expressed above implies that the functions of the cerebro- spinal system of nerves and of the organs supplied by these nerves are primarily for the defence and protection of the organs necessary for the maintenance of life. The joining to- gether of the muscles and nerves in the visceral and cutaneous muscular reflexes is evidently purposed for the protection of the economy. This view of the matter further suggests a theory of development which explains the reason for the division of pains into local and referred. In the lowest scale of animal life digestion is the principal function, and in the early stages of evolution a digestive cavity is the first semblance of an organ to appear. This is followed by a rudimentary circulatory system to carry the digested fluid to the diff"erent regions of the body. After this comes a respiratory system to purify the blood. These various organs are co-ordinated by a rudimentary system of nerves which are mani- festly the antecedents of the sympathetic system. So far the external body wall is not differentiated, but is mainly a protective en- casement. In further development this cover- ing gives place to contractile and sensitive structures, so that the economy is protected from external injuries by a sensitive covering which, on painful stimulation, causes reflex action of certain muscles, and the animal is thereby removed from the offending neighbour- hood. Herbert Spencer elaborates a similar idea to account for the vertebral segmentation. The nervous supply of the protective covering and that of the viscera are co-ordinated in the cerebro-spinal nervous system. The view that the sympathetic nerve system originates independently of the cerebro-spinal system is supported by other considerations. It may be accepted as an established dictum that the more recently evolved structures are more liable to change and to disease. The period of mental growth in the human being, for instance, as well as the gradual acquisition of faculties, as speech and dexterity in manual acts, point to an increase in the functions of the brain and spinal cord, whereas the functions of the sympathetic system are as efficiently performed at birth as during later life. It is a matter of common experience that disease is extremely frequent in the cerebro- spinal system, with a tendency to aff"ect the most recently acquired functions, whereas disease of the sympathetic system is of rare occurrence. The same distinction between the two systems is seen in their susceptibility to the influence of drugs. In the administration of chloroform the higher intellectual centres are the first to be affected, and after the loss of consciousness follows the abolition of sensation and muscular movement. A distinct interval elapses before the next symptom appears, which is the invasion of the sympathetic system, and is shown by the gradual abolition of respiration. Following on this comes the abolition of the functions of the heart. This view of the independence of the sym-