269 URINATION, DISORDERS OF may be enormously distended and contain several pints of urine. It is a wise rule in these cases not to withdraw the whole of the urine at one operation. By so doing the risk of the occur- rence of bleeding from the vessels of the bladder wall, which have been suddenly relieved of their strain, is minimised. The treatment of ordinary cases of retention is the treatment of the dis- ease causing it. A catheter of appropriate size and kind should be used. Among other re- medies mention should be made of—(a) the use of a hip-bath at a temperatui-e of 100° to 110° F., {h) hot fomentations over the pubic region, (c) the use of active purgative medicines, and {d) the use of morphia as a temporary measure. If opium be used it should be used in full doses. Anuria.—Absence of urination may be due to suppression, or it may mean that the ureter of a working kidney has become completely blocked, while the other kidney has from some cause been thrown out of action. The nature of the injury, or the character of the disease causing this, varies greatly. They may be classified as follows (Newman):— 1. Reflex inhibition of the functions of the opposite healthy kidney. 2. Impaction of a stone at a previous date, followed by hydronephrosis or atrophy of the kidney on the opposite side to the one recently attacked. 3. Other unilateral disease of the kidney, such as tuberculous nephritis, pyonephrosis, or congenital absence of one kidney. 4. Bilateral disease of the kidneys, including the various forms of Bright's disease, cystic de- generation, etc. The diagnosis of these conditions is established from—(a) the history of the case, (6) careful bimanual examination of the region of the kidneys, and (c) the presence of ursemic or other symptoms indicating a severe toxic poisoning. Urine, Pathologrical Chang^es in. i. Introductory .... 270 ii. General Properties— Quantity, Specific Gravity, Freez- ing-Point, Reaction, Toxicity, etc 271 iii. Inorganic Constituents— Chlorides, Sulphates, Phosphates, Metals, Ammonia . . .275 iv. Oxaluria 278 V. Proteids in Urine— Albuminuria, Albumosuria, etc. . 279 vi. The Chief Nitrogenous Con- stituents— Total Nitrogen, Urea, Uric Acid, Xanthin Bases, Kreatinine . 285 vii. Some Abnormal Nitrogenous Con- stituents— Diamines, Leucin and Tyrosin . 288 viii. Sugars in Urine— Glucose, Lactose, Pentose . 289 ix. The Acetone Group— Acetone, Aceto-Acetic Acid, fi Oxy- butyric Acid .... 291 X. Aromatic Substances— Ethereal Sulphates and Glycuro- nates, Indicanwria, Alkapton- uria ..... 293 xi. Neutral Sulphur— Hydrothionuria, Cystinuria 294 xii. LiPURIA— Chyluria, Cholesterin in Urine . 295 xiii. Pigments— Including Melanuria 296 xiv. Bile-Pigment and Acids 298 XV. Pnbumaturia .... 299 xvi. Urinary Sediments 299 xvii. Urinary Calculi 304 xviii. Drugs, Poisons, and Accidental Constituents of Urine 306 See also Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis of ; Acromegaly {Symptoms, Urine); Adrenal Glands {Physiology, Effect on Renal Secretion); Alcoholism {Chronic, Symptoms, Incontinence of Urine); Anemia, Pernicious {Symptoms, Urine); Blackwater Fever ; Bladder, Injuries AND Diseases of ; Brain, Tumours of {Localis- ing Symptoms, Urine); Catheters, Uses and Dangers of ; Children, Clinical Examination of {Urine); Cholera, Epidemic {Symptoms, Urine, Suppression); Chorea {Symptoms, Incon- tinence of Urine); Cryoscopy ; Diabetes In- sipidus; Diabetes Mellitus ; Diphtheria (-4sso- ciated Symptoms, Albuminuria); Diuretics ; ZYKEs {Urinary); Erysipelas {Clinical Fea- tures, Urine); Filariasis {Chyluria); Gout {Urine in Gout); Groin {Anatomy, Extravasa- tion of Urine) ; H^ematuria ; H^matoporphy- rinuria; H/emoglobinuria; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Symptomatology, Kidneys); Hydatid Disease {Echinococci of Urinary Sys- tem) ; Hysteria {Disorders of General Nutrition, Urinary Forinula); Hysteria, Surgical As- pects OF {Retention of Urine); Jaundice {Symp- toms, Urine); Kidney, Physiology of ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of; Leucocyth^mia {Symp- toms, Characters of Urine); Liver, Diseases of {Acute Yellow Atrophy, Urine); Liver, Diseases OF {Cirrhosis, Characters of Urine); Liver {Hyperemia, Symptoms, Urine); IiIVER {Tropical Abscess, Symptoms, Urine); Liver {Hydatids, Ruptureinto Urinary Passages); Malaria {Clini- cal Manifestations, Urine in); Malingering {Genito - Urinary); Meningitis, Tuberculous {Symptoms, Retention of Urine); Micturition ; Morphinomania {Diagnosis, Urine); Nephritis ; Nose, Post-Nasal Adenoid Growths {Symptoms, Nocturnal Incontinence of Urine); Parasites {Helminths, Bilharzia) ; Physiology, Excretion (Urine); PoNOS {Odour of Urine in); Pregnancy, Physiology op {Changes in Urine); Prostate