399 VACCINATION central or the local authorities." ^ The problem is how to get the greatest amount of motive power from each of the two, with the smallest amount of waste through friction. Perhaps it would conduce to success to leave to the central authority the duty of dealing with all the determined opponents of vaccination, of deciding when to prosecute or not, and to limit the work of the local authority to the duty of malcing the provisions of the Vaccination Act known to the large part of the population who are prepared to obey the law when it is authoritatively pre- sented to them. What is aimed at is not the punishment, or even the better education of the determined enemies of vaccination, but the pre- vention of epidemic smallpox. The question to be asked is. Can the vaccination law and its administration be so far improved that epidemics of smallpox shall not occur in the United King- dom in spite of frequent reintroduction of the contagion from other countries ? It is absolutely certain that such reintroduction of contagion will frequently occur. In Liverpool, for instance, from 6th December 1901 to 19th February 1902, 30 cases of smallpox were imported by sea or land. In the first ten months of 1901, 8 separate cases of smallpox reached Liverpool by sea, and 1 by land. Glasgow is in a similar position. Importation of the disease is sure to be very frequent in London. How can the population at the ports and in large centres such as London be made as immune to infection as the German population is in the frontier districts adjacent to badly vaccinated countries, e.g. Russia and, up to the present time, France? Unless the presence of contagion can be avoided, the only way to prevent an epidemic is to have the population that is exposed to the contagion immune at the time of exposure. It is not enough to try to make all exposed persons immune some days after the risk of infection has been run. If revaccination were the rule here, as it is in the German Empire, we could face the continual risk of the reintroduction of smallpox from other countries without any fear of epidemics. Can the vaccination law or its administration be still further improved towards this end? The Act of 1898 could, we think, be materi- ally improved in four ways. 1. The administration of the Vaccination Act should be put into the hands of the local authority responsible for Public Health. At present it is worked by the Poor Law Guardians, who are not rarely elected expressly to defy the Act. They have been able till lately to appoint vaccination officers pledged to their employers not to carry out the Act. Liskeard, for instance, appointed as vaccination officer a man who had refused to have his own children vaccinated. The Local Government Board, however, did not 1 National Hevieio, March 1902,—" Smallpox." Dr. Francis T. Bond, M.D. (Lond.). sanction the appointment. At Leicester the Guardians declined to have a vaccination officer at all, but it also had in the end to submit to the Board. It is a misfortune that the admin- istration of the vaccination law is in the hands of the Guardians. It belongs pi-operly not to poor relief but to public health. At present the vaccination officer is selected by the Guardians ; but his duty is to carry out the law to the satisfaction, not of his immediate em- ployers, but of the Local Government Board. Even when the Guardians wish him to do as little as possible, it is his duty to put pressure upon defaulting or negligent parents to obey the law and to have their children vaccinated. He may do that which his employers prefer, or he may prosecute defaulters and obtain legal assist- ance and send in the costs to the Guardians. It is not likely that, under such an arrange- ment, many vaccination officers will be as active as they might be. If the administration of the Vaccination Act were put under the authority responsible for Public Health the difficulty in the way of administering the Act would be much diminished. The control of smallpox (apart from vaccination) belongs now to the sanitary authority. It has to meet all the difficulties which an epidemic of smallpox entails; no other body has the same direct interest in preventing an epidemic, and yet the one thing which can prevent it, viz., vaccination, is worked by another body, the members of which are sometimes pledged to do all they can to stultify the law. Even in a community such as Liverpool, where the Guardians do their utmost in support of vaccination, and where, in a population of nearly 700,000 people, only 26 certificates were given in 1900 to conscientious objectors, the present system works badly. The medical officer of health. Dr. Hope, shows in his report for 1901, that delay often occurs precisely at the moment when time is of the utmost value, by the health officer being unable himself to make arrange- ments for the immediate revaccination of "con- tacts" in the presence of a case of smallpox. He has to communicate with the officers of another body, and much precious time is lost. 2. Revaccination at school age should be made obligatory, subject to the conscientious objector clause as in primary vaccination. It is to systematic revaccination at about twelve years of age that Germany owes her freedom from epidemic smallpox, and there can be no security against the frequent recurrence of such epidemics in Great Britain and Ireland till re- vaccination is made the rule by legal enactment. 3. An adequate supply of trustworthy lymph should be provided from Government labora- tories, and private practitioners should be able to buy it. The provision of enough lymph would be greatly aided by systematic revaccina- tion at school age. A definite amount of lymph would be wanted month by month, very little