99 TRADES, DANGEROUS hands, however, may also become affected. The arsenic reduction workers in Cornwall suffer from bronchitis and pulmonary diseases in excess of men in the same locality following other occupations. The arsenic powder, too, gets under their clothing and causes eczema. In deference to public opinion, manufacturers have lately discontinued the use of arsenic as a colouring agent for wall-papers, other sub- stitutes having been found. Workers in arsenic cannot pay too much attention to personal cleanliness. Copper and Brass—-Brass-Founders' Ague The copper ore smelted in this country is known as copper pyrites. As this often contains arsenic, serious symptoms of poisoning have occurred in smelters, probably due to the arsenic. Birmingham is the centre of the brass trade. Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc. In the fusion of these metals, and particularly during the pouring of the same when molten, the workmen have been known to suffer from a peculiar set of symptoms to which the name of "brass-founders' ague" has been given. During the pouring of the molten brass into moulds, dense white clouds of smoke arise and fill the interior of the casting-shop. From these clouds a delicate white powder gently falls, and this, on analysis, has been found to be oxide of zinc. As far back as 1862 Dr. Headlam Greenhow read a paper at a meeting of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society on Brass- Founders' Ague. It is now admitted that this name is misleading. Since Greenhow's time the subject has attracted the attention of Hogben, and more recently has been dealt with by Drs. Robert M. Simon and Murray of Birmingham. Opinions are divided as to whether the so-called ague symptoms are due to the copper or the zinc in the brass. It is usually when the operatives are fresh to the work, or when the men have been absent for a time, that they suffer. The symptoms are languor, depression of spirits, and a feeling of chilliness. The individual becomes pale and he has a shivering. His teeth chatter, and his face is seen to be wet with a cold perspiration. There are headache, nausea, and muscular pains. Vomiting occurs, and this is followed by a sense of relief, after which the patient often falls into a comfortable sleep from which he awakes, feel- ing well, though tired and weak. Both Green- how and Hogben described a hot and sweating stage as succeeding the one just mentioned. Simon has never met with these. He therefore thinks that the term ague should be discarded altogether. In brass-workers the teeth are often green, and the gums blackened at their edges. The white hair of the older workmen is usually coloured green. As a rule the symptoms detailed above are transitory. In addition to the so-called ague many of the men suffer from bronchitis and fibroid phthisis. Brass-casters, too, are often the subjects of nervous disorders not unlike paralysis agitans. Dyspeptic symptoms are common. There are loss of appetite and gastro-intestinal catarrh; complaint of a metallic taste in the mouth, vomiting, and either constipation or diarrhoea. The men often become nervous and hypochon- driacal, or they complain of headache and obscure muscular pains. A similar train of symptoms is known to occur in copper-poisoning. Stephenson says it is impossible to say whether the symptoms in brass-workers are due to zinc or copper. Greenhow attributes them to de- flagrating zinc, while Hogben blames the copper. It is difficult to say which of the two metals is the cause of the symptoms. Zinc is not toxic to any extent by itself, and copper, although usually considered poisonous, is much less so than hitherto believed. Metallic copper is not at all dangerous, and copper oxide is only so in very large doses. It is just possible that the fumes given off from the molten brass are poisonous owing to some peculiar and unex- plained condition in existence at the time, and therefore due to the combination of the two metals. Simon holds that the ague-like symp- toms are probably caused by this admixture, while the more chronic complaints he attributes to the copper. Milk has been proved by experience to be the best preventive of brass-poisoning, and by many it is also regarded as an antidote. The work- men resort to it on their own account. As a rule these men do not call in medical assistance for the ague. The workrooms ought to be well ventilated, so that the fumes of the molten metal may escape. It is during heavy, foggy weather, when it is difficult to clear the air of the workshops, that symptoms among brass- workers are most prone to occur. The Textile Trades Cotton In the manufacture of cotton the operatives incur no special risks other than those due to working in ill-ventilated rooms, and where machinery is running at high speed. For trade purposes it was found necessary to introduce moisture into the air of the workrooms in cotton factories, and as this has been carried on fre- quently in excess of manufacturing require- ments, the operatives have suffered in their health. It is in the weaving-sheds where this artificial humidity is especially needed. Raw cotton as seen in the bales is often dirty and dusty. It has therefore to be cleaned and combed. In the process of carding or combing of the raw material a considerable amount of dust is given off, while in the spinning rooms, owing to the outside air being excluded so as to keep the yarn clean, and in consequence, too, of the rapid rate at which the machinery is run,