429 VENEREAL DISEASE lated with syphilis. It is unwise, therefore, to make the diagnosis too absolute until lapse of time has rendered it quite certain that the patient has not got syphilis. Herpes progenitalis, or prseputialis, when it occurs in men, is very likely to be mistaken for soft sores if the vesicles have become inoculated with pyogenic organisms. The condition of herpes occurs both in men and women : the eruption is vesicular at first, and is often uni- lateral or in accordance with the nerve distribu- tion. Dr. R. W. Taylor lays particular stress upon the fact that chancrous erosions assume a round or oval outline, while herpes has a poly- cyclic form with festooned margins, due to the fusion of groups of vesicles, a polycylic outline being that which is presented by two pieces of three-leaf clover placed base to base. Bacterio- logical examination of the secretion from the inflamed surface will assist the diagnosis in difl&cult cases; but as a rule the sensations of heat, itching, and burning, the superficial char- acter of the lesion, its less profuse secretion, the scarcely undermined edges, and the tendency to relapse, will distinguish the eruption of herpes from soft sores. Balanitis is an inflammation of the mucous membrane of the prepuce or glans penis. It is often associated with soft sores, though it may occur quite independently. The diagnosis can often only be made after the prepuce has been incised, and the soft sores are laid open to view. Gummatous ulceration is to be distinguished from soft sores partly by the slower course which it runs, partly by the history, and partly by the diff'erence in the glandvilar enlai-gement, for in soft sores buboes are formed, whilst in gummatous ulceration there is less tendency for the glands to suppurate. Tuberculous ulceration of the penis or vulva can only be distinguished from soft sores by a thorough bacteriological examination, which should include more than one inoculation of the suspected tissue. The patient often shows other signs of active tuberculosis, and the tuberculous inflammation runs a slower course than that due to chancroids. Complications. — Buboes, phimosis, paraphi- mosis, gangrene, sloughing, and phagedaena are the more important complications attending the inoculation of chancroidal pus. Buboes are enlargements of the superficial inguinal glands, which lie horizontally along Poupart's ligament; the more numerous glands grouped vertically over the upper part of the internal saphenous vein are not so often affected. The inflammation varies from a slight lympha- denitis, which shows no tendency to suppurate, to a virulent inflammation which spreads with alarming rapidity, and may cause ulceration of the femoral vessels. Buboes are seen more frequently in hospital than in private practice, so that carelessness and want of rest are pre- disposing factors. The nature of the infection, too, bears some relation to buboes, for the worst forms are not necessarily associated with the most angry sores. The bacteriology has not yet been worked out fully, but the specific strepto-bacillus has been found in the abscess wall of the glands, as well as in glands which have not yet suppurated. Some buboes, on the other hand, have been found to be free from Ducrey's bacillus though they were due to soft sores. The symptoms of a bubo are those of an ordinary infective lymphadenitis. A tender swelling, which at first is movable, occupies the position of a lymphatic gland. The swelling soon becomes fixed, and the overlying skin shows signs of inflammation. Treatment.—Rest in bed, with the application of fomentations of boric acid (20 grains to the ounce), will often allay the glandular inflam- mation if it be seen early, especially if this treatment be supplemented with a calomel purge, followed by a course of quinine and iron. In three cases, when the soft sores had been cured and the glands were on the point of suppuration, whilst the patient was unusually anxious to avoid the inconvenience of a pro- longed healing, I have consented to dissect out the affected glands by a formal operation. The end justified the means in every case, for healing took place by first intention, and the patient has been repaid for his fortnight in bed. Such cases, however, must be chosen with care, and are useless if the chancroid is uncured. The more usual treatment consists in carrying an incision into the suppurating gland parallel with the femoral vessels, i.e. at right angles to Poupart's ligament. The pus is allowed to escape, and the remains of the gland should then be scraped away with a sharp spoon, the cavity being swabbed out with a solution of chloride of zinc (40 grains to the ounce) and afterwards irrigated with a saturated solution of boric acid at a temperature of 110° F. The cavity is then lightly plugged with iodoform gauze, and is allowed to heal from the bottom. It is often advisable to order a patient to take prolonged warm baths in cases where there is extensive destruction of the skin in connection with the buboes, and it may be necessary to employ various escharotics to arrest the ulcera- tive process when it is found to be spreading rapidly. It should be borne in mind, however, that the rapid extension of the ulceration is due to the multiplication of micro-organisms in a favourable medium, and that no escharotic acts far from its point of application. The general condition of the patient, therefore, must be improved, and the diseased tissue should be thoroughly scraped away before the nitric acid, formalin, carbolic acid, or nitrate of silver is applied.