60 TOXICOLOGY vulcanised rubber, solderers, type-founders, and lead pipe-makers, comprise only a selection of the artificers who handle lead. Apart from trade risks there are countless channels by which lead may find its way into the system; snuff, tobacco, and certain kinds of sweets are frequently enveloped in so-called tin-foil, into the composition of which lead largely enters; beer is often drawn from the cask through leaden pipes ; tinned fruits may be contaminated with lead which the acid of the fruit dissolves out of the solder; hair dyes are frequently composed of solutions of lead salts ; the glaze of many earthenware vessels, and that of so-called enamelled iron-ware, readily yields lead to any acid substances, such as rhubarb, that are stewed in them. The most prolific source of dietetic lead poisoning is drinking-water. Not- withstanding the well-nigh universal knowledge of the risk which attends the introduction of lead into the system, the use of lead cisterns and pipes for the storage and conveyance of drinking-water is still common. New lead pipes are more dangerous than old ones, which gradually become protected with an insoluble coating of basic lead carbonate. The presence of carbonic acid, chlorides, nitrates, and nitrites in the water increases its solvent action on lead. Peaty water, and water containing other organic matter, is especially prone to dissolve lead ; the action of bacteria on organic matter tends to the formation of nitrates and nitrites. The amount of lead in drinking- water need only be very small in order to cause chronic poisoning; of a grain per gallon is sufficient. S?/mptoms.~Djs,peTpt\c troubles, with loss of appetite, offensive breath, and unwonted con- stipation, are the earliest symptoms. Then follows anaemia, the skin acquiring a sallow, unhealthy appearance. Probably at this period a blue line will be found at the margin of the gums, due to the deposition of particles of lead sulphide in the papillte of the inucous membrane. Small quantities of sulphur-containing food cling to the teeth, and, undergoing slow decomposition, give off sulphuretted hydrogen, which combines with the lead that is in a state of solution in the gums. Where the teeth are absent there is no blue line. The blue line may exist without any other symptom of plumbism, which, on the other hand, may be present, although no blue line is visible. At this period the patient will probably be thinner than usual owing to the disturbance of nutrition. The next symptom which usually occurs is colic as a rule, radiating from the umbilicus over the abdomen, the muscles of which are retracted and tense. It is often intermittent, with constant heavy pain between the attacks. It is relieved by pressure, except when it is extremely violent, and then the abdomen is tender and intolerant of pressure; in such cases, especially in young women, the patient rolls about the bed with contortions that might be mistaken for an hysterical seizure. During the attacks the pulse is slow and of high tension, there is little or no elevation of temperature ; the bowels are usually obstinately confined, but occasionally they are rather re- laxed. Deep-seated pain of a boring kind, most frequently about the knees, but sometimes affecting the elbows and shoulders, often occurs, to which the name arthralgia is given. After colic, one of the commonest symptoms of chronic lead poisoning is paralysis of the extensor muscles of the hands and fingers, producing " wrist drop"; the supinator longus usually escapes, and, as the affected muscles undergo atrophy, this muscle stands out in marked con- trast to those that are wasted. When a patient suffering from wrist drop holds out his arms horizontally before him, with the palms down- wards, the hands drop and cannot be raised, hence the name " wrist drop." Exceptionally the paralysis begins in the muscles of the upper arm, the deltoid, biceps, and coraco-brachialis being affected, and in this—the upper-arm type —the supinator longus is attacked. In each type both arms suffer, though one may be more affected than the other. The legs are not usually attacked, and never until the arms have been affected for some time; the extensors of the foot are the first to suffer; the tibialis anticus, like the supinator longus, usually escapes. In exceptionally bad cases the par- alysis may spread to the muscles of respiration and deglutition. The characteristics of lead paralysis are: little if any disturbance of the sensory fibres, with the exception of occasional localised patches of anaesthesia, together with extreme atrophy of the affected muscles, the paralysis in ordinary cases being limited to the extensor muscles of the fore-arm. In the course of chronic plumbism psychical disturbances may manifest themselves; sleep- lessness, drowsiness, excitability, with hallucina- tions and wild delirium, may occur. Epilepti- form convulsions are not uncommon, especially in women; sometimes they come on unex- pectedly in the early stage of plumbism, before the commoner symptoms develop; more fre- quently they occur later in the course of the disease. They may be repeated at intervals for days, the patient remaining unconscious for a considerable time after each attack. Con- vulsions in lead poisoning are of serious import; they frequently portend a fatal result. In rare cases anomalous nerve symptoms may super- vene—as general paralysis, ataxia, with girdle- sensation and loss of muscular co-ordination, probably due to neuritis, with possibly some changes in the cord ; and, as observed by Oliver, a condition which closely resembled bulbar paralysis. Optic neuritis may occur as a con- sequence of plumbism; it may produce no noticeable impairment of vision, or it may lead