297 URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN which is readily converted, by oxidation, into the formed pigment. Urines rich in urobilin, and in which the colour of this substance is not obscured by other pigments, exhibit a peculiarly rich orange tint, and when examined in a conical glass show a tinge of pink near the apex of the cone. When examined with the spectroscope they show a broad and intense absorption band near the F line, which becomes broader and darker as deeper layers of urine are examined. Urobilin is precipitated by saturating the urine with ammonium sulphate, and solutions of the pig- ment in alkalies yield a brilliant green fluores- cence, and a shifting of the band towards the red, on the addition of zinc chloride. This is best seen when alcoholic solutions are employed. For clinical purposes the direct spectroscopic examination of thin layers of urine will usually suffice for its detection, but when the violet end of the spectrum is much obscured by other pig- ments it may be necessary to precipitate it in the manner referred to, or to extract it with amylic alcohol, after the addition of a small quantity of acetic acid to the urine. The amylic extract may show the bands of hsematoporphyrin and of uroerythrin in addition to that of urobilin. The evidence forthcoming points to the forma- tion of urobilin in the alimentary canal by the action of micro-organisms upon the bile-pigment, for it can be shown that when bile ceases to enter the alimentary canal urobilin is no longer formed, and that it disappears from the urine as well as from the faeces, in which latter it is normally present in far larger amounts, mostly in the form of chromogen. There are, on the other hand, some observations recorded which make one hesitate to assert too positively that urobilin never has a more direct origin from the blood-pigment. If the above view be correct, it is obvious that an increase of urobilin in the urine may be indirectly due to increased htemolysis, the abnormal destruction of haemoglobin being followed by an increased output of bilirubin, the material from which urobilin is formed. Variations in the excretion may also be due to increased activity of the bacterial processes in the intestine, to the rate of passage of the intestinal contents along the canal, and to such conditions as altered reaction of the contents, and the relative amounts of bilirubin and bili- verdin in the bile. Thus the conditions which determine an in- creased or diminished output of urobilin are complex, and often difficult to unravel, and it is easy to understand why, in spite of the large amount of research which has been expended upon this subject, the results afford so little that is of real clinical value. This much is certain, that when a urine shows a conspicuous urobilin band there is some distinct deviation from the normal. Nor is the occurrence of urobilinuria in connection with active haemolysis open to doubt, as witness its occurrence in connection with pernicious anaemia, and with the absorption of large quantities of extravasated blood. In diseases of the liver there is usually per- sistent urobilinuria, a fact which raises the chief difficulty in connection with the theory of its intestinal origin. It has been suggested that the diseased liver loses a power which it other- wise possesses of destroying a large proportion of the urobilin absorbed from the intestine, or, on the other hand, that the hepatic disease affects the quality of the bile and the readiness with which the contained pigment is converted into urobilin. In many febrile conditions also there is a conspicuously increased excretion of urobilin and its chromogen. When the common bile-duct is completely obstructed urobilin and its chromogen disappear from the urine, and the practically complete absence of this pigment from the faeces in such cases affords very valuable evidence of such occlusion. Thus in two cases of equally intense jaundice the fact that the duct is completely occluded in the one and not in the other may be readily ascertained by this means. However, a trace of urobilin usually persists in the faeces, which trace is probably formed from bilirubin which makes its way through the intestinal walls. Diseases of the kidneys often lead to diminu- tion or absence of urobilin from the urine, probably as the result of diminished permea- bility of these organs. Uroerythrin.—The presence of this pigment is easily recognised when urate sediments are thrown down, and many of the palest of such sediments show the characteristic pink tint when filtered off. The most intensely pink sediments are met with in connection with disorders of the liver, such as cirrhosis, and in the passive congestion secondary to heart dis- ease. Uroerythrin is also excreted in compara- tively large quantities in certain febrile disorders such as acute rheumatism and pneumonia, and also in gout. In typhoid fever, on the other hand, this is not usually the case. If, as seems highly probable, the excretion of uroerythrin is always indicative of hepatic dis- order, it is clear that not only actual disease of the liver but even very slight functional disturb- ances, such as may result from indiscretions of diet, or may attend upon attacks of dyspepsia, are sufficient to cause it to appear even in the urine of apparently healthy persons. It may be mentioned that in cases of cirrhosis Riva has observed a marked diminution in the output of uroerythrin when the patients were put upon a milk diet. The pink colour of urate sediments when present, and the dark absorption band near the