12 THYROID GLAND, MEDICAL SECTION Ocular Symptoms.—Several different ocular symptoms occur either singly or in association, so that it will be convenient to consider them all together, though some might equally well be described along with the nervous symptoms. Ejcophthalmos.—This when present is natur- ally the most conspicuous symptom of all, and consequently is all the more distressing to the patient. It generally comes on gradually, and is present in some 80 per cent of cases. The amount of exophthalmos varies considerably from a slight staring expression to so great prominence of the eyeballs that the sclerotic is clearly visible both above and below the margin of the cornea, and the eyelids cannot be closed. Sometimes the exoplithalmos is more marked on one side than the other, or it may in rare cases be unilateral. In about one-fifth of the cases there is no exophthalmos. Even in the same case the prominence of the eyeball may vary in degree, from time to time, along with the other symptoms. Conjunctivitis is fre- quently present. Von Graefe^s Symptom.—When this is present there is defective descent of the upper eyelids when the patient looks downwards. Thus when the eyes are kept fixed on the finger during a rapid downward movement the upper lid lags behind, so that the downward rotation of the eyeballs brings the sclerotic within view between the upper lid and the margin of the cornea. Stellwag's Sign.—In some cases there is re- traction of the upper eyelid, due to increased tonic contraction of the elevator of the eyelid. This increases the width of the palpebral fissure already widened by the exophthalmos; it may, however, occur when the latter symptom is absent. In addition to these symptoms there is sometimes weakness of convergence, so that when the eyes are fixed on an object which is gradually brought closer to them, they at first converge naturally until a point is reached at which they suddenly become parallel again, only one eye remaining fixed on the object. The actual distance at which this occurs varies in different cases, and in the same case at different times. A general weakness of the external muscles of the eyeball is not uncommon, and there may be diplopia on looking upwards, or downwards, or to the extreme right or left. Sometimes there is actual paralysis of one or more of the muscles. Complete ophthalmoplegia externa with ptosis is rare, though I have one case in a man under observation in which, although the other symp- toms of the disease have to a large extent sub- sided, there is almost complete immobility of the eyeballs with double ptosis. Vision, as a rule, is unaffected, and the reactions of the pupil are normal. Circulatory System. — An increase in the frequency of the contractions of the heart is a constant symptom of exophthalmic goitre; in fact the condition of the circulatory system closely resembles that of a man who has just taken violent exercise when out of training, or who is experiencing some powerful emotion. This increased frequency of the pulse may come on gradually, or may at first occur only for short periods at a time, becoming constant at a later stage. Palpitation is often complained of early, and may be the first symptom noticed by the patient. The pulse-rate may vary from 90 to 100 in mild cases, though in cases of moderate severity it is usually 120. In more severe cases the pulse may be 140 or even 160. The heart is very irritable, so that with slight exertion or excitement the pulse-rate may be increased by 20 or 30 beats a minute. In some cases, even when lying in bed, there are occa- sional paroxysmal attacks of violent palpitation which come without any apparent reason, during which the skin is generally flushed and perspires freely. During one of these attacks I have counted as many as 200 heart-beats in a minute. The radial pulse is usually regular, but rather small and compressible. There is generally strong pulsation in the carotid arteries, often in the abdominal aorta, and even in the retinal arteries as well. The area and force of the cardiac impulse are both increased, and the apex beat, especially in cases of some duration, is frequently in the left nipple line or even outside it. Both heart sounds are loud, and there may be some blurring of the first. In many cases a soft systolic murmur is audible at the apex, especially when there is dilatation of the left ventricle with secondary mitral incompetence. A soft systolic murmur is also often to be heard at the base. In several of my cases there has been a peculiarly rough, loud systolic murmur over the pulmonary area, so rough in one or two of them as to resemble pericardial friction rather than an endocardial murmur. Nervous System.—Various nervous symptoms may occur in exophthalmic goitre, general nervousness and tremor being the most common. General Nervousness and Mental Condition.—- In nearly all cases there is a peculiar condition of nervousness. In severe cases this is shown by great restlessness, the patient fidgets about when sitting on a ciiair, the attitude and the position of the limbs being changed every few seconds. In other less severe cases the restless- ness may be less marked, but the patient is agitated by trifling events, such as seeing a stranger, the tremor being exaggerated and the pulse-rate increased. Such patients complain that they are unduly worried by domestic cares, and are apt to be irritable upon very slight provocation with those with whom they live. Not infrequently much time and care is ex- pended upon some trifling object, while there