UTERUS, DISPLACEMENTS OF THE 336 (c) Panhystero - colpectomy. — This operation has been performed by several operators with good results. The method described by C. Martin of Birmingham is excellent, and we here give his description of it:— " (1) The patient was anaesthetised and placed in the lithotomy position, and the vulva, cervix, and vagina (which was completely turned inside out) rendered aseptic. " (2) The cervix was seized with volsella and drawn forward, and an incision made through the vaginal mucous membrane from the posterior lip of the cervix to the edge of the perineum. From the latter point two curved incisions were carried forward, one on either side at the junction of the vaginal mucous membrane and the skin of the labia meeting in front about three-quarters of an inch behind the meatus urinarius, that is, near the posterior edge of the vestibule. It will be seen that these incisions encircled the ostium vaginse. " (3) The mucous membrane of the posterior vaginal wall was dissected off with scissors and turned forward ; but at this stage the mucous membrane of the anterior vaginal wall was not interfered with. " (4) The peritoneum of the pouch of Douglas was next opened by a transverse incision, and the uterine fundus exposed and drawn down. The broad ligaments were ligatured and divided from above downwards outside the ovaries and tubes. " (5) The peritoneum between the bladder and uterus was divided transversely, and the bladder stripped off the cervix and upper part of the vaginal wall with the finger. " (6) The mucous membrane of the anterior vaginal wall was next dissected off the bladder with scissors, and the uterus, ovaries, and tubes, together with the whole vaginal mucous mem- brane, removed in one piece. "(7) All bleeding points having been seized and ligatured with fine silk, the peritoneum of the pouch of Douglas was sutured to that on the bladder with a fine silk suture. " (8) The fascia at one side of the vagina was next sutured to that on the other side by a fine continuous suture beginning above at the level of the broad ligaments, and working gradually downwards to just above the vulva. In this way the bladder was pushed forward and the rectum backward by a firm column of connective tissue derived from the lateral fascia. "(9) The vulvar wound was then closed by interrupted silkworm gvit sutures approximating the posterior halves of the labia majora. "(10) The wound was dusted with iodoform, and a pad of iodoform applied. For some days the patient's urine was drawn off through a catheter. She was kept in bed for three weeks. After leaving the hospital she continued to improve, and when I saw her again on 30th June (the operation was performed on 11th May) she was quite well. Since that date she has been to the out-patient department to report herself from time to time. I examined her in the early part of July, and found her condition most satisfactory. She was perfectly comfortable, had complete control of the bladder, and no trace of any protrusion of any kind. The vulvar scar was quite painless, and, in her own words, ' life was now a pleasure instead of a continual misery '" [British Medical Journal, 5th October 1901). 4. Anteposition — Retroposition — Dextro- position—SiNiSTRO-POSiTiON.—In this group of displacements the uterus has been moved bodily from the normal position like one of the above- mentioned. These abnormal positions are caused either by tumours pushing the organ out of its place, or by cicatricial contractions drawing it out of place. Tumours of the sac- rum, rectum, and ovaries, tumour in Douglas's pouch, or a fibroid tumour growing from the posterior wall of the uterus, may push the organ forwards into anteposition. The same result may be caused by haemorrhagic extravasation or inflammatory effusion in Douglas's pouch. The organ may also be drawn forward by the cicatricial contractions resulting from anterior parametritis. 5. Retroposition.—Tumours in front of the uterus push it into retroposition, such as tumours of the bladder or ovarian tumours. The influences which produce this position, acting from behind, are the adhesions which result from either a collection of serous matter or extravasation of blood. 6. SiNISTRO- AND DeXTRO - POSITION of the uterus are produced by tumours growing be- tween the layers of the broad ligament, or are the results of cicatrisation following the in- flammation of the connective tissue of these layers. It is noteworthy that an inflammatory or a haemorrhagic swelling which at an early stage produces one displacement, at a later period produces a displacement in the opposite direc- tion. For example, a swelling of that nature in Douglas's pouch during the earlier stages of its existence thrusts the uterus forwards into anteposition, while at a later stage, after ab- sorption has been well accomplished, cicatrisa- tion follows and pulls the uterus back into retroposition. In like manner a cellulitis be- tween the layers of the left broad ligament pushes the uterus to the right side of the pelvis, while after absorption and the cicatricial con- traction which follows it have occurred, the uterus is drawn to the left side of the pelvic cavity. The left lateral position of the uterus is a very common displacement, and is explained by the frequent occurrence of left-sided cellulitis arising from the frequency of a tear on the left side of the cervix during labour, and the septic absorption which follows it.