YELLOW FEVER 594 generations to the conditions met with in the States, has paid a considerable tribute to the malady, but, as a rule, when the negro does take the disease it is in a comparatively mild form. In the Decatur outbreak of 1878, for example, the case-mortality of the whites was 44, that of the coloured population 13 per cent. Natives of the north of Europe are more susceptible to yellow fever and suffer from a more severe type of the disease than those from the south. Blair found the case-mortality of the Italians and French to be 17'1, that of the Scandinavians and Russians 27 per cent. Acclimatisation.—Natives of, and those who have been long resident in, yellow fever coun- tries are seldom attacked when the disease is epidemic. That the immunity of the native is, in part at least, the result of his having already passed through the disease is shown by the fact that when yellow fever was introduced for the first time into Rio the natives suffered as much as strangers. We can give no explanation of the remarkable difference in susceptibility between the natives of the north and south of Europe. One well-developed attack usually confers an immunity for life. Age ; Sex ; Profession.—Yellow fever is most fatal to adults. In infants and young children the disease is often so mild that it is with difficulty to be distinguished from other febrile diseases common to that age. Yellow fever, for some reason, is nearly twice as fatal to males as females. Physicians and nurses in yellow fever hospitals have often enjoyed a remarkable exemption when the disease has been epidemic in a town, and this has been urged as a proof that yellow fever is not infective. There are numerous instances, however, in which those in attendance on the sick have suffered out of all propoi'tion to the community generally. Thus, among the French soldiers at Vera Cruz in 1862, of forty-six attendants detailed for the service of the yellow fever wards, forty-three (93 per cent) were attacked and eighteen died, while the rest of the troops stationed in the same town had rather less than 20 per cent of attacks. So perilous, indeed, did the service prove that the authorities had to employ Soudanese negroes to nurse the sick. These, as we have seen, ex- hibited an inexplicable refractoriness to the virus. Medical men, if unacclimatised, often pay a heavy tribute to the infection. Thus, in Senegal in 1830, eight out of twelve; and in 1878, twenty-two out of twenty-seven medical officers perished. Those who visit the sick in their homes are more frequently seized than those who are on hospital duty. It is difficult to understand why in one epidemy all the at- tendants should escape, and in another almost all should be attacked, except on the assumption that some intermediary, not always present, is necessary for the transmission of the infection. Labourers engaged in discharging infected vessels, custom-house officers having to deal with baggage from infected ports, washerwomen employed in washing infected linen, and bakers, are especially liable to be attacked. Predisposing Causes.—Every kind of excess has been alleged to predispose to the disease, but it is impossible to determine what influence, if any, is to be ascribed to these causes. On one point there is practical unanimity—that the risk of contracting yellow fever is much greater by night than by day. Sources of the Virus.-—There can be no reason- able doubt that the virus, whatsoever it may be, nuiltiplies in the body of the patient, and that the patient himself is the primary source of infection. The doctrine of Hirsch, Scheube, and others, that it is not the yellow fever patient, but the yellow fever place that infects, is wrong, in so far as it ignores the fact that the place is directly or indirectly contaminated by the patient. Modes of Transport and Transmission.—We have already seen the important part played by shipping in the diffusion of yellow fever. The instance of the Anne-Marie, and we might have adduced many others, is conclusive that the germ of the disease or its bearer is transportable for short distances by the wind. It is equally well established that the virus is transported from place to place by persons actually sick, or in the incubatory stage of the disease. It is probably spread largely by those suffering from mild or abortive forms not recognised, which may explain a considerable number of what have been looked upon as spontaneous outbreaks. How long the patient remains infective is unknown. The important question remains, whether the virus can be transported in con- taminated clothing. Too much value is not to be attached to the negative experiments recently made in Cuba. They certainly do not justify the inference of the Commission "that the dis- infection of clothing, bedding, or merchandise supposed to be contaminated is unnecessary." If any amount of negative evidence could prove the non-communicability of the infection by contaminated clothing, the immunity of those employed in handling and washing the linen in the Lazaretto of Philadelphia for a long series of years, that of those similarly employed at Ber- muda in 1843, and in the colonial hospital at Demerara in 1841-45, would suffice. But it is impossible to ignore well-authenticated instances which seem to admit of no other explanation than that the virus of yellow fever is, in certain circumstances, transmissible by clothing and other effects. The Lisbon outbreak of 1857 began in the custom-house. It was custom- house officers, soldiers, and guards, whose duty it was to inspect and unpack the baggage coming from Brazil, or to be present in the low, un- ventilated rooms where this baggage was stored, it was these who were first attacked, it was