TYPHOID FEVER 186 qnently another six or seven days, sometimes as long as fifty days. 4. The fastigium may be of much less than the average duration, the morning remission occurring after even four or five days, and apyrexia being attained by the twelfth or four- teenth day (abortive typhoid); in some cases the early termination may be by crisis. 5. There may be sudden, extensive, irregular rises or falls in the temperature; these may be due to complications, such as pneumonia, or haemorrhage, or perforation, or septic absorp- tion, or to slight excitement or to nerve dis- turbance. In some cases the irregularity in temperature is extreme, and without ascertain- able cause other than to toxic disorder of the heat-regulating centres. 6. Hyperpyrexia may occur up to 110'3° in fatal cases, or to 107*8° consistently with re- covery. It is in nearly if not all cases due to local complications and septic absorption. 7. The temperature may be intermittent throughout the disease. 8. It may remain normal or subnormal throughout the disease ; such afebrile typhoid has been observed in epidemics, and is not less serious or free from the dangers of typhoid fever than other forms. 9. Occasionally the temperature may be liigher in the mornings than the evenings. 10. The fall of temperature with cessation of the disease may be by crisis. Course of the Disease.—The disease is very generally divided, for purposes of description, into periods or stages corresponding to epochs each of seven or of ten days' duration; but there is no anatomical or clinical ground for such division. The period at which ulceration of intestines begins varies within wide limits, and even if it did not, its commencement is un- marked by any recognisable symptom. The cutaneous eruption appears at very varying dates in different cases. The period of continued fever or fastigium is no constant duration, and there is no special change on the seventh day or on any multiple of the seventh day, nor is there any crucial day on which the disease is apt to end, though this often occurs about the twenty-first or twenty-eighth days. Such an idea appears to be a vestige of the time when typhoid and typhus fever were regarded as one disease, and spoken of as seven-day fever. By a consideration of the history of the ill- ness taken with the symptoms we can usually tell approximately about how many days the disease has lasted, and divisions into weekly stages are artificial and useless. It is convenient to describe the invasion symptoms separately from those of the es- tablished disease, but as already noted there is no defined line between these periods. As the disease progresses the condition of tongue becomes worse as a rule, the pulse-rate quickens. the patient weakens and loses flesh, and the mind usually becomes more confused; symptoms, too, may be added due to complications. The great majority of cases recover, the temperature gradually falling to subnormal, the stools becoming formed, and other symptoms subsiding till convalescence is established. The duration of the disease varies consider- ably. As already mentioned it may abort, the symptoms and pyrexia subsiding after about ten days, possibly even earlier; but the diag- nosis of a case of typhoid which aborts before the period at which the characteristic symptom appears must necessarily be open to doubt. The average duration of 200 cases, which recovered, collected by Murchison, was 24"3 days, and over three-fourths of them lasted more than three weeks; there was no evidence of any critical day on which cessation most often occurred, though it was often about the twenty-fii'st or twenty-eighth day. In excep- tional cases the duration may be as long as sixty days. In a minority of cases death occurs—from asthenia and bloodlessness, from toxaemia, from heart-failure, or as a result of the many com- plications which are apt to occur. Though we may thus separate the causes of the fatal issue, they are not infrequently com- bined in practice; and many of the deaths resulting from typhoid fever are not due to the typhoid poison but to septicaemia consequent on infection by other organisms. Statistics show that about 35 per cent of the deaths are due to local complications, the most important of which are melaena and perforation of intestine; the remaining 65 percentage of deaths are attributable to more general causes. When the disease is long protracted the temperature is apt to become irregular in the late stages, the circulation to become feebler, and the patient to sink gradually from toxic coma, with faint, flickering pulse; extreme tremor of limbs, face, and tongue muscles; blueness of extremities, and rambling delirium, with all the evidences of the typhoid state and extreme irregularity of temperature range. In other cases the mind may remain fairly clear and the heart force may fail, and death occur from syncope—a very rare termination in typhoid. When death is due to local compli- cations the special symptoms arise described under that head. Sudden death may occur from myocarditis and unexplained causes. Death rarely occurs in typhoid fever before the fourteenth day—the average duration of Murchison's fatal cases was 27*6 days. Hoff- man found it to be 28-9 days. Very rarely death occurs quite early, even on the second day. Complications and Sequelae. — Digestive System. — Ulcers occur on the pharynx (Bouvert);