TOXICOLOGY 69 unless disguised by strongly flavoured sub- stances, can be detected in solutions containing 1 part in 70,000. If a fragment of strychnine is mixed with a couple of drops of strong sul- phuric acid, and a few granules of manganese dioxide are stirred into the mixture with the point of a glass rod, a blue colour is produced which rapidly becomes purple and then gradually changes to red. A few drops of a solution of strychnine injected into a frog pro- duce convulsions in a few minutes. Nux Vomica, which owes its toxic activity chiefly to the strychnine it contains, has occa- sionally caused death. Brucine, the other alkaloid of nux vomica, acts like strychnine, but much less powerfully. It is almost un- known as a poison, not being accessible to the public. CoccuLUS Indicus, the active principle of which is picrotoxin, in small doses produces symptoms like those of alcoholic intoxication, and in larger doses it causes clonic spasms like those due to strychnine. Opium and Morphine.—The medicinal pre- parations—official and not official—are very numerous, and almost all of them, from time to time, give rise to symptoms of poisoning. Laudanum contains 0"75 per cent, of morphine. A drachm of paregoric is equal to a thirtieth of a grain of morphine hydrochlorate, and the strength of Dover's powder is equivalent to 1 per cent of morphine. Many of the soothing- drugs which are often improperly given to children contain small amounts of opium. Dalby's carminative contains about two and a half minims of laudanum to the fluid ounce; Atkinson's preserver, three minims to the ounce; Godfrey's cordial contains from half a grain to a grain and a half of opium to the ounce. Chlorodyne contains about four grains of morphine hydrochlorate to the ounce. Symptoms.—The first effect of a poisonous dose of opium or of morphine is excitation of the nerve-centres, which comes on in from half an hour to an hour after opium is swallowed, and in from a few minutes to a quarter of an hour if the poison be morphine. The action of the heart and of the lungs is accelerated, the face is flushed, and the mental condition is exalted; this stage is very evanescent, some- times so much so as to pass unrecognised. The next stage begins with a feeling of lassitude, heaviness in the head, giddiness, and a pro- gressively increasing tendency to sleep. The patient becomes drowsy and sinks into a con- dition of stupor. The pupils are contracted, the pulse is slow ; the breathing at this period being deep and regular. The patient can be roused somewhat by being shaken and loudly spoken to, and if the dose of opium has not been very large, he may be kept more or less conscious by various methods of stimulation. When a large dose has been taken the stupor deepens into coma, and then external stimuli utterly fail to evoke any response : the muscles are relaxed, the surface is cold and clammy, the features are shrunken and either pallid or cyanotic, the pupils are extremely contracted, the pulse is still slower, and the breathing is laboured, irregular, and stertorous. If the case ends fatally the patient becomes more profoundly collapsed, the breathing more embarrassed, the pulse more irregular, and the general appearance more death-like. The pupils may dilate immediately before death, and the heart may beat for a short time after respiration has ceased. In fatal cases death usually occurs in from six to twelve hours. If opium itself, or the tincture, was taken, the odour of opium may be perceptible in the breath. All the secretions, save that of the skin, are suppressed or diminished, so that the bowels are confined, the urine is feebly secreted, and is retained in the bladder, on account of loss of sensitiveness and of expulsatory power, and the mouth is parched from arrest of the salivary secretion. In children convulsions may occur ; they are exceedingly rare in adults. Occasionally the urgent symptoms mitigate to such an extent as to remove all fear, and then, after several hours of distinct improvement, the patient relapses into coma and dies. Treatment.—If the poison has been swallowed the stomach should be well washed out with a solution of potassium permanganate—ten to fifteen grains in six or eight ounces of water, repeated at half-hour intervals ; in default of the stomach-pump an emetic may be given, or eight to ten drops of injection of apomorphine (B.P.) may be administered under the skin. Attempts should be made to rouse the patient by means of external stimuli, such as flapping the face and chest with a wet towel, or the application of the faradic current to various parts of the body. In the mild form of opium poisoning the patient may be walked about between two assistants, and, if the surface of the body be warm, occasional douching with cold water may be resorted to, the patient being kept awake, by these various means, until the effects of the poison have passed off. In cases of severe opium-poisoning the treatment is different; in such cases it is worse than useless to drag a comatose person about. He should be put to bed, warmth should be applied to the surface, and, if necessary, artificial respiration should be diligently performed. Hot coff'ee may be injected into the stomach or the rectum, and hypodermic injections of atropine sulphate of a grain) may be given at not too frequent intervals. Hypodermic injections of strychnine (Jq-ttV of a grain) have proved very efficacious. Ether also may be injected inider the skin. Fatal Dose.—To adults, four grains of opium in one case, and in another two drachms of the tincture proved fatal. Recovery has taken