500 VITREOUS HUMOUR, DISEASES OF In the plastic cases no treatment is of much avail, the eye affected frequently after some time shrinks. In the suppurative cases enucleation or evis- ceration of the eye becomes urgently necessary for the relief of pain. Injuries.—In injuries of the eye the vitreous humour may become displaced. In concussion injuries, if the suspensory ligament becomes ruptured, the vitreous humour may protrude forwards round the side of the lens, between it and the ciliary body, even into the anterior chamber. In such cases, if an incision be made to remove the lens, some of the vitreous is exceedingly liable to present at, or escape from the wovmd. In some cases, as the result of wounds or from concussion, the lens may be dislocated right back into the vitreous chamber. In wounds of the eye, from which the lens has escaped or where it is absent, the vitreous humour may pass forward and acquire an adhesion to the cornea. Such anterior synechise of the vitreous humour are met with sometimes after needle operations performed for mem- branes left after the removal of cataracts. A tag of vitreous humour follows the needle on its withdrawal, and becomes entangled at the point of puncture in the cornea. A tag of vitreous humour prolapses some- times through a scleral wound, either one inflicted accidentally, or made by the surgeon, in the operation of scleral puncture. A piece of vitreous humour lying prolapsed through a wound, either corneal or scleral, is liable to form the track along which infective organisms may gain entrance to the eye and give rise to inflammation of the uveal tract or retina. In all operative procedures care should be taken to prevent or remove any prolapses of this character. When the vitreous humour becomes displaced in the way above mentioned there is always, necessarily, some detachment of its limiting hyaloid membrane from one or more of the structures with which it is normally in contact, aqueous or serous fluid occupying the space left. If a portion of the vitreous humour escapes from a wound, though the eye may fill out and regain its normal tension, no new formation of vitreous takes place, the space left by that which is lost becomes occupied by serous fluid, or a fluid having the character of the aqueous humour. It is surprising in some cases how large an amount of vitreous may escape and yet the eye regain its normal size and dimen- sions. Detachment of retina is, however, very liable to occur in eyes where a large amount of normal vitreous has been replaced by fluid. HAEMORRHAGE. — There are three possible sources from which haemorrhage into the vitre- ous may proceed, viz. the blood-vessels of the ciliary body, of the retina, or of the choroid, provided the retina has been ruptured or per- forated by a direct wound. It may result either from injury or disease. In so;me elderly people with degenerate arteries it occurs after straining effbrts, such as those occasioned by constipation. Certain young men are occasionally met with who ai-e peculiarly liable to attacks of recurrent haemorrhage into the vitreous, and in whom no definite constitu- tional cause has so far been detected. They are usually also liable to attacks of epistaxis, and some of them have been the descendants of gouty parents. Haemorrhage into the vitreous is also sometimes met with in patients suffering from diabetes. The clinical appearances presented by haemor- rhage into the vitreous vary with its amount. It may be so extensive that, on examination with reflected light from the opthalmoscope mirror, the whole pupillary area appears dark, none of the normal red reflex being obtained. In some cases the dull reddish hue of the blood- clots can be seen by focal illumination, and in some the haemorrhage is localised so that only a portion of the normal reflex of the fundus is obscured. Blood effused into the vitreous may become completely absorbed, leaving only a few float- ing strands of opacity behind, or the clots may form the matrix for bands of fibrous tissue to develop in. These when formed appear ophthal- moscopically as dense, greyish-white, branching, striated masses in front of the retinal vessels, and having blood-vessels coursing through them continuous with those of the retina. What is often spoken of as retinitis pro- liferans commonly arises in this way, i.e. by the organisation of blood-clots and the new forma- tion of fibrous bands in the vitreous chamber. As the fibrous tissue develops it contracts, and being adherent to the retina, drags that struc- ture away from the choroid for a portion of its extent. It is only very extensive and sudden haemor- rhages from the retinal vessels which have suffi- cent force to extend from the tissue of the retina and break through the hyaloid membrane into the vitreous. Sometimes blood from a retinal haemorrhage will collect beneath the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous, raising it away from the surface of the retina over a circular area, like the skin over a blister. Such a condition is most usually met with in the macular region. By the time the surgeon has the opportunity of examin- ing such haemorrhages opthalmoscopically, they have, from the effect of gravity, altered from being perfectly circular to having a straight upper border. These subhyaloid haemorrhages may completely absorb, leaving only a granular condition or a few white spots in the locality in which they were situated, or they may break or