202 TYPHOID FEVER patient, for he may suddenly get up from bed and catch a chill, or determine haimorrhage or perforation, or may attempt suicide or injury to others. Low muttering delirium requires alcohol; the liability to it appears lessened ))y the administration of intestinal antiseptics, commenced early in the case. Restraint of the patient is always to be avoided, if possible, except by having sufficient nurses. When delirium goes on long and there is the condition of incessant wakefulness, a hypodenuic injection of morphia is required ; trional sometimes acts well. Oxygen inhalations are often useful in toxic delirium, but must not be insisted on if the apparatus excite alarm. Pyrexia is not now regarded as one of the chief dangers of typhoid fever, and too much importance is not to be attached to the mere temperature; a pyrexia of 103° or even 104° for two or three weeks in a healthy young adult lying in bed and taking food well will not itself produce serious consequences, and when an unusually high temperature occurs, the danger is usually due to the local complication which gives rise to it and not to the pyrexia. And on the other hand serious, even fatal, cases may occur without much or even any pyrexia. The temperature, if judged unduly high for the period of the disease, can usually be tempo- rarily lowered by quinine or by drugs such as phenacetin, antipyrine, acetanilide, etc., but it is not advisable to use any of the latter for this purpose, as they have destructive influences on blood constituents and are depressing. Quinine in 5-grain doses is tonic in effect and is very effective, but it is slow in action. Much the most effective method of reducing pyrexia is the application of water at a low temperature. The simplest plan, and one which is sufficient in most cases, is tepid sponging. But the cold pack or cold bath has a more powerful effect in reducing the temperature. The cold-bath treatment consists in repeated immersions of the patient from the beginning of the disease in water at a temperature of from 65° to 70° or 80° F. Cases of typhoid vary very much in severity in different epidemics, in different countries, and at different ages of life; more- over, at the early stage of the fever at which the cold-bath treatment is commenced by some, the diagnosis is so uncertain that some of the cases said to be aborted by the bath treatment may not have been typhoid at all. Still, the statistics show the mortality under this method of treatment to be only 8 or 9 per cent, very much less than the mortality in England of about 17 per cent. The mortality in the Maidstone epidemic was only 8 per cent with- out cold baths. In the routine treatment all patients must commence it from the earliest period of the disease. Out of every 100 cases of typhoid, 92 would have recovered without the treatment. and 8 who would have died under any treat- ment are subjected to it unnecessarily. And it is not that doubts are felt as to the benefits of the treatment, but because of the difficulties in private practice of carrying it out, that the cold- bath treatment is not more generally adopted. It is impossible, it must be conceded, to fore- tell with certainty whether a given case of typhoid will turn out to be mild throughout its course ; still in many cases there are indications that it will be so, and, as the cold-bath treat- ment stands a much better chance of being made use of if it be observed in what class of cases it is most requisite, we reiterate insistence on its necessity in every case. Osier and Liebermeister only give the baths if the temperature rise over 102-5°, Singensen at over 104°. Hare of Brisbane finds that the temperature of the bath need not be so low as sometimes recommended ; he obtained equally good results with water at 75° or 80° F. Dr. Barr recommends that the patient be kept in a tank of water, continually changing, for many days, the temperature of the water to be 90° to 98°. Hyperpyrexia is mostly due to some local complication, and if discovered the treatment of it will be indicated ; as a symptom nothing is so effective in its treatment as cold bathing, and quinine may be given also. Asthenia and Toxasmia are commonly com- bined. The treatment consists in endeavouring to nourish the patient from the very beginning of the illness, giving as much food as he can assimilate, in preventing losses by haemorrhages and diarrhrea, and by promoting sleep. In a more advanced stage of the disease, with signs of exhaustion and toxaemia, every endeavour must be made to promote the action of the eliminating organs and to stimulate the circula- tion by strychnine, alcohol, sumbul, musk, and other diffusible stimulants, etc It is in the reduction of the deaths from asthenia that the routine cold-bath treatment lessens the mortality, and not from lessening the frequency of local " accidents." Many of the deaths appear to be contributed to by an actual want of blood, the vessels being empty, and a tendency arising for blood to accumulate in the venoihs circulation. In these cases intravenous saline injections are sometimes useful, too often only temporarily. I have found they act better at a temperature of 100° than at the higher temperature at which they are sometimes given. Iron and feeding to the utmost possible are advisable at this period, and I have given bone medulla internally with apparent advantage. Typhomalaria. See Malaria (Com- plications); Tropics, Unclassed Fevers of {Typho-Malarial Fever); Undulant Fever {Synonyms).