URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 276 the cachexia which results from malignant growths. In renal diseases, such as acute and chronic nephritis, the chlorides are excreted in diminished quantity, as also are the other inorganic salts. Of peculiar interest is the influence of fevers, and especially of acute pneumonia, upon the output of chlorides in the urine. Redtenbacher, in 1850, emphasised the remarkable diminution of the urinary chlorides in acute pneumonia, and since then his observation has been abundantly confirmed by a number of observers. Among these Lionel Beale, Frankel, Rohmann, Terray, von Moraczewski, and R. Hutchison may be mentioned, and it is upon Hutchison's observations that the following account is chiefly based:— The diminution, even amounting to complete disappearance of the urinary chlorides, is by no means confined to pneumonia, but is met with in other acute fevers. In fevers of long dura- tion, such as typhoid, it is only met with during the earlier days of the attack. In malaria, on the other hand, the excretion of chlorides is increased instead of being diminished. In pneumonia the diminution persists for a day or two after the crisis, and is sometimes followed by an excretion of more than the normal amounts, quantities considerably in excess of the intake with the food. Hutchison could trace no relation to the height of the fever nor to the extent to which the lungs were involved in diff'erent cases, and whilst the chlorides undergo such marked fluctuations nothing comparable occurs with the other inorganic salts, the phosphates and sulphates. A comparison of the intake and output shows that the diminished excretion is due to an actual retention of chlorides, for it can be shown that the absorption from the alimentary canal is not impaired and that no adequate vicarious excre- tion occurs by the skin or other channels. The total excretion in the sputum is small, although the sputum is rich in sodium chloride. The inflammatory exudate, on the other hand, is not very rich in chloride, and the quantity contained in it will not account for the retention as was formerly supposed. Nor can the reten- tion be ascribed to lesions of the kidneys, for nothing comparable is seen even in acute nephritis which causes a diminution of the other inorganic salts of urine also. Hutchison, whilst he was unable to obtain evidence of the accumulation of chlorides in any special organ in cases of pneumonia, found that the fixed tissues as a whole were apparently somewhat richer in these salts than usual. He brings forward evidence against the view that the retention of chlorides is merely secondary to that of water, and that it simply represents the quantity required to form with the retained water a saline solution of the normal concentra- tion. In the estimation of the urinary chlorides advantage is taken of the well-known precipita- tion as chloride of silver, and several volumetric methods have been devised for this purpose which will be found described in works on urinary analysis. Sulphates.—The normal daily output of sul- phates in the urine corresponds to some l'5-3 grammes SO3. Of the sulphates the greater part occur as simple metallic salts, whereas a far smaller portion is in combination with aromatic substances, as ethereal or aromatic sulphates, of which the indoxyl-sulphate, the so-called urinary indican, afl'ords the most familiar example. Not all the sulphur contained in urine is in the form of sulphates, some always appearing as neutral or unoxidised sulphur. Of the total sulphates some portion is derived from the food, but the bulk is a product of the breaking down of the tissue proteids, some of which are much richer in sulphur than others. Sulphates administered as drugs appear for the most part as such in the urine. No such clinical interest attaches to the variations in the total sulphates of the urine as to those in the chlorides. As may be inferred from their proteid origin, they tend to vary concurrently with the nitrogen excretion, the relation of the total nitrogen to the total HgSO^ being about as five to one. Accordingly, an increased excretion accompanies febrile disorders and results from active muscular exertion, and, as Garratt has shown, occurs at an early period of such exertion. An increased output has also been observed in leukaemia. Of far greater clinical importance is the pro- portion of ethereal to simple sulphates, as afford- ing evidence of the amount of proteid decom- position in the alimentary canal, but of this it will be necessary to speak later in connection with the excretion of aromatic substances. Phosphates.-—Of the phosphates of urine the major portion is derived from the food, the minor from tissue metabolism. The phosphoric acid is combined with several bases, partly as mon-acid and partly as di-acid phosphates. The total excretion amounts to some 2"5-3 grammes PgOg in the twenty-four hours, but varies con- siderably with the nature of the diet taken. The phosphates of the alkali metals, especi- ally of sodium, exceed in quantity the phos- phates of calcium and magnesium or earthy phosphates. A diet rich in alkaline phosphates markedly increases the urinary output, whereas the phos- phates of calcium and magnesium are to a large extent excreted by the intestine. An animal diet causes a greater excretion than a vegetable one, and the urine of vegetivorous animals is notoriously poor in phosphates. A very small portion, a few milligrammes daily, of the phos- phoric excretion is in the form of glycero- phosphates.