VACCINATION 382 us of herself . . . how her beloved colonel ' married her as soon as she was able to quit the chamber, when the priest and all that saw her were affrighted to look on her.'" If, leaving these general statements as to the prevalence of smallpox, we try to ascertain the actual percentage of the population of London or any other town that died of the disease before the vaccination era, we are met by the fact that there was in London no registration of births till early in the nineteenth century ; and that the only record of deaths up till the year 1838 were the bills of mortality or lists of burials kept for ail the parochial burial-grounds. The London bills of mortality were first com- piled by order of Thomas Cromwell about 1538, and the systematic keeping of them was begun by the Company of Parish Clerks in 1593. Each parish clerk was directed to bring " to the Clerks' Hall, weekly, a note of all christenings and burials." Obviously, calculations on such a basis cannot pretend to have any minute accviracy. The records were, however, carefully studied by Sir John Simon, and the conclusion he arrived at was that from 1660 to 1679 small- pox in London had killed anually 4170 per million of inhabitants, and that from 1746 to 1755 the rate was about 3000 per million. To estimate correctly the smallpox mortality rate for all England is still more difficult. It would certainly be lower than in London, and in some isolated parts of the country it might be entirely absent for a long term of years. Some of the provincial towns were in advance of London in the matter of registration; and here and there it is possible to study the mortality caused by smallpox towards the end of the eighteenth century with considerable precision. In Glasgow it was 4700 per million ; in Manchester, 4300; in Liverpool, 6400; in Chester, "a place of incredible healthiness," 3300 ; in Boston, 2700 : all per million of population. Occasionally we can get the exact record of a given year. At Leeds, for instance, in 1798 more than one-third of the total mortality was caused by smallpox. The numbers are 272 out of 779. In 1801, when the first census was taken, London, with less than three-quarters of a million of inhabitants, had a smallpox mortality of over 3000. A census exists of the small town of Ware, taken soon after an epidemic in 1722, and with the special view of recording the facts as concerning smallpox—in itself good evidence of the importance of the disease. The total number of inhabitants was 2515. Of these, 1601 had had the smallpox before the recent epidemic; 612 had just had it; 72 had died; and the rest of the entire population (302) are described as " those who have to have their smallpox." That accounts for the entire popu- lation of Ware. Evidence abounds pointing to the almost universal liability to the disease. Advertisements for servants mention that they must have had the smallpox. Sir Gilbert Blane told a Committee of the House of Commons that at the end of the eighteenth century there was scarcely an adult person to be met who had not had the smallpox. It even came to be con- sidered a grave disadvantage not to have had it in childhood. Sir Gilbert Blane spoke in this sense to a Committee of the House of Commons. He said :— "Such as have not had the smallpox in the early period of life are not only rendered un- happy, but likewise in great measure unfit for sustaining many of the most useful and im- portant offices. Few people would choose even to hire a servant who had not had the smallpox, far less purchase a slave who had the chance of dying of this disease. How could a physi- cian or surgeon who had never had the small- pox himself attend others under that malady? How deplorable is the situation of females who arrive at mature age without having had the smallpox! . . . How often is the affectionate mother forced to leave her home and abandon her children at the very time when her care is most necessary ! Yet should parental affection get the better of her fears the consequences would often prove fatal." In the Final Keport of the Vaccination Com- mission we read, on page 13 :— " Perhaps the most striking evidence in favour of the conclusion as to the great prevalence and high mortality of smallpox in Western Europe in the eighteenth century and earlier, is to be seen in the fact that the chance of taking the disease and of dying from it was made the sub- ject of mathematical treatment by distinguished mathematicians of the time. Thus Daniel Bernouilli, writing in 1760-65, takes as one of the bases of his calculation the datum that small- pox carries off the j^^th or y^th part of each generation." We may compare this estimated rate of the eighteenth century's smallpox mortality with that of scarlet fever at the present time. For twenty years, from 1875 to 1894, the average annual mortality from scarlet fever in England and Wales was 430 per million, which is about one-ninth of the smallpox mortality in the pre- vaccination century as estimated by Dr. Farr. It must always be remembered, moreover, that those who escaped with their lives from a bad attack of smallpox had gone through a time of great suffering. Few illnesses are as painful as smallpox of even moderate severity. No doubt epidemics varied very greatly then, as they do now, in the severity of their type of the disease ; but it is apparently well within the mark to say that in England generally smallpox killed over 2000 per million in each year, and that in London and other large towns the rate was often over 4000 per million. Let us see now what vaccination has done to reduce this terrible mortality.