UTERUS, MALFORMATIONS OF THE 320 III. Malformations by Excess of De- velopment— Pseudo-heymaphrodism . . 324 Accessory Organs or Ostia . 324 Defects of the Hymen . . 325 C. Clinical Aspects of Malformations OF THE Female Genital Organs— 1. Symptomatology .... 325 2. Diagnosis . . . .327 3. Treatment ..... 327 In order to understand the malformations to which the female generative organs are liable, some knowledge of the broad outlines of the development of these organs is necessary. A. Development of the Gbnito-Urinary Organs.—Up to the end of the eighth week of foetal life there is no differentiation of sex (Fig. 1, I.) On each side of the median line is found a Miillerian duct a Wolffian duct and a ureter {u). The allantois {g), destined to become the bladder, communicates with the rectum {h); there is no communication with the outside, but opposite the end of the hind- gut is a depression (6), the urogenital sinus. In front of this depression is a prominence (a), the genital eminence, prolonged backwards on each side of the urogenital sinus, and destined to form the external organs. In close relation to the Wolffian duct is a thickening of peri- toneum, from which the genital gland (ovary or testis, as the case may be) will be formed. From the eighth to the twelfth week (ii. and III.) important changes occur. The Miillerian ducts coalesce from below upwards {m), forming the vagina (which opens below into the urogenital sinus) and the uterus; for some time the uterine horns remain distinct, the demarcation between each horn and its corresponding Fallopian tube being indicated by the insertion of the round ligament (r). The Wolffian ducts (w) atrophy and finally disappear, except on some vestigial traces still found in the adult {see Table on p. 321). The communication between the hind-gut and the outside is effected, forming a cloaca (c), which by the downgrowth of the perineum (p) becomes divided into urogenital opening and anus. From the twelfth to the twentieth week the female characters become more marked (iv.). The uterine horns become fused to form an undivided uterus; the cervix with its arbor vitJE is indicated; the urethral and vaginal orifices become separated {d and e); the peri- neum {p) enlarges, separating the anus (/) farther from the vaginal orifice. The genital eminence {a) becomes relatively smaller, form- ing the clitoris ; the folds which pass backwards from it, bounding the urogenital sinus, become the labia minora, and within the vestibule be- tween them the hymen forms round the vaginal orifice. From the twentieth week to the end of foetal life the organs already formed become better developed; the fundus of the uterus FIO. 1.—Diagram of the mode of development of the female genital passages, a, Genital eminence ; 6, urogenital sinus, forming, c, cloaca, and subsequently, d, urethral orifice, « vaginal orifice, /, anus; g, bladder; h, rectum; i, ura- chus; m, MuUerian ducts, forming Fallopian tubes, uterus, and vagina; p, perineum; r, round ligament; «, ureters, w, Wolffian ducts. increases in size, though it does not keep pace with the size of the cervix; folds form in the