TUBEKCULOSIS 126 them down. Dr. Edward Squire thought that the use of tuberculin even for diagnostic purposes was unjustifiable in tuberculosis of the lungs, though it was undoubtedly useful in surface or surgical tuberculosis. The result of the discussion seemed to be the establishment of Koch's views, but nevertheless the agent is still far too dangerous to be em- ployed as a routine means of diagnosis by practitioners. Agglutination of the Tubercle Bacillus.—Koch has lately published a paper in the Deutsche medicinische Wochenschrift, November 28, 1901, in which he details the employment of this property of the bacillus in diagnosis. Arloing and Courmont, by using cultui'es on potato, in which the bacilli are fairly well separated from each other, obtained positive results as regards agglutination with the blood serum or serous exudation from tuberculous men and animals. Koch also obtained the reaction with ordinary cultures by special methods, but as it is obtained in other diseases as well, he concludes that a marked distinction cannot be drawn between the cases. He found, however, that by employ- ment of small doses of tuberculin he could raise the agglutinating power, and concluded that this corresponds with the formation of an anti- toxin, from the fact that the general condition of the patient showed improvement from the time that the agglutinating property appeared in the serum. He suggests this as a method of treatment in cases where no progress is being made under other methods. Others have also suggested the use of tuberculin therapeutically in alliance with other procedures, e.g. sanatorium treatment. Morbid Anatomy.—Lesions produced hy the Tubercle Bacillus.—In order to understand the variation in the character of the lesions seen in man, we must premise variations both in the infective agent and in the soil on which it is implanted. Thus the bacilli may vary in virulence and the individual may vary in power of resistance. Virulent bacilli may be expected to produce actively developing lesions, tending early to caseate and break down. Bacilli of slight viru- lence will rather produce chronic changes with tendency to formation of fibrous tissue enclosing the bacilli, and there is less liability to caseate and break down. In children, in young adults, and in weaklings the active form is more often met with. As age advances resistance becomes greater, and the lesions partake more of a chronic character. Hence, one must not expect—all things being apparently equal so far as the infective agent is concerned—to find exactly similar changes in all subjects. Relation of the Bacilli to the Cells.—In man the bacilli, as a rule, may be said to be extra- cellular, i.e. except as regards the giant cells. Sims Woodhead points out, however, that in certain cases where recovery appears to be going on, bacilli may be found in epithelioid cells. He states that in animals the bacilli are found comparatively frequently in cells, particularly in the epithelial cells of the acini and small milk ducts of the tuberculous udders of cows. Benda has also noticed these appearances in the cells lining canals in other organs as well as in the lacteal ducts of udders, and looks on them as evidence of the spread of tuberculosis along the epithelial canals, a mode of spread which he considers very common, if not the most common. Sims Woodhead further notes the interesting point that this accumulation of bacilli in the cells, particularly in those of the cat, has a peculiar significance from the fact that the tissues of that animal are exceedingly resistant to the attacks of tubercle bacilli, and only when this resistance is overcome by the invasion of large numbers of bacilli, does the animal suc- sumb to the disease. The " Grey " Tubercle.—The histological basis of all tuberculous lesions is the " grey" or " miliary " tubercle. This consists essentially of a cluster of large oval cells each of which possesses a large and distinct nucleus and a considerable amount of protoplasm. These cells—termed endothelioid or epithe- lioid—are derived by proliferation of the con- nective tissue cells of the part infected, and also by proliferation of endothelial cells of lymph channels, or capillaries near. Metschnikoff con- siders that they represent a form of white blood corpuscle, amoeboid, and phagocytic, which have been attracted to the spot in virtue of positive chemotaxis, and are engaged in attacking the in- vading organisms. These epithelioid cells lie in the meshes of a stroma derived from the original ! connective tissue of the part. As one passes to the periphery of the grey tubercle, smaller cells—lymphocytes—are seen scattered among the endothelioid cells, and they become more numerous until at the edge of the nodule they form a more or less dense layer surrounding it. Frequently fibrin is foiuid amongst the cells, particularly in lower animals. These tubercles become non-vascular, and are then nourished by the fluids which transude from the blood-vessels, the vessels which formerly penetrated the area becoming blocked by endo- thelial proliferation or by thrombosis. Such is the appearance of the rapidly forming acute miliary tubercle. When development is less rapid, and also— according to Hamilton — when infection has taken place by way of lymphatics, giant cells are commonly seen. These usually develop towards the centre of the tubercle, and surrounding them are arranged the endothelioid cells and lymphocytes. Some look on giant cells as evidence of degeneration,