TYPHOID FEVER 187 sharp-cut ulcers may also occur on the palate and on the pillars of fauces, due to the strepto- coccus and staphylococcus. Acute glossitis ; also gangrene of tongue may occur. Cancrum Oris is very rare; said to be commonest in children. It may invade the cheek, gums, and alveolar process of jaw, and is a serious but not necessarily fatal complica- tion. Parotitis is uncommon, is usually unilateral, occurs as a late complication or as a sequela, attributed to spread of inflammation along Stenon's duct or to metastatic inflammation; rather over half the cases are said to suppurate, and pus may escape through the meatus auditorius externus; the specific bacillus has been found in the pus. The entire gland may slough out. Thrombosis of the internal jugular vein may be produced and pyaemia. It is a serious but by no means fatal complication; the symptoms are those of parotitis from other causes, and the treatment is the same. The oesophageal mucous membrane may be in- flamed, and ulcers may form leading to stricture ; submucous abscesses may occur. Hcematemesis is very uncommon, and prob- ably arises from small ulcers or erosions of the mucous membrane; it may be fatal, as in a case under the author's observation in a young child. Hiccough is sometimes obstinate; it may be due merely to flatulence, but if severe and persistent, suggests peritonitis or gangrenous changes in the intestine. Peritonitis may result from deep intestinal ulcers without (or oftener) with perforation, from rapture of softened mesenteric glands, from splenic infarcts or abscesses, from rupture of gall-bladder, or of abscesses in the abdomen. It is indicated by its usual symptoms, preceded by symptoms special to the cause in the indi- vidual case. It may be localised and subside, or be rapidly spreading and soon fatal: the symptoms may be quite latent. Perforation occurs in about 3 per cent of cases, accounting for about 18 per cent of the deaths from typhoid. It is most apt to occur in protracted cases with much diarrhoea or tympanites; melsena and pain in the abdomen, pointing to deep ulceration, often precede per- foration. It is predisposed to by purgation, enemata, vomiting, sudden movements of the patient, by fighting the disease without going to bed, and by taking solid food too early. It occurs as early as the eighth or as late as the hundred-and-tenth day, is uncommon before the fourteenth or sixteenth day, and is commonest between the twentieth and twenty- eighth days. It may occur during a relapse, during convalescence or long after convalescence appears completed. The perforation is usually in the ileum, rarely in the jejunum, occasionally the colon or the vermiform appendix; it may be a mere pin-point hole in the thinned intestinal wall or an actual sloughing of the floor of an ulcer. Usiially there are ulcers in the intestine which are nearly or actually per- forated, as well as that which has actually per- forated. The symptoms of perforation are equivocal in some cases, being those producible by other complications likely to happen in typhoid, and on the other hand they may be so slight that perforation is not even suspected. There may be sudden acute abdominal pain with subsidence of previous tympanites, sudden fall in temperature and pulse force, faintness, pallor, vomiting, clammy sweats ; death may very quickly occur; more often the patient rallies and peritonitis sets in, with shivers or rigors, recurrence of pyrexia, vomiting, increased distension of abdomen, rapid pi;lse, followed by hiccough, rambling delirium, sunken features, sipping breathing, and death from exhaustion and sepsis in two to twenty-one days, usually in four or five days. When the intestine gives way by some small pin-point hole, the mutual pressure of distended coils of gut may prevent the escape of intestinal contents, except perhaps a little oozing. In rare instances local peritonitis may seal up such perforation and lead to recovery ; more often local abscess forms with septic absorption and fatal results. In cases of perforation such as these, the symptoms may be of the slightest: merely a slight fall in temperature and a feel- ing of faintness; later on rigidity of abdominal muscles, pain, and symptoms of peritonitis, but the more prominent symptoms are usually those of septic absorption, rigors, high fever, hiccough, etc.; such cases may last longer than those in which there is difit'use peritonitis, but eventually die of toxajmia. Intestinal Hcemorrhage occurs in a proportion of cases variously estimated at from 3 to 9 per cent. The statistics of the Hospitals of the Metropolitan Asylums Board provide by far the greatest total of cases from which an average can be deduced and place it at about 10 per cent. It may occur as early as the fifth or sixth day from congestion of the vessels around a Peyer's patch, but severe haemorrhage does not occur till ulcers have formed, i.e. before the tenth day or thereabouts. It may occur at any time after this, most often between the twentieth and twenty-eighth days (or, according to Osier, between the fourteenth and twenty-first days) ; it usually arises from an opened arterial twig, sometimes from a vein. The quantity may be a mere streaking of the motions or as much as several pints, bright red or dark coloured, in sudden rushes or gradual oozing, with or without clots ; is often repeated again and again.