WA.TER 516 only one or two houses are supplied, but it is useless expecting to obtain a really good water from a well placed in a garden highly manured around or over the surface of the well, yet wells of this character abound. Water from rivers or streams is very variable in character, consisting usually of an admixture of surface, spring, and subsoil water. During heavy rains the surface water may carry with it impurities from the soil, at other times animals may defile it, drainage from houses or farm- yards may enter it, sewage or sewage efHuents or manufacturing refuse may be discharged into it. Vegetable growths occurring in the stream or on the banks decay and give up organic matter to the water. For these reasons the majority of streams are so polluted as not to be available as sources of supply. In hilly and mountainous districts where there is little vegeta- tion and few habitations the streams may yield a wholesome water. Where the flow of water in a river is enormous compared with the volume of polluting matter entering, and the water is impounded in reservoirs for subsidence, and as a i-eserve to avoid having to take water from the river when rendered turbid by floods, and the clarified water is finally submitted to most careful filtration, a good potable water may possibly be the result. London is supplied in this way, and the evidence of experience is apparently satisfactory. It is quite probable, however, that an impure river water may give rise to a high mortality rate from typhoid fever without causing epidemics. Thus in Newark, Notts, typhoid fever was constantly prevalent when the town was supplied with water from the river Trent. In 1893 a fresh supply was obtained from deep wells in the new red sand- stone. The fever almost immediately subsided, and has since only been about one-tenth the previous average. The excessive prevalence of enteric fever in the towns in the Tees valley supplied with water from that river was attri- buted by Dr. Barry, an inspector of the Local Government Board, after a thorough investiga- tion, to the polluted condition of the river water. There is no doubt that a polluted river water during its flow tends to become purified. This so-called "self-purification" is due to the action of air, light, vegetable and animal growths, sedi- mentation, and possibly other causes, but it is probable that no river in the British Isles is sufficiently long to effect complete purification. Probably the purest of all waters is derived from deep wells, wells supplying water from a porous stratum lying beneath an impervious formation. Such water has generally travelled a long distance from the outcrop to the point from which it is drawn, and any organic matter originally contained in it has become completely oxidised, and filtration has been practically perfect, far more perfect than any artificial process. Immense stores of the purest water are contained in the chalk, sandstone, and oolites, and smaller quantities in the lias, green- sands, Hastings and Thanet sands, and millstone grit. When the outcrop is at a much higher elevation than the ground surface at the site of the well the water may overflow. Such wells are usually called " artesian " from the province of Artois in France where such wells were first found. Such a well recently sunk at Bourn, Lincolnshire, overflows at the rate of about five million gallons per day, and is probably the most prolific underground spring yet tapped in England. It is calculated that the chalk in the Lea valley will yield forty million gallons of water per day in the driest years, and the Kent chalk twenty-seven million gallons. Deep wells are usually bored, and the boring lined with screw-jointed steel tubes. Where water can be obtained from deep subterranean sources there are many advantages besides that of purity. Very little land is required, no compensation water has to be provided, filtration is unneces- sary, and protection from pollution is easy. On the other hand, pumping has usually to be resorted to, but with modern machinery this is not a serious item. Deep wells are expensive to construct, hence they are rarely sunk for the supply of single houses or small communities, save in districts where no other source is avail- able. In some cases the well tube is brought above the ground surface and a pump attached. The only possibility of pollution is from per- foration of the tube, when subsoil water, which may be impure, may be drawn in. In other cases the tube terminates at the bottom of a well, and this well is liable to all the risks of the ordinary shallow well. Contaminated waters are often used for lengthened periods without producing any ap- preciable effect upon the health of the con- sumers, but it seems quite probable that, in many instances, the system has become accus- tomed to its use. It is a common experience to find that persons who have previously used a pure water suffer from diarrhoea when they have to drink such a polluted water. In some rural districts where pond water is used the old in- habitants often prefer it to a purer supply, whilst other families moving into the district are so affected by the water that they remove again as early as possible. Sooner or later, however, specific pollution occurs and disease follows. Diarrhoea is the most common symptom of water-poisoning, and may be caused by quite a variety of substances. Finely divided mineral matter may cause the irritation, or an excessive amount of magnesium sulphate or chloride, and possibly other salts. Water impregnated with even a small quantity of sulphuretted hydrogen, or with the gaseous emanations from drains, has often been charged with causing diarrhoea. Water impregnated with decaying vegetable matter or with peat may affect persons un-