/ URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 305 When a nucleus is once formed further de- position upon it readily occurs, as is well seen in those cases in which a foreign body lying in a bladder in which ammoniacal decomposition is going on becomes encrusted with earthy phosphates. In the same way even a calculus of uniform composition usually bears evidence of the deposition upon it of successive layers of the ground material, and a nucleus of somewhat different structure from the rest may usually be distinguished. Metamorphotic changes may also occur, as for example when a uric acid calculus lies for a long time in a bladder containing alkaline urine. Under such conditions some of the material of the calculus may undergo solution, and may be replaced by a deposit of earthy phosphates. Uric acid calculi are the commonest of all. They vary in size from small spherules no larger than pin-heads, which are usually multiple and are probably formed in the renal tubules, to vesical stones as large as hens' eggs. The small particles of gravel are seen on section to have a radiating crystalline structure and the larger stones are composed of concentric layers which are apt to separate in flakes when the calculus is broken up. Like crystalline sediments of uric acid such calculi are always coloured by included urinary pigments, and exhibit a yellow or reddish-brown tint. Their surface is usually smooth, but may be slightly granular. Calculi formed in the renal pelvis are apt to assume peculiar forms corresponding to that of the irregular cavity in which they lie, but uric acid stones from the bladder are usually oval in form and somewhat flattened. On section distinct interposed layers of calcium oxalate are sometimes seen in stones of this character, and phosphatic stones are often found to have one or more small uric acid concretions as their nucleus. The nature of uric acid calculi may be recog- nised by the fact that when burnt upon platinum foil they leave no considerable ash, showing the absence of fixed alkalies or alkaline earths, and when heated with caustic alkali they give off" little or no ammonia. On the other hand, they yield the murexide test, i.e. when a portion of the material of the stone is heated with nitric acid upon a piece of white porcelain and the acid is evaporated to dryness a reddish colour appears which changes to purple on the addition of ammonia. In the case of mixed stones a portion of one of the broken laminse, believed to be composed of uric acid, may be subjected to the above tests. Uratic Stones.—A secondary deposit of urates is not uncommon upon a nucleus of uric acid, and in young infants small urate calculi, soft and easily friable when dried, and tinted like those of uric acid, are not uncommonly met with. The nature of such layers or calculi may VOL. X be recognised by the fact that they yield the murexide test, but also give off ammonia freely when heated with a caustic alkali. Calciiim Oxalate Calculi. — These are the hardest of all urinary stones, and, like those of uric acid, vary in size from a fine gravel to calculi of considerable dimensions. The smaller concretions may be smooth or may exhibit spinous processes, or again may have surfaces composed of almost colourless crystals of calcium oxalate. The most characteristic are the familiar mulberry calculi, with nodular surfaces and black or dark brown in colour. On section they are seen to be composed of narrow concentric crystalline layers with inter- mediate deeply-pigmented zones, the included pigment being in all probability a derivative of hsemoglobin. There is usually a definite nucleus which is more coarsely crystalline. The struc- ture of these stones has been minutely studied and described by Ord and Shattock. Calcium oxalate dissolves in hydrochloric acid without effervescence. When moderately heated the oxalate becomes converted into carbonate, which effervesces with acids, and by heating in the blowpipe flame this becomes further decom- posed, leaving a residue of calcium oxide. Phosphatic calculi are usually formed around a nucleus of some other material, and occasion- ally around a foreign body, such as the broken end of a catheter. They are chiefly formed in the bladder, and consist, as a rule, of a mixture of the phosphates of calcium and magnesium, with ammonio-magnesium or triple phosphate. The last-named salt is formed as the result of ammoniacal decomposition of the urine. Rarely small calculi composed of calcium phosphate alone are met with, as in some cases of disease, such as osteomalacia, in which the bones are largely deprived of their inorganic constituent. Such stones are usually small; large well-formed crystals may project from their surfaces, and on section they show a distinct crystalline structure. Calculi composed of a mixture of calcium and ammonio-magnesium phosphates are known as fusible calculi, because they have the property of melting when heated over the blowpipe flame. Phosphatic stones are colourless or only feebly tinted, are as a rule soft, and may attain to a large size. They dissolve in hydrochloric acid, without eff"ervescence, both before and after incineration, and the solution yields the phos- phoric acid reaction with ammonium molybdate. The presence of triple phosphate may be de- tected by the free evolution of ammonia on heating with caustic potash or soda. Calcium Carbonate.—Calculi composed wholly or in large part of calcium carbonate are not common in man, although not infrequently met with in vegetable-feeding animals. They re- quire an alkaline medium rich in carbonic acid, 20