UREMIA 247 exhibit any necessary relation to the quantity of urea excreted; (iii.) that occasionally no symptoms of uraemia may be present, even though large quantities of urea may be detected in the blood ; (iv.) that when urea is given to animals with their food no symptoms are pro- duced so long as it can be freely excreted ; (v.) that frequently in dogs ursemic symptoms are not produced even by the injection of large quanti- ties of urea into the circulation. By the extirpa- tion of the kidneys it has been possible to estimate the amount of urea retained within the system from the time of the operation until the time of death from ursemic symptoms, and it has been found that far larger quantities may sometimes be introduced directly into the blood without any resulting uraemia. Some observers maintain that if in animals the rapid elimination of urea is prevented by ligature of the ureters, death with ursemic symp- toms occurs much more quickly than where the kidneys have been extirpated : this appears to indicate that the presence of urea is not the sole determinating factor in ursemia, but that in all probability some other deleterious substance is elaborated by the kidney. As the result of much experimental work Frerichs suggested that the toxic agent in ursemia might be ammonium carbonate, result- ing from the decomposition of urea in the blood, owing to the presence of some ferment. The arguments in support of this theory are (i.) the comparative ease with which urea can be trans- formed into ammonium carbonate; (ii.) the ammoniacal odour of the breath in cases of ursemia ; (iii.) the occasional detection of small quantities of ammonium carbonate in the blood in puerperal eclampsia; (iv.) the similarity of the symptoms produced by the experimental injection of ammonium carbonate; (v.) the possible absorption of ammonium carbonate resulting from decomposition of urea within the intestine or urinary passages. The objections to this theory ai-e (i.) that the ammoniacal odour of the breath depends upon decomposition within the mouth; (ii.) that it occurs both in health and in sickness, and is not limited to renal affections; (iii.) that in ursemic persons this transformation of urea in the blood does not occur; (iv.) that the injection of urine, which has undergone spontaneous decomposition, is not followed by ursemic symptoms unless the urine has been made septic by infection. The difficulties connected with the two chemi- cal theories above mentioned led Feltz and Ritter to test the efTects produced by the intravenous injection of the various constituents of the urine. They concluded that the convulsions, coma, and death which ensued after the injection of fresh urine could not be attributed to increased pres- sure, nor to the organic constituents, and that the potassium salts were the most powerfully toxic of the inorganic constituents. They main- tain that similar symptoms of ursemia were produced by injecting either fresh urine or dis- tilled water containing the same proportion of salts of potassium. By one observer symptoms of respiratory trouble have been attributed to the retention of salts of potassium; while another considers potassium chlorate to be the principal cause of vomiting. In opposition to this theory of the toxic influence of potassium salts, it has been stated that in some cases of puerperal eclampsia the proportion found in the blood was below the normal amount; it must be remembered, however, that many of the clinical features of eclampsia differ from those of ursemia. Alteration in the excretion of chlorides has been suggested as an explanation of ursemia. Clinically marked diminution of chlorides in the urine has been noted in acute and chronic nephrites, and the hypodermic injection of a concentrated solution of sodium chloride has been followed by clonic and tonic spasms alter- nating with a semi-comatose condition. Symptoms resembling those of ursemia have been produced by irritation of the cortex cerebri by creatin, creatinin, leucin, and tyrosin, and the late Sir William Roberts regarded ursemia as the result of the accumulation of these or similar substances in the blood, that is to say, of products intermediate between urea (or uric acid) and the albuminous substances from which it originates. Bouchard has propounded an extremely inter- esting theory of auto-intoxication according to which the human body manufactures poisons, which are only prevented from destroying life by their rapid elimination. The kidneys ex- crete toxic substances such as urea, potassium carbonate, etc., while the intestine removes com- pounds of potassium and ammonium. If these substances are retained in the body they are said to produce symptoms of ursemia as soon as the " uro-toxic coefficient" is attained. Recent examination of the blood and tissues in renal diseases has given the following results : (1) In suppression there is a great increase in the nitrogenous extractives in the blood and tissues; (2) in acute ursemia without dropsy there may be a still greater increase ; (3) in chronic renal disease fatal from other causes there is some increase, but not comparable with the above ; (4) in renal disease, even in appar- ent good health, there is a certain small excess ; and (5) in eclampsia the excess is trivial in amount. From these and other data Bradford maintains that ursemia cannot be held to be due to simple retention, and that in kidney disease, and after experimental lesions of the kidney, there is evidence of great tissue disintegration, and that it is more than probable that ursemia is dependent upon this, directly or indirectly. He suggests that the kidneys in some way con- trol the metabolism of the tissues of the body.