27 TINNITUS AURIUM outside the individual, and, accurately speaking, a distinction should theoretically be drawn between entotic or periotic and purely subjective noises which arise from irritation of the auditory nerve or centres by disturbances which would not in themselves produce sound, or, in other words, by stimuli which are not sonorous. Such would be the sensations of sound arising from fluxional or inflammatory disturbances of nutrition in the labyrinth, auditory nerve, or auditory centres. On the other hand, the pulsa- tions in the arteries of the ear, the muscle sounds, and the crepitations and cracklings accompanying middle ear catarrh are in them- selves sonorous, and the sound perceived by the patient is the result of sonorous vibrations in the structures of the ear, and therefore some- times differentiated as entotic. The distinction, though interesting, cannot always be drawn, and it is of theoretical rather than practical value. With regard, however, to entotic noises, they become audible when an obstructed con- dition is present which shuts in the sound, and when clinically there is increased bone-conduc- tion for the tuning-fork. Noises in the head are sometimes classified according to their characters and according to patients' descriptions. These are unlimited in number—chirping, hissing, rustling of leaves, boiling of kettles, rushing of water, rumbling of carts, ringing of bells, escape of gas, bio wing-off steam, "telegraph wires," ^olian harp, click- ing, pumping, musical notes, voices singing, voices talking, sometimes intelligibly, sometimes not. These noises may be divided into two groups, the "elaborate" and the "simple," the former including such sounds as distinct melodies or voices uttering intelligible words. These may be pure "auditory hallucinations," arising in the brain itself, or they may be "auditory illusions," as when there are simple sound sensa- tions, such as humming or hissing, excited by disease of the ear, but interpreted by the dis- eased brain as music or speech. Simple sounds may take various forms, but they may be divided into two great groups, pulsating and continuous. Pulsating sounds may be taken to be arterial in origin, and we have to endeavour to decide whether the arterial congestion giving rise to them is in the external or middle ear, or in the labyrinth; in the former case they are checked by compression of the common carotid artery in the neck by the well-known method ; when pro- duced in the labyrinth they are checked by the less well-known method of compressing the vertebral arteries in the suboccipital triangle; for this purpose the observer presses a thumb and middle finger into the depressions behind and slightly below the mastoid process, formed by the recti and oblique muscles, while counter- pressure is made with the other hand on the patient's forehead. It will be remembered that the labyrinth is supplied by the internal audi- tory artery, which is a branch of the basilar, and that the basilar is formed by the junction of the two vertebral arteries. Such sounds are sometimes audible to the auscultator ; and when they are heard through the bones of the skull and accompanied by giddiness, optic neuritis, and other evidences of intracranial tumour, there is great probability that the timiour is an aneurysm. Continuous simple sounds may be divided, in the first place, into high-pitched and low-pitched. The continuous tones of a low-pitched character, humming and rushing, are generally venous in origin, and may arise either from passive con- gestion (as from pressure of a bronchocele or other growth on the jugular vein, or disease of the right side of the heart); others, again, are the muscle sounds, namely, the contraction of the tensor tympani, and these latter are believed to produce the sea-shell noise of which some patients are conscious as resembling the sound heard when a sea-shell is held to the ear. This includes also the humming noises which occur in the subjects of anaemia. A curious " click- ing " sound, audible often to the observer as well as the patient, is sometimes produced by " clonic " spasms of the tensor palati and tensor tympani. High-pitched tones are usually due to some stimulation of the labyrinth, as when from increased tension of the tympanic ap- paratus more or less intermittent pressure is exercised on it by the stapes driven into the fenestra ovalis. It also occurs in disease of the labyrinth itself, whether idiopathic, congestive, inflammatory, or degenerative, or resulting from injuries to the head. Diagnosis of the Cause of Tinnitus Aurium.— In any given case it is more important to be able to diagnose the cause, and this depends as a rule upon other factors rather than the character of the sovmd. It is, in the first instance, necessary to deter- mine whether it depends on some disease of the structures of the ear or upon disturbance in the central nervous system due to local or consti- tutional conditions. We must decide, in the first place, whether there is an associated abnormality of heai-ing-power. If the hearing- power is diminished we are entitled to assume that the tinnitus and the dulness of hearing arise from the same cause, and we must decide the form of disease which gives rise to the defect of hearing-power, whether situated in the auditory centres, the internal, external, or middle ear, and it is upon this that the choice of treatment to be adopted depends. The methods of making these distinctions have been set forth in preceding articles, notably in the writer's (Dundas Grant) chapter on disease of the auditory nerve and labyrinth, vol. i. p. 329 of this work.