VICE 462 among boys is greatly on the increase, and that it is very harmful, it should be easy to rapidly diminish it. Any practitioner of parts could easily stop such a habit in a boy who was not an imbecile by some plain speaking, and by putting him under the informal control of a strong companion. If, as is suggested, physical training is to become an important feature in our educational system, one of the effects will likely be to diminish smoking and other vices. This is a kind of question, however, in which exaggerated opinions are apt to come to the surface. For drinking, for drug habits, and for other vices, it is surprising that so little good use has been made of the therapeutic voyage. Sea voyages, as a rule, are of a minus value for the vicious; but that is probably because the regime is not explicitly arranged to suit such cases. It would be an interesting and probably a valuable experiment if some one would organise a series of therapeutic voyages during which every passenger would undergo a course of systematic physical training, with an experienced physician to prescribe and a hard-hearted captain to enforce the discipline necessary in every case. Constipation.—Neglect to evacuate the bowels is a very prevalent vice, especially in women. It is indeed surprising that there is not more widespread knowledge of the importance of the excretory functions; perhaps the majority of women in the poorer ranks, and a considerable number of the well-informed, believe that two or even less evacuations in the week are sufEcient; and it would seem that many physicians are not much more enlightened. The reason is, that, in some cases, the system becomes habituated to the intestinal poisoning, and suffers only a slow and perhaps postponed injury. In such cases, however, improvement in general health is obvious if a daily and complete evacuation is achieved, though it is common for the patient to feel worse for a short period if the habit of constipation is suddenly bi-oken and intestinal activity too suddenly induced. The Nburo-Muscular System It is quite impossible to even suggest the various vices of nerve and muscle which the physician may have to deal with. It may be useful, however, if we would induce a patient in ill-health to make the most of himself, to repeat that abuses and neglects of nervous activities are both prevalent and important. Restlessness and excitability in all its forms— from the habit spasms of the choreiform to the garrulity of the illiterate and the anxious worry- ing of the too self-conscious—are amenable to common-sense treatment, and will repay it. But the neglect of the muscular system is a more frequent and an important fact in present- day life. Our men are perhaps busy enough in working hours, but, in hours of leisure, in- dolence is the rule. It is astonishing how seldom one meets a patient who can do any- thing at all except the business by which he earns a living, or who has any interests and tastes which stir his intelligence. And young women suffer still more in this respect. One of the most striking characteristics of their class is an over self-consciousness consequent upon a sense of uselessness. The amount of time and energy devoted to the learning of certain accomplishments which rarely have any tangible result is simple waste. The mind requires an outward effort, and something to show for it. There are few activities which yield so much zest in life as those in which there is something to be seen actually growing before one's eyes. The fashion which at present encourages young people to develop their muscles severally and assiduously, depends to some extent upon this pleasure which we normally have in a palpable demonstration that virtue is rewarded. But it is difficult to understand why the same energy should not be devoted to more useful pursiaits. Gardening is perhaps the ideal industry, in that it gives exercise to great masses of muscle, encourages a love of open air, promotes hardi- hood, and forms a contact for the mind with primitive and natural forces. But there are endless forms of handicraft which are easy to learn yet persistently neglected, and which would repay much culture. For one of the most useful and fertile elements in a human mind is the consciousness of skill and the stimulus which comes from the mere success of making something. Our race has developed along lines in which the formative or construc- tive activities were of the utmost importance ; the exigencies of city life have led us away from them ; and they are wise who, even under great difficulty, reach back to them. This is a therapeutic which physicians, as a rule, are much too slow to utilise. For patients who are subject to nervous ailments are invariably too self-conscious, at least in the early stages of their illness, and in many cases that stage would not be reached if men and women were seriously interested in projects other than personal. The Sexual System The physiological excuse for the tendency of civilised nations, and especially, perhaps, of the British, to make a fetish of chastity is to be found in the monopoly of the attention which sexual indulgence is apt to establish. The same is true of gambling and of gluttony, though not to so great an extent. For the sexual function is woven intimately into the whole nature, and its activities swamp and inhibit, or at least suborn, all else. Only a few men, and still fewer women, can make an art of loving and yet retain their interest in affairs. Love makes