255 URETHRA, DISEASES OF In Women.—The symptoms of acute gonor- rhoea are usually much less severe in women than in men, but the sequelae and complications are more serious. The inflammation begins as a urethritis which soon involves the vulva and the uterine cervix. The bladder often becomes inflamed quite early in the acute stage in conse- quence of the shortness of the female urethra. The symptoms chiefly complained of are tenesmus and scalding during micturition, and an examination of the vulva shows it to be in a state of acute inflammation with a purulent discharge from the orifice of the urethra. The acute stage passes off" in the course of a few days, when the inflammation tends to become chronic. The chronic state lasts many months, and as it gives rise to few symptoms it may pass almost unnoticed. Pressure through the vagina along the course of the urethra will cause a little exudation of muco-pus which may contain gonococci in the earlier stages, though it is often sterile when the discharge is of long standing. Gonorrhoea in some women appears to pass at once into a chronic state without any markedly acute symptoms, so that when the patients afterwards suffer from chronic pelvic inflammation, they are unable to assign a definite beginning to their trouble. In female children gonorrhoea takes the form of a vulvo-vaginitis, though it should be under- stood quite clearly that every discharge from the vulva and vagina of a little girl is not due to gonorrhoea. Complications.—The complications of gonor- rhoea common to both sexes are cystitis, though the symptoms of this troiible in men are often due to an inflammation of the posterior urethra (p. 251), the bladder itself not being involved; lymphangitis ; bubo ; urethral abscess ; syno- vitis, which may lead to disorganisation of the joint, but does not usually do so ; tenosynovitis, flatfoot; conjunctivitis, endocarditis, more rarely pericarditis or myocarditis, and meningitis; gonorrhoeal peritonitis affects women more often than men; pyaemia is somewhat more frequent in men than in women, possibly because it is not very unusual to have a septic thrombosis in the prostatic plexus of veins. The complications occurring in men are balanitis or inflammation of the surface of the glans penis; phimosis: paraphimosis; acute and chronic inflammation of Cowper's glands, of the prostate and of the vesiculae seminales ; epididymitis, and more rarely true orchitis, or inflammation of the body of the testicle. The complications peculiar to women are in- flammation of the numerous glands lying in the immediate neighbourhood of the urethra : chief amongst these are Skene's glands ; the endo- and para-urethral mucous follicles; the vesti- bulo-vaginal glands and the glands of Bartholin. The gonococci often linger for long periods in these recesses, where they give so little trouble that an apparently healthy woman is able to spread the disease through their secretions. The more serious complications are associated with acute and chronic inflammation of the pelvic organs and of the connective tissues surrounding them, foremost amongst these being metritis, salpingitis, perimetritis, and pelvic cellulitis. The sequelae common to men and women alike are sterility ; stricture of the urethra, and less commonly of the ureters; hypertrophy of the bladder and pyelitis ; urinary abscess ; extra- vasation of urine ; urinary fistula. Treatment.—The treatment of gonorrhoea is both important and difficult. In an ideal state the early and happy marriage of every male would abolish the disease in a single generation ; but as this is impracticable, it should be re- membered that a diseased woman is more likely to infect a drunken man, and one who has re- peated connection than another who takes his pleasure more soberly; that one attack of gonorrhoea predisposes to others, and that even slight sexual indulgence, though it be with a healthy woman, is able to reawaken the acute symptoms in a man who has only been partially cured of the disease. Gonococci deposited upon a mucous membrane are more likely to gain access through an abraded than through a healthy surface, but they do not pass into the lymphatics instantaneously. Washing and micturition immediately after a suspicious coitus may therefore remove them ; injections are less to be relied upon, for they may wash the micro- organisms into the urethra, and may act ad- versely by injuring the surface epithelium of the urethral mucous membrane. The first symptoms of infection show that the time has arrived for the adoption of more active measures, and it may be premised that those who can rest and modify the routine of their lives are more amenable to treatment, and are less likely to suff"er from complications and sequelae, than those who continue their usual avocations. The hygiene of the acute stage consists in bodily rest, low diet, the avoidance of stimulants, regulation of the bowels, and cool sleeping- rooms. The urethra should be freed as far as possible from the secretion, and where the older surgeons were content to effect this object by flushing and by stimulating injections, modern surgeons endeavour to soothe the inflamed parts and to render the discharge sterile. Nitrate of silver was formerly used to a large extent in the treatment of gonorrhoea from its earliest to its latest stage ; but various organic compounds of silver are now being adopted with beneficial results. Protargol is the most widely used, itrol or citrate of silver, and albargin, a prepara- tion of silver nitrate and gelatose, are more recent forms. The advantages claimed for these salts over the nitrate of silver are that they are less painful; that they are markedly destructive