412 VAGINA, DISORDERS OF THE where operation is contemplated. Amenorrhcea is frequently observed, and menstruation first returns after a successful plastic operation. In vesico-vaginal fistulse tlie whole of the urine dribbles away as it is formed, though it is not uncommon for a certain amount to be retained so long as the patient lies on the back. In uretero-vaginal fistulse half the ui'ine dribbles away from the vagina, and the other half is passed naturally by the urethra. It is some- times difficult to decide whether a patient with incontinence of urine is the subject of a urinary fistula or not, and in these cases the injection of a coloured fluid, such as milk and water in equal quantities, into the bladder, while at the same time the vagina is carefully observed through a Sims' speculum, easily enables a diagnosis to be made. The treatment of vesico-vaginal fistulte con- sists in a plastic operation, to which there are practically no contra-indications. In ex- ceptional cases where the closure of the fistula itself is impossible, the closure of the vagina below the seat of the fistula, or closure of the vulva, is performed, but in nearly every case the plastic operation is carried out on the fistula itself. The best time for the operation in a case arising after parturition is six to eight weeks after labour, at a time when the lochia has ceased, and the tissues are still vascular, but sufficiently firm to hold sutures. Attempts to close the fistula by means of cauterisation, as, for instance, by the actual cautery, nitrate of silver, chromic acid, caustic potash, and the like, have frequently been made ; these attempts are useless and harmful except in the case of small fistulee with edges still granulating, such as are seen soon after labour, or after a plastic operation where there is a little leaking in the line of union, or along a suture; in such cases the application of nitrate of silver is sometimes useful. In all ordinary cases plastic operation on the fistula itself, by the preparation of raw surfaces and the application of sutures, is the method to be employed. In many cases a preparatory course of treatment is necessary to get rid of complicating irritation and inflammation, especi- ally where these are due to the flow of alkaline putrid iirine, which at the same time precipi- tates lime salts on the raw and inflamed sur- faces ; here bland, demulcent drinks, the frequent use of irrigations to which some mild antiseptic is added, and the administration of a mixture containing oil of turpentine, salol, or urotropin, are useful. Where there is much cicatricial contraction of the surrounding tissues Bozeman recommended that a preparatory dilatation should be undertaken by means of glass bottles, rubber plugs, or cylinders, and incisions, but the scars may be much more advantageously dealt with by the knife and speculum in the first stage of the plastic operation. The operation may be described as consisting in three stages. The first stage consists in rendering accessible the fistula, the second in preparing the raw surfaces, and the third in applying the sutures. Fhst Stage.—The patient is placed in the lithotomy position ; occasionally the semi-prone or the knee-elbow position may be found prefer- able. The usual preparatory cleansing is made, and the fistula is then rendered accessible by some modification of the Sims' speculum and by lateral vaginal retractors ; the uterus may be pulled down by a volsella, or the edges of the fistula may be made prominent by a catheter passed through the urethra, or by a sponge held in forceps and passed through the fistula into the bladder. The urethra, which is always con- tracted in fistulse of any standing, should be dilated. Bands of scar tissue may be stretched by the pressure of speculum and retractors, or an incision may be made through their thick- ness. In stenosis of the vagina it is often most difficult to expose the fistula properly, especi- ally where it is adherent by scar tissue to the back of the pubes; in such cases the tissues surrounding the fistula may be loosened from the bones by an incision made external to the labium majus and carried down to the ramus of the pubes, or it may even be necessary to make an incision above the symphysis pubis, and in that way detach the borders of the fistula. Second Stage.—A raw surface may be ob- tained either by denudation or by the flap- splitting method The important points to aim at are that the raw surfaces shall be sufficiently broad, that they shall come together without tension on the sutures, and that they shall be free from scar tissue and bleed freely. A denu- dation may be narrow as in Simon's method, where an incision is made all round the borders of the fistula, embracing the whole thickness of the wall, vesical as well as vaginal; or it may be wide as in the so-called American method, where the vesical wall is not touched, but a broad strip, half an inch or more in width, is removed from the vaginal wall all round the orifice of the fistula. In any case it is best to first mark the outer border of the flap proposed to be removed by the scalpel; afterwards the flap may be cut off" by means of either scissors or sharp-pointed scalpel, the borders being held taut by fine sharp hooks or by hook forceps. If the ureter is present in the wall of the fistula it must be preserved. The method of preparing raw surfaces by flap-splitting presents many advantages. In it the wall of the bladder and that of the vagina are separated from each other for the required distance all round the fistula, and the two walls are then sutured separately. There is no loss of tissue, and if the operation fails the con- ditions for the next attempt are no worse; a very broad surface can be obtained for suturing,