239 UNDULANT FEVER perature rise. The only reason why this idea could have lasted so long, was the ever-present fear in the mind of the practitioner that he might be dealing with a case of enteric, as until the Widal test came into general use there was often every excuse for the most accomplished diagnostician being quite unable to decide whether he was dealing with a case of undulant or enteric fever. Now the effect of keeping cases, with pyrexia, lasting often continuously for months, on a diet of beef-tea and milk only, and constantly in bed, can hardly be imagined by any one who has not happened to see them. The patients are anaemic, emaciated, and listless, taking no interest in whether they get better or not, often with oedema of legs and feet, purpura, and even bed-sores. The sight of wards full of these miserable objects started the writer on a series of dietary experiments, with the result that the " generous diet" treatment is becoming very generally adopted in Malta, at any rate, by the naval and military medical officers on the station. It is remarkable how well cases of undulant fever will digest solid food, even with their tem- perature running fairly high. This is, in fact, one of the diseases where we may trust a good deal to the patient's own feelings in the matter of his dietary, and give him an ample diet when he declares himself equal to taking it. The writer's routine is to keep patients in bed for the first two or three days on fluid diet. Then as soon as the diagnosis is verified, and the tongue has cleaned after the administration of saline purgatives and chlorinated quinine mixture, if the patient's temperature is not going above 103° at night, he is placed on solid food in the shape of eggs, bread and butter, and rice pudding, as well as getting his two or three pints of milk; and again, a few days later, if this diet appears to be agreeing with him, he is given fish in addition, or chicken, or butcher's meat, according to his own taste in the matter. Of course, if the case is a severe one, with a temperature keeping continuously high and a dirty tongue, with probably diarrhoea, he is kept on fluid nourishment till his fever has altered its character and the temperature come down. Stimulants are not usually required in this disease, except when there is a failing heart, when they should be given freely. In the cases, however, which are running an ordinary course, with the temperature even going high, a pint of beer or stout is often useful, given with the solid food, as tending to increase the appetite and general well-being of the patient. Another important point in the treatment of undulant fever is to decide when a patient should be kept in bed and when allowed up. No general rule can be laid down about this, but the tendency is to keep them confined to bed much too long; in the writer's opinion, patients whose temperatures keep below 102° at night, benefit greatly by being allowed up for the greater part of the day. The great thing a patient must not do is to overtire him- self in any way, as this generally means a rise in temperature the same evening; but if that is avoided, the fact of being allowed up and sitting about in the garden seems to have a great effect in cheering the patient up, increas- ing his appetite, strength, and weight. Each patient's case, however, must be considered separately, both with regard to his getting up and amount of solid food, as some cases with temperatures not running higher than 102° seem to be profoundly affected by the toxins of the virus, whereas others, with temperatures running much higher, seem to suffer very little incon- venience from their disease. If the treatment described be followed, it will be found that patients seldom become anaemic, the percentage of cases with neuritis is diminished, the body-weight keeps up, and the patient generally is put into a much better condition to withstand all the changes brought about by a long-continued pyrexial disease. Ung'Ua.l.—Relating to a nail (Lat. unguis, a nail) or having the shape of a nail; e.g. the ungual phalanx (the terminal phalanx of a digit), and the ungual bone (lacrimal bone). Ungfuentum.—A semi-solid pharma- ceutical preparation made up of a fatty material and a drug, and intended to be applied to or rubbed into the skin; there are many unguenta in the B. P. See Prescribing (By the Cutaneous Surface, Ointments). Ung^ulates. See Lymphatic System, Physiology/ and Pathology {Distribution of Lym- phatic Glands in Animals). Uni-.—In compound words uni- (Lat. unus, one or single or sole) means one or solitary; e.g. uniaxial (having one axis), unicellular (composed of one cell), unilocular (having one cavity), uni- para (a woman who has borne one child), and unipolar (having one pole or process). Uniceptor*.—In immunity this term is given to a receptor which has a single uniting bond for combining with the toxine. See Im- munity, Recent Views. Unicornis.—Having a single horn, e.g. the uterus unicornis. See Uterus, Malforma- tions OF. Unila.tera.1.—Affecting one side only; e.g. unilateral paresis or paralysis, unilateral hypertrophy, unilateral hypersemia, etc. Uniovular.—Developed from a single ovum, e.g. uniovular or monochorionic twins. See Pregnancy, Multiple.