282 URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN as cerebral haemorrhage. In considering such cases, which are not altogether easy of explana- tion, the possible existence of antecedent al- buminuria must not be forgotten, and the special liability to cerebral hpemorrhage of patients who suffer from interstitial nephritis. In connection with epilepsy, the occasional occurrence of albuminuria in apparently healthy persons after violent exercise may be referred to. 6. Various poisons have the power of pro- ducing albuminuria, either by exerting a hsemo- lytic action and causing excretion of hfemoglobin, or, as is the case with cantharides, turpentine and phenol, by setting up a toxic nephritis. 7. There remains to be considered the so- called functional or physiological albuminuria. That minute traces of albumin are present even in normal urine has already been mentioned, and if, as Morner evidently believes, such traces have a renal origin, it would appear not unlikely that somewhat larger amounts, recognisable by the ordinary clinical tests, should occasionally be excreted apart from any serious deviation from conditions of health. Moreover, we might expect that individual differences would exist in the power of the kidneys to prevent the passage of albumin from the blood into the urine. Such a view gains in likelihood from the fact that functional albuminuria is usually inter- mittent, being called into existence by definite causes which differ in different cases. Some- times it is absent while the patient is recumbent, and reappears on his resuming an erect posture ; in other cases albuminuria only occurs after meals, in which connection it may be noted that the very free taking of imcoagulated albumin by the mouth is capable of producing a tem- porary albuminuria in a normal individual. Sometimes it follows a cold bath, and sometimes severe muscular exertion—causes which are active excitants of hsemoglobinuria—a suggestive fact. On the other hand, such influences exert a conspicuous effect upon the excretion of albumin by patients with actual renal disease, and there are many who hold that the so-called functional albuminuria is always pathological, and that persons who exhibit it, if not actually the subjects of renal disease, are likely to develop structural changes in the kidneys in the course of time. Possibly among the cases so classed some are of one kind and some of another. In childhood and early youth the tendency to al- buminuria not infrequently ceases entirely, but occasionally evidences of cardio-vascular changes are present which probably indicate an actual renal lesion. The slight albuminuria which often accom- panies the passage of oxalate crystals calls for special mention, as it may be that this is due to mechanical injury by the crystals, the slightest degree of the chain of events which may cul- minate in the profuse hsematuria which some- times results from the free consumption of rhubarb. The question of physiological albuminuria is still an open one, concerning which investigators are divided into widely separated camps, but its importance, especially in relation to questions of life insurance, admits of no question. 8. Lastly, albuminuria may occur indepen- dently of renal lesions as the result of ad- mixture of albumin below the kidneys derived from the renal passages or bladder, or from the admixture of other secretions. Urine which contains pus is always albuminous even when the formed elements have been filtered off, and there are many sources from which pus may find its way into the urine, as in pyelitis, cystitis, tubercular disease, and gonorrhoea. Chyluria offers another example of non-renal albuminuria. The admixture of semen is another cause, which may be recognised by the microscopic detection of spermatozoa, and in females admixture of vaginal secretion is a not uncommon cause of the presence of small quantities of albumin in the urine. The Mucus-like Substance of Urine.—That a true mucoid material occurs in small quantities in urine, and constitutes the main proteid constituent of the nubecula, has been demon- strated by K. A. H. Morner, but the bulk of the substance found in urine which has proper- ties like those of mucus is not of this nature. Huppert identified it as a neucleo-albumin, but in his more recent investigations Morner has shown that there exist in urine certain sub- stances, viz. chondroitin-sulphui'ic acid, nucleic acid and taurocholic acid, which have the power of combining with albumin which may be present, with the formation of chondralbumins, ueucleo-albumins, and tauralbumins. The al- bumin of normal urines is in such combinations, and as the combining substances are in excess, the addition of more albumin leads to further precipitation with acetic acid until all is exhausted, after which the excess of albumin remains imcombined. If any of the above acids be in excess their combination products may also be in excess, which probably explains the increase of mucin-like material in cases of jaundice, which may be attributed to an in- creased output of the bile acid. The presence of such compounds is indicated by the formation of a turbidity when the urine is acidified with acetic acid in the cold. The precipitation is favoured by dilution of the urine, as the salts present tend to prevent it, and the same procedure removes the risk of the precipitation of urates by the acid. The faint ring, situated 0-5 to 1 cm. above the junction of the liquids when Heller's test is performed, has been already alluded to, and this affords a further indication of the presence of the mucin-like substance. Increased excretion of such material has been