64 TOXICOLOGY Symptoms.—Heaviness in the head, giddiness, noises in the ears, tightness of the chest and an inclination to sleep are experienced, and, shortly, the muscles lose power, the individual falling to the ground. Subsequently, the symptoms are those of asphyxia. In a concentrated atmo- sphere of carbon dioxide, as in a well, or a vat charged with the gas, immediate loss of conscious- ness and muscular power, followed speedily by death, occurs, not unfrequently to workmen who incautiously venture into such an atmosphere. No one should undertake the function of rescuer without having the noose of a rope round his body, the free end being in charge of bystanders ; the omission of this precaution has often led to the multiplication of victims. Tost-mortem Appearances.—Those of death from asphyxia :—dark-coloured fluid blood, distended right heart and veins, hypereemia of the lungs, with frothy mucous in air-passages. Carbon Monoxide.—Poisoning from this gas may be due to the fumes given off by slow combustion stoves, or by coke burning in an open fireplace; the death of those who are in a building on fire, from which escape is cut off, is frequently due to cai'bon monoxide. Perhaps the most usual way in which poisoning by carbon monoxide occurs is from breathing air contaminated with coal-gas, or, more especially, with water-gas, which is now so commonly used either to adulterate or to replace coal-gas. An atmosphere containing I per cent of carbon monoxide would soon prove fatal to those who breathed it; much less might do so if breathed for a considerable time. Coal-gas contains from 4 to 8 per cent of carbon monoxide, whilst water- gas contains 40 per cent; when water-gas is mixed with coal-gas the percentage of carbon monoxide is reduced to about 16. Symptoms of Acitte Poisoning by Carbon Monoxide.—A sensation of heaviness in the head, dizziness, noises in the ears, quickening of the action of the heart and lungs, oppression on the chest, and occasionally vomiting, occur along with loss of muscular power; coma quickly supervenes, and convulsions may precede death. The pulse is small, the surface is cold and cyanotic, the conjunctivae are hypersemic, and the pupils somewhat dilated. The lips are often covered with froth. The toxic eff'ects of carbon monoxide are due to its affinity for haemoglobin, with which it combines, and for which it has an aflinity two hundred times greater than that of oxygen. The compound of carbon monoxide with haemo- globin is mvich more stable than that of oxygen with haemoglobin, and so long as haemoglobin is combined with carbon monoxide it is useless as an oxygen carrier; if, therefore, more than a certain amount of the haemoglobin be thus ren- dered functionless, death results from asphyxia due to arrest of internal respiration. The com- bination of carbon monoxide with haemoglobin takes place progressively with each respiration made in an atmosphere contaminated with the gas; the action is strictly cumulative, so that the duration of the exposure as well as the amount of gas present has to be taken into account when considering the eff'ects likely to be produced by a given admixture. Treatment.—The most important object is to keep the tissues supplied with a sufficiency of oxygen to enable life to continue until the carbon monoxide is dissociated from the haemo- globin with which it is combined ; for although, in a certain degree, carboxyhaemoglobin is a stable compound, it gradually parts with the carbon monoxide whilst circulating through lungs which are breathing pure air. Artificial respiration, therefore, along with the inhalation of oxygen, when available, should be persevered with for a long time. External warmth must be maintained and stimulants administered either by the rectum or hypodermically (in the form of ether), should the patient be unable to swallow. Bleeding, followed by the transfusion of an equal amount of defibrinated human blood, has been resorted to, but not so successfully as, on theoretical grounds, might have been ex- pected. Post-mortem Aj)pearances. — Externally, the appearance is very characteristic: in a well- marked case the surface of the body is rosy-red, and the post-mortem stains are bright pink in colour. On opening the body the colour of the tissues is equally striking ; the intestines are of a light red colour and the whole of the viscera are much brighter in colour than usual. The blood itself is cherry-red in colour, and, for the most part, is fluid. Froth may be found in the air-passages, and the lungs may be oedematous. The tissues and the blood from a case of poison- ing by carbon monoxide resist putrefactive changes for a much longer time than is usual after death from other causes. Blood that is charged with carbon monoxide yields a spectrum which closely resembles that of oxyhaemoglobin, the two bands being slightly nearer the violet end of the spectrum than those of oxyhaemoglobin. The critical difference lies in the fact that the spectrum of carboxyhaemo- globin undergoes no change on the addition of a reducing agent to the blood. When ammonium sulphide is added to ordinary blood, the oxy- haemoglobin is reduced and its spectrum is changed from two bands to one broad band ; the same reagent produces no effect on being added to blood which is fully charged with carbon monoxide. It is to be observed, however, that death usually takes place before the haemo- globin is fully saturated with carbon monoxide ; the result being that whilst the haemoglobin that is combined with carbon monoxide resists the action of a reducing agent, that which is uncombined is reduced in the ordinary way; therefore the spectrum yielded by the blood of