WRIST-JOINT INJURIES 545 muscles, nerves, and tendons were brought to- gether with catgut and the skin sutured. Free drainage was provided for, and the parts well dusted with boric acid and dressed with carbolised gauze, and the whole arm put into splints. " The parts healed by first intention, and at the end of three weeks massage and passive movement were regularly persevered in with the happiest results—a perfectly movable joint with no deformity. "Wm. Tiplady, L.R.C.P.E." Newcastle-on-Tyne. I quote these examples to prevent any error arising in the mind of any of my readers as to the reality of uncomplicated dislocations of the wrist joint. The Fractures of the Bones op the Forearm in the immediate neighbourhood of the wrist joint may be arranged as follows:— Colles' fracture. CoUes' fracture reversed. Epiphysary separation. Fracture of the radial styloid process. Longitudinal fracture of the lower end of the radius. Fracture of the ulnar styloid. Colles' fracture is commonly caused by a fall on the outstretched hand in walking or running; in falls from greater or less heights it occurs from the individual lighting on the hand or hands : in such falls as, for example, from the rigging of a ship to the deck. I have seen the radii broken symmetrically. I have seen the injury symmetrical, too, as the result of the following accident:—A man was helping at the taking down of a builder's scaffolding; as he reached up his open hands to receive a heavy scaffold pole which was being lowered horizontally, the rope which let down the pole was suddenly let go when the pole was almost in his grasp. The sudden blow to the wrists broke the radii of both fore- arms. Again, I have seen the injury caused in one forearm thus: A surgeon driving in a low phaeton sought to save his knees from the kicks of his restive horse. To do so he stretched his arm and hand to lean on the leather dash- board of the carriage while he withdrew his knees as far as possible: in this attitude the horse struck the dash-board opposite to the point where the surgeon's palm rested. A Colles' fracture was the result. It is quite easy to produce the fracture in the dead body after the manner of Nelaton, experimentally, by sawing oif the upper end of the ulna, dis- articulated from the humerus, flush with the upper surface of the head of the radius. If the hand be placed prone on the table in full extension at the wrist, and a smart blow is struck with a mallet on the section of the ulna vol. X and the head of the radius simultaneously, the fracture takes place. In these varied ways the fracture which results in the living or the dead is seated within half an inch or thereabouts transversely in the radius above its carpal surface. In some examples the fracture may incline with slight obliquity from the dorsal to the palmar surface of the bone. One point is, I think, fully proved by the examination of a large collection of specimens which I have be- fore me (120), that the break in the bone is never found to be as remote from the carpal surface as Colles located it. "This fracture takes place at about an inch and a half above the carpal extremity of the radius." ^ In making this statement Colles was probably led astray by mistaking the site of the spring- ing of the dorsal tumour of the deformed wrist for the site of the fracture. At the time he wrote (1814) he had made no dissection of the injury. Except in this one matter his account of the injury is unrivalled :—" The posterior surface of the limb presents a considerable deformity, for a depression is seen in the forearm, about an inch and a half above the end of the bone, while a considerable swelling occupies the wrist and metacarpus. Indeed, the carpus and base of the metacarpus appear to be thrown back- ward so much as on first view to excite sus- picion that the radius has been dislocated for- ward. On viewing the anterior surface of the limb we observe a considerable fulness, as if caused by the flexor tendojis being thrown forwards. This fulness extends upwards to about one-third of the length of the forearm, and terminates below at the upper edge of the annular ligament of the wrist. " The extremity of the ulna is seen projecting towards the palm and inner edge of the limb ; the degree, however, in which this projection takes place is different in different instances. If the surgeon proceed to investigate the nature of this injury he will find that the end of the ulna admits of being readily moved backwards and forwards. On the posterior surface he will discover by the touch that the swelling on the wrist and metacarpus is not caused entirely by an effusion among the softer parts; he will perceive that the ends of the metacarpal and second row of the carpal bones form no small part of it. This, strengthening the suspicion which the first view of the case had excited, leads him to examine, in a more particular manner, the anterior part of the joint, but the want of that solid resistance, which a dislocation of the radius forwards must occasion, forces him to abandon this notion, and leaves him in a per- plexing state of uncertainty as to the real nature of the injury; he will, therefore, en- deavour to gain some information by examining ^ Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. x., 1814, p. 183. 35