526 WHEY Whey); Invalid Feeding (Whey, Lemon, Wine, and Cream); Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Germany and A^bstria, Meran Whey Cure). Whipworm.—The trichocephalus dispar. See Parasites {Nematodes, Trichotrachelidae). Whiskey. See Alcohol (Spirits). Whispering: Pectoriloquy. See Lung, Tuberculosis op (Physical Signs, Vomica Formation). White Arsenic. See Toxicology (Arsenic). White Bread. See Physiology, Food AND Digestion (Cereals). White Commissure. See Spinal Cord, Medical (Anatomy). White Corpuscles.—Leucocytes. See Blood (Corpuscles). White Disease. — Leucodermia. See Skin, Pigmentary Affections of the (Leuco- dermia or Vitilego). White Flux. See Sprue (Synonyms). Whitehead's Gag*. See Palate (Cleft, Operation, Instrwnents). Whitehead's Operation. >S^ee Rec- tum, Diseases of (Hemorrhoids, Internal, Treat- ment) ; Tongue (Carcinoma, Operative Treat- ment). White Lead. See Lead (Plumbi Car- bonas). White Leg^.—Phlegmasia alba dolens. See PuERPERiuM, Pathology (Phlegmasia Alba Dolens); Typhus Fever (Complications and Sequelae., Venous Thrombosis). WhitelOW. See Fingers (Inflammatory Affections); Morvan's Disease ; Nails, Affec- tions of the ( Whitlows); Syringomyelia (Symp- toms, Painless Whitloivs). White Precipitate. —Hydrargy rum ammoniatum. See Mercury. White's Disease.—Keratosis follicu- laris. See Ichthyosis (Simplex, Symptoms). White Swelling:.— Tumor albus or tuberculous arthritis. "Whites."—Leucorrhoea (q.v.). Whooping--Coug:h. Historical Note ..... 526 Definition ...... 527 Morbid Anatomy . . . . .527 Symptoms 528 •Complications and Sequels . . . 529 Treatment ...... 530 Curative . . . . . .530 Hygienic. . . . . .531 Dietetic ...... 531 Local Medication .... 531 See also Alcohol (Indications); Athetosis (Causation); Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth (Hcemorrhage into the Labyrinth); Brain, In- flammations (Acute Encephalitis, Etiology); Bronchi, Bronchitis (Acute, Etiology); Con- vulsions, Infantile (Prognosis); Cough (Clini- cal Varieties); Disinfection (Incubation Periods); Epidemiology ; Infection (Quarantine Times); Leucocytosis (Lymphocytosis); Lung, Tuber- culosis of (Etiology); Meningitis, Tuberculous (Etiology) ; Mental Deficiency (Postfebrile); Nose, Post-Nasal Adenoid Growths (Etiology). Historical Note.—Whooping-cough has been a prevalent disease through many centuries. Von Rosenstein, who wrote in 1771, states that it began in France in 1414, having been im- ported from Africa or the East Indies. In the year 1580 it is reported that over 9000 children died in Rome from this disease alone. The earliest distinctive accounts of it were by Baillou in 1600 and Schenck in 1650. Prior to this period it does not appear to have been distinctly differentiated from such diseases as bronchitis or influenza. In the eighteenth century it is reported to have been generally epidemic over Europe, and we find the literature of the subject embraces the writings of many distinguished physicians at this time, more especially in England, Sweden, and Germany. Among the more important monographs were those of Hoffman, von Rosenstein, Stoll, Butler, Willis, and Biermer, the latter having written an account of all the epidemics during the century. It had all along been recognised as a contagious disease, and the general consensus of opinion tended to show that it was due to disorder of the digestive system, reflecting an irritation on the respiratory organs. During the nineteenth century the literature of the disease accumulated largely, especially in England, France, and Germany, and we find interesting treatises by such men as Trousseau, Barthez and Rilliet, Copland, Webster, Jahn, Krucken- berg, and many others. A mere epitome of the views of these and other well-known physicians during the last four centuries would occupy an extended space. Even at this time the older and more antiquated views of the nature and origin of the disease held their ground, with other additions to the many theories then prevalent. While the contagious nature of the complaint was fully recognised, no definite pathological facts had been adduced to form any foundation for the mass of theoretical reasoning. The theory which found most favour, especially among English physicians, was the neurotic one, whereas many of the