VICE 460 is true of our mental constitution. It is pitiful to think what scant consideration is given to the development of the endowments of the in- telligence, with what complacence men and women who are most censorious concerning sins of the flesh pass over their own and their neighbour's mental indolence, and how carefully our schools cram information into young brains that are not taught even the elements of mental skill. And the whole orgaiiism suff"ers for lack of the appropriate zest. A man who neglects his gift for logic, for mathematics, for imagina- tion and invention, or any other, not only loses the kindred result, the idea or project, which he might have reaped, but misses also the general inspiration derived from such exercises ; for a prudent use of the mind's parts has the greatest of all values of that kind which we have called dynamical. In pursuit of this physiological view of our subject it would be right that we should con- sider every function of the body and observe how its neglect or abuse reacted upon the whole organism and especially upon the nervous system, both as regards nutritive and dynamical values; then a second and larger volume should be devoted to a similar treatment of vices of the mind. But it is enough to suggest that course of study, and we must content ourselves with a few illustrative items. Other aspects we must also omit—etiology, for instance, which in every case is a relation between constitutional endow- ment and experience; pathology, which must refer to the secondary effects of vice, and becomes the pathology of the diseases which it has occa- sioned ; and therapeutics, which can only be an elaboration of very elementary and often im- possible advice. Nor shall we append a biblio- graphy, which must needs include more that is misleading and uninformed and prurient than what is wise and appropriate. The Alimentary System Vices of the palate alone would suffice for a topic which, if exhaustively discussed, would occupy many pages, and we must restrict our attention to a few points. One of these, and an important one, is the mistake of childish eating, a phrase which may serve to point the moral for the elderly, while it directs attention specially to the errors of youth. For it is beyond doubt that the great majority of children of the middle and upper classes are overfed. Indeed, it is ludicrous to remark how com- placently parents look on while their children obviously dilate their stomachs. The habit is one to which young people are prone because they can only conceive of the immediate value of food and drink ; that is, they fill themselves for the sake of the immediate satisfaction which follows. It is in part an over-indulgence of the palate, but the more important factor is prob- ably a mechanical one. The child is happy when he swells with food, unless a wise nature sends griping to spoil the pleasure of it; and he becomes so used to a degree of abdominal dis- tension that he is not happy without it. This question of quantity is as important as that of quality in diet. The chocolate and candy vice is of course a stupid error; but, on the whole, the food of the better classes is not bad if only they would take a good deal less of it. For, if you let a careless boy of nine or ten take his will of a tempting "meal, he will put as much into his stomach as would fill a football. Parents are therefore well advised who appreciate the capacity of a normal stomach; and when we are consulted about children who are not gaining enough weight, or whose complexion is unsatis- factory, so that, as the old saying goes, they " put their food into a bad skin," improvement will almost certainly follow if we prescribe only four meals daily, each of which can be contained in a breakfast cup. That lays upon the patient, and suggests to the child, the duty of having regard to the nutritive value of each meal; and small boys, who dislike the cure, will find some relief in a tightening of the waistband until the involution of their stomachs and abdominal walls is complete. That suggests the interesting reflection that perhaps the crusade against tight-lacing may explain why we now see fewer "starving girls" than formerly. Only rarely, in these days when athletics are in vogue, do we meet with the misguided young woman who is too tired of life, or too pious, or too genteel to enjoy her lunch. There is a type of woman, however, often spirited and surprisingly energetic, gay and charming in society, but in her private moments pale and tired, nervous, peevish, and depressed, wlio cannot and will not eat a wholesome meal. Good food and healthy exercise are her aversions; but she counts upon her tea in bed each morning, and when she reclines upon the lawn, or in her boudoir of an aftei'noon; savouries have a great attraction for her, liqueurs, dainty confections, and cigarettes ; and her unfortunate physician is periodically called upon to sanction phenacetin or antipyrin for a complication of nerves, dyspepsia, and menstrual headaches. That kind of vice must be put down with a strong hand in girlhood : and when it has become established, washing out of the stomach and the enforcement of the elementary rules of hygiene will either effect a remedy or rid the physician of an unsatisfactory patient. This brings us to the very difficult subject, the vice of drinking, concerning which it is almost impossible to speak wisely. One aspect of it, not generally understood and appreciated, we may first consider, because it is important in all serious vices. It may be described as the re- action of the conscience, an interesting physio- logical conception. Very often, perhaps usually, drinking dulls the conscience early in a career