TONGUE 36 such as chlorate of potash, Condy's fluid, or black wash diluted with lime water, is used. Mercurial ointment may be applied with benefit. If the pain is severe a powder containing iodo- form, borax, and a small quantity of morphia may be insufflated. Orthoform is also useful in relieving the pain. Before any of these local applications are used the soi-e must be thoroughly cleaned and dried. Irritating foods and fluids should be avoided, and any irregu- larities in the teeth must be attended to. When the diagnosis is doubtful and speedy im- provement does not follow these measures, the question of excision of the tongue must be considered. Tumours of the Tongue The tongue is very frequently the seat of malignant tumours. Innocent tumours and cysts are comparatively rare. Carcinoma As carcinoma is not only the most common, but also the most serious form of tumour met with in the tongue, and as it is often difficult to diagnose it from certain of the lingual affections which have just been described, it is convenient to consider it first. The tumour is nearly always of the squamous-celled or epitheliomatous variety. In the latest edition of their work on Diseases of the Tongue, Butlin and Spencer state that " glandular carcinoma has occurred in the sub- maxillary gland, but from the mucous glands on the surface of the tongue no instance seems to have been seen." Since this work was published the present writer has reported, in conjunction with Dr. T. Shennan, a case in which the disease began in the mucous glands. Epithelioma.—Statistics vary as to the relative frequency with which the sexes suff'er, but they appear to indicate that about six males suffer to one female. So far as the writer's experience goes these figures exaggerate the frequency with which epithelioma of the tongue occurs in women. The age at which the disease appears is usually from forty to sixty, but it has been met with as early as twenty in patients of both sexes. In these young subjects the growth of the tumour is rapid, the glands are early and extensively invaded, and the tendency to re- currence after operation is great. The actual cause of the disease is still un- certain, but there is good ground to believe that any long-continued irritation of tlie tongue, such as is produced, for example, by the rubbing of a jagged tooth or an ill-fitting tooth-plate, is a potent predisposing factor. The evil influence of tobacco smoke appears to have been exagger- ated, but there is no doubt that the friction of the rough end of a clay pipe against the tongue is conducive to the development of cancer. Chronic superficial glossitis (leukoplakia), syphi- litic fissures and scars, and chronic ulcers, are frequently present for some time before an epithelioma appears, and they seem to play some part in its causation. Butlin expresses himself strongly to the eff"ect that the repeated applica- tion of strong caustics to chronic inflammatory conditions of the tongue is a most important, and by no means uncommon, determining cause of cancer. As regards the development of the tumour, it may first appear in the form of an indolent ex- coriation, ulcer, or fissure, as a warty growth— particularly in association with a patch of leuko- plakia—or less frequently as a distinct hard nodule beneath the surface of the tongiie. In whichever of these ways the growth makes its appearance it passes through a stage—the so- called precancerous stage—in which inflammatory changes, such as infiltration with leucocytes, superficial ulceration, and certain changes in the epithelium of the nature of hypertrophy, or the formation of warty projections, alone are present. These conditions gradually give place to those characteristic of the epitheliomatous tumour, and ulceration soon begins. When the ulcer has formed, its base and the surrounding parts become characteristically hard and indurated, and the adjacent lymphatic glands soon become infected. Clinical Features.—The tumour is usually situ- ated on the anterior half of the tongue, and is more frequently on the edge than on the dorsum or under aspect. The clinical appearances vary widely. Sometimes the surface of the tumour is covered with a warty growth, sometimes it is excavated, forming a deep ulcer with raised nodular edges. In other cases the ulcer is smooth and its edges even and rounded. Ex- treme hardness of the edges and of the base of the ulcer is always a characteristic feature. Another characteristic feature is the fixation of the tongue, which prevents it being protruded beyond the teeth. This is especially marked when a growth starting on the edge of the tongue spreads towards the floor of the mouth and invades the lower jaw. There is constant gnaw- ing pain in the tongue, and severe spasmodic pain shooting towards the ear and along the branches of the fifth nerve. In the more ad- vanced stages of the disease there is profuse salivation, and the saliva may be tinged with blood. Owing to the fixation of the tongue the patient has difficulty in swallowing the saliva, and it continuously dribbles from the mouth. The speech is thick and indistinct, owing to the difficulty in moving the tongue. The breath is usually extremely foetid. Enlargement and hardness of the adjacent lymphatic glands are always early signs in cancer of the tongue. The particular group of glands first to become infected depends largely on the position of the primary growth. When the tumour is near the tip of the tongue, or in relation to the frenum and adjacent part of the