WATER 514 street watering, clothes washing, etc. At present, however, pure water can in nearly all cases be obtained in sufficient abundance as to render it more economical than a dual supply. In other words, it is cheaper to use pure water for muni- cipal purposes than to lay down a second system to provide an impure water. On the coast several towns have during recent years utilised sea water for road watering and sewer flushing. The terms pure and impure, as applied to water, are merely relative. A " pure" water does not occur in nature ; water always contains gaseous and solid matters in solution, and dead and living particulate matters in suspension, taken up from the air or from the soil, or from both. What these matters are will be discussed later. All natural waters, therefore, are more or less impure, and when the term " pure" is applied to water we simply mean that the water contains no substances which, either from their quantity or quality, are likely to endanger the health of the persons using it. It is in this sense that the word is used throughout this article. An impure water need not of necessity be actually injurious to health. Water contaminated with sewage matter is often used, even by considerable communities, for long periods without the slightest apparent ill effect, but there is always the risk of such a water becoming infected with the specific organism of enteric fever, and possibly of cholera and other diseases; hence its use is attended with a certain amount of danger, and it does not, therefore, come under the definition of a "pure " water. It is impure and unsafe. The distinc- tion is important, as the lay mind finds it diffi- cult to understand that a water which is being used and does not cause any apparent injurious effects may still be impure. The nature of the substances found in water will be best understood if the source from tvhich our supplies are obtained is briefly considered. All water is originally derived from the ocean. Roughly speaking, three-fourths of the surface of the globe is covered with water. In tropical regions the water evaporates into the superin- cumbent air with great rapidity. Anstey cal- culates that on an average about 700 gallons of water is evaporated every minute from each square mile of ocean surface, and Symons de- clares that "all the coal which men could dig from the earth in many centuries would not give out enough heat to produce by the evapora- tion of water the earth's rain - supply for a single year." Winds blowing over a large expanse of ocean, therefore, become laden with moisture, and as soon as a cooling effect is produced by the proximity of land, especially if elevated, rain descends. For these reasons the rainfall is heavier on the western side of the British Islands than on the eastern, and greater in mountainous districts than on plains. The amount of rain which falls is measured by the rain-gauge, and expressed in inches of depth. A rain-fall of one inch in depth corresponds to about 4| gallons on a square yard, or 22,620 gallons on an acre. Rain as it falls is the purest water which occurs in nature. It con- tains in each gallon about 8 cubic inches of gases, chiefly nitrogen and oxygen, with a little carbonic acid, and traces of saline matter, common salt, sulphates, etc., together with particles of suspended matter, soot, dust, microbes, etc., all of which have been taken from the air. The water which falls during the first portion of a shower, especially after a drought, is always more impure than that which falls later. As usually collected from the roofs of houses rain water is generally very filthy. Ordure of birds, soot, vegetable debris, etc., accumulate on the tiles or slates and in the spouts during the dry seasons, and are washed into the rain-water receptacle with the first heavy shower. These offensive matters undergo solution and putrefaction, but in some cases an apparently good potable water results. Rain water so collected is, however, unpalatable and unsightly, and too impure for drinking purposes. A much better water can be obtained if a rain-water " separator " is used. By attach- ing this little apparatus to the down spout the first portion of each shower, that portion which brings with it all the filth, is cast into the drain, whilst the water collected after is passed into the receptacle placed to receive it. It is unfortun- ate that in very few instances can enough rain water be collected from a roof to supply the requirements of the house. In summer time many slight showers occur which add little to the store, the water evaporating almost as quickly as it falls. When heavy downpours occur a good deal is wasted, the whole not being collected by the gutters or troughs. The amount which may be collected is from one- half to two-thirds of the rainfall. The area covered by the roof of an average cottage does not amount to more than 35 square yards. With an average rainfall 15 to 18 inches could be collected. This would amount to about 3000 gallons in the year, or 9 gallons per day. To collect this quantity a storage tank of about 1500 gallons' capacity would be required. With a smaller tank water would run to waste in the rainy season, and the accumulation would not suffice to tide over a dry summer. Tanks of brickwork lined with cement, or of slate, are the best. Galvanised iron tanks are largely used, but the water drawn therefrom usually contains a trace of zinc, which, however, is apparently harmless. Lead tanks yield a taste of metal to rain water, and as lead is a cumulative poison, this metal is not to be recommended. Rain water collected from the surface of rocks in mountainous regions forms one of the best sources of supply for large communities. The water may either be collected in natural lakes,