88 TRADES, DANGEROUS an unusually anxious character. It is known as saturnine encephalopathy. A lead-worker who, perhaps, has previously suffered from colic and mild wrist-drop, or who, perchance, has never exhibited any of these symptoms, except com- plained of severe headache, is suddenly seized with convulsions and unconsciousness. At the time of the seizure he may be in the factory. He is taken to a hospital, where it is found that the convulsions keep recurring, and although consciousness is not completely restored, he moans as if in pain, and is restless. In the urine, which is drawn off by catheter, there may be albumen; or if the patient is young and has only worked a few months in the lead factory, the urine may be found to be quite healthy bvit scanty. The pulse is small, and of fairly high tension. In one of the epileptiform seizures the patient perhaps dies, usually about the third day; or it may be that he recovers, and as con- sciousness is regained, the patient complains that he cannot see. This loss of vision may be temporary or permanent. On examining the fundus oculi ophthalmoscopically, well-marked signs of neuro-retinitis are observed, also retinal haemorrhages; and as these occur in patients whose urine is often free from albumen, they are probably the result of the action of lead itself upon nerve-tissue, rather than, as some phys- icians maintain, ursemic in origin. In the milder forms of lead-poisoning there may be temporary amblyopia, without any marked changes in the disc and retina, a condition probably due to a toxic effect produced by the lead upon the cerebral visual centres. Premonitory to an attack of lead encephalopathy in females, it is no uncommon thing for them to exhibit what appears to be ordinary hysterical symptoms. This form of toxic hysteria is extremely fatal, and is apt to throw even careful observers off their guard. Out of the hysterical symptoms convulsions develop, and within three days the patient may be dead. Delirium of a very acute character, accompanied by high temperature, often follows an apparent recovery from lead encephalopathy, but it wears out the strength of the patient, and he dies within a few weeks afterwards ; or after the acute delirium subsides there remain delusions which oblige the patient to be removed to an asylum. Females are more predisposed to lead encephalopathy than males. Pathology. — In acute lead encephalopathy there may be practically no definite morbid anatomy. The surface of the brain may look dry and the convolutions feel hard and firm ; the blood-vessels may be injected, and on slicing the brain the tissue may be extremely pale or watery, as in uraemia. On microscopical examina- tion of the liver there may be signs of commenc- ing intercellular cirrhosis. The kidneys in acute lead-poisoning in young subjects exhibit signs of commencing parenchymatous nephritis; in chronic cases there is well-marked interstitial nephritis. In chronic lead-poisoning with par- alysis the muscles are pale and wasted : the nerves exhibit a thickening of their sheath and an increase of their interfibrillar connective tissue; tlie axis-cylinder is attenuated, it is interrupted here and there in its course, a condi- tion which Gombault described as "periaxial" or " segmentary neuritis," in which healthy and diseased portions of nerve-fibre alternate with each other. The spinal cord is for the most part healthy. Occasionally distinct changes have been observed in the anterior horns of grey matter which lead to shrinkage of the large multipolar cells situated there, a circum- stance to which many pathologists attribute the progressive atrophy of the affected muscles. Diagnosis.—If to the fact of acute pain in the abdomen there be added ansemia, history of the patient having been exposed to lead, also the presence of a blue line on the gums, the diag- nosis of lead colic is pretty certain. Appendi- citis as a possibility should not be forgotten. The bilateral character of the wrist-drop sug- gests poisoning of some kind, and the fact that the paralysis affects the wrist and not the legs is in favour of lead as opposed to arsenic and alcohol as the cause. Saturnine encephalopathy might be mistaken for ursemia, especially when there is albuminuria. The presence of a blue line on the gums would be an aid in the diag- nosis, and in any doubtful case the urine should be tested for lead. Prognosis.—Lead colic is, practically speaking, always recovered from : less than 1 per cent die. Recovery from saturnine paralysis is slow and often incomplete; yet I have seen complete recovery even in the worst cases when the muscles of the arms, legs, trunk have all been involved. The most serious type of lead- poisoning is that known as saturnine encephalo- pathy. In the chronic form of plumbism, where the kidneys are affected, the tendency is for the symptoms to get worse, and for the patient to die from cerebral hsemorrhage and convulsions. Treatment—Preventive.—-Where plumbism is due to drinking contaminated water the re- commendations made at the commencement of this paper should be followed. It cannot be too much insisted upon that lead-poisoning is much more likely to be caused by the continual entrance into the system of very minute quantities of lead than by one or two large doses. For industrial lead-poisoning the Home OflSce has drawn out a series of regulations, the main points in which are personal cleanliness, washing of the hands and also of the face before eating, for lead dust collects upon the beard and moustache, the wearing of respirators, and periodical medical examination of the workers. Acidulated drinks are provided in many of the factories, but too much reliance must not be placed upon these. They contain Epsom salts