TREMOK 107 inferred, too, from a consideration of the dis- eases in which some forms of tremor occur, that the same nervous elements are influenced by the altered metabolism associated with degenerative processes as in fatigue and senility, or with modified conditions of internal secretion, as for instance in Graves' disease, and possibly, ac- cording to some authors, in paralysis agitans. It is not safe, however, to do more than suggest the possibility of this connection. Treatment.—In most cases the treatment of tremor is the treatment of the disease of which it is one of the physical signs; in others, such as paralysis agitans, where it is often a source of great distress to the patient, attempts directed to its alleviation are seldom very successful. Injections of hydrobromate of hyoscine are sometimes helpful in reducing the severity of the condition, but most other sedatives are quite ineffectual. Galvanism may at times be used with advantage, and the administration of thyroid gland in small doses, gradually increased, is worthy of trial. Fibrillary Tremor.—This condition should not, except for its name, be mentioned in this con- nection. The name has been applied to waves of contraction which can be seen passing over the individual fibres of a muscle in an early state of degeneration in cases of neuritis or of progressive muscular atrophy, and which do not result in movements of the parts affected. They are usually made more noticeable by the exposure of the overlying skin to cold air, as in stripping the patient, but are unimportant except for purposes of diagnosis. Trendelenburgf Posture. — The dorsal decubitus with the trunk raised at an angle of about 45° and the legs and feet hang- ing over the lower end of the table ; the weight of the body thus rests on the shoulders and the back of the knee joints; it is carried out by raising the lower end of the bed or operating- table by means of two stools (imder the feet of the table) or by a special mechanism ; and it is useful in all operations where it is desirable to bring the pelvic organs into view ; e.g. hysterec- tomies, myomectomies, oophorectomies, etc. See Ovaries, Diseases of {Ovariotomy). TrepcLtl.—A trephine (Gr. rpvTrdui, I bore or pierce through) or instrument for cutting a circular piece of bone out of the cranial vault. Trephine.—A trepan (q.v. supra), the operation in which the circular piece of bone is cut out of the cranial vault being termed trephining. See Brain, Surgery of (Trephin- ing) ; Labour, Obstetric Operations (Embry- otomy) ; Spine, Surgical Affections op (Fracture of the Spine, Treatment by Laminec- tomy). Tria,Cid.—An acid or alcohol containing three atoms of hydrogen which can be replaced by a base. Tri£lCicl St£lin.—In histology this name is given to Ehrlich's triple stain which contains one basic and two acid dyes, viz. methyl-green, orange-green, and acid fuchsin; the tissues which have an affinity for acid dyes are stained by this mixture the colour of one of the acid constituents, the basic structures take the colour of the basic dye, and those having an equal affinity for both have the colour of the neutral principle. (Da Costa.) Triakaidekaphobi a.—An insane fear of the number thirteen (Gr. TpiaKaiSeKa, thirteen). Triang'le.—The name given in descriptive anatomy to various regions of the body which have this three-sided shape; e.g. Scarpa's tri- angle of the thigh, the triangles of the nech, HesselbacKs triangle (above Poupart's ligament), the triangle of Petit, etc. See Hernia (In- guinal, Direct). Triang'U lar. — Having a three-sided shape, e.g. the triangular ligament of the pelvic floor (see Generation, Female Organs of, Pelvic Floor), a triangular bandage (see First Aid, Improvised Dressings), and the triangularis sterni muscle. Tri-.—In compound words tri- as a prefix means three or relating to three; e.g. tribasic (a compound having three atoms of hydrogen replaceable by basic atoms), tricornis (having three horns), etc. TricephalUS.—The extraordinarily rare teratological type in which a double foetus carries three heads; a triple monster. A case of this kind was reported by Reina and Galvagni in 1834; there were three heads set upon two united trunks, supported by two lower limbs, there were three upper limbs and a single set of male genitals; all the heads had to be per- forated during labour, and two of them amputated before the uterus could be emptied. Triceps.—Having three heads ; the name given to the muscle of the upper arm which extends the forearm. See Muscles, Traumatic Affections of (Rupture of Triceps); Tabes Dorsalis (Symptoms, Abolition of Triceps-Jerk); Tendon-Jerks (Triceps-Jerk). TricKiauxiS.—Hypertrichiasis or exces- sive hairiness. See Hirsuties. Trichiasis.—A morbid state of the eye- lids in which the eyelashes, being abnormally placed, irritate the ocular conjunctiva and cornea. See Conjunctiva, Diseases of (Trachoma); Eyelids, Affections of (Defects in Position, Trichiasis).