UTERUS, DISPLACEMENTS OF THE 330 abdominal pressure will force the parts down and produce herniation. This descent is favoured by the lax and toneless condition of the utero-sacral ligaments, and may occur when the sacral segment is unbroken and its power of resistance unimpaired. In old women the whole pelvic floor may be wanting in tone, and a slight increase of abdominal pressure may cause the displacement. And, conversely, the resistance of the entire pelvic floor may be normal, but the intra-abdominal pressure may be so enor- mously increased, as when the abdomen is occupied by large tumours, that the whole FlO. 2.—Position of the organs consetiuent on displacement of pelvic floor. displaceable portion may be forced out of the pelvis. The order in which the placed structures appear at the vulva is as follows : —The lower end of the anterior vaginal wall appears iirst, and then the whole of the anterior vaginal wall from below upwards. This descent is brought about by intra-abdominal pressure separating the anterior vaginal wall from the posterior surface of the bladder. With the descent of the anterior vaginal wall the urethra and posterior wall of bladder also descend, from the fact that the urethra is incorporated with the lower part of anterior vaginal wall. As the uterus is attached to the upper part of the vagina, it necessarily now descends, and in its descent it peels from above downwards the posterior vaginal wall from the anterior rectal wall. AVhen the external os reaches the vulva, the posterior vaginal wall is bent upon itself, and as the uterus descends farther the whole of the posterior vaginal wall becomes everted, with the exception of that portion attached to the perineal body which is iixed to the rectum. So when prolapse is complete the whole uterus, the anterior vaginal wall, the urethra, part of the bladder, the posterior vaginal wall, and the peritoneum are all outside the vulva. Thus the whole of the anterior segment accompanied by the uterus is outside the vulva. Let us consider these different structures in their new situation (Fig. 2). Urethra and Bladder.—-The direction of the urethra is altered from downwards and forwards to upwards and forwards, and is completely extra-pelvic. The base of bladder forming cystocele is outside the vulva, and is beneath the urethra, conse- quently one of the symptoms the patient complains of is dribbling away of urine. The Anterior Vaginal Wall.—The whole extent of it is outside, and is subjected to irritation from exposure and friction. The result is that it becomes hypertrophied. The epithelium becomes thickened, re- sembles skin, the rugae are undone, apt to get horny, or to ulcerate, often covered with a membrane. In long-standing cases changes take place in the bladder walls. They become hypertrophied and catarrhal, and not infrequently the catarrh extends to the ureters and pelvis of the kidney. In the prolapsed pouch of the bladder the urine becomes stagnant, and may lead to the formation of calculi. The posterior vaginal wall assumes a similar condition to the anterior. The Uterus.—The external os uteri is situated at the lower anterior part of the protrusion, the body of the uterus lies above it and posteriorly, and can be felt by the finger and thumb between the vaginal walls. The external os uteri in some cases barely projects beyond the general surface of the pro- trusion, in other cases the cervix is greatly hypertrophied, and is frequently ulcerated. If it is lacerated the lips may be everted and eroded, and the mucosa of the cervical canal thickened and pouring out a copious secretion. While the body of the uterus will in many in- stances be found enlarged, with thickened walls and hypertrophied endometrium, in others, especially in women who have passed the meno- pause, it may be quite small. The peritoneum is driven down. The anterior and posterior uterine reflections are undone, so tlie