TOXICOLOGY 50 modes of administration of poisons tend to modify their action. Arsenic in the gaseous form, as arsenietted hydrogen, is much more virulent than ordinary white arsenic. Strych- nine injected subcutaneously acts more rapidly than when taken by the mouth. When a poison is swallowed its action tends to be materially modified by the presence or absence of food in the stomach : if the stomach is empty, a corro- sive poison expends its full power on the coats of the viscus; whilst if it contains a mass of solid food some of the corrosive action of the poison is expended on the food. Absorption takes place more slowly in the full than in the empty stomach and intestines ; hence the action of a fatal dose of strychnine may, for this reason, be delayed or accelerated. The Diagnosis of Poisoning.—An important indication is afforded by the sudden occurrence of acute symptoms in a person previously in his usual health. It is to be remembered, how- ever, that a pathological condition may declare itself abruptly and give rise to the suspicion of poisoning : rupture of a previously unsuspected gastric ulcer, or immediate intestinal obstruc- tion, are diseases of this type. Again, it is to be noted that the early symptoms produced by many poisons may simulate those of disease : arsenic produces symptoms which have been mistaken for those of cholera or of gastro- intestinal catarrh. Another circumstance indi- cative of poisoning is the occurrence of unusual symptoms directly after eating and drinking. Here, again, care must be exercised not to mistake the effects due to changes in the food itself, whereby toxic products have been formed, for those of an added poison. Even wholesome food, which is difficult of digestion when eaten hastily by a person who has fasted longer than usual, may give rise to vomiting and pain which closely resemble the symptoms produced by an irritant poison. If, after partaking of a common meal, a number of people are simultaneously attacked with peculiar symptoms, there is ground for suspecting the pi'esence of poison in the food, which may be due either to noxious substances which have been incorporated with it, or to the food itself being tainted. When a medical man is in attendance on a case and suspects poisoning, he should note in writing all that he observes, and should take possession of any suspicious substances in order that they may be chemically examined. In addition, specimens of urine, feces, and vomit should be submitted to analysis. In cases of doubt the patient may be safeguarded by securing the presence of trained nurses, day and night, with instructions to prepare all food, to administer it and the medicine with their own hands, and not to leave the patient when on duty. Symptoms op Corrosive and Irritant Poisoning.—A corrosive poison is one that destroys tissue by direct chemical action ; when administered in a dilute form a corrosive may act as an irritant. In the act of swallowing a corrosive poison an immediate and violent pain is produced, which extends from the mouth down the oesophagus to the stomach, from whence it radiates over the abdomen. Uncon- trollable retching and vomiting occur within a few minutes, the vomited matter consisting, at first, of the contents of the stomach, and subsequently of shreds of mucous membrane, coagulated mucus, and blood, the colour of the blood being often altered by the chemical action of the poison. There is intense thirst, with difficulty or impossibility of swallowing, each attempt to swallow causing increased vomiting. The patient is in a condition of extreme collapse; the surface is pale, cold, and clammy; the features are pinched, and the eyes present a terrified look. The voice is hoarse, almost inaudible; the mouth is filled with shreds of membrane and ropy mucus; the lips are swollen, and, along with the chin, probably show signs of the local action of the poison. The mouth and tongue exhibit indications of corro- sion, the colour of the surface varying with the nature of the corrosion. The abdomen is usually distended. The breathing is laboured and noisy; attempts to clear the air-passages give rise to a distressing, hoarse, futile cough. The pulse is thread-like, of low tension, and often very rapid. The bowels are confined. The urine is diminished in amount, partly owing to the rejection of fluid by the persistent vomiting, and partly to the extremely low arterial tension. The mind usually remains clear to the end; death—which in some instances is preceded by convulsions—takes place in a condition of extreme collapse within twenty-four to thirty-six hours. An irritant poison is one which by its specific action sets up inflammation in the digestive tract. A pure irritant does not produce corro- sion, though some substances classed as irritants may act as corrosives. When a substance that acts solely as an irritant is swallowed, the symp- toms do not come on in the act of swallowing, nor immediately after, as is the case with corrosives; an interval of from half an hour to an hour or more elapses. Taking a metallic irritant as a type, there may or may not be an astringent metallic taste perceived when the poison is swallowed. After a short interval a hot, burning sensation, with a feeling of con- striction, is felt in the throat; the burning- sensation is felt in the stomach, and it rapidly develops into severe pain, which spreads over the abdomen. Violent and persistent vomiting and purging occur, the discharged matter often becoming blood-stained. There is intense thirst, and attempts to allay it provoke further vomit- ing. The purging is accompanied by excessive tenesmus; the motions may be blood-stained, or they may be like rice-water. Collapse sets