83 TRACHEA, AFFECTIONS OF THE accurately in the middle line, and not to open the trachea till its rings are recognised—are observed the difficulty is reduced to a minimum. (b) Distended veins may be found crossing the line of incision. These should, as far as possible, be secured and divided between forceps; but too long a time should not be spent in arresting venous bleeding, for this will cease as soon as the trachea is opened. (c) In young, fat children there is very little space left above the thyroid isthmus. In this case the isthmus should be divided in the middle line. The bleeding will be slight, and can at once be stopped by applying forceps to each half of the isthmus. (d) The tube may be introduced between the pre-tracheal fascia and the trachea. To avoid this divide the fascia freely enough, and intro- duce the tube carefully and without hurry. (e) One limb of the outer tube may be put into the trachea, and one between the trachea and the fascia. This is avoided if ordinary care is taken. The two last occurrences ai'e recog- nised by the fact that no air passes through the tube, in which case the tube must be taken out and reintroduced. After-Treatment. —The patient should be in a bed surrounded by curtains, and in a tempera- ture of from 62° to 65° F. A steam tent may be used, but is not necessary. A covering of six or eight layers of gauze should be kept over the tube and frequently renewed. Membrane or secretion coughed up through the tube is to be caught on a mop, and must on no account be allowed to slip down the tube again. The inner tube should be removed whenever it becomes blocked, and, under any circum- stances, once every two hours at least. Before being put back it must be cleaned by boiling in soda solution. Nourishment must be given frequently. Blunt hook retractors, tracheal dilators, and an extra tube must always be at hand. On the fifth or sixth day an attempt should be made to leave the tube out. When this is done the surgeon should be near at hand for some time, as the tube often has to be replaced. The remarks in this article apply chiefly to the operation when done for diphtheritic laryn- gitis. When it has been done for some condi- tions, e.(/. growths or stenosis of the larynx, the tube may, of course, have to be worn perman- ently. Difficulties met with in attempting to leave out the Tube.—1. Fright.—For a few minutes after removal of the tube the patient breathes through the tracheal wound, and directly the edges of the wound fall together the child feels the slight obstruction to inspiration and becomes frightened. A spasm of the glottis occurs, and the tube has to be replaced. This may occur several times. Treatment.—Use a tube with an opening on the convexity, plug the outer end of the tube, and the patient unconsciously breathes through the larynx, and the tube can be removed. 2. Granulations may form in a mass at the junction of the trachea and larynx, or in the trachea on a level with the wound. Treatment. — Use a well-fitting tube with a movable shield, and leave it out as soon as possible. If granulations should form touch them with silver nitrate. It may be necessary to frequently pass a flexible tube from the wound up through the glottis. 3. Stenosis of the larynx, varying from partial adhesion of the cords to complete blocking. In the former case dilate the rima-glottidis after division of the cicatricial tissue. In the latter thyrotomy must be done, and the cicatricial tissue cut away. In both conditions relapse is frequent, and so the tube has to be permanently worn. 4. Impairment of function of the laryngeal muscles, which may take one of the following forms:— (a) Diphtheritic paralysis of the laryngeal muscles, which is more prone to affect the ab- ductors of the cords than the adductors. (6) The wearing of the tube interrupts the normal rhythm between the actions of the laryngeal muscles and those of inspiration. In both these conditions the treatment is to wait, for the muscles will regain their functions in time. 5. In one instance, in which it was found im- possible to leave out the tube, the writer found that the trachea was compressed by a large amount of cicatricial tissue formed round the tracheotomy wound. Tracheal Tugging. See Trachea. 8ee also Aneurysm {Neck, Symptoms) ; Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm of {Symptoms, Diagnosis). Trac h e i t is.—Inflam mation of the trachea. See Trachea {Inflammations). Traciieiectomy.—Excision of the cervix uteri (Gr. Tpii-xri^^o';, throat or neck). Trache I ism us.—Spasmodic contraction of the muscles of the neck. TfachelO-.—In compound words trachelo- (Gr. Tpdxrj^o?, neck) means relating to the neck, i.e. either the neck proper or the neck (cervix) of the uterus or bladder ; there are many words so formed, e.g. trachelo-acromial, trachelo-breg- matic, trachelo-cystitis, trachelodynia (pain in the neck), trachelo-mastoid, trachelo-scapidar, etc. Tracheioparasitus. — A group of double monsters in which the parasitic twin fcEtus is inserted on the neck of the autosite, e.g. a supernumerary limb attached to the neck, an epignathus, etc.