TYPHOMANIA 203 Typhomania. See Delirious Mania {Synonyms). Typhopneumonia.—Pneumonia oc- curring as a complication of typhoid fever. See Typhoid Fever (Complications and Sequelae). TyphotOXin. — A toxine (C7H17NO2) obtained (by Brieger) from cultures of the typhoid bacillus; it causes death with lethargy and paralysis. Typhus Fever. Definition ...... 203 History 203 Etiology 203 Dissemination ..... 204 Incubation Period .... 204 Invasion Period .... 204 Period of Advance . . . .204 Stage of Defervescence . . .206 Convalescence . . . . .206 Complications and Sequels . . . 207 Varieties ...... 207 Diagnosis 207 Prognosis and Mortality . . . 208 Treatment ...... 209 See also Breath (Offensive Odour); Bronchi, Bronchitis [Etiology); Epidemiology {History, Extinction of Typhus); Hydropathy {Cooling Pack in Typhus); Infection {Quarantine); Lungs, Gangrene of (Etiology); Miliaria (Symptoms); Puerperium, Pathology, Septi- caemia (Diagnosis); Purpura (Symptomatic); Eelapsing Fever (Diagnosis). Syn.—French, Typhus exanthematique ; German, Fleckfieber. Definition.—An acute specific infectious fever, prevailing in epidemics, and usually associated with conditions of overcrowding and destitution. Characterised by a sudden onset, a petechial rash, marked nervous symptoms, with great mental confusion and physical prostration, and by a rapid defervescence on or about the four- teenth day. History.—Typhus fever is a disease of great antiquity. Murchison has identified with it the pestilence at Athens, so graphically described by Thucydides. From that time onward we have abundant evidence of its frequent epidemic prevalence, and of the severe mortality caused by it. In the sixteenth century the descrip- tions of the fever stand out more clearly; Fracastorius, for instance, in 1528, describing it wonderfully accurately under the title of "Febris pestilens." Under this name it was common during the seventeenth century, and was particularly fatal during the Thirty Years' War, the camps of those days lending them- selves especially to its propagation. It was apparently common in Great Britain,—the "black assizes," where judges, jurymen, and | spectators all sickened, being undoubtedly due to its contagion. Later, the armies during the Napoleonic wars suffered severely from its ravages, and, so recently as in the Crimean campaign, French and English alike lost heavily by typhus. During the nineteenth century there were several great epidemics in Great Britain and Ireland. They mainly appeared at periods when destitution and famine had lowered the resistance of the population, and they were not infrequently preceded by epidemics of relapsing fever. The disease in many instances appears to have been imported from Ireland to England. Scotland usually suffered markedly, and the fever seems to have persisted there longer than in England. In fact, at the present day, though cases occasionally occur in London, and there has been an outbreak recently in Liverpool, typhus is seldom seen in England, whereas Glasgow usually can show some dozens of cases every year, and the other Scottish large towns have not infrequently small outbreaks. Modern sanitation has taken away all chance of the fever again assuming epidemic proportions in Great Britain, and its interest is now very largely historical. There is no fever, however, which presents a more perfect picture of acute toxtemia; and it must be remembered that the "typhoid state," that poisoned condition so dreaded in acute disease, derives its name from its resemblance to the normal symptoms of typhus. Etiology.—Murchison believed that under certain conditions this fever could originate de novo. Such a view is hardly tenable at the present day, and it is almost certain that typhus is caused by a micro-organism, which possibly may require the existence of certain favourable circumstances for its development. Unfortunately up to the present time, although different germs have been discovered by various observers, no proof is forthcoming that any one of them is the true cause of the fever. A diplococcus has been described by Dubief and Bruhl, and another by Balfour and Porter, but the organisms apparently differ in their cultural peculiarities, and inoculation experiments on animals have given negative results. The most important of the predisposing causes of typhus is undoubtedly ove^xrowding. Whenever large numbers of persons live with- out sufficient air-space, whether in prisons, in ships, in camps, or in the slums of a city, the disease is likely to appear. The names given to it in past times—gaol fever, camp fever, and ship fever—give an idea of the conditions in which it is likely to arise. Destitution and famine are also given as predisposing causes. The first compels large numbers to crowd in one-roomed dwelling-houses, the second predis- poses to the attack of any infection by lowering the resistance of persons exposed, and to this