UMBILICUS, DISEASES OF 221 which are proUferating. Beneath these are connective tissue and unstriped muscular fibres. The tumours in every way resemble those which surmount a minute feecal fistula, and are evi- dently identical with them except that the part connecting them with the Meckel's diverticulum is impervious. They can be removed by liga- ture or by the knife. Three cases of umbilical polypus of similar naked-eye appearance showed microscopically the structure of the pyloric end of the stomach ; in one (Tillmanns) the secretion was abundant, acid, contained pepsin, and digested the skin. Other innocent tumours are rare. Angeio- mata occur, and sometimes surmount a con- genital hernia; dermoid and sebaceous cysts have been seen and sometimes suppurate. Empty hernial sacs which have been tied off may form serous cysts at the navel. Lymphangeio- mata have been described, sometimes in associa- tion with ovarian cysts. Papillomata, fibromata, and niyxomata also occur, but with the above must be regarded as pathological curiosities. Subperitoneal lipomata are common near the umbilicus, making their way to the subcutane- ous tissue along the track of one of the perforat- ing arteries. Malignant tumours are more frequent than benign : scars are not infrequently the seat of malignant change, especially when subjected to the irritation resulting from accumulation of dirt and sebaceous material. Of primary growths epithelioma is the commonest, not differing in appearance from similar growths elsewhere, but glandular enlargement is uncommon, while the tumour has a tendency to grow deeply, invading the peritoneum and intra-abdominal organs. In some cases the abdominal wall around is hard- ened by the growth, forming a kind of cancer en cuirasse. Secondary carcinomatous growths at the umbilicus are not uncommon, and sometimes invade a hernial sac, the growth spreading from the contained omentum to the sac wall. The primary growth may be in the stomach, intes- tine, colon, ovary, uterus, peritoneum, or liver. A liver growth may travel to the umbilicus along the lymphatics of the round ligament. Sometimes the intra-abdominal growth is latent. Sarcomata occur at the umbilicus, but are very rare. Rodent ulcer has been described. With regard to treatment, primary growths are removed by an elliptical incision, and the same mode of treatment is applicable to secon- dary growths, if advanced and troublesome, the operation giving an opportunity for exploration of the abdominal cavity. Hernia and Exomphalos.—See the article "Hernia" in vol. iv. p. 201. Umbo.—A projection or rounded boss, e.g. the central part of the tympanic membrane to which the handle of the malleus is attached, drawing it inwards [umbo membrance ti/mpance). See Ear, Examination of (Tympanic Mem- brane). Unavoidable Haemorrhag-e.— Placenta prsevia. See Pregnancy, Haemorrhage (^Antepartum, Unavoidable). Unborn Infant. See Foetus and Ovum, Development of ; etc. Uncifornn.—Shaped like a hook (Lat. uncus, a hook), e.g. one of the carpal bones which has a hook-like process. Uncinaria Duodenalis. — The Ankylostorna duodenale or Dochmius duodenalis, a parasite belonging to the group of the Strongylidse. See Parasites {Nematodes, StrongylidoB). Uncinariasis. — Disease due to the nematode worms known as uncinaria; ankylo- stomiasis, miner's anaemia, or hook-worm dis- ease. See Parasites [Nematodes). Uncinate.—Having a hook (Lat. uncus, a hook), e.g. the uncinate convolution of the brain (the anterior end of the hippocampal gyrus). Unconscious Cerebration.— Mental and intellectual activity of the brain of which the subject is at the time unconscious, but whose results show themselves later, e.g. the recurrence to memory of a name which could not be recalled at first and to recall which all conscious attempt had ceased; mental latency. Unconsciousness. Introduction ...... 221 Physical Basis of Consciousness . . 222 Unconsciousness— Partial 225 Double Consciousness . . 225 Complete . . . . . . 227 See also Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessbls (Cerebral Hcemorrhage, Symptoms); Coma and Cross References; etc. The primary and obvious problem of psychology is the explanation of psychical phenomena. By "explanation" is meant the reduction of the phenomena of our inner world, which are given merely in time, to those actual events which lie at their foundations, and the establishment of the laws according to which the former follow from the latter. For Volkmann the funda- mental principles of psychology lie in the actual psychic events, and his genetic method of psychology traces and explains the develop- ment of mental life by a combination of empirical and speculative or metaphysical principles.