92 TRADES, DANGEROUS stitutional condition described as phosphorism has been observed in lucifer matchmakers, the principal symptoms of which are a peculiar pallor, attended by slight yellow tinging of the skin and by albuminuria. Patholoyg. — In acute phosphorus-poisoning death may supervene in from three to five days. The cadaver is usually jaundiced. In the skin and serous membranes, also in the muscles and between them, may be seen numerous petechial htemorrhages, the blood in which is dark. On opening the internal cavities a distinct odour of phosphorus may be detected. Lungs may present nothing abnormal. The pericardium is often the seat of numerous small htemorrhages, so too is the surface of the heart and the myo- cardium. The diaphragm, too, may be the seat of small haemorrhages. The liver is greenish in colour, enlarged in the early stages, and so fatty that the greasy material adheres to the knife when the organ is cut. The spleen is usually not enlarged. Kidneys are pale. On microscopical examination the myocardium and the muscles of the body generally are found to have undergone fatty degeneration, conse- quent upon imperfect oxidation of cellular protoplasm during life. The numerous ecchy- moses are the result of fatty degeneration of the walls of the small blood-vessels. The liver cells are observed to be extremely fatty, and the biliary canals are the seat of catarrh, due to the unhealthy bile having induced a subacute inflammatory condition of their lining mem- brane. It is to this circumstance that the jaundice is attributed. The kidneys, too, are the seat of well-marked fatty degeneration. By means of osmic acid the fat can be demonstrated in the form of black granules. It is largely owing to the destructive changes induced in the cells of the liver and kidney that there occurs retention of animal products within the body, which is the cause of the coma that is invariably fatal. On examining the stomach in very recent cases the mucous membrane is found to be red, and the seat of hjemorrhages. The brain and nervous system exhibit nothing very abnormal. In lucifer matchmakers phosphorus-poisoning takes the form of necrosis of the jaw-bone, more frequently of the lower than the upper. It has not yet been definitely settled as to how exposure to phosphorus causes death of the bone. Formerly it was considered to be the sole result of the action of phosphorus fume, i.e. a mixture of phosphorus and phosphoric oxide, operating through a decayed tooth upon the socket and setting up periostitis. It is generally admitted that work-people with de- cayed teeth are more susceptible than others. Professor Stockman of Glasgow found tubercle bacilli in the pus that escaped from a necrosing jaw of a matchmaker, and he therefore con- siders the process to be tubercular; but as there are many kinds of micro-organisms in the mouth, and also in decayed teeth, it is difficult to say whether the necrosis is entirely tuber- cular. Exposure of dogs and monkeys to the fumes of phosphorus, with, in addition, inocu- lation of the gum by a culture of tubercle bacilli, is not followed by necrosis of the jaw- bone. There is something peculiarly human underlying this question of phosphorus necrosis in lucifer matchmakers. Once the disease is established and the decayed tooth removed, the affected bone, if not treated surgically, may keep discharging pus for several months, when a sequestrum comes away, and the bone heals, leaving often very little deformity. Where the necrosis affects the upper jaw-bone there is a tendency for meningitis to be induced, which becomes purulent, and is rapidly fatal. In some of the patients tubercular lung disease is established, and in others there is albuminuria, which may be due to amyloid degeneration of the kidneys. At Grammont in Belgium, which is one of the principal seats of the manufacture of matches in that country, I had the opportunity of discussing the question of necrosis with Dr. Brocorens, who has had a large experience of the maladies of lucifer matchmakers. During twenty-five years he has met with thirty cases of spontaneous fracture of the long bones of the limbs in matchmakers who had previously suffered from necrosis of the jaw due to their occupation. This accident suggests that in addition to the local effects produced upon the maxillfe, phosphorus is capable of setting up pathological changes in other bones, whereby they break without any strain at all. Fracture of the femur in matchmakers in England is not unknown. Dr. Dearden of Manchester reported the case of two dippers, each of whom had at different times both thigh bones broken in the simplest manner possible. Diat/nosis.—Acute and subacute phosphorus- poisoning resembles acute yellow atrophy of the liver, but in the latter there is usually deeper coma, and the liver diminishes rapidly in size, whereas in phosphorus-poisoning the onset of jaundice is attended by enlargement of that organ. The spleen, if enlarged at all, is usually more so in acute yellow atrophy of the liver than in phosphorus-poisoning. Occa- sionally even at the autopsy it is difficult to differentiate between the two. Acute yellow atrophy is prone to develop during pregnancy, and it is when women are pregnant that they often, as we have seen, resort to phosphorus to cause miscarriage. Dr. Vivian Poore maintains that clinically acute yellow atrophy of the liver and phosphorus-poisoning are indistinguishable. Hypertrophic cirrhosis of the liver has been mistaken for phosphorus-poisoning, but the symptoms are usually not so acute. Urjemia with jaundice might under certain circum-