VENEREAL DISEASE 428 Soft Soees or Chancroids . . . 428 Pathology 428 Course ...... 428 Symptoms ..... 428 Position . . . . . .428 Differential Diagnosis . . . 428 Complications ..... 429 Buboes 429 Phimosis and Paraphimosis . . 430 Gangrene and Sloughing Phagedaena . 430 Serpiginous Ulceration . . . 430 Allied Diseases . . . . .431 Ve7iereal Warts . . . .431 Framboesia or Yaws. . . .431 Radesyge or Spedalsked . . .431 Sibbens . . . . . .431 Scherlievo . . . . .431 Falcadina . . . . .431 Morula or Button Scurvy . . .432 Ulcerating Granuloma of the Pudenda 432 Venereal Diseases in Animals— La Dourine" in Horses . . 432 Infective Granulomata in Dogs . . 432 See also Gonorrhceal Infection ; Syphilis ; Urethra, Diseases of ; Yaws ; etc. The term " Venereal Disease" is applied to certain affections due to the inoculation of different varieties of micro-organisms, which often occurs in those who are addicted to promis- cuous sexual intercourse. But venereal disease is in every way a bad expression. It has neither a pathological nor a clinical significance, for it groups together a number of wholly different conditions which are not even causally con- nected, since each of the component affections can only be produced by inoculation with the appropriate culture. The diseases included in the general heading venereal disease, are— gonorrhcsa, syphilis, soft sores, venereal warts, and certain affections such as yaws and radesyge, which a better knowledge of pathology has now relegated to their appropriate place. Gonor- rhoea (vol. iii. p. 479), the urethritis caused by gonorrhoea (vol. x. p. 253), and syphilis (vol. ix. p. 457), have already been described sufficiently, and the following article deals chiefly with soft sores and venereal warts. History.—Much useless but ingenious specu- lation has been devoted to the history of venereal disease, but the hyperbole of Oriental languages, the vague descriptions of classical satirists, and the reticence of the early physicians and surgeons, do not allow of any accurate statements. It appears, however, that syphilis is a new disease so far as the Old World is con- cerned, that gonorrhoea was less troublesome in classical times than it is now, and that soft sores and venereal warts have long been recognised as a consequence of impure intercourse between the sexes. Soft Sores or Chancroids are ulcers produced by the inoculation of a particular form of micro- organism known as Ducrey's bacillus. The organism is short and thick, with rounded ends, looking much like a figure of eight. It is found in the cells as well as in the intercellular spaces of the affected parts, and its presence has been demonstrated in some of the buboes which are so often associated with soft sores. The strepto-bacillus can be cultivated on a medium consisting of two parts agar and one part of blood from the human subject, the dog, or the rabbit, and it is stained by alcoholic solutions of fuchsin, methyl-violet, and gentian violet. A successful inoculation with this micro- organism alone will produce all the characters of chancroid, but the course of the chancroidal ulcer contracted in the usual manner is modified by the presence of other pyogenic and pathogenic organisms, of which the staphylococci and streptococci are the most important. Course.—Soft sores and the initial manifesta- tion of syphilis or the hard sore are often mis- taken for each other, owing to the fact that a person who contracts syphilis may also be in- fected with the poison of a soft sore. A chanc- roid, however, has only a shoi't incubation period, whilst the hard sore does not show itself for many days after inoculation. The first manifestation of a soft sore occurs within a few hours of inoculation, and is very rarely delayed more than a week. A vesicle appears at the seat of inoculation, and rapidly becomes pustular, forming a rounded ulcer which soon becomes inflamed, though its base never attains to the induration of the hard sore, which is the first manifestation of syphilis. The walls of the ulcer are undermined, its floor is irregular and covered with a yellow exudation. The ulcer secretes pus in abundance, and the pus is infective, for it is capable of inoculation upon the same individual as well as upon other people. Soft sores, therefore, are often multiple, whilst it is quite unusual for a syphilitic sore to be other than single {see vol. ix. p. 461). Differential Diagnosis.—Soft sores are found on the genital organs, as they are usually con- tracted during sexual intercourse. They occur in men on the glans penis and on the prepuce near the frjenum ; in women at the fourchette and on the inner surface of the labia, as well as near the anus. Soft sores have to be dis- tinguished from the initial manifestation of syphilis, from herpes, from balanitis, from gum- matous ulceration, and from tuberculous ulcera- tion. They can be distinguished from syphilis by their number, by their capability of inocula- tion, by the shorter incubation period, and by the smaller amount of induration. Yet these differences only hold good for typical cases, and may each and all fail in the very cases where it is of the greatest importance to distinguish between soft and hard sores, for the simple reason that a person who has contracted a chanc- roid may at the same time have become inocu-