291 URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN of diluted urine required to reduce the 10 c.c. of Fehling's solution used will contain 0*05 gramme of glucose. From this the amount present in a given quantity of the original urine is readily determined. Pavy's solution, which is a modification of Fehling's with the addition of ammonia, has the advantage that no precipitate is formed with it, the cuprous oxide being held in solution by the ammonia and the change of tint being readily observed. It has, however, the disadvantage that ammonia fumes are abundantly given off by the boiling liquid. This can be overcome, at the cost of some complication of the apparatus, by carrying out the reduction in a corked flask provided with an escape tube for the fumes. The rotation of the polarised ray may also be used for the estimation of sugar in urine by means of the saccharimeter, which will be found described in works on urinary analysis. It is advisable to decolorise the urine, as a pre- liminary step, by means of alumina paste and subsequent filtration, and the results obtained by this method are impaired by the presence of other reducing substances, such as glycuronates. In diabetes the presence of considerable quan- tities of the Isevorotatory yQ oxybutyric acid may greatly counteract the dextro-rotatory influence of the glucose and introduce important errors. For other volumetric methods, such as those of Knapp, in which a standard alkaline solution of mercuric cyanide is employed, the reader is referred to the text-books. Lactose or milk sugar is often met with in small quantities in the urine of nursing women, and more abundantly when suckling is abruptly discontinued, as is not infrequently the case on admission to a hospital. The re- cognition of the occurrence of lactosuria under such conditions is important for the avoidance of errors of diagnosis. When the conditions which lead to lactosuria are present it may be recognised with suflicient certainty by the facts that the urine reduces Fehling's solution, although not very readily, and yields a positive reaction with the bismuth test, that with phenyl-hydrazin a comparatively soluble osazone is formed, and that no marked fermentation is produced by yeast. Absolute certainty is only to be obtained by the isolation of lactose. Lactose, like glucose, is dextro-rotatory. Other sugars of the hexose class, such as Isevulose, laiose, and isomaltose, have been detected in urine, but are not of any special clinical interest, nor is it necessary to speak here of inosite, which has been found in the urine in cases of diabetes insipidus. Pentose (optically active or inactive arabinose), which was first detected by Salkowski in the urine of patients addicted to the morphia habit, may even occur in normal urine, a fact which von Jaksch is inclined to attribute to the presence of pentose in beer. It has also been found in the urine of diabetics. Urines contain- ing pentose reduce Fehling's solution and yield osazones with phenyl-hydrazin, but do not give the fermentation test. The most satisfactory test for pentose is the following (Bial's test):—3-5 c.c. of urine is heated with twice its volume of orcin-reagent, which consists of 500 c.c. concentrated hydro- chloric acid, 1 grm. orcin, 20-30 drops of a 10 per cent solution of ferric chloride. As soon as the liquid begins to boil a greenish-blue colour appears, which becomes intensified on standing. The pigment may be extracted with amyl- alcohol, and the amylic extract shows an absorption band between the C and D lines. Glycuronic acid yields a violet amylic extract, which, however, shows a similar absorption band. IX. Acetone, Aceto-Acetic Acid (Diacetic Acid), and /3 Oxybutyric Acid The three substances are closely allied in their origin in the body, and are all apt to be present in considerable quantities in the urine of patients suifering from the graver forms of diabetes mellitus. Clinically their abundant presence is found to be a frequent precursor of diabetic coma, and there is good reason to believe that the accumulation of ^ oxybutyric acid in the blood is the actual cause of diabetic coma. It is further probable that it is simply in virtue of the acid properties of this substance that this eff'ect is produced. It is a fact which has im- portant practical bearings that their production is favoured by the elimination of carbohydrates from the diet of the patients. CH3 I Acetone, CO the lowest member of the ketone CH3 series, has been shown by von Jaksch and others to be present in small amount (up to O'Ol grm. in the twenty-four hours) in normal urine. It has usually been held that it is a product of the breaking down of the proteids, both of the food and of the tissues, for it appears in the urine in markedly increased amount during fasting and when carbohydrates are withdrawn from the diet, only to reappear when they are again taken in sufficient quantities. Hirschfield main- tains, indeed, that except in grave cases of diabetes the increased excretion of acetone observed under normal conditions is dependent upon dietary causes. Von Jaksch, to whose labours we owe much of the knowledge which we possess of acetonuria, distinguishes the following varieties of pathological acetonuria :— A febrile acetonuria, that occurring in diabetes ; acetonuria in certain forms of carcinoma which had not yet produced cachexia; acetonuria due to inanition, and to autointoxication. The excretion of acetone in severe cases of