UTERUS, MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE 367 such cases it is not uncommon to find that segment of the ureter which traverses the meso- metrium converted into a solid column. The liability of the bladder and the ureters to be implicated in cancer of the cervix explains the frequency with which ursemic symptoms become manifest in the terminal phases of this disease. Cancer of the cervix tends to block the cervical canal, and in this way obstructs the free escape of the uterine secretion. The result is that the retained secretion becomes infected from the necrotic and decomposing tissue about the cervix, and becomes purulent and produces a condition known as pyometra. In some of the cases the cancerous tissue sloughs and allows the pent-up pus to escape, and irregular " gushes " of pus are not infrequent phenomena in the later stages of the dis- ease. A pyometra becomes a source of danger when the in- fection extends to, and involves the Fallopian tubes. These structures then become thin- walled pus-sacs. Should the in- fective fluid contained in a sac of this kind leak into the belly through an unoccluded ostium, or should a perforation occur in the wall of the tube, death may follow in a few hours from septic peritonitis. Almost at any period in the course of the disease the uterine artery may be broached, and the patient suffers from severe and sudden bleeding. This in a certain pro- portion of cases terminates life, and when it falls short of this it places life in great jeopardy. Probably on the whole the pa- tient's strength is more gradu- ally exhausted by oft-repeated small bleedings, and thus death slowly supervenes, than that life is suddenly extinguished by a furious haemorrhage of short duration. How- ever, the two earliest, and the most constant signs of cancer of the neck of the uterus are frequent fitful losses of blood, and purulent and off'ensive discharges from the vagina. It is for one or other, and more frequently for both, of these signs that the patients seek advice, and in a small proportion of cases they also complain of pain. It is the duty of every practitioner to examine carefully the uterus of women who complain of these troubles. In the early stages the margin of the uterine orifice may be found hard ai^ everted. Per- haps a soft mass protrudes from the canal and bleeds on the slightest touch. Occasionally a cauliflower-like mass will be found sprouting from the vaginal surface quite clear of margins of the "os." In some cases the conditions are such as to preclude a positive diagnosis, but bleeding, even on gentle manipulation, is always a suspicious sign, and especially when women complain that coitus is followed by slight bleeding. In cases of doubt an accurate diag- nosis is of so great importance for the welfare of the patient, that a fragment of the suspected tissue should be removed and submitted to microscopic examination. When the disease is well established its diag- nosis is never difficult. The ulcerating, fungat- ing, bleeding mass which protrudes from the cervical canal, or the crater-like depression Fig. 6.—Pelvis and its viscera in section. From a case of cancer of the uterine cervix which invaded the bladder. (From the writer's book on Tumours.) which replaces it, with the hard, infiltrating ring of tissue which can be traced into the vaginal walls, are features easily recognised by the trained finger. Cancer of the uterus terminates life in a variety of ways, which it will be useful to sum- marise :— 1. The uterine artery may be opened by ulceration, and fatal bleeding ensue. 2. Repeated bleeding from smaller arteries, and from the surface of the cancer, often leads to exhaustion and death. 3. Implication of the bladder, and of one or both ureters, causes cystitis, septic pyelitis, and uraemia. 4. Septic changes in the uterus extend to the Fallopian tubes, and septic matter may leak