TOXICOLOGY 54 Fatal Dose.—One drachm has proved fatal, and recovery has occurred after one ounce. Recovery after much larger amounts has been recorded, after six ounces for example, but in such cases a crude form of carbolic acid was taken, containing only about 14 per cent of phenol. Sometimes death occurs very rapidly ; in one case, in three minutes; the usual period is from three to four hours. Exceptionally a case may not end fatally for forty-eight or more hours. The external application of carbolic acid, and its injection into abscess cavities, have respectively caused death. Post-7no7-tem Appearances.—The odour of the poison will be perceptible in the moutli and also on opening the stomach. The mucous membrane acted on by the poison is either of a white or ash-grey colour in the mouth, and usually brown in the stomach and duodenum, where it is often corrugated and toughened, or it may be softened. Erosion is uncommon. Tests.—Bromine water gives a yellowish white precipitate of tri-bromophenol. A few drops of ammonia water and a small quantity of bleach- ing-powder are added to an aqueous solution of carbolic acid, and the mixture is gently warmed ; a blue colour is produced, which becomes red on acidulation. The well-known odour of carbolic acid constitutes a most delicate test. The Alkalies : Potash, Soda, Ammonia Symptoms.—When a strong solution of one of the alkalies is swallowed the iisual symptoms of corrosive poisoning occur, with the addition that purging is not infrequent. When ammonia is the poison its vapour tends to attack the larnyx and thus to lead to suffocation. Death from broncho-pneumonia has been caused by the inhalation of gaseous ammonia. Recovery may ensue in ammonia poisoning, even when death appears imminent. When recovery from the immediate effects of any of the alkalies takes place, stricture of the lower end of the oesophagus is a common sequence. Treatment.—Vegetable acids in the form of dilute vinegar or lemon juice should be given, with olive oil, demulcents, and opium. The stomach-tube must not be used. When ammonia is the poison a steam-tent, and possibly trache- otomy, will be needed. Fatal Dose.—Potash and Soda.—Death has followed forty grains. An average fatal dose would probably be three or four drachms. Death has occuri-ed within a few hours; more frequently it results, after weeks or months, from secondary effects. Ammonia.—Two drachms have proved fatal, and recovery has taken place after one ounce. Death has occurred in a few minutes, the usual period being twenty-four to forty-eight hours. Life may be prolonged for months and even years, death taking place from oesophageal stricture. Post-mortem Appearances. — Those of cor- rosives. The mucous membrane of the stomach is softened ; it may be bright red or dark brown ; it may also be eroded. Perforation is unusual. In ammonia poisoning the laryngeal mucous membrane is infiltrated and thickened, and is sometimes covered with an exudation, forming a kind of false membrane. The irritating eftects of gaseous ammonia may penetrate as far as the smaller bronchi, in which tubular casts have been found. The kidneys may be inflamed. Tests.—Yov potash and amm,onia. A solution of platinic chloride gives a yellowish-white crystalline precipitate. A saturated solution of tartaric acid gives a white crystalline precipi- tate. Soda may be identified by exclusion : if the suspected substance has a strong alkaline reaction, and does not respond to the above- named tests, nor to those which demonstrate the presence of an alkaline earth, it may be assumed that soda is present. Irritants Potassium Nitrate or saltpetre in large doses produces violent pain in the stomach and abdo- men, with vomiting and purging. Nerve-symp- toms, such as imconsciousness and convulsions, pain in the loins, cramps in the legs, muscular twitchings, abnormalities of sensation, paralysis, and aphonia, have been observed. Death is usually preceded by coma; it may occur suddenly from heart failure. Treatment.—Wash out the stomach with the tube, and give ice and opium, and, if necessary, stimulants. Warmth and the recumbent posture must be maintained. Fatal Dose.—The smallest recorded is two drachms. Recovery has followed one ounce. Death has occurred in from five to sixty hours. Potassium Chlorate acts both as an irritant and as a blood poison. It causes pain in the stomach and bowels with vomiting. The patient becomes delirious and somnolent; the blood is brownish in colour and viscid, due to destruction of the red corpuscles and the transformation of some of the liberated haemoglobin into metheemo- globin. The white corpuscles are increased in number. The skin may be jaundiced and the liver and spleen enlarged. The urine may con- tain albumin, haemoglobin, or hsematin. Treatment.—Wash out the stomach, and ad- minister diuretics and vapour baths, along with general symptomatic treatment. Fatal Dose.—Six and a half drachms have caused death. The fatal period ranges from six hours to as many days. Post-mortem Appearances.—The mucous mem- brane of the stomach may be softened and may exhibit ecchymoses. The blood is dark brown in colour, is inspissated, and yields the spectrum of methsemoglobin; in it are many free granules of colouring matter. The kidney tubules are filled with the debris of red blood