218 ULCERS AND ULCERATION of an aseptic healing sore a few Thiersch grafts should be applied to hasten cicatrisation. 2. Ulcers in a callous condition call for treat- ment in three directions : (1) The venous return must be facilitated by elevation of the limb, the removal of all constricting appliances, and the employment of massage. (2) The indura- tion of the surrounding parts must be got rid of before contraction of the sore is possible. For this purpose the free application of blisters, as first recommended by Syme, leaves little to be desired. Liquor epispasticus painted over the part, or a large fly-blister (emplastrum cantharides) applied all round the ulcer, speedily disperses tlie inflammatory products which cause the induration. Pressure applied by imbricated strips of adhesive plaster or by elastic bandages is more troublesome and less satisfactory than Syme's method. (3) The septic element in the ulcer must be eliminated. When the ulcer is very foul, relays of charcoal poultices (three parts of linseed meal to one of charcoal), main- tained for thirty-six or forty-eight hours, are useful as a preliminary step. The base of the ulcer and the thickened edges should then be freely scraped with a sharp spoon, and the resulting raw surface sponged over with un- diluted carbolic acid, after which an antiseptic dressing is applied and changed daily till healthy granulations appear. When these are slow to form, the sore may be stimulated by a dressing of boracic lint wrung out of red lotion and covered with a layer of gutta-percha tissue. A more radical and very successful method of treatment consists in excising the whole idcer and grafting the raw surface left. So soon as the ulcer assumes the characters of an aseptic healing sore, it should be covered with Thiersch skin-grafts, which form a much better cicatrix than is left when the ulcer is allowed to heal without s\ich aid. Ambulatory Treatment.— When the circum- stances of the patient forbid his lying up in bed the healing of the ulcer will be much delayed. He should be instructed to take every possible opportunity of placing the limb in an elevated position, and must constantly wear a firm bandage of elastic wehhing. This webbing is porous, and admits of evaporation of the skin and wound secretions, an advantage it has over Martin's rubber bandage. The bandage should extend from the toes to well above the knee, and should always be applied while the patient is in the recumbent position with the leg elevated, preferably before getting out of bed in the morning. Additional support is given to the veins if the bandage is applied after the method suggested by Heron Watson. Unna's Bandage.—A bandage stiffened with gelatine is useful, but somewhat inconvenient for the class of patients who usually suffer from this condition. 3. An inflamed condition of an ulcer is usually the result of a fresh infection by active bacteria, and of external forms of ii'ritation. Rest, eleva- tion, and the application of moist antiseptic and soothing dressings are the indications for treat- ment. Ichthyol ointment spread on lint and applied to the surrounding parts is very sooth- ing. Much relief is often given by making a free incision into the ulcer and the surrounding inflamed parts. A preliminary painting with undiluted carbolic acid will help to check the spread of the bacteria. The phagedcenic ulcer is simply an aggravated degree of the inflamed variety produced by some virulent organism or poison, and calls for more energetic treatment to arrest its spread, which is often rapid and destructive. The whole of the affected surface may be touched with the actual cautery at a white heat, and the seared surface sponged over with pure carbolic acid. A simple boracic dressing or iodoform gauze is then applied. 4. The irritaUe state of an ulcer may depend upon constitutional neurotic tendencies, uterine irregularities, or upon a gouty diathesis, and in treatment these factors must be counteracted. Locally the most satisfactory treatment is com- plete excision and subsequent skin-grafting. Failing this, the use of the sharp spoon, silver nitrate, or pure carbolic acid may be tried. Hilton found that small transverse incisions on the proximal side of the tender spots gave re- lief from the pain, probably by dividing the exposed nerve filaments. 5. A h(Bmorrhagic condition is more or less accidental, and must be treated according to whether the bleeding results from blood causes as in scurvy, or from excessive friability of granulations as in some cases of weak ulcers. Ulcera.tecl.—Affected with ulcers, e.g. an ulcerated sore throat. See Pharynx, Acute Pharyngitis {Septic). Ulcera.tion. See Ulcers; Bladder, In- juries AND Diseases of {Ulceration); Colotomy {Indications, Ulceration); Glanders {Pathology); Sclerodermia {Circumscribed, Morphosa, Clini- cal Features). Ulcera,tive>—Characterised by the presence of ulcers, e.g. ulcerative colitis {see Typhoid Fever, Diagnosis); ulcerative endo- carditis {see Heart, Myocardium and Endo- cardium, Malignant Endocarditis; Malaria, Diagnosis; and Typhoid Fever, Diagnosis) ; and ulcerative stomatitis {see Stomatitis, Ulcerative; Measles, Complications). Ulcus.—An ulcer; e.g. the ulcus erodens (lupus), ^dcus exedens (rodent ulcer), ulcus grave (Madura Foot), ulcus molle (chancroid), and ulc%is venereum durum (chancre). Ule.—A cicatrix or scar (Gr. ovKrj, a scar).