URETHRA, DISEASES OF 259 It consists in putting the patient to bed, intro- ducing a catheter into the bladder, and tying it in for twenty-four hours, when it is replaced by another two or even three sizes larger than the first. It is often more comfortable for the patient if the catheter first tied into the bladder be a size smaller than the stricture admits readily. The catheter must be removed if the patient has a rigor and if, without a shivering fit, he becomes feverish. The end of the catheter should only lie just within the bladder, and for this reason the ordinary red or black rubber catheters are better than the olivary catheter whose eye is necessarily at some distance away from the end. The urethra should be gently irrigated with a 1 :10,000 solution of biniodide of mercury, at a tempera- ture of 100° F., every time the catheter is changed. The treatment usually lasts a fort- night, and the patient is confined to his bed. The after-treatment is the same as after the continuous method. Continuous dilatation is used when the interrupted method has failed, when the patient has only a limited time at his disposal, as in the case of an officer on leave or a mate at home between two voyages, when the stricture is complicated with a cystitis which renders it advisable to drain the bladder, and as a preliminary to internal urethrotomy. The operative treatment of stricture is con- ducted on the same lines as that of dilatation. The urethra is restored to its natural size by division of the constriction, and it is afterwards maintained at this size by the passage of instru- ments. The mere division of a stricture with- out adequate after-treatment is useless. Two methods of operative treatment are in use at the present time: division of the stricture from within the urethra or internal urethro- tomy, and division by cutting through the penile or perineal structures from without— external urethrotomy. Both methods have their strong advocates, but neither can be employed to the exclusion of the other. In- ternal urethrotomy requires that the stricture shall admit some instrument as a guide to the urethrotome, whilst external urethrotomy com- pels the patient to remain in bed for a consider- able length of time. Internal Urethrotomy.—The cases suitable for internal urethrotomy are those in which the stricture is situated close to the urethra, narrow and well-localised strictures, e.g. annular and bridle strictures, strictures in which dilatation has been tried and failed, either because they are resilient (p. 258), or because they are too fibrous or gristly. It is undesirable to operate in this manner upon patients who have an infective urethritis. Internal urethrotomy is performed according to Civiale's method, in which a concealed knife is passed through the stricture, and the con- striction is divided from behind forwards, or it is done by Maisonneuve's method, in which the incision is made from before backwards by a blade running in a metal guide, the knife being passed along a groove in the guide which is first introduced through the stricture. When Civiale's method is adopted the stricture is continuously dilated until a No. 5 English catheter can be passed. This catheter is left in until the time of the operation when it is withdrawn, and the urethra is carefully cleansed by irrigation with a solution of bin- iodide of mercury (1 : 5000) at a temperature of 100° F. The sterilised urethrotome is passed along the urethra initil the surgeon is satisfied that it has entered the bladder. The instru- ment is withdrawn until the bulb touches the posterior edge of the stricture, the cutting edge of the knife being directed towards the floor of the urethra. The blade is then projected to the required distance, and is drawn smartly through the stricture until it is fully divided, when the knife is retracted into its sheath before the urethrotome is withdrawn. If the strictures are multiple they are all divided at the same sitting. A steel director is afterwards passed along the urethra to determine whether the strictures have been satisfactorily divided, but not to dilate, for if it does not pass easily, the urethrotome must be reintroduced. The bladder is then washed out with a saturated solution of boric acid, at a temperature of 110° F., and the patient is directed to retain his urine if possible for a period of eight hours. If Maisonneuve's method is adopted it is usual to employ Tevan's modification. A fili- form guide-bougie with a screw top is first passed through the stricture, and the thin grooved staff of the urethrotome is screwed on to it and passed on through the stricture. The staff is held steadily, and the bistom-i cache is passed along the groove until its hood is arrested by the stricture. The constriction is then divided by a series of short cuts with the knife, the blade being allowed to recoil between each cut vmtil the sti-icture is divided. The subsequent steps are the same as in the previous operation. In either case it will be sufficient to begin dilatation with a catheter on the tenth day after the operation. External Urethrotomy.—The methods chiefly employed are those of Syme and Wlieelhouse, and of these I prefer Wheelhouse. External urethrotomy is required when the stricture is practically impassable, when the stricture is narrow and the bladder requires draining in consequence of long-standing cystitis having filled it with foul urine and deposits of phos- phates and mucus. The method is also serviceable when the stricture is complicated with false passages and urinary fistulse. In Wheelhouse's operation the patient is pre- pared in the usual manner, his skin at the seat of operation being made as sterile as possible.