133 TUBERCULOSIS ureters, and kidneys, in this case affecting the kidneys simultaneously or nearly so. As a result of the destructive ulceration bacilli appear in the urine. They are usually shorter and thicker than the common varieties, and tend to lie in clumps. They usually stain uniformly. Epididymis and Testis.—The disease in the majority of instances begins in the epididy- mis, and it usually becomes extensively caseous and softened before the testis is attacked, the tubercles in the latter radiating inwards from the mediastinum testis. In most cases inflam- mation of the tunica vaginalis coexists. Rarely calcareous masses are met with in the epididy- mis which appear to represent old healed tuber- culous foci. Uterus and Appendages.—Tuberculous endo- metritis is rare. It follows advanced tubercu- losis elsewhere. In this condition the lining membrane is pale, thickened, and succulent, showing microscopically the usual evidences of the nature of the disease. Tuberculous salpingitis is less rare, and tubercles may spread through the wall to the serous surface. Tuberculosis of the ovary in some cases affords the only evident origin of a tuberculous peri- tonitis. Tuberculous Peritonitis. — Acute miliary tuberculosis of the peritoneum may be localised to the bases of tuberculous ulcers of the in- testine, or may be generalised throughout the whole peritoneum. Generalisation seldom takes place by perfora- tion of an ulcer, but usually from softened caseous lymphatic glands, more especially those of the mesentery. Occasionally it follows disease of the vertebrse, and in some cases it extends from the vasa deferentia, vesiculfe seminales, or ovary, in these cases being visually localised. Sometimes chronic fibi'oid tubercles occur over the whole or part of the surface as glistening, flattened patches, which may be one-tenth of an inch or more in diameter. These may be the only visible manifestation of tuberculosis in the body, as in one case at least examined by the writer in which the tuberculosis was alimentary in origin, and the condition is possibly anal- ogous to the "Perlsucht" or "duckweed" type found in cattle. The more acute form may result in an acute peritonitis with fibrinous exudation. Thei-e is considerable, sometimes great swelling of the abdomen. The inflammation may even become suppurative in character. More often, however, by the time the case comes to be examined post- mortem, the acute stage has passed off and evi- dence of chronic inflammation is found in the form of thickening of the peritoneum and general- ised adhesions with matting of all the contents of the abdomen. In these adhesions numerous caseous glands and areas are to be seen, and sometimes tuber- culous abscesses in connection with ulcerations of the intestine. The omentum is greatly thickened and shortened, forming a thick mass which can be felt from the surface of the abdomen. In it numerous tuberculous masses are to be seen. Tuberculosis op Bones and Joints Bone.—Tuberculosis is the most common dis- ease of bone, attacking by preference the young. In a large proportion of cases the joints are affected concurrently. The disease may be pri- mary in the bone or in the synovial membrane, probably more frequently in the former. Tuberculosis appears to be especially prone to attack young growing bone, an injury fre- quently predisposing. This has been proved experimentally. Schliller found that after in- jecting living tubercle bacilli into the blood he could induce tuberculosis of bone by inflicting injuries which would otherwise have been re- covered from. The disease begins under the periosteum ; in the medulla near the epiphysial cartilage; in the epiphysis, or spreads to the epiphysis from the synovial membrane. The bacilli reach the parts nearly always by way of blood-vessels, seldom through the nutrient artery, more commonly through the articular arteries, whence it happens that the epiphyses are more fre- quently affected than the shaft. Additional evidence of this is shown by the frequent con- currence of synovial and osseous tuberculosis of joints, the same blood-vessels supplying both these parts. The disease attacks spongy bone in preference to compact bone ; thus the vertebral bodies, or the bones of the tarsus or carpus, and the arti- cular ends of long bones, are more often affected than the shafts of long bones. In the case of the vertebree, tuberculosis frequently affects simultaneously the adjacent surfaces of two bodies. In the phalanges it may affect the whole shaft (Strumous Dactylitis). In tuberculosis of bone the microscopic ap- pearances resemble those met with in the dis- ease elsewhere. Primarily the soft medulla is affected, cellular grey tubercles forming in con- nection with the arterioles. These extend in the usual manner, and the central part caseates. The bony trabeculse become absorbed, so that the spaces of the bone become larger. Alexis Thomson, from his own and Kdnig's observations, distinguishes three varieties of tuberculosis of bone. 1. Localised Chronic Tuberculosis.—Here the lesions are comparatively small. They possess a translucent, reddish-grey periphery, fairly well defined to the naked eye, with a greyish or more frequently yellowish caseous centre. If extension is relatively rapid the caseous material contains gritty particles—the remains of thinned, incompletely absorbed, trabeculse;