178 TYPHOID FEVER does affect other animals than man, and it is said that typhoid fever has been contracted through eating the flesh of animals suff"ering from typhoid fever. Sewage Emanations.—It is probable that the gaseous emanations from cesspools or drains infected with the typhoid virus may, if inhaled, produce the disease; for though sewer gases rarely contain typhoid forms, which probably perish in the presence of the other organisms of sewer contents, there is no impossibility that under special circumstances the typhoid poison may be contained in drain effluvia, and give rise to the disease. Contagion.—There is undoubted evidence that under favourable conditions the disease may be transmitted from one person to another. Sir William Jenner attributed typhoid occasionally to the inhaling of the patient's breath by students closely watching the rise of the mercury in the clinical thermometer in the patient's mouth in the days before the instrument was provided with an index ; but it certainly does not in this country spread far through the medium of the air ; possibly in countries where dust clouds are common and where typhoid is epidemic it may be so conducted to a distance. The stools and urine containing the infecting organism may transmit it; attendants on typhoid patients and those employed in washing the soiled linen occasionally contract the disease, especially if insufficient care is taken in washing the hands, and inefficiently disinfecting excreta and nursing utensils, and bedding contaminated by excreta. The disease is said to be conveyed by flies and other insects. Proofs of this are wanting. The poison enters the body in nearly all cases by the alimentary canal, for even if inhaled it may pass from the pharynx into the digestive tract. In many cases it is quite impossible to trace the source of infection. Age.—It has been observed in infants even as young as 4^ months, but it is not common before the third year ; it is apt to be mild in children, and probably it occurs in children more often than is generally stated. In the Maidstone epidemic 22 per cent of the subjects were children. The period of greatest suscep- tibility is from 15 to 25 years; half the cases occurring in these ten years; after this it gradually decreases in frequency, and is un- common after the age of 50, but has been observed even at the age of 90 years. Sex.—There is little or no difference in the susceptibility of the sexes. Family and Individual Tendency.—There is a marked idiosyncrasy to contract typhoid fever in some families, or to suffer severely from it; on the other hand there is said to be individual immunity. Though an individual may possess immunity at any moment, there is no proof that such immunity is perpetual; and in typhoid, as in the other exanthemata, an individual may go unscathed for years while exposed to conditions most favourable for contracting it, and contract it at a later period when such risks appear much less. The condition of bodily health here as in other diseases is a factor in immunity. Condition of Health.—Perfect apparent health is consistent with the contr-action of typhoid fever, but in my own observation it has occurred with a frequency after injuries and accidents too great to ascribe to mere coincidence. Season of the Year.—It occurs chiefly in the autumn, and has been called autumnal fever ; this is noticeable in America as well as in England; the period of greatest mortality is in October or November, the minimum mor- tality is usually in April. In autumns succeed- ing a very hot summer it appears particularly common. The varying prevalence at different seasons has been attributed to the sinking of the level of the ground water from the surface of the soil. Immunity.—As already said, some individuals appear to possess an immunity against typhoid fever, though such immunity may not be a perpetual one. There is a general belief that the disease protects against a second attack; this belief is founded (first) on the existence of records of outbreaks affecting almost every one in the house or locality, who has not already had the disease, and sparing those who had been attacked in a visitation years before in the same locality ; [secondly) on the fact that few patients coming under observation with typhoid fever admit having had a previous attack; {thirdly) on experimental proofs that typhoid protects against subsequent attacks founded on the in- vestigations of Widal, Kitasato, and others; guinea-pigs which had been infected by cultures of typhoid bacilli were more or less immune to the action of a stronger virus, and the blood serum of animals thus rendered immune con- ferred immunity on other animals. Relapses, however, are very frequent in typhoid fever, which to some extent argues against acquired immunity. Many persons probably who get typhoid while children cannot remember this when adults, and as a matter of fact persons are known to have two or even three or more attacks of typhoid fever. In the Hamburg epidemic of 2000 typhoid patients, 14 had had previous attacks, a proportion which, though cited as a proof of immunity, is by no means inconsiderable compared with the incidence of typhoid in the population generally. In the South African campaign numerous individuals suffered from more than one attack of typhoid fever, and there is no reliable evidence that typhoid fever confers marked immunity against subsequent attacks. Morbid Anatomy.—The specific lesions of