UTERUS, DISPLACEMENTS OF THE 331 as to present when viewed from above a funnel- shaped opening, in the floor of which is seen the fundus, and at its sides and upper part, rather anteriorly, the ovaries and broad liga- ments lie. The utero-sacral ligaments are much stretched, elongated, and thinned. The broad ligaments are also put on the stretch, and their attachments to the side wall of the pelvis are seen to be pulled on. The round ligaments are straightened out, but not stretched, unless the broad ligaments have given way. The rectum remains in position, but the lower portion of it, which is attached to the perineal body, may be pvilled forwards and a pouch formed. This constitutes " rectocele." Fig. 3.—Anterior colporrhaphy (Stoltz). This process of descent is a gradual one, and it is convenient to divide it into thi'ee stages :— (1) The earliest stage, when the anterior vaginal wall with posterior wall of the bladder attached to it appears through the pudendal opening, constituting what is termed cystocele. The uterus in this instance has descended slightly, but is still ante verted. (2) In descent of the second degree, the external os uteri is at the vulva and the uterus is retroverted. Cystocele and perhaps rectocele are also present. (3) In descent of the third degree, bladder, both vaginal walls, uterus, and peritoneum are outside the vulva (Fig. 2). Symptoms.—The patient complains of some- thing coming down in front, or of the womb coming down. When she lies down and the examiner inspects the vulva he may find the parts apparently in a normal condition, inas- much as no protrusion is to be seen, the ex- planation being that when the patient assumes the recumbent posture intra-abdominal pressure is removed, and the parts which were prolapsed when the patient was erect have sunk back into the pelvis. In such a case one has only to ask the recumbent patient to bear down, thus bringing intra-abdominal pressure into action, and the anterior vaginal wall will be seen to descend through the vulvar orifice in the shape of an egg. The patient also complains of a sense of weight and dragging in the back. When the uterus is enlarged and endometritis is present the menstrual flow may be profuse, but more often it is scanty. As a rule there is acquired sterility, but conception may take place in a prolapsed uterus and the pregnancy go to term. Abortion is apt to occur from in- carceration when the enlarged uterus does not ascend above the pelvic brim. There are diffi- culties with micturition. In complete descent the direction of the long axis of the urethra is changed from downwards and forwards to up- wards and forwards; a considerable portion of the bladder forms a pouch below the level of the urethra, consequently when the patient walks this pouch is subjected to pressure and the urine is forced out in jets per urethram. From the changed relations of bladder and urethra there is also difficulty in voiding urine, and some patients affirm that before they can ac- complish the act they must push the protrusion back into the pelvis. Differential diagnosis must be made from the following conditions:— Hypertrophic elongation of the Vaginal portion of the Cervix.—In this condition the cervix is increased in length but not in thickness, the external os uteri, which is usually small, lies immediately within the vaginal orifice, while both anterior and posterior fornices are in their normal position, and the body of the uterus occupies its normal height in the pelvis. It is found in the virgin, and is probably congenital. Hypertrophy of the Supra-vaginal portion of the Cervix.—The fundus uteri remains in its normal position, there is great increase in the length of the cervix, so that the external os comes to lie outside the vulva. Both anterior and posterior fornices are obliterated. Inversion of the Uterus.—In this displace- ment a globular swelling occupies the vagina, at the upper end of which the uterus can be felt encircled by the cervix. On abdomino-rectal examination the body of the uterus is found to be absent from its normal position, and in its place the margin of a cup-shaped hollow may be palpated. A uterine polypus which has become pedicu- lated cannot be mistaken for prolapsus uteri if a careful examination be made. The finger introduced into the vagina can trace the pedicle