THROMBOKINASE 3 Thrombokinase. Thrombin. Thrombosis. See Alcoholism {Com- plications, Thrombosis) ; Appendix Vermiformis {Results of Infection of Appendix); Brain, Af- fections OF Blood-Vessels {Thrombosis in Cere- bral Veins and Sinuses); Brain, Surgery op {Infective Thrombosis of Venous Sinuses); Chlorosis {Symptoms, Thrombosis of Veins of Leg); Gangrene {Indirect Traumatic, Causes); Gastro - Intestinal Disorders op Infancy {Chronic Diarrhoea, Complications); Gout {Cir- culatory System); Hemiplegia {Condition at Outset); Leucocyth/emia {Symptoms); Lungs, Vascular Disorders of {Thrombosis of Pul- monary Arteries); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation op {Pathology, Intra - Cranial Complications); Orbit, Diseases of {Thrombosis of Cavernous Sinus); Ovaries, Diseases op {Complications following Ovariotomy); Preg- nancy, Affections and Complications of {Cardio-Vascular Disturbances, Varicose Veins); Puerperium, Pathology {Puerperal Venous Thrombosis); Rheumatism Acute {Symptoms, Phlebitis and Venous Thrombosis); Spinal Cord, Medical {Thrombosis of Spinal Vessels); Sy- philis (Visceral, Cerebral Thrombosis); Typhoid Fever {Complications, Thrombosis); Uncon- sciousness {Causes); Veins, Diseases of {Throm- bosis and Phlebitis). Thrombus.—A blood clot formed in the heart or in a vessel on account of disease of the blood or of the vessel walls, or, simply, to slow- ing of the circulation. See Thrombosis and Cross References. Thrush.—Parasitic stomatitis. iSeeStom- atitis {Parasitic); Gastro-Intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Diseases of the (Esophagus). Thuja,.—A non-official plant {Arbor vit<x) belonging to the Coniferaj, containing a volatile oil and a bitter principle called thujine (C2qH220^2) j it acts as an astringent and anti- periodic ; externally, it has been applied to warts, and internally it is used in malaria, dropsy, rheumatism, scurvy, and gonorrhoea; the dose is J to 1 fl. dr. of either the tincture or the fluid extract. Thumb. See Amputations {Upper Ex- tremity, Hand). Thus Americanum. See Frankin- cense. Thyme, Oil of.—A volatile oil obtained from Thymus vulgaris (thyme); it is official in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia ; dose, 3 minims. Thymectomy.—Excision of the thymus gland {q.v.). Thymic.—Relating to the thymus gland, e.g. thymic asthma. See Asthma {Explanation of Term); Status Lymphaticus ; Thymus Gland {Thymus Death). Thymol.—A crystalline substance derived from the oil of thyme and other volatile oils. It is almost insoluble in water, but freely in oils, alcohol, ether, and chloroform. An oily liquid results when it is rubbed with menthol, cam- phor, chloral hydrate, or phenol. Dose—^-2 grs. as a pill. It is powerfully antiseptic and comparatively non-irritating, but it is too ex- pensive for general use for surgical purposes. It has been used as a mouth-wash or gargle in stomatitis, sore throat, etc. Internally it has been tried as an intestinal antiseptic, but without any striking result. As an anthelmintic, how- ever, especially for ankylostomiasis, it is of great value. For this purpose it should be adminis- tered in large doses (10-30 grs.), followed by a purgative. The simultaneous administration of any solvent of thymol {e.g. alcohol) should be avoided. Large doses of thymol may render the urine green in colour. It has been em- ployed in the treatment of various skin diseases, including psoriasis, eczema, scabies, and ring- worm. A weak solution has been recommended as a spray for bvirns. " Glycothymoline " is a popular proprietary preparation for catarrhal conditions of the nose, throat, vagina, etc. Thymol Iodide, known as Aristol, was intro- dviced as a substitute for iodoform. It is very useful for a variety of purposes and gives ex- cellent results, but it is somewhat costly. Thymus Gland. Anatomy and Physiology ... 3 Diseases of Thymus— 1. Tubercidosis .... 4 2. Syphilis ..... 4 3. Inflammation .... 4 4. Tumours, etc. .... 4 5. Haemorrhages .... 4 6. Persistent Thymus ... 4 See also Status Lymphaticus ; Acromegaly {Symptoms, Respiratory System); Adrenal Glands, Addison's Disease {Morbid Anatomy, State of Thymus); Children, Development of {Glandular Organs); Lymphatic System, Physi- ology and Pathology {Status Lymphaticus or Lymphatism, Thymus-Tod); Mediastinum {Tu- mours of Thymus); Post-mortem Methods {Thorax); ^iGKWts{Treatment); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre, Pathological Anatomy); Tumours, Inoperable, Treatment of {Organotherapy). The thymus gland is a structure of very variable dimensions in diff"erent subjects ; its size appears to depend to some extent on the general nutri- tion, being greater in well-nourished infants than in those who are emaciated. It attains its maximum development at the end of the second year, after which it slowly diminishes in