262 URETHRA, DISEASES OF sound will often drive it into the bladder whence it should be removed by crushing or suprapubic lithotomy. Prolonged and violent attempts should never be made to extract calculi, as much damage may be done to the urethral mucous membrane. If the calculus cannot easily be withdrawn through the meatus or pushed into the bladder it should be removed by external urethrotomy (p. 259), the incision in the skin and urethra being afterwards sutured in the hope of obtaining union by first intention. It is better, I think, not to tie a catheter into the urethra after the operation unless it is clear that the mucous membrane has been much injured, either by the irregularity of the stone or by the attempts which have been made to remove it. Foreign Bodies.—Foreign bodies are more often found in the male than in the female urethra because the shortness of the urethra in women allows them to pass readily into the bladder. In both sexes foreign bodies are often passed into the urethra, and show a remarkable tendency to escape from the hold of the patient and to travel rapidly backwards towards the bladder. They usually cause much pain with the muco-purulent discharge characteristic of urethritis, and their presence is easily recognised by the passage of a sound. No general rule can be laid down for their extraction, and the in- genuity of the surgeon may be taxed to the uttermost to remove them with as little injury as possible to the urethra. Urethra.1.—Belonging to the urethra ; e.g. a uretliral 'polypus (pedunculated tumour grow- ing from or protruding from the urethra, such as a caruncle), MreiA?-a^/eve?' (high temperature following the introduction of a catheter, etc.). See Catheters, Uses and Dangers (Urinary Fever); Cautery (Uses, Urethral Caruncle); Gonorrhceal Infection (Complications); Tabes Dorsalis (Symptomatology, Urethral Crises). Uret h ra,lg^ia..—Pain in the urethra, especially of a neuralgic nature. Urethrameter or Urethro- meter. —■ An instrument for gauging the diameter of the urethra. See Aseptic Treat- ment OF Wounds (Disinfection of Instruments). Urethritis.—Inflammation of the urethra. See Urethra, Diseases of. Urethro-.—in compound words urethro- (Gr. ovprjOpa, the urethra) means relating to the urethra, e.g. urethro-bulhar (relating to the urethra and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum), urethrocele (protrusion of the urethral mucous membrane), urethro-cystitis (inflammation affect- ing both the urethra and the bladder), urethror- rhap)hy (closure of a urethral fistula with sutures), urethrostenosis (narrowing of the urethral canal), urethrostomy (making an artificial meatus urin- arius in the perineum), and urethro-vaginal (be- longing to the urethra and the vagina). Urethrotomy.—The operation for the division of a urethral stricture; it may be ex- ternal or internal, and in the latter case an instrument called a urethrotome is used. See Urethra, Diseases of (Stricture, Operative Treatmentj). Urg-ency Certificate. *S'ee Insanity, General Treatment of (Scotland, Emergency Certificate); Lunacy {Laws). Urg'inea.—Indian squill, the bulbs of Urginea indica and Scilla indica, used for the same diseases as squill; it is ofBcial in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the B.P. of 1898; there are six preparations: (1) The Acetum Urginece (dose, 10-30 m.); (2) the Oxymel Urginece (dose, | to 1 fl. dr.); (3) Pilula Ipecacuanhcecum Urginea (dose, 4 to 8 gr.); (4) Pilula Urgineoe Composita (dose, 4 to 8 gr.); (5) Syrupus Urginece (dose, J to 1 fl. dr.); and (6) Tinctura Urginea, (dose, 5 to 15 m.). Uriag'e. See Mineral Waters (Sulphated Muriated). Uric Acid. Introduction ...... 262 Physical and Chemical Characters . 263 Methods for Estimation . . . 264 FoRAiATioN and Excretion OF . . 264 Origin of, in the Organism . . . 265 ^ee also Bladder, Injuries and Diseases op (Calculus); Children, Clinical Examination of (Urine); Gastro-Intestinal Disorders op Infancy (Colic, Causes) ; Gout ; Headache (Causes, Toxcemia); Leucocyth^mia (Syinptoms); Liver, Physiology of (Regulation of Supply of Proteids); Migraine (Causes); Nephritis (Clini- cal Features, Uric Acid in Blood); Physiology, Blood and Lymph (Plasma, Chemistry of); Physiology, Excretion (Non-Urea Nitrogen in Urine); Pigments of the Body and Excreta (Animal Pigment, Uric Acid in Butterflies); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of (Remote Symptoms, Urinary) ; Urine, Pathological Changes in (Uric Acid). Among the products of nitrogenous katabolism uric acid occupies a very important place, not only because of the appreciable quantity in which it is usually excreted, but also on account of the marked variations in its excretion under pathological conditions. Variations in the ex- cretion of urea, the most important nitrogenous bye-product, do not so readily attract the attention of the clinician as an increase or de- crease in the excretion of such an insoluble body as uric acid. The great tendency that it has to separate out from the urine on cooling is noticed even by the individual who has had no medical