318 URTICARIA usual gastric sedatives, antiseptics, carminatives, and acid and alkaline tonics, such as bismuth, salol, bicarbonate of soda, dilute nitro-hydro- chloric acid, strychnine, and pepsin, should be used where specially indicated. In cases where the kidneys are acting sluggishly diuretics may prove to be of the greatest value, such as acetate of potash, citrate of potash, and the various alkaline mineral waters such as Vichy, Ems, and Bilin. Where urticaria complicates chronic rheuma- tism or gout, salicylate of soda or colchicum will generally give relief, and where it occurs in association with biliary colic or jaundice, the cholagogues, such as podophyllin, rhubarb, and calomel may be resorted to. Neurotic patients seem to be specially prone to urticaria, and in some cases it is the patient rather than the disease which requires treat- ment. Nerve tonics, such as strychnine and quinine, may be valuable, but, as a rule, more benefit is obtained from nerve sedatives. The latter diminish the irritation and itching, and, what is of most importance in many such cases, ensure a night's rest; of these bromide of potassium, phenacetin, and antipyrine have all been recommended. Atropine, either in the form of the tincture of belladonna in pill, or in small hypodermic injections (yiij- grain) at night is frequently serviceable, and in the worst cases a hypodermic of morphia may be given. Ichthyol has also been extensively used. It may be prescribed in capsules, 5 rn. three times a day, or with equal parts of glycerine. Where these measures prove of no avail, the patient is often benefited by a change of air and scenery, rest from some irksome occupation, and the daily regime and amusements of some suitable health resort. In infantile urticaria the diet must be regu- lated with the utmost care. It is generally advisable to begin the treatment by administer- ing a saline mixture, and if there be any signs of chronic intestinal catarrh these must be treated on general principles. Intestinal anti- septics, such as salol or small doses of dilute lactic acid, are recommended, and where diar- rhoea exists " grey powder " may be prescribed. In children the possibility of the presence of worms should never be lost sight of, and if detected the usual anthelmintics should be ordered. The subjective symptoms are fre- quently so distressing in infants and children that sleep is interfered with, and the child tosses about, becomes feverish, and by rubbing and scratching aggravates the condition of the skin. In such cases a few grains of chloral at night insures sleep, is easily tolerated, and greatly benefits the patient. External Treatment.—In all cases of urticaria local treatment is demanded to alleviate the distressing subjective symptoms. In urticaria directly produced it is all that is necessary, but in reflex or indirect urticaria local treatment alone is incapable of curing the affection. The treatment may be in the form of sponging with various antipruritic lotions, or of sedative baths. The most serviceable lotions are those containing carbolic acid, dilute hydrocyanic acid, subacetate of lead, salicylic acid, tar, turpentine, or camphor, and evaporating lotions of chloroform or rectified spirit. In mild cases the time-honoured calamine lotion, with the addition of 1 per cent of carbolic acid, gives great relief (Calaminte preparatse rn,xxx., acidi borici mx., zinci oxidi rtixv., glycerini nixx., aquam ad. sj.); or the following lead lotion may be substituted, Liq. plumbi subacetatis rrt^v., glycerini mxx., aquam ad gj. Sponging with eau de Cologne or " toilet vinegar " is soothing. In severe cases 2 per cent solutions of carbolic acid in camphor water, or, still better, a 3 per cent solution of the liq. carbonis detergens in water often gives relief. As a rule ointments and oily substances gener- ally rather aggravate the condition than improve it, but in some chronic cases ointments contain- ing 10 grains of menthol or camphor, or a drachm of chloral to the ounce of soft white paraffin, are beneficial. In many cases baths seem to relieve the symptoms better than any other form of local treatment. Tepid baths generally give the best results. Alkaline baths containing six ounces of potassium or sodium bicarbonate to thirty gallons of water are particularly soothing. But acid baths with half an ounce of nitric acid, or containing six ounces of borax, or 2 lbs. of starch, bran, oatmeal, or gelatin may be sub- stituted. A thin solution of starch about the thickness of syrup, with the addition of a small quantity of glycerine of borax, has been strongly recommended. After coming out of the bath the skin should be gently but thoroughly dried and dusted with a non-irritating dusting powder such as fuller's earth or starch. It is necessary to have a large number of local remedies to choose from, because different cases react so differently to local treatment. Where these remedies all fail galvanism may be tried, and it has been known to prove of benefit. The negative pole is applied at the lower end of the spine and the positive pole at the upper. Besides these local measures the skin should be protected by light warm clothes, irritating underclothing must be dispensed with, and the bed-clothes should be light and the rooms kept cool. Scratching and rubbing should be avoided, but it is useless to tell the patient so unless it can be made possible for him to resist. This is almost impossible in the case of children, but the effects may be rendered less harmful by the wearing of woollen gloves, or by binding on small cardboard splints on the flexor aspects of the arms to keep them fully extended, and in this way to prevent the child from reaching