URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 301 which are minute, may be deposited upon grease streaks on the sides of the containing vessels, or may form a snow-white cloud upon the surface of a collection of mucus at the bottom of the urine glass. The crystals, which are highly refractive, are as a rule colourless, none of the ordinary urinary pigments being included by them, but when deposited from icteric urines they acquire a feeble yellow or green tint. The crystals assume several different shapes. The most usual and characteristic of these is an octohedron with a short principal axis, which under the microscope has the appearance of a square envelope, whence they are usually spoken of as envelope crystals. Twin octohedra and other more complex interpenetrating forms are also met with. Less commonly short, square prisms with pyramidal ends are seen, and in some specimens crystals of this type preponderate. The so-called dumb-bell crystals are more or less flattened oval plates with deep grooves upon their oval surfaces which render them biconcave. Such crystals sometimes exhibit faint striation, and when seen edge on present the appearance of dumb-bells. They are usually mixed with the ordinary octohedral forms, and in some specimens they are exceedingly abundant. Cystin.—Sediments of cystin are extremely rarely encountered in acid or faintly alkaline urines, but when present they usually form abundant greyish - white deposits. Cystinuric patients often suffer from cystitis. The crystals of which the sediments are composed are colour- less hexagonal plates, the sides of which are often of unequal length. Superposed hexagons are also met with. They can hardly be mistaken for any other urinary crystals, with the excep- tion of the pale hexagons of uric acid already referred to. The crystals are insoluble in water, alcohol, and ether, but readily dissolve in ammonia, from which they are redeposited as the ammonia evaporates. The following beautiful test serves for the recognition of cystin. Some of the sediment is dried and placed upon a glass slide, some strong hydrochloric acid is allowed to run under the cover-glass, and, as this comes in con- tact with the deposit, rapidly growing prismatic crystals grouped in rosettes replace the original hexagonal plates, and these crystals, which con- sist of a compound of cystin with hydrochloric acid, melt away as rapidly as they were formed when the acid is diluted by running in some water. Xanthin.—A crystalline sediment of xanthin was met with in one single instance in the urine of a child who had previously suffered from symptoms of renal colic. The sediments con- sisted of small whetstone-shaped crystals which dissolved readily when the urine was heated. The sediment was soluble in water and in hydro- chloric acid, and from solution in the latter was deposited in six-sided tables and prisms. It also dissolved in nitric acid without efferves- cence, and on evaporating the acid a yellow stain was left. It is possible that such crystals have sometimes been mistaken for colourless or faintly tinted crystals of uric acid. Phosphatic Sediments.—When any urine is rendered alkaline with a fixed alkali, the earthy phosphates and the normal or mono-hydrogen phosphates of calcium and magnesium are pre- cipitated, and a turbidity due to the same sub- stances is observed in urine which is alkaline when passed. The sediments from such urines are colourless and amorphous, and their nature is easily recognised by the ease with which they dissolve on the addition of acetic acid. In the urines which are the seat of putrefac- tive changes, and owe their alkaline reaction to ammonia, there are found, in addition to amorphous phosphates, abundant crystals of ammonio - magnesium phosphate (triple - phos- phate), MgNH^PO^. 6H2O. These crystals, which are amongst the largest met with in urinary sediments, are rhombic prisms, of the so-called coffin-lid form. Similar crystals are also de- posited from amphoteric urines apart from any amorphous sediment. Acid calcium phosphate, CaHP04.2H20, is also thrown down in crystalline form from some amphoteric or faintly acid urines. These crystals, which are usually spoken of as "stellar phosphates," are grouped into stars or rosettes, or appear as isolated crystals, or again in groups of two or three. The individual crystals are long narrow prisms. Normal magnesium phosphate, M.g^{VO^^. 22H.,0, has occasionally been found as a crystal- line sediment in the urine of patients with gastric dilatation to whom magnesium carbon- ate has been freely administered, in the form of oblong, rhombic, highly refractive tables, and Bradshaw has under similar circumstances met with an abundant deposit of long needles which he identified as consisting of acid magnesium phosphate, MgHPO^. 14H2O. Like amorphous phosphatic sediments, the above crystalline deposits may be readily dis- tinguished from other crystals deposited from urine by the readiness with which they dissolve in acetic acid. Calcium sulphate has been hitherto found as a crystalline sediment in only three cases: in two instances in urines strongly acid in reaction, in a third in association with triple phosphate and calcium carbonate. Such deposits are in- soluble in acids and in ammonia alike. The crystals have the forms of long needles, or of long tables with sloping ends. Calcium carbonate is seldom deposited from human urine, either in amorphous or crystalline form. It may be met with in association with amorphous phosphates. Occasionally it appears as dumb-bell crystals, which may be mistaken