139 TUBERCULOSIS Prudden showed that excavation following experimental infection became much more active if pyogenic organisms gained entrance to the tuberculous tissues. A. G. Foulerton and Prof. W. Ophiils read papers on this subject at the British Congress of Tuberculosis (1901), and from these the following abstract is made. Foulerton's paper dealt specially with mixed infections in pulmonary tuberculosis. " While there can be no question as to the cardinal part which bacillus tuberculosis plays as the primary, or original, factor in the condi- tion known as chronic pulmonary phthisis, the influence of the specific parasite in the produc- tion of the symptoms characteristic of this condition, and its importance as an ultimate factor in the excessive mortality caused by the disease, are not by any means so well established." Frequently, indeed almost invariably, the terms chronic pulmonary tuberculosis and chronic pulmonary phthisis are used in clinical medicine as if synonymous ; whereas, pathologically, the two conditions diff"er widely, although agreeing in the fact that bacillus tuberculosis is present in the lesions of each. In uncomplicated chronic pulmonary tuberculosis the single organism present, the specific bacillus, is one which, under the given conditions, does not manifest more than a quite low degree of virulence in the majority of cases, whether as regards its direct action on the tissues actually infected, or as regards its action on the system as a whole by the production of toxine. In chronic pulmonary phthisis, on the other hand, to the action of this parasite is added the more acute influence of pyogenic organisms, whose potentiality for evil—again under the given conditions—is incomparably greater, whether by direct action on the tissues infected or by the production of toxines. Chronic pulmonary tuberculosis is rarely recognised by the physician in his practice, because of the absence of any definite symptoms produced by it in the majority of instances, such cases as are diagnosed being usually those in which a certain amount of cough has attracted attention to the chest, and the sputum has, in consequence, been examined. On the other hand, such a condition of uncomplicated pulmonary tuberculosis, as being the initial stage of chronic pulmonary phthisis, must, we know, be an extremely common one, and the frequency of its occurrence is emphasised when we consider, not only the number of cases in which secondary infections have determined the onset of definite pulmonary phthisis, but also the large number of cases of pulmonary tuberculosis which, there is reason to believe, never arrive at that stage, and are not recognised at any time during life. The frequency of these latter cases can only be estimated from the number of instances in which lesions, usually of limited extent, indicative of cured or arrested tuberculous infection, are found in the lungs of adults dying from other causes. Our knowledge of the bacteria met with in tuberculous cavities has been arrived at by the examination of the sputum during life, and of the walls and contents of the cavities after death. Practically all who have worked at the subject are agreed that various species of cocci are the predominating organisms found, especi- ally Streptococcus pyogenes, Staphylococcus pyo- genes aureus, Staphylococcus pyogenes albus, Diplococcus pneumoniae, and Micrococcus tetra- genus. The first of these is the most important. Their local effects are manifest in an active destruction of the tissues actually infected, by the occurrence of perinodular pneumonia, and by what may be described in general terms as a lowering of the powers of resistance—a lower- ing of the vitality of the tissues in the neighbour- hood of those actually infected; the latter effect being partly due to the direct action of toxines produced by the bacteria, and partly to vascular disturbance in the proximity of the lesions. Their action on the system at large may be expressed either by the results following on the absorption of the toxines (toxaemia), or those of an actual infection of the blood generally by the bacteria themselves. The latter may be ex- cluded as an important factor save only as a terminal infection. It is of some interest to note that the bacteria which are under normal conditions arrested in the fore part of the nasal passages are amongst those which are most frequently found infecting pulmonary cavities, e.g., diplococcus pneumoniae, staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, streptococcus pyo- genes, and bacillus pneumonice (Friedlander). We have good reason for believing that the tubercle bacillus by itself would not, at all events in a chronic infection, produce all the pathological features of fully developed chronic pulmonary phthisis during life, but we must allow that infection of a cavity by, for example, streptococcus pyogenes, will afford a satisfactory explanation of phenomena such as evidences of active destruction, and of hectic fever with its accompanying evening temperature, morbid sweating, and general wasting. The tubercle bacillus in pure infection never produces active destruction of tissues; it, of course, produces granulomata which tend slowly to break down as a result of interference with their blood supply, but their very presence is evidence of a low grade of virulence in the organism which produces them. A quite similar result may be produced by a purely mechanical irritation. As to toxaemia, all one can say is that in all forms of chronic pure tuberculosis in parts other than the lungs, the symptoms referable to a toxaemia are either of the slightest or con-