WRIST-JOINT DISEASES 557 little fluid, and rice-bodies are wanting. As a matter of fact these forms may be found com- bined. The tendon itself is eventually invaded ; as one dissects the thickened sheath off in the operation for the condition, the tendon is some- times found to be so slender as to require care not to rupture it; while in some cases the glistening white fibres will be followed up till at last they are lost in the tubercidar mass, there is an actual gap in the continuity of the tendon. After the condition has been appa- rently cured by excision of the sheath, it may recur in adjacent sheaths, and eventually invade the joint itself. I excised the sheaths and a huge swelling the size of an orange from the common extensor tendons of the wrist in a young man who made no complaint except of the swelling; two years later it recurred in the extensors of the thumb, and was again success- fully removed; after another interval of two years the disease attacked the wrist joint, but was eventually successfidly combated by the congestive bandage and iodoform injections. Diagnosis.—The " compound ganglion "—a term which should be entirely abandoned for " tubercular teno-synovitis "—ought usually to be easily distinguished from the simple ganglion. The following are the points of distinction :— The ganglion usually appears as one single round tumour, without accessory compartments as in the tubercular disease; should the gan- glion be "compound" in shape, however (which is seldom the case), its tenseness and firmness, especially when the wrist is extended, serve to distinguish it from the much softer fluctuation or else more boggy feeling of the other ; and, lastly, if required, the diagnosis may be abso- lutely confirmed by a puncture which evacuates in the case of a ganglion the characteristic fluid resembling soft glycerine jelly, while unmistak- able synovial fluid or even minute rice-bodies will escape from the tubercular swelling. Treatment.—It may be that the congestive bandage and iodoform injections will prove as efficacious in the form of tuberculosis as they prove in joint tuberculosis, but as yet no treat- ment has been followed by results that can compare with excision of the affected sheaths. The operation is always an extensive and pro- longed one. An incision should be made longi- tudinally over the swelling and considerably beyond it at each end, or else a flap with its convexity to one side should be raised so as fully to expose the diseased area. After separ- ating the tumour from the healthy tissues by blunt dissection, the operator splits the sheath longitudinally for the entire length of the disease, and then with fine scissors or the knife dissects it away and cuts it off" from the healthy tissue at each end. If a gap be found in a tendon the two ruptured ends may sometimes be sutured in the ordinary way by the splitting method. The wound is then closed, with or without a small drain, as is thought advisable. The splint, which is required for the first ten days, should at the end of that period be discarded; passive movements are begun, and the patient is encouraged to move his fingers. Perfectly free movement is to be looked for. Pyogenic Tbno-Synovitis.—By far the com- monest cause of this condition in the tendon of the wrist is " whitlow," septic infection of a wound of a finger, though it may follow a wound of a tendon sheath. The violent in- flammation which ensues is very apt to produce necrosis of the tendon, or, if the disease stop short of that, firm adhesions may form which render the corresponding fingers useless. The disease as it occurs in the fingers has already been described {see " Hand"). The symjJtoms here are of the same character; the palmar tendons are, of course, much more frequently affected. Treatment.—As soon as the presence of pus in the sheaths is suspected they should be laid freely open. The sites for incision should correspond to the tender areas, and the highest point invaded by pus at or above the wrist can be determined with precision by noting the highest spot of acute tenderness on pressure. The wound should be washed out with sublimate lotion and drained by tubes. Whenever the wounds begin to heal, voluntary and passive movements of wrist and fingers should be commenced at once, and be so assidu- ously persevered with that all stiffness, which can possibly be avoided, may be prevented. Acute Teno-Synovitis {non-pyogenic).—This disease may be considered as occurring in three forms: (a) Dry crepitating teno-synovitis; {b) Dry plastic teno-synovitis; and (c) Acute serous teno-synovitis (Watson Cheyne). (a) Dry crepitating tenosynovitis is apt to occur as an acute disease after prolonged and excessive use of the hand and fingers, in the work of washerwomen, pianists, and others; in these it occurs mostly on the extensor aspect. The symptoms are subacute pain on pressure and on movement, slight stiffness, and occasion- ally slight swelling ; in addition, when the tendons move a characteristic sensation of friction is produced (as "when two pieces of silk are rubbed one over the other") palpable both by the patient and surgeon. Spontaneous cure is the rule, but relapse is common. Treat- ment.—The hand should be placed on a Lister splint for a week, and if this does not suffice, a blister will be found in this affection specially useful; as it heals, the moderate compression produced by a firm bandage over wool will aid the cure. (6) Dry Plastic Teno-Synovitis.—This is the much more serious variety which results in adhesions, following Colles' fracture, suppur- ative teno-synovitis, and similar conditions, though it may arise in rare cases without a trauma, when, of course, it is called gouty or