VENEREAL DISEASE 430 The abortive treatment of buboes by the injection of iodoform emulsion or carbolic acid at a comparatively early period has not proved satisfactory in my hands as a general rule, and in the successful cases I have thought that the result was rather due to the rest in bed than to the antiseptic injected. Phimosis and Paraphimosis. —Phimosis is one of the commonest complications of soft sores in men who are careless, or who have been treated too actively. It is due to an inflammatory swelling of the prepuce with an accumulation of pus beneath it. The inflammatory process runs a rapid course, and may end in such per- foration of the prepuce as to cause exposure of the glans or even ulceration of the urethra. Paraphimosis is a rarer complication of soft sores, and is due either to the swelling of a short foreskin or to the forcible retraction of an un- duly long one. The swelling of the glans penis is greatly increased, and great oedema occurs owing to the inflammation of the soft sores. Treatment. — A patient with commencing phimosis must, if possible, be kept in bed with his penis enveloped in a compress of lead lotion and slung against his abdomen. He should further be ordered a calomel purge, and he should be placed upon a course of quinine. If the inflammation continues in spite of this treat- ment the prepuce must be slit up, for in no other way can the inflammation be arrested so satisfactorily. The parts should be rendered as aseptic as possible, and the patient is placed under the influence of nitrous oxide gas or of somnoform, though many prefer the use of cocaine or eucaine. A director is introduced through the orifice of the prepuce, taking care that it does not pass into the urethra, and is carried onwards to the corona. A curved bis- toury is passed along the groove, and is made to transfix the prepuce at the level of the corona, and the incision is carried through the whole thickness of the prepuce to its free edge. The cut is generally made along the dorsum, but Dr. Robert A. Taylor has lately expressed his belief that better results are obtained by employing two lateral incisions. The prep\ice is then converted into an upper and a lower flap, and the glans is much more freely exposed than by the old method. The bleeding is not serious in either case, and is readily arrested by the application of a dry dressing of tannoform or iodoform gauze kept in place by a couple of turns of rubber plaster. Paraphimosis is more amenable to treatment than phimosis. Rest in bed with the applica- tion of a compress of lead lotion will usually allay the inflammation sufficiently in a few hours to allow the prepuce to be replaced over the glans, and it is only in the rarest cases that it is necessary to divide the constriction. Re- duction is effected in the usual manner by first squeezing as much blood as possible out of the glans either by digital or elastic pressure, and then pulling the foreskin over it. Gangrene and sloughing phagedcena affect the penis, the groin, or the skin over the pubes by an infection which extends rapidly in persons who have a diminished power of resistance either from acquired or constitutional causes. The tuberculous and diabetic are said to be more likely to suffer from phagedfena if they contract soft sores than are healthy persons. It is certain that habitual drunkards are more liable to this form of inflammation; but phage- dfena is much less commonly seen since the introduction of antiseptic treatment, and since the administration of mercury has been re- stricted to those who have syphilis. Treatment.—The treatment consists in placing the patient under an anaesthetic, scraping away all the diseased tissue with a sharp spoon, brushing the wound with nitric acid, paying special attention to the edges, which must be thoroughly destroyed, and afterwards packing the whole surface with dry iodoform gauze which has been sterilised. The patient ought to be well fed, he should be given a liberal allowance of alcohol, and a grain or two of opium in the course of every twenty-four hours will often prove to be of the greatest benefit. The most severe cases of sloughing phagedsena can sometimes be cured by almost continual immersion in a warm bath. Fortunately, such cases only occur in hospitals, for it is only in a public institution that this course of treatment can be carried out satisfactorily. The patient can easily be kept in the bath continuously for days or weeks, and if a horse- shoe air cushion be tied round his neck he can Bleep securely without danger of being immersed. The water must be changed and the bath thoroughly cleaned once every twenty- four hours. The patient should be wrapped in blankets and laid on a bed whilst this is being done, and it is convenient that he should have an action of the bowels at this time. It is quite possible, however, to employ a bed-pan in the bath with very little soiling of the water. The bath may be so arranged as to allow of a con- stant flow of water through it, or, if it be medicated (vol. i. p. 349), some of the water may be drawn off" and fresh water may be added every hour and a half. The temperature of the water is maintained at 99° to 100° F. The base of a soft sore is sometimes covered with a greenish or yellow membrane, and the ulcer is then called diphtheritic. Such ulcers run a somewhat chronic course, though they can be easily stimulated into activity and heal readily. Considerable tracts of skin occasionally be- come involved in chronic ulceration as a result of infection with chancroidal virus. The edges of the advancing ulceration are curvilinear— whence the name serpiginous—whilst the seat