65 TOXICOLOGY those who have died from carbon-monoxide poisoning usually shows a broad band of reduced haemoglobin, with the two narrow bands of carboxyhtemoglobin superimposed. Chronic poisoning by carbon monoxide occurs among those who work for long hours in badly ventilated rooms heated by slow combustion stoves, or gas stoves, which give off carbon monoxide, but in too small amount to produce acute poisoning. Fiirnacemen, stokers, and the workmen in gasworks where water-gas is made are also liable to chronic poisoning. In private houses, the use of coke in open fireplaces, leaky, slow combustion stoves, and ill-ventilated gas- cooking stoves are sources of danger. A most insidious risk to health, now unfortunately very widespread, arises from the introduction of water-gas into private houses as a means of illumination; the percentage of carbon mon- oxide is so high that the slightest leakage in the household gas-fittings may give rise to chronic poisoning. Symptoms.—The early symptoms are easily mistaken for simple ansemia and malnutrition. They comprise headache, neuralgic pains, loss of appetite, insomnia, anaemia, loss of flesh and breathlessness, and palpitation of the heart on exertion. Subsequently, peripheral neuritis and psychical disturbances may occur. The treat- ment consists in removing the patient from the source of mischief, and in dealing with the anaemia and other symptoms by appropriate medicines and change of air. Cyanogen Compounds Hydrocyanic, or prussic acid, is one of the most deadly poisons known. Oil of bitter almonds contains a varying amount of hydro- cyanic acid which, in the crude oil, reaches to from 5 to 15 per cent. Potassium cyanide is a common and dangerous cyanogen salt. Symptoms.—When a fatal dose of hydro- cyanic acid is swallowed, the symptoms usually appear within a few seconds; they may be delayed for half a minute, and have been known to be delayed for over a minute. After a few gasps the patient falls to the ground in an unconscious condition; the surface is cold, the face pallid, the eyes are staring with insensitive pupils, the breathing is gasping, and quickly ceases with a few convulsive efforts. Tetanic spasms often occur in the early stage, followed by complete muscular relaxation. The pulse is extremely rapid ; it can rarely be felt at the wrist. The lips may be covered with froth; vomiting and involuntary micturition and defsecation are not uncommon. Death usually occurs within from five to ten minutes; it has been known to be delayed for over an hour. When life is prolonged for half an hour there is good chance of recovery. Treatment. — Immediate evacuation of the stomach with stomach-pump or an emetic is VOL. X indicated, but, on account of the extremely rapid action of the poison, it can rarely be put in practice. Artificial respiration, faradisation of the phrenics and the diaphragm, subcutaneous injections of ether, brandy by the rectum, and, if the surface is not cold, efl'usion with cold water, alternated with vigorous friction and the application of hot cloths or bottles. For all practical purposes antidotes are useless. Fatal Dose.—Half a drachm of the B. P. acid caused death in one hour and twenty minutes. One grain of the anhydrous acid constitutes an ordinary fatal dose; the ultimate result is not influenced by dilution, though the action may be slightly delayed. Recovery has taken place after half an ounce of the medicinal acid, equal to 4'8 grains of the anhydrous acid. Post-mortem Appearances.—The eyes, glassy- looking, with dilated pupils, are usually prominent; the fingers and the jaws are clenched and the lips are covered with froth; the post-mortem stains may be light red in colour. On opening the body, the odour of the poison may be perceived; the blood is almost always fluid and is sometimes light-coloured, in which case the various mucous membranes and other tissues may also be light-coloured. Potassium cyanide acts like hydrocyanic acid with the addition of erosion and softening of the mucous surfaces, with which the poison came in contact, due to the action of the potash. The inner surface of the stomach may be deeply injected and softened, or eroded. Five grains of the salt has caused death, and recovery has followed forty grains. Oil of bitter almonds in a teaspoonful dose has caused death. Tests.—Place a small drop of a solution of silver nitrate on the concave surface of a watch- glass and invert it over a substance suspected to contain free hydrocyanic acid; in a short time, if the acid be present, the transparent drop becomes milky white from the formation of minute crystals of silver cyanide, which are soluble in hot, concentrated nitric acid. This test may be applied over the mouth of a dead body recently poisoned by hydrocyanic acid, or over the stomach after it has been opened. If a drop of a solution of potassium hydrate be substituted for the silver solution and, after exposure over the acid, a drop of a solution of ferrous sulphate is added and then a drop of hydrochloric acid, a precipitate of Prussian blue is obtained. If potassium cyanide was the poison, sufficient tartaric acid to produce an acid reaction must be added to any suspected fluid, before it is tested as above, in order to set free the hydrocyanic acid. Organic Poisons Alcohol.—Acute poisoning by alcohol varies from what is easily recognised as alcoholic intoxication to a profoundly comatose condition 5