WRIST-JOINT INJURIES 543 PATHiES ( Wrist) ; Tendon-Jerks (Wrist-Jerk); Toxicology {Lead - Poisoning, Wrist - drop); Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning, Wrist- drop) ; Wrist-Joint, Diseases of. Contusions of the wrist joint and its neighbour- hood are not uncommon, but most frequently fractures of the bones, either of the forearm or the carpus, result from them, and monopolise the attention of the surgeon. In discussing certain of these fractures presently I shall consider contusion in some detail. Generally speaking, the covering of the bones is so closely adherent to them, and of so little thickness, that in simple injuries the contusions of the soft parts attract but little attention; in compound injuries the question of their vitality is of all importance in the determination of the treatment to be adopted in each particular case, whether it should be expectant, amputation, or excision. In rare cases of contusion by soft and heavy bodies the bursal sac which invests the flexor tendons beneath the anterior annular ligament, and extends far above and below the limits of the ligament, suffers injury, and develops a traumatic bursitis, usually of moderate inten- sity, which yields in a short time to treatment by rest and cold lotions. In former times, before the confidence in the safety of antiseptic surgery was developed, it used to be the daily practice to treat the tumour known as ganglion by a blow from the back of an octavo book with firm, smooth leather binding, and so to burst the cystic tumour and extravasate the fluid contents in the tissues around the tendon sheaths. This treatment, rough and ready, was in the majority of cases successful. I have, however, seen instances where, either from excessive force of the blow, or because the constitutional condition of the patient was unsuited to resist the effects of such injury, inflammatory troubles have followed, and have led even to the loss of the limb. A clean needle or tenotome in these days effects a more gentle and a safer division of the walls of these cysts. The statistics of the medical and surgical history of the War of the Rebellion (1861-1865), American, are the most reliable that we can examine as a guide to the treatment of gunshot injuries of the wrist. In this war " the large majority of cases was treated by expectant conservative measures, with a comparatively low rate of mortality," 716 cases out of a total of 1496, or very nearly one-half, treated on expectant lines yielded a mortality of 7*9 per cent. "To moderate inflammation by cold applica- tions, by ice-dressings when available, to support the parts without constricting, bandaging upon a padded splint, to relieve inflammatory tension by free incisions as soon as suppuration took place, to remove all splinters and detached fragments, and finally, to institute passive movements of the fingers and hand at the earliest practicable moment, were the practical indications that were chiefly insisted on in the expectant conservative treatment of shot- fractures of the wrist." On the other hand, excision of the wrist recorded in 109 cases gave a mortality rate of 13'7 per cent; and again, amputations at the wrist for shot-injury gave as a result a death-rate of 10'6 per cent. In these days, with an antiseptic treatment efficiently carried out, and probably still of greater importance, with wounds inflicted by the bullets of modern warfare, conservative expectant treatment must be attended with even more favourable results, and the operations of excision and of amputation should show a proportionate decrease of mortality. Dislocation of the wrist from injury is uni- versally admitted to be extremely rare, but to be an injury which has real existence. Writing in 1814 at the close of his short and original description of fracture of the lower end of the radius, Colles says : " During the last three years I have not met with a single instance of Desault's dislocation of the inferior end of the radius, while I have had opportunities of seeing a vast number of the fracture of the lower end of this bone." We find in the lectures of Dupuytren, pub- lished some twenty years after the writing of Colles, which we have quoted, the following as the mature opinion of the great French surgeon:— " Without denying absolutely the possibility of the dislocation backwards of the radio-carpal joint, although I have never met with it, one must admit, at least, that it is excessively rare, and that perhaps it never exists in consequence of a fall on the anterior part of the wrist." When we read the writings of Desault, Boyer, and even Dupuytren, the difficulty that first meets us is the meaning that they attach to the term dislocation of the wrist. Is it dislocation of both radius and ulna from the carpus, or is it dislocation of the radius only or of the ulna only 1 While each of the varieties here enumerated has been proved to exist, the actual number of possible dislocations must be increased by the varieties backwards and forwards, and possibly more. One must always bear in mind that dislocations uncomplicated by any fracture of the bones of the forearm or of the carpus are the rarest of all. One of the very first to question the correct- ness of the assertion of Dupuytren, which would induce us to banish true dislocation of the wrist from the list of surgical casualties, was Voil- lemier. He says: " But still there is nothing else but the immense authority of this man, a species of fanaticism with which one accepts