463 VICE a fool of a man; to be enamoured is to neglect all but one aim; and to make a study of sexual practices of necessity debauches the mind. And this, be it observed, is especially true of illicit and perverted sexual vice, for then the mind is weakened and predisposed to calamity by the reaction of the conscience, focussed in a fear of discovery and disgrace. In this connection it is well to dissociate our- selves from the purely spiritual aspect of the subject, and to have special regard to the physi- ology of emotion; for we have, in the psy- chology of sexual indulgence, a vivid example of the importance of cortical arrangements and their relations with visceral ganglia in determin- ing diseased processes. The sexual mechanism, as has been observed, must be very widespread in its connections; from the organs of genera- tion tracts, obviously capable of intense activity, reach inwards to the sensorium, and are pre- sumably adapted both for the reflex activities which occasion trophic changes in various organs and vague systemic effects and also, probably by special fibres, for the direct stimulation of the cortical mechanisms, whose activities coin- cide with appropriate emotion. For this sexual function we must remember the unlimited avenues of stimvilation from without as well as from within, from vision, hearing, smell, and touch; and, on the other side, tlie expressive or outward relations which are the chai'acter- istic effects and acts of this function, such as those which permit of interference with respira- tion and circulation, with vaso-motor functions, and even with gastric and renal activities, and the other more voluntary relations which become translated into ideas and purposes and acts. We are justified in assuming that, at least in some people, this mechanism is the most power- ful —fit for the most intense activity and having the most widespread relations; while in others it would appear to be insignificant. And we cannot ignore the corresponding differences in the dynamic value of two such natures. For it is absurd to deny the importance of such a function in stimulating the whole organism, or its importance at other times in depleting it; and again, if it is at variance with what we call the conscience, the disturbance and instability which such a conflict occasions. Apathy. — The first vice which we have to consider in relation to this group of functions is the feeling and practice, often due to consti- tutional defect, which finds expression in the view that virginity is of itself a good thing. It is almost unnecessary to say that women are more commonly defaulters in this respect than men. It may be hazarded that in every such case, when the apathy is genuine, there is a structural reason for it, most commonly perhaps in the cortex—a kind of sexual imbecility. In men it is commonly associated with cowardice and selfishness — a foolish bashfulness or an undue subservience to a false idea of modesty, and, very often, an exacting fear lest to share another's emotions should curtail the oppor- tunities of other forms of self-indulgence. But this vice of sexual neglect is commoner in women—so common indeed as to be alarm- ing, for its prevalence bodes ill for the race, and it is moreover an important factor in many cases of conjugal infelicity. One even hears of women long married who do not seem to have ever experienced any great sexual awakening, though perhaps fi-om a sense of duty they permit intercourse with the husband. In some instances it would appear that this function has never been reached, because it has been fenced off by constitutional barriers which prohibit any state of mind approaching to abandon, and which predispose to a constant watchfulness or determine an exaggerated idea of dignity. Such cases are probably hopeless unless the hidden potencies can be exploited by some in- genious and subtle suggestion which associates love-making with mystic ideas under circum- stances likely to induce ecstatic feeling. Per- haps the majority of cases of feminine apathy, however, are occasioned by the aggressiveness of the husband, which creates in the wife a revulsion against a practice which would make her merely the instrument of an appetite which seems both senseless and beastly. In many instances, unless this adverse relationship is of long standing, a felicitous result follows when the husband learns to regard his wife's feelings before his own. In any case, apathy is not a state which the physician should ignore ; for we must recognise how profound and beneficial an alterative effect sexual awakening induces, how married life promotes healthy metabolism if pregnancies are not too frequent, and how it enlarges and revives the mind. That effect, it is interesting to surmise, may depend in women partly upon the dynamic value of opening up the sexual tracts in the nervous system, and partly upon the quickening effect of germinal infusion upon the general metabolism. Sexual Excess.—Sexual excess is probably not commoner than sexual neglect, though a perverted public opinion metes out to it a more ready condemnation. Its evil effects upon the organism are both obvious and manifold. We must specially bear in mind the claims which an excessive sexual indulgence makes upon the attention, how hard it is for the sexualist to do good work, and how likely he is to miss many of the most desirable intellectual and emotional interests; and also the probability that his health will be impaired and his disposition de- moralised. Here again we have to note two types : one of them unashamed, and even care- less of detection, and who consequently suffers less; the other, under the reaction of feai", apt to become furtive and morose. Perhaps no form of vice illustrates better the