URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 293 ally associated with a diminution of the simple sulphates, and accordingly marked fluctuations are observed in the ratio between them, which under normal conditions is roughly 1 : 10, but which in consequence of excessive intestinal decomposition may be greatly reduced. The actual amounts of simple and ethereal sulphates excreted affords an even more valuable criterion, but it must be remembered that even in health both the relative and actual quantities are subject to somewhat wide variation. As might be expected, the quantity of the aromatic sulphates is markedly diminished by a diet poor in proteids, and also after the ad- ministration of certain drugs which act as intestinal antiseptics, and diminish the activity of the intestinal bacteria. In estimating the quantities of simple and ethereal sulphates respectively, advantage is taken of the fact that the latter are not pre- cipitated by barium chloride, but that after they have been split up by boiling with hydro- chloric acid their sulphuric acid is so precipi- tated. It is best to take two measured speci- mens from the urine of twenty-four hours and to heat one with hydrochloric acid, and after- wards to precipitate the sulphuric acid from both specimens by means of barium. In order to prevent the precipitation of phosphate the untreated urine should be acidified with acetic acid before the addition of the barium salt. The precipitate is collected, washed, dried, and combusted, and in this way an estimate is obtained of the total sulphuric acid in one specimen, and of the simple sulphuric acid in the other. By subtraction of the latter from the former the amount of sulphuric acid in com- bination with aromatic substances is obtained. Conjugated Glycuronates. — Aromatic sub- stances, as well as others, such as chloral and morphine, are also excreted as conjugated glycuronates. Glycuronic acid is closely related to glucose, from which it is formed by the oxidation of its alcoholic group, the aldehyde group remaining intact. The acid itself is dextrorotatory, but its conjugated derivatives rotate the polarised ray to the left, and reduce Fehling's solution with varying degrees of intensity. The appearance of more than traces of glycuronic acid in urine is usually associated with the administration of substances which form with it conjugated glycuronates, but some indoxyl is also excreted in such a form. It is by many regarded as an intermediate product of carbohydrate metabolism. Its presence may be suspected in urines which reduce Fehling's solution, are Isevorotatory, and do not ferment, and it may be detected by means of Bial's orcin test (for pentose), provided that the mixture of reagent and urine is boiled for a short time. Indicanuria.—The parent substance of the indoxyl compounds in urine is indol, which is a product of the bacterial putrefaction of albuminous substances. Thus indol is formed in the human intestine in small quantities even in health, and the quantity is larger on a diet rich in proteids. The indol absorbed from the intestine is oxidised to indoxyl in the tissues, and is excreted in the urine for the most part in conjugation with sulphuric acid as indoxyl- sulphate of potassium, and also in part as indoxyl-glycuronic acid. The so-called " in- dican" of urine is an indoxyl-sulphate, and must be distinguished from the true indican, which is a glucoside met with in indigo-yielding plants. Urines rich in indican often have a dark brown colour which is not due to the indoxyl- sulphate, which is colourless, but, according to Baumann and Brieger, to higher oxidation pro- ducts of indol. This cause of a dark brown colour must be borne in mind when one is called upon to investigate urine possessing such a tint, and is not so familiar as it should be. The detection of indican by several methods is easy. Thus a specimen of urine may be boiled with an equal quantity of hydrochloric acid and a few drops of a solution of bleaching powder (Jaffe's test), when indigo-blue and its isomer indigo-red are formed. The liquid may then be shaken with chloroform, as suggested by Stokvis, and as a further evidence, the spectrum of the blue or purple chloroform extract may be examined by the spectroscope as recommended by MacMunn, when the band in red of indigo-blue is seen and a second band near the D line. A drop or two of nitric acid may be sub- stituted for the bleaching powder (Weber's test), but excess must be carefully avoided lest the indigo formed should be further oxidised to isatin. Bile - pigments if present should be precipi- tated by basic lead acetate. When the urine contains iodides iodine will be set free which gives a purple colour to chloroform, and which may also interfere with the test by oxidising the indigo pigments. It should also be mentioned that after the administration of thymol the urine gives, under such treatment, a bluish-green colour reaction. The residue obtained on evaporating the chloroform extract may be treated with alcohol which dissolves indigo-red but not indigo-blue. The washed indigo-blue may then be redissolved in chloroform, and yields a beautiful blue solution. Various methods for the estimation of indican have been devised, but these do not call for description in this place. The precipitation of amorphous or crystalline indigo pigments from urine, and the occasional formation of indigo calculi, will be referred to later. The clinical significance of the presence of large amounts of indigo in urine is due to the