YAWS 587 answerable) against the identity of syphilis and yaws is the occurrence of authentic cases of their co-existence. In some of these yaws patients contracted typical hard sores, and were cured by antisyphilitic treatment without any corre- sponding effect on the yaws. The latter differs, too, from syphilis in its localised distribution, its longer incubation, its different mode of infection, and age of incidence. It also occasionally occurs in outbreaks, and it resists antisyphilitic treatment. In addition, the primary lesion (if present) is not indurated ; the effect on general health is usually slight, and febrile attacks may produce improvement; the type of eruption, unlike that in syphilis, is constant; the mucous surfaces, eye, and testicles are practically immune ; and unless from entry of pyogenic organisms the lesions are not de- structive. Then the disease is auto-inoculable (Charlouis), no undoubted hereditary or congenital cases have been recorded, and mothers suffering from it have frequently been delivered of healthy children. In some Niger villages, where a large proportion of the children were affected by yaws, the writer failed to find evidence of congenital syphilis. Nor has he found the acquired disease in the tropics to differ in any degree from the ordinary type among Kroomen, in whom it is extremely common. Lastly, the morbid anatomy of yaws shows points of diver- gence from the syphilitic lesion. The granula- tion cells are not definitely grouped, and are unaffected by hyaline degeneration; there are no giant-cells, the vessel walls are unthickened, and the epithelium is more markedly altered, while the stroma is less evident (M'Leod). Histology.—With the exception of some pro- liferation of the fibrous structures (Nicholls), no marked change is found internally, unless from concomitant disease. In the skin the first change noted is slight dilatation of vessels in the papillary layer, but without alteration in their walls, together with some leucocytic ex- travasation. A few scattered infiltrations of granulation cells are seen near the vessels, and also slightly around the follicles and coil-glands, although these are themselves unchanged. These granulation cells are oval and polygonal, and have large eccentrically placed nuclei (plasma cells). Simultaneously the inter-papillary epidermis grows down, and its cells become enlarged and oedematous. The superjacent stratum granu- losum is involved, cornification is interfered with, the nuclei of the cells persist, and lamellae tend to form in the stratum corneum. This vascular dilatation, epithelial proliferation, and oedema and imperfect cornification, produce the scaly lesions. Later the infiltration with granu- lation cells becomes more general and denser around the vessels, follicles, and glands. Here and there are large connective tissue cells, but no attempt at organisation. An attenuated fibrous stroma supports the cells. The inter- papillary processes of epidermis grow further down, and the greatly lengthened papillae ap- proach the horny layer, while many leucocytes are seen between the prickle cells. Although cornification is imperfect it proceeds actively, and the horny layer becomes greatly thickened, but composed of still-nucleated cells, and separ- ated into lamellae divided by layers of leucocytic debris and fibrin. Pigmentation diminishes or disappears at the centre of the lesion, but returns after healing, chiefly in the lower epidermic layers. Most of the melanin granules are con- tained in the cells of the basal, and to some ex- tent of the granular layer, but are occasionally intercellular, and when they surround a con- nective tissue simulate a branching pigment cell (M'Leod). Bacteriology.—The numerous organisms pre- sent in the skin increases the difficulty of isolat- ing the one responsible, and although several have been described, in no case yet has the evidence been completed by successful inocu- lation. Pierez found a micrococcus on the surface of the skin and in the horny layer. He also obtained it in the blood, and from the latter made cultivations. He found a similar organ- ism in fowl yaws. Nicholls also invariably ob- tained in the growths a micrococcus from "5 fi to 1-5 /A in diameter, which occurred either singly or in twos, threes, fours, short chains, or small colonies, and multiplied by transverse fission. It was never present in the blood, but in one case was seen in the fibrous structure of lungs, liver, kidneys, and spleen, a fact which might possibly explain the body pains. Pure cultures to the third generation showed a white, mucoid, oval, or rounded mass, not so well displayed in fluid media. Cultures were also obtained from the dust of yaws hospitals, but inocula- tions on animals were again negative. Powell also, after careful preparation of the skin, made successful cultivations of a staphylococcus in 24 cases, and in two he found a yeast, the pre- sence of which might, he thought, explain the acid reaction of the discharge. Breda described a bacillus (Framboesia bacillus) as invariably present in the epidermis and corium, and Boyden and Hamilton obtained cultures in the case of the former of a bacillus not unlike bacillus subtilis. In none of these cases, how- ever, was the evidence completed by successful inoculations. Diagnosis.—A solitary initial papule might, perhaps, be mistaken for oriental sore, but the progress of the case would soon decide the diagnosis, and syphilis is practically the only disease that can be confused. Geographical con- siderations and other differences distinguish verruga. Prognosis.—Nicholls gives the mortality in