155 TUMOURS great dimensions. Of the hard species the composite odontome is the most frequent, and in the maxilla such a tumour may invade the antrum and grow to the size of a hen's egg. Many of these large odontomas have been errone- ously described as exostoses. In the mandible they rarely exceed the size of a dove's egg. A singular and important clinical fact in connec- tion with the hard varieties is this : they rarely cause trouble until like teeth they begin to erupt, and this phenomenon generally happens between the twentieth and twenty-fifth years, and this draws attention to them. They are generally diagnosed as dead bone. In the past, operations unnecessarily severe have been under- taken for their relief. Myelomata.—This genus consists of tumours composed of tissue identical in structure with the red marrow of young bone. These tumours were formerly classed as myeloid sarcomata, but they differ in many points from sarcomata, and above all things in the fact that they are not malignant. A myeloma arises in the cancellous tissue of bone. When fresh its cut surface is deep red, and looks like a piece of fresh liver and is very vascular. Microscopically this tissue abounds in multinuclear cells (giant cells) embedded in round or spindle cells. The giant cells are so abundant as to constitute the greater proportion of the tumour. The distribution of the myelo- mata is that of red marrow, but they exhibit a striking preference for certain bones. In the lower limb the tibia, especially its head, is the most frequent situation, and the lower end of the radius is the common situation in the upper limb. In the head the body of the mandible has the preference. Myelomata have also been observed in the clavicle, humerus, and ulna, the femur and patella, and the jaws. Clinical Characters.—Myelomata are rare tumours after the age of twenty-five. They grow slowly, and very gradually expand the bone immediately investing them, and occasion- ally it becomes so thin as to crackle on pressure. The soft tissue of the tumour sometimes perfor- ates its capsule, and pulsates synchronously with the beat of the heart. These tumours do not infect lymph glands or disseminate; and if removed before the tumours perforate the cap- sules they do not recur. This fact is important in regard to treatment, for instead of amputat- ing limbs to cure them, surgeons now excise the affected section of the bone whenever this is possible and leave the patients' useful limbs. Successful treatment of this kind has been carried out in the ulna, radius, humerus, clavicle, and even with the head of the tibia. Paget proved that some of the myelomata may be enucleated or scraped out of their capsules, and his example has in several instances been successfully followed. Myelomata are rare tumours, and a careful perusal of the periodical literature of hospital reports shows that at each of the eleven large hospitals in London one myeloma a year is above the average. Sarcomata.— The term sarcoma is applied to any connective-tissue tumour which exhibits malignant characters. It will therefore be useful to briefly describe the structure of these tumours, and then relate the manner in which they betray their malignity. Sarcomata are named according to the pre- vailing type of the cells composing them ; thus the round-celled kinds consist almost entirely of round cells, each possessing a large round nucleus which is always conspicuous in stained sections. There is very little intracellular substance; blood-vessels are abundant, but lymphatics are absent. The round-celled sarcoma is the most general- ised tumour that affects human beings ; it occurs in bone, muscle, nerves, glandular and muscular organs, ovary, testis, thymus, adrenal, and even in the delicate tissue of the retina. It may grow at any period of life, and even attacks the unborn child. One variety of the round-celled sarcoma re- produces the delicate structure of a lymph gland. This is known as lymphosarcoma, and arises in definite situations where this peculiar tissue abounds, e.g. the tonsil, root of tongue, superior mediastinum, and the retro-peritoneal tissue. The spindle-celled sarcomata are composed of cells resembling spindles, and though the in- dividual cells of a tumour display extraordinary uniformity, there is great diversity in the size of the cells in different tumours. In some the cells are small and oat-shaped, others are fusiform, or they may be extremely attenuated, and occasionally the cells are large and plump. In some situations spindle-celled sarcomata contain tracts of immature hyaline cartilage, these are termed chondrifying sarcomata. But the most extraordinary feature found in these tumours is the occasional occurrence of spindles with a tranverse striation like that which is met with in the young muscle cells. These are known as myosarcomata, and are found in the most unexpected situations, such as the testis, sinus of the kidney, and the neck of the utei'us, where muscle cells of the striped variety do not occur under normal conditions. The presence of hyaline cartilage in sarcomata of secreting glands like the parotid and the mamma, and the occurrence of tissue indis- tinguishable from striated muscle tissue in the testis and kidney, and also in lipomata of the periosteum and in the spinal canal, has never received an adeqiiate explanation, although it has thoroughly aroused the curiosity of path- ologists and led to much unsound speculation. One of the most striking species of the sarco- mata is that to which the adjective melanotic is applied on account of its blackness. This is