165 TUMOURS, INOPERABLE, TREATMENT OF The treatment of all inoperable tumours is best considered under two heads :— 1. The general management of all such cases. 2. The adoption of any special therapeutic measures. General Management.—The principles under- lying this are common to all these cases. They call for generous diet, fresh air and good hygienic surroundings, with digestive and other tonics. In addition, however, special measures are needed, based on the causes which actually bring about death. It has been already pointed out that the leading feature of inoperable tumours (malig- nant) is their progressive character, so that they kill by invading adjacent tissues, the factors that are constantly at work being ulceration, pressure, and metastasis. Consequently, there are induced by these not only certain local, but also constitutional effects, and death may be the result of any of the following conditions :— 1. Hsemorrhage. 2. Exhaustion from excessive discharges. •3. Septicfemia and saprsemia. 4. Continuous pain and mental depression. 5. Stricture of vital parts. 6. Visceral deposits. It will be as well to say a few words on each of the above points separately. Hoemorrhage.—Bleeding in inoperable tumours is often associated with a sloughing ulceration of the tissues and with great vascularity of the new growth, so that the ordinary methods of arresting haemorrhage cannot always be em- ployed. It would be useless to attempt to tie a bleeding vessel in the substance of a breaking down malignant growth, or in a soft pvilsating sarcoma, composed, as it is, mainly of a mass of blood-vessels. The best haemostatic agents to rely on are pressure, cold, heat, and styptics. Pj'essure, when used, must be employed thoroughly and judiciously. Small pads of dry medicated absorbent wool or strips of dry anti- septic lint, such as boric, should be carefully packed into the deeper parts of the wound or ulcer, and over these a firm compress applied. In some cases the "graduated compress" is very useful, while for the vagina and rectum " plugging" may require to be resorted to. Such plugs and pads used for the arrest of bleeding should not be disturbed too soon, yet not left too long untouched in case of septic absorption. Cold is a valuable haemostatic, and may be applied in the form of cold water or ice, or by the ether spray. This latter is a very effective agent in cases of haemorrhage. Strange as it may seem, the same may be said of heat. It must, however, be used at a certain temperature. Water should not have a less heat than 120° F., when it acts as a stimulant, causing contraction of muscular tissue through the vaso-motor nerves. Its value in uterine haemorrhages has long been recognised. The actual cautery, too, is often of great service m cases of bleeding. The old cautery irons have now been replaced for most purposes by the more modern galvano-cautery, and by Pacque- lin's thermo-cautery, this latter being a specially serviceable apparatus. In employing any of these to stop bleeding they should be used at a dull, almost invisible red heat, and the tissues should be made as dry as possible by previous pressure. This latter precaution applies also to the application of styptics—substances which often materially help in the arrest of haemor- rhage. They may act mechanically, as collo- dion, cotton wool, or tow, or, by reason of their astringency, as hazeline. This drug is a very useful haemostatic, and may be applied in its fluid state or by means of pads soaked in it. Other well-recognised substances are powdered alum and tannin, perchloride of iron, sulphate of copper, sulphate of iron, and nitrate of silver. Not only are these astringent, condensing the tissues and coagiilating the albumin, but they are also caustic in their action, and this has to be borne in mind. Thvis, the strong liq. ferri perchloridi, though invaluable as a haemostatic, may cause considerable sloughing of the tissues if too freely applied. Probably one of the best of these iron applications is Ehrlich's " styptic cotton." It may be packed directly into the recesses of a bleeding cavity, or may be enclosed in sterilised gauze and used as a pad or plug. Possibly experience may show that the more recent adrenalin solution may prove to be our most serviceable and useful haemostatic. In cases of bleeding from inoperable tumours there is not much scope for the internal use of any drugs, but, after taking the measures mentioned for preventing further loss of blood, recourse must be had to combat the effects of what has been already lost. Nothing is more beneficial than saline infusion. A couple of pints of sterilised salt solution introduced into the rectum, or, by means of the ordinary simple infusing apparatus, into the cellular tissue of the body, is a powerful restorative. Further, in these cases everything should be done to equalise the circulation and insure absolute rest and quietness. The food should consist of iced milk and cold soups, while all alcohol should be well diluted. Exhaustion from Excessive Discharges.—This condition arises in connection only with ulcer- ated growths, and must be met by the ordinary surgical principles on which all wounds are managed. Simple cleanliness, the prevention of decomposition, suitable dressings (either dry, watery, or oily), are all points requiring atten- tion, while the avoidance of movement and of all irritation, together with attention to drainage, must on no account be lost sight of. TJie prevention of decomposition is of import- ance, not only on account of its local effects, but as bearing on that other factor in these