URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 289 they have also been found, as also in the urine of pernicious anaemia by von Noorden and Laache, and in leuksemia by Prus. In acute yellow atrophy of the liver as much as 1"5 gramme of tyrosin has been present in the urine of twenty-four hours. The view generally accepted of the cause of their so abundant presence in this disease is that leucin and tyrosin are intermediate products of proteid metabolism, and that under normal conditions the nitrogen contained in them passed through the stage of ammonia, to take part in the formation of urea in the liver. When, how- ever, the liver cells have undergone extensive destruction these further changes are escaped, and leucin and tyrosin appear in the urine. This view receives much support from the very conspicuous diminution of the urea excretion in the disease in question. Von Noorden, on the other hand, is inclined to attribute their appear- ance to the action of bacteria in the tissues, and ascribes the smaller quantities found in phos- phorus-poisoning and severe ansemias to absorp- tion of leucin and tyrosin from the intestine, and failure of the ordinary destructive processes. Under normal conditions tyrosin administered by the mouth certainly does not appear as such in the urine, and even the benzine ring con- tained in it is broken up. The only exception to this rule is in the rare condition known as alkaptonuria, which will be described in a later section (p. 294). When tyrosin is present in considerable amounts some of it is usually deposited from the urine as a crystalline sediment, whereas leucin is very seldom so deposited. For their detection the following method may be employed :—The urine of twenty-four hours is precipitated with basic lead acetate and filtered. From the filtrate the lead is removed by passing a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen through it. The lead sulphide is filtered off, and the liquid is evaporated to a syrupy consistency. On standing leucin and tyrosin crystallise out, the former in needles, the latter in greenish spher- ules. It is usually better to remove the bulk of the urea present in the residue with a small quantity of absolute alcohol. The residue is then boiled with dilute ammoniacal alcohol, the solution is filtered, evaporated to a small bulk, and allowed to stand. Their crystalline forms usually suffice for the recognition of leucin and tyrosin. The needles of tyrosin are insoluble in acetic acid, but dissolve in ammonia and in hydro- chloric acid ; but if the quantity suffices, and if full certainty is desired, some of the special chemical tests should be applied. VIII. Sugars in Urine Glwose.—Seeing that diabetes mellitus and glycosuria have been dealt with in separate articles, it will be unnecessary to enter here VOL. X upon any discussion of the conditions which lead to the presence of glucose in the urine, and it will only be necessary to refer to the chief tests for its detection which are in use for clinical purposes. The simplest of these, known as Moore's test, is not a very delicate one, but is sometimes useful when the reagents for better tests are not available. To some of the suspected urine, placed in a test-tube, some liquor potassse is added, and, after mixing, the upper portion of the column of liquid is boiled. If sugar be present a deep brown colour is produced by its decomposition. It must be remembered that even normal urine shows a distinct darkening of tint under such treatment, and only the development of a pronounced brown colour affiords evidence of the presence of sugar. In the remaining tests advantage is taken of one or other of the conspicuous properties of glucose, viz. its power of reducing metallic salts, of imdergoing fermentation, of rotating the polarised ray, and of forming with phenyl- hydrazin an insoluble crystalline compound, glucosazone. The reduction tests are of great service, but it must not be forgotten that they only afford evidence of the presence of a reducing substance, which is not necessarily sugar, but which, if present in large amount, is probably of that nature. Trommer's test is performed as follows :—The urine is rendered strongly alkaline with liquor potassse and a solution of cupric sulphate is added, drop by drop, until the precipitate formed is not wholly redissolved. If sugar be present a reduction of the copper salt to cuprous hydrate occurs on heating and an orange-red precipitate appears. It is more convenient to employ freshly mixed Fehling's solution for the test. The Fehling's solution and the urine should be heated in separate test-tubes and mixed when hot. The mixture may be further heated if necessary. If sugar be present in considerable quantity the reduction occurs before the liquid is raised to the boiling-point, and when this is so the presumption that it is due to the presence of sugar is very strong. When, on the other hand, sugar is only present in traces it may be neces- sary to boil the liquid before a scanty reduction occurs, often with the production of only a pale green opacity. Under such circumstances the presence of sugar requires to be confirmed by other tests, as even normal urine contains reduc- ing substances, among which kreatinine and uric acid are the chief. Reducing substances also appear after the administration of certain drugs, such as salicylic acid, chloral, chloroform, and glycerine, and among other reducing agents lactose, glycuronic acid, and pyrocatechin call for mention. Homogentisic acid is an energetic reducing agent, and alkapton urines, in which 19