VOICE 503 (b) Chronic enlargement of the tonsils, with hypersecretion from their surface, and also from the congested pharyngeal mucous membranes. (c) There may be secondary alterations in the aural apparatus, deafness of varying degrees, with indrawn thickened membranes and ob- structed Eustachian tubes. When the deafness is pronounced it is an aggravating cause of the voice defect. The treatment of these cases will vary with the degree of the local lesions. Operative measures—removal of tonsils or aden- oids or other obstructions in the nose—may be necessary as a preliminary. The subsequent treatment consists in an attempt to restore the unacquired art of normal nasal respiration by the use of exercises such as those already described, and, thereafter, the daily use of vocal exercises conducted under the supervision of a medical man who has special knowledge of the defect and its treatment. In these exercises special attention should be devoted to the particular defects present, e.g. if the explosives are specially involved, the exercises should be directed to training the special muscular mechan- ism involved. In many cases the treatment has to be conducted along lines similar to those laid down for stammerers in vol. ix. Treatment has to be continued for many months. 3. The Nervous Mechanism involved.—Defects in voice production due to disturbance of the central or peripheral nervous mechanism are more common in adults than in children. Any conditions which prevent approximation of the cords interfere with normal voice production, e.g. paresis of the abductors, and any painful inflammation (laryngitis of different types). But the most striking cause of defective articulation is to be found in hysteria, in which functional aphonia is common. The treatment of the defect in voice produc- tion in these cases should be directed to the general disease, the cure of which will be followed by a return of the voice to its normal. Volsir.—Relating to the hollow of the hand or foot (Lat. vola, the hollow of the hand). Vola.tile Oils.—-Essential oils, such as oil of turpentine, of cajuput, of cloves, of peppermint, of pine, of buchu, and of sandal- wood. See Oils ; Pharmacology (Volatile Oils); and under the various oils themselves (Cajuput Oil, etc.). Volition. See Physiology, Neuro-Mus- CULAR Mechanism {Cerebrum, Discharging Mechanism, Volition). Volkmann's Deformity. — Con- genital dislocation of the ankle (tibio-tarsal luxation). Volkmann's Seat. >S'ee Spine, Surgi- cal Affections of {Lateral Curvature, Treat- ment, Preventive). Vol sell a.—A pair of forceps each blade of which carries one, two, or three sharp prongs; it is used in gynsecology to fix and drag down the cervix uteri; vulsellum. See Gynaecology, Diagnosis in (Volsella). Volt.—The unit of electro-motive force, or the force needed to make a current of one ampere to flow against a resistance of one ohm. Voltolini'S Disease.—Purulent laby- rinthitis in childhood. Volvulus. See Intestines, Surgical Dis- eases of {Obstruction, Volvulus) ; Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis, General {Etiology). Vomer.—A mesial bone of the cranium, shaped like a ploughshare (Lat. vomer, a plough- share), forming the posterior part of the septum of the nose. See Palate {Cleft, Appearances). Vomica.—A cavity (Lat. vomicus, ulcer- ated) in an organ, but especially in a lung. See Lung, Tuberculosis of {Physical Signs of Vomica Formation). Vomitingf. See also Abdomen, Clinical Investigation of {Symptoms); Abdomen, In- juries OF {Traumatic Peritonitis); Abdominal Aneurysm {Symptoms); Adrenal Glands, Ad- dison's Disease {Symptoms); Alcohol ; Alco- holism ; Anaesthesia, Chloroform (Vomiting and Retching); Anaesthesia, Ether {After-Sick- ness) ; Brain, Tumours op {Symptoms); Brain, Inflammations {Clinical Features); Brain, Surgery of {Concussion, Symptoms); Brain, Surgery of {Cerebral Abscess); Bronchi, Bron- chial Glands {Symptoms of Pressure); Cholera, Epidemic {Symptoms); Cocaine {Uses); Diges- tion AND Metabolism {Chemical Examination of the Gastric Contents); Emetics ; Gall-Blad- der and Bile-Ducts, Diseases of {Gall-stones, Symptoms); Gastro-Intestinal Disorders of Infancy (Symptoms); Hernia {Strangulation, Symptoms of); Hysteria {Disorders of Digestive System); Intestines, Surgical Aefections of {Obstruction); Labour, Operations {Induction, Indications); LeucocytHaEmia {Symptoms) ; Liver, Perihepatitis {Symptoms); Liver, Tropical Abscess {Symptoms); Liver, Port at. Thrombosis {Symptoms); Lung, Tuberculosis OF {Gastro-Intestinal Disturbance); Malinger- ing {Digestive System); Mediastinum {Growths, Sympto7ns) ; Meningitis, Tuberculous and Posterior Basic {Symptoms); Meningitis, Epi- demic Cerebro-Spinal {Symptoms); Muscles, Diseases of the {Trichiniasis, Symptoms); Nephritis {Chronic and Renal Cirrhosis, Symp- toms) ; Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Causes, Arsenical Poisoning); Pemphigus {Symp- toms) ; Pericardium, Diseases of {Pericarditis, Symptoms); Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis {Symptoms); Pneumonia, Clinical {Symptoms in Childhood); Pregnancy, Affections and