VESICUL^ SEMINALES 455 subjected to irritation, is always accompanied by subjective symptoms. In connection with the seminal vesicle, the inflammation sometimes shows a marked tendency to involve the perivesicular tissues, filling in the post-prostatic rectovesical space with a hard inflammatory extravasation, so that by the rectal feel it is impossible to define the posterior prostatic border. In severe cases this perivesical eff'usion may contain pus foci. This form of inflammation generally extends along the genital tract, beyond the vesicle to the cord and epididymis. A certain number of cases here, as elsewhere, under favourable circumstances terminate in recovery either by resolution, by fibrosis, or by the disappearance of the tuberculous focus altogether. Sometimes the process conies to a standstill, softening areas calcify, and a cal- careous nodule, which may remain quiescent, results. More often, however, the disease is continuously progressive, and abscesses form which may open into the bladder, the urethra, the peritoneum, the perineum, or the groin. The symptoms of tuberculous vesiculitis are those of the other forms of inflammation, but the existence of hard nodules in diff'erent parts of the organ which are not very tender on pressure, is very suggestive of the tuberculous nature of the disease; and when these are associated with similar nodules in the prostate or epididymis, the diagnosis is certain. Re- current urethral discharges are sometimes seen. The treatment of tuberculous vesiculitis should be by general hygienic measures, but where the disease is primary, removal of the affected organ by operation is called for; and when the epididymis is also affected operative measures may still be adopted. " Stripping " should not be practised in tuberculous disease, except for purposes of diagnosis, and then only in the gentlest manner. Little is known of the syphilitic aiTections of the seminal vesicles. G. Lewin once found the walls of the seminal vesicles indurated; in another case a cartilaginous induration of the walls was present to such a degree that there was hardly room for the head of a pin inside. Dr. Fuller has seen a case of mumps where the seminal vesicle shared with the epididymis and testicle in the inflammatory process; and Comby, in a case of acute mump orchitis and epididymitis, was able by rectal examination to determine the existence of marked tenderness of the corresponding half of the prostate and of the seminal vesicle on this side. Cysts.—Cysts are occasionally found either due to localised distensions from the vesicle itself or from obstruction of the ejaculatory duct. Their diagnosis can be made by needle puncture, and they can easily be emptied by aspiration. Should more radical measures be called for, they may be excised by the method described below for the removal of the seminal vesicles. Injuries.—Traumatisms in connection with the seminal vesicles are rare, owing to the protected position of the parts. They may be injured by a perforating wound involving the rectum and bladder, such as occurs occasionally when one is thrown against or sits upon a sharp body. They are also occasionally involved, one or both ejaculatory ducts being cut across or lacerated in surgical procedures, as in vesicle puncture per rectum, for the relief of retention, in extensive prostatectomies, in median perineal sections, where the cut is very deep, and in attempts to draw a stone too large in size through a perineal wound. From such injuries inflammation may result. Calculi.—Calculi of the seminal vesicles are rare. Guelliot says that these bodies are usvially small, and bear a strong resemblance to prostatic calculi. They have a nucleus of spermatozoa, epithelium, and mucus, and are usually small and white. On analysis they are found to consist of seven parts of phosphate and lime and one of animal matter. Keyes removed a calculus from the ejaculatory duct by perineal section, and Fuller succeeded in discharging one the size of a grain of wheat by his own method of "stripping." Malignant Disease of the Seminal Vesicle.—It is not uncommon for cancerous aff'ections of the prostate, bladder, rectum, or testicle to extend to and involve the seminal vesicles. Primary cancer of the seminal vesicle, however, is apparently quite rare, although, were digital rectal exploration of these organs more com- monly and systematically practised, it probably would be found to be of much more frequent occurrence than the present statistics indicate. Guelliot, who has analysed 14 cases, in which one or both seminal vesicles have been aff'ected by cancer, finds but one in which the growth was distinctly primary in the seminal vesicle Gay, of Boston, reports a case of primary cancer of the seminal vesicle in which he made an unsuccessful attempt to eradicate the disease by extirpating the organ. Sarcoma of the seminal vesicle, either primary or secondary, is of very rare occurrence. Zahn reports the only case of primary sarcoma of this organ. Malignant growths of this part disturb the sexual function, and, if at all extensive, interfere with urine drainage, and to a less extent with the functions of the lower bowel and rectum. They are also accompanied by pain more or less localised. The recital of clinical symptoms has been so meagre in the few cases reported, that an attempt at detail in this particular is impossible Where disease is confined to the seminal vesicle, speedy extirpation of the organ is advisable. Rydygier's incision, which is a modification of Kraske's, is the method which