445 VERTIGO movement either in the individual himself or in external objects. Reeling or staggering, it should be remembered, is not synonymous with giddiness, but is a motor phenomenon, represent- ing the individual's effort to preserve his equi- librium in the presence of abnormal sensations. Vertigo may result from affection either of the higher cerebral or of the subordinate cere- bellar centres, or it may be due to interference with the normal peripheral impressions to which reference has already been made. But whatever be its cause, whether central or peri- pheral, the individual does not, as a rule, take cognisance of the particular source to which his vertigo is due. All that he notices is the result upon his consciousness, namely, that he feels giddy. Whether the giddiness be due to laby- rinthine, ocular, or other peripheral defects, to gross cerebral or cerebellar disease, or to some toxic affection of the centres, is a problem for the physician to solve. When vertigo is severe, nausea and vomiting tend to become superadded, as in the familiar instance of sea-sickness. Such vomiting has been ascribed by some to connection between the cerebellum and the gastric fibres of the vagus, whilst others trace it to the connection between the auditory and vagal nuclei in the bulb. It may also be due to disturbance of still higher centres, the same centres which perceive the giddiness. It is, in any case, a true cerebral vomiting. Considerable attention has been paid to the question of whether there is a sensation of movement in the individual himself—so-called "subjective" vertigo; or whether the apparent movement is in surrounding objects, the individual himself not seeming to move— "objective" vertigo. "The appearance of movement in stationary bodies," says Dr. Hughlinga Jackson, "must, as a sensation, depend upon movements of the patient's eyes, occurring involuntarily, and leading to erroneous visual judgments. Where the mental impres- sion is that of movement of the patient's own body, the explanation is not so obvious." In some cases of vertigo, surrounding objects seem as if they were revolving round the patient, either horizontally to one side or the other, or vertically up or down. The direction generally corresponds to that in which the patient feels himself moving. But sometimes objects appear to move in the opposite direction to that of the subjective movement, as in the vertigo of waltzing, probably because of the direction of movement of images across the retina. In still other cases, surrounding objects seem to move in directions which do not in any way correspond with the subjective vertigo, as, for example, when objects seem to advance and recede, or when each object appears to rotate round its own axis. The explanation of such cases is obscure. Vertigo in Healthy People.—Before passing on to the various diseased conditions associated with giddiness, a brief reference may be made to certain varieties which scarcely fall within the category of pathology. Thus, for example, the giddiness produced by the passage of a galvanic current transversely through the head is prob- ably referable to stimulation of the cerebellum. The curious fact is observed that, on closure of the current and during its flow, the individual tends to fall towards the side of the anode, whilst on opening the current he falls towards the kathode. Stronger currents produce nys- tagmus in addition, the direction of nystagmus during the current being towards the anode. Another variety of giddiness is that which results from rapid rotation of the body around its own axis, as in waltzing, or associated with sudden changes in our relation to space, as when on a swing or switchback. Such giddiness is probably due to rapid reversal of pressure in the endolymph when the direction of movement suddenly changes. The giddiness which some people experience on stepping unexpectedly from firm ground on to a somewhat boggy piece of moorland turf is probably due to sudden deficiency in the sensation of resistance from the skin of the soles and the muscles of the lower limbs. The vertigo which affects certain individuals when on "giddy" heights—so-called tower- or cliff-giddiness—-is probably attribut- able largely to the loss of normal afferent im- pressions from the muscles of the head and eyes. Ordinarily we are accustomed, by move- ments of the head and eyes, to compare our position in space with that of surrounding objects at our own or a higher level, and when such objects are absent, vertigo results. Closing the eyes removes the symptom. Diseases associated with Vertigo.—Many patho- logical intracranial conditions are associated with vertigo. Thus it occurs in head-injuries, slight or severe, and in cases of sudden altera- tions of intracranial circulation, whether in the form of anaemia or hypereemia. The symptom is very common in women during the meno- pause. It is still more evident in cases of intracranial haemorrhage or softening, and may be a premonitory symptom of various vascular lesions of the brain. Old people with ather- omatous cerebral vessels often complain of giddiness, and if this be associated with head- ache, and especially if there be no evidence of labyrinthine affection, its significance should never be minimised. Vertigo also occurs in chronic as well as in acute increase of intra- cranial pressure; thus it is present in many cases of cerebral tumour, and is especially severe when the growth is in the region of the cere- bellum or of its middle peduncle. In other diseases of the central nervous system, more especially in disseminated sclerosis, attacks of vertigo are common. Epileptic vertigo is a