VACCINATION 387 1839 did the same; also Badcock in 1840. In 1852 the American physicians Drs. Adams and Putnam again succeeded, and the vaccine lymph thus obtained was extensively used in Boston and its neighbourhood. In 1865 a Commission, appointed by the Society of Medical Sciences at Lyons, and presided over by Chauveau, seemed to arrive at results at variance with those of the earlier observers. In their experi- ments the inoculation of cows with variolous matter produced not a vesicle but a papule; this papule could not be produced in an animal which had had cowpox, either naturally or artificially ; also in an animal on which a papule from variolous matter had been developed cow- pox could not be induced. The lymph from the Lyons papule, when used on the human subject, induced not cowpox but smallpox, and this result was seen even in a second remove. Somewhat earlier similar results were obtained by Martin of Boston, U.S.A., as a large number of persons " vaccinated " by him from vesicles raised on a cow's udder by inoculation of variolous lymph were nearly all attacked with smallpox, and three died. In 1885, and again in 1892, Dr. Simpson produced lymph by inoculating calves with variolous lymph. It appears that success much more often follows when young calves are used rather than mature animals, and when the variolous lymph was taken not later than the fifth day of the rash. In several cases the tendency of the lymph to produce a generalised eruption was seen only in the earlier removes from the human, and disappeared after passing the lymph several times through calves. "Surgeon-Major King in 1889, being then stationed at Madras, inocu- lated a young bull-calf with fifth-day smallpox lymph obtained from a child suffering from the disease. On the eighth day after the inocula- tion a crop of vesicles made their appearance not at points of insertion, but some little dis- tance away; from the lymph obtained from these vesicles another calf was then inoculated. In this calf, again, secondary vesicles also formed at each point of insertion of the lymph. The lymph stock was carried on through three more generations in calves, the vesicular eruption being now in each instance strictly localised to the points of insertion. With lymph obtained from the fifth calf of the series a number of children were vaccinated successfully." ^ It appears probable that the apparently negative results in many of the eai-lier experiments were less negative than were then supposed to be. The vaccine vesicle is not as a rule seen the first time variolous matter is introduced into a calf. In many instances it has appeared only in the fifth or sixth passage through calves. Dr. Copeman's own experiments go to confirm this view. Even in the calves which showed ^ Copeman, Vaccination, p. 55. no vesicles, subsequent vaccination with vaccine lymph produced no effect, and the earlier calves in each series from direct variolous inoculation had papules without definite vesiculation. Dr. Copeman says :— "I have thus far obtained an undoubtedly successful result in one series only out of four attempts; but I have at any rate been able to satisfy myself that it is possible to variolate the calf, and, further, that the result obtained in the first instance may become greatly modified in the course of successive removes ; and, again, that animals which have been thus treated are no longer susceptible to vaccination." He adds (p. 64):—" If it can, as I believe, be conclusively proved that smallpox lymph, by passing through the system of the calf, is so altered in character as to become deprived of its power of causing a generalised eruption, while inducing at the site of inoculation a vesicle indistinguishable from a typical vaccine vesicle; and, more important still, if it be shown that when transferred again to man it has by such treatment completely lost its former power to produce a general disease, it may be fairly asserted that cowpox—or, rather, that the artificially inoculated form of the dis- ease which we call vaccinia—is nothing more nor less than smallpox modified by transmission through the bovine animal." It seems, therefore, to be all but proved that cowpox is only much attenuated smallpox, and that the protection it gives is due to the manu- facture within the system of the vaccinated person of the same antidote, the presence of which, after an attack of smallpox, brings the disease to an end and prevents, in the majority of persons, a second attack. It is, however, well known that in a small minority even the protection afforded by a previous attack of smallpox fails, and the disease is again taken. Louis XV. died of a second attack at the age of sixty-four, having had his first attack of the disease fifty years earlier. The German Vac- cination Commission in 1884 considered that the proportion of second to first attacks was about 1 in 636 cases. It is, however, certain that the protection derived from vaccination does not last as long as the protection from the survived disease, the amount of antidote formed being even in efficient vaccination much less than in smallpox itself. The antidote may vary, too, in more than one way; it may be poor in quality and deficient in quantity. It is probable that it is formed round each vaccine vesicle, and, if so, there would be four times as much from four vesicles as there would be from one, and much more from a large vesicle than from a small one. The degree of protection from vaccination would, therefore, vary with the number and size of the vesicles, and with the length of time which has elapsed since the vaccination. It is highly probable, too, that