51 TOXICOLOGY in; the surface is cold and clammy, the pulse feeble and irregular, there is great restlessness and anxiety, the mind often remaining clear to the end. Cramps in the legs not unfrequently occur, and there may be convulsions. In fatal cases death from exhaustion usually takes place in from one to four days. The General Treatment of Poisoning.— The indications are : to remove or neutralise any poison that may be in the digestive tract, to counteract the effects of that which has been absorbed, and to promote its elimination; to keep the patient alive until the effects of the poison have passed off, and to alleviate pain and other general symptoms. Emetics.—Half-drachm doses of zinc sulphate, dissolved in a few ounces of warm water, re- peated if necessary, act quickly without causing depression ] or a dessert-spoonful of mustard may be given in a tumblerful of warm water. A teaspoonful of ipecacuanha wine is a good emetic for children. In addition to the emetic, the patient should be made to drink copiously of warm water in order to aid the vomiting and to wash out the stomach. In some cases it is preferable to give a hypodermic injection of one- tenth of a grain (ten minims of the B.P. injec- tion) of apomorphine hydrochlorate. In the absence of an emetic the fauces may be tickled with a feather, or even with the finger, and copious draughts of warm water given. The stomach-pump or tube is the most effica- cious means of emptying the stomach. When using the stomach-pump a hard, rigid tube is to be avoided lest it should injure the oesophageal walls. The tube should be passed down the oesophagus, keeping it well against the posterior wall; some water is always to be injected into the stomach before any fluid is extracted, the object being to wash out the stomach without entirely emptying it, which might cause injury to its coats. Five or six feet of small india- rubber tubing, one end of which has been slipped over a funnel, is a good substitute for the pumps, and indeed is sometimes preferable. The free end is passed down the oesophagus, and then a pint or more of warm water is poured into the funnel, which is now held vertically over the patient's mouth as high as the tubing permits. When the funnel is nearly empty, the tube close to it is pinched tight with the finger and thumb, and the funnel inverted, is depressed until it is lower than the stomach; on removing the finger and thumb the tube acts as a syphon and empties the stomach. As with the stomach-pump, the alternate introduction and withdrawal of warm water is to be per- severed in until the washings are free from odour and consist of clear water. If the stomach contains much lumpy, solid matter, an emetic may be necessary before using the pump or tube, in order to avoid clogging. Neither the stomach-pump, nor the tube, nor emetics are to be used in cases of corrosive poisoning; the proper treatment in such cases is to neutralise the poison. Carbolic acid constitutes an excep- tion to this rule. The stomach-pump or tube is especially useful in cases of poisoning by opium, chloral hydrate, alcohol, the vegetable and most of the mineral irritants, phosphorus and the alkaloids. In strychnine poisoning it will be necessary to administer chloroform before the tube can be passed. After evacu- ating the stomach a purgative should be given unless spontaneous purging has occurred. Antidotes are remedies which counteract the effects of poisons ; their action is either mechani- cal, chemical, or physiological. Flour mixed with water acts mechanically when given in poisoning by cantharides, magnesia acts chemi- cally in the case of the mineral acids, and atro- pine is regarded as a physiological antidote to morphine. Elimination of the poison which has been absorbed may be promoted by purges, diuretics, and special remedies in the case of central poisons. The means to be taken to keep the patient alive until the effects of the poison have passed off are determined by the nature of the poison ; artificial respiration in hydrocyanic acid and severe opium poisoning, external warmth in poisoning by chloral hydrate and carbolic acid, and the administration of stimulants in many forms of poisoning, are illustrations. In addition, excessive pain, useless vomiting and purging, with other general symptoms, are to be controlled by appropriate means. PosT-MoRTEM Appearances produced by Poisons The most characteristic appearances are pro- duced by corrosives, irritants, and blood poisons. Many of the more important alkaloidal poisons do not produce characteristic appearances. The indications afforded by corrosives and irritants comprise hypertemia, softening and ulceration of the mucous membrane, with perforation of the wall of some portion of the digestive canal. Hypersemia is a common effect of an irritant poison; it is usually most marked in the stomach, and may be either diffuse or in patches; it is most commonly seen at the cardiac end, less frequently at the pyloric end. The surface of the injected mucous membrane is often covered with viscid mucus, which may be blood-stained. Softening of the mucous membrane of the stomach is chiefly caused by corrosives, and is due to immediate chemical action. It is not a common condition, but is almost invariable in poisoning by the alkalies. Ulceration of the mucous membrane of the stomach occasionally results from irritant poisoning, due to intense local action, or to the occurrence of infarcts. Ulceration must be distinguished from the re- moval of patches of mucous membrane by the action of corrosives; the former is a pathological