432 VENEREAL DISEASE rhagia, condylomata, and buboes, whilst the bones showed nodes. The mortality was great at first, but afterwards the epidemic died away. Morula or button scurvy appears to have been allied to syphilis. It occurred in Ireland during the early part of the last century, but is now extinct, and as the pathology of venereal dis- ease was at that time in a state of extreme confusion, it is unlikely that the exact nature of the disease will ever be known. It has, therefore, to be classed with Saint Euphemia's evil (1727), the disease of St. Paul's Bay (1760), of Brunn in Moravia, and of Chavanne Lure, as probably syphilitic in origin. Ulcerating granuloma of the pudenda is also known as " The Groin Ulceration" of British Guiana. It begins in the form of papules which increase in size, become abraded and then granulate. There is not much suppura- tion, but the abraded surfaces bleed readily and finally scar over. [See also "Pudenda," vol. viii. p. 347.) Venereal Disease in Animals.—Horses and dogs are both liable to contract disease during sexual intercourse. " La Dourine," badly called veterinary syphilis, is a disease communicable by coitus, which has long prevailed amongst the horses of the French army. It was first noticed in France at Tarbes in 1851, though it was observed and described by J. Ammon in the grand-duchy of Posen as early as 1796. The disease attacks the reproductive organs, where it presents certain local manifestations, followed by numerous eruptions and by consti- tutional symptoms, the most prominent being a paralysis of the animal's hind quarters. The duration of the affection is a few months to a year. Death occurs from exhaustion or hypo- static pneumonia, though recovery sometimes occurs. Dogs suffer from certain infective granulo- mata often called papillomata, condylomata, and warts. The contagion is conveyed during the act of coitus, and the tumours are not dependent upon the irritation of any discharge. The tumours can be transplanted artificially. Secondary deposits occur in the lymphatic glands, as well as in the liver and spleen, but the growths can only be inoculated upon dogs. Much further investigation is required in con- nection with the pathology of these interesting growths, for it is said that they may be inherited, and it is possible that the tumour cells are themselves infective. Venesection. The Operations ..... 432 The Indications for .... 432 See also Beriberi {Treatment); Brain, Sur- gery of {Compression, Treatment); Bronchi, Bronchitis {Treatment); Chlorosis {Treatment); 'EcLAMFSiA {Treatment); Ljver, Congestion op {Treatment); Mediastinum {Growths, Treat- ment) ; Uraemia {Treatment). This operation consists in the abstraction of blood by incision into a vein. The median cephalic vein at the bend of the elbow is the vessel usually selected. The operation is done as follows :—The skin of the part is thoroughly cleansed, and a bandage is then rolled tightly round the upper arm and the patient is directed to grasp something firmly in the corresponding hand. The skin over the vein is then gently stretched by the fingers of one hand of the operator, and an oblique incision is made across the vessel with a sharp sterilised knife. The blood is allowed to flow into a vessel until a sufficient quantity has been withdrawn. This operation was formerly very much used, and in a somewhat indiscriminate manner, for all sorts of diseases, acute or chronic, whether in sthenic or in asthenic individuals. It is now compara- tively rarely used, but there are good reasons for believing that it is a valuable therapeutic measure, and that its judicious use at the present day would be beneficial. There are two types of disease for which it is specially applicable: (a) in advanced cases of heart disease, when the heart is dilated, its muscle weak, the peripheral circulation dis- tended, and the orthopnoea and general distress of the patient are extreme, the abstraction of from 4 to 10 ounces of blood is sometimes followed by the most striking relief, this occur- ring in cases where the usual cardiac remedies have been tried with little or no result. Even although the relief in such cases may not be permanent, the favourable results of the opera- tion warrant its adoption in some cases. It should only be carried out after the more ordi- nary modes of depletion have been tried, e.g. judicious use of cathartics and diuretics, com- bined with the administration of general and local cardiac tonics. Before considering vene- section in such cases care should be taken to see that the aggravated nature of the symptoms i are not in great part due to the presence of hydrothorax, the relief of which by aspiration j may be followed by very satisfactory results. {b) In cases of acute pneumonic fever, especi- I ally in sthenic subjects, venesection may be I beneficial in some cases. Its manner of action | is probably a twofold one. It directly relieves 1 the strain on the cardiac muscle, and is indirectly | beneficial, through the removal of a quantity of I the toxic material that is present in the blood | in these conditions, and which is responsible for the symptoms of the disease. Interesting sidelights on the value of vene- section are sometimes afforded in other depart- ments of medicine. Thus in obstetric practice it is occasionally observed that in acute infection j occurring after pregnancy or in the puerperium, j e.g. eclampsia or puerperal septicaemia, the i I