422 VEINS, DISEASES OF platelets. Clinically it is essentially the result of stagnation of the blood-stream, together with some other cause which can bring about the formation of the fibrin ferment. Such causes may be found in the vessel wall or in the blood itself. Among the first any injury or contusion, or laceration, or the exposure of the vessel in a wound, or any inflammatory or degenerative change in the wall of the vessel, may cause thrombosis ; but the factors in this class are of less importance from the point of view of treat- ment than those of the second class which include the cause usually determinable in an ordinary and uncomplicated case of thrombosis. The hfemic conditions may be described generally as any condition which affects the physiological integrity of the leucocytes, as thereby there is a tendency for the liberation of the fibrin ferment. We may include in this group all cases from those in which the patient is suffering from an actual septicfemia or pyaemia, to even that less virulent form which can only be described as a " gouty " condition, and including those in which there is a general condition of exhaustion, and in this last variety there is an added tendency from the slowing of the blood-stream. The tendency in any of these cases is increased by any local or general interference with the circulation, such as a weak heart, loss of the elasticity of the arteries, by the compression of a tourniquet or a tight bandage, or by pressure from a tumour. The combined action of these two causes is exemplified in the thrombosis which occurs in the later stages of exhausting diseases, such as phthisis, typhoid fever, or prolonged suppurative conditions. This effect of slowness of the blood- stream is in part due to an alteration in the state of the endothelial cells, which are ill- nourished when the blood that bathes them is not renewed with the usual rapidity. Toxic materials or parasites in the blood- stream frequently determine thrombosis. In malaria the parasites actually plug the small vessels of the brain and spinal cord, and in py£emia and septicfemia the organisms have a direct coagulating effect on the blood. Pathology.—Following upon such conditions a clot may form in a vein, and usually extends for some distance along the vessel, or at least to the point where the vein joins another one. At this point the thrombus is liable to be broken, and part to be carried off in the blood- stream, forming an embolus. The thrombus adheres to the vessel wall, and if the circulation be active the red corpiiscles and the colouring matter are washed out, and the clot is of a pale colour or white thi-ombus, while if the colour- ing matter remains a red thrombus is the result. The next stage in the process is that an in- flammatory change is produced in the vessel wall, and a series of changes ensues, the same as those found in an artery {q.v.), with the result that the thrombus becomes organised, and thereb}' converted into a fibrous cord which may permanently block the vessel, or may in part be absorbed, with the result that the lumen is restored to a certain extent. Other changes which may subsequently occur are— 1. Calcification, consisting in a deposit of lime salts in the thrombus, and resulting in the formation of a phlebolith, a small round and hard nodule frequently met with in varicose veins. Phleboliths are formed from the salts present in the blood, and consist, like bone, mainly of phosphate of lime, with the sulphates of lime and potash. They are commonest about the base of the bladder in varicosities of the pros- tatic plexus and in nsevi in which thrombosis has occurred. 2. Simple disintegration may apparently occur, a change in which the thrombus is gradually broken up, and the fragments carried off in the general circulation without any bad effects. 3. Embolism and septic or infective softening of the thrombus are serious complications, the occurrence of which entirely alters the character of an apparently simple case, and which must always be borne in mind. Septic or infective softening is due to the action of micro-organisms, which may have formed the original nucleus of the thrombus or may reach the clot when it has beeia formed from the vessel wall, as in cases of septic phlebitis. As the result of their action, the thrombus is broken down into a soft pulpy mass, around which further thrombosis may occur, and so prevent the access of the infective material to the general circulation. If the softening pro- ceeds with greater rapidity than this protective clotting, the broken-down particles enter the circulating blood, and are carried to the right side of the heart and to the lungs, producing secondary thrombi there and in other parts, which again break down and form abscesses. Effects of Thrombosis.—These depend upon the situation and size of the affected vessel. In small veins the difficulty in the return circula- tion is soon overcome by the blood finding its way by collateral channels ; but when there is important interference, the result is oedema of the distal part of the limb, which may be severe and persistent, and even lead to moist gangrene of the limb. In the lower limb the ojdema usually commences about the ankle, and spreads upwards to the point of obstruction. As the oedema increases, the veins become obscured in it, and may be felt as gutters or grooves in a solid mass of tissue. There is at first a sensa- tion of stiffness or tightness in the part, and