WRIST-JOINT INJURIES 551 fractures which pass obHqiiely from the dorsal margin of the carpal surface to the palmar surface of the shaft of the radius, three-quarters of an inch from the end of the bone. Of the remaining five, three were impacted with frac- tures of the carpal surface, after the manner of ordinary Colles' fracture; two presented no signs of such impaction. The following is the history of an example of the injury observed by myself:— A jockey, aged nineteen, was backing for the first time a three-year-old filly; she bucked and burst the girths, and sent saddle and rider into the air. The rider fell to the ground, striking first on the back of his right hand. I saw him the day following. The inj ury had been readily recognised by the deformity, the facility of reduction, and the distinct osseous crepitus felt on the reduction ; immediately on the relaxation of the reducing force the deformity recurred. I took the patient into hospital and verified the details, and treated the patient until union was obtained. It would seem, then, that Rhea Barton, and Mr. Callender, and Professor Smith were hither- to the only observers of the clinical details of the injury, and that the pathological facts bearing on it were not much more plentiful here or in America. I need not then apologise when I record the recent injury taken previous to reduction, and a series of eight pathological specimens obtained, one from the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, to which it was presented by Mr Swan in 1885, and the seven which I have myself procured from the ana- tomical department of the School of Physic in Ireland. I think we may then fairly reject the conclusion arrived at by M. Lecomte, who states his opinions in a series of dogmatic assertions, of which this is the first:—" All the fractures of the inferior extremity of the radius are pro- duced by a single and the same class of fall— falls on the palm of the hand." It is, I think, clear that the reversed Colles' is the result of a fall on the back of the hand. Epiphysary Separations.—The next group of our series includes two specimens of epiphysary separation, with which I have also the casts of the limbs of the patient. The third specimen I place in this group with less confidence, but I will presently state my reason. The two recent specimens are taken from the limbs of a boy who died a few days after a fall from a height on his head, the head injury proving fatal. The casts in these cases (Fig. 8, A) contrast, as many similar casts in our collection do, with the representations of the deformity (Fig. 8, B) in Colles' fracture, in the transverse features of their dorsal and palmar projections, and in the folding of the skin in the palmar depression, and again in the absence of abduction of the hand. If we add to these the easy reduction of the fracture and the facility of obtaining crepitus, and, still more remarkable, the facility of maintaining the reduced fracture in place, phenomena all long since pointed out by Smith, which I may state I have frequently observed and verified myself, there are, I think, ample grounds for questioning the recent statement of Professor Macleod, that " there are no distinc- tive signs by which a separation of it (the radial epiphysis) can be differentiated from an ordinary Colles' fracture." The united fracture I place in this group is remarkable when com- pared with all or any specimen of the collection of Colles' fractures, for, while there has been clearly a fracture at the usual seat, it alone presents the feature of a styloid process bearing its normal relation to the ulnar styloid, and a carpal surface almost without maldirection. There are faint traces of an ulnar fracture just Fig. 8. above its epiphysis, as often occurs with the radial detachment. The recent specimens, I should note, present fractures confined to the radius. On one side the lower fragment is comminuted; on the opposite, simple; a little scale of bone is detached from the diaphysis on the side which shows the comminution. Longitudinal Fractures of the Lower E7id of the Radius.—I shall now briefly examine the longitudinal fractures of the lower end of the radius, and, I hope, show that they result from causes other than falls on the palm of the hand. The leading case which bears on this question is that recorded by Bigelow. The catalogue of the Warren Museum contains this description of the specimen, 1035:—"The lower extremity of the radius, showing a stellate crack of the articular surface and extending up- wards for more than an inch. From a patient who died of other injuries. At first there was only a complaint of lameness as from a sprain.