VISION, THE FIELD OF 481 test-objects, is carried out in the following way: —The apparatus consists of a large vertical screen made of black velvet, of two metres' diameter, and marked out with fine black cord in concentric and radiating lines. The con- centric lines represent at regular intervals the distance in millimetres from the centre to the margin of the screen. The radiating lines mark the various meridians. The fixation object is usually placed at the centre of the screen, but may be removed to either margin if a more extended area is required. The test-objects, which are white, vary in diameter from 1 to 20 mm., those in most common use being from three to six. A long rod covered with the same material with which the screen is made, and supplied with a small spring-catch at its ex- tremity—the "carrier"—is used for moving the test-object about over the screen. The patient is placed at one or two metres from the centre of the screen, according to circum- stances, and is supplied with a chin-rest. The result of the examination is first marked out on the screen with black pins, and after- wards transferred to a chart upon which there has been previously recorded the results of the ordinary perimetric examination. The transference of the field from screen to chart is most conveniently carried out by refer- ence to a prepared table of equivalents. This table gives in degrees and minutes the angular separation from the centre of each concentric arc marked on the screen, or of the fractions of a metre as in the table here given from Meisling's paper in the Annales d'oculistiqiie, December 1900. Distance from Eye. Metre. Two Metres. One Metre. i 3° 34' 7° 7' 2 8 7° 7' 14° 2' •A. a 10° 37' 20° 33' 4 S 14° 2' 26° 34' 5 8 IT 21' 32° 6 8 20° 33' 36° 52' i 23° 38' 41° 11' a 8 26° 34' 45° The carrying out of this test also entails careful attention to the following points :— 1. Careful correction of refraction. 2. An equal and constant illumination of the screen. 3. Accuracy of fixation on the part of the patient. 4. The tendency to rapid retinal exhaustion from continued fixation, which can only be com- bated by frequently repeated intervals of rest. In the normal eye the visual acuity, which is highest at the macula lutea, rapidly falls as we pass towards the periphery of the retina. Thus when the field is tested by Bjerrum's method at two metres' distance, a test-object of 18 mm. diameter, which subtends a visual angle of ^° 1', VOL. X gives the field of vision as with the ordinary perimeter. When a smaller test-object is used the normal field becomes reduced in extent accordingly. As can be seen from the chart (No. 2) in which the ordinary perimetric field is shaded grey, while the central part, left white, represents the area responding to the smaller test-object. The chart also shows how Left Eye. CHART 2.—Normal field for white by Bjerrum's method (Test-I 4"" )• the blind spot of Mariotte increases in diameter as the test-object is reduced in size. The blind spot is surrounded by a zone of retina of relatively reduced visual power, and which fails to respond to the smaller test-objects. The irregularity of outline of the blind spot is Left Eye. Chaet 3.—Peripheral limitatiou of the field as found in hysteria. due to the large vessels passing over it {see Chart 2). The clinical importance of morbid changes in the field of vision arises from the fact that certain forms of defect are characteristic of distinct types of disease. Transitory peripheral limitation of the field of vision is met with in hysteria {see Chart 3). In this condition the results of different examinations may vary widely. If a prolonged examination of the field be carried out, it is 31