UTERUS, NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE 359 the nature of the trouble and demands operative assistance. When the tumour is ivholly or in part abdo- minal it should be easy to diagnose it from an uncomplicated pregnancy of the same volume, but it will frequently be impossible to assert or to deny the coexistence of fibroid disease with a comparatively early pregnancy. Some change in symptoms may occur, especially in the arrest of haemorrhage if it existed before the pregnancy began. Mammary signs and softening of the cervix may exist in fibroid disease apart from pregnancy, and are in no case certain signs of gestation. Frequently the diagnosis cannot be certain until the mid-term of pregnancy brings the certain signs, or unless one or more fibroids can be felt per vaginam or per abdomen, and recognised apart from the enlarged, softened, and manifestly pregnant uterus. Extra-uterine pregnancy, when advanced, will be easily distinguished from fibroids if the embryo is still alive, but difficulty arises when the child has perished and involution changes have occurred, or when extra-uterine pregnancy coexists with fibroids of the uterus. The symp- toms of pregnancy may be much overshadowed by those of the fibroid. Hsemorrhage from the uterus may occur, while pressure symptoms and distress from increasing size would be aggravated by the coexisting pregnancy. If the history is well known and trustworthy it will be of great assistance, and probably the symptoms would demand interference for the removal of one or both conditions. Ovarian and broad ligament cysts might be supposed to be easily diagnosed from fibroids, but in some cases the smooth, soft myoma greatly resembles an ovarian cyst on palpation, often yielding a sense of fluctuation, while the great test of passing the sound frequently fails to correct these faulty observations. It is assumed that the uterine cavity is elongated in cases of fibroid enlargement, and that, as it is unaltered in cases of ovarian cyst, the passing of the sound will give a diagnostic result. Unfortunately the distortion of the canal in many cases of fibroids, and its absolute blocking by submucous growths or adhesions in others, may completely prevent the passage of the sound and falsify the conclusions obtained. The duration of history should assist the diagnosis, but patients, even when honest, are often unobservant and inaccurate, and will give one year's history for a tumour that has obviously been growing five or more years. Lastly, abnormal hsemorrhage, although re- garded as typical in cases of fibroids, does not always occur when they are present, whereas it may be present in ovarian cysts, especially in cases of dermoid cysts, and if tubal disease or endometritis coexist. Here again time is the great elucidator. Having found the tumour, its rate of growth can be observed, and should this be rapid, operation may be forced on the surgeon whether the tumour may be ovarian or uterine. The solid tumours of the ovary are much less common than the cystic, and also less common than uterine fibroids. They can sometimes be diagnosed by their position, or by their mani- fest separation from the uterus, but these tests are not infallible. Inasmuch as solid ovarian tumours are seldom innocent an immediate diagnosis is necessary, and must be made even by exploratory incision if necessary. Hasmatocele when recent is easy of diagnosis from fibroids, but sometimes in an old case where the blood has coagulated and a firm tumour results the distinction is difficult. Splenic, hepatic, and renal tumours, if seen before the abdomen is filled by the growth, should be easily distinguished from fibroids of the uterus which grow from below upwards. The cases threatening confusion are rare, but their possible existence must be remembered. Retro-peritoneal growths, chiefly sarcomatous, may usually be recognised by their compara- tively rapid growth, by the unaltered length of the uterine cavity, by the absence of hsemor- rhage, and by the immobility of the tumour. Sometimes these criteria fail, as when a fibroid is undergoing destructive changes or sarco- matous degeneration, and therefore increases rapidly in size, at the same time becoming less mobile. In these cases an exploratory incision may be the only means of diagnosis, and is certainly advisable when there is a doubt, for where the growth proves to be removable the exploratory incision is the first step of the major operation. On the other hand, should the growth be unfit for operation no great danger will be incurred as a result of explora- tion, provided strict asepsis is preserved. Sarcomata of the uterus may well be mistaken for fibroids. The question often is whether any given tumour was a sarcoma from the first, or whether the malignant growth has supervened in a pre-existing fibroid. The practical question here is less of diagnosis than of treatment. Distended bladder so frequently occurs in ab- dominal tumours that a catheter should be passed as a routine practice in all cases before operation, and even before an opinion is ex- pressed. Hydatids of the abdomen would appear more likely to be confused with cystic than with solid tumours, but occasionally they are found to fill the abdomen with a mass of hard round bosses yielding no general fluctuation, and closely simulating a multinodular fibroid. Un- fortunately, as in other cases, neither the history nor the symptoms avail much. Both conditions are alike compatible with apparently perfect health, and in both the supervention of suppuration and other changes may bring the patient to death's door.