URTICARIA 315 mechanism which regulates the cutaneous blood- vessels. In such cases the slightest irritation results in the formation of wheals. The stroke of the finger-nail down the back produces a linear wheal, and in a marked case raised white letters with erythematous borders may be written across the back in wheals by any pointed instrument (" dermographia"). The artificial wheals may only persist for a few minutes, or they may last for several hours. In patients suffering from this condition of the skin the wheal-formation may be demonstrated even when the patient is asleep or under a general anaesthetic. 4. Ui'ticaria Papulosa [Lichen Urticatus of Bateman).—The wheals in this type of urticaria are usually small. They are rarely white in colour, but present a pinkish tinge, and they are situated, as a rule, in the centre of an ery- thematous blotch. It is a disease of infancy and early childhood. In a severe case the child may be covered with the blotches in the evening. In the morning the majority of the wheals and blotches have disappeared, and have been re- placed by small papules about the size of hemp- seed. These papules are intensely itchy and are generally excoriated from scratching, and capped by a tiny crust. Scratch-marks, excoria- tions, and pustular lesions may all be present to mask the real nature of the eruption. Occa- sionally vesicles or buUse develop, these being chiefly found on the hands and feet. This singularly intractable type of urticaria is most common in infants, and is occasionally designated as " infantile urticaria." It forms one of the commonest diseases of infancy and early child- hood. It is generally the resiilt of the assimila- tion of some toxin from the alimentary canal. In most cases it is not associated with any general disturbance in the child's health, but there may be more or less chronic intestinal catarrh. lb is rare to find it in children over ten years of age. Certain observers maintain that it may develop into the prurigo of Hebra, but this assertion has not been satisfactorily proved, and the chief argument against it is the fact that prurigo is an exceptionally rare disease in this country, while lichen urticarius is one of the commonest of all the skin-diseases met with in any of the children's hospitals. But besides these four main types of urticaria several sub- varieties have been specially named on account of differences in the size, shape, and character of the wheals, and other purely secondary con- siderations. These sub-varieties do not require more than a passing reference. When the wheals form variously shaped figures the names of Urticaria figurata, U. annularis, and U. gyrata have been applied to them. When they are unusually large, forming deep-seated, brawny yellow or reddish tubercles, the condition has been termed U. tuberosa and U. gigans. When they occur in the lax tissue about the eyelids or genitals, and form oedematous swellings, they constitute U. cedematosa, a variety of which is the " acute circumscribed oedema " of Quincke. When the presence of wheals is associated with a definite rise in temperature the condition is known as U. febrilis. If the wheal is short- lived it has been christened U. evanida, in contra-distinction to wheals which persist for hours or days, U. perstans. When they recur in crops it is known as U. recurrens or U. inter- mittens ; and when vesicles, bullse, or hajmor- rhages form in the course of the eruption, it is known respectively as U. vesiculosa, bullosa, and hcemorrhagica. Etiology.—Urticaria in all its forms should be regarded rather as a symptom than as a dis- ease per se. The wheal is the result of a peculiar reaction on the part of the vaso-motor nerves of the skin to some irritant or toxin. This may act from without like the sting of a nettle, or from within by circulating in the blood and so reaching the skin, or reflexly through the higher nerve-centres, as the urticaria which occurs in certain individuals from intense emotional ex- citement. But in addition to the actual wheals which are formed, the skin in the neighbourhood of them is also rendered vulnerable, and slight rubbing brings out new lesions, showing that the irritant is either widely diffused, or that a reflex instability of the vaso-motor mechanism in the neighbourhood of the wheal is established. Idiosyncrasy also plays an important part in the etiology of urticaria. In no disease is the time-honoured axiom of " one man's food is another man's poison" more applicable, for certain articles of food which are usually harm- less will, in the smallest quantities, produce a profuse urticaria in susceptible individuals. Heredity and the neurotic temperament are also predisposing causes. These general observations serve to indicate the great diversity of causes which may be responsible for an attack of urticaria. In some cases it is difficult, if not impossible, to discover any definite cause, for the habit may have been set up at some remote period, and the most trivial causes may be capable of occasioning a fresh outbreak. It is customary and convenient to divide the causes of urticaria into two groups, namely, the direct or local causes and the indirect or reflex ones. I. Direct or Local Causes.—(1) Vegetable Irritants.—The common nettle {Urtica urens) and the variety known as Urtica dioica are capable of causing wheals in the most resistant skins. The handling of certain plants which, as a rule, set up an erythemato-vesicular derma- titis, may produce an urticaria; for example, the Primida obconica, the poison ivy, and the cowhage. (2) Animal Irritants.—The most common instance of animal irritants causing wheals are