195 TYPHOID FEVER epistaxis, and looseness of bowels with moist sounds audible in the bronchial tubes, a dicrotic pulse, and the smell of the breath. Some of these symptoms may be wanting. The tem- perature chart from the commencement of the disease may not be forthcoming, and even if it is available, the pyrexia may have begun suddenly, and may, contrary to what is custom- ary, have touched the normal on some of the early days. The bowels too may have been constipated, and epistaxis and headache may not have occurred. Under such circumstances the diagnosis dur- ing the first eight or ten days may be impossible, but continued fever without ascertainable local cause should always raise a suspicion of typhoid fever, especially if inquiry shows other cases to have occurred recently in the locality. The differential diagnosis fi'om the several conditions most simulating typhoid fever must be discussed seriatim. From Influenza.—Both diseases may begin with headache, pyrexia, and epistaxis. The suddenness of onset, the rapid ascent of tem- perature, the pain in the back, and the great prostration, usually suffice to distinguish in- fluenza from typhoid fever. But typhoid may begin as abruptly as a typical influenza, and influenza on the other hand may come on as gradually as a typical typhoid attack, with gradually ascending pyrexia, headache, furred tongue, disturbed bowels, and bronchial catarrh. In such cases the diagnosis rests upon the en- largement of spleen, the dici-otic character of the pulse, the roseolous eruption, and Widal's reaction in typhoid, but it is sometimes impos- sible to make the differential diagnosis on these grounds without waiting eight or ten days. The mere persistence of contirnied fever for many days makes typhoid more probable than influenza, but is not an absolute sign, for the pyrexia of the latter may last for weeks. Both typhoid and influenza may begin with symptoms of meningitis or encephalitis, and the differential diagnosis rests on the Widal reaction and the appearance of the cutaneous eruption. From Pneumonia.—The rigor, abrupt onset, great dyspnoea, rusty sputa, and the physical signs usually serve to distinguish pneumonia from typhoid, but pneumonia may come on gradually after a few days of " cold " or catarrh, and the physical signs may be late in develop- ing. The occurrence of herpes and the ultimate development of the physical signs of pneu- monia, and the Widal reaction in typhoid, will usually enable the diagnosis to be made in such cases. A more common difficulty is to decide whether an undoubted pneumonia is the primary disease or whether it is only a part of typhoid fever; the diagnosis of such cases is often impossible until some days have elapsed, when other symp- toms of typhoid fever may appear. In children especially, " creeping pneumonia " is apt to occur, successive patches of pneumonic consolidation occurring with long, protracted pyrexia ; this closely resembles a typhoid attack; the diagnosis from typhoid rests then on the course of the pyrexia, the physical signs, the absence of splenic enlargement or of a rash, and the Widal reaction. From Tuhercidar Disease.—Tubercular disease may begin in various ways according to the organs which it mainly affects: it may like typhoid be evidenced for the first few days mainly by pyrexia, with scarcely any sign of visceral lesion; or it may commence with signs of meningitis, closely resembling the onset of those cases known as meningo- or cerebro-typhoid; or commencing by pulmonary symptoms, it may resemble for a time those cases of typhoid com- mencing by pneumonia or by severe bronchial catarrh. Again, tubercular disease of the peritoneum may resemble typhoid fever; and data for the differential diagnosis between these various forms of tubercular disease and typhoid fever can only be derived by considering them in- dividually. Diagnosis between Typhoid and Acute Miliary Tuberculosis.—In both there may be much pyrexia, wasting, diarrhoea, bronchial catarrh, delirium, headache, and abdominal distention. Typhoid Fever 1. Step-like ascent of temperature with sub- sequent continued pyrexia. 2. Cutaneous eruption. 3. Splenic enlargement. 4. Stools characteristic and usually diar- rhoea. 5. No optic neuritis. 6. Rigors. 7. Prostration gradual. 8. Widal's test positive. 9. No signs of cranial nerve paralysis. 10. No tubercle bacilli in sputa. Miliary Tuberculosis 1. Rapid rise of temperature with irregular or regular intermissions or remissions. 2. No cutaneous eruption. 3. No splenic enlargement. 4. Stools not characteristic; often no diar- rhoea. 5. Optic neuritis common. 6. Rigors common. 7. Prostration much more than in typhoid. 8. Widal's test negative. 9. Often signs of cranial nerve paralysis. 10. Tubercle bacilli in sputa, if any.