310 URINE, BACTERIA IN Nephritis.—In infective processes associated nephritis may be due to the circulating toxines, and organisms may be absent from the kidney and the urine. In other cases the organisms of the primary disease or of some secondary in- fection may be present in the kidney and pass into the urine. In so-called primary nephritis, Mannaberg found streptococci, Letzerich bacilli, but their etiological connection with the disease is doubtful. Infective Diseases. —• Examination of the urine in infective diseases gives varying results. It is gradually becoming more and more evident that, even in diseases, e.g. typhoid, in which the morbid processes are more or less restricted to certain situations, the organisms must at some time or other circulate in the blood - stream. In certain pyogenic infections, e.g. acute osteo- myelitis, the condition is often complicated by a true septicaemia, and the organisms are con- stantly in the blood in greater or less numbers. On the other hand, in tetanus the organisms have never been found except locally. The oftener oi-ganisms find their way into the blood- stream the greater will be the frequency of their appearance in the iirine. Unfortunately their presence there is no indication of a specific nephritis, for, as we have seen, the organisms may be absent from the kidney after death when they have been discovered in the urine during life; nor does it necessarily imply a severe blood infection, in other words, a true septicEemia, for a few stray organisms may escape by the kidney. It is, however, safe to say that in any given disease, for obvious reasons, an infection of the urine is more likely to occur in severe than in mild cases. In addition it must be remembered that any lowered resistance of the body favours the penetration into the blood-stream of organisms commonly living as saprophytes on the mucous surfaces of the body. Organisms found circu- lating in the blood are therefore not necessarily those of the specific disease. This is true also as regards the urine. If, therefore, the organ- isms found in the urine belong to the class which commonly lives on the mucous or even skin surfaces of the body saprophytically, the conclusions drawn from their presence must be very guarded. This objection does not weigh against those organisms which are only found in the body in diseased conditions. The specific organisms of the disease have been found frequently in the urine in pneumonia and other pneumococcal infections, in malignant endocarditis, erysipelas, puerperal septicaemia, and many other pyogenic infections in plague, glanders, and typhoid fever. The significance to be attached to their discovery may be gathered from the immediately preceding sentences. The identification of these organisms can only be arrived at by cultural experiment. Their presence in the urine indicates the need for its disinfection. This is more especially so in the case of typhoid fever. Typhoid Fever.—Of all general diseases of microbic origin typhoid fever is the one in which the specific organisms are most often present in the urine. GafFky, who may be called one of the dis- coverers of the typhoid bacillus, found it in the kidney in 3 cases out of 7. It has been since found by many observers in many cases. It is not, however, so frequently recovered culturally from that organ as from the spleen and ab- dominal lymphatic glands, partly, no doubt, owing to its being present in smaller numbers, but partly also owing to the kidney being less succulent, and so presenting less favourable material for cultivations as commonly carried out. Seitz was the first to describe its occurrence in the urine, and his results were soon confirmed by KonjajefF, Neumann, Karlinski, and others. These earlier cases are, of course, open to the objection that affects all the early attempts at the identification of the typhoid bacillus, viz. the absence of sufficient data for distinguishing it from the bacillus coli. Horton Smith, Petruschky, and Richardson were the first to apply the serum agglutination test to the organisms they obtained, and so to prove as absolutely as we are able their specific nature. Typhoid bacilli have been found in the iirine by different observers in a varying proportion of the cases examined. Neumann found them in 11 cases out of 48 cases examined—8 times in countless numbers. In 2 other cases he found the streptococcus pyogenes in pure culture. Horton Smith found them in 17 cases out of 45; Richardson in 23 out of 103. Other observers have found them in varying propor- tion, from under 10 up to 100 per cent of the cases examined. It is now generally held that in any large series taken consecutively without selection, they are to be found in about 25 per cent of the cases. In a large proportion of such positive cases, as pointed out first by Neumann, they are present in very large numbers, making the urine as freshly passed quite turbid, and on shaking the urine, if it be in a glass vessel, it presents a peculiar shimmering appearance which is very suggestive. As a good deal of stress has been laid on this point by many writers, it may be pointed out that the same appearances can be seen in bacteriuria caused by other organisms, so that its significance is very limited. In other cases the bacteria are relatively scanty in number—a fact which suggests that in some of the " negative " cases they may have escaped detection owing to this circumstance. Wright and Semple, who in-