562 WRY-NECK OR TORTICOLLIS tion of the sterno-mastoid, which, however, is more likely to occur in a youngish woman. Treatment. — As regards the treatment of spasmodic wry-neck all drugs, inclusive of arsenic and strychnia, are disappointing, and electricity has not been found of service. Un- fortunately, time, the great healer, passes these cases by, and nothing remains but for the sur- geon to resect a portion of the spinal accessory nerve. Possibly he may also have to take away branches of the cervical nerves entering the muscle in order to ensure complete relief. For resection of the spinal accessory nerve a three-inch incision is made from the tip of the mastoid process down the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. The edge of the muscle is lifted well up, and the posterior belly of the digastric muscle exposed; the nerve then is seen passing from beneath it into the deep aspect of the sterno-mastoid. It may be neces- sary to slacken the muscle and turn it well out in order to expose the nerve, which is, however, a large and conspicuous trunk. On pinching it in the forceps spasmodic contractions of the sterno-mastoid and trapezius result, and reveal its identity beyond a doubt. On the first occasion of the spinal accessory nerve being resected for the relief of spasmodic wry-neck, the surgeon (de Morgan) sought for it at the postei'ior border of the sterno-mastoid, and, following it upwards and forwards through the muscle, divided it above the point of entrance, which is on a level with the angle of the lower jaw. The usual operation now, however, is to seek the nerve at its entrance into the muscle. There is no great difficulty in the operation if the surgeon makes a long incision, beginning it as high as possible, and lifting the muscle well up. Excision of the posterior branches of the cervical nerves is rarely called for in the treat- ment of spasmodic wry-neck, and it should not be undertaken unless it is certain that the spinal accessory nerve has undoubtedly been resected, and that that measure has proved insufficient. Wunderlich'S Law.—The tempera- ture curve in typhoid fever with its ascending oscillations (morning and evening). Wutzer's Operation.—A radical operation which used to be employed in cases of inguinal hernia, the scrotum being invaginated as far as the internal inguinal ring by means of a hollow cylinder of wood carrying a concealed needle, by which the various parts are trans- fixed. Wutz'S Valve. See Urachus {Valve Preventing Passage of Urine from Bladder into Urachus). Xanthelasma. See Xanthoma. Xanthin. See LEUCOCYTHiEMiA {Symp- toms, Urine); Liver, Physiology of {Supply of Proteids, Dioxypurin); Physiology, Excretion {Urine, Nitrogenous Substances); Uric Acid {Chemical Characters, Dioxypurin); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Nitrogenoiis Con- stituents, Xanthin Bases); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Calculi). Xanthinuria.—The presence of an ex- cessive quantity of xanthin in the urine. XanthO-.—in compound words xantho- (Gr.^av^os, yellow) means yellow; e.g. the xantho- chroi (fair or yellow-haired races), xanthochromia (a yellow discoloration of the skin), xanthopathy (any skin disease characterised by a yellow dis- coloration). Xanthocreatinine or Xantho- kreatinin. — A leucomaine or poisonous alkaloid (C^^Hj^N^O), in the form of yellow crystals, found in muscle. Xanthocyanopia or Xantho- Cyanopsia. — Red-green blindness. See Colour Vision {Congenital, Partial). Xanthodermia. See Xanthoma. Xanthoma. See also Diabetes Mellitus {Symptoms, Skin) ; Tumours of the Skin {Xan- thoma Palpeb7-arum). (Syn. : Xanthelasma, Vitiligoidea.)—Definition.—A fibro-fatty neo- plasm forming yellow plates or nodules in the corium (Crocker). Two forms of the disease are recognised—Xanthoma planum and Xanthoma multiplex. Xanthoma Planum.—Thisis the more common form of this rare affection. It is characterised by the occurrence of small, flat pin-head and finger-nail size plaques, which vary in colour from a pale yellow to a much darker shade. They are circumscribed in character, are situ- ated in the corium, and are very little if at all raised above the surface; the usual site is the eyelids, more especially near the inner canthus, from which they may spread to involve the surrounding skin. With a lens the patches may often be seen to consist of an aggregation of small yellow granules, which usually have a central pinkish puncture. There are little or no subjective symptoms. Xanthoma multiplex {Xanthoma tuberosum) is a more rare and also a much more serious affection. The most characteristic sites are on the extremities, especially on the parts subjected to pressure. The nodules vary in size from a hemp seed to a pea, but by fusion they may form a swelling as large as an orange. Occa- sionally the mucous surfaces of the mouth, of the respiratory and gastro-intestinal tracts, are involved, as also the surfaces of the peritoneum,