571 X-RAYS applied by the jury was the one sent in as Cox's Record tube, made by C. H. F. Mueller of Hamburg {Archives of the Rontgen Ray, August 1901). The only fault the writer has to find with these tubes is that the resistance seems to increase rather rapidly. The only satisfactory way of reducing the resistance of a tube is to lower the vacuum, and if the tube is not provided with a means for letting in more air it should be returned to the maker, who will first allow it to refill with air and then re- exhaust it. A strictly temporary method of lowering the resistance of a tube is to heat it FlQ. 13.—Rontgen ray tube with arrangement for altering the vacuum. Hirschmann. with a large spirit flame; the flame should be passed boldly and rapidly all over the tube ; this remedy only serves to aggravate the existing disease, for though effectual for the moment the resistance will be found afterwards to be higher than ever; other methods sug- gested for lowering the resistance are not satisfactory. Tube-holders, fluorescent screens, and photo- graphic plates are also required. Convenient tube-holders are supplied by Schall (Fig. 15); a table tube-holder should be about 14 inches in height and its arm about 2 feet in length. One of the best makers of fluorescent screens is Johnson and Matthey of Hatton Garden, London; a convenient size is 14x16 inches. The screen is coated with barium platino- FlG. 14 —Rontgen ray tube with movable cathode. Dawson Turner. cyanide on one side and with black paper on the other; the coated side should be protected by a glass or celluloid cover. Any good make of photographic plate will suffice; some of those the author has used are those sup- plied by Lumiere, Edward's Cathodal, Paget, Imperial, and Ilford, and Wrotten and Wain- wright. It is important to stick to the same plate and developer. The plates should be fresh and be coated with a thick film. The author (see Electrician, February 1897) has not found any advantage result from using very rapid plates ; though a shorter ex- posure may suffice, the result- ing picture is not so good. To protect the plates from light they should be enclosed in light-tight envelopes, or in a specially made case, and the object to be photographed should be placed in close con- tact with the envelope, with the anode of the tube directly above the centre of the object and twelve or more inches away. The film side of the negative should be uppermost. After the exposure, which may vary from a few seconds for the hand to four or five minutes for the pelvis and hip-joint, the plates are developed in the ordinary way. Hydroquinone is to be preferred to pyrogallic acid, because it produces hard negatives, and a slow development is reconunended ; in fact it is customary on the Continent to dilute the developer some thirty times with water, and to put the plate aside in a box for some three- quarters of an hour or more, and if the nega- tive be still too thin to add a little normal strength developer. The satisfactory de- velopment of Rontgen ray negatives requires fio. is.-Tube-hoider for tube, a great deal of care and considerable experience, and this is particu- larly the case in the skiagraphy of obscure bone diseases and of the thorax and abdomen. The Rontgen Rays in Diagnosis and Treatment The marvellous power of the Rontgen rays of penetrating our tissues, and of rendering them, so to speak, transparent, led obviously to their application in surgical and medical diagnosis ;