VISCERAL PAIN 468 pain, or gentle pressure over the abdomen in peritonitis is felt as pain by the patient. This is too often supposed to be conclusive evidence of the tenderness of the visceral structures. This is, however, not evidence that the viscera are tender ; the pain, as a matter of fact, being evoked by the stimulation of the hypersensitive external body wall covering the diseased organs. Numerous instances occur scattered through medical literature where it has been observed that organs exposed in the human subject have shown no signs of sensation when stimu- lated. For many years I have taken every opportunity afforded me to test the sensibility of the viscera when the organs have been ex- posed thi'ough accidents or operative procedures. In the case of the heart and lungs the observa- tions have been conducted on patients from whom a piece of rib has been removed for the relief of an empyema. The visceral layer of the pleura has never shown any sensation when pinched or pricked. The parietal layer has been equally insensitive, but when hard pressure has been made a sensation of pressure has been felt, evidently becaiise the structures of the external chest wall were being pressed upon. In a few cases I have been able to reach the peri- cardium and exercise pressure against the heart. In no case has any sensation resulted. In numerous cases I have been able to test the insensibility of the bowel. In one unique case I had an excellent opportimity of demon- strating this insensibility. The patient, a man aged fifty-six, had suffered from an umbilical hernia for many years. He had attempted to keep it back by tightly applied bandages. Ulceration of the skin followed, and this ex- tended so deep at one place that the wall of the bowel (being adherent to the parietal peri- toneum) was ulcerated through, and a fistula established. When I saw him, in consultation, I found in addition that an area of skin about three inches in diameter around the fistula was completely gone. It was resolved to attempt to suture the gut. The area denuded of skin being nearly insensitive, and as the patient ob- jected to chloroform, we made the incision into the abdomen through the denuded surface. When the contents of the abdomen were ex- posed a portion of the bowel was drawn out, old and recent adhesions were broken down, a piece of the ulcerated bowel and underlying mesentery were removed, and the cut ends of the bowel sutured. All this was done while the patient was conscious and intelligent, and repeated inquiries during the operation elicited the statement that he felt no pain. Oppor- tunity was also taken to demonstrate the in- sensitiveness of the liver. But there were times when he groaned and complained of pain. This occurred whenever the upper end of the cut bowel (small intestine) passed into peristalsis. This portion of the bowel was treated first and laid to one side of the abdomen. At varying intervals it would change from a large flaccid tube to a narrow fleshy rod. Whenever this occurred he groaned. Asked where the pain was felt, he passed his hand over the umbilical region, although the contracting piece of bowel was at least twelve inches away. IV. Nature of the Pain evoked by Stimula- tion OF THE Viscera.—Although no evidence of sensation is discoverable by direct stimulation, yet in some instances pain can be evoked when the stimulation is adequate. In the above instance pain was seen to occur when the non- striped muscular fibres contracted vigorously, but the pain evoked was not felt in the con- tracted bowel, but was referred to the region of the umbilicus. As I shall show later, this is the region to which the pain of the small intestine is usually referred. An adequate stimulus can be employed by causing non-striped muscles to contract, as by giving a distending enema and so stimulating the lower end of the great bowel to violent spasm. The pain then is always referred to the front of the abdomen below the umbilicus, and is not situated in the bowel itself. A pain in the middle of the fore- head in many people is evoked on swallowing a piece of ice; the stimulation arising in the oesophagus, passing probably by the vagus, and stimulating a portion of the fifth cranial nerve. One occasionally meets with other instances where the stimulus is adequate. Thus, Mr. Caird tells us that once, when incising the peri- toneum above the pubis in a conscious patient, severe pain was felt but was referred to the point of the penis. Pain of a referred character can sometimes be roused by exercising pressure on a glandular organ. It is difiBcult to differentiate between a pain actually due to an affected organ and the stimulation of the sensory nerve in its protective covering. It is for this reason that clinical ob- servations are apt to be misleading. It may, however, be stated broadly that the sensibility of an organ or tissue to direct pain depends upon the amount of nerve supply from the cerebro-spinal system. So far as I am aware, apart from the vagus and phrenic nerves, no such supply has been traced to the abdominal or thoracic viscera. I have in several instances carefully dissected intercostal and abdominal nerves from their origin in the spinal cord to their peripheral distribution, but could detect no twig entering the pleura or peritoneum. The demonstration of the truth of these assertions (the referred pain due to the stimula- tion of the parenchyma of an organ, and the direct pain due to the stimulation of the sensory covering of an organ) can best be shown in the study of the sensory relationship of the testicle. V. The Sensory Supply of the Testicle. —For a long time I was hampered in the enunciation of the view that all pains arising