WRIST-JOINT DISEASES 554 Tenderness will be found early over the posterior and outer aspect; while grasping the fingers and forearm, and pressing the bones of the wrist together—care being taken neither to flex nor extend the joint—may elicit pain and indi- cate a correct diagnosis at an early stage of the disease. Grasping each finger in turn, too, and pressing it and its metacarpal upwards, so as to " crowd" the corresponding carpal bones, may give some indication of the position of the diseased areas. Lateral mobility is a very important symp- tom. It is due to softening of the ligaments by the disease, and is quite an early symptom. It is made evident by grasping the forearm and the hand v/hile they are in a straight line, and moving the hand laterally. The symptom is virtually pathognomonic of carpal tuberculosis. As the disease progresses the joint becomes so insecure that the patient supports the fingers with the other hand. Abscesses may form, the resulting sinuses opening more frequently on the dorsal than on the palmar surface. Cause and Pathological Anatomy {see Joints). —Invasion by the tubercle bacillus is often determined by some minor trauma, such as a sprain or over-exertion. Owing to the number and small size of the bones in the joint it is difficult to decide whether the disease com- mences more frequently in the bone or synovial membrane, but probably most cases are prim- arily synovial. Tillmanns holds the opposite view. Primary osseous deposits are foimd in the end of the radius, and occasionally in the second and third metacarpal bones. Sometimes the joint is invaded from a tubercular teno- synovitis of the neighbouring tendons. The ligaments are early invaded and softened. Diagnosis.—The disease is to be distinguished from tubercular teno-synovitis and from arthritis deformans. In teno-synovitis there is indeed a chronic bossy swelling, but pain is conspicuous by its absence, and the movements of the wrist and of the fingers continue entirely, or almost entirely free. In arthritis deformans the atrophy of the forearm is not comparable with that in tuberculosis, and later all mobility is absent. Treatment.—The means of treatment at our disposal are immobilisation by a splint. Bier's congestive bandage, iodoform injections, and operative procedures. {a) Immobilisation by a Splint.—In this con- nection three things must be remembered:— Firstly, that stiff"ness in the fingers is apt to be produced by adhesions forming round the tendons passing over the joint. Secondly, that in a normal hand the grasp of the fingers is weakened if they and the wrist are in the same line with the forearm,—to get the full power the wrist must be partly extended ; therefore a wrist anchylosed in a straight line or in flexion will have the use of the fingers impaired, even though the tendons may be quite free. Thirdly, the thumb must not be allowed to become stiff, applied to the hand, where it will be useless, but nuist be free to drop. Lister's well-known splint is the best for the purpose. It reaches from the elbow to the heads of the metacarpals, has a pillow of cork fixed at the lower end, and is of a breadth only to support the metacarpals of the fingers. It is applied to the palmar surface, the cork pillow bends back the wrist while the fingers are left free for movement. The thumb drops over the side of the splint, which should be provided with a small support on its under surface, so that the thumb may hang free when the arm is laid down, as, e.g., during the night. To prevent it slipping round this splint should have a vertical piece of wood on one or both sides near the elbow. Rest maintained in this way ■ may alone suffice to produce an absolute cure; but the splint must be worn for months. {b) Bier's Congestive Bandage.—If improve- ment is not marked under treatment by a splint, the congestive bandage and injection of iodoform may be added. If needful the fingers and hand may be bandaged in the ordinary way, the wrist is left uncovered, and immediately above it the forearm is bandaged tightly with elastic webbing applied over a protecting layer of lint, so as to produce considerable venous congestion. The fingers should be watched to ascertain that the bandage is not too tight. It may be taken off for six hours each day, or may be left on continuously for weeks. I have seen remark- ably good results following this treatment in disease of the wrist and ankle. The splint may be used at the same time. (c) Injection of Iodoform.—After the con- gestive bandage has been used for some four weeks it may be discontinued and injection of iodoform begun. As the carpal bones are usu- ally much softened they can be penetrated without difficulty. A strong, narrow syringe filled with a 10 per cent emulsion of iodoform in glycerine should be entered on the ulnar side below the styloid process, pushed across to the radial side, and then gradually withdrawn while the injection is made. The injection is thus parenchymatous as well as intra-articular (Senn). When the injections are repeated every ten days to three weeks, they may be made on the dorsal aspect at suitable points ; Bier's bandage may be reapplied a day or two after the injection. This treatment has been very successful. (d) Operative Procedure.— It should be dis- tinctly understood that tuberculosis of the wrist joint is peculiarly amenable to treatment by immobilisation, and that the surgeon who is dealing with an early case may confidently look for gratifying results from the patient use of a splint alone, or that aided by the congestive bandage and injection of iodoform. Few cases, then, should require operation.