UTEEUS, NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS. OF THE 358 and contained in the pelvic cavity it may be confounded with— (a) Early normal pregnancy, (i) Molar preg- nancy, (c) Extra-uterine pregnancy. (d) Threatened or incomplete abortion, (e) Sub- involution after parturition. (/) Retroverted uterus, gravid or not gravid, {g) Retroflected uterus, gravid or not gravid, (h) Prolapsed, enlarged, or adherent ovaries and tubes. (^) Small cyst, deep in broad ligament. (_;) In- verted uterus (mistaken for polypoid fibroid). (k) Uterus infected with echinococcus. (l) Malignant disease of the body of the viterus. 2. When the tumour is wholly or in part abdominal it may be confounded with— (a) Pregnancy, from end of fourth month to term. (6) Extra-uterine abdominal pregnancy, (c) Ovarian tumours, cystic and solid, (d) Broad ligament tumours. (e) Hsematocele. (/) Perimetritis and parametritis, (g) Splenic, hepatic, and renal tumours, (h) Retro-perito- neal growths (chiefly sarcomata and lipomata). (i) Distended bladder. (_;') Sarcomata of uterus. (k) Hydatid cysts, (l) Tumours formed by intestines and omentum matted together, usually by tviberculous disease. Some of the above conditions admit of the very easiest elimination, others can be diagnosed with ordinary care, but others may defy the most painstaking examination and the closest reasoning. In all cases where the diagnosis lies between a uterine pregnancy (the foetus being alive) and a fibroid, time is an important factor; the question will be settled by the rate of growth and by the gradual development of the " certain signs of pregnancy." Discharge of blood, inter- mittent or persistent, during the early months may cause doubt, but either the case ends in miscarriage, or the steady growth in due relation to time, the detection of the foetal heart sounds and movements, the procuring of ballottement, and the alternate contraction and relaxation of the tumour will shortly settle the question. On the other hand, araenorrhcea, instead of haemorrhage, may accompany the existence of a fibroid, but its slower growth and the absence of the certain signs of pregnancy will afford grounds for a correct diagnosis. The difiiculty is greater when the embryo has perished and is retained in utero; but where there are no signs of life we may, after judicious delay, dilate the cervix and explore the uterus luider anaesthesia. The maximum difficulty in the differential diagnosis of fibroids and pregnancy is when they coexist. Here, again, time is the great eluci- dator, for owing to the usually accelerated in- crease in size of fibroids during pregnancy the uterus will soon be larger than is normal for the supposed time of gestation, and careful palpation will probably reveal one large boss or several bosses that are manifestly not parts of the foetus. In molar pregnancy, in abortion, and in sub- involution, where any doubt as to the accuracy of the diagnosis exists, the dilatation and ex- ploration which are indicated as treatment will also reveal the true condition; which, however, would not be of immediate importance unless hsemorrhage or some other urgent symptom were present. Swellings in Douglas' pouch may call for immediate recognition and treatment, as in the case of extra-uterine pregnancy ; of retroverted or retroflexed uterus, especially if gravid ; of prolapsed and enlarged ovaries and tubes; of an incarcerated fibroid. The history of the incarcerated fibroid would probably be longer than that of the various conditions of pregnancy. It would usually include attacks of hsemorrhage, while it would not be accompanied by mammary signs. The detection of the position of the uterus and the direction of its canal would be evidence for or against the tumour being the uterus itself, a fibroid, or some disease or dis- placement of the adnexa. The investigation may not be entirely free from risk, but non- recognition and consequent inadequate treat- ment of some of these confusing conditions may lead to a fatal result. A fibroid polypus has been mistaken for a chronically inverted uterus. The diagnosis may be made on bimanual, or combined rectal and vesical, examination; the body of the uterus being thus detected in its normal position apart from the procident mass. The sound can be passed into the cavity of the uterus and all round the stalk of the polypus, unless the body of the polypus be adherent to the uterus, which is not common. Lastly, the polypus is com- paratively or quite insensitive, which is not the case with the inverted uterus. A prolapsed xiterus is recognised at once by the position of the os uteri, into which the sound or a probe may be passed. The uterus infested by echinococci presents some resemblance to the fibroid-bearing uterus, especially while the cysts are covered with uterine muscle and protrude as rounded bosses into the uterine cavity. The history and symp- toms would probably help little, and the diag- nosis would rest chiefly on the extrusion of one or more cysts and on the nature of the discharge should they burst in situ. A cyst, whether parovarian or parasitic, deeply situated between the layers of the broad liga- ment, may be so immovable and so tense as to greatly resemble a fibroid growing in the same position. In neither case is hsemorrhage a symptom unless other diseases, such as uterine fibroids or endometritis, coexist. In both con- ditions pain and pressure symptoms may be present, and generally the I'ecognition of a "tumour in the broad ligament" has to be the provisional diagnosis until growth, or the super- vention of serious symptoms, at once proclaims