UTERUS, NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE 350 Syniiitoim. — (a) Symptoms may be due to the tumour itself. These seldom arise so long- as its tissues are in good health. (h) The commonest symptoms are due to alterations in the uterus and other organs caused by the tumours, and to secondary changes produced in them. Haemorrhage.—The commonest symptom of both hard and soft fibroids is hfemorrhage. It occurs both as menorrhagia and metrorrhagia, and varies from a slight increase in quantity or frequency of the normal loss to dangerous floodings. The hccmorrhage proceeds from the mucous membrane of the uterus, and may be due to its abnormally increased area, to the supervention of endometritis, or to the coexist- ence of fibroid or mucous polypi. The hfemor- rhage is most abundant when the tumour is immediately beneath the mucous membrane, and may be slight, or even absent, when the growth is entirely subserous. So long as the tumour remains in the uterus the hsemorrhage usually observes the monthly rhythm and may be called menorrhagia. Should the tumour be extruded into the vagina, the htemorrhage, whether slight or profuse, tends to be remittent or continuous and is a metrorrhagia. Hjemor- rhage sometimes, but rarely, proceeds from the capsule of the tumour, as in cases of submucous fibroids, where the mucous membrane has been perforated by the growth, so that the tumour presents at the os uteri. In a case recorded by Matthews Duncan the capsule of the tumour had calcified; subsequently this shell cracked, and wounded a large sinus, producing an im- mediately fatal heemorrhage. The amount of hsemorrhage varies greatly in different cases, some patients with a large tumour losing little, while others in whom the growth is small suffer absolute floodings. The character of the growth does not explain these variations, as they occur alike in uninodular, multinodular, and multiple fibroids. Certainly the approach of the growth to the mucous membrane appears to be accompanied by in creased lifemorrhage, while the symptom is usually less formidable, and may even be absent, when the tumours are subperitoneal only. Pain is not so common a symptom in fibroids as in haemorrhage, and when present is often associated with some morbid change in the tumour, or with injurious effects produced by it on other organs. It is usually described as a dull grinding pain, sometimes as a sense of over-fulness or twisting, and sometimes as colicky or paroxysmal. This intermittent rhythmical pain is most frequent when the tumour is pressing on, or through, the cervix. It is natural that it should thus simulate the pains of the first stage of labour. Pain may be due to the following causes :— 1. The involuntary extrusive efforts of the uterus by which an intramural growth is forced towards the mucous or the serous surface. 2. The dilatation and stretching of the cervix uteri during the extrusion of a fibrous polypus. 3. The incarceration of a fibroid uterus, or of a pedunculated subserous fibroid, in the bony pelvis, causing pressure on adjacent organs and nerves. 4. Interference of the growth, or its pedicle, with other pelvic or abdominal organs by which morbid changes are caused in them. 5. The sense of weight and bearing down usually present is aggravated into pain during the catamenia. This is most marked in the case of submucous growths, and is then probably due to exaggeration of the normal congestion. The same symptoms may occur even when the growth is subserous, and is then explained by the fact that the swelling due to normal increase of vascularity is hindered by the tension of the capsule. Any marked increase of pain—or its appear- ance as a new symptom—demands careful in- vestigation, as it is frequently the first warning of degenerative changes occurring in the tumour (see " Indications for Operation," p. 354). Discharge of a watery or mucoid nature, not blood-stained and not offensive, is a common symptom. It is due to concurrent congestion of the general mucosa of the uterus, or some- times to over-stimulation of the cervical glands. Purulent, blood-stained, and offensive discharges are usual in sloughing, inflammatory, sarco- matous, and other destructive degenerations, also when there are certain complicating or coexisting diseases, such as purulent endo- metritis or epithelioma. Bladder symptoms, especially incontinence or retention of urine, are common in cases of fibroid growths. Cystitis is not common. These symp- toms are due to pressure. Retention generally results from pressure of an intra-pelvic mass on the urethra, while incontinence is more commonly caused by pressure of an intra- abdominal growth on the bladder. ^ Rectal symptoms of fibroids (which are much less common than bladder symptoms) are also due to pressure. Constipation may exist from direct pressure of a growth when intra-pelvic, or from increase of general abdominal pressure in the case of large tumours. Haemorrhoids are caused by pressure on the veins of the rectum. The patient may also complain of tenesmus and of mucoid discharge from the bowel. Variations in size may be very slow, as in the majority of the hard fibromata, or relatively rapid, as in the softer variety. Sudden increase 1 Hydro-ureter, hydro-nephrosis, pyo-neplirosis, and other destructive changes in the kidneys are less common in cases of fibroids than in cases of cancer uteri. They do, however, occur, and generally in cases in which the broad ligaments are invaded by the growths.