URINE, PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN 296 It is of great importance to exclude accidental contamination caused by the use of an oiled catheter, or the addition of milk or oil to the urine after it has been passed. Cases in which the fat is abundantly present will only repay further investigation after the exclusion of such causes. Normal human urine contains no fat, but it has been found under conditions which may fairly be regarded as physiological, as, for ex- ample, during pregnancy, and also after the administration of oils, such as castor-, cod-liver- or olive-oil, for medicinal purposes. In diabetes mellitus the abundant presence of fat in the blood, which is a common phenomenon, may be accompanied by lipuria, and a like result may follow from a like cause in other diseases, attended by conspicuous wasting, such as phthisis pulmonalis. In acute yellow atrophy of the liver also, and in phosphorus-poisoning, fat may find its way into the urine. Of special interest is the lipuria which some- times follows fractures, especially of long bones, and which is attributed to the entrance of medul- lary fat into the circulation. It may be met with after the operation of osteotomy, as well as after accidental fractures, and such lipuria is temporary and may be intermittent. In chronic parenchymatous nephritis fattily degenerated epithelial cells and fatty casts are often found, and their presence indicates a marked degree of degeneration of the renal epithelium. Simple fatty degeneration of the kidneys may also be attended by fat in the urine, and among other diseases of the urinary tract which may give rise to lipuria pyelitis, abscesses rupturing into the urinary passages, and malignant growths may be mentioned. Chyluria.—-In chyluria the urine has the appearance of milk, but may have a pink tint from admixture of blood, or may deposit a scanty red sediment of blood corpuscles. The opacity is due to the presence of fat, which may be removed by shaking with ether, when the urine is left clear. The suspended fat is in the finest possible state of division, and the microscopic appearances are best imitated by adding con- densed rather than fresh milk to the urine. Albumin is present as well as fat, albumoses have also been found in chylous urine, and in some cases sufficient fibrin is present to form coagula, or to cause the solidification of the whole into a mass like Manc-mange, which, after a time, again liquefies. Occasionally such coagulation occurs in the bladder with distress- ing results. The microscope shows red corpuscles and leucocytes, but the absence of renal elements points to the absence of any serious implication of the kidneys. The essential caiise of chyluria appears to be the direct opening of a lymphatic channel into some part of the urinary passages, an explanation which best accords with the very intermittent character of the phenomenon, for, in the course of a single day chylous urine may be passed at one time and normal at another. In the great majority of instances the cause of chyluria is the Jilaria sanguinis hominis, the mechanism being the obstruction of a lymph channel by the parent worm or by the ova, the distension of the vessel behind the obstruction and its rupture into the urinary passages, with a resultant intermittent flow of chyle into the urine. However, there appear to be some cases which are definitely not of this nature, and in which the admixture of chyle is due to some other cause than the filaria. Cholesterin in Urine.—This will be the most convenient place to consider the occurrence of cholesterin in the urine. Its presence indicates disease of the urinary apparatus, and there is no satisfactory evidence that it is excreted by the kidneys as a product of metabolism. The traces found in cases of fatty kidney may be attributed to the fatty casts and debris which the urine contains, and in which the cholesterin is probably held in solution in the fat. In the rare cases in which it forms a crystal- line urinary sediment, it is derived from de- generated urinary epithelium, or the rupture into the urinary passages of cysts containing cholesterin. Thus it may appear in cases of hydronephrosis, of congenital cystic disease of the kidneys, and in connection with chronic cystitis and fatty degeneration in the bladder walls. Calculi containing cholesterin have been met with. In some instances they have obviously been faceted gall-stones, which have found their way along fistulous channels, but such an explanation will not apply in all instances {see section " Urinary Calculi," p. 304). XIII. Pigments The yellow colour of normal urine is entirely or almost entirely due to urochrome, but although there is good reason to believe that, apart from the effects of dilution and concentra- tion, the excretion of this pigment is subject to marked variations, such variations do not as yet come within the scope of clinical medicine. This is largely due to the facts that urochrome yields no characteristic spectrum, and that we have not as yet any means of estimating its amount. It will here suffice to say that this pigment is in all probability derived from htemoglobin, and that its formation is apparently independent of any processes which go on in the alimentary canal. Urobilin, unlike urochrome, yields a very conspicuous absorption band which allows of its ready detection in urine, and it is not difficult to estimate, at least roughly, the amount which is present in any given specimen. It is largely excreted in the form of an unstable chromogen