MEDICAL SECTION 7 THYROID GLAND, thalmic goitre. Experimental removal of the parathyroids alone in animals has been followed by acute nervous symptoms, such as muscular tremors, clonic and tetanic contractions of voluntary muscles, loss of power, and emacia- tion. So that there is good evidence to show that they have some important function, and that further investigation will throw more light on their function in man. Myxcedema Etiology.—Sex.—Myxoedema is much more common in women than in men, as it occurs almost seven times as frequently in the former as in the latter. Age. — Myxoedema rarely develops before twenty, after that it becomes more frequent each succeeding five years up to the age of forty-five, after which it gradually becomes less frequent. Thus in about one-third of all the cases the onset is between thirty-five and forty- five. Locality.—Cases of myxoedema occur most frequently in temperate climates, and are rare in the tropics. They appear to be more common in Great Britain, especially in the north of England and south of Scotland, than in other European countries. The disease is well known in America and in Australia, but the coloured races are apparently exempt from it. Heredity. — A certain predisposition to thy- roidal disease occurs in some families, so that myxoedema may occur in one member, while some other form of thyroidal disease occurs in another. In some families a mother and daughter, two sisters, or a brother and sister have suffered from myxoedema. Antecedents.—In a certain number of cases myxoedema has been preceded by exophthalmic goitre, and it is evident that recovery from the latter predisposes a patient to the development of the former. This can be easily understood if we remember that the development of fibrosis and atrophy of the enlarged gland, which is a natural method of recovery in exophthalmic goitre, will, if it progresses too far, of necessity lead to the development of myxoedema. Excessive child-bearing appears to be another predisposing cause, for we find that the majority of cases are in women who have borne children. Of the actual exciting cause of the thyroidal fibrosis, in the great majority of cases we know nothing. In one recorded case, syphilis, and in another, actinomycosis of the thyroid gland caused the myxoedema. Symptoms.—Onset.—The symptoms of myxoe- dema develop slowly, and months may elapse from the commencement of ill-health before they become well defined. The length of the period of development depends upon the progress made by the atrophic cirrhosis of the thyroid gland, which is usually very gradual. In a few cases, especially in young adults, the symptoms have developed more rapidly, so that the nature of the disease was recognisable a few weeks, or even days, after the onset. At the commencement a feeling of lassitude is often experienced, which gradually increases till even slight exertion becomes toilsome. This may be struggled against for a time, but sooner or later the patient is compelled to abandon active pursuits and lead a more or less sedentary existence. A feeling of chilliness on cold days is complained of at an early stage, which in- creases till there is a continued feeling of cold- ness, except in hot weather or when the temperature of the room is high. The temper- ature, which in the early stages may still be normal, later on falls one or two degrees lower. The subcutaneous tissues gradually become distended by the myxoedematous swelling, which entails considerable alteration in the appearance of the face. At the first there is only an in- creased fulness and rounding of the features, which is most conspicuous round the eyelids and beneath the chin. The centre of each cheek is often flushed, though the skin of the rest of the face, in many cases, gradually be- becomes yellowish in colour. The lips are slightly thickened and the forehead transversely wrinkled. Careful examination will reveal the presence of a solid elastic oedema in the sub- cutaneous tissue in other parts of the body, notably above the clavicles, on the back of the hand and on the dorsum of the foot. Perspira- tion is diminished, so that the skin gradually becomes dry and wrinkled. The skin over the extensor aspect of the knees and elbows is specially liable to be rough and dry, even at an early stage. Subjective nervous symptoms may be present; thus both visual and auditory hallucinations may occur at a time when objec- tive symptoms of the disease are only slightly developed. Cutaneous System.—One of the most striking features of a fully developed case of myxcedema is the condition of the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Wherever the skin is loose, owing to the laxity of the subcutaneous tissues, the latter becomes distended by the characteristic solid oedema. Thus the face is full and rounded, and the eyelids are distended as if with the watery oedema of Bright's disease. The supra- clavicular fossa, the back of the hand, and the dorsum of the foot are swollen also. All over the trunk and limbs a similar change can be observed, though here it more closely resembles an increase in the subcutaneous fat or the general oedema of renal disease. On palpation the swelling does not pit and feels more elastic than fat, and if the skin is punctured no serous fluid escapes. The appearance of the face is profoundly altered, as, in addition to the swell- ing of the eyelids, the cheeks may be pendulous, and the lips are thick and everted. The palpe- bral fissure is narrowed from falling of the upper