TOXICOLOGY 62 cauterise the throat. The symptoms are those of a corrosive and an irritant. The treatment consists in the adminstration of common salt, followed by an emetic. White of egg and ice, with hypodermic injections of morphine, are subsequently to be given. The fatal dose is unknown. Post-mortem, there will be patches of greyish- white where the poison came in contact with the mucous membrane, in addition to the usual appearances produced by an irritant. Chronic poisoning by silver is iisually the result of prolonged medicinal treatment with silver salts. One of the chief symptoms is argyria; a lead-blue discoloration of the skin, due to the deposition of reduced silver in the papillary layer of the corium, which is per- manent. Tests. —Hydrochloric acid produces a curdy precipitate with a solution of a silver salt, which is soluble in ammonia water but is insoluble in nitric acid. Zinc.—The salts by which acute poisoning is caused are the sulphate and the chloride. The sulphate, in poisonous doses, produces violent vomiting and the usual symptoms of an irritant. The treatment is limited to attention to the symptoms, as the poison is usually evacuated spontaneously and its toxic action is but feeble. The fatal dose is not known. Recovery has followed one ounce. The chloride is a powerful corrosive. Its action is to be combated by tea- spoonful doses of sodium carbonate, white of egg, and opium. Tests.—The formation of a white sulphide on the addition of sulphuretted hydrogen to a neutral or alkaline solution of a zinc salt, is a characteristic reaction. The gelatinous, opal- escent precipitate given by potassium hydrate, and soluble in excess, is also characteristic. Potassium ferrocyanide gives a yellowish, gela- tinous precipitate. Tin.—Poisoning by tin-salts is very rare. It has usually occurred from the presence of the metal in the juice of tinned fruits, the acids of which, acting on the solder, or on the tinned surface of the containing vessel, have charged the juice with the corresponding salts of tin. The treatment consists in emptying the stomach and administering white of egg, milk, ice, and opium. Tests. — Stannic salts give a yellow, and stannous salts a brown, precipitate with sul- phuretted hydrogen. With mercuric chloride and a little hydrochloric acid, stannous salts give a white precipitate which turns grey and subsequently black. Bismuth. — Two drachms of bismuth sub- nitrate have caused death with symptoms of gastric irritation, together with stomatitis and foul breath. The treatment consists in evacu- ating the stomach and then giving ice, and opium if necessary. Iron.—One ounce and a half of the tincture of perchloride of iron caused death after five weeks. The symptoms and treatment are those of an irritant. Chromium.—Half an oimce of a solution of chromic acid, 100 grains to the ounce, has caused death after being applied to papillo- matous growths; chromic acid has produced severe toxic symptoms after being swallowed. Potassium dichromate, in two-drachm dose, has caused death in four hours; recovery has followed 270 grains. Lead chromate has also caused death. The symptoms produced are those of acute gastritis, with disturbance of respiration. The treatment consists in evacu- ating the stomach and then giving magnesium carbonate, or chalk suspended in water. Opium will probably be required and also stimulants. Non-Metallic Elements Phosphorus.—The toxic action of phosphorus is chiefly utilised as a means of committing suicide, for which purpose either rat-paste, which consists of finely divided phosphorus mixed with fatty matter artificially coloured, or the heads of matches, are swallowed. Phos- phorus poisoning is more common in women than in men, partly because phosphorus is taken by women in order to procure abortion. Occa- sionally young children are fatally poisoned by sucking the heads of matches. Symptoms of Acute Phosphorus Poisoning.— The primary symptoms are those of an irritant. They come on in from a few minutes to twelve, or more, hours. The early vomit and the patient's breath may appear luminous and yield a garlic-like odour. There is intense thirst, eructations, and a painful sensation in the gullet and stomach, with a foul tongue and a tender tympanitic abdomen. At this stage diarrhoea is more frequently absent than present. In rapidly fatal cases (which are the exception), the gravity of the symptoms increases until the patient dies in eight or ten hours. The more usual course is that the primary symptoms diminish somewhat in intensity, the diarrhoea, if present in the early stage, ceases, and the patient appears easier for one or two days, with persistence of the thirst and possibly occasional attacks of vomiting and a tender state of the abdomen. Then the secondary symptoms de- velop : the white of the eye and the skin acquire a jaundiced hue, pain is felt in the epigastric region, and the liver, and sometimes the spleen, are enlarged. The abdominal distension and tympany increase, the vomiting returns and is now accompanied by diarrhoea, both vomit and motions, probably, containing blood. The urine is high-coloured and scanty and contains albumin and bile pigments. There is a general haemor- rhagic tendency, shown by epistaxis, hsematuria, purpuric spots, and, in women, metrorrhagia. The pulse is quick, but there is not much eleva-