VACCINATION 381 filled with water, till the air was poisoned with the stench of putrid bodies." Catlin, in his History of the North American Indians, mentions that of a population of 12,000,000, 6,000,000 fell victims to smallpox. In another place he says : " Each tribe has had this exotic disease in turn, and in a few months it has lost one-half or more of its numbers." ^ In 1707 an epidemic in Iceland is said, from records furnished by the Government of Den- mark, to have killed 18,000 out of 50,000 of the inhabitants, i.e. 36 per cent. In Greenland in 1734 an epidemic is believed by Sir John Simon to have destroyed two-thirds of the whole population. In Mexico and Greenland there is no history of any earlier epidemic; in Iceland there had been none for a number of years, probably not since 1616. Therefore in all three cases no considerable section of the population would be protected by a previous attack. How severe a scourge smallpox was towards the end of the seventeenth century is plainly seen in the pages of Evelyn and Pepys. From 1684 to 1695 Evelyn's Diary abounds in references to the disease and to its terrible results. December 1684.—The smallpox very pre- valent and mortal. 1th March 1685.—My daughter Mary was taken with smallpox, and there soon was found no hope of her recovery. A great affliction to me." A few days later there is mention of her death:— " Oh, dear sweet child ! how shall I part with all this goodness and virtue without the bitter- ness of sorrow and reluctancy of a tender parent % . . . Never can I say enough ; oh dear, my dear child, whose memory is so precious to me. . . . Thus lived and died. . . . The joy of my life." Three months later it is noted that — " Mr. Hussey, who made love to my late dear child, died now of the same cruel disease. "27<A August 1685.—My daughter Ehzabeth died of the smallpox soon after her marriage. ''\hth April 1686.—The Archbishop of York now died of smallpox. " December 1694.—The smallpox increased ex- ceedingly, and was very mortal. The Queen died of it on the 28th. " IZth January 1695.—The deaths in London by smallpox increased to 500 more than in the preceding week." This was for London only. The epidemic in London, in the winter of 1901-1902, with a population of 5,000,000, killed, from August 1901 to February 1902, 600 people; but in Evelyn's time the increased mortality from one week to the next was said by him to be 500, and this in a population of probably less than one-twelfth of the present number in London. Pepys's Diary tells the same sad story. The history of the deaths caused by smallpox among ^ Vol. ii. p. 150, revised edition. the royal families of Europe is a further confir- mation of its great prevalence and severity. Mention has been made of the death of Queen Mary in her thirty-third year. The king also lost from the same cause both his parents, an uncle, and two cousins. He had it himself very severely, and recovered with a constitution damaged for life. In Austria it killed Joseph I., and in the eighteenth century two empresses, six other members of the imperial family, an Elector of Saxony, and the last Elector of Bavaria. Also a Dauphin (1711) and a King (1774) of France, a Queen (1741) of Sweden, a Queen of Naples, and an Emperor (1727) of Kussia. In fact, the high mortality in royal and aristocratic families illustrates the danger of trying to keep children away from the con- tagion in their youth. The risk of infection in later life was greatly increased by the care exercised to preserve the children of great families in early life. Horace Walpole's letters are full of references both to smallpox and inoculation. " Lord Dalkeith is dead of the smallpox in three days. It is so dreadfully fatal in his family, that besides several uncles and aunts, his eldest boy died of it last year, and his only brother, who was ill but two days. . . ."—Vol. ii. p. 203. "Lord Waldegrave is just dead of the small- pox. . . . His brother and sister were inocu- lated, but it was eai-ly in the practice of that great preservative, which was then devoutly opposed ; he was eldest son, and weakly."—Vol. iv. p. 65. " A very curious list might be compiled of the heads of great families left without heirs-male by the smallpox; the two most remarkable are the familiar friends Queen Anne and the Duchess of Marlborough." In vol. vi. Walpole comments on the death of Louis XV. from smallpox, and on the devotion of his daughters who tended him, and who both caught it. On page 95 he notes, " The whole Blood Royal of France is now recovered from the smallpox." In an earlier volume he says, " Prince George (afterwards George III.) is ill of smallpox"; and on page 327, "Lord Beau- champ, only son of the last Duke of Somerset of that branch, died of smallpox after a four days' illness. Ben Jonson's epigram may also be quoted :— Envious and foule disease, can there not be One Beau tie in an age and free from thee ? Macaulay, in his essay on Sir William Temple and Dorothy Osborne, says :— " Poor Mistress Osborne fell ill with smallpox, and though she escaped with her life, lost all her beauty. To this most severe trial the affection and honour of the lovere of that age was not unfrequently subjected. Our readers probably remember what Mrs. Hutchinson tells