55 TOXICOLOGY corpuscles. The spleen and liver may be en- larged. Barium Chloride.—This salt acts locally as an irritant and centrally as a nerve poison. Symptoms. — Shortly after the poison is swallowed the usual symptoms of an irritant poison manifest themselves. In addition, the action of the heart becomes feeble and irregular, and pain may be felt in the cardiac region. The breathing is slow and laboured ; the air- passages may become filled with mucus, causing dyspnoea and cyanosis. Singing in the ears, diplopia, pains in the limbs, coma, and in some instances paralysis, afford further evidence of the action of the poison on the nervous system. Treatment.—The stomach-pump or an emetic, unless vomiting has already occurred. Sodium, or magnesium sulphate, should be given in half- ounce doses. Hypodermic injections of mor- phine and external warmth are useful. Fatal Dose. — One teaspoonful has caused death. The fatal period has extended from one hour to seven days. Post-mortem Appearances.—The usual diff'usely inflamed appearance due to irritant poisoning, with spots of ecchymoses, are usually found in the stomach. Tests.—By dipping a clean platinum wire into a solution containing a salt of barium, and then placing it in the flame of a Bunsen burner, a green colour is imparted to the flame. Dilute sulphuric acid, or a solution of an alkaline sul- phate, produces a white precipitate when added to a solution of a barium salt—the precipitate being insoluble in nitric acid. The salts of Strontium are not poisonous. Magnesium Sulphate, or Epsom salts, taken in large doses, has caused death. In one case four, in another, two ounces, and in a third case one ounce, respectively caused death. Vomiting and purging may be absent. Arsenic.— All combinations of arsenic are poisonous. The form in which it is most fre- quently used as a poison is arsenious oxide, commonly called white arsenic. When fresh it is glassy-looking and has a smooth, vitreous fracture ; after being kept some time it becomes opaque and porcelain-like. When powdered it looks like flour. It has little taste, and no colour nor odour—properties which singularly fit it for homicidal purposes. Arsenious oxide is but slightly soluble in water; cold water dissolves about half a grain to a grain per ounce. Boiling water dissolves much more, the greater part, however, being deposited on cooling. When powdered arsenious oxide is added to water or liquid food, the finer particles float like a white scum on the surface, and cannot be got rid of by stirring; this appear- ance is very significant. White arsenic cannot legally be sold in quantities of less than ten pounds unless it is mixed with soot or indigo. When arsenious oxide is combined with potash or soda it is much more soluble. Some kinds of "fly-papers" are saturated with sodium or potassium arsenite and then dried ; by soaking such papers in water a strong solution contain- ing arsenic may be obtained, a fact that has been utilised for criminal purposes. In a higher degree of oxidation, as arsenic acid, arsenic is used in the manufacture of aniline colours, and also in combination with sodium as a fly-poison. Copper arsenite, or Scheele's green, is a pigment in common use, and occa- sionally gives rise to chronic arsenical poisoning by being detached in a state of minute division from wall-papers, fabrics, or woodwork which have been coloured with it. Arsenietted hydro- gen is an extremely potent blood poison, which from time to time causes fatal poisoning to workmen who inhale the gas. Some organic compounds of arsenic are extremely poisonous, others are but feebly so. The combination of cacodylic acid belong to the latter group, and on this account have been used medicinally, especially sodium cacodylate, of which six to ten grains (equal to about four to six grains of arsenious oxide) have been administered daily for weeks without ill eff'ects. On the other hand symptoms of arsenical poisoning have been caused by very much smaller doses. Symptoms of Acute Arsenical Foisoning.—In from half an hour to an hour after a poisonous dose of arsenious oxide has been swallowed, a sensation of heat, which rapidly develops into a violent burning pain, is felt in the throat and stomach ; then follow nausea and uncontrollable vomiting. Violent purging sets in, and, after the normal contents of the bowels have been evacuated, the motions tend to assume a rice- water appearance, and they may contain blood. The purging is accompanied by distressing tenesmus and by a burning sensation in the rectum. There is extreme thirst, any attempt to relieve it being immediately followed by rejection of the swallowed fluid. Indications of collapse now set in; the face assumes a veiy anxious appearance, the features are sunken, the surface is cold, moist, and cyanosed, the pulse is small and thready, respiration is laboured, and the voice is hoarse. The tongue, at first thickly coated with white fur, often becomes red at the tip and round the edges; sometimes it is iinnaturally red all over. Owing to the vomiting and the low arterial tension the urine is very scanty. Cramps in the calves add to the patient's distress. Consciousness may be maintained to the end, or death may be preceded by coma, in which condition clonic or tonic spasms may occur. In exceptional instances the symptoms vary from the above description. The interval between the swallowing of the poison and the commencement of the symptoms may be much shorter, only ten minutes, or it may be pro- longed to twelve or eighteen hours, the condition