TRADES, DANGEROUS 86 the dust, they swallow it. When they eat their food with unwashed hands the lead which is swallowed becomes dissolved by the hydro- chloric acid of the gastric juice, and is converted into a soluble chloride, some of which may be absorbed as chloride, or it may be converted into an albuminate, while a large quantity escapes by the fseces in the form of sulphide. That lead is capable of entering the system through the skin has been demonstrated by the use of cosmetics and hair-dyes that contain lead. When the poison is circulating in the blood symptoms of acute plumbism show them- selves, often on the side of the nervous system; but there is a tendency for the metal to be de- posited in the tissues, probably in the form of the rather insoluble albuminate. In several of my fatal cases of plumbism, Dr. Bedson, Pro- fessor of Chemistry in the University of Durham College of Science, extracted from the liver, kidneys, brain, and muscles lead in varying quantities. The poison is unevenly distributed throughout the body, but in my own cases the liver was the organ that generally contained the largest quantity of lead. Symptomatology.—One of the earliest signs of a white-lead worker becoming poisoned by lead is a peculiar pallor of the countenance. Prob- ably for several weeks the friends of the work- man have noticed that he has been losing the ruddy appearance of health. Not only does the face become pale, but the features tend to become expressionless. There is a peculiar fulness, too, in the lower half of the face. On examining the blood microscopically it is noticed that there are fewer I'ed corpuscles than in health, and that the hajmoglobin is proportion- ally diminished, while the number of leucocytes remains about the normal. Since lead is often found in the bones after death, the probability is that the function of bone marrow as a blood- cell-forming agent is sex'iously impaired early in the course of plumbism. Sometimes with- out any very marked, but usually with a considerable degree of pallor, the worker is gradually or suddenly seized with acute pain in the abdomen, which is referred to the neigh- bourhood of the umbilicus just above or to either side of it. The pain is sometimes so severe that he writhes in agony. He can allow nothing to touch his abdomen. In other in- stances not only is pressure well borne but relief is obtained by the patient placing a pillow on the back of a chair and leaning all his weight upon it. Accompanying the pain there is often vomiting and a considerable amount of restlessness. Usually the bowels are obstinately confined, but instead of constipation there may be diarrhoea. The abdomen may be retracted, but not necessarily so. During the attack of colic, sulphocyanides disappear from the saliva to reappear on cessation of the pain. The cause of lead colic has not been definitely determined. The character of the pain is suggestive of spasm, and it is therefore prob- ably due to extreme peristaltic contraction of portions of the small intestine. In animals poisoned by lead I have found the small intestine so firmly contracted at places as to have its calibre completely obliterated, while the intervening portions wei'e either normal or very slightly dilated. The pain therefore might be due to the distended portions of the intestine trying to send on their contents into the portions spasmodically contracted, or be due, as is more probable, to the spasmodic con- traction itself. It is difficult to say whether lead acts primarily upon the muscular fibre of the bowel, or upon the sympathetic ganglia and nerve-fibres. During colic the radial pulse is small, slow, and feeble; it may fall to forty beats in the minute. At other times the pulse is one of high tension, and the two radial pulses are imequal. The urine is scanty; sometimes only eight or ten ounces are passed in the day. In uncomplicated cases it is free from albumin, but albumin may be present, persist through the colic in some patients, and disappear with it. This temporary albuminuria may be due to irritation of the renal epithelia by the toxic blood, or it may be that it marks the com- mencement of a parenchymatous nephritis, which becomes confirmed as time goes on, and ultimately ends in the development of con- tracted kidney. Frequently lead colic has been mistaken for appendicitis, and vice verm. The question has been sometimes raised as to whether poisoning of the musculature of the bowel by lead may become a cause of appendi- citis. Certainly a patient suffering from lead colic can develop an appendicitis; but even under these circumstances I should regard in- testinal micro-organisms as the more probable cause of the appendicitis. It is not always easy to distinguish between lead colic and inflamma- tion of the appendix. As a rule lead colic only lasts two or three days, the pain is referred to a part higher up in the abdomen than the seat of the appendix, there is more sickness, also an absence of the elevated temperature observed in appendicitis. On examining the gums there is usually to be seen a blue line close to the margins of the teeth, especially noticeable where the teeth are decayed. Such a line, although corroborative evidence of plumbism, is not a proof of lead-poisoning being present at the time of its detection by the medical pi-actitioner, for a blue line may for months be seen on the gums of lead-workers without these persons pre- senting any symptoms of lead-poisoning at alL It indicates that lead is in the system. This blue line, which was first described by Burton, is due to the deposition of particles of sulphide of lead in the deeper epithelial cells of the gums, and particularly in the large connective-tissue cells situated in the ulcerated portion of the