TOXICOLOGY 66 which cannot be distinguished from apoplexy and many other causes of total insensibility. The face may be either flushed or pale, the conjunctivae are injected, the pupils may be either contracted or dilated, the breathing is slow and more or less stertorous, the pulse is scarcely perceptible, the surface is cold and clammy, and on account of the extremely low arterial tension and laboured breathing the face is usually cyanotic. If the case goes on to a fatal issue, the lungs become oedematous and cardiac failure occurs. Treatment.—The stomach-pump or an emetic is to be resorted to, and hot coffee administered, which probably can only be accomplished with the aid of a tube. Friction applied to the surface, alternating with cold douches should the skin be hot, along with attempts to rouse the patient from time to time, are helpful. Should the patient not respond, the faradic current may be applied, and in extreme cases artificial respiration may be needed. If there is any doubt as to the cause of the coma, keep the patient under observation as a possible cerebral lesion, until the diagnosis is obvious. The diagnosis may be aided by adding a few drops of potassium dichromate to some of the patient's urine in a test-tube and then allow- ing some strong sulphuric acid to flow down the side of the tube to the bottom, where a green colour is developed if alcohol be present. Fost-mortem Appearances.—If the patient died shortly after drinking a large quantity of spirit, the indications will be characteristic. The stomach and various cavities of the body yield the odour of the spirit which was swallowed. The mucous membrane of the stomach may be injected or pale. The lungs are hyperaemic, and the right side of the heart and veins are filled with dark-coloured fluid blood. The bladder usually contains a large quantity of urine, which may be tested as above described. If the deceased was an habitual drunkard, the usual tissue changes due to chronic alcoholism will also be present. Chloral Hydrate.—Soon after a poisonous dose has been swallowed the patient becomes drowsy and then comatose. The face is cyanotic, or is pallid, and the entire surface is very cold and moist. The respirations are slow and laboured; the pulse is small and, in the later stage, is slow. The pupils are usually con- tracted. Death takes place from heart-failure. Treatment.—The stomach should be emptied by the tube or an emetic, and hot coff'ee injected into it. The body should be wrapped in blankets and hot bottles applied. Friction of the surface is useful. If breathing fails, arti- ficial respiration must be carried on, and hypo- dermic injections of a twenty-fifth of a grain of strychnine administered. Alcohol may be given by the mouth or rectum, and ether subcu- taneously. Attempts should be made from time to time to rouse the patient. Fatal Dose.—Twenty grains have caused death to an adult, and three grains to a child one year old. Recovery has followed 420 grains. Death has occurred in fifteen minutes ; it may be delayed for six or more hours. There is no characteristic post-mortem appearance. Test.—To a test-tube nearly full of a solution of chloral hydrate add a single drop of am- monium sulphide, and mix by closing the tube with the thumb and inverting it. Then heat the upper stratum of the liquid in the flame, when it at once darkens in colour and after- wards becomes turbid. Chloroform.—When a poisonous quantity of chloroform is taken into the system, either by inhalation of its vapour or by swallowing the poison in the liquid state, the face becomes pale and cyanotic, the features are sunken, the entire surface is cold and clammy, the pupils are insensitive to light and are frequently dilated; the corneal reflex is abolished, the breathing is stertorous, the pulse is small and slow and of low tension. Death occurs from paralysis of the respiratory centres or from cardiac failure. When chloroform is swallowed in the liquid state gastro-intestinal irritation is produced by direct contact of the poison with the mucous membrane. Treatment. — When the poison has been swallowed the stomach should be emptied and washed out with the tube. The inhalation of amyl nitrite and artificial respiration will probably be needed whether the poison was swallowed or its vapour was inhaled. The patient should be placed in the horizontal pos- ture and external warmth applied. If heart- failure threatens, invert the patient so as to keep the brain supplied with blood. Fatal Dose.—Swallowed in the liquid state seven fluid drachms caused the death of an adult, and one drachm caused the death of a boy four years old. Recovery has occurred after four ounces. Death has taken place in one hour, and has been delayed for forty-eight hours. Post-mortem Appearances.—With the excep- tion of signs of irritation and softening of the mucous membrane of the stomach, and possible fatty changes in the liver, kidneys, and heart, no indications of the action of the poison are present. Sulphonal has frequently given rise to symp- toms of poisoning, and on several occasions has caused death. One of the most characteristic indications that sulphonal is acting injuriously is an abnormal coloration of the urine. After sulphonal has been taken, in medicinal doses, for some time, the urine has often been observed to vary from burgundy red to reddish black in colour; this is due to the presence of an un- known pigment associated with hsematopor-