574 X-RAYS calcium gummed on to a flexible material; tlie prepared side should be placed against the film side of the negative, and both placed in the light-tight envelope together. Curious markings in the form of wavy lines and streaks sometimes appear upon Rontgen ray negatives, and have not so far been satis- factorily explained, and this is another reason for avoiding the use of anything likely to impair the clearness of the result. The value of the Rontgen rays in surgical affections of the bones and joints is well summed up by Dr. David Walsh in 'The Rihitgen Rays, p. 132:—"To sum up; in dealing with bone injuries, successful radiography, compared with Fio. 18.—Congenital dislocation, left liip-joiiit. previous methods, offers the following ad- vantages : It substitutes speed, accuracy, and finality for delay and doubt; it affords exact evidence, that may confirm or modify the diagnosis of the surgeon ; it may furnish both grounds for prognosis and hints for treatment; it may save the patient the pain of useless, and perhaps dangerous manipulations as well as the shock of anaesthetics; it provides a permanent record of the precise nature of an injury; it may prove a safeguard for the patient and for his medical attendant both in the present and the future; and, lastly, it can hardly fail to be of value for teaching purposes." It may be pointed out that considerable practice is required for rightly interpreting Rontgen ray photographs, and that medical men would do well in such cases to call in the aid of an expert; more is usually to be learned from the negative than from the print, a little of the detail and contrast is lost in each trans- ference, and in the print there is also lateral inversion ; thus, if the left shoulder joint be photographed the negative will show it as the left, but the print will show it as the right. The rays are also of great value in the diagnosis of disease of the bones; in tuber- cular osteitis there is usually a lighter centre in the shaft due to rarefaction and a denser shadow on each side due to osteoplastic pro- cesses under the periosteum; in syphilitic osteitis the usual shadow is uni- formly dense, due to a sclerosis, but in some cases of syphilis the bones are quite remark- ably transparent, as in a case ex- hibited by the author at the Edin. Med. Chir. Society, Doc. 4, 1901. In tuber- cular joint disease it is common to see a general hazi- ness and want of outline, and in advanced cases of wrist-joint disease the carpal bones may be quite transparent. Cartilaginous out- growths and callus throw very faint shadows, so do gummata and sar- comata, but if they become ossi- fied they will be distinctly revealed. Dislocation and deformities require no special mention. Acromegaly is a condition which ex- hibits characteristic changes. Rontgen Ray Therapeutics.—The number of the diseases which have been subjected to treat- ment by the X-rays is a constantly increasing one; they have been used in skin diseases, rodent ulcer, malignant disease of all kinds, phthisis, pulmonary and laryngeal, trachoma, tubercular glands and joints, sinus and fistula, spinal cord diseases, and for the relief of pain. The skin diseases in which they have been found most serviceable are :— Lupus, eczema chronic, favus, sycosis, hyper- trichosis, lupus erythematosus, mycosis fun- goides, xeroderma pigmentosum, etc.