TOXICOLOGY 71 numbing influence is withdrawn, the nerves for a time are hypereesthetic, and as the gastric juice at the same time tends to be abnormally acid, much suffering results. Belladonna. — Poisoning by belladonna is usually due to the swallowing of a preparation of the drug which is intended for external use, or to eating the fresh berries. Atropine has caused death by being applied in the form of an ointment to a blistered surface; it has frequently produced symptoms of poisoning when a solution containing it has been dropped into the eye in order to dilate the pupil. Symptoms.—Soon after a poisonous amount of belladonna has been swallowed the symptoms begin and rapidly increase in severity. A hot, dry sensation, and a feeling of constriction, are experienced in the throat, which are accompanied by thirst; the tongue is dry, the saliva is in- spissated, and swallowing is almost impossible. The pupils are dilated to the uttermost, leaving only a narrow ring of the iris visible, and they are insensitive to light. The conjunctiva are suffused. The pulse is quick—120 to 160 in the minute—and is often so small as scarcely to be felt at the wrist. In the early stage the skin is hot and dry, and is often covered with a scarlatina-like rash, which may be followed by desquamation; in the later stage the skin may be cold. Dizziness and indistinctness of vision occur, and may be succeeded by complete loss of sight and incapacity to walk. Next to the extreme dilatation of the pupils the most char- acteristic symptom of belladonna poisoning is the peculiar type of delirium that occurs; it is excitable, lively, and imitative; the patient is voluble, and pours forth a stream of inco- herent, stammering utterances, interspersed with laughter and shouting. Imitative actions are performed with a gravity of demeanour and of persistence that is ludicrous; the patient will go through the movements of counting coins, or of putting something in his mouth and chewing it, for a prolonged time, the movements being almost machine-like in their exact sequence. Numbness of the hands and feet is frequently present, the patient usually being unable to stand. The intestines and the bladder are generally paralysed. Recovery is slow; many days elapse before the pupils regain their normal size, and visual accommodation and perception are still longer defective. After severe poisoning the memory may be enfeebled, especially for names and persons and things, producing a kind of aphasia. A large proportion of cases of belladonna poisoning recover, including those in which the symptoms were severe. Treatment.—Wash out the stomach or give an emetic. Afterwards strong tea and coffee may be administered. Hypodermic injections of pilocarpine, one-third to half a grain of the hydrochlorate, act antagonistically. If pilo- carpine is not available, quarter or half-grain doses of morphine may be substituted. During the hot stage douching and sponging with cold water is beneficial; in the more advanced stage of severe poisoning artificial respiration may be required. Fatal Dose.—One drachm of belladonna lini- ment, and the same amount of the extract, have respectively caused death after being swallowed. Recovery has taken place after ten drachms of the liniment, and after half an ounce of the extract. Fourteen belladonna berries have caused the death of an adult, and recovery has followed fifty. Children are less susceptible to the action of belladonna than adults ; recovery in children has followed thirty berries. Bella- donna applied externally, either as a plaster or in the form of the extract, has often produced toxic effects. Two grains of atropine have caused death; recovery has followed five and a half grains. A child, two and a half years old, recovered from a quarter of a grain of atropine. Post-mortem Ai^pearances.—No characteristic indications are afforded after death from bella- donna poisoning unless the berries have been eaten, when fragments of them, or their seeds, may be found in the intestinal canal. Tests.—A drop of a solution containing atropine, even only in infinitesimal amount, if instilled into the eye of a young cat, causes dilatation of the pupil. This test may be used to confirm diagnosis ; a drop of the patient's urine will dilate the pupil of a kitten if dropped into its eye. Henbane and Stramonium produce toxic symptoms resembling those produced by bella- donna. Another mydriatic, Duboisine, acts similarly. The active principle in each case is isomeric with atropine. The treatment is the same as for atropine. The fatal doses are not known. One-eighth of a grain of hyoscyamine, swallowed along with one-eighth of a grain of moi-phine sulphate, caused death. The hypodermic injection of one-thirtieth of a grain of hyoscine caused severe symptoms, followed by recovery. Seventeen or eighteen grains of extract of stramonium caused death. The instillation of one-hundredth of a grain of duboisine sulphate into the eyes pro- duced severe toxic symptoms, followed by re- covery. No characteristic post-mortem appearances are produced by any of these atropaceous plants. Indian Hemp {Cannabis Indica) is a hypnotic which, in the form of haschisch, is used in the East to procure sensuous hallucinations. It has often caused toxic symptoms and, occasion- ally, death, but the fatal dose is not known. The treatment would be the same as for opium. Gelsemium.—Poisoning by yellow jasmine is usually due to excessive medicinal doses, or to idiosyncrasy on the part of patients for whom it has been prescribed. The symptoms are :— Giddiness, loss of speech, clonic spasms, un-