XIPHODYMUS OR two legs, but there may be a third (rudimentary) lower limb. XiphOpagfUS.—A teratological type in which two foetuses are united by the tissues stretching from the lower end of the sternum to the umbilicus. See Teratology {Thoracopagous Double Monsters). X-Rays, Finsen Ligfht, and Hig^h Frequency Currents. RoNTGEN Rays, Their Nature and Pro- duction 565 In Diagnosis . . . . .571 In Treatment . . . .574 Skin Affections .... 574 Tumours . . . . .576 Other Affections . . .577 The Finsen Light. .... 578 Its Advantages and Disadvantages . 579 High Frequency Currents . . . 580 Mode of Production . . . .580 Therapeutics of ... . 582 See also Bladder, Injuries and Diseases [Calculus Vesicae, Diagnosis); Bone, Diseases OF {Chronic Osteomyelitis, Diagnosis); Conjunc- tiva, Diseases of (Va7-ious Conditions, Con- jimctivitis from Dazzling); Cornea {Injuries, Foreign Bodies, Diagnosis); Favus {Treatment); Heart, Surgery of {Foreign Bodies); Hip- Joint, Injuries op {Epiphyseal Separations, Diagnosis); Hydatid Disease {Diagnosis); Medi- astinum {Growths, Diagnosis); Orbit, Diseases of {Injuries, Diagnosis of Foreign Bodies); Osteo-Arthropathies {Pulmonary, Diagnosis); Pleura, Affections of, Surgical {Empyema, Diagnosis); Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthritis {Morbid Anatomy); Rodent \JjjG^u {Treatment); Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of {Disloca- tions, Diagnosis); Skin, Tuberculosis of {Lupus V^dgaris, Treatment); Stomach, Surgi- cal {Foreign Bodies, Diagnosis); Teeth {Exo- stosis, Diagnosis); Tumours, Inoperable, Treat- ment (Phototherapy). Their Nature and Production Though seven years have elapsed since Prof. Rontgen made his wonderful discovery, very little has comparatively been since added to our knowledge as to their physical nature or as to our means of generating them. Though their nature is still unknown, evi- dence has been accumulating in favour of Sir George Stokes' theory, that they are due to irregular impulses in the ether comparable acoustically to a noise. Thus it has been shown that they travel with the velocity of light (Blondlot), but they differ from ordinary light in not being capable of regular reflection, re- fraction, or polarisation; ^ they can, however, excite fluorescence, affect a photographic plate, ^ Blondlot has recently shown that the rays are polarised. XIPHODIDYMUS 565 and discharge an electrified body, but these are the chief properties of violet and ultra violet light, so that the Rontgen rays more closely resemble ultra violet light than ordinary visible light. There are altogether four chief qualities of radiation which are used in medicine, and they can be tabulated as follows :— 1. Radiant heat rays (invisible). 2. Ordinary light. 3. Ultra violet light (invisible). 4. Rontgen rays (invisible). The Effluve, or brush discharge, produced by high frequency currents has some of the pro- perties of ultra violet light. About three of these forms of radiation a good deal is known ; thus if we examine the spectrum of white light, we find it consists of seven colours which are arranged with the radiant heat rays and the ultra violet rays as follows :— Invisible.—Radiant heat. Visible Spectrum.—Red, orange, yellow, green, blue (Finsen rays), indigo (Finsen rays), violet (Finsen rays). Invisible.—Ultra violet (Finsen rays). The rays are arranged in this table according to their wave lengths; thus the radiant heat rays have the longest wave length and the ultra violet the shortest. Our knowledge is not at present sufficiently-definite to permit us to assign a position in this table to the Rontgen rays, but they have, as we have seen, the lead- ing properties of the invisible ultra violet rays. They differ chiefly in their powers of penetra- tion. Ultra violet rays have but little pene- trative power as regards our tissues, and are absorbed by the thinnest film of blood, while the Rontgen rays pass through our skin and soft structures with great facility, but throw shadows of the bones. Transparency to Rontgen rays is a question of density; all light bodies are transparent and all heavy bodies are opaque. In the following table of densities an attempt has been made to roughly indicate in order the relative transparency of bodies, but it must be remembered that transparency and opacity are only questions of a degree, and that a thin film of an opaque body would permit some of the rays to go through, while a thick film of a trans- parent body would cast a shadow. Quite opaque.—Platinum, mercury, bismuth, lead, silver. Opaque.—Copper, iron, zinc. Semitransparent. — Flint glass, aluminium, quartz, crown glass, calculi of lime oxalate, calculi of phosphates, bone, calculi of uric acid. Transparent. — Biliary calculi, cutaneous tissue, tendons, arteries, muscles, blood, veins, nerves, brain, pus, urine, milk, water, human fat, wood, etc. The above table is one of the order of relative transparency ; thus calculi of oxalates are more opaque than calculi of phosphates or of urates.