ITW';' \ V • ' '- V ' <• , <, • \ \'^ V \v\>sv\KING’S College LONDON 'TotAna Qyttt MfC Library OlHu rJt i 0(^ Tnt. My' 'Thd Hvt^/W <3cncY N\7 20 ■ 10870 5 1 III II III KING’S COLLEGE LONDONK. ; q 4. u. ♦ -1 '< I m P.-y h « _<r* > . 4Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 4 https://archive.org/details/b21304464_0003u, OUTLINES OP THE , f ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BODY, JN ITS SOUND AND DISEASED STATE. BY ALEXANDER MONRO junior, M.D. F.R.S. E. PROFXSBOB OF MEDICINE, ANATOMT AND SURGERY, IN THE UMITEBSITY OF EDINBURGH, FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, AND ONE OF THE PHYSICIANS TO THE GENERAL DISPENSARY OF EDINEURSBi IN THREE VOLUMES. VOL. III. EDINBURGH: PRINTED FOR ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE & CO. EDINBURGH : AND LONGMAN, HURST, REES, OKME & BROWN, LONDON. « 1813IoiAkS Nbill & Co. Printers, Edinburgh.TO ANDREW WARDROP, Esq. M. D, F. R. S. E., AND MEMBER OP THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS ; T-HIS TRIBUTE OF GRATITUDE AND SINCERE REGARD, / IS RESPECTFULLY PRESENTED BY THE AUTHOR4 i *V m 'it '■ / W. 7/i jl’ ^ M /)L .f ’3iW7t vj t* «»%»*•» a -1 ™.. ^ > .U. *#' -•]*> * ."iK '• > V „?'••■' ii *' ' ' 1>V. ‘-^ ._ 4- mt^ »V“4^‘*. ■ ,. v> : • '''■' ‘5|* >. ■>• •,T>.’ • ® V' >**>/_-. 0 ./ t % • I >* f :?•' . ' •< *' " -4 • < ■— iff' ' ^ ' ^•‘/‘ V • J . *’» > *u‘ I l-c* ^ ^ r%^ •;!! vtif NM •*» ^-lA M*r t ' * V.’ -•«.* ■-' ' • ->CONTENTS OF THE THIRD VOLUME. Chap. I. Of the Organs of Urin-?, - Page 1 Of the Kidneys, « ib. Of the Renal GIands> - 4 Of the Ureters^'-. - ib. Explanation of Plate 36, ’ - 5 Of the Bladder of Urine, ’ - ib. Of the Size and Figure of the Bladder of Urine, - - ib. Of the Fignrc of the'Bladder in the Adult, 6 Of the Bladder when undistended, - 7 Of the Bladder of the Adult when distended, S Of the Ligaments of the Bladder, - 10 ' Of the Coats of the Bladder of Urine, 11 Of the Urethra, . I3 Of the Urethra of the Male, - ib. Of the Gians Penis, - I5 Of the Urine, - I7 Of the Chemical Analysis of Urine, IS Authors on the Urinary Organs and Che- mical Analysis of Urine, « 20CONTENTS. VI PART XVII. Of Urinary Concretions, and the Or- ganic Derangements of the Urinary Organs, - - Page 23 Chap. I. Of Urinary Calculi, or Urinary Concretions, - ib. Chap. II, Of the Organic Derangements of the Urinary Organs, - 2g Of the Organic Diseases of the Kidney, ib. Of the Organic Derangements of the Ureters, - - 31 Of the Organic Derangements of the Bladder, - - ib. Of the Organic Derangements of the Urethra, - - 34 Explanation of Plate 40^ - 35 Authors on the Organic Derangements of the Urinaiy Organs, - 3G PART XVIII. Chap. I. Of the Organs of Generation in the Male, - 39 General observations on Generation, ib. Of the situation and relative connection of the Male Organs of Generation, 42 Of the Organs by which the Semen is prepared, - 4SCONTENTS. vii Of the Seminiferous Tubes of the Tes- ticle, - - Page 46 Explanation of Plate 39, “ Of the Spermatic Cord, - 5X Of the Vas Deferens, - ^<2 Of the Vesiculae Seminales, - 53 Of the Prostate and other Glands which secrete Fluids which are mixed with the Semen, - 55 Of Cowper’s Glands, - S6 Of the Penis, - 57 Of the Muscles which assist in expelling the Semen, - 58 Ischio-Cavernosus, or Erector Penis, ib. Bulbo-Urethralis, pr Accelerator Urinae, 59 Oi the Human Semen, - ib. Chap. II. Of the Female Organs of Gene- ration, - - 6l Of the Ovaria, - 63 Of the Uterus, or Womb, - 64 Of the Uterine or Fallopian Tubes, 68 Of the Vagina, - ib. Of the Orifice of the Vagina, - 69 Of the External Parts, - 7Q Conclusion, - - 72 Authors on the Organs of Generation, and on the Physiology of these Or- gans, - - 74 Authors on the Male Semen, - ' ib. Structure of the Testes, ib. — Female Organs, - ib. Of the Physiology of the Organs of Ge- neration, - - 75CONTENTS. Chap. II. Of the Organic Derangements of PART XIX. Of the Organic Derangements of the Chap. I. Of the Organic Derangements of . the Organs of Generation in the Male, Of the Organic Derangements of the Scrotum, • Of the Organic Derangements of the Substance and Coats of the Testes, Of the Organic Derangements of the Coats of the Testicle, Of the Organic Derangements of the Spermatic Cord, Of the Organic Derangements of the Prepuce and Body of the Penis, Of the Organic Derangements of the Prostate Gland, Authors on the Organic Derangements of the Male Organs, » the Female Organs of Genera- tion, Of the Organic Derangements of the Labia Externa, and other parts com- monly enumerated among the Exter- nal Organs of Generation in the Fe- male, Of the Hymen thickened, - Organs of Generation,CONTENTS. . lx VOL. III. Of the Organic Derangements of the Vagina^ - Page 90 Of contraction of the Vagina, - ib. Of the Organic Diseases of the Clitoris, 9I Of Mal-conformation and Organic Dis- eases of the Uterus, - ib. Of Sdrrhus of the Uterus, - 92 Of the Organic Derangements of the Ovarium, - 9‘t Organic Derangements of the Fallopian Tubes, - 95 Authors on the Organic Derangements of the Female parts of Generation, 96 On the Enlargement of the Labia Pu- dendi, - ib. PART XX. Chap. I. On the Nervous System, ' - 99 General observations on the Nervous System, - ib. Of the Plexuses of the Nerves, - 101 Of Ganglia of Nerves, - 103 Of the tenninations of the Nerves, 105 Chemical Analysis of the Brain and Nerves, - 107 Observations on the Functions of the Nerves, ' - 108 Of Sensation, - , 111 Chap. II. Of the Brain and Organs of the Senses, - - 120 Of the Brain and its investing Mem- branes, ib.CONTENTS. X Of the Dura Mater, - 121 Arachnoid Coat, 124 Pia Mater, ib. • Brain, Under surface of the Brain apd 125 Cerebellum, 130 . Cerebellum, 131 Tuber Annulare, or Pons Varolii, 132 Arteries of the Brain, 133 Veins of the Brain, ib. Nerv'es connected with the Brain, 134 % Physiology of the Brain, 136 Corollaires Anatomiques, of Drs Gall and SpunzEiN, ib. Chap. 111. Of the Organs of the Senses, 138 Of the Nose, ib. Chap. IV. Of the Eye,and its Appendages, 142 Of the Coats of tl>e Eye-Ball, ib. Choroid Coat, 144 N Ciliary Ligament, or Ciliary Circle, 145 Ciliary Processes, 146 Optic Nerve and Retina, ib. Iris, or Moveable Curtain, 149 Humours of the Eye, 152 Aqueous Humour, ib. * Crystalline Lens, ib. Vitreous Humour, i 156 ^ Bloodvessels of the Bye, 158 Conclusions, ib. Of the Muscles of the Eye-Ball, 159 Rectus Superior, or Levator Oculi, 160 Rectus Inferior, or Depressor Oculi, ib. Abductor Oculi, 161 Adductor Oculi, ib. Oblique Muscles of the Eye, h ih.XI CONTENTS. Of the Nerves of the Contents of the Orbitj - Page 162 Appendages to the Eye - l63 Eye-Lids, - ib. Ciliary Glands, - 16-i Cilia, or Eye-Lashes, - l65 Muscles of tlie eye-Lids, - ib. Naso-palpebralis, or Orbicularis Palpe- brarum, - ib. Orbito-palpebralis, or Attollens Palpe- bram Superiorera, - 166 Of the Supercilia, or Eye-Brows, - ib. Fronto-superciliaris, or Corrugator Su- percilii, . - l67 Of the Organ by which the Tears are secreted, and of the Passages by which the Tears are con- veyed to the Eye-Ball, and • from it into the Nose, - ib. Lacrymal Gland, - ib. Lacrymal Ducts, - l6S Puncta Lacrymalia, - 169 Lacrymal Sac, - 17O Ductus Incisivus, or Passage from the Nose into the Mouth, 171 Caruncula Lacrymalis, - 172 Chemical Analysis of the Tears, ib. Explanation of Plate 41, - 173 Chap. V. Of the Anatomy of the Ear, I74 Of the Organ of Hearing, - ib. External Cartilage of the Ear, ib. Temporo-Auricularis, or Attollens Aurem, 176 Zygomato-Auricularis, or An- terior Auris, - ib.xii CONTENTS. Mastoido-Auricularis, or Rctrahentes Aurem, - Page I76 Of the Internal parts of the Ear, - 179 Chain of Bones, - 180 Laxator Tympani, ^ - 181 Tensor Tympani, - 182 Stapedius, - 183 Of the Labyrinth, or Vestible, - 184) Cochlea, - 185 Nerves of the Ear, - 187 Explanation of Plate 42, - 193 Chap. VI. Of the Organs of Taste, - 194 'Chap. VII. Of the Organs of Touch, - 197 Of the Skin, - ib. Cuticle, - ib. Chemical Analysis of the Cuticle, 198 Nails, - ib. Corpus Mucosum, or Rete Muco- ' sum, - 199 Of Baynham’s Membrane, - 200 Of the Cutis Vera, or True Skin, - ib. Chemical Analysis of the Cutis Vera, - 202 Of the Physiology of the Skin, - ib. Hairs, - 205 Chemical Analysis of Hair, - 206 Of the Fat, - 207 Uses of the Fat, 208 Authors on the Brain and Nerves, 209 Books on Galvanism, - 210 Authors on the Structure of the Nose, ib. Eye, - 211 —— Organ of Flearing, 212CONTENTS. xii} Authors on Perspiration, - Page 213 ' Absorption by the Skin, 21^ PART XXI. , Chap. I. Organic Derangements of the Membranes of the Brain, Cerebellum, and Spinal Mar- row, - - 217 Of the Organic^ Derangements of the , Dura Mater, - ib. Organic Derangements of the Brain, ", - 218 Chap. II. Of the Organic Derangements of the Nose, and Sinuses con- nected with it, ‘ , 221 Chap. III. Of the Organic Derangements of the Eye-Ball, and its Ap- pendages, - 223 Of Organic Derangements of the Cornea, ib. OCInflammation of the Eye-Ball, 226 Of the Organic Derangements of, the Humours of the Eye, - 227 Of Organic Derangements of the Aqueous Humour, - ib. Of Organic Derangements of the Crys- talline Lens, its Capsule, and the Fluid between them, « ib. Of Dropsy of the Eye, - 229 Of the Organic Derangements of the Iris, . S3D bZCONTENTS. CONTENTS. Of Amaurosis, or Palsy of the Optic Nerve, - 230 Of Cancer of the Eye-Ball, 231 • Of Fungus Haematodes of the Eye-Ball, ib. Chap. IV. Of Organic Derangements of the Eye-Lids, 232 Chap. V. Of Organic Derangements of the Caruncula Lacrymalis, 233 Chap. VI. Of Fistula Lacrymalis, 234 Chap. V^I, Of the Organic Derangements of the Ear, 235 Chap. VIII. Of the Organic Derangements of the Skin, 236 Of Herpes, ' - 243 Tinea Capitis, 244 Impetigo, or Ring-Worm, ib. Psora, ib. Pernio, or Chilblain, 245 Lepra, - ib. Elephantiasis, 246 Ecthyma, or Terminthus, ’ ib. - Aphtha?, ib. Condyloma, 247 r-j • ■ Clavus, or Corns, - ib. Variola, or Small-Pox, ib. Varicella, or Chicken-Pox, 248 Vaccina, or Cow-Pox, ib. Cancer of the Skin, 250 Chap. IX. Of the Organic Derangements of the Cellular Substance, . - 251 Of Encysted Tumours, 252CONTENTS. XV Authors on the Organic Derangements of the Brain, and Or- gans of the 'Senses, Page 254 Hydrocephalus, - ib. the Organic Derangements of the Dura Mater, 255 the Organic Diseases of the Eye, - ib. the Organic Derangements of the Ear, - 256 the Diseases of the Skin, ib. the Cow-Pox, - 257 Worms found under the Sk-in, - ' 258 PART XXII. Chap. I. Of the Distribution of the Ar- teries, Veins, Nerves, and Lym- phatic Vessels, - 26l Of the Pulmonary Artery, - ib. Pulmonary Veins, - 262 Aorta, and Coronary Arteries, ib. Arteries of the Head, and some of those of the Neck, - 263 Internal Carotid, or Cerebral Ar- tery, - 269 Veins which correspond with the Branches of the External Caro- tid Artery, - 273 • Veins which correspond with the \ Branches of the Internal Caro- tid Artery, ^ 274 b 4iCONTENTS. Of varieties as to the origin and course of the Arteries of the Head and Neck, - Page 276 Explanation of Plate 43, ’ - 278 Of the Lymphatic Vessels of the Head , and Neck, - 279 Nerves of the Head and Neck, 281 Second Branch of the Fifth Pair, ib. Third Branch of the Fifth Pair, 282 Portio Dura of the Seventh Pair, 283 Eighth Pair of Nerves, - 284* . Ninth Pair of Nerves, - 286 Sympathetic Nerve, - ib. - Accessory Nerve, - 287 Spinal Marrow, - 288 Bloodvessels of the Spinal Marrow, 290 Veins of the Spinal Marrow, 291 Ghap. II. Of the Bloodvessels, Nerves, and Vessels of the Superior Ex- tremity, - ib. Of the Subclavian Artery and its Branches, ib. Of Varieties as to the Distribution of the Subclavian Artery, - 300 Explanation of Plate 44, - 304 Of the Veins of the Superior Extremity, 307 Nerves of the Neck and Superior Extremity, - 308 Explanation of Plate 45, - 318 Of the Lymphatic Vessels of the Superior Extremity, - 319 Chap. III. Of the Bloodvessels, Nerves, and Lymphatic Vessels of the Tho- rax, - - 321 Of the Thoracic Aorta, - ib. N fCONTENTS. awi -Of the Veins which correspond with the Branches of the Aorta, and Subclavian Arteries, which are proper to tlie Thorax, Page 324 Nerves which correspond with the above Bloodvessels, 325 Phrenic Nerve, - ib. Par Vagum of the Eighth Pair of Nerves, - ib- Sympathetic Nerve, - 326 Cardiac Neiwes of the Right Side, ib. Cardiac Nerves of the Left Side, 327 Intercostal, or Dorsal Nerves, 328 Lymphatic Vessels which are pro- per to the Heart and Lungs, 329 Thoracic Duct, - ib. Lymphatic Vessels of the Lungs, 330 Lymphatic Vessels of the Heart, 531 Chap. IV. Of the Bloodvessels, Nerves, and Lymphatic Vessels within the Cavity of the Abdomen, 332 Of the Branches of the Aorta, sent off within the Abdomen, or of the Abdominal Aorta, - ib. Superior Mesenteric Artery, - 335 Inferior Mesenteric Artery, 337 Corresponding Veins, - ib. Nerves of the Chylopoetic and assistant \’’iscera, - 338 Chap. V. Of the Arteries, Veins Lympha- tic Vessels, and Nerves of the Organs of Urine and Genera- tion, 34iXVUl CONTENTS. Of the Renal arteries, « 341 Spermatic Arteries, 342 Iliacae Communes, S4S Branches of the Posterior Iliac Artery, proper to the Organs of Urine' and Generation, ib. Varieties as to the Distribution of the Arteries, proper to the Organs of Urine and Genera- tion, - 345 Lymphatic Vessels of the Organs of Urine and Generation, 346 Veins which correspond with the Arteries of the Organs of Urine and Generation, 347 Ner\'es of the Organs of Urine and Generation, - 34S Chap. VI. Of the Arteries, Veins, Lympha- tic Vessels and Nerves of the Parietea of the Abdomen, Pel- vis and Inferior Extremities, 34>9 Of the Arteries of the Parictes of the Abdomen, Pelvis, and of the Inferior Extremity, - ib. Ilificas Communes, - . 350 Iliaca Posterior, - ib. Posterior Branches of the Pos- terior Iliac Artery, ib. Anterior Branches of the Pos- terior Iliac Artery, 352 Anterior Iliac Artery and its' Branches, - 354» Femoral Artery and its Branches, 355 Popliteal Artery,. - 361CONTENTS. six Of Deviations as to the course of the Arteries of the Inferior Extremity^ Page 367 Of the Veins of the Inferior Extremities, 368 Lymphatic Vessels of the Inferior Extremities, - 369 Nerves of the Loins, and Inferior Extremities, - 371 Sympathetic Nerves, - ib. Lumbar Nerves, - 372 Sacral Nerves, - 37“! Chap. VII. Observations on the Distribu- tion and Anastomoses of the Arteries, Veins, Lymphatic Vessels, and Nerves, 376 Observations on the Distribution and Anas- tomoses of the Arteries and Veins, 377 General Observations on the Deviations from the usual course of the Blood- vessels above described, 393 Observations on the Distribution of the Lymphatic Vessels, - 39‘1< Observations upon the Distribution of the Nerves, 393 PART XXIII. Chap. I. Of the Organic Derangements of the Spinal Marrow, - 405 Chap. II. Of the Organic Derangements of the Nerves, _ 40^CONTENTS. XK PART XXIV. Chap. 1. Of the State of the Ovaria, Ute- rine Tubes, and Uterus at the Ninth Month of Pregnancy, - Page 41 Of the State of the Ovana, - ilx State of the Uterine Tubes at the Ninth Month, - - 414 State of the Ligaments of the Womb at the Ninth Month, - ilr. State of the Womb at the Nintli . Month, - 415 Position of the Gravid y terns, 417 Membranes, or Seciindines at the Ninth Month, - 41S Liquor Amnii, - 419 ' Navel-String or Umbilical Cord, 420 Placenta or After-Birth, 421 Chap. II. Of the State of the Womb in the Earlier months of Pregnancy, - 423- Chap. III. Of the State of the Foetus in the Earlier Months of Pregnancy, - 426 Chap IV. Of the Foetus in Utero in the Ninth Month of Pregnancy, - 430 Of the Position of the Foetus in Utero-, ib. Peculiarities as to the Structure of the Foetus, - 431 Brain, Organs of the Senses, and Nerves of the Foetus in Utero, 434 Peculiarities of the Eye of the Foetus, ib. Peculiarities of the Ear of the Foetus, 435XXI CONTENTS. Of the Thoracic Viscera of the Foetus, Page 435 Mammae of the Foetus, 437 Abdomen and its Contents, ib. Assistant Chylopoetic Viscera, 43§ Organs of Urine and Generation of the Foetus, - 439 Chap. V. Observations upon the Ovaria, 441 Of the manner in which the Blood of the Foetus is circulated, - 442 Observations on the Lungs of the Foetus, 445 Of the Nutrition of the Foetus, 448 Observations on the Formation and Use of the Placenta, - 450 Observations upon the Womb, and the Liquor Amnii, - 451 PART XXV. Chai*. I. Of Malconformations, and Or- ganic Derangements of the Foetus, 455 Of the Imperfections in the Skeleton of the Foetus, - 456 Of Malconformation of the Brain and Organs ■ ^ of the Senses, - 458 Malconformation of the Heart, 459 Imperfections as to the Formation of the Alimentary Canal, - 462 ' Transpositions of the Viscera, - 468 Of the Diseases of Children at the Period of ^ Birth, . ih. Of Organic Diseases of tlie Laiymx, Trachea, and Lungs, - 4;0 \ \XXll CONTENTS. Of tlie Diseases of the Intestinal Canal, Page 470 Organic Derangements of the Liver, ib. Congenital Hernia of the Male, 471 Varieties of Congenital Hernia, 47G Of Congenital Hernia of the Female, ib. Shrivelled Foetuses, - 480 PART XXVI. Chap. I. Of the Organic Diseases of Preg nant Women, Of Ruptured Uterus, Extra-Uterine Foetuses, Chap. II. Of the Organic Derangements of the Placenta, - 488 Of Ossification in the Placenta, - ib. List of Authors on the Gravid Womb, 490 — Peculiarities of the Foetus, ib. Conclusion, - 493 Appendix, - 497 Explanation of the Plates of Urinary Concretions, together with Observa- tions on their Chemical Ingredients, by Mr John Daw, i . Explanation of Plate xxxvii. 499 Explanation of Plate xxxviii. 502 Explanation of Plate xxxviii A, 504 483 484 485OUTLINES ■ - ' OF THE ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BODY. CHAPTER I. OF THE ORGANS OF URINE. Sect. L OF THE KIDNEYS* r*HE kidneys are not contained within the ca- vity of the abdomen. They are situated at the sides of the spine, im- bedded in a large quantity of fat of a peculiar structure, which is lodged in a loose cellular tex- ture. The kidneys lie over the diaphragm, the large psocE and qiiadrati llimborum muscles, and over the 10th, 11th, and 12th ribs, and approach near- ly to the crista of the os ilium. On account of the difference in the bulk of the liver and Spleen, which are situated in the im* VOL. Ill, A2 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. mediate vicinity of the kidneys, the right kidney is placed rather lower than the left one. The kidneys are about five or six inches long, and in figure resemble the kidney bean, and with the concavity inwards, they are elongated from above downwards, convex outwardly, and broader in the upper end, to which a gland of a very particular nature, called the renal glands is con- nected, the concave basis of which is turned to- wards the kidney. The kidneys are retained in their situation by ligaments, which are formed by a reflection of the peritoneum. The peritoneum passing from the right kidney to the liver, is called the right liga- ment, and on the left side the peritoneum goes to the spleen, and is called the ligament of the lejt kidney. The section of the kidney exhibits two difler- ent substances, viz. a cortical vascular part, and the tubular uriniferous, and a series of conical shaped bodies, which hang into the infundibula or calices, and the cavity called pelvis. The cortical part is externally smooth,; of a pale red colour, and intimately connected to the proper membrane of the kidney ; is three or four lines in thickness ; and it sends in processes which fill up the intervals between the tubular uriniferous part. On tearing the cortical part, small grains are felt in it, or seen after throwing a penetrating injection into ihe renal arteries; thence called acini of the kidney *. * Vid. Plate xxxvi.OF THE KIDNEYS. s The tubular 'part is of a lighter colour than the cortical, more dense, composed of small tubes united to each other. The fasciculi of urinary tubes are collected in- to conical-shaped bodies, called papillce; upon the sides and extremities of which there are visible openings through which the urine distills*. A penetrating injection sometimes imitates the secretion of urine ; that is, it passes from the re- nal artery into the uriniferous tubes, which seems to prove a continuity of the vessels. The infundibula are less numerous than the papillae, as in some instances one infundibulum is common to two papillae. The smaller infundibula are united into three large trunks, which come from the upper, middle, and lower parts of the kidney, and these form the cavity of the kidney, called pelvis. The pelvis of the kidney, which is in its middle most capacious, is placed between the large bran- ches of the renal artery and vein. The membrane of the pelvis is white, firm, but loose, and is lined by a mucous membrane. Each kidney is supplied by one or more arte- ries, called renal, which are sent off at a right angle from the aorta, and are of great, size in proportion to the bulk of the kidneys. The renal veins lead into the vena cava inferior. A2 ^ Vide the magnified figure of one of the Papillae, Plate xxx\u.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, 4 The nerves of the kidneys are derived from the sympathetic nerves. >Renal Glands. The renal glands are of a yellow colour; some- what of a triangular form ; about two inches long ; and surrounded by cellular substance ; and adhere to the upper and fore parts of the kidneys. These glands are sometimes filled by a bilious- looking fluid. , Of iht Ureter^ The tube by which the urine flows from the kidney to the bladder of urine, is called ureter. The ureter arises fcj)m the inner and lower part of the pelvis or kidney, by its infundibulum. This tube is not cylindrical, but contracted where it passes over the brim of the pelvis, and between the coats of the bladdef. Generally there is only one to each kidney, but I have seen two on one side. The spermatic vessels cross over the ureters, opposite to the sacro-iliac symphysis; then the ureter crosses the common iliac artery and vein. At the base of the os sacrum, the ureters pass down- wards, forwards, and inwards, and towards the under surface of the bladder, where they cross the vasa deferentia, and then enter the bladder oh- liquely, between the muscular and mucous coats, and open by a narrow orifice at the posterior angle of the triangular space near the neck of the bladder.BLADDER OF URllJE. 5 ' • Ea:planation of Plate 36^4. > Fig. 1. represents a mould of the pelvis of the kidney, apd also points out the relative situation of the renal artery in re- spect to it. The figure immediately opposite to Hgure 1st, represents one of the papillae, much magnified. The other figures represent the ramifications of the renal ar- tery, of their natural size, and also much magnified. The oval-shaped bodies appended to the arteries, my Father discovered, to be composed solely of a plexus of very minuU; arteries. Sect. II, OF THE BLADDER OF URINE. The bladder of urine is a musculo-membra- nous organ, which occupies the anterior part of tl^e pelvis; it is placed immediately behind the ossa pubis, to which it is iconnecLed by cellpjar sub- stance and by ligaments. ' j - It is connected to the rectum in the .male, and womb in the female, by the reflected peritoneum. Of the Size and Figure of the Bladder of Urine* The size and figure of the bladder of urine are various at different periods of life, and in the dif- ferent sexes. AS6 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. The bladder of infants is proportionally larger than in adults. In consequence of continued distention, the blad- der acquires a larger size in women who lead a se- dentary life, or who live much in society, and are in the habit of retaining their urine for a long time: it becomes not only longer, but also much broader, and generally, as Celsus has observed, in- clines to one side. The figure of the bladder rvaries no less than its size. The bladder of the foetus is in figure like a pear, and its length is nearly three times greater than its transverse diameter, and a small part only of it is contained within the pelvis; for the fundus vesicae ascends very near to the umbilicus. The anterior part of it is not covered by the peritoneum ; so that at this period of life it is possible, when the bladder is. only half-full, to make an opening into it above the ossa pubis. The upper aperture of the pelvis of the foetus is so small, that the rectum distended by the me- conium, almost fills the whole pelvis. When a child is three or four years old, the pelvis has generally attained such a size as to admit the blad- der. Of the Figure of the Bladder in the Adult, The bladder of the adult is much shorter in proportion than in the foetus in its undistendedBLADDER OF THE ADULT. 7 state, and it is contained within the cavity of the pelvis, unless when much distended. Of the Bladder when Undistended. The bladder, when undistended, has somewhat of a triangular figure ; the fundus of it is direct- ed towards the urachus, is nearly on a level with the symphysis pubis, and rests upon the rectum of the'male, and vagina of the female. When the bladder is very much contracted, as in persons who have suffered a violent death, the figure of the bladder is somewhat rounded, and si- tuated lower down in the pelvis. In the contracted state of the bladder, the peri- toneum is loose between the bladder and rectum ; and in this state of the bladder, the rectum forms a considerable projection inwards upon the blad- der ; and in women, it is more obvious, as the va- gina adds to the bulk. Thus the bladder is di- vided into two lateral projections, in which calcu- li are frequently lodged; and in women, who have had several children, these lateral projections of the bladder become still more manifest. The cellular substance around the bladder is very loose, and especially that between it and the superior part of the symphysis pubis; whereas that between the rectum and bladder is more dense and less capable of dilatation. A 4OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 3 Of the Bladder of the Adults when Distended. In order to form an accurate opinion of the figure of the bladder, it is necessary to fix the attention, first, upon its anterior; then upon its posterior; and, lastly, upon its lateral por- tions. Upon the bladder being distended, that part of the body of it which lies upon the rectum, in the first place, changes its figure; the fundus ascends towards the umbilicus; the bladder almost fills the cavity of the pelvis; the anterior part of it presses upon the ossa pubis ; the lateral portions are rounded, and the posterior presses upon the rectum. Should the bladder he still further dilated, its body inclines over the symphysis pubis, and forms a manifest tumour above the pubes ; and in conse- quence of the cellular substance \vhich connects the bladder to the ossa pub^s, stretching it, it does not press much upon the rectum ; and in such a distended state, the inferior and anterior part of the bladder is in immediate contact with the abdominal muscles. The inferior part of the bladder is somewhat of an oval form; and the breadth from one side to the Qther is rather greater than from the fore to the back part. The urethra in the adult does not take its rise from the lowest part of the bladder: about the9 BLADDER OF THE ADULT. breadth of a finger, or a finger and a half, inter- venes between the beginning of the urethra and the lowest part of the bladder. In the healthy state, a space, equal to two or three inches, intervenes between that part of the bladder which is covered by the peritoneum, and the ossa pubis. In some cases, the bladder rises much higher. I visited a man, whose bladder was then as high as the navel; and I was informed, that a little before, it had been still higher, and that J2 lbs. of urine had been drawn off from it. It sometimes, though very rarely happens, that the peritoneum is attached obliquely in respect to the bladder. The posterior part is more expanded, and bound- ed by a kind of cul de sac, which covers part of the vesiculae seminales, and vasa deferentia ; and between the vesiculae, the bladder is in contact with the rectum, and connected to* it by loose cellular substance, in which many veins are lod- ged. The internal surface of the bladder is smooth, when that organ is distended and besmeared by mucus. There is a part of the inner surface of the blad- der, which has been called trigone; it is rather whiter than the rest of the bladder, and bounded before by^ the urethra, and laterally by the open- ings of the ureters.10 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. Of the Ligaments of the Bladder. There are two ligaments proper to the bladder, which extend from the symphysis pubis, to the upper part of the neck of the bladder, and to the prostate gland. The upper ligament of the bladder is composed of the umbilical arteries, urachus, and of the re- flected peritoneum. The urachus of the adult appears fibrous, of a white colour, and extends from the bladder to the umbilicus, where it is lost, becoming insensibly of a very small size. It is generally solid, sometimes hollow ; and it is said by Littre, that the urine sometimes passes through it, and escapes at the navel, which only happens when the neck of the bladder has been obstructed. Haller informs us, that the urachus, as it pas- ses along the umbilical chord, may be filled with mercury, for an inch and a-half. It then divides into a number of filaments,, which are lost upon the umbilical arteries. The urachus of quadrupeds passes along the chord to the allantois. The under ligament of the bladder of urine, ex- tends from each side of the neck of the bladder and prostate gland, and is fixed to the inner side of the symphysis pubis.COATS OF THE BLADDER. u Of the Coats of the Bladder of Urine. Four coats are commonly said to be proper to the bladder, viz. a membranous coat, which is de- rived from the peritoneum, a muscular coat, a cellular coat, and an internal mucous coat. The peritoneum covers only the upper and back part of the bladder of the adult. The external surface of this coat is besmeared by a quantity of a serous fluid. Its internal surface adheres to the muscular coat, by means of very loose cellular membranes. This cellular membrane has not the same thick- ness, or even appearance, in every part of the blad- der. In the anterior and lateral regions, the cel- lular substance is lax, and there is a considerable quantity of fat intermixed with it. Around the vesiculae seminales, we find a dense cellular substance of a whiter colour. ‘ The cellular substance has been stated to add considerably to the strength of the bladder; for when it is dissected off, the internal coat is pro- truded betwixt the muscular fibres. The muscular fibres of the bladder, in the heal- thy state, are of a pale colour, and but of a small size, and disposed in fasciculi, which cross each other in every possible direction, and completely surround the bladder. Some of these muscular fasciculi follow a longi-12 OUTLINES OF ANATOMy. tudinal direction, a few a circular, and most of them an oblique course. The muscular fibres of the bladder of the foetus are proportionally thicker than those of the adult. The bladder of a child is morp irritable and more powerful ; and the urine can then be dis- charged to a greater distance than in advanced life. The longitudinal fibres form the external stratum. The oblique and circular fibres are placed be- neath the longitudinal ; but these fibres are so much intermixed with the other fibrps of the blad- der, as to render it very difficult to follow out any Onp packet of fibres. Some of the muscular fasciculi of the bladder, in some instances, contract to a great degree, so that the bladder is divided, like a sand-glass, iptp two cavities. The cellular coat of the bladder, is of a white colour, and readily dilated. The innermost coat of the bladder, when distend- ed, is perfectly smootfi, and is besmeared .by a quantity of mucus. The follicles which secrete the mucus haye beep said to be apparent in the catarrhus of the bladder; but I must confess that I never have been able to observe them. The urine is expelled by the joint contraction of the detrusor iirinae, and the muscles of respira- tion ; the muscular fibres around the neck of the bladder being at the same instant relaxed.Urethra of the male. 1-3 Sect. IIL OF THE URETHRA. '1'here is a great dift'erence as to the length of the male and fenlale urethra. Of the Urethra of the Male. The urethra extends from the bladder to the ex- tremity of the penis *, it is about nine inches long ^ dilatable ; not of an uniform diameter; and sur- rounded in part by a plexus of veins *, and lined by a very dilatable mucous membrane ; in the greater part of which there are longitudinal folds, and upon which a considerable quantity of mucus is poured by forty or fifty orifices, which open up- on its surface from behind forwards, but which are not connected with any distinct glandular appara- tus. The urethra is very elastic, admitting at one nroment a large bougie to be passed, and then con- tracting upon a thread. This canal does not de- scribe a straight course ; it passes downwards and forwards for about an inch, where it is surround- ed by the prostate gland •, it then passes under the symphysis pubis, and ascends between the crura pe- nis, and is connected to the rectum. This portion, which extends between the prostate gland, and bulb of the urethra, is about an inch long, and has beett named the membranous part of the urethra, being covered by a membrane, a dense cellular substance, and a thin stratum of muscular fibres,OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 14 which Mr Wilson has described, and which arise by a double tendon from the arch of the pubes, and which unite under this part of the canal*. The urethra is then inclosed in its corpus spon- giosum, which is made up of a plexus of blood- vessels. This spongy substance, which is covered by the same cellular sheath as the corpora cavernosa pe- nis, begins in the form of a conical-shaped process, the apex of which passes oblique!)' downwards in the direction of the perineum between the crur^ penis, and it is covered below and at its sides by the accelerator urinae ; and it is connected to the arch of the pubes by a strong triangular-shaped ligament. The urethra is then firmly fixed to the corpora cavernosa, along which it passes ; and having pas- sed through the glans, it terminates in a verti- cal aperture. The diameter of the urethra is by no means uni- form ; it is largest where it passes through the pros- tate gland, the bulb of the urethra, and the glans. Mr Home has been at great pains in taking moulds of the male urethra, and has published the following measurements f. * Vide Meclico-Chirurg. Transact, of London, vol. i. t To determine with precision the length as well as width of the urethra, exact casts of it were taken in wax, stretching it in the dead body as much as it would readily bear; in this way a bougie was formed of the size of the urethra The subjects from which these casts were taken were of different ages, one IOF THE CLANS PENIS. 15 Of the Gians Penis *. The glans penis is a conical-shaped body, and surrounded by a prominent margin called the corona glandis. was between 70 and 80, the other 30. In both of them tlie penis was of a small size, and the ex;ternal orifice at tlie glans unusually small in the collapsed state. The length of tlie canal corresponded exactly in Inches. both casts. From the external orifice'to the neck of the bladder, was - - - - - - 9t From the external orifice to the bulb of the urethra, 7 The membranous part, extending from tlie bulb to the prostate gland, - - - - ■ The canal passing over the prostate gland, - 5 The width of the urethra varies in different parts of the ca- nal, and is every where much larger than had been supposed, exceeding the size of the largest bougie in use in a very great degree. It will make the diameters of the urethra in its seve- ral parts more clearly understood to contrast them witli those of bougies. Inches. The diameter of a common sized bougie, •i^o- Of the largest sized bougie in use, - * - The diameters of the casts of the Urethra, in different parts. At ^ of an inch from the extei nal orifice. At 4t^ inches from the external orifice. At tlie bulb of the urethra, 7 inches from the orifice. Years old, 80. so. oil To To t 1 1 TUT * The same muscles expel the urine and semen, _^and there- fore I have described them under the Jiead of the Male Or- gans of Generation. The Ctuml in u relaxed stutc is in common about 8^ inches lon^.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 10 The glans is made up chiefly of a plexus of small convoluted veins, which communicate with the cor- pus spongiosum urethrae, and is^covered by a very fine and vascular skin, upon which there are a number of villi. The glans is besmeared by a fluid (said to be sebaceous) which is described by Morgagni f and Haller, as being derived from hard white small bodies, situated about the corona glandis, called glamlula: odorjfene. The glans is covered by the skifi which is fe- flected from the glans, so that it covers the glans when the penis is relaxed, and hence has been called prepuce ; which prepuce is fixed below to the glans by means of a fraenum, which prevents the over-retraction of the glans. The penis is supplied with blood ftom the ar- teriae pudendae •, and the veins of the penis unite, and form a large venous trunk, which passes in- to a plexus of veins, which lie in the vicinity of the prostate gland. In the membranous part, directly beyond tlie bulb, 7A inches from the orifice In the membranous portion near to the prostate gland, 8 A inches from the orifice. Where the membranous part terminates, and the prostate gland begins, 8 A inches from tlie orifice. In the middle space of the prostate gland, 8f inches from the orificei - _ - - - At the neck of the bladder, 9 inches from the orifice • In the man 30 years of age there had been a stricture at this paru Tl a 9 7 •15 "35 7 •25 1 I iTo I o -35 0 8 •35 TTS t Vid. his Adversaria,17 OF THE URINE. Sect. V* OF THE URINE. Healthy urine is a transparent fluid, of a light amber colour, which emits a peculiar odour, has a slightly bitter taste, and the specific gravity of it varies, according to Cruickshanks, from 1.005 to 1.033. The odour of urine that has been kept for two or three days, is distinctly alkaline. The state of the urine depends much upon the state of the other secretions, particularly upon the quantity of sweat and perspiration; hence the quantity of the urine is various at different seasons of the year. The state of the urine is modified by the age of the individual. The urine of a child, whose bones are not com- pletely ossified, contains no phosphoric acid, but a large excess of benzoic acid. The urine of the old, is highly charged with the earthy phosphates, with the uric acid, and mucilage. Different kinds of food bring about a change in the urine, particularly when the di- gestive organs are weak. Various vegetable substances, taken into the sto- ijiach, communicate their flavour and colour to the urine : rhubarb makes urine of a deep yellow co- lour ; madder renders it red j and indigo commu- nicates a blue tinge. VOL. III. B18 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, Asparagus, garlic, onions, and turpentine, give to the urine a peculiar smell. Chemical Analysis of Urine: The urine contains the following substances : 1. Water. 2. Acetic acid. 3. Phosphate of lime. 4. Phosphate of magnesia. 5. Carbonic acid. 5. Carbonate of lime. 7* Uric acid. 8. Rosacic acid. 9. Benzoic acid. 10. Albumen. 11. Urea. 12 Resin. 13. Muriate of soda. 14. Phosphate of soda. 15. Phosphate of ammonia-. 16. Muriate of ammonia. 17. Sulphur. Healthy urine containsalso occasionally other sub- stances. Very often muriate of potash may be distin- guished among the crystals, which form during its evaporation.' The presence of this salt may always be detected, by dropping cautiously some tartaric acid into urine. If it contains muriate of potash.ANALYSIS OF URINE. 19 there will precipitate a little tartar, which may ea- sily be recognixed by its properties *. Urine sometimes also contains sulphate of lime f. Urine rapidly putrefies, and mucilaginous flakes are deposited ; the phosphoric acid is’ saturated with ammonia, and the phosphate of lime is precipita- t^d. ,. , I ;< 1 . II .... When the urine ,has putrefied, which is owing to the action of the jelly on urea, it consists chiefly of the following ingredients: 1. Ammonia. > 2. Carbonate of ammonia. 8. Phosphate of ammonia. 4. Phosphate of magnesia and ammonia. 5. Urate of ammonia. 6. Acetate of ammonia. 7. Benzoate of ammonia. 8. Muriate of ammonia. 9. Muriate of soda, beside precipitated jelly and phosphate of lime B2 * Croickshanks, Phil. Mag. vol. ii. p. 241. 'I* Fourcroy, Ann. de Chim. tom. vii. p. 183 J Ann. de Chim. tom. 31. p. 70.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. «0 ■ Authors on the Urinary OtganSy and Chemical Analysis of Urine. DeschamP; in his Treatise on Lithotomy* Dr Camper, Demonst. Anat. Patholog. Lib. ii.—1762. Dr Parsons, on the Bladder. Mr E. Home, in his books on Strictures of the Urethra^ and the Diseases of the Prostate Gland. Mr John Hunter's work on Lues Venerea. ScHEELE, vol. i. Dr Pearson, Lond. Phil. Trans. ^ Fourcroy and Vauquelin, Syst de Con. Chim. Dr Wollaston, Lond. Phil. Trans, for 1797. Proust, Ann. de Chim. tom. xxxi. p. 66. Thenard, Ann. de Chim. tom. lix. p. 269- Dr Eoan, Phil. Magaz, vol. xxiii. p. 29®.PART XVII.'■ir'. »■ I v*f i 4 t:j*j KweniM tfir*r • _ ■ . • ■ ' - --» !^. :. / . j < ■ ■1 ^ _ 1» •. ■• '•— - -•««•■ (ttfeatsst. - *'■*» *■. . \v ^ ,% ♦ >fl 7 't/'.l’ .T77Z THA.M -23 UJR.INARY CONCRETIONS. OF URINARY CONCRETIONS, AND THE OR- GANIC DEIIANGEMENTS OF THE URINA- RY ORGANS. CHAPTER I. OF URINARY CALCULI, OR URINARY CONCRETIONS. TThe word calculus is by no means applicable to those concretions which are occasionally formed in the urinary passages. Urinary calculi, with the exception of those con- sisting of oxalate of lime and silica, are similar to the constituent parts of the urine, and are merely concretions. These concretions are different ih size, colour^ figure, consistence, weight, and in their chemical ingredients. Urinary concretions may occur in any part of the uriniferous canals, or in any place into which the urine may be effused. B4OUTLINES'of ANx»lTOMY. The form and size of urinary concretions, gene- rally depend upon the shape of the cavities con- taining them ; hence those found vi'ithin the pelvis of the kidney, sometimes assume an arborescent ap- pearance, having taken a mould of the pelvis, and infundibula of the kidney •, and hence calculi of the bladder are generally of a round or oval figure. There is generally only one calculus within the bladder, and it is of an oval form, and smooth on its surface. The average weight of eighty calculi in the Museum of the University, is between two and three ounces; but sometimes they attain a much larger size and weight,,ten, twelve, twenty, thirty ounces, or even more. When there are two or more concretions within the bladder, they are generally of a small size, of a yellow or brown colour, and they impress each other more or less, and sometimes to such a de- gree, as to resemble a cup and ball. The state of the surface of the calculus, therefore, merits attention, as we thus distinguish whether there is only one or more calculi within the bladder of urine. The dark-coloured moriform calculi are in ge- neral smallest, but are, in proportion to their bulk, the heaviest; whereas those of a white colour, ge- nerally acquire a larger size*. * In the collection of urinary concretions, which Mr Four- CROY shewed me, there was a much greater proportion of large white concretions, than in any of the Museums of Britain, I have had an opportunity of examining.25 URINARY CONCRETIONS. The greater number of urinary concretions, when divided, exhibit a laniellated structure, and the constituent lamellae are generally different in colour, consistence, density, and chemical com- position ; the external lamellae being often thick- est, porous, and of a white colour. Very few concretions are formed upon an extra- neous body. In the central part of many of them, there are evidently a number of small crystals, glued together by animal matter. It sometimes happens, that one concretion is moveable within another, which is owing to the effusion of blood, occasioned by the irritation of the calculus, which blood shrinking, the smaller calculus is moveable within the larger. As these concretions are formed upon the prin- ciple of crystallization, a urinary concretion may be formed, wherever there is any nucleus to attract the salts of the urine. Urinary concretions may be divided into five classes. The first includes those composed of uric acid, and of urate of ammonia. Such concretions are of a brown or yellow colour, of a lamellar and radiated texture; and are soluble in alkalies. The precipitation is accomplished by acids. The precipitate is soluble in nitric acid; the solution i$ of a pink colour, and tinges the skin red. The second class includes such, as consist of the phosphate of lime, and the phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, which are soluble in acids. Those25 OUTLINES or ANATOMY. composed of the phosphate of lime, resemble chalk ; stain the fingers or cloth; are easily broken; are to the taste insipid ; and insoluble in water, but soluble in nitric or muriatic acids, from which the earth may be precipitated by ammonia or fix- ed alkalies. The calculi composed of phosphate of magne- sia and ammonia, are of a brilliant white ajjpear- ance ; “consist of lamellar crystals ; and their cry- stals assume a prismatic form. These have a sweet- ish taste ; and are very soluble in diluted acids. The thii'd class includes those consisting of the oxalate of lime, and silica; and which are scarce- ly soluble in acids, or in alkalies. Calculi composed of the oxalate of lime, are of a dark chocolate colour ; very heavy ; very hard ; generally rough on their surface ; sometimes resem- bling a mulberry. They seldom or never attain a large sire ; are insoluble in alkalies ; and are very slowly dissolved in diluted acids; and when burnt, a quantity of pure lime, equal to one-third of the calculus, is left. The fourth class contains concretions, which contain a proportion of muriate of ammonia. Such calculi, when^treated with water, are in part dissolved, and the remains consist of pure uric acid. The matter dissolved is composed of urea, and partly of muriate of ammonia. The Jifth class includes those calculi which are composed of cistic oxide. They are white, dense and brittle. 1. This substance dissolves, and com-27 URINARY CONCRETIONS. bmes With acids and alkalies, and crystallizes with both. 2. It is precipitated from nitric acid by al- kohol. 3. It does not affect the colour of vege- table blues. 4. It is insoluble in water, alkohol and ether Besides the above substances, urea and animal matter enter into the composition of urinary cal- culi ; the latter of which cements together the other ingredients. There are very few urinary concretions which consist of only one ingredient. Calculi sometimes fall to pieces within the uri- nary organs, where no particular remedy has been used. Lastly, persons of all ages are afflicted by this disease, though not equally so; it is but rare be- fore the third or fourth years of life; very fre- quent, according to the report of Mr Sancerotte, between the sixth and twelfth years, and also in old age. Males are much more frequently attacked by the disease than females. According to the statement of the above author, of 1600 patients afflicted by calculus, only 65 were females, which may be readily explained from the difference in the length and diameter of the male and female urethra. It may not be improper to add, that of 150 calculi found in the bladder, and a..alysed by . I ., . . t • • t * Alemani lately has discovered a veiy small proportion of the phosphate of iron in a urinary concretion. Vid. Ann. dc Chim. tom. Ixv. p. 222.28 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, Mr Brande, the following was the composi- tion : composed'of uric acid. 45 uric acid, with a small relative proportion of the phosphates. 66 the phosphates, with a small proportion of uric acid. 12 the phosphates entirely. 5 uric acid, with the phosphates, and nuclei of oxalate of lime. 6 chiefly oxalate of lime. J50*. For an account of the changes which the urine undergoes in different diseases, the reader is refer- red to the following authors : CnuiCKSHANKS, in the 2d edition of Dr Rollo’s book on Diabetes. Fourcroy and Vauquelin’s Experiments on the Urine of the Jaundiced, Philos. Magaz. vol. xxiii. p. 331. They found a substance in the urine analogous, to the yellqw acid which is formed by the action of the nitric acid on muscular fibre. Berthollet, on the Urine of Gouty Persons, Journal de Phys. tom. xxviii. p. 275. Caballe’s, Analysis of Diabetic Urine, Ann. de Chim. tom. Iv. p. 64.. The urine of persons affected by diabetes, has also been ex- amined by Nicolas, Annal. de Chim. tom. xliv. p. 32.; and by Thenard and Duputren, Annal. de Chim. tom. lix. p. 41. Also Dr W. Henry's Analysis of Diabetic Urine, Medico Chirurg. Trans, of London, vol. ii. * Philos. Mag. vol. xxxii, p. l67.S9 DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY. CHAPTER IL ON THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE URINARY ORGANS. Sect. I. ' OF THE ORGANIC DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY. rHE secretion of urine is sometimes \vholly or partially interrupted, constituting the disease called ischuria renalis *. The kidneys are sometimes inflamed. I have seen the smaller branches of the renal artery,* distended with blood in persons who have died with the symptoms of diabetes; but this mor- bid appearance is by no means constant. Suppuration is not an uncommon consequence of inflammation of the kidney, when calculi have been lodged within the pelvis of that organ ; and we also sometimes meet with the scrofulous sup- puration of that organ. Urinary concretions have sometimes w^orked their way through fistulous orifices, the conse- quence of suppuration of the kidney. * Vid. Etmdller, de Morb. intern. Cur. cap. 12. Fsrnell, Laesa Urinae Secretione, p. 314.30 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, In some instances, one kidney shrinks, whilst the Other is much enlarged. When calculi have been lodged for some time within the ureters, the kidney in some instances at- tains an extraordinary bulk, the papillae are'oblite- rated, and it is converted into a number of cysts, which are filled by fetid urine, pus, and small cal- culi. The kidneys have been in some rare cases re- duced to a state of cartilage. Gangrene of the kidneys, sometimes, though rarely, occurs. Hydatids have frequently been found within the kidney, or attached to its surface, and some- times the greater share of both kidneys has been converted into a cluster of hydatids. The kidney very rarely becomes scirrhous; When reduced to that morbid state, it sometimes at- tains a large size. Dropsy of the kidney is a disease which is by no means rare, and the water is collected either within the substance of the kidney, or within its capsule. Lieutaud has remarked, that the kidneys have sometimes been converted into an earthy substance, and sometimes into bone. The tunica adiposa of the kidneys has sometimes been converted into a steatomatous substance. Organic derangements of the renal capsules are very rare. Abscesses have occasionally been found within them \ and Lieutaud has described31 DISEASES OF THE URETERS. small granules of stone as being found within them, and sometimes they have been converted into car- tilage. Sect. II. ^ I ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE URETERS. The ureters have sometimes been much extend- ed, in consequence of calculi lodged within them, and impeding the flow of urine into the bladder; or when the neck of the bladder is obstructed, I have seen them nearly as large as the intestinum ileum. Pus and hydatids have been occasionally found within the ureters. The ureters have been occasionally ruptured. The ureters are frequently spasmodically con- tracted. In a few cases, the coats of the ureters have at- tained an unnatural thickness. Sect. III. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OP THE BLAD- DER. The muscular fibres of the bladder of urine sometimes becpme paralytic or spasmodically af-OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 52 fected ;'and these affections, which are often limit* cd to the neck of the bladder^ are either idiopa- thic or symptomatic. The bladder is also subject to inflammation, and the inflammation is sometimes limited solely to the neck of the bkdder, arid sometimes to the internal coat of that organ. The inrierrriost coat of the bladder, being a rtii- cous membrane, is subject to all the organic de- rangements of membranes of that description. Polypi, similar to those of other mucous mem- branes *, sometimes grow from the internal coat of the bladder. Fungous excrescences sometimes are found con- nected to the internal coat of the bladder, which are often encrusted by calculous matter. Scirrhous tumours are sometimes found withirl the bladder; these tumours are of different sizes. The bladder has sometimes almost entirely fil- led, by a substance not unlike the brain in its con- .^istence. The veins of the internal chat of the bladder, sometimes become varicose. The bladder sometimes forms part of the con- tents of a hernial sab. I have described a case f, in which the bladder has been displaced, in consequence of a prociden- tia of the rectum, and prolapsus uteri. * Vid. the Description of Polypi, connected with the mu- cous membrane of the stomach and intestines. + Vid, Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomacli, &c. p. 52S<DISEASES OF THE BLADDER, 33 The bladder has sometimes been enormously distended. I have seen a case, in which the bladder contained 10 lbs. of urine. The bladder is, on the other hand, occasionally very much contracted. This sometimes happens from the inordinate contraction of the muscles of the bladder, as in persons who have been killed by hanging, but more frequently it is the effect of dis- ease, and owing to the great thickness of the coats of the bladder, especially of the muscular coats, w'hich become not only thicker, but also redder than in the healthy state. The bladder has on some occasions been con- tracted in its middle, so as to resemble an hour- glass, in consequence of the irritation of a calculus of the bladder. The bladder has sometimes been divided into i three distinct compartments. Cysts, which communicate by a narrow neck with the general cavity of the bladder, have some- times been observed, and such cysts are generally of different sizes, and filled by calculi. . The coats of the bladder have sometimes been ruptured in consequence of ulceration. Rupture of the bladder also sometimes takes place from inordinate distention. Gangrene of the bladder has been described. The rectum sometimes communicates with the bladder of urine, and air is discharged with the urine. Worms have also been discharged along with the urine VOL. in. COUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 34, Lastly, Hydatids have been discharged along with the urine, or have been found after death with- in the pelvis of the kidney or bladder of urine. Sect. IV. : ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE URETHRA. Inflammation of the internal membrane of the urethra is very common, which has sometimes been followed by a contraction or stricture of the urethra, especially in the membranous part of it, or two or three inches from the glans, which arc naturally the narrow'est parts of that canal. There are different kinds of stricture of the urethra. 1. The sides of the urethra approximate each other for the space of an inch, or only half an inch ; and this is attended by the obliteration of the corpora spongiosa urethrtc ; and the urethra, where it is diseased, loses its contractile power. 2. There is a kind of stricture occasioned by ' a morbid growth or ridge from the sides of the urethra, which diminishes to a greater or less ex- tent the diameter of that canal, which is in some cases very narrow •, hence called bride by the French; and sometimes this kind of stricture di- vides into branches, as in Plate xl.DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 35'. 3. In some rare cases, the greater part of the urethra has been constricted, as when the urine does not flow through it, but through an artificial opening in the bladder. 4. Stricture of the urethra sometimes originates from the imperfect formation of that canal. The urethra behind the stricture is much enlar- ged, and sometimes it gives way, and the urine is discharged at a fistulous orifice in the perineum. Ej:planatio)i of Plate- 4t0th. This plate was copied from a specimen of an unusual variety of stricture, which was followed by a fistula in perineo. . The urethra between the stricture and the bladder, was somewhat enlarged, as also that portion between the stric- ture and the glans, so that the urethra represents two cones, with their apices joined at the stricture. The coats of tlie bladder were also somewhat thick- ened. r A probe has been inserted into the fistula.OUTLINES OF .ANATOMY. 36 Authors on the Organic Tierangements the Uri- nary Organs. Arnaud, Sur le Maladies dc 1’ Urethre, Amst. 1?64» Morgagni, Epist. xlii. art. xvi, xlii, and xxxiii. Stoll, Rat. Med. i. l6S. Bertrandi, Traite des Operat. Wiseman's Surgery. Mr Samuel Sharp's Critical Inquiry. Mr Broomfteld’s Works. Daran, on tlie Urethra. Morgagni, Epist. xli. Desault and Chopart, ' Mr J. Hunter, on Lues Venerea. Mr E. Home, on Strictures of th^ Urethra. Mr Whately, on Strictures of the Urethra. , Mr Andrew’s, on Strictures of the Urethra and Oesophagus. Mr E. Home, on the Diseases of the Prostate Gland. Dr Baillie’s Morbid Anatomy. Mr Jesse Foot, on the Management and Cure of Strictures. Mr Charles Bell's Letters on the Diseases of the Urethra. Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol, i. p. 416. Walter's Catalogue. Edinburgh Medical and Physical Journal, vol. vi. Lawrence, Medico-Chirurg. Trans, vol. ii.PART XVIII.«n V .. ^ ■ *''*'^" "*' ■ as^ii^w'' i^ *c. . ,•...#.: •^{Tweic r % *4* -*. ' I^rrrtu- a ' “‘‘"eis^ •-*•#'r*it r.- .i? • • •>' ^ ■ ■"■ ’■ ‘•■^> -.v^^ ‘' * I * I • * <* ■ ■* •/■'•. it, > k&' __. - l ■U'^’ r \.- j:.. #Mlf >»4;^ V . .invx T#j/ *f 'J.S- J . • ~A *r ^ K . 'A ^^4' vh:. \i.4» - . T . T- . /'-.I, : ■ W4S.A .<*.*• \>:i r -i*- "} •': ■W^MM -^»- - r f ■’'■"s*- * I- fr^T^ ite ^ -■• 2 #» »■ •* '' ‘\i| • ' ' . ""1 % Ci. " -* • , r ■ » i &.1 ■ l' si* ■ 441% ,»f.39 ©BSERVATIONS ON GENERATION. i.- . tl CHAPTER I. ON THE ORGANS OF GENERATION OF THE MALE. Sect. I. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON GENERATION. (generation |is one of the greatest mysteries in the animal economy. There is much variety a? to the means by which generation takes place in the vegetable and animal kingdoms. In both, the young is attached by some means to the parent, and the separation of the one from the other, is the birth. The structure of the organs of generation is much diversified in animals. I. The most simple state of generation has been called the gemmiparouSy by which is understood the generation by shoots, as in trees, and in some of the mollusca. C4,40 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. ^ 3. Some worms are multiplied by being divided^ as polypi, &c.; in these, there is no distinction of sexes, no copulation. 3. In some instances, both sexes are united in the same individual, as in the hermaphrodite, and in monoecious plants; but in others, though each individual possesses the parts of both sexes, yet the assistance of another individual, which it fe- cundates, or by which it is fecundated, is ne- cessary, as in many worms and snails. 4. In the higher orders of animals, the sexes are distinct^ and certain organs of the male are ap- propriated to the formation of a fecundating liquor, and there also are certain organs of the female which may be fecundated. Fecundation is accomplished by the deposition of the male semen, in or about the germ. In many instances the semen is applied to the ova only after they have been deposited, as in many fishes, and frogs. In the class Mammalia, the semen is introduced by the penis into the vagina during copulation; thus the ova are fecundated within the body of the female, and the foetus is not discharged until it is capable of independent existence. The effect of copulation is very different in differ- ent classes of animals. In general, only one preg- nancy is the result; but in some'animals, as in do- mestic fowls, the influence of a single copulation extends to all the eggs the hen lays in eight or ten successive days \ and it has been stated, thatOBSERVATIONS ON GENERATION. 41 the influence of one copulation extends in the plant-louse, (the aphis,) to four or five genera- tions. The germ, which is saparated, is involved in an organized mass, to which it is connected by blood- vessels, by which it is nourished. Animals are oviparous, ovo-viviparous, or vivi- parous. Birds are ovipai'ous. The chick is detached, and involved in its membranes, by the vessels of which it is nourished. The ovum of the viper is retained within the body of the mother, until the contained germ be hatched ; the viper is hence ovo-viviparous. In all the class mammalia, the young is at- tached to the internal surface of the uterus of the mother, and by her juices it is nourished for a cer- tain time, and is not born until it be capable of an independent existence. All this class is there- fore viviparous. The organs of generation of the human body are of a complicated structure. It is proposed to describe, in the Jirst place, the structure of the testes by which the semen is pre- pared, and the tubes connected with it, by which it is carried to certain receptacles, called vesicula: seminaks ; and, in the next place, The structure of the prostate gland, which prepares a fluid which is mixed with the semen ; and in the third place, The structure of the organs of copulation, bv42 'OUTLINES OF ANATOMr.- • * hich the semen is introduced within the vagirti of the female. The female organs consist of the ovaria or tes- tes muliebres, from which the rudiment is derived, and of canals through which this passes to the ute- rus of the mother, within which the young is retain- ed and nourished for a certain time, and afterwards expelled ; and of a vagina or canal designed for the reception of the male penis, and for giving passage to the contents of the uterus. Sect. IT. OF THE SITUATION, AND RELATIVE CONNECTION, OF THE MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. f - Before proceeding to describe in detail the orr gans of generation, it may not be improper to make mention of their relative situation and con- nection, which only can be well seen by removing one of the ossa ilia, so as to give a lateral view of jhe pelvis. The cavity of the pelvis is occupied chiefly by the bladder of urine and the rectum. The peritoneum may be traced from the abdo- minal muscles, which it lines upon the upper and back part of the bladder of urine, from which it is reflected upon the rectum, and then to the os sacrum. The neck of the bladder is seen surrounded by a thick substance, the ‘prostate gland, which ad-MALE ORGANS OF. GENERATION. 43. heres intimately to the symphysis pubis.- The ure- thra having emerged from the prostate gland, pas- ses downwards and forwards, and the vesicula; se>- minales lie between the rectum and bladder,.enve- loped in a quantity of cellular substance. ' Sect. III. J -• ■ i. " pF THE ORGANS BY WHICH THE SEMEN IS PRE- PARED. Of the Testes. , . The testes, before puberty, are of a small size. There is frequently a slight difference in the size of the testes of the opposite sides. The testes are placed obliquely, with one end upwards and forwards, and the other downwards and backwards j and are fixed to the body by means of the spermatic cord, which is attached to the superior part of the gland. ' The testes are somewhat of an oval form, flatten- ed at the sides. There is a thin and elongated body, called from its situation epididymis, which passes along the ou- ter and back part of the testis. The epididymis is somewhat larger at its upper and lower part, where it is fixed to the body of the testes; hence anatomists describe the globus major, or head of the epididymis, and globus minor, or lower part of it. ' ■OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. There is a small tube which arises from the lower part of the epididymis after it has been re- flected, through which the semen passes, which has been called the vas dejerens. The testes are contained in a sort of bag, called scrotum^ covered by scattered hairs ; the skin of which is browner ; more largely supplied with sebaceous glands ; and possesses a larger share of contractile power than in any other part of the The scrotum is lined by cellular substance, which has somewhat of a pale red colour, from the number of blood-vessels distributed upon it, and which has been by some anatomists described as a muscle, under the name dartos; but even in the most robust subjects, the muscular fibres arc not visible. . There is very little fat contained within the ■ scrotum, excepting near to the under abdominal aperture ; because the pressure or unnatural accu- mulation of fat might have injured the structure or function of the testes. The scrotum is divided into two sacs by a par- tition, which is composed of cellular substance; opposite to which there is a ridge in the spine of the scrotum. The spermatic cord is also covered by a sheath of peritoneum and fine cellular membrane, which in hernias sometimes attains a considerable thickness • This covering of the cord has been fully described by Dr Peter Camm;r in the Explanation of his Plates m Hen^ia,45 COATS OF THE TESTICLE. and by a muscle called cremaster^ which arises from the internal oblique and transverse muscles of the abdomen, and distributes its fibres upon the external coat of the testicle, called tunica mginalis. By means of this muscle, the testicles are drawn upwards during coition, and also somewhat com- pressed. There are two coats proper to the testicle ; the external, called tunica vaginalis, is a prolongation of the peritoneum, which forms a shut sac, and co- vers the testicle, as the pericardium covers the heart, but not in quadrupeds-j*, and is reflected over the testis, covering the epididymis, and part of the spermatic vessels, to which it closely ad- heres f. Within the vaginal coat, there is a much whiter coat; hence named tunica albuginea, which very closely adheres to the body of the testicle, and which is perforated at its posterior part by the se- minal tubes and blood-vessels of the testes. This coat is thick, and, in the healthy state, possesses but a small share of elasticity. Upon cutting through the tunica albuginea, the brown-coloured glandular part of the testes which is of a pulpy consistence, presents itself. It may be drawn out into threads. wliich were published by Dr Scemmerino ; hence this sheath lias sometimes been called s fascia. f Vid, Monro, Medical Essays, vol. v. art. 20.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY^ 46 The glandular part of the testicle is partially divided into lobes or parts, by a number of pro- cesses from the tunica albuginea testis, called the septula testis. 0/ the Seminiferous Tubes of the Testicle. Upon steeping the testicle for some time in wa- ter, It may be resolved into a great number of small convoluted threads or tubes, which, accord- ing to my Father, do not exceed the part of an inch in diameter ; and when filled with mer- cury, the yt-3^ part of an inch. These seminife- rous tubes may be filled by mercury, their coats being of considerable strength ; and upon these, the smaller ramifications of the spermatic arteries are distributed. The convoluted seminiferous tubes are cylinders, and do not join into trunks like the ducts of other glands, but pass into the rete testis at the back of the testis, where the epididymis is joined to it. My Father has calculated, that the testis consists of 62.500 tubes, supposing each to be one inch long ; and that if the tubes were united, they would be 5208 feet and 4 inches long*. * “ Utveropleniorem ctclarioremductuumtestis seminiferorum conspcctum exhibcamusj eorum diametrum, numerum, uniuscu- jusque dein longitudinem, et hinc flexuum numerum quern ab origine ad rctc testis usque perficiunt, ad calculum revocare liceat. Non difficilliraum inveni ductiium qui mercurio turgebant dia-TUBES OF THE TESTICLE. 4? . The semen passes from the body of the testicle to the epididymis by twelve or fourteen tubes, which have been called vasa efferentia. metrum accaratissime dimetiri, quum in rnultis locis ductus tres vel quatuor contigiii slnt, et post accuratissi^as mensurationes, plus quam simplici vice repetitas, eos ad T4tr polHcis ffistimo. Cum vero mercurius ad ductuum originem non refluvisset^ ni, quantum mercurii pondus eos distraxerat, notum esset, calculum ex eorum diametro cum testis mole collata instituere ineptum esset. Ductus igitur octo vel decern ex testiculo tccenti, mer- curio non repleto, explicui, ad latera inter se composui, et, capta mensura, uniuscujusque diameter ad pollicis circiter tantum ascendit; unde mercurii infusionem ductuum diametrum ad ra- tioneml0:6 i. e. 5: 3 adauxisse apparuit. Testiculum dein, tunica albuginea abscissa, in aquam immersum, cylindro I pol- licis lato et pollicem alto aequalem notavi; et quoniam inter se cylindrorum lumina sunt, ut diametroinim quadrata, testis ex 62,500 ductibus constabit, quorum singuli ]}ollicis longitudine sunt; unde, si omnes sibi invicem in unum ductum annectereii- tur, 62,500 pollices, i. e. 5208 pedes et pollices 4- longitudine expleret. “ Antea testem in multos ductmun fasciculus dividi, qui coni- cae quasi figuras sunt, et conorum apices reti testis affigi ebser- 'vavimus. Unicum fasciculum, quantum fieri potuit, accuiate exsecui, (tubulorum enim fascicules ad origines suas paulkdum implicari supra notavimus,) ponderavi, et testis totius,^ pon- dere aequalem comperi. Hinc igitur, si unusquisque fasciculus unum tantum ductum contineret, ejus longitude pedes 34 et pollices 8 excederet; accuratissime vero teste, mcrcurio injecto, explorato, omnes tales lasciculos binos ductus tcnerc, qui ad rete testis in unum ductum rectum conjunguntur, animadverti. Unde uniuscujusque longitudo pedes 17 et pollices 4 superabit. Hactenus ai'teriarum, venarum, nervorum, &c. ramidos, qui in- tra testem scatent, in rationem non adduximus; sed in cada- Yoribus, testis tertiam partenj ad plurimiim \'ix occupant; qu^’ OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 48 The epididymis is in part composed of the vasa efferentia, and of a single convoluted seminife- rous tube. Each vas efferens is convoluted into a conical- shaped body, called a vascular cone, the apex of which looks to the body of the testicle. The vas- cular cones are connected by cellular substance, and united into a single tube *, which though not more than part of an inch in its diameter, is upwards of thirty feet long, and by its convolu- tions forms the greater part of the epididymis. The ramifications of the spermatic and epigastric ar- .teries and veins are distributed upon the epididymis. ctiam siibducta, uniuscujusquc ductus longitude duodecim circi- ter pedes explebit. Sin autem flexuum numerum supputemus ctiam, vercor ne fidem superet; vix enim ultra pollicis eun- dem cursum rectilineum servant, ita ut, ab origine sua ad testis rete, flexus 5760 singuli perficiant. Hinc testem animo depingamus, quasi ductuum 300, qui vasis sanguineis ornantur, congeries esset, quorum uniuscujusquc diameter pollicis sit, et ejus longitude pedes circiter 12, flex- us 5760 ab origine ad finem perficiens. Ten(. Med. inaug. de Se7n. el Test, in var. Animal, an. 1755. * Ut, de ejus fabrica, ex facili et certo certius constaret, se- quentia experimenta prius exposueram + j nempe si, inter infun- dendum mercurium, ull$ epidydirnidis parti, praeter caput ejus, vas crepuerit, vel si unum tantum vas vinculo constrinxerimus, nos frustra, ultra rupturam aut vincturam, mercurium propellere ronari. Vel, si epidydimida transversim dissecuerimus, deinde mercurium vi insigni in vas deferens adegerimus, per unic’um Edinr. Physical Essays, t. 1. art. IG. ^49 TUBES OF THE TESTICLE. The epididymis is in some very rare instances di- vided into two branches. tantum epidydimidis sectae orlficium prosilire. Quae quidem experinienta extra dubitationem dare evincunt, totam epidy- dimidia^ praeter caput, unico funiculo miris inodis flexo constare, dum in quibusdam animalibus, ut postea patebit, organoruni tenuitas aut structurae perplexitas nullum aliud hujus rei verita- tis argumentum perspicuum admittunt. Ex illo autem tempore, epidydimida mercurio turgidam, variis in partibus, in vas uni- cum subtile saepius resolvi, ne quidem mercurii guttula ef- fluente. “ Unicum esSe canalem comprobato, longitudinem ejus sup- putemus. Quo loco coni vasculosi in unum conjiingunturj ca« nalis hie tenuissimus apparet, .et, dum epidydimidis globum ml- norem versus progreditur, paullulum sensimque crassior fit; ad globum minorem subito magis ampliatur, et, paucis exinde fiexi- bus factis, vas deferens evadit. Exinde vix non multum a veri- tate decodes, si canalem huncce, mediam circiter epidydimida, dimetiaris, et pro regula, in calculis subducendis, ponas. Accu- ratissimis hac ratione mensuris in variis cadaveribus captis, dia- metrum ejus pollicis aequiparantem inveni.' Epidydimide ponderata, dein mercurio infuso repleta, iterumque librata, pon- dus ejus drach. ii ss auctum animadverti. Argentum vivum, quo usus sum, aquam 13 pondere superavit. Ex hisce datis t, calculis subductis, apparet, hujusce canalis longitudinem 30 pedes et pollices 11 excedere, et, quum, conmiuni flexuiuii ra- + Pollex cubicus 8145^ tubulos continet, quorum uniuscujusque diame- ter pollicis sequat—aquae pollex cubicus 253 gr. Troica ponderat, (Vid. Phil. Trans, vol. 45. p. 447.) Hinc aquae uncia—^|.° pollicis cubici; ct argenti vivi anc. L — cubici per 13 divisuiu, i. e. — ; itaque argenti vivi drach. L —et drach. iiss. — Idcirco de- nique 3289: 150;: 8145^ i ad ductuum numerum unius pollicis longitu- dinis qui in drach. iiss continentm', vel ad pollicum numerum in epidydimide, it e. ad poUiccs 371 et ultra, vel ad pedes 30, et poiliccs circiter 11.50 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, There is sometimes a small seminal tube two or three inches long, and which has a blind end lead- ing out from the epididymis, and this tube some- times follows a tortuous course. Explanation of Plate This engraving is intended to explain the structure bf the testicle and epididymis. It was taken from a preparation of the testicle, wluch was made by my Father, while prosecuting his medical studies at Berlin. Tlie drawing was made by tliat distinguished draughtsiiian, IIoPFERof Berlin, in 1756. A A point out the body of the testicle; the greater part of which, is composed of convoluted seminal tubes. > BB, the seminal tubes running upwards to the rete testis, which is marked by the letters CC. DD, the vasa eft’erentia. EEE, the coni vasculosi. . . EFGH, the vascular cones united in one tube, to form the ejudidymis ; 1,1, which has been unravelled, to shew that it is composed of a single tube. K, the vas deferens leading out from the epididymis. tione habita, vix ulti-a 3V poUicis rectilineus progrediatur, 11,100 flccti. “ Ex dictis patet, semen, a ductuum serpentiuorum intra tes- ’ tern origine ad vas deferens usque, vasa percurrere, quse singula l6,8Co plicantur, et, si in rectitudinem exporrigerentur, 42 pedes iongitudine excederent.”51 OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. Sect4 III. OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. The spermatic cord is composed of the sperma- tic artery, which arises from the fore-part of the aorta, of the accompanying veins, nerves, lympha- tic vessels, and the vas deferens^ united by cellular membrane. The spermatic artery, which supplies the testis with blood, arises from the fore-part of the aorta a little below the renal artery. It descends, cros- ses the ureter, becoming gradually larger ; lies over the iliacus internlis muscle, and soon reaches the upper abdominal aperture, where it covers the root of the epigastric artery ; it then passes ob- liquely downwards and inwards along the inferior edge of the internal oblique and transverse mus- cles of the'parietes of the abdomen, and passes out at the under abdominal aperture, where it is mlich larger, in consequence of the addition of the creiriaster muscle; it then follows a straight course downwards to the testis. The spermatic artery is of small calibre ; in its course to the testis is much convoluted, and its branches are distributed upon the epididymis, and body of the testicle. My Father examined with great attention the 'liltimate branches of the spermatic artery, both D 252 OUTLINES or ANATOMY. in its uninjected and injected state, with the view of discovering whether or not there were any knots or acini at the terminations of the artery. But he could not discover any appearance of these. The testes, therefore, afford instances of a gland of a simple structure. The spermatic veins, which abound in valves, are larger than the corresponding arteries ; and they terminate in the fore-part of the vena cava. The lymphatic vessels of the testicle are large and numerous. Of the Vas Deferens. I Through the cylindrical tube, called >vas defe- 9'en.s, the semen is conveyed to the vesiculas semi- nales. This tube arises from the posterior and infe- rior part of the epididymis, and continues its course along the back-part of the spermatic cord. The calibre of this tube is very small, in pro- portion to the size of the tube j its coats be- ing of considerable thickness ; and when pres- sed between the fingers, communicate the same sen- sation as a whip cord. This tube ascends through the under abdominal aperture ; and at the upper abdominal aperture, separates from the sperma- tic cord ; passes downwards and backwards along the psoas muscle, and is then fixed to the lateraler THE VAS DEFERENS. 53 part of the bladder ; descending obliquely from^ without inwards ; it passes behind the umbilical arfery ; crosses the ureter at the lower surface of the bladder, and is connected to the intesti- nutn curvum. In the vicinity of the prostate gland, the vasa deferentia are nearly in ^contact; and are con- siderably expanded, and join with the vesicula seminalis at an acute angle. There is a cylin- drical canal, about an inch long, common to the vas deferens and vesicula seminalis, which peiv forates the prostate gland, and opens on the un- der surface of that part of the urethra, which is surrounded by the prostate gland, or at the side of that fold of the membrane of the urethra cab led caput gallinaginis. Sect. I\T OF THE VESICULA SEMINALES. The vesiculce seminales have a flattened appear- ance, and are surrounded by a large quantity of cellular substance. They vary in breadth and in length in different instances *. When cut into, * “ Et in iis quas explicui diversitas maxime quideni insignis est: in aliis vix ultra appendices 3 vel 4 vidi, in aliis 20 fere, et ex iis plures iterum ramosas t. Modo autem vesiculse cec^ D 3 f Vid. Tab. iii. fig. 2. and 3.54 Ol’Tl.lN)E8 OF AWATOMY. after being distended and dried, they exhibit cellular structure. Upon accurately examining .the structure of thf vesiculae, after dissecting off the cellular .substance, they are found to be composed chiefly of a long tortuous canal, shut at its upper end ; from the sides of which, similar, but shorter tubes, vary-? ing in their number in different persons, are sejit off. The vesiculae are placed obliquely, and nearly touch each other at their apices; but are at some distance at their base, which are directed back* wards. The structure of the vesiculae is nearly similar to that of the vasa deferentia; each has a strong cellular outer coat, but no muscular fi.bres are seen under the external coat. repletffi membranas sine plicarum dissolutione auferamus, ve- ram aptissime fabricam detegimus Multis etiam quadrupedi- bus structura difficilioris adhuc quam in homine indaginis est; exemplo sit erinaceus.” Vid. Tent. Med. Inaug. de Test, et Sent, in var. animalibus. t Tab. iii. fig. 4.55 OF THE PROSTATE GLANDS. Sect. V. OF THE PROSTATE AND OTHER GLANDS, WHICH SECRETE FLUIDS WHICH ARE MIXED WITH THE % SEMEN. The prostate gland is in structure firm and dense, like a chesnut in figure, and divided by a fissure into two large lateral lobes. The superior surface of it corresponds with the arch of the pubis, and is in part covered by a fi- brous expansion, named the injerior ligament ol the bladder. On the inner and back part of the urinary blad- der, near to its neck, its internal membrane is ele- vated by a minute oblong protuberance of the prostate gland, which has been described, and re- presented by Santorini*, and also by Morgag- ni, and by Lieutaud, who has called it la luette •vesicate. On the posterior outer part of the prostate gland, between the seminal ducts, Morgagni has obser- sed, his assistant (Incisor) discovered another pro- tuberance, on the posterior part of the gland. My Father, who has lately examined this matter with attention, assures me, that he has not found this protuberance, and it is rarely observed, even when the prostate gland has attained an unnatural bulk. The prostate gland is connected also to the up- per surface of the intestinum curvum ; and when D 4 * Vid. his Obs. Anat. pub. 1724. tab. ii. fig. 2d, letter I.56 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY^ that bowel is much distended, it rises slightly on the prostate gland, and is thus liable to be cut in the lateral operation of lithotomy. There are ten or twelve ducts leading from this gland, which open obliquelyinto the urethraaround the orifices of the seminal ducts, which are common to the vasa deferent ia, and vesiculae seminales. These ducts, w-hich, with their exceedingly mi- nute cylindrical beginnings, compose the greater share of the prostate gland, were filled with wax by my Father, upwards of forty years ago. and < have since been annually demonstrated in his Cour- ses of Lectures, along with an engraving of these ducts, executed by Mr T. Donaldson in 17b2. The prostate is covered by cellular substance; by a plexus of veins ; and by a portion of a few scattered muscular fibres, which Albinus has des- cribed under the name compressor prostata, but which constitute a portion of the levator ani muscle. This gland is largely supplied with arteries, veins, nerves, and lymphatic vessels. Of Cowper's Glands. Cowper’s glands are two small bodies, of a light red colour, one of which is situated on each side of the bulb of the urethra. They are about the size of a pea. Each of them has a separate ex- cretory duct, about half an inch long, which per- forates the membranous part of the urethra with a degree of obliquity. Sometimes these glands •are not to be found.OT THE PENIS. 5J7 The nature of the fluid, secreted by these glands, Jias not been discovered. • Sect, VI. OF THE PENIS. The penis, the vehicle by which the semen is introduced within the vagina of the female, is of a cellular structure, in order that it may be occa- sionally elongated, distended, and erected. The cellular structure of this organ is divided between two tubes, called corpora cavernosa penis, which are inclosed within a strong fibrous and elas- tic membrane, which bears a resemblance to a ligament, and which are disunited by an imper- fect partition, so that air or water thrown into one corpus cavernosum, readily fills the other. Both extremities of the corpora cavernosa are smaller than their bodies, and covered at their an- terior part by the glans penis; behind, they di- varicate from each other, like the strokes of the letter Y, under the symphysis pubis; and becom- ing gradually smaller, are inserted on each side by their conical extremities, into the ascending branches of the ossa ischia. The intervening spaces between the corpora cavernosa penis, are occupied by the vena ipsius penis, and the urethra ; the former is placed up- on the upper, and the latter upon the under surface «f the penis.56' OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. The greater part of the urethra is inclosed within a tough membrane, and a plexus of arteries and veins, which plexus is expanded into a large conical-shaped body, cajled glans penis. The penis is fixed to the symphysis pubis, by means of a ligament, called the ligamentum suspen- sorium penis. The penis is covered by skin and cellular mera- branc, but not by fat. The penis is amply supplied with nerves; the trunk of which runs along the dorsum penis. The branches of the pudic arteries, are distri- buted upon the cells of the penis ; and the veins, wluch ,correspond with these, originate from tl;ve cells, $9 that the blood readily flows from ,the cells, into the smaller branches of the veins of the penis. There are also many lymphatic yessels, proper to th,e peni.'!, the larger of which are disposed along the dorsum penis, and run into the upper cluster qf inguinal lymphatic glands. Sect. VII. OF THE MUSCLES WHICH ASSIST IN EXPELLING t THE SEMEN. Ischio-Cavernosus, or Erector Penis. This muscle covers the crus penis, arid takes its rise from the tuberosity of the ischium ; the fibresJLXfVLSION OF SEMZN. ^ tp.thp,inpgr sidp pf thp a§cep^ing bra^jbi of tjie miKcle terminates in a tendon, iwhich is ip^erted into .thp ligamentoj^ nvepibr^ne of the corpora cavernosa, where the corpora cavernosa are united to each other. This rnpfclp is ^uppp^pd, by compressing the erpra penis, ,to be pssendal to the erpetion of the penis,; It may also feijid to draw the crus penis downwards towards the tuber ischii. Bulbo-Urethralis, or Accelerator Urina. This muscle takes its ri$e by a thin tepdon from the crus and origin of the cofpus jcayernpsuin penis ; it is also connected wbji t^e meiphtapous part of the urethra, and sphincter ani. The fibres of this muscle de^epnd obliquely, aiid are inserted into the muscle of the opposite side, at the middle of the bulb of thp ,urethra. By this muscle, the urethra is comprpssed, and its contents are expelled ; and it contributes also, to the erection of the glans penis, by its pressure on the bulb of the urethra, by which the blood is forced into the glans. Of the Human Semen. The human semen, when recent, is a white, viscid, heavy fluid, which emits a very peculiar odour. The contents of the vesiculas seminales, are of a light straw colour, is intermixed with aOUTLINES or ANATOMY. 60 number of shining filaments ; and hence the semen probably acquires its white colour from its ad- mixture with the liquor of the prostate gland. When semen is rubbed in a mortar, it becomes frothy. It renders paper stained with violet green, and hence it probably contains an alkali. As semen cools, it becomes thicker ; but about twenty minutes after its emission, it becomes quite liquid. Ammonia is formed during the exposure of se- men to the air. When exposed to the air, it deliquesces, becomes pellucid, and perfectly liquid. A hundred parts of-the semen, according to Vauquelin*, contain 90 of water, 6 of mucilage, 3 of phosphate of lime, and 1 of soda. The semen also contains a great number of ani- malculi, which have been said to have a rounded head, with a gently tapering tail f. • Annal. de Chim. tom ix. p. 64; + Vid. Leuenhoeck’s Description of these Animals; London Phil. Trans, n. 14S.female organs of generation* &1 CHAPTER li. Of’tHE female organs of GENERATIONr Sect. I. Before proceeding to the more immediate sub- ject of this Chapter, it seems necessary to premise a very brief description of the situation, and rela- tive situation of the contents of the female pel- vis. The upper and back part of the bladder is co- vered, as in the male, by the peritoneum, which is reflected upon the back-part of the vagina, the cervix and fundus uteri; the peritoneum then’de- scends, and covers the posterior part of the uterus ; hence the uterus is included within a doubling of the peritoneum, which forms what has been cal- led tht broad ligament of the womb. From the womb, the peritoneum passes to the rectum and then to the os sacrum. From the preceding description of the course of the peritoneum, it follows, that the anterior part62 OUTLINES 6r ANAtbMY.' I of the body and neck of the womb, are not invest- ed by the peritoneum, but are in immediate con- tact with the bladder of urine. The tubes connected with the fundus uteri, cal- led Fallopian or uterine, the bloodvessels and nerves of the womb, are also included within the dupli- cation of the peritoneum. The broad ligament above described, is fixed into the sides of the pelvis, which is thereby di- vided into an anterior and posterior chamber. The broad ligament is subdivided into an an- terior and posterior part; in the former of which the fallppian tubes are lodged ; in the latter, the ovaria, and their ligaments. There are also round ligaments, proper to the uterus ; these arise from the fundus uteri, extend obliquely downwards, and pass into the inguinal canals, and terminate in tire groins. They are cords of a pale red colour, composed of longitudinal fibres, of cellular substance, blood- vessels, and nerves. These ligaments separate into several threads, which are fixed to the mons veneris, and labia externa. In some women, there is a canal formed by thfe peritoneum, which lies over the broad ligaments, and into which the bowels sometimes descend *. • •* Vid. my Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach, and Intestines, p. 517.63 OF THE OVARIAr 1 SiiCT. II. OF THE OVARIA. I The ovaria constitute the most essential part of the female organs of generation for trom these, the rudiment of the foetus is derived. The ovaria somewhat resemble the testes in shape and size, in the prime of life, but are more flattened laterally, and their long diameter is plaeed transversely. In old age, the ovaria become much smaller. The ovaria in young women, are sometimes ir- regular on their surface. The ovaria consist of a spongy yellowish substance ; within which, the transparent ovula are contained, which are inclos- ed within a dense cellular covering, and perito- neum. That a something necessary to impregnation is derived from the ovarium, is obvious; 1st, As those women are barren whose uterine tubes are obstructed. 2d, From the remarkable difference between the ovaria of a virgin, and those of a woman, who has had children. Upon examining the ovarium after impregnation, a cavity is found within it, which is particularly observable in the cow, is in- closed by a substance which, from its colour, has been called corpus luteum.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 64f 3d, As the number of th&se corpora lutea always corresponds with the number of fcEtuses. If a woman has had twins, there are two cor- pora lutea in one of the ovariu, or a corpus luteum in each ovarium. In quadrupeds, the number of corpora lutea, always corresponds with the number of young; 4th, As the uterine tubes, from their peculiar form, situation, and structure, are well calculated for giving passage * to the contents of the ova- rium. Sect. HI. OF THE UTEIHJS OR WOMI3. 4 The womb is a hollow bowel, destined to re- ceive the rudiment of the ovum from the ovaria, and to retain and nourish the foetus, until it be capable of an independent existence. The womb varies in size in virgins, and still more so in women who have had children ; and after impregnation, it never regains its original smallness. The womb, which in figure somewhat resembles a flattened pear, has been divided by anatomists into a fundus or uppermost part, a body, a neck, and mouth, or os tincse, which is placed trans- versely.65 OF THE UTERUS OR WOMB. The uterus is loosely connected to the sides of the pelvis by ligaments, and by cellular sub- stance. There is a doubling of the peritoneum, called the broad ligament of the uterus, extending from its sides to the sides of the pelvis, nearly in the course of the transverse diameter of the pelvis. The cavity of the womb bears but a small pro- portion to the external bulk of the organ, its pa- rietes being very thick. The uterine or fallopian tubes are affixed to the fundus uteri. The uterus is lined by a very soft and very vas- cular membrane. This at the neck of the uterus is tucked up into rugae, which are disposed trans- versely, and |)y some have been described as be- ing disposed in a foliated direction, like the leaves of the palm-tree. Between the rugae, there are several lacunae, which secrete a mucous fluid. The parietes of the uterus, when divided, ex- hibit a fibrous structure j and the fibres are dis- posed so irregularly, that it is impossible to detect their course. The uterus is very largely supplied with blood by the spermatic and uterine hypogastric arteries, the branches of which freely anastomose with each other. The spermatic arteries arise, as in the male, from the fore-part of the aorta, between the renal and VOL. III. EOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 66 inferior mesenteric arteries, or from the renal artery ; they describe a tortuous course behind the peritoneum, and are distributed upon the ova- ria an^ fundus uteri, and anastomose repeatedly with the uterine hypogastric arteries, which are distributed chiefly upon the fundus uteri. From the arteries of the womb, the menstrual blood is discharged. In this country, menstruation occurs between the thirteenth and sixteenth years ; but if the young woman be confined to hot rooms, sooner. Much depends on peculiarity of constitution, edu- cation, kind of life, and climate. In tropical countries, women menstruate when nine or ten years old ; in Switzerland, according to Haller, when twelve or thirteen years of age ; in Lapland, according to Linnaeus, much later ; and instances, he has observed, have occurred, where menstruation took place only in summer. The menses generally are interrupted about the fortieth year, and cease entirely before the fif- tieth year, after which time women generally do not bear children. There are a few instances in which the menses have continued for a longer period, especially in cold climates, w’hen women have begun to men- struate at a laj:e period. The time during which the menses continue to flow at each menstruation is various ; in ge- neral they cease flowing in two or three days.;» OF THt UTERUS OR WOMB. ' 67 but in debilitated women they continue to flow for six or seven days. The quantity of fluid dischar- ged is also various; it is greater in warm than in cold climates; in the former, not more than * iv. or g V,; but in the latter, double that quantity. It has been much disputed, whether the men- Jes are derived from the vagina or uterus. I have seen the menses, in cases of prolapsus uteri, flow- ing from the vessels of the uterus ; we then also observe the mucous membrane of the uterus softer than usual, covered with villi; and can also some- times see open pores from which blood is dischar- ged. Mr Brande has lately analysed the “ menstru- ous discharge, collected from a woman with pro- lapsus uteri, and consequently perfectly free from admixture of other secretions. It had the pro- perties of a very concentrated solution of the colouring matter of the blood in a diluted serum.”—“ Although,” he adds, “ I could detect no traces of iron, by the usual modes of anal_ysis, minute portions of that metal may, and probably do exist in it, as well as in the other animal fluids which I have examined ; but the abundance of colouring matter in this secretion should have af- forded a proportional quantity of iron, did any connection exist between them *.” £ 2 * Lond. Phil. Trans, for 1812,OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 68 Sect. IV. OF THE UTERINE OR FALLOPIAN TUBES. The uterine tubes are connected with the late- ral parts of the fundus uteri; are about three inches long, curved in form, like a trumpet, with the narrow end next the uterus ; and at the opposite end there are a number of fimbriated pro- cesses. These tubes are covered by the peritoneum, within which in some subjects I have observed dis- tinct muscular fibres, and they are lined by an in- ternal and soft pulpy membrane. 7'hese tubes have been observed, in animals kil- led soon after coition, firmly embracing the ova- ria by their fimbriated extremities. Sect. V. OF THE VAGINA. The vagina, the channel of communication be- tween the uterus and external organs, is very dis- tensible, curved, continued downwards and for- wards, nearly in the course of the axis of the pelvis, and in virgins considerably'wider above than below, and rather longer behind than before.69. OF THE VAGINA. t The vagina internally is rugous, and its rugEE are subdivided into anterior and posterior columns, which are very apparent in virgins ; and between the rugae there are numerous mucous ducts for lu- bricating the parts. Of the Orifice of the Vagina. The orifice of the vagina is about half an inch below the symphysis pubis, and surrounded and contracted by its corpus spongiosum, and its sphincter muscle. Its aperture in virgins is very small, being contracted by the hymen, a semilu- nar-shaped membrane, the concave part of which looks upwards, and in the upper part of which there is an aperture, through which the menses are discharged. There is much Variety as to the thickness of the hymen in different women ; sometimes it assumes a circular form ; is not per- forated ; and the menses are retained within the vagina. The sphincter vaginae, which surrounds and contracts the lower part of the vagina, and pres- ses upon the plexus retiformis of the vagina, is connected with the sphincter ani ; and is fixed into the crura clitoridis, where they are united to each other. The transversalis perinei of the female is simi- lar as to its origin with the corresponding muscles of the male ; it is fixed into the sphincter vaginm,^ and sphincter ani. E 370 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. The orifice of the urethra is placed immediately above the orifice of the vagina, to which it ad- heres intimately, and is surrounded by two spon- gy eminences, called by authors corpora glamlulo- sa, and behind the uieihra lies in contact with the rectum ; to the upper part of which it is inti- mately connected. Sect. VI, OF THE EXTERNAL PARTS. FRO^f the mons veneris, placed upon the sym- physis pubis, there are rounded bodies, covered by hair, which descend from the symphysis pubis, and which are united about an inch from the anus by a tranvserse bridle, called jourchette; these havQ been named the labia externa. The labia externa, when cut into, are found to be composed of thin cellular membrane and fat; and their inner surfaces arc lubricated by a quantity of sebaceous substance. Upon separating the labia externa from each other, a little rounded body, of a red colour, about one-eighth of an inch long, comes Jnto view, which is in shape the miniature of the male penis, and which, like it, is covered by a fore-skin, or prepuce, under which there are glandulae odorifera? ; this is the clitoris. . The clitoris not only resembles the penis in appear- ance, but also in structure ; it is made up of twoOF THE EXTERNAL PARTS. 71 cellular corpora cavernosa, which are contained in a ligamentous membrane, and take their origin from the rami of the os ischium, and ^re capable of distention, and are provided with muscles for that purpose. The clitoris is attached to the sym- physis pubis by its proper suspensory ligament; and like the penis, possesses great sensibility. The corpora cavernosa of the clitoris are con- siderably longer than the body of it. From the frenum clitoridis, descend the labia interna or nymphce, on each side to the oritice of the vagina. These are various in size in different women, and in different nations*. The nymphae are very vascular organs, inclosed In a duplication of skin ; consisting chiefly of ser- pentine branches of the pudic artery, and corres- ponding veins. On separating the nymphae, an orifice presents itsell about an inch below these, viz. the orifice of the urethra; and immediately under it, the orifice of the vagina is placed, which in a virgin is surround- ed by the membrane called hymen. Below the orifice of the vagina, and between it and the transverse fold of skin, by which the lower parts of the labia externa are united, there is a small cavity, somewhat in figure like a boat, which hence has been called the fossa navicii- lai'is. E 4 * The nymphae are very large in tlie Hottentots.Outlines of anatomy. 72 The external organs of generation of the fe- male are supplied with blood by the branches of the pudic artery. The nerves of these organs are derived from the pudic nerves. The lymphatic vessels of the external female or- gans of generation pass into the lymphatic glands of the groin ; and those at the sides of the pelvis pass into the iliac,"and then into the lumbar lym- phatic glands. Conclusion. * Trom what has been already stated, it follows,, that the testes and ovaria are the most important parts of the organa of generation. The semen, secreted by the testes, is probably propelled through its long course by a muscular power, (though the muscular fibres of,the ducts be so small as to escape our imperfect sight,) and is carried to the vesiculae seminales, within which it remains till it is required.* In consequence of the return of the blood from the penis being prevented, the penis is erected ; the corpora cavernosa penis, and corpus spongio- sum urethrae are distended, by which the penis acquires the necessary firmness ; and by it the semen is introduced into the vagina of the fe- male.73 ORGANS OF GENERATION^ From the stimulus of the male semen, a some- thing necessary to conception passes from the ova- ria through the fallopian tubes into the uterus. Many different opinions have been entertained respecting the origin of the embryo; some have supposed that it is derived from the father; others that it is derived from the mother ; and a third description of authors have affirmed, that it is de- rived from both father and mother,74 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, Authors on the Organs of Generation, and on the Physiology oj these Organs. Authors on the Male Semen. Leuenhoeck, Phil. Trans, of London, n. 143.' Needham, Obs. Mycroscop. and VAU<^UIL1^^. Authors on the Structure of the Testes. De Graae. Dr Monro 2dus, Thesis de Semine ct Testibus in variis Animalibus, 1755. Haller, Element. Physiol, vol. v. Haller, Prog, de Vasis Seminal. Mr J. Hunter's Obs. on the Vesieulse Semin. Chaptal, Journal de Physique for 1787. Morgani, Adversaria. Albini, Annot. Acad. lib. iii. for the Structure of the Gians Penis. On the Female Organs. Smellie’s Midwifery. Hamilton’s Midwifery. J. Burn’s Principles of Midwifery. Dr W. Hunter’s Engravings. Haller’s Plates of the Vagina. Dr Denman’s Midwifery and Plates.authors on the organs of generation. 75 Baudeloque, 4th Edit. Roederer. Tolbeng, de Variet. Hymenum, Hal. 1791. Peron, Vaillaint and Sommerville, on the Nymphse of the Hott ntot. Steller. on the same peculiarity in the Kamschatkan Women. Barrow’s Travels in Africa, vol. i.*. On the Structuie of the Ovaria, see De Graaf. % On the Physiology of the Organs of Generation, Vid. Hippocrates, Aristotle, Dr W. Harvey,. Dauben- TON,. De Graaf, Buffon, Haller, Ruysch, Physiog. vol. viii. Morgagni, Blumenbach, Cruickshanks, Haighton, Spallanzani. • He says the Nymphse are sometimes fire inches long, and of a liviA blue colour, like the excrescence of a turkey.;j i:\i4ioartj^nTi -o >irf>M r />. •,, I' • ■ ^ 0T .tii/I ih'i ,.i ’ *SC .?! >niDn. <il r^. >•. Itii ,mn »V/ff.b -•^K* V ub ,t>/jr i lo •/•l{«Jkl; a.'!< .iC 1 iU' U:» i T.*AX;./V , : . i < 1 & • ^ -0\ ' i * / Jv.'_k V • _ >• _ *HCS'> .iZ-Vt -M-^' V * -♦ ■ I ^• .<t xj <K-vJstril/r" I ?ff:;;i oifj’ro .? i ..'^r8 ' * V. ' * , i.. .K-ikHn! 1 ' * * ‘V- '.‘ ■ - V .* .i >!•/.,Kjf^ * •. i^ytia^ * j .'^*; ■lO sifL^o-j»! iift/O i'j 'jiiiJtHJihi od^jsiiO ■uii'i*; ..f ’ •.. i i-.v^\ ' T vit,-X'S * y • * ■’ V .*"■ Vr J».irOT-'V*V, < r^ / ■ •'V' *j«f »'l ,ti^»»<*./jV/;. ‘ * ' ' ■ . A ■ i i^r * ■«* .».*»/.■<•. '. v^MT ,y- / . ^ ,>-i7TH.T*,/H ‘ *■•■ ■ ^---.■, . |(L ’ ^ wic ^ fc-- i%*-v*‘* * MM- ' ^ w': »iHt • • .' '^V*. y^i '-'T f-"r ' ,-|^ t- ’-.jM ^ 0 / •>F ' JM • f ■ A • • - f “• I -! .ifc » , 4 • ' # - % i. - / I • « , ’•PART XIX.J * > '.0^ ..V •> ijjc'V /-■ i* ■t r-» ■ ». A ( %■ I \ A.X •■ I. ! n. * ^ if <. TiitTi^te ^ .ZIZlfiA*! % ' > ■■« ’■’f^W *:< iy t ! ti !«,' .‘.•3 ’.■*i tA ■• • a- > ■ -4«- • 4_ • . ^ 4* '■*■<'. . < 1 ** \ 9 A JT -i»S« »! ■ '•> •' •«" •■derangements of the scrotum. 79 OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. CHAFrER I. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE ORGANS OF GENERATION OF THE MALE. / I Sect. I. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE SCRO- TUM. T'he scrotum is subject to all the organic de- rangements of the skin. Water, pus and blood, are sometimes effused in the lax cellular substance of the scrotum. The scrotum of chimney-sweepers is sometimes affected by a peculiar kind of cancer, which has been well described by the late Mr Pott.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY* so Sect. II. ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE SUBSTANCE AND COATS OF THE TESTES. The testes are subject to a great number of or- ganic derangements. The testicle is sometimes inflamed, and much swollen ; as also the epididymis; and this swel- ling frequently remains during the progress of life. Abscesses have sometimes been found in the testicle. The testicle, in some instances, attains an un- natural bulk from scirrhus; and within such a dis- eased testis, there are sometimes cysts filled by water. In the progress of the disease, the spermatic cord is also frequently reduced to a similar mor- bid state.' In the centre of such a testis, there are hard lumps like cartilage within it, or it is inter- sected by cartilaginous striae. Watery tumours are sometimes connected to the body of the te'stis, and even when the body of the gland is in a sound state. The testicle sometimes contains a quantity of scrofulous pus. • The testicle sometimes feels soft and elastic ; attains a large bulk, in consequence of being fill-DISEASES OF the COATS of the TESttCLE. 81 cd by a substance like the brain in a state of pu- trefaction^ This disease has been called the fun- gus hamatodes *. There is a disease of the testicle, which has not, as far as I know, been described by any author, in which the body of the testicle is converted in- to a substance of the colour and consistence of yel- low Wax. The testis has been described by Dr Baillie, as being sometimes cartilaginous, and sometimes even bony and occasionally it has been converted into a mass of hydatids. A wasting of the testicle is perhaps the most common organic derangement of this gland; and this disease in some instances attacks both testes. Water, pus, and calculous matter, have been said to be sometimes found in the vesiculae semi- nales. Sect. II. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE COATS OF THE TESTICLE. The coats of the testes, being serous membranes, partake of all the organic derangements peculiar to membranes of that description. * Vid. Wardrop on Fungus Haematodefi. , VOL. III. F82 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. On account of the firmness of the coats of the testicle, an inflammation of that organ is attended with great pain, as the membrane does not readily yield. The coats of the testicle admit of considerable extension, as is evident in cases of swelled testi- cle and hydrocele, or when blood has been effused within them ; and they also regain their former bulk, upon the water which had distended them, being removed ; and whence we infer that they possess a considerable share of contractility. The coats of the testicle sometimes have been partially ossified, and cartilaginous bodies have frequently been observed growing from them. Sect. III. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE SPER- MATIC CORD. The spermatic cord partakes of many of the organic derangements of the testes above descri- bed ; thus it is reduced to a scirrhous, or to a scrofulous state, when the substance of the testi- cle is in that morbid state. Sacs, containing water, sometimes adhere to the spermatic cord, or are found within it. Polypi are sometimes connected to the sper- matic cord, and have been mistaken for ingui- nal herniae.DISEASES OF THE PREPUCE AND PENIS. 83 The most frequent organic disease of the sper- matic cord is the varix of its veins ; and Vvhen the veins have,been much distended, the sperma- tic cord becomes of an unnatural size, and is to the feeling soft, and has sometimes been mistaken for an inguinal hernia. Sect. IV>. f ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE PREPOCE, ANO BODY OF THE PENIS. Sometimes the prepuce is so tight, that it can- not be drawn back, which is very inconvenient; for, in this case, the sebaceous matter secreted by the glandulae odoriferae, cannot be washed off; in- flammation follows, and an excoriation, which has been mistaken for a virulent gonorrhoea. The above circumstance led to the practice of drcum- cisim. ■ * Sometimes, when the fore-skin has been drawn back, it cannot be drawn forwards. Sometimes the prepuce has been so much enlar- ged and hardened, that it conceals the glans penis. The glans penis is the seat of herpes and vene- real chancre. Venereal verrucae often appear ori the glans or prepuce. They are of a red colour ; of an irre-^ gular form ; and have a spongy fungous appear- ance ; and are often the remains of chancres. F 284) OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. The acrid matter of the glandulae odoriferce, scrofula and scurvy, sometimes produce ulceration of the glans penis somewhat like to that occasion- ed by lues venerea. Cancer of the penis sometimes occurs in advan- ced life ; it begins like a warty excrescence ; and from the glans, the disease extends to the body of the penis. ' Sometimes the disease begins in the prepuce, and extends to the glans and along the body of the penis ; and at length destroys that organ. Ossification of the corpora cavernosa penis some- times takes place. Gangrene should also be enumerated among the organic derangements of the penis, and is frequent- ly the effect of venereal chancres that have been improperly treated. Ulcers have sometimes, though'very rarely, been observed in the urethra. Calculi sometimes have stuck partly in the ure- thra, and partly within the neck of the blad- der. Calculi have also been lodged within the ure- thra, and sometimes under the prepuce. In some instances, the urethra has terminated behind the glans penis.85 BISIASES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. Sect. V. ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. This gland is a frequent seat of disease in the old. The prostate gland often attains an unnatural bulk, from scirrhus, from abscesses within it, from scrofula, and from calculi; and the swelling of the gland is sometimes general, and sometimes partial. Mr Howard, has observed *, “ There are prin- cipally two kinds of scirrhi, affecting the prostate gland. The one arises early, and, generally speak- ing, is a consequence of gonorrhoea ; and the other at a period much more remote ; and towards the decline of life. The one is more immediately the effect of inflammation, of a date not very distant; the other is the consequence of that gradual waste or decay, which naturally takes place in, and ul- timately destroys all animal bodies.” A part of the diseased prostate, projects into the urethra, altering the direction of that canal; at other times there is a projection from each side of the prostate, into the bladder of urine, which F3 * Vid. his Observations on the Natural History and Cure of the Venereal Disease, 2d edit. vol. i. p. 253.86 OUTLINES OE aWaTOMY. may form a bed for a urinary concretion ; and sometimes only the base or the third lobe of this gland is enlarged, so as to form a valve which co- vers the neck of the bladder. In such instances^ the urine may be discharged when the bladder has been moderately distended; but upon the bladder being fully distended, the valve is pushed down, and not a drop of urine is voided. The veins in the vicinity of the prostate gland, sometimes become varicose. There have been cases in which the ducts of the prostate gland have been much enlarged. 4 tAUTHORS ON THE MALE ORGANS. 87 Authors on the Organic Derangements of the Male Organs. Dr Baillie’s Morbid Anatomy, and Plates. Adriani, de Tumoribus Testium, Morgagni, Epist. Earthy Concretions in the Epididymis,—See Walter, Obs'. Anat. 53. Likutaud. Ramsden, on Sarcocele. Hartmann and MaTHaeus, de Calculis in Vesicula Seminali. Richerand, Nosog. Chir. tom iv. 2d edit. J. C. PoHL and Neigefeind, de Prostatis Calculo afFectis. Mr J. Hunter, and Mr E. Home, on the Organic Derange- ments of the Prostate Gland. Pott, on the Diseases of the Scrotum and Testes. Albinus, on the Dilatation of the Corpora Cavernosa Penis,ns OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. CHAPTER II. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE FEMALE ORGANS OF QENERATIO^^. Sect. I. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE LABIA EXTERNA, AND OTHER PARTS COMMONLY ENUMERATED^ AMONG THE EXTERNAL ORGANS OF GENERATION OF THE female, T'HE labia externa are occasionally of an un- natural bulk, and oedematous, and very frequent- ly inflamed ; in consequence of which, they some- times have adhered to each other, leaving no pas- sage into the vagina, excepting at the anterior part for the discharge of urine. The erysipelas, in some instances, attacks the external organs of the female, and spreads rapid-DISEASES OF THE HYMEN. S9 Inflammation of the labia, sometimes gives rise to ulceration. The labia externa are subject to ulcers of diffe- rent descriptions. Of these, what has been named the irritable sore, is perhaps the most distressing. Venereal Texcrescences, and polypi, sometimes grow from the labia. The labia externa, are sometimes the seat of scrofulous and scirrhous tumours. The bowels have been sometimes protruded into the labia pudendi, in cases of hernia*. Sect. II. HYMEN THICKENED. The hymen is sometimes so thick, that it can- not be ruptured, and at the same time imperforat- ed ; and hence the menses are retained behind it, which sometimes occasion a considerable tumour. The nymphae are occasionally much elongated, protruded beyond the labia, and covered by an insensible skin. The carunculce myrtiformes, sometimes attain an unnatural length, and create much pain. * Vid. the Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach,OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 90 Sect. III. ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE VAGINA. % Contraction of the Vagina, The vagina has been found contracted. A contraction of the vagina is the effect of ori- ginal mal-conformation, or of an adhesion, the con- ,sequence of difficult labour. In some instances, the vagina is not of its usual length. The vagina, though very rarely, has been di- vided by a partition extending from one end of it to the other, but more frequently a membrane has been observed, to pass transversely across it, and this membrane is commonly placed behind the hymen. The vagina has, in a few cases, been inverted, from a procidentia uteri. Mortification of the vagina, sometimes occurs, in consequence of stimulant injections The morti- fication is either limited to the internal membrane, Qr^occupies the whole of the vagina. The bowels have sometimes been prolapsed be-DISEASES OF THE CLITORIS. 91 tween the vagina and rectum, forming the perineal hernia*. •' Organic Diseases of the Clitoris. The clitoris has been sometimes so much en- larged, as to be mistaken for a 'male penis. The enlargement is sometimes accompanied by induration, thickening, and the cancerous ulcera- tion. Scirrhous tumours sometimes have grown from the clitoris. Sect. IV. « MAL-CONFORMATION AND ORGANIC DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. • - The uterus has been found larger or smaller than usual, and the latter is attended with a similar conformation of the external parts. ■ The uterus has been found double. Inflammation of the uterus sometimes takes place after delivery, which inflammation is com- monly attended by inflammation of the viscera of the abdomen, and even by that of the fallopian tubes. * For a more full account of that kind of hernia, see the Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach, &c.92 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. This inflammation is accompanied by the eflfu- sion of coagulable lymph, and also by suppura- tion in some cases. Sometimes the uterus is the seat of a phagedenic kind of ulceration, by which it is destroyed. Scirrhus of the Uterus. This disease is most frequent in the neck of the uterus, and in that part which is lodged in the vagina, and it extends to the rest of the uterus. The uterus is much enlarged before ulceration akes place ; the neck of it is elongated, and the uterus is open. Sometimes the scirrhous uterus attains a very large size, and extends to the rectum and blad- der ; and generally in such cases the vagina is much hardened and thickened, and the lympha- tic glands in the vicinity are much diseased. In such cases, the parietes of the uterus are much thickened, and intersected by cartilaginous lines, and there are frequently cysts in them, which are filled by an ichorous or bloody water; and from the inner surface of these cysts, fun- gous excrescences grow. Sometimes the whole internal surface of the uterus is in a fungous state. The section of,the parietes of the uterus exhi- bits the usual characters of scirrhus.SClRRHUS OF THE UTERUS. 93 Tubercles sometimes grow from the uterus, and more frequently polypi, which sometimes at- tain a large bulk, and by their weight produce prolapsus uteri. The polypi which grow from the uterus, are similar to those which have been already de- scribed, as attached to the alimentary canal. The uterus is also the seat of the fungus hae- matodes, a tumour which bears a strong resem- blance in its colour to the brain, and containing cysts filled by bloody serum. Moles sometimes are found within the uterus, and the latter have been discharged, and the pa- tient has become pregnant. Earthy concretions have been described in the uterus. The uterus has sometimes been ruptured at the time of delivery. Hydatids have sometimes been contained in the uterus ; by which it is much enlarged. These hydatids have sometimes been artifi- cially removed, as in the case alluded to in the second volume, and the patient has obtained a complete recovery. Water is sometimes collected within the uterus j and if such a patient menstruates, the menses are pale and watery. In some instances, the water is for a time re- tained, but in others it comes away in gushes.OUTLINES OF ANATOMF. 9it Tubercles of different sizes, r consisting of a solid white substance, sometimes grow from the uterus, and these are either imbedded within ithe uterus, or grow from its outer surface. The uterus is occasionally displaced, or in a state of prolapsus ; and the displacement sometimes takes place to such a degree, that the uterus protrudes beyond the external parts^ which is named the procidentia uteri. The uterus has been in a few instances, so much displaced as to fill an inguinal hernia*. > Lieutaud f has described the uterus as being in a few cases changed into an earthy substance; and masses of bone have been found within the cavity of the uterus. Sect. V. ’ s Organic derangements of the ovarium. Dropsy is the most frequent organic derange* ment of the ovarium. The ovarium, when dropsical, consists of one bag, or of a number of small cysts, which do not communicate with each other ; and the fluid which fills these, is in some cases clear and limpid, but in others yellow and ropy. * Such a kind of hernia has been described by Senertus, Ruysch and Lallement. t Tom. 1. p. 323.95 DISEASES OF THE OVARIUM, The dropsical ovarium sometimes attains a, very large size, and sometimes ascends so high as to adhere to the diaphragm. The ovarium, in old women, is sometimes redu- ced to a scirrhous state. The ovarium sometimes attains a -large bulk, in consequence of being filled by a suetty substance. Teeth, and even hairs, are sometimes found with- in the ovarium. Lastly, the ovaria are sometimes very much enlarged, in consequence of being filled by an ill- conditioned curdly pus, and from the unnatural thickening of their parietes. The ovaria have been said to be wanting, in which case, the external parts of generation do not attain their healthy size. Sect. VI. ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. These tubes sometimes have been obstructed, probably in consequence of previous inflamma- tion *, and when the obstruction has taken place at both ends of these tubes, they have been found fill- ed by a watery fluid. The Fallopian tubes, according to Dr Baillie, 'sometimes end in a cul de sac ; and according to96 OUTLINES or ANATOMY. the same author, hard tumors sometimes grow from the outer side of these tubes. It may not be improper to add, that a foetus has sometimes been lodged within one of*the fallopian tubes, enveloped in its membranes, the chorion and amnion. Authors on the Organic Derangements of the male Parts of Generation. Vid. the Works of Hamilton, Smellie, Levret, Denman, Burns, Baudelocque, Diemerbuock, Parsons, Haller,, Arnaud. On the Enlargement if the Labia Pudendi. Cancer of Clitoris, described by Schmuckers, in his Vermi- schete Chirurg. Schriften, ii. Sandifort, Obs. Anat, Pathol. Bresl. Samrti. 1721.—648. Sauckrotte, Melang. de Chinirg.PART XX.i • ^’<1 \ A - 'L .f * I - ‘ ■4. ‘ ^ IbJ . c ■ * t ^ u^- • I I o;«\ tJ’X? ■ ^ " ■ V r-'ri^'*' >-•'. ‘1 . V t '■y ,w»-;....,' :'is '' -*.:*<»». <■. ■■ ■• ■ • * t . A ^ •>. . r -'W'- . i J-. 0 * ' •■ - "*''' ’->iv -^r ^'* - ■ * ■>■• ■ >*■ -■ ^ j'•■vi.; Va'' > ^T*P- V"Y- •'■■'■ ..N ’.^r •• - ' * ^ . . ^4 .. ^^-- . ^ "i.K 'll' - • 1-fii -4 .'• ,''iik T%^x^'•■-■■•’^ -■.'^'•',! * T, 1. . 5T ^ ; ; .• * . \OBSERVATIONS ON THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 99 \ CHAPTER I. OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. / Sect. I. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE NERVOUS SYS- TEM. Before proceeding to describe the Nervous Sys- tem, it may not be improper to premise a few ge- neral observations on that subject. In the higher classes of animals, a large mass, called the brain, connected with the nervous sys- tem, is contained Avithin the skull, and a large cord is contained within the vertebrae of the back, called the Spinal Marrow, and a number of nerves are connected with these. But in the lower ani- mals, there are merely a number of white cords distributed through different parts of the body. The proportional size of the brain, in respect to the spinal marrow, is very different in different animals. The brain, in the human subject, bears a larger proportion to the spinal marrow, than in any ani- G 2100 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. mal; and the spinal marrow very much exceeds in bulk any of the nerves connected with it; but the spinal marrow of some warm-blooded animals IS much larger in proportion to the brain, and especially in fishes. In these animals the trans- verse diameter of the brain scarcely exceeds that of the spinal marrow. The acuteness of the intellectual faculties pro- bably depends on the bulk of the brain ; whereas the force and rapidity of voluntary motion appear to depend upon the proportion of the nerves dis- tributed to the organs of sense. In those animals which are superior to man in strength, the nerves are larger ; and in the classes of Fishes and Insects, which are remarkable for the acuteness of their feeling, and the rapidity of their motions, the nerves of the limbs are much larger than in the human body. The higher orders of animals have the same number of senses as man; but many of the infe- rior animals are destitute of some of these. The nerves appear to be tough cords, which is owing chiefly to their investing membranes. Upon dissecting a nerve, it is found to be covered by membranes similar to those which cover the brain. The outer membrane is very tough, and fibrous in structure ; the second coat is much thinner, and the third is a vascular membrane, similar to the pia mater of the brain. Besides these cC)ats, there is a membrane which divides each nerve into its component filaments,101 ON THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 'which has been called Neurilema^ which may be distinctly seen after removing the medullary mat- ter, by immersing the nerve in an alkaline solution. A number of small bloodvessels are distributed upon the neurilema. The proper nervous substance, when laid bare> appears generally of a cineritious colour ; and when examined by the aid of a magnifying glass, seems to consist of a semipellucid substance, in which a more white and opake fibrous-looking matter is disposed in transverse and serpentine lines. These serpentine transverse lines are most dis- tinct when the nerve is relaxed, but are much less evident upon the nerve being moderately stretch- ed ; and when the nerve is much stretched, it ap- pears uniform in its colour and consistence. Hence, my Father has concluded that by these lines, the nerve is accommodated to the different stages of flexion and extension of the limb. Sect. II. OF THE PLEXUSES OF THE NERVES. The nerves are connected in three different •ways. 1. Nerves are joined together at acute angles, and form plexuses. 2. Nerves, running in opposite directions, are connected by their small branches, or apices of . G3outlines of anatomy; J02 these branches, forming networks, which, at first sight, seem to resemble the anastomoses of the . bloodvessels. 3. In certain parts of the body, several nerves enter into a knot, called a Ganglion, and from the opposite side of the knot nerves are sent out. The nerves, in their course, are united by plexuses, in which the fibres of the different nerves are intermixed, and every nerve under the plexus, consists of all the nerves which entered the plexus. Some of the nerves which run in opposite direc- tions are connected by their small branches ; as the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves, with the ‘ portio dura of the auditory nerves. In the ox, my Father remarked that the small branches which come off beyond the union of the two larger nerves, consist of the fibres of both. In the whole nervous system, the particular cords, of which the particular nerves consist, form, according to my Father *, within their proper sheaths a succession of plexuses, in which their fibres are intermixed and combined again. Thus the danger of diseases and injuries of the trunks of the nerves is materially diminished. * Vid. Nervous System, p, 44,103 ON THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.* Of Ganglia of Nerves. There are communications between a number of nerves; and where these communications take place, there is generally an enlargement or gan- glion. The ganglia are little flattened bodies connected with the nerves, consisting chiefly of medullary matter, which are different in size and shape in different nerves, and even in the same nerve, as in the sympathetic. All ganglia seem to be similar in their struc- ture. Many nervous cords may be traced on the sur- face of the ganglion, from their first attachment to the ganglion, till they have parted from it, without any substance intervening of a different texture from that of the nervous cords elsewhere. The nerves in their course upon the surface of the ganglion divide into smaller nerves, and are again collected into larger cords, in such a manner, that every nerve that comes out from the ganglion, consists of fibres from two or more of the nerves which enter the ganglion. The nerves within the ganglia retain their joint- ed appearance. The cords which come out from the under end cf a ganglion, are generally larger than those G 4OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 104 which enter the upper end ; but there are excep- tions to this rule in the course of the sympathe- tic nerve. Every nerve connected with a ganglion appears to contain cords, running in opposite directions; ascending, for instance, and descending ; or where nerves are connected to the upper, under or outer part or side of a ganglion, (which is the case of the thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic nerve,) the nerve at the side appears to consist of cords, which divide into ascending and descending cords, that are combined with the cords which compose the upper and under nerves *. My Father, after having described with great minuteness the structure of the ganglia, has ob- served : “ Upon the whole, all the nerves which issue from ganglia, seem to be formed by a com- • bination of threads from many sources ; and, be- sides this, the nerves, in their passage through a ganglion, seem to receive new energy from the vascular matter of the ganglion. Hence we understand the reason why ganglia art most numerous in the nerves of organs oj chief im- portance ; as in those of the heart, or of the intes- tinal tube. Thus, the intestinal tube receives its nerves from the eighth pair, and perhaps from al- most all the spinal nerves. If the first pair of spinal nerves had run to the uppermost part of that canal, and so on, without the intervention of * Vid. Nervous System, p. 54. and Plate xx. fig. 1. B.OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 105 ganglia, by a wound or disease injuring the first pair of nerves, the uppermost part that canal should have totally lost the power' of acting: Where- as, if the threads are supposed to be intermixed in the ganglia, we should by such an accident sus- tain a loss of the thirtieth part only of the power of the whole tract; which equable loss would be attended with much less danger than .the complete loss of powqr in the thirtieth part of it. Or, in the heart, the loss of one-fourth part of the strength of all its four principal sacs would be less dangerous than a complete palsy of one of its auricles or ventricles.” Sect. 111. The arteries divide, like a tree, into smaller branches; but the ramifications- of the nerves do not always diminish in size ; for many branches are thicker than the trunk from which they have originated. Sect. IV. OF THE TERMINATIONS OF THE NERVES. There are certain nerves which are appropria- ted to certain functions; and by means of others,106 . OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. we acquire certain sensations ; as by means of the nerves distributed upon the organs of sense. The terminations of the nerves, which are pro- per to the organs of sense, are only covered by the neurilema ; and hence the nerve seems to the naked eye to be of a delicate fabric •, but when examined by the aid of a powerful magnifying glass, it appaars to be composed of a number of very small threads, which form with .each other a most intricate plexus *. . Sect. Vi The nerves are connected either with the brain or with the spinal marrow ; of the former, nine or ten pairs have been enumerated, besides the sympathetic ; and of the latter, twenty-nine or thirty pairs, besides the nerves, called accessory. The nerves follow somewhat of the same course as the arteries. They are generally so disposed in the cellular substance and fat, or between the in- terstices of the viscera and muscles, or between the processes, or on the inner sides of the bones, as to be as far as possible removed from external injury. * Vid. my Father’s Treatises on the Eye and Ear.,OF THE BRAIN AND NERVES, 107* Sect. VI. ^ CHEMICAL ANALYSIS OF THE BRAIN AND NERVES. Very few chemical experiments have been made Upon the substance of the brain. Thouret* and Fourcroyf are the only che- mists who have made experiments on the brain. Brain consists of Phosphate of Lime ; Soda ; Ammonia. Dr T. Thomson has observed, “ These facts are sufficient to shew us, that, exclusive of the small proportion of saline ingredients, brain is composed of a peculiar matter, differing in many particulars from all animal substances, but having a consider- able resemblance in many of its properties to -albu- men. Brain has been compared to a soap ; but it is plain that the resemblance is very faint; as scarce- ly any oily matter could be extracted from brain by Fourcroy, though he attempted it by all the contrivances which the present state of chemistry- suggested, and the alkaline portion of it is a great deal too small to merit any attention * Journal de Pliys. tom. xxxviii. p. 329- + Ann. de Chim. tom. xvi. p. 282. + System of Chemistry, vol, v. p. 540.108 OUTLINES or ANATOMY. Sect. VII. OBSERVATIONS ON THE FUNCTIONS OF THE NERVES. The nerves are capable of exercising theiT functions independently of the brain. Various arguments may be employed in sup- port of such an opinion. 1. My Father found, after cutting the sciatic nerve of a frog transversely, and after he had cut out all that part of the spinal marrow to which the pelvis and lower extremities are connected, the circulation of the blood continued for many months in the hind-legs; and after wounding or fracturing the bones, the wounds closed, and callus reunited the disjointed parts of the bones, and many new-formed vessels could be seen in the scars, and in the callus. Now, without the action of the bloodvessels, circulation could not have been continued, nor could the callus have been formed. 2. The application of the ordinary chemical or mechanical stimuli to the nerve, which had been previously divided, and beyond the part of it which had been divided, excited convulsions of the muscles for a length of time. In this in- stance, there can be no influx of nervous fluid from the brain.FUNCTIONS OF THE NERVES. 109 3. By experiment, it may be proved, that the nerves, without the aid of the brain,\ can excite nervous energy for any given length of time. My Father cut out the whole spinal marrow of a frog, which is lower than the third vertebrae of the head ; he kept the animal for several weeks, un- til the wound in the teguments and vertebrae had closed. The animal did not recover the feeling nor vo- luntary motion in the hind-legs. He then passed a gold probe through the body of the animal, at the upper part of the pelvis, across the sciatic nerves, and in contact with them. He then laid the animal on its back, upon a plate of zinc, and found, on touching the zinc with the gold probe, that the muscles of the hind- legs were violently convulsed. From this experiment it follows, that the ner- vous energy remained in the nerves for weeks af- ter the communication between them and the brain had been intercepted. He prosecuted the experiment, by confining the animal in a vessel made of zinc, which he fil- led half full of water, after he had twisted toge- ther the opposite ends of a gold probe ; and in this manner, every time the animal altered the position of its body, which it was enabled to do by means of its fore-legs, the gold probe alternate- ly touching, and being separated from the zinc, threw the muscles of the legs into convulsions.OUTLINES or ANATOMY. no By this apparatus, the legs were daily convul- sed several hundred times. After confining the animal in the above state for several weeks, the convulsions continued to be as freqi-ent and violent the last day of the experi- ment as they had been the first. From the above facts, it appears, that nerves may exist after all connection with the brain has been intercepted, and may for a great length of time, not only retain their usual size and struc- ture, but are capable of furnishing nervous tner- gy, sufficient to carry on circulation and secretion, and to excite convulsions of the muscles, when powerful stimuli are applied to the nerves: Therefore, the brain has improperly been named the origin of the nerves; the nerves may with equal propriety be named the origin of the brain. Further, the bulk of the human nerv^es does not bear the same proportion to the brain as those of many quadrupeds and fishes, which feel acute- ly, and exercise their muscles with as much force as we do. The size of the nerves bears a propor- tion to the size of the organs on which they arc spent; but the brain is very small. Further, in some vermes of considerable size, as in the sepia loligo, the brain is exceedingly small; and in the echinus esculentus, it is entirely want- ing. It therefore becomes doubtful, whether we ought, with authors, to consider the brain as the fountain of the proper energy to the nerves^ orFUNCTIONS OF THE NERVES. Ill whether we ought to consider the brain merely as the medium between mind and body. \ We shall next examine the nerves as being the sources of sensation and motion. Of Sensation. Irritation occasions a reaction in animals with or without consciousness, and perhaps without af- fecting the mind. Where the mind is influenced, we are said to feely in the common sense of the word. But in many instances, where the nerve of a muscle is diseased, or has been divided, or after the heart or other muscle has been separated from the body, the puncturing the muscle produces convulsive actions. Such an effect cannot be explained on mechani- cal principles: hence there probably has been some kind of feeling, which has produced an ac- tion which may be compared to the feeling which vegetables seem to possess, *in consequence of which their juices are moved and changed by se- cretion. Having endeavoured to show, that, by the me- dium of the nerves, the mind is rendered sensible of impressions on the body, and enabled to throw the muscles into action ; it is incumbent on us, in the next place, to examine into the nature of thatOUTLINES or ANATOMY. 112 energy by which the nerves perform these two very opposite functions. The following experiments throw considerable light on this interesting subject. 1. A solution of opium in water applied to the surfaces of the brain and spinal marrow of a frog, renders the muscles of the extremities of its body paralytic, almost instantaneously. 2. The water of lauro-cerasus, poured into the stomach of a pigeon, kills it instafltaneously. 3. The poison of the viper, introduced into the vein of the leg of a frog, instantly gives pain, 4. The dividing the spinal marrow, before the poison of the viper is inserted into the vein of its leg, prevents it from killing the frog, 5. After cutting out the heart of a frog, and thus putting an end to the circulation of the blood, if a solution of opium be applied to the surface of the encephalon and spinal marrow, or poured in- to the abdomen, the mitscles of its limbs are depri- ved of their contractile power. It is evident, that, in these several experiments, the poisons act upon the muscles, by the medium of the nerves, and not by the medium of the blood, as Fontana has supposed. When, therefore, a poison poured into a vein, or the heart of an animal, produces similar effects on the muscles, we may safely conclude, that these are not owing to the action of the poison upon the blood, but to its action on the nerves of the blood-OF SENSATION. 113 vessels, with which the other branches of the ner- vous system sympathise. The next point to be considered, is, JVhether 'the nervous energy is produced by a fluid, of the same nature with, or nearly resembling that called Electrical? as has been of late years supposed by many eminent physiologists; especially since the power of the torpedo of giving an electrical shock was discovered by Mr Walsh, and the effects of animal electricity by Galvani. That the matter rendered active by the torpedo or gymtiotus, is electrical, appears highly probable or certain, by the experiments of Mr Walsh. The matter set loose in animal electricity, re- sembles so exactly the electrical, in its velocity, and in passing through or being stopped by the same substances, and in producing convulsions in the muscles of animals ; that it does not appear to me that there are just grounds for doubting of their identity. But after so much is granted, it by no means follows, that the nervous energy, or fluid, as it has been called, is electrical, or that an electrical fluid, by its direct influence, produces the convulsions of the muscles. On the contrary, my Father has endeavoured to demonstrate by experiments, that the electrical and nervous matter arc essentially different from each other ; and that, in Galvani’s experiments, the electrical matter merely proved u stimulus to the nerves. VOL, III. H.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, 114 The nervous energy and electrical matter differ essentially in their properties.' Thus, opium and other poisons applied to the brain or muscles, destroy the nervous energy, but not electrical matter. On the other hand, mechanical and chemical substances applied to the brain, trunks of the nerves, or muscles, give pain and rouse the mus- cles into convulsive actions. Simple pressure of the brain impairs the energy of the nerves, and when that is removed, the ef- fects cease. Moderate pressure on the trunk of a nerve be- numbs the part on which the nerve is dispersed, and takes away the power the mind has, of throw- ing the muscles into action, on which the nerve terminates. On removing the pressure, the mind recovers its feeling, and power of acting ; from which it ap- , pears, that the pressure has produced its effects without destroying the texture of the nerve. A tight ligature, or a transverse section of a nerve, destroys its powers, even although the divi- ded parts of the nerve are again brought into con- tact ; whereas a ligature thrown around a nerve, or even the dividing it, does not arrest the pro- gress of the electrical matter, providing the cut ends are brought into contact. After one of the limbs of a living animal is cut off, its muscles may be repeatedly convulsed by irritating its nerves, by means of mechanical or115 OF SENSATION. chemical substances: whereas electrical matter, if collected or accumulated, as in a Leyden jar, dis- charges itself at once. 1. We find that the electrical matter, whether excited by animal electricity, or collected, as in the common experiments with electrical matter, passes readily along the sciatic nerve of frogs ; the parts of which, after being cut transversely, are tied to- gether by a thread. 2. Upon placing a zinc plate under the loins of a frog, which had been separated from the upper part of the body, and with the sciatic nerves cXt posed, and touching it with a gold probe held in the right hand, as often as the left hand was ap- plied to the toes of the animal, its muscles are convulsed. 3. The parts of the frog being disposed as in the last experiment, and tied together as in the first experiment, upon touching the zinc with the side of a gold probe, held in the hand, and then applying the point of the probe to the sciatic nerve under the ligature, the muscles are instantly convulsed ; though the electrical matter had not passed into them, but had moved in the circle formed by the zinc, the gold probe, the loins, and the parts of the sciatic nerve above the point of the gold probe. 4. To prove that the electrical matter had not passed lower than the point of the gold probe, the parts of the frog being disposed as above, on touch- ing the sciatic nerve above the ligature with the H2116 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. probe, convulsions of the muscles were not ex- cited. But as a ligature on the nerve did not in the first experiment interrupt the electrical fluid ; and, as in the fourth experiment, the electri- cal fluid did not pass lower than the point of the gold probe, there is no reason for supposing, that it should have passed lower than the point of the probe in the third experiment; and, there- fore, that, in the third experiment, the convul- sions were excited, not by the electrical matter pas- sing into the muscles, hut by the nervous energy roused into action by the stimulus of the electrical fluid. 5. Upon cutting two living frogs across at the loins, and after laying the posterior parts in opposite directions, and placing these on a zinc plate, on touching with a gold probe held in the right hand, the foot of one of the frogs, if the left hand was applied to the toes of the other, there were no convulsions produced. This experiment shews, that the fluid produced in animal electricity, does not excite convulsions of the muscles, u'hether it passes upwards or down- wards through them. 6. But when after placing the posterior parts of the frog in opposite directions, as in the fifth ex- periment, and cutting across all the parts of the pelvis of both frogs, excepting only the trunks of the sciatic nerves, and touching a plate of zinc, put under one frog, with a golden probe held in117 OF SENSATION. the right hand, and then applying th^ left hand to the toes of the other frog, the muscles were im- mediately convulsed. In this last - experiment, the whole electrical matter produced in animal electricity, passed through the nerves alone, and eicited convulsions of the muscles in which they terminate^ whether the electrical matter is passmg upwards or downwards along the nerve and muscle. From these experiments, it is proved, that whilst the electrical fluid is passing from the toes, upwards along the muscles, it does not throw them into convulsions, but that it does so, as soon as it begins to pass along the trunk alone of the nerve. At that instant, therefore, the elec- tricalfluid is moving in the direction upwards, and the nervous energy is moving downwards, from the trunk of ihe nerve into the muscle, or in the trunk of the nerve, the electrical, and the nervous ener- gy are moving and acting in contrary directions. Hence we are led to infer, that the nervous ENERGY IS DIFFERENT FROM THE ELECTRICAL, AND THAT THE NERVE IS MERELY STIMULATED BY THE ELECTRICAL FLUID. The electrical fluid and the nervous, are not the same \ and, further, the electrical shock com- municated by the Torpedo and Gymnotus, does not proceed from the fluid of their nerves. In the first place. The brain, and nerves of the torpedo resemble exactly the same parts in the skate, and other flat fishes \ and hence it is pro- H3118 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. bable, in the highest degree, that the nervous energy is of the same nature in them, as in other animals, and that similar experiments exciting animal electricity, would prove, that the nervous fluid is very different from the electrical. In the next place. These animals are provided with very extensive machinery jjroper to them, and undoubtedly for the purpose of giving an electrical shock, and therefore we ought, instead of supposing, that the nerves which terminate up- on it, convey to it an electrical fluid, to suppose that thene. nerves serve merely to invigorate this machinery, and to enable it to collect electrical fluid ; for if the nervous fluid or energy had been electrical, these nerves should, without the inter- vention of any machinery, have conveyed their fluid to the surface of their bodies directly, in or- der to give the shock. Upon the whole, it appears that a slight elec- trical shock excites the energy of the nerves, and that a strong one destroys it ; and that there are no just grounds for supposing, that the nervous energy is of an electrical nature. Dr Monro senior, read the following theory in 1793, to Drs Hutton and Black ; but Dr Hut- ton dissuaded him from publishing it, although it did not seem to him then to be objection- able : “ Whence the active matter is derived, or from what cause it is put in motion, is indeed very dif-U9 OF SENSATION. ficult to determine ; especially sinve the metals and water, or moist animal substances, are sup- posed to be merely conductors of electricity. Is it conceivable, that the different metals and water, or moist animal substances, contain different pro- portions of latent electrical fluid, or fluid resem- bling it; and that when the metals and animal substances are brought into contact, such a motion of the electrical or subtile fluid takes place, as produces an equilibrium in the common mass ; and that when the metals are again separated from each other, and from the animal substance, each instantly resumes that quantity of the elec- trical or subtile fluid which is proper to it; and that the rapid circulation of the electrical fluid irritates the nerve, and throws into convulsions the muscles in which it terminates ?” From the preceding observations, it appears doubtful, Whether the brain and nerves are composed of exceedingly minute tubes ; or merely of a pulpy matter inclosed within sheaths, formed by a membrane resembling the pia mater, which, besides serving with the external membrane, re- sembling the dura mater, for the defence of the pulpy matter, and for nourishing it, is capable of communicating to it the nervous energy. 2d, It appears that the energy of the nerves is not owing to an electrical matter. And, 3^, That it is probable in the highest de- gree, that the nervous energy depends on mat-120 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. ter, which is secreted by the vessels, which are dispersed on the pia mater of the encephalon and nerves. CHAPTER II. OF THE BRAIN AND ORGANS OF THE SENSES. Sect. I. OF THE BRAIN AND ITS INVESTING MEMBRANES. TThe name Brain has been applied to that mass which fills the sbull, which, in the human body, is larger in proportion to the nerves connected with it than in other animals. The brain has been divided by anatomists into two parts ; the larger brain or Cerebrum, the smal- ler brain or Cerebellum, The brain is covered on its upper part by the frontal, parietal and occipital bones; its fore-part rests on the orbitar processes of the frontal bone, and its posterior part upon the process of the dura mater, called tentorium cerebello superextensum.OF THE DURA MATER. 121 The brain is also covered by three V:oats, cal- led the dura mater, the arachnoid coat, and pia mater. The dura mater adheres very intimately to the internal table of the skull, by a number of bloodvessels afid cellular threads, especially at the sutures. Of the Dura Mater. The Dura Mater, which has been so named, as it has been supposed to be the origin of all other serous insensible membranes, gives a general co- vering to the brain. The hemispheres of the brain and cerebellum are separated from each other by partitions, derived from the dura mater; and there is also a horizontal or middle septum between the posterior part of the larger brain and little brain, which is derived from the same source. The dura mater is composed of two layers; and between its component layers, the venous sinuses of the brain are lodged. Upon the upper surface of the dura mater, there are small bodies, which have been described by Pacchioni as being glandular. The superior vertical process of the dura mater, called, from its form, the Falx Cerebri^ separates to a certain extent the hemispheres 'of the brain. It is fixed to the crista galli of the ethmoid bone; becomes gradually broader as it extends backwards; adheres at its upper part to the frontal, parietal, and occipital bones; and is at length fixed toOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 122 the middle horizontal partition between the great and smaller brains. The tentorium cerebello superextensum, or trans- verse middle septum, is fixed to the grooves and transverse ridges of the os occipitis, to the ridges or partes petrosae of the temporal bones, and to the posterior clinoid processes of the sphenoid bone. Between the transverse septum and posterior clinoid processes, there is an oval-shaped aperture, where the cerebrum and cerebellum are united. The falx and tentorium cerebello superexten- sum, the connected and continuous processes of the dura mater, support and stretch each other, and prevent the opposite sides of the brain from gra- vitating upon each other when we lie on either side; and also support the posterior lobes of the larger brain from pressing on the smaller brain. The falx minor or septum, between the hemi- spheres of the smaller brain, is fixed to the middle perpendicular ridge of the os occipitis, and termi- nates at the edge of the foramen magnum ossis occipitis. There are also venous sinuses on the base of the skull, formed by the dura mater. On each side of the sella sphenoidalis, the dura mater is extended between the anterior and posterior clinoid processes. The dura mater lines the superior orbitary fis- sures, and the foramina of the skull; and the du- ra mater also forms a sheath for the spinal mar- row.123 . OF THE BURA MATER. The dura mater is supplied with blowd from the external carotid artery ; as also from the internal carotid and vertebral arteries. Iht superior longitudinal sinus, imbedded be- tween the layers of the dura mater, takes its rise at the crista j^alli of the ethmoid bone, runs along the upper part of the falciform process of the dura mater, becoming gradually larger, and divides, opposite to the most prominent part of the os occipitis, into two lateral branches or si- nuses. The smaller veins of the brain open into the superior longitudinal sinus at its upper and back part, and their orifices are chiefly directed ob- liquely forwards. The right and left branches of the superior lon- gitudinal sinus, called the lateral sinuses, which are imbedded in the grooves of the occipital and temporal bones, follow a tortuous course, and at length terminate in the internal jugular vein. The fourth sinus or Torcular Herophili, is a short canal, situated at the junction of the falx and ten- torium, which it passes, downwards and backwards, and joins the lateral sinuses. The inferior longitudinal sinus, lodged in the under part of the falx, is very small when com- pared with the upper, and is sometimes awant- ing.124 OUTLINES or ANATOMY. The Arachnoid Coat. The term Arachnoid has been applied to this coat on account of its extreme thinness, and re- semblance to a spider’s web. At the base of the brain, this coat may be easily detached from the other membranes. On account of the extreme thinness of this membrane, it is difficult to detect its structure. I am inclined to suppose it a serous membrane ; for it is subject to the same orga- nic derangements as membranes of that descrip- tion. There are no vessels proper to this coat, which are of such a size as to admit the red blood. This membrane does not enter between the con- • volutions of the brain or cerebellum. Of the Pia Mater. The third membrane of the brain, called Pia Mater, is thin and very vascular ; and from it, many bloodvessels pass into the substance of the brain. This membrane enters between the convolu- tions of the brain ; and those processes or elonga- tions have been called the Tumenta Cerebri. The pia mater also gives a lining to the ventricles of the brain.OF THE BRAIN. 125 The pia mater receives its blood froi^ the inter- nal carotid and vertebral arteries. Of tht Brain. The Brain, properly so called, which occupies the upper part of the cavity of the cranium, cor- responds in figure to the skull, to which it gives form. The upper part of it is generally of an oval fi- gure like an egg, cut lengthwise. It is composed of two portions, called by anato- mists Hemispheres, which are separated from each other by a deep fissure which receives the falx; and each of which is subdivided into lobes. Each hemisphere is arched above, irregular be- neath, and flat next the falx, and subdivided into three lobes. The anterior lobe rests upon the or- bitar process of the frontal bone ; the middle lol)e, which is separated from the anterior by the FOSSA SYLvii, occupies the cavity formed by the sphenoid and temporal bones; and the posterior lobe rests upon the tentorium cerebello superex- tensum. The surface of the brain is not uniform ; there are on it numerous convolutions, in the grooves between which the pia mater and small vessels of the brain are lodged. The under surface of the brain is much more irregular than the upper one, consisting of a num- ber of prominences.126 OUTLINES or ANATOMY, The brain, when divided by an incision, is found to be neither uniform as to colour nor consistence. The outer part of it is somewhat of a colour resem- bling burnt wood ; soft and very vascular; but in- ternally white or medullary, as anatomists speak, though improperly, as this part of the brain is not like marrow. In the section of the medullary part of the brain, a number of red points, or the orifices of cut vessels may be perceived ; and upon exami- ning with attention the medullary matter, a num- ber of Jibres, disposed in different directions, may be perceived, and more especially by the aid of ' magnifying glasses. The falx cerebri divides the brain only to a cer- tain extent. Upon removing it, a broad white medullary plate, extending horizontally across the brain, and which unites its hemispheres, presents itself: this has been named, from its white and hard appearance, Corpus callosum. A horizontal section of the hemispheres of the brain, made on a level with the corpus callosum, exposes the greatest proportion of medullary to the cineritious substance, and the medullary substance assumes an oval shape. We thus form what has been called the Centrum ovale of Vieussens. There is groove or raphe extending longitu- dinally along the corpus callosum, and on each side of it a medullary chord, from which many transverse fibres proceed.OF THE BRAIN. 127 On cutting down on each side of the corpus callosum, we get into two oblong cavities, placed horizontally, and which Baron Haller has named, on account of their figure, Ventriculi tricornes, each of them having three cornua. The anterior and posterior cornua of the late- ral ventricles, are placed nearly horizontally ; the middle cornua descend, and then run forwards into the middle lobes of the hemispheres. By a vertical section, the corpus callosum is found to be bent downwards at its anterior and posterior parts; the continuation of which latter forms what anatomists have called the Fornu', from its resemblance to a vault. Between the corpus callosum and fornix, the septum, called lucidum, is placed, which is nar- row before, becomes gradually broader, and is composed of two plates of medullary substances. The fornix has four crura or pillars, two anterior and two posterior ; and the latter are the larger, and descending into the inferior cornua of the lateral ventricles, form distinct processes, which have thin puckered edges, and have been called the Corpora fimbriata. The under part of the fornix is joined to the Thalami Nervorum Opticorum, by a membrane called Tela choroidea. There is an oval aperture of communication between the lateral ventricles of the brain and the third ventricle, which has been described by my Father, in his book on the Ner-128 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. vous System, and also in his Treatise on the Brain, published in 1797 The under surface of the fornix is impressed by a number of grooves, disposed somewhat like the strings of a lyre. Upon the fornix being removed, a vascular web is exposed, which envelopes the Corpora quadrigemina. The latenl ventricles being ful- ly exposed, the following parts come into view. In the anterior cornu of each lateral ventricle, there are two very obvious projections, the Cor- pus Striatum, and Thalamus Nervi Optici. The corpora striata, are pyriform bodies, broad be- fore, and narrow behind ; and being composed partly of cineritious, and partly of medullary mat- ter, exhibit, when divided, a striated appear- ance. The Thalami Nervorum Opticorum intervene between the posterior parts of the corpora striata, and are of a whiter colour than the corpora striata. * " An oval hole, situated under the anterior part of the body of the fornix ; behind the anterior crura of the fornix and commissura anterior cerebri; on the fore-part of the joining of the choroid plexuses of the two lateral ventricles of the brain ; and over the fore-part of the third ventricle. Hence, at this place, the lateral ventricles of the brain communicate with each other and with the third ventricle.”—Treatise on the Brain, the ijyc, and the Ear, p. 22.129 OF THE BRAIN. The thalami nervorum opticorum taf the cor- responding lateral ventricles, are united by a soft transverse plate of medullary substance, called the commismra mollis. Under the commissura mollis, there is a deep fissure between the thalami nervorum opticorum : this is the third ventricle ; and from it, the funnel- like cavity, called infundibulum, runs downwards and forwards to the pituitary gland. > The pituitary gland, is a small oblong-shaped body, inclosed by the dura matter, and situated in the sella sphenoidalis: it is greyish without, and medullary within. There is a transverse medullary chord imme- diately befoi'e the anterior crura of the fornix, which runs through, and unites the corpora striata, called anterior commissure; and at the posterior part of the third ventricle, under the root of the pineal gland, there is a similar, though rather , shorter chord, called the posterior commissure. In each lateral ventricle, there is a plexus of small arteries and veins, called the choroid plexus. The choroid plexuses are expanded upon the thalami nervorum opticorum, pineal gland, and corpora quadrigemina In each plexus, there is a large venous trunk, which is directed backwards; and the venous trunks of the corresponding choroid plexuses, unite behind the pineal gland, and their contents are discharged into the torcular Herophili. In the descending cornua, besides the posterior crura of the fornix, there are two rounded bodies, 'VOL. III. IOUTLINES or ANATOMY. 130 which are joined to the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum ; these are small at their origin, and become considerably larger, and have been calle 1 ptdes hippocampi. The posterior cornua of the lateral ventricles, are reflected towards ea'ch other ; and in the extremity of each, there is a sharp point, called ergot. Upon removing with care the choroid plexus, the corpora (juadrigemina, or nates and testes, ap- pear at the back of the third ventricle. From the third ventricle, there is a passage in- to the fourth ; and over this passage, the nates and testes, or tubercula quadrigemina are placed, and also the pineal gland. The glandula pinealis, is a rounded body si- tuated over the nates, and fixed to the posterior commissure, and by two long processes to the in- ner side of the thalami and anterior crura of the fornix. In the centre of this gland, there is often a hard sandy substance ; the proportion of which varies in different cases. Under-Surfac&oJ the Brain and Cerebellum. In the under surface of the brain, there are four eminences corresponding with the cavities in the base of the skull, viz. the anterior lobes of the brain, the middle lobes of the brain, the inferior surfaces of the cerebellum, and the pons Varolii j and between these, there is a deep depression, in67 THE CEREBELLUIVt. 131 which the infundibulum, pituitary gland, corpora albicantia, and optic nerves, are. situated. Sect. II. OF THE CEREBELLUM. The cerebellum occupies the inferior cavities .of the occipital bone, and is placed below the pos- terior lobes of the brain *. The cerebellum is in form and sixe very diffe- rent from the cerebrum ; and in different animals bears a different proportional size to the brain. It is rather flattened above, rounded below, and proportionally much broader than the brain, and it presents! a laminated surface ; between which, the pia mater insinuates itself. It, has the same coats as the brain. Like the brain, it is divided into two great lobes; or hemispheres, each of which is subdivided into lobules. In the cerebellum, there is a greater proportion of cineritious substance, than in the brain ; and the medullary matter seems, when the cerebellum is cut vertically, to be distributed through it, some- Avhat like the branches of a tree. I 2 * Gall’s views of the relative situation of the cerebellum, in respect to the brain, and of the appearance of the .surface and intimate structure of the cerebellum, are by far the best wliich have been hitherto published.132 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. There are two small eminences, which have been named appendices ^ermiformes, from their re- semblance to worms •, one of which is placed on the anterior and superior part of the cerebellum, the other on its inferior and posterior part. The cerebellum is joined to the cerebrum by two medullary chords, which are inserted into the substance of the cerebellum, and their fibres are intermixed with those of the medulla oblongata. There is a ventricle, foui'th, placed between the cerebellum, pons Varolii, and upper part of the medulla oblongata, and which extends from the testes to the posterior part of the cerebellum. In the under-part of the fourth ventricle, there is an angular impression, which has been supposed to bear a resemblance to a writing-pen, and is hence named calamus scriptorius. This ventricle is shut by its choroid plexus. Sect. III. TUBER ANNULARE, OR PONS VAROLII. 'I^HE tuber annulare, can only be well seen by inverting the brain. It is formed by the union of four columns, the crura cerebri and cerebelli, which form a sort of bridge ; and this in its centre is somewhat depressed. The tuber is situated upon the back-part of the body of the sphenoid and cuneiform process of the occipital bone.ARTERIES OP THE BRAIN. 18S From the tuber annulare, the Medulla oblonga- ta, which resembles a cone, with its base next to the tuber annulare, takes its rise : it extends to the foramen magnum ossis occipitis; and upon the surface of the medulla on each side, there are two eminences disposed longitudinally; the one like an olive, the other like a pyramid ; hence the terms corpora pyramidalia and olvcaria. Sect. IV. OF THE ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN. The brain is supplied with blood from four dif- ferent sources, by the vertebral and internal ca- rotid arteries: These arteries follow a tortuous course before entering the brain, in order that the blood may not be sent with too great force to that delicate and important organ; and they communicate frequently and freely with each other. Sect. V, or THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. THE veins of the brain do not follow the same course as the arteries : they lead to the venous sinuses, enveloped by the dura mater, which are so constructed, and so situated, that they can nei- ther be over-distended nor compressed. I 3134 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. Sect. VI. OF THE NERVES CONNECTED WITH THE BRAIN, The nerves have been divided into two great classes, viz. those said to be connected with the brain, which have been named the cerebral iiewes^ and those connected with the spinal marrow, cal- led spinal nerves. < Nine or ten pairs of nerves are described by anatomists, as taking their origin from the bruin, besides the sympathetic nerve; and twenty-nine or thirty pairs of nerves from the spinal marrow, besides the accessory nerves. But from what has been above stated, it follows, that the term origin is incorrect, as the brain might as well be said to arise from the nerves, as the nervesfrom the brain. It may be further observed, that anatomists differ very much in their statements, respecting the particular part of the brain or cerebellum, from which the nerves are said to originate ; it be- ing very difficult to trace a nerve to its real source from the medullary matter of the brain or cerebellum ; for they sink deep into the substance of the brain, and the fibres probably are intimate- ly intermixed with those of other nerves. Soemmering supposed, that the roots of the nerves, especially of the nerves of the organs of'nerves connected with the brain. 1S5 the senses, reached the prominences in the parietes of the ventricles of the brain *. 14. * The Plates of tlie brain of Drs Gall and Spurzein, are, taken as a whole, far superior to any that have been published ; and by their method of exhibiting the brain, they have thrown much light upon the relative situation of parts. Their 6th Plate exhibiting the ventricles of the brain, seems to be peculiarly worthy of attention; as also Plate 10th, in which a vertical section of the brain is given. The above engravings also exhibit more distinctly than those of ViEussENS, my Father, or Vicq D’azyb, the continuity of the fibres which extend from the medulla oblongata into the hemispheres of the brain and cerebellum, and also the decussa- tion of the filaments of the corpora pyramidalia, which have been described by Santorini. Drs Gall and Spurzein have discovered two different kinds of fibres in the medullary substance of the hemispheres of the brain; the one of which diverges from the peduncles of the brain, and the other converges towards the commissures. The same distinguished authors agree with my Father in opi- nion, that the nerves do not take their origin from the brain. I cannot refrain from adding, that their opinion respecting the unfolding the brain somewhat like a membrane, seems to be extremely doubtful ; and also, that it is not a little remarkalile, that those gentlemen who have devoted so much attention to the anatomy of the brain, should not have understood the descrip- tions and Plates my Father has published respecting the commu- nication between the lateral ventricles of the brain, to which they have repeatedly referred. They seeem to have looked for that passage of communication between the lateral ventricles of the brain in the septum lucidum, where they did not,—could not have found it, and therefore have denied its existence. Moreau, on the other hand, the learned editor of the last edition of Vicq D’azyr’s book on the Brain, speaking of the communication between tire ventricles, has observed, Le?OUTLINES or ANATOMY. 1S5 Sect. VII. OF THE PHYSIOLOGY OF BRAIN. The brain is the seat of the intellectual fa- culties. ouyertures qui etablissent la communication des ventricules lat ( raux avec le troisieme, sont dccrites dans I’ouvrage public par Mo\ro, en 1783. Cct anatomiste celebre en a donne plu- sicurs dessins exacts, et il a fait voir combien ces ouverlurcs sont augment6es par certaines dispositions morbifiques, et prin- cipalement par les amas d’eau dans les cavites c^rebrales.” As the reader may possibly be gratified by a brief summary of the opinions of Drs Gall and Spurzein, respecting the ana- tomy of the brain and nerves, I have subjoined, in their own words, the corollaries they have published on that subject: Corollaires anatomiqucs. 1. L’ensemble du systeme nerveux ne presente que deux sub- stances ; I’une gelatineuse dont la couleur varie, mais le plus souvent est grise ; 1’autre blanche et fibreuse, ou les filamens nerveux ; par consequent il n’cxiste pas de veritable substance niedullaire. 2. La substance gelatineuse grise, engendre les filets nerveux; ceuxei ne naissent d’aucune autre mani^, par exemple, par la metamorphose des vaisseaux sanguins, ou immediatement de la lymphe du saiig. . • 3. Plus la substance gelatineuse est abondante, plus elle en- gendre de filets nerveux ; par consequent la quantite de sub- stance grise et le nombre des nerfs sont en raison directe et reci- proque. 4. Aucun norf ne nait d’un autre nerf; mais chacun prend . son originc dans une masse propre de substance gelatineuse;OF THE PHYSIOLOGY OF BRAIN. , 137 It forms an important part of the nervous sys- tem, the general functions of which I have endea- voured to explain. Much labour has been bestowed by anatomists and philosophers to distinguish the purposes of the particular processes of the brain; but as yet they have made little progress in their investi- gations. par consequent les systemes nerveux de la poitrine et du bas- ventre ne peuvent etre derives ni I’un de I’autre, ni mediatement du cerveau, ni immediatement de la moelle epiniere. 5. I.es systemes nerveux different entre eux dans leur origine, leur structure, leur couleur, et leur fermete. 6. Le nombre des divers systemes nerveux, par exemple, les systemes des visceres, de la moelle epiniere, varient dans les differens animaux. 7. Les memes systemes partiels sont diversement modifies dans les differentes classes d’animaux, et ne sont pas toujours developpes d’une maniere semblable dans les individus de la m^e espece. 8. Les differens individus de la meme espece n’offrent jamais exactement le meme rapport entre les conditions des divers sytemes nerveux. 9- Les ganglions et les plexus ne different pas essentielle- ment; car les uns et les autres engendrent des nerfs ; ou bien Us renforcent par de nouvelles productions les nerfs deja existans. 10, Tous les systemes nerveux sont unis les uns aux autres par des branches de communication. Ainsi les divers systemes de la moelle epiniere sont unis par des rameaux communiquans, ces rameaux ne doivent pas etre consideres comme des cordons qui composent I’ensemble de la moelle epiniere. 11. Les divers systemes nerveux ne se developpcnt pas si- multanement ; les uns sont formes plutot, les autres plus tard j de meme qu’ils diminuent a des epoques differentes.138 • OUTLINES or ANATOMY. CHAPTER III. OF THE ORGANS OF THE SENSES. The external senses, are those of Smelly Vision; Hearing, Taste and Touch; to each of which, organs of a peculiar structure are appropriated, and which are susceptible only of particular im- pressions. Sect. I. OF THE NOSE, The Nose is formed of hard and soft pa^s. The nose has been divided by anatomists into the radix or upper part ; the dorsum or middle prominence ; the apex or point. The os frontis, os- sa nasi, and ossa maxillaria, form the upper and fore-part of the nose. The os ethmoides, and the ossa unguis, form the upper and lateral parts of the nose. The ossa spongiosa infcriora, os sphe- noides, ossa palati, ossa maxillaria,superiora andOF THE NOSE. 139 vomer, constitute the under, inner and back part of the nose. The internal nares are two cavities placed be- tween the external nares and the posterior open- ings of the nose into the throat. The turbinated processes of ethmoid bone, and the ossa turbinata iriferiora, project into the cavi- ties of the nose, and add much to the extent of the internal surface of the nostrils. In quadrupeds that smell very acutely, the in- ternal surface of the nose is very much extended by the complex structure of the turbinated bones. Three passages into the nose have been descri- bed by Haller ; an upper passage above the tur- binated processes of the ethmoid bone ; a passage’ between the turbinated processes of the ethmoid bone and inferior spongy bones; and a passage below the inferior turbinated bones ; and this pas- sage being straight, a probe may readily be pas- sed along it into the throat. The septum narium is composed of the descend-, ing plate of the ethmoid bone, of the vomer, and cartilage. , The soft parts of the nose are ; its cartilages, ligaments, membranes, muscles, and skin. There are five cartilages of the nose; the largest of which, the basis on which the lateral cartilages rest, is placed in the middle. The middle cartilage, also, forms a considerable share of the septum narium ; and is fixed to the vomer j to the spinous process of the ossa maxil-OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 14D laria superiora ; and to the anterior paH of the asal lamella of the ethmoid bone. • The anterior lateral cartilage is bent forwards, and forms what is commonly called the tip of the nose, and the posterior form the wings of the nose. These cartilages are covered by cellular mem- brane, fat, a number of sebaceous glands, by skin, and by the following muscles, by which they are moved, viz. by the compressor narium, and part of the occipito-frontalis, which is fixed into the nose, and by the levator and depressor labii supe- rioris alaeque nasi. The nose is lined by a spongy and very vascu' lar membrane, which is constantly lubricated by mucus, which exudes from a number of pores on the surface of this membrane. This membrane is not of an uniform thickness, being thinner at the external nares. In the fore-part of the nostrils, there are a num- ber of hairs. The nose is supplied with nerves by the first or" olfactory pair of nerves, and by the fifth pair. The olfactory nerves take their rise by three roots from the corpora striata, situated in the an- terior cornua of the lateral ventricles: they are flattened ; are disposed in grooves in the under part of the anterior lobes of the brain, and ap- proach each other as they pass forwards; and thus terminate in an oval-shaped body, which rests up- on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone.OF THE NOSE. 141* ^rom these oval-shaped bodies, a great number of small nerves pass through the holes in the cri- briform plate. These nerves divide into two fasci- culi ; the one set is distributed upon the septum narium, upon which they form a very intricate plexus. My Father was, I believe, the first who accurately described the course of these small nerves. The other part of the olfactory nerves is distri- buted upon the turbinated processes of the eth- moid bone. The ethmoidal, sphenoidal and frontal sinuses, communicate with the nose, and are lined by the continuation of the membrane which lines the no- strils. The frontal communicate with the ethmoidal sinuses, wdiich communicate with the nose at its upper and lateral parts behind the os unguis. The sphenoidal sinuses open into the upper and back part of the nose, and the maxillary sinuses communicate with the nose by an aperture placed • nearly in the middle between the turbinated pro- cesses of the ethmoid bone and the inferior turbi- nated bones. The air, the vehicle of all odours, when impreg- nated with certain odours, and inhaled, excites the sensation we call smelling •, and to render the sen- sation the stronger, the internal surface of the nos- trils is of very considerable extent; and in gene-142 OUTLINES or ANATOMY. ral it may be observed, that the more complex the structure of the nose, the more acute the sense of smell is. The sinusus which communicate with the nose, tend to render the voice louder and more melo- dious. CHAPTER IV. OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. THE eye-ball is composed of coats which con- tain certain Humours^ calculated for collecting the rays of light into a focus, upon the nerve situated at the bottom of the eye-ball. The eye-ball somewhat resembles a sphere; from the fore-part of which there is a convex pro- [ minent clear body, called the Cornea. Sect. L OF THE COATS OF THE EYE-BALL. The eye projects more beyond the outer than the inner side of the orbit.COATS OF THE EYE-BALt. 143 Three coats have been enumerated, as being proper to the eye-ball; and there is a fourth, by which it is retained in its proper place, called Tunica adnata. Tht'tunica adnata is merely a reflection of the skin from the eye-lids, which extends over the eye-ball, serving to fix it in its place, and to pre- vent extraneous bodies from passing from the fore to the back part of the orbit. A small quantity of cellular substance inter- venes between this coat and the white of the eye. The tunica sclerotica, an opaque, white, elastic, dilatable, fibrous membrane ; is of unequal thick- ness ; has few vessels on it, derived from the ci- liary arteries; and possesses little sensibility. This coat surrounds the whole ball of the eye, ex- cepting that part of the ball occupied by the cor- nea. This coat is tough and strong, and well calculated for determining the shape of the eye, and for sup- porting and defending the more delicate and more useful parts of that organ. The tendons of the ,muscles which move the eye-ball are fixed to the sclerotic poat. The Cornea which forms the convex transpa- rent part of the eye-ball, consists of many thin plates, united by cellular substance ; and these, when united, form one plate, which is thickest in the centre. The cornea is covered by the thin edge of the tunica sclerotica, IOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 144, The cornea, which is more or less convex in different individuals, and in different animals, is hot exactly circular. When the cornea is too convex, the rays of light are collected into a focus before the retina, and such persons are short-sighted ; but, on the other hand, when the cornea is flatter than com- mon, the foci of rays proceeding from near ob- jects are formed beyond the retina, and such per- sons are long-sighted, and can only see objects held at a considerable distance from the eye. In the healthy eye, there are no vessels on the cornea capable of receiving red blood. The cornea has been supposed to have a great effect in refracting the rays of light; because the rays at the cornea pass from the rarer medium, the air, in^o the more dense medium the aqueous fluid. Of the Choroid Coat. The Choroid Coat is much thinner than the sclerotic ; of a brown colour ; internally villous; largely supplied wdth bloodvessels and nerves; and connected to the sclerotic only by fine cellular membrane, by bloodvessels and nerves, excepting at its fore part near to the iris, where these coats are connected by the ciliary ligament. The brown colour of this coat is derived from the paint which covers its surfaces, shining through145 COATS OF THE EYE-BALL. it; and this paint, which is thicker and darker coloured in the Negro than in the European, is of a very* peculiar nature, and is not altered by heat, by immersion in spirits, or by chemical tests. Nearly opposite to the ciliary circle, there is a dark-brown radiated circle, about one-sixth of an inch broad, called Corpus ciliare ; and near to the root of the iris, the choroid coat is folded into six- ty or seventy folds, which are lined by dark paint. The dark paint of the choroid coat serves to (pre- vent the reflection of light, and the formation of a second image. The nerves^ called Ciliary, which are flat, may be observed passing along the surface of this coat, accompanied by the long ciliary arteries, and the ramifications of the shorter ciliary arteries, also the smaller accompanying veins, which, from fol- lowing a vorticose course, have been called Ve7ue mrticosce. ' Ciliary Ligament, or Ciliai'y Circle. The ciliary ligament is composed of dense cel- lular membrane, and appears as a grey ring, which connects the choroid coat and margin of the iris to the sclerotic coat. This ligament has been stated by Soemmering to be composed chiefly of the ciliary nerves and of bloodvessels. A triangular canal ha& been described by Fon- tana, Soemmering and Murray, as .running YOL. HI. KOUTLINES or ANATOMY. 14(5 along this ciliary ligament, and as being partly formed by the groove at the edges of the cornea and sclerotic coat. jOf the Ciliary Processes. The ciliary processes are mere doublings of the choroid coat, the extremities of which hang loose in the aqueous humour. The ciliary processes are chiefly composed of a plexus of vessels ; they are not muscular, and there is no reason to suppose that they compress the lens. Sect. II. OF THE OPTIC NERVE AND RETINA. The optic nerves are commonly said to arise from the thalami nervorum opticorum* ; they are of a large size, whiter than the other nerves; are covered by the dura and pia mater ; are connect- ed to one another at the fore-part of the sella sphenoidalis. * Several anatomists, as Winslow, Zinn, Santorini, Gi- RARDi, Gall and Spurzein, are of a contrary opinion, and have affirmed, that these nerves take their rise from the Nates and Testes. In proof of which, the laSt-mentioned authors have remarked, that when the optic nerve of one side is smidler than the other, the corresponding tubercles are also smaller.OF THE CILIARY PROCESSES. 147 The Optic Nerve describes a tortuous course in the orbit, and is contracted where it enters the sclerotic coat, in which there are a number of small holes. The optic nerve enters the eye-ball rather near- er to the nose than the axis of the eye-ball ; and is expanded into a very delicate pulpy substance, which is nearly transparent in the eye immediate- ly after death, called by anatomists Retina. The retina consists of a thin plane of medullary matter, which extends as far forwards as the greater dia- meter of the capsule of the crystalline lens, between the choroid coat and capsule of the vitreous hu- mour *. The retina is not of an uniform thickness ; it is considerably thicker at its posterior than at its anterior part. The retina is very thin, especially under the ciliary processes, to which it is glued, and by which it is impressed, so as to have a striated ap- pearance. Some anatomists are of opinion, that the retina is not an expansion of the optic nerve ; 1st, Be- cause, upon making a section through the optic nerve, it may be observed rather to be contracted than expanded ; £d, Because in some animals there is a projection of the optic nerve, and no connec- tion is said to exist between it and the retina, as in the haddock. K2 * Vid. Plate xli. fig. 1.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 148 The axis of the eye-ball does not correspond with that of the orbit. The axis of the orbit is di- rected obliquely outwards, whereas the axis of the eye is directly forwards ; and the axes of the two eyes are parallel. • That part of the optic nerve which enters the eye-ball is insensible. My Father has observed : “ I found that the diameter of the object which disappears is very nearly equal to one-ninth part of our distance from it *, or, that, at the distance of nine feet from a wall, a circle one foot in dia- meter is lost. If, therefore, we suppose the hu- man eye to be one inch or twelve lines in diame- ter, and that the rays of light, issuing from the object, decussate about the centre of the crystal- line lens, which is nearly three lines behind the cornea, or nine lines from the retina,—the insen- sible spot on the bottom of the eye will be one line in diameter ; and with this calculation, I found that the actual measurement of the medullary part of the optic nerve agrees very nearly. “ I next found, that an object begins to disap- pear, when the point to which the eye is directed, is one-fourth of the distance of the eye from it; and hence, upon the supposition above stated, the axis of the eye-ball will be found to be two lines and a quarter from the outer side of the optic nerve, and two lines and three quarters from its centre ♦ Tre£’,tise on the Brain, &c. p. 92.149 IRIS OR MOVEABLE CURTAIN. In the axis of the eye, there is a small aperture, called by its discoverer Soemmering, Foraminu- lum, in the retina, which is encircled by a yellow border, the use of which is unknown. There are a number of small arteries distri- buted upon the inner surface of the retina, which are derived from the central artery of the optic nerve. Sect. III. OF THE IRIS OR MOVEABLE CURTAIN. The iris floats in the aqueous humour ; is of different colours in its fore-part in different in- dividuals, corresponding with the colour of the hair, being light blue or grey when the hair is light, and brown or black when the hair is black. The iris or moveable curtain, is placed behind the cornea, and is calculated to prevent too much light from reaching the bottom of the eye. In the centre of the iris, there is an aperture called pitpii; the size of which varies according to the degree of light to which the eye. is exposed. On the posterior part of the iris, there is a dark- coloured mucous matter, which may be readily washed off, which was called by the elder authors tivea, from its supposed resemblance to a grape in colour. Upon the paint being washed of, two sets of fibres come into view j one set is concen- K31-50 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. trie around the pupil; the other set issues from the pupil, as from a centre, to the circumference of the iris. The iris, according to my Father, is a muscular organ. “ Its appearance is, in all respects, so evi- dently muscular, that I think there can be no doubt of its being the sphincter of the pupil; And I can only account for its having escaped the observation of Dr Haller and Dr Wrisbero, by supposing that they had not washed off the black paint, which covers and conceals it, as well as the red vessels of the iris. “ On the inner and anterior part of the iris, and on the whole of its posterior part, the fibres are disposed like radii ; and, if they are muscular, they are well situated for dilating the pupil. But these have many more blood-vessels in their com- position, and have much less the appearance of muscular fibres, than the oval fibrous organ I have described on the fore-part of the iris. My success in the ox naturally prompted me to examine the human iris with greater attention than I had formerly bestowed on it; and in this I found, with equal satisfaction, a very distinct sphincter muscle ; but somewhat differently dis- posed ; for in man it occupies the innermost part of the iris, or forms a ring immediately surround- ing the pupil, which is equally well seen on its fore and back parts, and makes about one-fifth part of the breadth of the iris. Between the1R.IS OR MOVEABLE CURTIN. 151 * Treatise on the Brain, &c. p. Ill, 112. Sphincter and root of the iris, the space is filled up with vessels and radiated fibres*.” The iris divides the aqueous humour into two chambers, an anterior and a posterior ; the ante- rior is placed between the posterior surface of the cornea and the anterior part of the iris. The posterior chamber is situated between the posterior surface of the iris and the anterior part of the crystalline lens. The iris receives its blood by the long ciliary ar- teries. The long ciliary arteries which supply the op- posite sides of the iris freely anastomose with each other ; and the smaller vessels of the iris form a circle around the pupil. The iris is supplied with nerves by the branches of the ciliary nerves; and these are large and nu- merous, in proportion to the bulk of the organ. The motions of the iris are involuntary, and de- pend on the quantity of light which falls on the retina ; for light falling on the iris itself produces no motion. Upon examining a minute object, the pupil is contracted, to exclude the most diver- gent rays of light, which could not be united up- on the retina. But in some animals, as the par- rot, the movements of the iris are voluntary. -K 4OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 152 Sect. IV. OF THE HUMOURS OF THE EYE. Of the Aqueous Humour. This humour in the adult is remarkably pellu- cid, in order that the light may readily be trans- mitted through it, but in the foetus frequently turbid; and according to Chenevix, consists of jelly, albumen, water and muriate of soda. Different opinions have been entertained respect- ing the source of this humour. This humour is very quickly regenerated. The aqueous humour is contained within the two different chambers ; the anterior or larger, is placed between the cornea and iris; and the posterior between the iris and crystalline lens. By this humour, the cornea is distended, so as to assist in collecting the rays of light. The aqueous humour also serves as a defence to the iris and crystalline lens, Of the Crystalline Lens. This humour has been called Crystalline LenSy being transparent like crystal, and in its form like a double convex lens. It is placed behind the pu-153 HUMOURS OF THE EYE. pH, and its posterior part is imbedded in the vi- treous humour. The human crystalline lens varies in colour and figure at different periods of life; in the foetus it is reddish, and nearly spherical; in middle life, transparent, and in figure like a double convex lens, which is more convex behind than before ; but in old age it frequently acquires a topaze co- lour, and becomes much firmer than at a more early period of life. The crystalline lens is a soft tender substance, of unequal density ; in the centre, it is firmer, tougher and heavier, than in its circumference; and hence possesses a more equable refractive power than any artificial lens. My Father, in his Trea- tise on the Eye, has observed ; It has been ve- ry generally supposed, by anatomists and by opti- cians, that the refractive power of the crystalline lens, compared with that of water, is proportion- ed nearly to its density; or, that its power ex- ceeds that of water somewhat, on accourft of the inflammable matter which enters into its compo- sition *. But different considerations, and parti- * Halleh, in Elem. Phys. vol. v. lib. xvi, p. 402. “ Par- vam esse qua aquam superat, prserogativam, nuperi fatentur. Erit tamen aliqua, et ex ponderis ratione, quae tamen fere sit ut 11 ad 10, et particularum inflammabilium. Angulum inci- dentiae radii ex Immore aqueo in lentem venientis, ad angulum refractionis, facit uti 87 ad 85, cl. Porterfield : Eandem ra- tionera aestimat cl. Pembertonus, uti 13 ad 12 j et uti 21 adOtJTLlNES OF ANATOMY. 1^4 cularly, that the rays of light cannot be refracted on entering the cornea in fishes, and therefore that their crystalline lens, which is not more dis- tant from the retina than in land animals, must possess much greater power of refraction,—ha- ving led me to suspect an error in the common opinion, and to put this highly curious point of physiology to the test of experiment, I discover- ed, That thfe spherical nucleus of the crystalline lens of the cod, which, in specific gravity, is to water nearly as 6 to 5, and to common white glass as 3 only to 10, collects the light so much 'more powerfully than water or glass does, that its focus is not more than one-sixth part of its dia- meter distant from its surface ; whereas the focus of the rays coljected by a glass sphere, is at the distance of one-fourth of the diameter of the sphere ; and the focus of the rays collected by a Sphere of water, is distant from it one-half of its diameter. “ OTi performing a similar experiment with the human crystalline lens, I found, that the focus, of parallel rays of light falling on it, is at the dis- tance of three-eighths of an inch from its cen- \ tre. “ But, although this shews, that its powers are far inferior to those of the lens of the fish, and *0, cl. WiNTRiNGHAM.” ^ And Dr Porterfield adds, This is a surprisingly small refraction, and yet it is as certain as any thing in Euclid, that it can be no greater.”OF THE CRYSTALLINE LENS. 155 ■+ Treatise on the Brain, &c. p. 87,-89. even to those of glass, which, of the same size and shape, would collect the light at the distance of a quarter of an inch * ; yet, as the specific weight of the human lens does not exceed that of water above a tenth part, its powers are much greater than have been supposed by authors ; and the fo- cus formed by the human lens, will be found to be situated, nearly, half-way between those pro- duced by glass and water f.” The lens is composed of a number of concentric layers, united to each other by cellular sub- stance. These layers may be disunited, by putting the lens into boiling water, or into an acid. When the lens has been steeped for some time in water, its component layers assume a radiated appearance. There is no reason to suppose, the fibres which compose the lens to be muscular, or to possess the property of changing the form of the lens ; and if the lens had been muscular, the contraction of the centre of the lens, must have occasioned the la- ceration of the external part of the lens. The crystalline lens is contained in a pellucid and elastic capsule, which is thinner behind than * " In this calculation, I suppose that the radius of the sphere of wliich the anterior part of the lens is a portion, is 7^ lines ill length, and that of its posterior part 5 lines only.”156 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. before, and this capsule adheres but slightly to the body of the lens ; a small quantity of water being said by most authors to be interposed. The lens may be readily detached by slight , pressure after puncturing it. There are no vessels either upon the capsule or body of the lens in the adult, of such a size as to admit the red globules of the blood. Of the Vitreous Humour. This transparent humour, which, in colour and consistence, bears a strong resemblence to the glaire of an egg, is contained in a very thin capsule, named tunica hyahidea. Besides the general capsule, there are septula passing across the vitreous humour, which com- municate with each other. According to Mr Chenevix, this humour con- sists of water, albumen, jelly, and muriate of soda, and its specific gravity is 1.0053. This humour occupies the greater share of the ball of^ the eye, and keeps the retina at a proper distance from the bottom of the eye. The capsule of the vitreous humour, divides at the fore-part, into two layers. “ Within the roots of the ciliary processes, it adheres closely to the retina j and, a little farther forwards, it seems toOF THE VITREOUS HUMOUR. J57 divide into two distinct layers. The external con- tinues to be glued to the retina, and accompanies it to its termination, which we shall find to be in the fore-part of the capsule of the crystalline lens, about one-twentieth of an inch from its outer edge; The internal layer adheres firmly to the vitreous humour, till this is connected with the posterior part of the capsule of the lens, at the like distance, nearly, of one-twentieth of an inch from its outer edge ; and, at the distance, therefore, of one-tenth of an inch from the connexion of its anterior layer and retina with the lens. The outer edge, there- fore, of the crystalline lens, covered with its pro- per capsule only, occupies a space nearly one-tenth of an inch in breadth, between the two layers of the capsule of the vitreous humour. “ The anterior layer of the capsule of the vitreous humour being fixed to the crystalline lens, at the distance, nearly, of one-tenth of an inch from the attachment of its posterior layer,—a canal, bound- ed by the two layers of the vitreous humour, and by the edge of the crystalline lens, as its basis, is formed, which was discovered by Dr Petit, and is named after him *. Air, blown into this space, passes, of course, around the crystalline lens f. Each of the two layers of the capsule of the vi- treous humour, is tougher than the posterior part * Mem. de I’Acad. des Sciences, 172C. t Vid. Plate xli, fig. 1.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 158 of the capsule,- and adheres firmly to the capsule of the lens Between the layers of the capsule of the vitreous humour, there is a canal, which, owing to its transverse fibres, resembles, when inflated, the colon. Sect. V, BLOODVESSELS OF THE EYE. The bloodvessels of the contents of the orbit are derived from the internal carotid, internal maxillary, frontal, facial, and temporal arteries. The ocular artery, a branch of the internal ca- rotid, passes through the foramen opticum, be- neath the optic nerve, and sends off a number of small branches, which perforate the sclerotic coat, which have been caller^ ciliary arteries ; and which are distributed upon the choroid coat and iris. Sect. VI. CONCLUSIONS. From what has been stated respecting the struc- ture of the eye, it follows that the rays of light ♦ Treatise dn the Eye, &c. p. 79* ^MUSCLES OF THE EYE-BALL, 159 proceeding from an object, and which diverge as they advance, are collected by the humours of th© eye, and especially by the crystalline. The cone of rays, of a luminous body, forms, after passing through the crystalline lens, a second cone, the apex of which falls on the retina. The rays of light, which are perpendicular to the middle of the lens, proceed directly to the retina ; those on the left proceed to the right, and so on with the other rays; hence the image form- ed on the retina, is inverted. In the above very general account of the struc- ture of the eye, I have not endeavoured to describe the form, proportion, or refractive powers of the transparent parts of the eyes, nor the radii of their curvatures, because the limits of these Outlines prevent me from entering more at large into the? physiology of the several parts of the eye. Sect. VII. MUSCLES OF THE EYE-BALL. There are six muscles which move the eye- ball ; five of which take their origin from the sides of the foramen opticum, and have been named from their direction, or apparent action,160 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. The sixth muscle, the inferior oblique, takes its rise from the fore-part of the orbit. These muscles which have been called straight and oblique muscles, are not exactly so, on account - of the shape of the orbit. The above muscles terminate in broad thin ten- dons, which are inserted into the sclerotic coat un- der the tunica adnata, about one-sixth of an inch from the cornea. By the straight muscles, the axis of the eye is directed towards different points; and by their combined action, the eye-ball is directed towards any intermediate point, or in a circle by the suc- cessive action of these muscles. Rectus Superior, or Levator Oculi. This muscle passes nearly horizontally below the levator palpebrae superioris and optic nerve ; it is the thinnest of the recti muscles, and takes its rise from the upper part of the foramen opti- ciim, and is fixed into the sclerotic coat, about one-fifth of an inch from the edge of the cornea. By this muscle, the eye-ball is raised. Rectus Inferior, or Depressor Oculi. This muscle is situated in the lower part of the orbit, and takes its rise from the lower part of theMUSCLES OF THE EYE-BALL. l6i foramen opticum, and fixed opposite to the insertion of the former muscle into the sclerotic coat.^ By the above muscle, the fore-part of the eye- ball is depressed. # Abductor and Adductor Oculi. The eye-ball is provided with an Abductor and Adductor muscle, the former of which arises from the inferior and posterior part of the fisgure of the orbit, and is fixed into the eye-ball opposite to its outer angle ; the latter the shortest, thickest and straightest of the recti muscles, arises from the side of the foramen opticum, and is inserted opposite to the inner angle of the eye. By the abductor^ the eye-ball is pulled towards the temple ; by the adductor, towards the nose. Obliquus, Superior and hiferior. The former arises from the side of the foramen opticum ; its tendon included within a bursa, pas- ses through a cartilaginous pully, fixed behind the internal angular process of the os frontis \ it after- wards is reflected under the levator oculi, and is fixed into the sclerotic coat between the insertion of the levator oculi, and entrance of the optic nerve ; the latter arises from the anterior edge of the orbitar process of the superior maxillary bone, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat between the entrance of the optic nerve, and the insertion of the abductor oculi. By the superior oblique, the pupil is turned downwards and outwards, and by the inferior, up- wards and inwards. VOL. III. LOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 162 The oblique muscles of the eye form a girth around the eye-ball, between the lens and thebottom of the eye; hence, by their pressure, they increase the distance of the lens from the retina, or increase the posterior part of the axis of the eye-ball. Sect. VIIL OF THE NERVES OF THE CONTENTS OF THE ORBIT. THE second or optic nerves have been above de- scribed. The third pair is said to arise from the under and back part of the crura cerebri; they run along the upper part of the cavernous sinuses; pass through the foramina lacera, and give branches to all the muscles of the eyes, excepting the superior' oblique and abductor muscles, and send a branch to the ophthalmic ganglion. The fourth pair arises from the medullary plate which lies over the passage to the fourth ventricle ; turn round the crura cerebri, and is spent on the superior oblique muscle of the eye. The fifth pair of nerves, tg!^ its rise by two distinct parts, from the side,|£the tuber annulare. Before dividing into its three graat branches, the orbitar, superior, and inferior maxillary, there is a ganglion, called the Gasserian, laid across it. The orbitar branch of the fifth pair passes imme- diately under the orbitar plate of the frontal bone, and then divides into a larger and smaller branch.163 OF THE EYE-LIDS. Tho’larger b'ra'nch sends a nerve along the ab- ductor oculi to the lacrymal gland, and to the mem- branes and fat near it.’ -Another branch of this nerve joins with a btanch of the fifth pair, and forms the Ophthalmic Ganglion, which is placed on the outer side of the optic nerve before the foramen lacerum. The Ciliary Nerves are derived from the ophthalmic ganglion. The orbitar branch of the fifth pair also detaches the nasal branch, which passes under the levator oculi, to the inner side of the orbit. The continuation of the trunk of this nerve passes through the foramen supra or- bitarium, and is distributed on the forehead. The sixth pair of nerves' begins from the tuber annulare; they pass vVithin the cavernous sinus; then through the foramina lacera, and terminate in the abductor muscle of the eye. Sect. IX. OF THE APPENDAGES TO THE EYE. Of the Eye-Lids. The eye-lids are convex outwardly; concave inwardly, when they are applied to the eye-balls: nd the upper eye-lid is the larger and more move- able, and covers the greater part of the eye. L 2164 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. When the eye-lids are open, there is always a wrinkle in the skin in each eye-lid, which is most obvious in the upper, in consequence of the eye- lid being drawn under the edge of the orbit. The eye-lids are composed of thin skin, fat, and a portion of the orbicularis muscle, and of the tarsal cartilages situated at the edges of the eye-lids ; and are connected to the orbits by con- densed cellular substance, which has been impro- perly called ligament. The eye-lids are united at each end, and are said by anatomists to form the angles ox cant hi: The internal is rounded, but the external is acute. The Tarsal Cartilages are not of an uniform breadth ; they are broadest in the centre ; and • their edges are so shaped, as to form a groove for the tears when the eye-lids are shut. Of the Ciliary Glands. The ciliary glands, which are composed of a number of follicles, are placed between the tarsus and lining of the eye-lids. From these glands, a sebaceous matter is de- rived, which passes the ducts of these glands, call- ed the puyicta ciliariay which are placed upon the edges of the eye-lids.165 OF THE EYE-LASHES. Of the Cilia or Eye-Lashes. The cilia or eye-lashes are implanted on the edges of the eye-lids. Those of the upper eye-lid, which are longer than those of the under eye-lid, are bent upwards, and those of the under eye-lid are turned downwards. These hairs prevent dust or other extraneous bodies from getting into the eye-ball. Muscles of the Eye-Lids. Naso-Palpebralis, or Orbicularis Palpebrarum. The fibres of the orbicular muscle are arranged parallel to the edge of the eye-lid ; and the fibres of the muscle are concentric. This muscle, arises by a tendon, from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, from the orbitar process of the same bone, and from the internal angular process of the os frontis; its fibres are intermixed with those of the frontal and corrugator and levator labii superioris muscles, and the outer surface of the muscle adheres to the skin of the eye-lids. The fibres of this muscle decussate each other at the external angle of the eye. L 3 %OUTLINES .OJ ANATOMY. The upper eye-lid is raised by volition ; but it is carried down almost involuntarily ; for we can- not suspend the motion for a long time. My Father has concluded, from his experi- ments, that the orbicularis of the eye-lid, by its pressure on the upper and under part of the cor- nea, renders it flatter; by which the middle part of the cornea is protruded between the edges of the eye-lids, so as to render the cornea more con- vex, and at the same time increases the distance of the cornea from the lens, or lengthens the axis of the eye-ball, Orbito-Palpebralis, or Attollens palpebram su~ periorem. The attollens palpebram superiorem is a long thin muscle, placed immediately under the orbitar pro- cess of the frontal bone ; it arises from the du- ra mater at the upper margin of the foramen op- ticum, and forms a broad tendinous expansion, which is fixed to the superior margin of the tar- sus. Sect. X. OF THE SUPERCILIA OR EYE-BROWS. The eye-brows are arched eminences, cover- ed by hair, which extend from the root of the nose to the temples. The eye-brow consists of a thick doubling of skin, covered by hair and fat, of the orbicularis,OF THE EYE-BROWS. 167 frontal and corrugator supercilii muscles, and of bloodvessels and nerves. The hairs of the supercilia are disposed down- wards and outwards, in order to prevent the sweat from getting into the eye-ball. The eye-brows arje raised by the occipito-fron- talis, corrugator supercilii, and somewhat depres- sed by the orbicularis palbebrarum muscles. . The eye-brows assist very materially in expres- sing the various passions of the mind. Fronto-Superciliaris, or Corrugator Supercilii. This muscle arises from the internal angular process of the os frontis, and is fixed behind the occipito-frontalis muscle, into the middle of the superciliary ridge. By this muscle, the eye-brow is drawn down- wards and inwards, by which the skin between the muscles of opposite sides is thrown into longi- tudinal folds. Sect. XI. OF THE ORGAN BY WHICH THE TEARS ARE SECRE- TED, AND OF THE PASSAGES BY WHICH THE TEARS ARE CONVEYED TO THE EYE-BALL, AND FROM IT INTO THE NOSE. Of the Lacrymal Gland. The lacrymal gland is of a yellow colour, con- sisting pf numerous lobules, united by cellular T. 4168 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. membrane, situated above the junction of the upper and under eye-lids at the outer and upper part of the orbit, and behind the outer end of the superciliary ridge. There is a small ligament, which has been de- scribed by Soemmering, which passes from the external and posterior part .of the lacrymal fossa under the gland ; by which this gland is retained in its place. The lacrymal gland is supplied by the ophthal- mic artery, The nerves of this gland are derived from the ophthalmic nerve. There is also a cluster of smaller lacrymal glands, situated between the larger lacrymal gland, and the upper eye-lid. Of the Lacrymal Ducts. My Father discovered the lacrymal ducts, which in the human body are small; they pass out from the anterior part of the gland, and do not com- municate with each other. There are usually only five or six ducts to be seen, which terminate on the inner side of the upper eye-lid,^ near to the outer angle of the eye *. The tears pass across the eye, and are diffused by the motion of the eye-ball, and are absorbed by the puncta lacrymalia. * Vide Plate 5. of my Father’s Treatise on the Eye and La- crymal passages, in which the ducts of the lacrymal gland are represented, and bristles are introduced into them.169 OF THE PUNCTA LYCRYMALIA. Of the Puncta Lacrymalia *. There are two puncta lacrymalia, a superior and inferior, through which the tears pass into the la- crymal sac. Each punctum is surrounded by a cartilaginous border, by which it is kept always open. The superior punctum is placed near to the in- ner angle of the eye, of the upper eye-lid ; it ascends for about one-eighth of an inch, and then turns inwards at a right angle ; then ascends ob- liquely. The inferior punctum passes downwards ; describes an acute angle, and then passes obliquelj upwards. The puncta approach each other; they'are se- parated by the caruncle, and sometimes form a common duct behind the tendon of the orbicularis muscle ; but in most ca^es the puncta open into the lacrymal sac separately f. The tears are absorbed by the puncta, in con- sequence of capillary attraction, and conveyed through the ducts into the lacrymal sac. * Vide Plate 6. of my Father’s Treatise on the Eye and La- crymal Ducts. + Vide a description of these ducts in Dr Monro senior’s Obs. Anat. & Phys. published 1758.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, 170 Of the Lacrymal Sac. The lacrymal sac is lodged in a groove formei by tlie os unguis and os maxillare *. This sac is of an irregular form, and somewhat approaches to an oval; the lower end of it is some- what contracted, which is connected with the na- sal duct. This sac is composed of a tough white mucous membrane, of great vascularity, and is covered by the tendon of the orbicularis muscle, except- ing at its upper rounded part, and by a layer of condensed cellular substance. The nasal duct which communicates with the lacrymal sac, is inclosed in a bony cand, formed by the superior maxillary bone and os unguis. The duct runs obliquely backwards and downwards, and terminates at the lower end of the inferior turbinated bone, by a round aperture f, in Snzit, der’s membrane. The nasal branch of the fifth pair of nerves, af- ter supplying the anterior part of the nostrils, and * Vide Plate 6. 1. of my Father’s Treatise on the Eye and Lacrymal Ducts. + Vid. Plate 6. fig. 1. of my Father’s Treatise on the Eye and Lacrj'itial passages.OF JHE DUCTU3 INCISIVDS. 171 • ■ s ' W' V ' the fore-part of the septum narium, passes to the inner corner of the eye, and is distributed upon the lacrymal sac. Of the Ductm IncuvviiSy or Passage from the Nose into the Mouth, This duct opens behind the incisor teeth of the upper jaw, into the mouth ; and hence has been cal- led ductus incisivus The groove for this duct is more or less distinct in different skulls ; somer times it is very manifest, but on other occasions superficial; and my Father observes, that “ in by far the greater number of human subjects, of dif- ferent ages, I have not b^een able to fijid any ves- tige of such ducts, in the bottom of the nose, or roof of the mouth ; But, in a few subjects, I have found them, open at both ends, but always very much smaller than in the quadruped. In spme of these, I passed a bristle or small probe, very readily, from the nose into the mouth. In two or three subjects, I first poured quicksilver from the nose, through the ductus incisivus, into the mouth ; and then, with a small syringe, injected through it melted wax, coloured with vermilion : And these preparations, which I have preserved and demonstrated for a great number of years, are accurately delineated in Table vi. fig. 4, 5, 6, 7.” • Vid. Plate 6. fig. 4. appended to my Father’s Treatise on the Eye.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 172 Of the Caruncula Lacrymalk. The caruncula lacrymalis, is a small conglome- rate gland, of a red colour, which was supposed to secrete a share of the tears; it is situated be- tween the inner angle of the eye-lids, and se- cretes a sebaceous matter. From the caruncula, one or two hairs grow. There is a small vascular fold of the tunica ad- nata, named palpehra tertia^ which is placed be- tween the caruncula lacrymalis and the ball of the eye. Of the Chemical Analysis of the Tears. The tears, which are transparent and colourless, with scarcely any smell, but a saline taste, are composed of the following ingredients: W ater. Mucus. Muriate of soda. Soda. Phosphate of lime. Phosphate of soda. The saline parts amount only to about 0.01 of the w^hole. The specific gravity of the fluid, is somewhat greater than that of distilled water *. ♦ Thomson’s Chemistry, vol. v. p. 595;173 EXPLANATION OF PLATE. Explanation of Plate 41. Fig. 1. represents the human eye dissected. a The optic nerre. b b The sclerotic coat, cut and turned outwards, c The sclerotic coat, cut and turned forwards with the cornea d. e e One-half of the iris in its place. f The pupil and crystalline lens in its place. gg The ciliary circle. H H The choroid coat. h The ciliary processes seen in their places, by cutting off a portion of the iris. ' i A portion of the iris cut and turned back. k The floating points of the ciliary processes turned backwards. I The middle smooth part of the retina, seen by cut- ting a hole in the choroid coat. m The roots of the ciliary processes of the retina, to which the black paint of the ciliary processes of the choroid coat adheres. ' n The ciliary processes of the retina, inserted into the capsule of the crystalline lens. Fig. 2. represents, chiefly, the circle of Petit in the hu- man eye. a a The vitreous humour inclosed in its capsule. b The crystalline lens inclosed in its capsule, c The ciliary processes of the retina inserted into the capsule of the crystalline lens. d The circular canal of Petit inflated. e A hole cut in the circular canal of Petit, at which the air distending it was blown in.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 17^ CHAPTER V. OF THE ANATOMY OF THE EAR. The Organ of Hearing. XHE ear in different animals, is of a more or less complicated structure. In the lower classes, it consists merely of a membranous bag, upon which the branches of the nerves are distributed ; but in the higher or- ders, a number of accessory parts are superadded. In describing the human ear, it has been cus- tomary with anatomists to divide it iilto External and Internal parts ; by the former,- is meant the external cartilage of the ear, and the meatus audi- torius externus: and by the latter, those parts which are internal with respect to the membrane of the drum. Sect. I. OF THE EXTERNAL CARTILAGE OF THE EAR. The external cartilage of the ear, which varies in shape in different individuals, is attached byexternal parts or the ear. 175 Baeans' of the skin, ligaments, and muscles, to the temporal bone. Different parts of it are distinguished by diffe- rent names. The cartilaginous part has been called the ala^ or wlng^ to distinguish it from the soft pendent part underneath, called the lobe. The outer border of the cartilage, has been call- ed the helix; and the semicircular part within it, the antihelix. The moveable cartilage which shuts the exter- nal passage, is named the tragus; and an eminence at the extremity of the antihelix, opposite to this, the ahtitragiis. There is a small cavity between the helix and antihelix, called innominata; and another cavity somewhat like a boat between the limbs of the antihelix, called /ma navivularis. There are certain muscles fixed in this carti- lage of the ear for elevating it, drawing it for- W’ards, and drawing it backwards ; but few' persons are capable of throwing these muscles into action. There are a few thin muscular fibres implanted upon the cartilage of the ear, which are calculated for stretching it •, but I believe I may say, that few, or perhaps none, can throw these muscles in- to action. Certain names have been appropriated by ana- tomical authors to these muscles, descriptive of their situations on the external cartilage of the ear.176 ' OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. The muscles which move the whole external cartilage of the ear, are the following : Temporo-Auricularis, or Attolhns Aurem. This muscle arises by a curved line from the tendinous aponeurosis of the temporal muscle, and is fixed by a broad tendon to the eminence on the inner side of the antihelix. By this muscle, some persons can raise the external cartilage of the ear. Zygomato-Auricularis, or Anterior Auris. This arises from that part of the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle, which covers the middle of the zygoma; it passes backwards and downwards, and is fixed into the inner side of the helix. By this muscle, the helix is drawn forwards. Mastoido-Auriculares, or Retrahentes Aurem. This muscle consists of three parts, which arise from the posterior part of the root of the mastoid process, and are fixed into the projection which corresponds with the hollow of the concha. These muscles tend to stretch the concha. By the above muscles, the cartilage of the ear is drawn:MUSCLtS OF THE EAl. 177 upwards, forwards or backwards; and by their com- bined actions, in the intermediate directions. There are five small muscles on the external cartilage of the ear. The Tragicus, which arises from the middle and outer part of the concha, at the root of the tragus,; and is inserted into the point of the tragus. This muscle is said to pull the ij'agus a little forzvardsi The Antitragiciis arises from the internal part of the antitragus ; upon which it turns forwards, and is inserted into the. tip of the antitragus. By this muscle, the tip of the antitragus is turn- ed outwards, and the extremity of the anlihelix is depressed. The 'Iransversus Auris arises from the promi- nent part of the concha, on the dorsum or back- part of the ear, and is said to stretch the scapha. Two muscles have been described under the names, Helix major and minor: the former ari- ses from the anterior part of the helix, and is fix- ed into the helix ; and the latter from the under and fore part of the helix, and is fixed into the helix. The Concha is a large cavity under the antihelix, which is divided by the helix into two parts; the inferior of which leads to the meatus audito- rius extcrnus. These muscles are so insignificant, as to have little or no power in pulling the helix dotvnwards. VOL. III. M IOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 178 By means of the external cartilages of the ear, the pulses of sound are reflected into the external passage ; the intensity of which, is increased dur- ing their progress through the meatus auditorius extern us. The external meatus is not straight; it turns forwards and inwards, and ends in the membrana tympani. The cuticle with which this passage is lined, is perforated by the orifices of a number of small glands, which secrete the wax of the ear, which serves to defend the membrane of the drum from the air ; and being very bitter, may have an effect, along with the hairs in that passage, in preventing insects from entering. The external passage is closed up by the mem- brana tympani, which has lately been described as a muscle with radiated fibres. The membrana tympani, is in shape oval, about ~ of an inch long, and broad. The membrana tympani is placed obliquely in a groove of bone, and the upper part of it is turn- ed outwards, and the under inwards. The branches of the temporal and occipital ar- teries supply the external ear with blood. The nerves of the external ear are derived from the third branch of the fifth pair of nerves, and from the portio dura of the seventh pair.179 INTERNAL PARTS OF THE EAR. Sect. IL OF THE INTERNAL PARTS OF THE EAR. The internal ear consists of two cavities and their appendages. The J'ympanum, which is filled by air, is of an irregular figure, and about half an inch in breadth. This cavity is separated from the Labyrinth by a plate of bone, in which there is a projection, which divides the tympanum into an Anterior and Poste- rior part. There is also within the tympanum a •projection formed by the aqueduct of Fallopius. There are two other eminences, one at the upper and fore part of the tympanum, for lodging the mus- cle called Tensor Tympani; and another behind the oval-shaped hole for the passage of the muscle called Stapedius. The tympanum communicates with the poste- rior fauces by the Aristotelian or Eustachian tube^ which begins at the upper and fore part of the tym- panum ; and runs forwards and inwards. This tube is like a trumpet in form, being narrow next the ear, and bony ; but much wider next the throat, and composed of cartilage. This tube is lined by a vascular membrane. The tympanum also communicates at its upper and back part with the cells of the mastoid pro- M2180^ OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. cess of the temporal bone, which are irregular in figure and size. Sometimes the cells are small and numerous, but at other times there are only two or three large cells, which communicate with each other. In quadrupeds, there are large cells or cavities communicating with the tympanum, and supply- ing the place of mastoid cells. The tympanum of the skeleton communicates w'ith the Vcst 'ible by an oval-shaped aperture, which in the recent body is filled up by membrane, and lodges the base of one of the chain of bones which passes across the tympanum. Thfe tympanum also communicates with a half of the turns of that part of the ear, call- ed Cvchlea^ by a round aperture, which is placed obliquely backwards and outwards^ and which in the recent body is shut up by a membrane. Of the Chain of Bones* There are four bones stretched across the tym- panum •, the Malleus, Incus, Os orbiculare, and Stapes, which are covered by the periosteum, and articulated to each other by capsular- liga- ments. The Malleus or Hammer, consists of a round head, a small neck and handle, and two little pro- cesses.* INTERNAL PARTS OF THE EAR. 181 The head of the bone is turned upwards and inwards, and forms an angle with the neck of the bone, and is laid along the membrana tympa- ni, to which it adheres. The Incus or Anvil, consists of a body, and two crura, of equal length. The shorter crus extends backwards, and is joined by ligament to the edge of the mastoid opening. The Os orhiculare is articulated with the long process of the incus. The Stapes, so named from being like a stirrup, is placed horizontally, and is divided into a head, crura, and base. The base of the bone is of an oval shape, and its edges correspond with those of the fenestra ovalis. The longest crus of the stapes is placed backwards. There are three muscles by which the chain of bones is moved. The La.vaior Tympani. This muscle arises, by a small beginning, from the extremity of the spinous process of the sphe- noid bone, behind the entry of the artery of the dura mater ; after which it runs backwards, and • a little upwards, along with the nerve, called chor- da tympani, in a fissure of the os temporis near M 3182 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. the fossa that lodges the condyle of the lower jaw. This muscle is fixed into the long process of the malleus within the tympanum, where it rests upon the edge of the fissure between the pars squa- mosa and peirosa. This muscle tends to draw the malleus oblique- ly forwards towards its origin ; consequently, the mcmbrana tympani, is made less concave, or is re- laxed. Tenm' Tympani. This muscle arises, by a very small beginning, from the cartilaginous extremity of the Eustachian tube, just where it begins to be covered by the pars petrosa and spinous process of the sphenoid bone, near the entry of the artery of the dura mater ; from thence running backwards near the osseous part of the Eustachian tube, it forms a very distinct fleshy belly, below a thin osseous plate, between the pars squamosa and labyrinth; and sends off a slender tendon, which makes a turn in- to the tympanum, along with the nerve called choi'- da tympani. This muscle is fixed into the posterior part of the handle of the malleus, a little lower than the root of its long process. By this muscle, the malleus and membrana tymr pani are pulled inwards tgwards the pars petrosa,M 4 OF THE STAPEDIUS. J83 by which the membrane of the drum is made more .concave and tense. Stapedius. This muscle arises by a small fleshy belly, from a little cavern in the pars petrosa, near the cells of the mastoid process, before the inferior part of the passage for the portio dura *, its tendon passes through a small round hole in the side ol the same cavern •, enters the interior part of the tympanum, and is inserted into the posterior part of the head of the stapes. By this muscle, the stapes is drawn obliquely upwards, by which the posterior part of its base is moved inwards, and the anterior part out- wards. The air within the tympanum increases the . force of the sound; to which the tension of the membrane of the drum and of the chain of small bones essentially contributes ; and the vi- brations of sound are thus communicated from the membrane of the drum to the membranes of the round and oval apertures, and the tension of the chain of bones is probably adapted to the kind of sound. The parts which communicate with the tympanum increase the intensity of the sound.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY* Of the Labyrinth or Vestible. \ The Labyrinth, placed at the inner part of the tympanum, is of an irregular form ; much smaller than the tympanum, and contains a sac which is filled by a gelatinous fluid. A part of the gelatinous fluid of the labyrinth is supposed by Cotunnius to be absorbed by two small conical-shapcd canals ; one of which he has described as taking its rise at the under-part of the scala tympani, and as terminating on the surface of the dura mater ; the other canal, he observes, descends from the vestible, and termi- nates between the layers of the dura mater. The arteries of the vestible arc derived from the vertebral arteries, which pass through the fora- mina at the bottom of the meatus auditorius inter- nus. There are several parts which communicate with the labyrinth. The three semicircular canals communicate with the vestible by five apertures ; for two of the ca- nals have a common termination. The cochlea also communicates with the vestible, and, in the skeleton, the tympanum. The canals, called improperly semicircular^ as they describe a greater portion of a circle, are threeOF THF VISTIBLE, 185 in number ; the Superior, the Posterior, and Ex- terior. These osseous canals are not of an uniform size, being enlarged at one end, into what has been called by anatomists ampulla; and they include within them cartilaginous canals. Of the Cochlea* The cochlea, so named from its resemblance to a turbinated shell of the snail kind, is composed of two complete turns and a half; and a central pil-. lar, called modiolus, which is continued to the middle of the second turn. These turns are separated from each other .by a partition, called lamina spiralis, into two windings, called its scalce; the one communicates with the tympanum by the foramen rotundum, and is hence called scala tympani; the other communicates with the vestible, and therefore has been called scala vestibuli. These scalae are of'a conical figure; they are narrowest at the apex of the cochlea, where they communicate with each other by a common tube, infundibulum ; one end of which begins at the termination of the modiolus, and the other end is fixed to the osseous top or cupola of the cochlea. My Father has investigated with much care the structure of the cochlea, and his account of it I have subjoined :OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 186' “ The central pillar of the cochlea consists of two parts, called modiolus and infundibulum. The modiolus is not a solid osseous cone, as has been generally supposed, but may be con- sidered as a hollow cone, containing that branch of the portio mollis which is destined for the cochlea ; and is everywhere cribriform, for the passage of the branches of that nerve. The in- fundibulum is an imperfect osseous funnel, con- nected to the top of the modiolus. So that the modiolus and infundibulum are two hollow coni- cal bodies, connected together by their small ends. The plate which is between them, and in the cen- tre of both, is cribriform. Around the modiolus, the first gyrus of the cochlea, and half of the se- cond gyrus are described; the other half gyrus incloses the foot of the infundibulum ; and the upper ends of the gyri, which communicate with each other, are covered or inclosed by the cupola of the cochlea. “ The partitions of bone which separate the gyri from each other, are not composed of one solid plate, as authors have represented *, but consist of two plates, connected to the modiolus at some distance from each other. “ The osseous root of the lamina spiralis is like- wise composed of two plates, connected to the * l>u Verney.—Cassebohm, T. 5. F. 7, 8, 10—Scar- pa, P. 10. F. 3. 7.OF THE NERVES OF THE EAR. 18/ modiolus or root of the infundibulum, ut some distance frem each other. “ I have already observed, that the modiolus is composed of a cribriform hollow cone, the sides of which consist of two thin plates; and the holes in it are much more numerous than they have been described to be by authors, and are not disposed in the regular manner they have represented them *. “ They are to be seen in every part of the sur- face of the modiolus; but are most numerous close to the roots of the osseous septa, which separate the gyri from each other ; and close to the outer sides of the root of the lamina spiralis. They are numerous in the plate between the modiolus and infundibulum ; and when the osseous septa and lamina spiralis are cut near the modiolus, they are seen in the side of the modiolus, between the two plates which compose the septa and lamina spi- ralis.” Of the Net'ves of the Ear. The ear receives its nerves from the seventh pair. The seventh pair enters the ear by the meatus auditorius internus, the bottom of which is cri- briform, and separated by a ridge into an inferior * Cassebdhm, T. 5. F. 10.188 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. and superior fossula. The nerves which go to the vestible and semicircular canals, pass through the inferior fossula; and those which go to the vestible, through the superior. My Father has also described in the following words, with great care, the minuter ramifications of the branches of the portio mollis, distributed upon the semicircular canals, cochlea, and vea* tible : “ I found, that the portio mollis is composed of two branches nearly equal in size ; one of which supplies the vestible and semicircular ca- nals, and the other the cochlea: “ That each branch consists of a great number of small chords: That the small chords of both branches pass through different minute holes into the vestible and cochlea, or, that the bottom of the canal in the back-part of the os petrosum, commonly call- ed meatus audltorius internus, is cribriform. “ As the osseous partitions which divide the cochlea into its gyri, as well as the lamina spiralis, which divides the gyri into scalae, are connected to the circumference of the modiolus ; we might expect to find the branches of the portio mollis conducted, from the modiolus, to the membranes lining the cochlea, by means of these partitions, or between or along the outer sides of the two osseous plates which compose them, as well as between the two lamellse which compose the lamina spi- ralis, or along the outer sides of these; as we189 OF THE PORTIO MOLLIS. would suppose, that the two sides of each scala should have nerves distributed on them in the same manner. “ Accordingly, on prosecuting the branches or fibres of the portio mollis with the utmost atten- tion, I find, that they pass outwards from the ca- vity of the modiolus, through innumerable mi- nute holes or canals, which every where perforate it. Some fibrils pass between the two plates which form the septa that separate the gyri from each other. A still greater number of fibrils passes through holes between the two plates which com- pose the root of the lamina spiralis. But by far the greatest number of the nervous fibrils perfo- rates the sides of the modiolus, between the os- seous septa and the lamina spiralis. The fibrils which pass through the holes that are nearest to the lamina spiralis, run to the membrane covering the lamina spiralis; wdiilst those which are near- est to the septa, run in a contrary direction, to the membranes covering the septa. We perceive, therefore, that the part of the membrane lining each scala, which is the most distant from the modiolus, will be supplied by the terminations of of these two sets of fibrils meeting. The nervous fibrils on the surface of the lamina spiralis, seem larger, and are more regularly disposed, than those that run on the surface of the septa. Two plates are found in the outer osseous part of the lamina spiralis, and the space between them is fil- led with nervous fibres,, from which numeroiisOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 190 minute fibrils issue between the outer edges the two plates. There are likewise minute holes in the sides of each of the plates which compose the lamina spiralis ; and there can be no doubt that the nerves between the plates are con* nected with those which run on their external surface. “ The last branches or fibres of the portio mollis pass through the cribriform plate, in the top of the modiolus, which is common to it and the in- fundibulum, to supply the last half-gyrus and cupola of the cochlea. “ I next observed, that the several branches of the portio mollis, in their whole course along the lamina spiralis, formed an elegant and intricate plexus, by innumerable joinings and separations of their component fibrils. “ At the root or osseous part of the lamina spiralis, the nerves are white and opaque ; but at the flexible and membranous parts, they are semipellucid. “ This change of colour is like to that we ob- serve the optic nerve undergoes on entering the eye-ball to form the retina ; and, in both, the change of colour is not very gradually made, but suddenly. “ On comparing the semipellucid outer part of the lamina spiralis with the retina of the eye> I observed a remarkable difference ; to-wit, that in tbe retina the texture seems pulpy and uniform,OF THE PORTIO MOLLIS. 191 without any such appearance of fibres and net- work, as we might expect to observe from the name retina, which has been so long and univer- sally given to it; whereas, in the ear, fibres and the continuation of an intricate net-work can be seen distinctly in the semipellucid part of the la- mina spiralis, and as far as to its outer edge. “ I have, therefore, in my Lectures, long ob- served, that the term retina was improper when applied to the nerve spread out on the bottom of the eye, and had been given, not in consequence of accurate observation of the structure, but from a common favourite theory of anatomists, which supposes that the brain and nerves consist of fibres. In the ear, the term may be, with great propriety, applied to describe the appearance of the branches of the portio mollis, in their course on the lamina spiralis. “ At the outer part of the lamina spiralis, the nervous fibres and net-work become much less evident; and, upon the continuation of these membranes, on the inner sides of the gyri of the cochlea, the nerves seem to terminate in a semi- pellucid pulpy substance, very like to the retina of the eye.” Sound, according to the experiments of my Fa- ther, is as rapidly communicated through water, as through air; and thus the branches of the portio mollis distributed upon the cochlea and semicir- cular canals, are affected by the tremulous move-OUTLINES OF ANATOM?. ments of the membranes of the round and oval > holes. The pulpy membrane of the vestible and cochlea, on which the branches of the portio mollis are dis- tributed, is the most essential part of the organ of hearing, and upon which the sense depends; all the other parts of this complex organ, are but of secondary importance. There is another nerve proper to the ear, the course of which, is very remarkable, called portio dura, which goes through the canal of Fallopius; from which a reflected branch is derived, which passes through the foramen innominatum in the pars petrosa, and is connected with the portio dura, and second part of the fifth pair of nerves; another branch, called chorda tympani, runs across the tympanum, between the inferior crus of the in- cus and the handle of malleus, at the outside of the Eustachian tube, to join the lingual of the fifth pair; and in its passage distributes branches to the muscles of the malleus and membranes of the tym- panum.EXPLANATION OF PLATE 42. 193 Explanation of Plate xlii. The two figures of this Table represent the distribu- tion of the branches of the portio mollis within the^tvvo seal® of the cochlea, or the nervous webs or retinae these form. Pig, 1. represents the distribution of the branches of the portio mollis, on one side of the lamina spiralis. a The large branches of the portio mollis, at the root or osseous part of the lamina spiralis. b The continuation of these branches on the soft part of the lamina spiralis. c The outer part of the lamina spiralis, separated from the bone of the cochlea. These nerves, in their whole course, fortti an intricate and beautiful plexus, by repeatedly joining into trunks, and these separating into branches. Fig. 2. M Represents the modiolus. a The plexus of nerves on the osseous part of the la- mina spiralis. b The plexus of nerves on the outer and softer part of the lamina spiralis. c The outer part of the lamina spiralis, dividing into its two constituent layers or membranes, one of Avhich d, continued, lines the scala of the vestible, and the other layer e, continued, lines the scala ol’ the tympanum. VOL. III. MOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 194 • ‘•'I CHAPTER VI. OF THE ORGAN OF TASTE. t TnHE Tongue is the seat of the sense of taste : and is proportionally broader in man than in quadrupeds. The structure of the human tongue has been explained in a preceding volume.’ I therefore shall only observe, that the papillae which cover its surface, render it a still more per- fect organ of taste, to which the thinness of the cuticle, which covers the surface of the tongue, essentially contributes. The tongue, like the other organs of sense, is very largely supplied by bloodvessels and nerves. 'I'he tongue is supplied with blood by the ar- teria ranina, a branch of the internal carotid. The tongue receives its nerves from three diffe- rent sources ; from the 5th, 8th, and qth pairs of nerves. The upper part, and also the point of the tongue, is supplied by a branch of the inferior maxillary branch of the fifth pair of nerves.OF THE ORGANS OF TASTE. Ip5 The eighth pair of nerves arises from the sides of the corpora olivaria of the medulla oblongata;, and consist on each side of the pars vaga and glos- so-pharyngeus. Both these nerves pass out through the hole in the base of the skull, common to the temporal and occipital bones. A branch from the glosso-pharyngeus joins with the digastric branch of the portio dura. The glosso-pharyngeus gives off branches, which^ uniting with the pharyngeal branch of the eighth pair and sympathetic nerve, form the plexus which covers the internal carotid artery, from which branches go to the heart. The glosso-pharyngeus supplies the tonsil, the upper part of the pharynx, the epiglottis, and then divides into branches, which are distributed upon the middle of the root of the tongue. The ninth pair of nerves arises from the under and lateral parts of the corpora pyramidalia ; and pass through the superior condyloid holes. The nerv'es of opposite sides are then conjoined by a cross branch with the sub-occipital nerve. The nerve then descends between the internal carotid arte- ry and internal jugular vein ; crosses the carotid arteries, and sends a branch down along the com- mon carotid, called descendens noni. The trunk of the nerve afterwards passes behind the facial and , temporal veins ; and upon the hyoglossus muscle, this nerve divides into many branches, which sup- ply the middle of the tongue, and joins with the ramifications of the lingual branch of the fifth pain NaOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. The bloodvessels and nerves of the tongue, have a very great effect upon each other *, in proof of which, my Father observed in many of his ex- periments, that throwing a ligature around the great bloodvessel leading to this member of an animal, had the effect of diminishing the nervous energy of that part of the body ; and, on the other hand, Nuck has informed us, that when he divid- ed the nerves leading to the salivary glands, the quantity of saliva secreted by the arteries, was sensibly diminished. The papillae of the tongue are probably erected when a sapid body is applied to them ; and it seems also probable, that the flavour of some sub- stances is more distinctly perceived by one set of the papillae, than by another ; for some sub- stances make a deeper impression on the point, others on the middle, and a third set on the back- part of the tongue. There is much variety as to the perfection of this sense in different individuals, and also many peculiarities as to taste, which are in some in- stances the effect of custom, of caprice, of preg- nancy, or of disease.OF THE ORGANS OF TOUCH. 197 CHAPTER VII. OF THE ORGANS OF TOUCH. Sect. I. ' OF THE SKIN. HE Skin, the common integument, is thicker on the outer than the inner part of the extremities of the body, and much thinner where flexion is required, or where it covers the more sensible parts of the body : it is also elastic. The skin consists of three, and according to Bayn- HAM, of four distinct membranes, viz. of the Epi- dermis or Cuticle, the Corpus or Rete Mucosum, of the True Skin, and of Baynham’s membrane. Of the Cuticle, The Cuticle is a transparent, insensible, lami- nated membrane, disposed in lines in many parts of the body, not uniformly thick, and perforated by the orifices of exhalent vessels, excretory ducts, and absorbent vessels, and by hairs: and the ves- sels of it are so small as not to admit the red blood. N 3198 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. The cuticle is connected to the subjacent mem- brane, by a number of small cellular threads, bloodvessels, and nerves. The cuticle covers every part of the true skin, except under the nails; and it is also reflected in- wards, and lines all the apertures, the nose, eyes, mouth, ears, pharynx, gullet, anus, urethra, va- gina ; and it also forms sheaths for the hairs. The cuticle is less prone to putrefaction than other parts of the body, and maybe taken off, in the form of a glove, from the hand of a putrid body. There are various furrows in different parts of the cuticle, which form figures with different angles on the back of the hand, and spiral lines on the toes. Chemical Analysis of the Cuticle. It appears from the experiments of Mr Hat- chett, that the cuticle, in all its properties, re- sembles coagulated albumen. Of the Nails. The nails make a part of the cuticle ; they con^ sist of fibres disposed in laminae, are transparent, insensible, excepting where they adhere to the skin ; and as the longest fibres of nails are outer- most, therefore the nails are thinner at their edges.N 4 OF THE CORPUS MUCOSUM. 399 The nails are fixed at their roots by a semilunar fold of the skin, and are covered by a reflection of the cuticle. The nails grow from the roots. The nails assist us in picking up very small bodies, and are also well calculated for defend- ing the extremities of the fingers and toes. Of the Corpus Mucosum, or Rete Mucosum. The corpus mucosum, which is situated under the cuticle, gives colour to the skin. The corpus mucosum covers every part of the true skin, excepting under the nails, and connects it to the cuticle. The colour of this substance is seen through the semitransparent cuticle. The corpus mucosum is a viscid substance, which envelops a great many small bloodvessels and nerves, which pass to the cuticle. The corpus mucosum is not of an uniform thick- ness ; hence the palms of the hands and soles of the Negro, are not of so dark a colour as the rest of his body ; and even in individuals of the same nation, it is darker in some parts of the body than in others, as in the arm-pits and eye- lids. It differs not only in colour, but in thickness, in different nations; being not only of a darker colour, but much thicker and stronger in the Negro than the European ; and, in the former, may be divid- ed into layers.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 200 The corpus mucosum is slowly regenerated ; hence a long time elapses, before a part which has been blistered, regains its original colour. The corpus mucosum is probably secreted by the vessels of the true skin, as the pigmentum ni- grum is secreted by the vessels of the choroid coat of the eye. The dark colour of the Negro has been imput- ed to the influence of the sun ; as men are of a fair complexion in temperate climates, and swar- thy in tropical climates. The above theory is objectionable, as all the in> habitants of tropical climates are not of the same complexion. It is extremely difficult to determine on what the colour of the corpus mucosum depends. Baynhams Membrane. Mr Baynham has described a very fine mem- brane, which, he observes, covers the true skin, but it is seen only when the vessels of the skin of those who have died frorri the small-pox, have been filled successfully. Of the Cutis Vera, or True Skin. The Cutis t'era is a strong elastic fibrous mem- brane, .which is largely supplied by bloodvessels and nerves.OF THE CUTIS VERA.. 201' The fibres of the cutis vera are very intimate- ly interwoven with each other, like those in the felt of a hat, and cross each other in every di- rection, so that it is impossible to trace their course. The skin of the extremities of the fingers and toes, is disposed in ridges. There are a number of papillae or small pro- cesses, on the surface of the cutis vera, and which are most numerous in the more sensible parts of the body, as upon the lips, the penis, and at the points of the fingers and toes, where they are placed in double rows upon the ridges. These papillae have commonly been supposed to be formed by the terminations of the nerves of the skin, and of a plexus of small bloodvessels. , In the skin of the belly and thighs of women who have had children, there is a growth of an imperfect new skin, between the parts of the true skin. In the human body, there is no muscle which extends over the whole body like the thin mus- cle which corrugates the skin of the horse or the dog. The only muscles in the human body which bear an analogy to it, are the occipito-frontalis and platysma myoides.SOS OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. * Chemistry, vol. v. p. 530. 4th edit. Chemical Analytis of the Cutis Vera. The cutis vera, according to Dr Thomson, is a peculiar modification of gelatine; and is “ ena- bled to resist the action of water partly by the compactness of its texture, and partly by the vis- cidity of the gelatine of which it is formed Sect. II. OF THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE SKIN. The skin is subservient to three different pur- poses : it is the seat of the seme of touch ; it is an organ of absorption ; and of secretion. JElvery part of the surface of the body, may be said to be the seat of the sense of touch. Every part of the skin does not possess the same degree of sensibility, the cuticle being much thick- er, and the nerves being more numerous, in some than in other places. By this sense we are less apt to be deceived than by the other senses, there being no intermediate body between the substance and us, when that substance affects the nerves of touch.203 OF THE SENSE OF TOUCH. Dr Reid has justly observed : “We perceive not one quality only, but many, and these of dif- ferent kinds. The chief of these are heat and cold, hardness and softness, roughness and smooth- ness, figure, solidity, motion, and extension; where- as the senses of smelling, of tasting and hearing, are very simple and uniform ; each of them ex- hibiting one kind of sensation, and thereby indi- cating only one of the qualities of the bodies.” There are some animals, as the bat, which are so constructed as to receive such delicate impres- sions of resistance, motion and temperature, that 'Spallanzani has been led to suppose that they possess a shth sense. He observed, that these animals when set at liberty, after he had put out their eyes, and had stopped their ears and noses, were capable of flying through subterraneous crooked passages vvithout striking against the walls, and even avoided many obstacles which were put in their way. The skin is also an organ of absorption. There are some anatomists who have described the man- ner in which the absorbent vessels of the skin take their rise from that organ. But I believe that the absorbent vessels of the surface of the human skin cannot be demonstrated, though there cannot be a doubt that the skin is an organ of ab- sorption ; for mercury, turpentine, and various other substances rubbed upon the skin, are rapid- ly taken into the general system.outlines OF ANATOMY. 204- The orifices of the absorbent vessels of the skin of fishes may be demonstrated, as my Father discover- ed in the skate. The absorbent vessels of that fish are not provided with valves; and hence any fluid thrown into their larger trunks passes readily into the smaller branches, and flows out by a number of orifices, which are regularly disposed upon the surface of the skin *. The skin is an organ of secretion. There are a number of vessels which open upon the surface of the skin, through which the matter of insensible perspiration passes. The perspirable matter may be perceived, by confining the arm in a clear glass vessel. The quantity of matter discharged by the insensi- ’ ble perspiration, is, according to the experiments of Sanctorius, Keil, Rye, Robertson, Se- chin, and others, greater than all the other ex- cretions. • ' The quantity of the insensible perspiration va- ries in different climates ; the warmer and drier the climate, ccoteris paribus^ the greater the quantity of the perspiration. The matter contains water; according to Cruick- SH ANK, an oil; and according to Berthollet, the phosphoric acid. There are also the ducts of a number of glands, which are placed under the skin, and open up- on its surface ; these secrete a concrete cerumi- nous matter, which may be squeezed out from the * Vid. Monro on Fishes.OF THE HAIRS. ' 205 orifices of the ducts of these glands in the form of small worms. This substance is sometimes accumulated in the form of small white fetid lumps between the glans of the penis and the prepuce. These sebaceous glands are most numerous in such parts of the skin as are exposed to the air, or to attrition ; as in the nose, ears, nipples, and external parts of generation. There are some authors who have described what they have called miliary glands, which they have supposed serve for the secretion of the mat- ter of perspiration. Anatomists are not agreed whether the sensible perspiration or sweat, and the insensible perspira- tion, pass through the same or a different system of vessels. According to Spallanzani, the skin produces the same changes upon the air as the lungs. Air has also been stated to be secreted by the skin. Sect. III. OF THE HAIRS. Every part of the human body is covered with hairs, which vary as to length and fineness in dif- ferent parts of the body; those of the head and beard are the longest; and then those of the pubes and axillae, nostrils, ears, eye-lashes, and eye-brows.OUTLINES or ANATOMY. 205 The hairs grow from bulbs of various forms,' which are imbedded within the cellular substance under the skin.' Each bulb has been said to have two capsules or membranes, with an oily fluid interposed be- tween them, from which the hairs derive their co- lour. Different opinions have been entertained respec- ting the structure of the human hairs. Accord- ing to some authors, each hair is made up of a se- ries of smaller hairs ; and according to others, each hair is a tube through which the oily fluid which gives the hair a peculiar colour, flows. It must be acknowledged, that we are still ig- norant respecting the structure of the human hairs, which are so slender as to render it extremely dif- ficult to examine their structure. In quadrupeds, the hairs are much larger ; and the bristles of the boar, when examined by the aid of the microscope, have been observed to be com- posed of a number of filaments; and in the middle of the bristle, there are two canals, which contain a liquor, called the medulla. / Chemical Analysis of Hair. From the experiments of Vauqjjelin, it ap- pears, that black hair is composed of the following ingredients ; An animal matter, constituting the greatest part.OF THE FAT. 207 A white solid oil, small in quantity. A greyish-green oil, more abundant. Iron, state unknown. Oxide of manganese. Phosphate of lime. Carbonate of lime, very little. Silica. Sulphur. The colouring matter of hair, according to the same distinguished chemist, is an oil, which is blackish-green in black hair ; red, in red hair ; and white, in white hair. He also supposes that sul- phureted iron contributes to the colour of dark hair. Sect. IV. OF THE FAT. • Fat is lodged in the cellular substance, in small vesicles, whieh are surrounded by a network of bloodvessels. Fat is found, not only under the skin, but also between the muscles ; in the cheeks, orbits, on the surface of the heart, around the kidneys at the loins, in the omentum, Ss-c. But there is no fat within the brain, in the eye- lids, within the lungs, liver, spleen, or kidney.208 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. OJ the Uses of the Fat. The fat serves a variety of purposes. By filling up the interstices, it gives the members of the body their proper form, and also defends the more delicate parts. It perhaps serves to lubricate the interior parts. The omentum, in structure, very much resembles the subcutaneous fat, and probably renders the sur- face of the abdominal bowels slippery ; as in the quadruped, it extends the whole length of the ab- domen, but in man generally descends no lower than the umbilicus. The fat, like other parts of the body, is constant- ly changing : it exudes, and is wasted by exer- cise, chiefly in consequence of the absorption of it by the lymphatic vessels. -Perhaps fat re-absorbed into the system may serve some very useful purpose in the animal economy. Tat is very nutritious. Dr Stark lived for se-. veral months on suet and water, and was well nou- rished during that time, “ but at last fell a martyr to Cheshire cheese.” Analogy seems to put this point beyond the reach of controversy. Tt has been observed, that dormant animals, though very fat at the com- mencement of winter, become very lean towards its conclusion. The absorption of a considerable quantity of fat has been stated to communicate to the serum of the blood a whitish tinge.AUTHORS ON THE BRAIN AND NERVES. 20Q Authors on the Brain and Nerves. Joann. Gottl. Haase, Cerebri Nervorumque Corporis Human! anatome repetita. Lipsise, 1781, octava forma epitome. Alie;x. Monro, Observations on the Structure and Functions of the Nervous System, Edinburgh, 1783, fol. Joann. Gottl. Walter, Tabulae Nervorum thoracis et abdominis, Berolini, 1783. VicQ D’azyr, Traite d’Anatomie et Physiologie. avec des planches colorees, Paris, 1786, fol. Georgh Coopmans, Neurologia, edit, altera Frane- querae, 1789, 8vo. SoE.MMfe.RiNG, de basi Encephali et originibus Nervorum. Murray, de infundibulo Cerebri et variationibus Nervi intercostalis. Platner de causis consensus Nervorum physiologicis. Soemmering et Noethig, de decussatione Nervorum opticorum. Bang, descriptio Nervorum cervicalium. Wrisberg, de quinto pare Nervorum Cerebri. Girardi, de Nervo intercostal!. Ludwig, de plexibus Nervorum abdominalium. Soemmering, de acei*valo Cerebri. Wrisberg, de Nervis visccrum abdominalium. Antomus Scarpa, Tabulae neurologicae, ad historiam anatomicam Nervorum cardiacoriuni, iioni Nervorum Ce- rebri, glossopharyngaei et pharyngaei, &c. ; fol. Ticini, 1794. Jon. Christ. Reil, Exercitationes anatornicae, fasci- culus primus, de structura Nervorum. Halae ad Salam, 1796, 8vo. VOL. III. OS'lO OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. Anatomle et Physiologic du Systeme Nerveux general, et du Cerveau en particulier, avec des Observa- tions, sur la possibilite de reconnoitre plusieurs disposi- tions intellectuels et morals de rhomme et des animaux, par la configuration de leurs tetes; par F. J. Gall et G. Spurzein, Paris 1810. Books on Galvanism. Moxro, on Animal Electricity. Fowler, on Animal Electricity. Robison’s Experiments on Animal Electricity. Volta, on Galvani’s Discoveries, Ph Tr, 1793. Volta, on Electricity excited by Contact, Ph. Trans. 1800. Volta’s Letter on the Causes of Galvanic Effects, Nicholson’s Journal, No. 8 4to- Fabroni, on the mutual action of Metals, Nicholson’s Journal, J793. Aluini’s Experiments, London. W Li-s, on the Galvanic Contraction of Muscles, Ph. Trans. 1795. Experiments and Observations on Galvanism, by Nicholson, Carlyle, Davy; Nich. i.—v. Rittkr on Galvanic Phenomena ; Nich. vi. and vii. Davy’s Outlines of a View of Galvanism. Authors on the Structure of the Nose. Monro, on the First Pair of Nerves; in his Nervous System. Haller.—Sneider.—Scarpa.—J. PIunter.AUTHOkS ON THE EVE. 211 ■ , Authors on the Eye. PorteRFiELD) on the Eye ; Edin, 1759. Adams, on Vision; 8vo. Lond. 17 -2. CoMPARETTi, Observationes dioptricse et anatomicse ; 4to Pad. 1798. Leeuwenhock, on the Crystalline Lens; Ph. Tr, 1648.—xiv. Duverney, on the Organ of Vision Lahire, on the I'.ye.—A. P. ix. 355. x. 478. Petit, on the Chambers of the Eye. Lecat, on the Coats of the Eye. Demoors, on the Vitreous Humour, the Cornea, and the Uvea. A. P. l741. ZiN.v, on the External Parts of the Eye. C Gott. 1753. iii. 115. Alrinus, on the Eye. Musch. Introd ii. 744. I.EVEir.LE, on the Eoramen of the Retina. B. Soc. Phil, an 5. n. 54. Home, on Soemmering's Orifice in the Human Retina. Ph. Tr 1798. CiiENEvix, on the Analysis of the Humours of the Eye. Ph. Tr. 1803. Nich. vi. 21. Ph. M. xvi. 2G8. Mariotte and Pecquet, on the Insensible Spot of the Retina, and on the Seat of Vision. Ph. Tr. 1068. iii. Soemmering, on the Eye. Mery, on the Principal Organ of Vision. A P. 17o4. Porterfield, on the External and Internal Motions of the Eye. Ediq^. Med. Essays, iii. iv. D’Alembert. A. P. 1705. Young, on the Mechanism of the Eye Ph. Tr. 1801. 23. Home’s Croonian Lecture. Ph. Tr. 1795. i. Berkeley, on Vision. O 2OUTLINES OF ANATOMY'. £M2’ . Wells, on Single Vision with two eyes. Svo. LonJ. 1792. R. S. Ware, on a Recovery of Sight. Ph. Tr. ISOl. 382. Nich. Svo. i. 57. Myopibus juvamen, R. II. Hooke. Ph. Coll. n. 3.' p. 59. Monro’s Three Treatises, on the Brain, the Eye, and the Ear. Edin. 1797. Authors on the Organ of Hearing. V Duvernev, de POuie. l2mo. Vasalva de Aure, 4to, Bologn. 1704. Leprotti, on the Perforation of the Membrana Tym- pani. Arderon, on the Hearing of Fish. Ph. Tr. 1748. 149. Haller, Physiol, v. VicQ D’Azyr on the Ear of Birds. A. P. 1778. Hunter, on the Organ of Hearing of Fish. Ph. Tr. 1782. Monro’s Treatise on tlie Ear. Edin., 4to., 1797. Scarpa, de Auditu et Olfactu. fol. Pav. 1789. CoMPARETTi, de Aure Interna. 4to. Pad 1789. Home, on the Membrana Tympani. Ph. Tr. 1800,~1. A. Cooper, on the Destruction of the Membrana Tyin- pani. Ph. Tr. 1800. Cooper, on an Operation for Deafness. Pli. Tr. 1801. 4.35. On Hearing by the Teeth. B. Soc. Phil. n. 4l. Nich. iv. 383. GouGHy on the Method of judging of the Position of Sonorous Bodies. Manch. Mer^. vol. 622. Soemmering, on the Ear. Monro’s Experiments on Hearing.—Vid. Book on Hearing.AUTHORS ON PERSPIRATION. 213 Authors on Perspiration. Celsus, Lib. i, cap. 1. Sanctoaini, Ars de Statica Medicina, Hagse Coniltis, 1664. Haller, Elementa Physiolog. Corp. Human. Tom. v.- p. 68. Abernethy, Surgical and Physiological Essays. Lon- don, 1793. <!Jruickshank, on the Insensible Perspiration. London, 1793. Lavoisier and Segdin, Observations. Memoires de I’Academie des Sciences, 1790, p. 610. Fourcrot, Systeme des Connaissances Chiniiques, Tom. 9. The Count de Milly and Lavoisier, Histoire de I'A- cademie Royale des Sciences-et Belles I^ettres de Berlin, an 1777, p. 35. Incenhousz, Experiences sur les Vegetaiix. Tom. i. p. 152. Experiments and Observations by Dr Priestley, vol. v. p. 103. Irvine’s and Gattonls Experiments, Histoire dc la Societe Royale de Mcdecine. Tom. x. An Essay on the Functions of the Skin, by Aberne- THY. London, 1793. Trousset’s Experiments. Annales dc Chimie, 45. 73.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 214> Authors on Absorption by the Skin. Hallf.r, Element. Physiolog. Corp. Human. Tom. v. p. 88. Edit. Lausane, 1769. Si'Gum, Experiments, La Medecine Eclair(^e, &c, Tom. iii. Cruickshank, on the Absorbents. ' De Haen, Ratio Medendi. Pars iv, chap. 3. Ford, on the Absorption by Skin in Dropsy. Lond. Med. Communic. vol. ii. Fr. Home’s Observations, Medical Facts and Experi- ments, p. 250. Chalmers on Absorption by the Skin. London MecJ. Trans vol. ii. Schunickier, on the application of Emetics to the Skin. Miscell. Chirurg vpl i. p. 335. Captain Reich’s Voyage to Otaheite.O 4> PART XXI.•^9 • . *v 1^.^“ ’ ■* *ii V •■ ** - : 1 > • ■ ■* I-i '<■ ■ r'. .V ■ ‘ '‘*j5 V', ^T*STJ ? *_ fifin iB .»«( •<!♦». I I .IXZ TJU*f .»«f ,v ^n^ Jg .<•4' .-V ' . «£. > * •» T nn •• •>,<J J»l..t»»,*^ ... ■ .... , ■ V- ■►-A '^‘v V'* iwf^ ^ ^ .: ISiUll *>’ V- ^.v i*t,- ^ -*•- *u ^*3f ' • /*f«h 3*4f nwil* iruii** imi*^'^' * . ■ > .. % - . .' ^ii- *iM r*f ■XSN[ 217 ] CHx^PTER I. ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE MEM- BRANES OF THE BKAIN, CEREBELLUM, AND SPINAL MARROW. Sect. I. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE DURA MATER. The Dura Mater has sometimes been inflamed; it then acquires a pink colour; and there are many small vessels on its surface, which pass into the in- ner table of the skull. Small pieces of bone are occasionally formed upon the dura mater ; these bones are commonly very thin, and have ragged edges. Cauliflower-like excresences sometimes grow from the dura mater, where a violent blow upon the head has been received. The portion of the skull over the tumour is de- stroyed, and the excrescence from the dura mater appears as an external swelling under the scalp.,218 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. The arachnoid coat of the brain is sometimes much thickened, in consequence of disease : in one instance I saw small pieces of bone on it. The pia mater is sometimes, though rarely, in- flamed ; in which state its vessels are filled with florid blood; and according to DrBAiLLiE, “ when the pia mater is inflamed to a great degree, pus is formed.” Scrofulous tumours have been described by Dr Baillie, as sometimes adhering to the inside of the pia mater. Hydatids are sometimes attached to the pia mater. Sect. II. ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE BRAIN. Inflammation of the brain is very rare in this country, excepting from external violence. The brain then becomes firmer, more solid, and darker coloured than natural. Abscesses are sometimes found in the brain ; more frequently in the cerebellum. Gangrene of the brain has •also been described. Tumours of different descriptions have been observed in the substance of the brain ; those which are white, firm and solid, are the most frequent. Tumours of a cartilaginous consistence are fre- quently observed within the substance of the219 DISEASES or THE BRAIN. brain : the ossification takes place in the cen- tre, and gradually extends to the circumference of such tumours ; and in a few cases I have seen such tumours entirely converted into bone. A watery fluid is frequently collected within the ventricles of the brain, and sometimes, though rarely, between the membranes of the brain. The quantity of watery fluid collected is very- various, amounting in some instances to one or two ounces only, but in others to several pounds. Children are sometimes born with this disease ; the bones of the skull are disunited from each other, as in Plate xxii; and the head thereby at- tains an unnatural magnitude ; the child in a few instances lingering under the disease for several months or years. Such has usually been called the chronic form of hydrocephalus. In other instances, the water is rapidly effused after the bones of the skull have been consolidat- ed, and the patient generally dies in four or five weeks; this is the acute hydrocephalus. There is a third and intermediate stage, which has not been described by any author with w’hose works I am acquainted. In this form of the disease, the sutures of the adult give way ; the bones of the skull are separated j and the patient lingers under the disease for several months. When a large quantity of water has been ac- cumulated within the ventricles of the brain, these220 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. attain a prodigious size, and the substance of the brain, bounding the ventricles, becomes unnatu- rally thin, and is not so readily torn as in the healthy state. But when only a small quantity of water has been accumulated, I have generally remarked, that the brain was softer, of a paler colour, and more easily torn than in the healthy state. Blood or serum is sometimes effused between the dura and pia mater, or within the substance of the brain or ventricles of that organ ; and in some in- stances the blood is fluid, but in others firmly coa- gulated. When the blood has been effused in consequence of external violence, the brain around the effused blood retains its healthy structure ; but in other cir- cumstances, the brain around the’effused blood, loses its healthy organization, and frequently acquires the consistence of custard. When blood has been effused upon the surface of the brain, I have sometimes observed a number of small exostoses, growing from the internal table of the skull; and, in a few cases, canals pas- sing from the place where the blood had been ef- fused, filled by yellow coloured serum. Hernia of the brain sometimes occurs, from an aperture in the skull, the consequence of mal- conformation, disease, or trephining.221 DERANGEMENTS OF THE NOSE, &C. CHAPTER II. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE NOSE, AND SINUSES CONNECTED WITH IT- THE nostrils of infants arc sometimes closed by- means of a membrane stretched across them. The nose, from its situation, is much exposed to external injury*; its cartilages are torn off or destroyed by lues venerea or cancer, or its bones may be broken in an oblique or transverse direc- tion. The mucous membrane, which lines the nose, is subject to the same organic derangements, as other mucous membranes. It is frequently inflamed, by which it attains an unnatural thickness, and its surface becomes more red and spongy, than in the healthy state. This inflammation is sometimes limited to the nose; on other occasions, it extends to the mem- brane which lines the frontal and maxillary sinuses. 1 he nose is also the seat of an herpetic aftec-OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 222 tion, which is often of very considerable duration, attacking one side of the nose after the other, call- ed by authors, Noli me tangerc. Polypi frequently are attached to the mem- brane of the nose ; and these sometimes attain so large a size, as to project beyond the nostrils. Those polypi which are found in the nose, are of different kinds, and similar to those which have been already described, as occupying the alimen- tary canal. Inflammation of the membrane of the antrum maxillare, is by no means unfrequent; it is some- times followed by ulceration: and suppuration ; Tumours are occasionally found in the antrum ; and these are accompanied by caries and erosion of the surrounding bones, and in such cases, the pus sometimes flows out at the angle of the eye, in the cheek, palate, or at the side of the grind- ing teeth. Cysts containing a watery fluid, are sometimes met with in the antrum maxillare. Worms have sometimes been found within the frontal sinuses and antrum. The bones over the frontal sinuses have been often fractured, as also the os maxillare superius, by external violence.derangement of the eye-ball. 223 CHAPTER III. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE EYE-BALL, AND ITS APPENDAGES. The eye-ball, being made up of parts of differ- ent structures, is liable to a great variety of orga- nic derangements. The sclerotic coat, the choroid coat, and optic nerves, are subject to particular organic derange- ments; and the eye lids and lacrymal passages, to all the diseases of mucous membranes. Besides, diseases which were primarily limited to one part of the eye, are frequently communicated to the ad- jacent parts. Sect. L OF ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE CORNEA. The Cornea, which is covered by the tunica adnata, is subject to inflammation, which some-22‘i OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. times appears in the form of ^ spot or speck, of which there are different descriptions. ' The word pterygium has been employed to denote a red-coloured membrane, of a triangular shape, which generally grows from the internal angle of the eye, and extends over the margin of the cornea ; the thickness also of the pterygium va- ries in different cases ; most frequently it resem- bles a thin vascular membrane ; at other times, it is like a fleshy tumour. . In consequence of inflammation, a dense lymph is sometimes effused between the layers of the cor- nea, which constitutes the disease called albugo or Icucoma. Fleshy excrescences sometimes grow from the cornea, and with hairs growing from the centre. Fungous tumours are sometimes, though rarely, connected with the cornea. Pustules, which appear like yellow or red spots, somewhat elevated above the surface of the cor- nea, have been observed ; and these are generally attended by inflammation, and an enlargement of the bloodvessels of the eye. . These pustules advance to suppuration ; and in their centre there is often a white chalky substance. Blood or purulent matter have in some cases been collected between the layers of the cornea: when pus has been effused, the disease is termed fungus, and appears like a spot of a yellow colour.DERANGEMENTS OF THE CORNEA. 225 Wounds inflicted on the cornea often occasion ulceration of it. The cornea has been in some cases much ex- tended ; in some such cases it becomes harder, but in others softer than usual ; it assumes a conical shape ; projects considerably beyond the eye-lids, is opaque, of a pearly colour, and often adheres to the iris. This disease is called tsta()hyloma. In a few cases, the disease continues stationary ; but in others the diseased cornea, probably in con- sequence of the stimulus of the air, and the fric- tion of the eye-lids, to which it is continually ex- posed, becomes gradually more and more promi- nent, and in general more or less inflamed. Scarpa, in his late Treatise upon the Diseases of the Eyes, has described what he has called the staphyloma of the sclerotic coat. In -this disease, the posterior.part of the sclerotic coat, at the side of the optic nerve, was elevated into an ob- long tumour, which somewhat resembled a small nut. The cornea, is sometimes, though rarely, par- tially ossified : the bony scales are generally very thin, and lodged between the layers of the cor- nea. Hairs sometimes grow from the cornea. VOI.. III. P226 OOTLINES OF ANATOMY, Sect. II. or INFLAMMATION OF THE EYE-BALL, The eye-ball is extremely subject to inflamma- tion, which is sometimes limited only to the in- ternal parts of the eye-ball, or chiefly to the re- tina. When the inflammation is external, vessels fil- led by red blood are seen ramifying upon the cor- nea ; and frequently there are little vesicles con- taining red blood upon the cornea, sometimes ac- companied by the effusion of blood between the tunica adnata and sclerotic coat. There is a kind of inflammation of the eye- ball, which is attended with the discharge of a yel- low or greenish matter ; and this form of the dis- ease has been called the purulent ophthalmia. It may be proper to add, that Mr John Pear- son has described an ophthalmia, connected with, the lues venerea, which bears a strong resemblance to the ophthalmia tarsi of scrofulqus children. . IDISEASES or THE EYE* Sect* III. ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE HUMOURS OF THE EYE. Of Organic Derangements of the Aqueous Humout* In consequence of violence, and Inflammation, a yellowish glutinous fluid is effused into the aque* ous humour of the eye, which constitutes the dis- ease called hypopium. Sect. IV. OF ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE CRYSTALLINE LENS, ITS CAPSULE, AND THE FLUID BETWEEN THEM. The crystalline lens sometimes becomes opaque, and the disease has been called crystalline ca- taract. Oculists have also described as the membra- nous cataract, an opacity in the capsule of the lens, and the epithet interstitial has been used when this is owing to an opacity in the fluid between the lens and its capsule. The crystalline cataract often appears as an opaque spot behind the pupil, and the centre of P2228 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. ■» the lens appears thicker than its circumference, the latter of which frequently assumes the appearance of a dark or black ring around the lens. The colour of the spot is various: it is either white or grey, and often the surface seems broken, like white clouds in summer, or there is an appear- ance of rays issuing as from a centre, when the dis- eased lens looks like a star. Sometimes the cataract is of a dark brown, or green hue, when the eye is examined with great attention. - The colour of the cataract is in some cases cha- racteristic of its consistence. . While a cataract is soft, and the lens is larger than common,' and seems to project beyond the pupil, the cataract is of the consistence of cream, and flows out when the capsule is punctured. This species is sometimes congenite. • There are two varieties of this*; one in which the capsule is thin and soft, the other, in vyhich the capsule is firm ; the latter has been called by Richter, cataracta cystica. Those of"a dark yellow, ash, or brown colour, are comnjonly firmer ; and in some rare cases, accord- ing to Wennel, are as hard as plaster of Paris. The harder the cataract, the smaller it general- ly is and sometimes the lens has been converted into bone. Some cataracts are partly hard and partly fluid ; sometimes fluid in the circumference, but solid in the centre, ana also mce versa.OF DROPSY OF THE EYE. 229 Sometimes the opacity is seated only in the capsule on the fore or back part, and then the cap- sule attains an unnatural thickness, and often contracts an adhesion with the iris. While examining the lens, on supposition of cata- ract, we should bear in mind the change which the lens undergoes in figure and colour during the pro- gress of life. Some cataracts have a tremulous motion ; and these are called by the French authors, catarahtcs ehranlantes. Se€T. V. J « OF DROPSY OF THE EYE. The vitreous humour is sometimes secreted in an unnatural quantity, which constitutes the dis- ease called dropsy of the eye-ball. The eye-ball attains an unnatural size ; it pro- jects forwards, and prevents the eye-lids .from shutting; the eye-ball is’kept in a state of con- stant irritation by dust, and by the eye-lashes ; and hence this disease is generally accompanied by a greater or less degree of inflammation, and also sometimes by caries of the bones of the orbit. P 3OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, ^30 Sect. VI, ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE IRIS. The iris is frequently inflamed ; it loses its heal- thy colour, becomes thickened, and the pupil is much contracted. This inflammation is usually attended by an in- flammation of the sclerotic coat; and when the disease is violent, lymph is effused on the anterior surface of the iris, and also between it and the crystalline lens ; by which the light cannot reach the bottom of the eye. From violent internal inflammation of the eye, the pupil has been completely closed ; the iris is rendered immoveable, and assumes a radiated ap- pearanqif. It may not be improper to add, that in conse- quence of a wound or ulcer in the cornea, the iris has been sometimes protruded forwards through the cornea. Sect. VII. OF AMAUROSIS, OR PALSY OF THE OPTIC NERVE. The palsy of the optic nerve is not commonly attended by any manifest organic derangement of the optic nerve.SSI BISEASES OF THE EYE-BALL. Sect. VIII. CANCER OF THE EYE-BALL. By this organic disease, the eye-ball i« much enlarged ; it assumes an irregular figure, and the vessels upon the fore-part of the eye are much en- t larged ; and upon making a section of the eye, there is little appearance of the organization ef the eye, the eye-ball resembling a piece of indura- ted flesh. When the disease has made progress, fufjgous- excrescences frequently shoot out from the ante- rior surface of the eye, which degenerate into malignant ulcers. Sect. IX. OF FUNGUS h-s:matodes of the eye-ball. In this disease, the eye-ball, which is not of its usual form, is filled by a soft substance, which in colour and consistence resembles the brain. The sclerotic coat assumes a lead colour *, the cornea ulcerates ; and fungous excrescences, of a dark purple colour, which in many cases are filled by coagulated blood, protrude from the cornea. P42 S3 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. The lymphatic glands in the vicinity of the eye, are considerably enlarged. The optic nerve generally acquires a greater or less degree of induration, which sometimes extends as far as the thalami nervorum opticorum. I have also seen the optic nerve as it were split into parts, a morbid growth filling up the intervening spaces. Sometimes there is a dark brown coloured sub- stance, of the consistence of thick oil-paint, which tinges the medullary-like substance contained vi^ithin the eye-ball; and the optic nerve is in some such cases tinged by the same dark brown colour- ed substance. The lymphatic glands in the vicinity of the optic nerve, are similarly diseased, and in some cases even the more distant parts, as the liver, kidneys,^ or uterus. CHAPTER ly. OF ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE EYE- LIDS. THE eye-lids are a frequent seat of inflamma- tion, which often extends to the cheeks; and this inflammation is apt to become chronic.DISEASES OF THE EYE-LIDS. 23S Infants at birth are subject to an inflammation of the eye-lids, which is attended by a discharge of a thick yellow purulent matter. Different kinds of tumours form on the eye- lids ; of these, the little tumour or boil, or what has been called*the stye, is the most frequent. Warts sometimes grow on the eye-lids. Encysted tumours, containing a watery fluid, are not uncommon upon the eye-lids. The eye-lids are turned outwards or inwards upon the eye-ball. The foriher is most frequent in the under eye-lid, which is turned outwards to- wards the cheek; the disease has been called ectropium. In the latter disease, called ti'ichiasis, the eye-lashes are turned inwards upon the eye- ball, which is thereby very much irritated. Sometimes the upper eye-lid cannot be elevated. Sometimes the eye-lids cannot be shut. » CIIAPl'ER V. OF ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE CA- RUNCULA LACRYMALIS. The caruncula lacrymalis becomes in some cases much enlarged, preventing the eye-lids from be- ing closed ; and in some cases exhibits a fungousOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. S34 appearance. The disease has been called Encan- this. This tumour is of an inflammatory nature, and frequently suppurates; but in other cases it re^ mains for years in an indolent state. CHAPTER VI. OF FISTULA LACRYMALIS. An obstruction to the flow of tears into the nose, occasions the distention of the lacrymal sac, and a sensible tumour at the internal angle of the eye. On pressing this tumour, a clear liquor tinged by a viscid yellow fluid, is discharged through the puncta lacrymalia. The lacrymal sac sometimes ulcerates, and its contents are discharged externally ; and this is of- -ten attended by a caries of the os unguis. Stricture sometimes occurs in the Nasal Ducts.DERANGEMENTS OF THE EAR. CHAPTER VII. OF THE ORGA'NIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE, EAR. THE external ear is much exposed to external injury. When divided partially, it may be readily reunited. The external ear has sometimes been much swelled in consequence of erysipelas, herpes, and other cutaneous disorders, especially during infan- cy ; and insects and other extraneous bodies have sometimes stuck in the meatus auditorius exter- nus. Wax, which becomes very hard, is sometimes accumulated in such quantity within the external passage, and upon the membrane of the drum, as to occasion dullness of hearing. The membrane of the drum is occasionally the seat of inflammation. Polypi sometimes grow from the membrane of the drum. There is in some instances an aperture in the membrane of the drum.236 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. An unnatural membrane has occasionally been observed in the external passage of the ear. Sometimes there is no external meatus. The tympanum has sometimes been inflamed and ulcerated, in consequence of blows, small-pox, lues venerea, or scarlatina ; and the chain of bones extended across it, has been cast out. Obstructions in the eustachian tube have been observed in venereal ulceration of- the throat, and also in the scarlatina maligna. In cases of deafness, connected with a palsy of the branches of the portio mollis, there is no ob- vious organic lesion in the nerve. Coagulable lymph has been found within the vestible of the ear. The pars petrosa of the temporal bone, has been fractured in consequence.of a fracture extending across the base of the skull. & CHAPTER VIII. ^ OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE SKIN. X N drawing out a short sketch of the diseases of the skin, I have availed myself of many of the'257 derangements'OF THE SKIN. the observations of Dr Will an, and have'added a very brief account of his method of arranging these. Dr WiLLAN has arranged diseases of the skin in eight orders. Order 1.—Papul.e*, which comprise three genera, strophulus, lichen, and prurigo. The strophulus is a papulous eruption, which ex- hibits a variety of forms, and which may be de- scribed under the titles, strophulus intertinctus or .red gum, albidus, confertus or tooth-rash, volaticus, and candid us. Lichen is defined by Dr Willan to be an ex- tensive eruption of papulae affecting adults, con- nected with internal disorder, and usually termi- nating in scurf; recurrent, but not contagious. The varieties are the simple.v, pilaris, circumscrip- tus, agrius, lividus, and tropicus, or prickly heat affecting Europeans settled in tropical climates. Prurigo. Under this genus. Dr Willan has described the mitis,foi'?nicans, and senilis. In the prurigo, the papula; are larger than in the lichen, and have nearly the same colour as the skin. * PapulsB are said by Dr Willan to be very small and acu- minated elevations of the cuticle, with an inflamed base, not t'ontaining a fluid, nor tending to suppuration.OUTLlNtS OF anatomy. 238 Order 2. comprehends Squama *, or the scaly diseases of the skin, which arise from a morbid state of the cuticle. The generic diseases of this order, are /epra, psoriasis, pityriasis, and icthy* osis. The Lepra is characterised by scaly patches of different sizes, but nearly of a circular form. Of this. Dr WiLLAN has observed three species, the vulgaris, alphoides, and nigricans. The vulgaris exhibits small distinct elevations of the cuticle, which are reddish and shining, and never contain any fluid ; and in twenty-four hours, these are covered by thin white scales. In the alphoides, the scales are smaller, and their central parts are a little depressed. In the nigricans, the colour of the patches dif- fers from that of the preceding kinds ; they are dark and livid, and are not depressed in the cen- tre ; and the skin appears of a livid colour through the scaly incrustations. Psoriasis or scaly tetter. The species of this, described by Dr Willan, are the guttata, diffii- sa, gyrata, palmaria, labialis, ophthalmica, prapu- til, scrotalis, unguium, injantilis, inveterata. * Dr Willan has thus defined a scale; a lamina of morbid cuticle ; hard, thickened ; whitish and opaque. Sciales have at first the figure and extent of the cuticular lozenge?, but after- wards often increase into irregular layers, called cntsls, whicb repeatedly fall off, and are reproduced in a short time.derangements of the skin. 25^9 k The following brief description may communi- cate a general idea of the disease. The names express the form of the patches or stripes ; their seat; the period of life at which they appear, or the inveteracy of the disease. The complaint begins in small distinct scales, with little or no inflammation around them. The patches are seldom as large as a sixpence; They have not an elevated border, and their cir- cumference is angular. Pityriasis consists of irregular patches of thin slight scales, which are repeatedly produced and separated, but never - produce crusts. Dr Wil- LAN has described the pityriasis capitis^ rubra^ and •versicolor. Icthyosis is a permanently harsh, dry, scaly, and in some cases almost horny texture of the integu- ments, unconnected with internal disorder. The 3d Order of DrWiLLAN comprehends the Exanthemata or Rashes * ; some of which are contagious, others not, and some are attended by symptomatic fever : Some continue for a definite time ; others return at uncertain intervals. * Rash, according to Dr Willan, consists of red patches on the skin, variously figured ; in general confluent, and diffused irregularly over the body, leaving interstices of a natural co- lour. Portions of cuticle are often elevated in a rash, so as to give tlie sensation of an uneven surface. The eruption is ge- nerally accompanied with disorder of the constitution, and ter- minates in a few daj's by cuticular exfoliations.240 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. ' ^ V This order includes the rubeola or measles, latina or scarlet fever, urticaria or nettle-rash> Roseola, purpura, and erpthema. Rubeola or measles. In this disease, small clus- ters of pimples appear on the fourth day, which after four days disappear in small mealy desqua- mations. The pimples in different instances of this dis- ease are more or less distinct; hence nosologists have made mention of the rubeola vulgaris, where the pimples are scarcely elevated, and the rubeola variolodes or measles, with distinct elevated pimples. Urticaria or nettle-rash. In the second day of this disease, small round or oval red spots, with a white top, appear, and which are often sur- rounded by diffused redness, disappearing during the night, but returning at morning, and which in a few days go off in very minute scales. Some- times the disease appears in the form of longitu- dinal elevations of the cuticle. Scarlatina. On the fourth day of this disease, the face seems swelled ; there are large red blot- ches on the skin, which coalesce and spread over the skin, or within the mouth and fauces ; and these blotches 'of the skin are, in the course of three days, succeeded by furfuraceous scales. There are three varieties of the disease : 1. That unaccompanied by cynanche.OF ROSEOLA AND PURPURA. 241 • • . t 2. That accompanied by ulcerous cynanchci • 3. The scarlatina maligna. Roseola. This term has been used to express a rose-coloured efflorescence of the skin, which is of various figures, and the patches are generally larger and more irregular than those of the measles. They are at first red, but soon assume the roseate hue peculiar to this complaint. The fau- ces are often tinged of the same colour, with a slight enlargement of the tonsils. The efflores- cence appears first in the evening or during the night, and continues vivid through the following day. On the fourth day, only slight specks of a dark red colour are perceptible, which disappear on the fifth day. In many cases, the eruption is limited to the face, shoulders or neck. This is not an idiopathic disease ; but is rather connected with fevers of different descriptions. Dr WiLLAN has described the following varie- ties of it; the cEsi ’wa, autumnalis, ammlata, injan- tUis, variolosa, vaccina, and miliaris. Purpura, or Petechice sine Febre.—The petechias sine febre, are small circular purple spots, about the size of a coriander seed, which appear sud- denly and without fever, and go off slowly. VOL. III. QOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 342 Erythema is described as synonymous with the Erysipelas according to Dr Cullen’s arrange- ment. Order 4. Eull<t *. This order, according to Dr WiLLAN, includes three genera; erysipelas, pemphigus, and pompholyj;. The skin is subject to inflammation or erysi- pelas which is attended by redness, pain, heat and swelling, which rapidly spread from one part of the skin to another ; and the peculiarities of> this inflammation are entirely owing to the texture of the skin. This inflammation terminates in vesications, de- squamation of the cuticle, or gangrene. This, like many of the other diseases of the skin, is attended by symptomatic fever. The erysipelas is sometimes confined to the ex- tremities’ of the body, sometimes to the head ; which form of the disease has been called sidera- tio ; or sometimes it spreads round the waist, which form has been called zona or belt. Pemphigus. On the first, second or third day of this disease, vesicles appear, nearly of the size * A large portion of the cuticle, detached from the skin by the interposition of a transparent watery fluid, is called by Dr WiLLAN hullce or blebs. He bas added: Soon after the water is discharged, the excoriated surface is covered with a flat, yellow, or blackish scab, which remains till a new cuticle is formed un- derneath. Both vesicles and blebs, when they have a dark r#d ©r livid base, are by medical writers calledphlyctcenee’'OF POMPHOLYX AND HERPES. 243' of hazel-nuts; these continue for several days, and then burst and discharge a thin ichor. These vesicles * sometimes appear a few days after birth ; and when broken, are succeeded by ulceration. Pompholyx. This eruption appears in the form of a tumour, filled by lymph, which is about the size of a pea, or in some cases of a hazel-nut j and tumours of this description frequently appear in succession, on the legs, arms, chin, temples, &-c. They break in four days, and there is no pit or ci- catrix left. , Of Herpes. In the herpetic eruption, there is a small vesicle, with a thin scale at top ; and the base is surround- ed by erysipelatous inflammation. Sometimes herpes appears under the form of flat patches, which are covered by small scales* This form of the disease is very common on the scalp. When the scale falls off, the skin be- low is generally nearly sound, though somewhat discoloured. The herpes also appears in the form * of Very small vesicles, like millet-seeds; which ap- pear in clusters, ^nd are filled by a viscid lymph, which exuding, forms rough yellow scabs j 0,2 * By vesicles, are meant tam(^urs filled by a watery fluid ^ by pustules, tumours filled by pus.'J4i4 "OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. ' and when the scab falls off, it is apt to he re- newed. This kind of herpes sometimes attacks the throat. Another kind of herpes has been called the herpes exedens ; for it destroys the skin : some- times it spreads along the surface, but in other cases penetrates deep. Of Tinea Capitis. The Tinea Capitis is a white or yellow scabby eruption of the hairy scalp, the consequence of inattention to cleanliness, and which often spreads over the whole head. Of ImpetigOf or Ring~JVorm. In this disease, there are a number of small red pimples, filled by a thin acrid fluid, which arc disposed in a circular manner. • This disease, in some constitutions, becomes of an inveterate nature, and is diffused over the whole skin, like the lepra. * Of Fsora. • This disease appears chiefly between the fingers, on the wrists, and on the folds of the elbow, shoul- der,' and knee joints, under the form of smallOF CHILBLAIN AND LEPRA. 245 pimples or pustules, of which the base is hard, with a watery looking top. When the pustules are broken, scabs are form- ed partly by blood, and partly by the matter from the pustules. If the vesicles or pustules be not broken, they terminate by a slight desquamation of the cuticle. Small boils sometimes appear in the course of the disease. According to some authors, animalcula are seen in the pustules. Of PerniOy or Chilblain. ' The skin of the fingers or toes, which are affect- ed by chilblains, assumes a deep purple or leaden colour. The skin breaks in some cases, and dis- charges a thin fluid ; and in some cases mortifies and sloughs off, leaving an ill-conditioned ulcer. Of Lepra. % In this disease, there are a humber of copper- coloured spots over the whole body ; these are in a great measure insensible. The skin, when the disease has made progress, ’ becomes rough and scaly, or is covered by \varts; ' and foetid sores sometimes break out in different parts of the body.346 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, > Of Elephantiasis. f This organic derangement of the skin has been called elephantiasisy as the part affected bears a strong resemblance to the skin of the elephant. The disease is generally confined to one leg, but in some cases it extends to both. The affected limb is much swollen, and often scaly, and covered by lumps, and a number of un^ even fissures. According to some, the disease ex-r ists chiefly in the cellular substance. Of Ecthymay or Terminthus, These terms have been applied to describe boils, which are often attended with considerable in- flammation and suppuration. The abscess having burst, a scab forms, and the inflammation subsides. . Aphtha. The little white specks, or vesicles, called aph- thcEy have been already described, under the head of the Organic Diseases of the Alimentary Canal.247 OF CORNS, AND SMALL-POX. Condyloma. A condyloma is a white warty excrescence, situated frequently near the pudenda. These are frequently collected into clusters in those whose constitutions are deeply tainted by lues venerea. # Of Clavus, or Coj'ns. Corns are hard excrescences of the cuticle, of a laminated structure, which seem to be occasioned by pressure, and are most frequent on the toes. These are hardest in the centre, often assume a conical figure, generally are moveable, but in some cases immoveable, from having contracted an ad- hesion with the tendons of the muscles, or with the periosteum of the bones. Variola, or Small-Poa'. The variola, or small-pox, has been enumerated among the diseases of the skin. A number of small red pimples shew themselves on the third day of this disease, Avhich, in the course of eight days suppurate, and then fall off in crusts, leavipg pits in the skip, 0^4OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, 24<8 The species of this disease, are the Distinct and Confluent sinall-pox. Varicella, or Chicken-Pox, The vesicles in this disease, resemble very much those of the small-pox; the pustules, however, are filled by lymph, and they seldom suppurate ; crusts appear on the fourth br fifth day, and in general no scar or pit is left behind. The pustules are seldom, if ever confluent. Dr WiLLAN has described the Lenticular, the Conoidal, and the Swine or bleb-pox. Of Vaccina, or Cow-Pox. This disease appears on the teats of cows, in the form of small grey-coloured pustules, which are surrounded by an erysipelatous inflammation. The disease is communicated to persons employ- ed in milking the cows. Where the cuticle has been removed, small inflamed spots appear in a few days after exposure to the infection^ which quickly assume the appearance of blisters, and then become large vesicles of a circular form, and with a depres- sed centre. The lymphatic glands in the vicinity are af- fected, and there is an erysipelatous redness around the vesicles. These vesicles, when irritated, sometimes run into foul ulcers.249' OF COW-POX. The progress of the cow-pox is somewhat dif- ferent, when it is received by inoculation with a lancet. About the third day, a slight inflammation may be observed in the part inoculated *, and it feels hard when the finger is drawn over it. On the fifth day, a small circular vesicle shews itself, which is depressed in the centre, and turgid in its circumference. During the sixth and seventh days, the vesicle increases in size, retaining its original characters; and on the eighth day the vesicle has a circular ap- pearance, and the margin is regular and well de- fined ; the centre is still more depressed, where a small crust begins to appear. If the vesicle be punctured, all its contents are not discharged at once. The vesicle is composed of many cells, and somewhat resembles a honey- comb. About the ninth day the vesicle is surrounded by a deep red coloured areola, which is to the touch hard ; and about the same time an erysi- pelatous redness sometimes takes place around the areola, and spreads so as to cover a part of the skin of the arm, equal in bulk to a circle of two or more inches in diameter. On the ninth day, the vesicle is of its largest size ; and on the eleventh day the areola de- creases, and the surface of the vesicle becomes brown in its centre, and a dark brown coloui>250* OUTLINES or ANATOMY. ed scab is formed, which falls off about the eigh- teenth or twentieth day. Under the scab, there is a cicatrix. From the eighth day, the glands in the axilla are a little swelled in inoculation, and this gene^ rally subsides with the affection on the arm. Cancer of the Skin. The skin is also subject to cancer. The disease shews itself under the form of small superficial tubercles or warts, of a brown colour. These warts are most frequent on the alae nasi, lips, and eye-lids. These tubercles often remain indolent for a time, and in consequence of being irritated, become ex- tremely painful, generate cancerous matter, and pour out blood. The tumour rapidly extends along the skin, and penetrates, in some cases, even to the bones. Chimney-sweepers are subject to a particular kind of cancer in the scrotum, which has been described by Mr Pott. Tumours of the skin, originating from an en- largement of the arteries or veins of the skin, also occur. Small excrescences of a purple or blue colour are frequently observed in different parts of the skin ; sometimes they are of a brown colour, rough, warty, and hairs grow from them. These have been called need materni.aneurism by anastomosis. . S51 'The disease called aneurism by anastomosis, is originally a disease of the bloodvessels of the shin. The tumour is to the touch, elastic *, it gradually enlarges, acquires a dark purple colour, and bleeds frequently ; and I have observed, that, in some iijstanccs,L it feels colder than the surrounding skin. CHAPTER V. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE CELLULAR SUBSTANCE. ATER and pus are frequently collected in the cellular substance, and sometimes air. The most frequent organic derangement of the cellular substance is phlegmon, a tumour of a vivid red colour, with a circumscribed base, which rises into a point, and which frequently terminates in abscess. In consequence of inflammation condensing the surrounding parts, and by the effusion of the coa- gulablc lymph, a cyst is formed, which contains the purulent matter which has been secreted. Abscesses frequently burst externally, in conse- quence of the absorption of that part of the cyst which is nearest to the surface of the body. The skin also gives way. But tendinous fascia are notOUTLINES OF ANATOMY.' 252 thus rapidly destroyed by absorption ; hence the pus, when lodged under these, instead of being dis- charged externally, finds its way into the cellular substance, and among the surrounding muscles. 1 When an abscess is deep seated, it sometimes bursts externally by a sgiall opening ; and upon the matter being discharged, the orifice contracts; the edges of the canal become hard, or, to make use of the technical language, fistulous, by the ha- bitual discharge from the deep seated abscess. Carbuncle^ a broad flat red tumour, may be enumerated among the organic derangements of the cellular substance, though by many it is enumerated among the diseases of the skin, which is very much thickened, and has at the same time a dark purple colour. The surface of the tumour becomes dark and livid, and there is a number of small apertures, through which the contents of the tumour are dis- charged. Of Encysted Tumours. Encysted tinnours of different kinds are lodged in the cellular substance, viz.: Melicerisy an encysted tumour which contains matter of the consistence of honey. Atheroma, an encysted tumour filled by a white pultaceous matter, like chalk and water.253 CANCER OF THE SKIK# Steatoma, an encysted tumour containing a sub- tance like fat or suet. Hydatis, are encysted tumour filled by a watery fluid and other smaller hydatis. Ganglion, an encysted tumour connected with the tendons and ligaments, which is generally ot an oval shape, and rarely exceeds a pigeon’s egg in size. Ranula, an encysted tumour under the tongue, which is frequently filled by a fluid like cream, or animal jelly. Small encysted tumours, filled hy fat and hairs, are sometimes met with in the cellular sub- stance. Fleshy and hard tumours, which have been cal- led sarcomata, are occasionally lodged in the 'cel- lular membrane. A worm, called Gordius, and also Lice, may be enumerated among the diseases of the skin and cellular membrane. The fungus hamatodes has sometimes been ob- served in the cellular substance; this disease some- times begins as a distinct tumour, and sometimes as a general swelling of the part, and the veins in the neighbourhood of it are much enlarged ; the swelling is to the touch, soft and elastic ; and on the progress of the disease, bursts, and a dark fungous excrescence rises from the centre of it, which discharges a good deal-of blood. Upon dissection, a substance like brain is found to occupy the greater part of the tumour.254 OUTLINES OF ANATOMV. 'AUTHORS ON THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE DRAIN AND ORGANS OF THE SENSES. Authors on Apoplexy. Dionis, Diss. sur la mort subite, avec riiistolfe d’une fille cataleptique. Paris, 1710-12. Kirkland, Commentary on Apoplective and Paralytic Affections. London, 1792. Reil, Diss. de locis in Apoplexia affectis. Hall. 1795. Tissot, Epistola de Variolis, Apoplexia et Hydrope. V. opp. vi. Bartholinus, Hist. Anatom. Cent. ii. n. 60.—-(Effusio in ventriculis Cerebri.) Reil, Memorab. Clinic. Ease. iv. n 4. Williams, in Medical Facts and Observat. vol. v. n. 2. Richter, Diss. de coctionum prsesidiis evacuantiiim abusu eversis. Goett. 1758. Portal, Obs. Sur la Nature et le Traitement de I’Apo- plexie. Paris, 1811. CiiEYNE, on Apoplexy. London, 1812. Authors on Hydrocephalus. Wiiytt's Works, p. 725. Lond. Medical Observat., vol. iv. Gaudf.lius, de Hydrocephalo i apud Sandifort, The- saur. vol. ii. Edinb. Med. Essays, ii. 18. ili. 23.AUTHORS ON THE DURA MATER, &C. 255 Soc. Royale, iii. Mem. p. 194. ZiNN, de Hydrocephalo. Monro’s Cases of Chronic Hydrocephalus. Duncan’s Annals of Medicine. Baillie’s Morbid Anatomy. Sandifort, Exercit. Acad. lib. i. cap. 4. Monro’s Morbid Anatomy of Gullet, &c.—Art. on Hernia. A utliors on the Organic Derangements of the Dura Mater. • Amatus Lusitanus, Cent. v. Obs. 8. Baillib’s Morbid Anatomy. Louis, Mem. de I’Acad de Chirurg. Tom. 5. Sandifort, Mus. Lugd. Batav. J. Bell’s Principles of Surgery, voL ii. Bonn, Thesaur. Ossium Morbos, p. 53. Authors on the Organic Diseases of the Eye. ■ Burcard, David Mauchart, de Ulceribus Corne», Tubing. 1742. A Treatise on the Disease of the Eye, by George Wallis. 1785. Boeriiaave, de Morbis Oculi. Edmonston, on Ophthalmia. Veitch, on the Ophthalmia of Egypt. Ware, on the Diseases of the Eye. Scarpa, Sulle Malattie degli Occhi, or the Transla- tion of the above book into French, by Leveille. Crompton, on the Entropeon. London, 1805.256 OUTLINES OF ANATOMr. Wardrop’s Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of th«5 Eye. Edin. 1808. • C. Saunders’s Treatise on some Practical Points re- lating to the Diseases of the Eye. London, 1811. Freytag, de Cataracta.—Vid. Haller, Diss. Chirurg. Authors on the Organic Derangements of the Ear. Duverney, sur I’Organe de TOuie. Astley Cooper, Phil. Trans, for 1812. Saunders, on the Anatomy and Diseases of the Eaiv fol. Lond. 18uC. Authors on the Diseases of the Skin. WiLLAN, on Cutaneous Diseases,—ito, London, 1808. Alibert, Plates of the Diseases of the Skin. Withering’s Account of the Scarlet Fever and Sore Throat. London, 1779 ^ Fothergill, on the Pelham Sore Throat, as it ap- peared in London in 1747-8, See account of Scarlatina maligna, as it appeared in Paris in 1743. Hist, de I’Acad. des Sciences. Starr, Account of Scarlatina, which he calls an Occult Angina. Phil. Trans, for 1749, No. 49. Wall’s Account of an Ulcerated Sore Throat;—(Scar- latina maligna, as it appeared in Worcestershire and Warwickshire, about the beginning of the year 1748.) Currie, on the Effects of Cold Water, as a remedy in Fever and Febrile Diseases. Stang'r, on Scarlatina. Med. and Phys. Journal^ No. 62. • • • y Adams, on Morbid Poisons^. . . ' /AUTHORS ON DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 257 Mercurialis, De Morbis Cutaneis. Sennert, Pract. Med. Affectus Cutaneus singularis ab Abramh Vatero. Eph. Nat. Cur. i. Heberden, Comment. Edin. Med. Essays, vol. v. Rosenstein, on the Diseases of Children. Underwood, on the Diseases of Children. ’ Sydenhami Opera, Sect. vi. cap. 2. Sir W. Watson, Obs. on Measles. Med. Obs. & Inq. vol. iv. Rhazes de Morbillis et Variolis, lib. xviii. Authors on the Cow-Pox. Dr Jenner’s Enquiry. Reports of a Series of Inoculations for the Variola; Vaccinse or Cow-pox; with Remarks and Observations on this Disease, considered as a substitute for the Small- pox. By William Woodville, M. D. Physician to the Small pox and Inoculation Hospitals. Ring’s Answer to Dr Moseley. Reflections on the Cow-pox, by William Fermor, Esq. Kite’s Cases, in the Memoirs of the Medical Society of London. Willan, on Vaccination. Bryce’s Observations on the Inoculation of Cow- pox, Edin. 1809. George Bell’s Treatise on the Cow-pox, 1807. Adams on Vaccine Inoculation. Loy’s Experiments to ascertain the Origin of Cow pox. VOL. III. R258 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. Vid. Observations on the Present State of Vaccina- tion on the Continent. Ediii. Med. and Surgical Jour- nal, vol. ii, p. 126 Edin. 1806. llcport of the Surgeons of the Edinburgh Vaccine In- stitution, Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. iii. p. 253. Edinburgh, 1807. Murray’s Account of the Debates in Parliament,.re- specting the Jennerian Discovery. London. Authors on Worms found under the Skin. G. If. Welsch de Vena Medinensi. Gardanne, Maladies des Creoles; Vermes in Pustulii; ' Cutis inventi. Journal de Med. xxxiv. JoH. And. Murray, de Vermibus in Lepra obviis, Gott. 1760. Act. Helv. vol. vii. p. 177.PART XXII. .1 ■ ^ R2-V ■•■ V --■ *f r. ■ '4'ii^ ■“‘0- ^ /1iA31:Aa hit %0 KOlTUfil*»T«IO 3«*^ . " •? y :/ITah Xw/1 XiKA v»A^l3.V-^fr • »2«X«xA C ^ y f • "-r *» ||pHiPi^.rfWR^* ■ ,mnA lip$ ft^A 3iii «c*j| T w!«. '»-ji^inrKr»*i n^rmui iQfvUoq fifL Sfi f* miuL ^(b btur .iDiu^rnc ift. ^ .3ii»d sifj lo sf'jnin^V •. ^ «i * % iLH? \p •V *^<''1^^ ' .U£3d bjil ai;;ii x;ioIia drij ^sT9id 3(i| Lniiirnt <L<i:»d&sll .3vu<l4 bodh j^ab n^ad ■ • f»u lu dD^B i>iXi to aL« r»v*omo iiilJ Jb buB ; mwxI ii;^J bn& 3rit ojni esLivib ! bn* axi‘( ni fBujK>nw ait rfoixbw iZutT i^U iiji) lajojyot ‘>dj ■* M3< rwfmun fi olc.i i>*>iii/i4du^ y»«i ^^titr-hd ^ • <■'-.* ' «.[ 261 3 ' CHAPTER I. OF THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE ARTERIES, ^ VEINS, nerves, and LYMPHATIC VES- SELS. From the Pulmonary Artery and Aorta, all the arteries are derived : the former is connected with the anterior, and the latter with the posterior Ventricle of the heart. Sect. I. OF THE PULMONARY ARTERY. The origin of this artery from the heart has been described above. It ascends behind the breast- bone •, and at the concave side of the arch of the aorta, divides into the Right and Left pulmonary arteries, which are unequal in size and length; the former being larger and also longer. These branches are subdivided into a number of very small branches, which are distributed, alon^ with R3 %262 OUTLINES Of'aNATOMY. the bronchi through the substance of the lungs^ and form a network upon the cells of the lungs. Sect. II. OF THE PULMONARY VEINS. > The Pulmonary Veins follow the same course Jis the arteries ; are rather smaller than these and at length are united into four pulmonary veins^ which terminate in the posterior Auricle of the heart. Sect. III. OF THE AORTA AND CORONARY ARTERIES. The Aorta, immediately after its exit from the heart, is somewhat expanded. Behind the valves of the heart, two arteries, which are dis- tributed upon the heart, called Coronary, take their origin. The right coronary artery is the larger; it passes between the right auricle and ventricle, and divides into a number of small branches, which are distributed upon the flesh of the heart; and terminates at the apex of the heart. This artery detaches branches to the aor- ta, pulmonary artery, and to the auricle of the heart.' ARTERIES OF THE HEAD. 263 The left coronary artery passes between the left auricle and ventricle, and is subdivided into ante- rior and posterior brancheSj which are distributed on the left side of the heart. The aorta, after having sent off the coronary ar- teries, rises upwards, and somewhat to the right side ; then passes over the right branch of the pul- monary artery ; it then forms an arch opposite to the two uppermost dorsal vertebrjE, which passes over the left branch of the trachea, behind which it descends. From the arch of the aorta, three large trunks usually take their rise ; the arteria innominatai common to the right carotid and right subclavian arteries; and the left carotid and left subclavian arteries, which are separate trunks. Sect. IV; OF THE ARTERIES OF THE HEAD, AND SOME OF THOSE OF THE NECK. The head is supplied with blood by the Caro- ' TiD and Vertebral arteries. The Carotid Arteries ascend on each side of the vertebrae of the neck, between the internal ju- gular vein and the trachea, and behind the exter* nal extremities of the stcrno-mastoid muscles. R4O.UTLINES OF-ANATOMY. ' The Carotid Artery generally divides, nearly opposite to the upper margin of the thyroid card-• lagc of the larynx, into two great branches, called the external and internal carotids. The External Carotid passes behind the stylo-hyoid and digas- tric muscles, behind the angle of the lower jaw ; and during the above course, the following consi- derable branches are derived from it. The first branchy called superior thyroid^ comes off at the place of division of the common ca- rotid, descends, and suddenly divides into branches, which are distributed upon the sterno-mastoid and platysma myoides muscles, and upon the muscles which are fixed to the os hyqides, larynx, and the membrane of the larynx. The trunk of the artery always communicates with the corresponding artery of the opposite side, and also with the inferior thyroid artery, a branch of the subclavian artery. A number of small branches of this Arte- ry are distributed on the lobes of the thyroid gland. The next considerable branch is the lingual, which passes over the corner of the os hyoides, and then under the hyoglossus and genio-glossus muscles to the tongue. There are several small branches sent off from this artery, viz. a branch to the constrictor medius of the pharynx ; a branch to the hyoglossus and mylo-hyoideus mus-OF THE EXTERNAL-CAROTID ARTERY. 265 * cks j and a' branchy called ranine, which passes under the middle of the tongue, to its point. The pharyngeal artery arises a little above the lingual; and, dividing into small branches, supplies the pharynx and fauces with blood; and it en- ters the skull at the foramen jugulare, and gives branches to the dura mater, the external membrane of the brain. The next branch, which is smaller than the preceding, is called the ascending palatine; it is covered by the styloid muscle, and is distributed upon the side of the pharynx, upon the ton- , sils, tongue, and inferior maxillary gland. Small branches are also sent to the stylo-hyoid, stylo- pharyngeus, and hyoglossus muscles. The continuation of the carotid artery rises up upon the angle of the lower jaw, at the fore-part of the masseter muscle ; and hence has been call- ed the angular, facial, or external maxillary ar~ tery. ^ This artery sends off various small branches, which are distributed updifthe muscles of the face : it ascends to the internal canthusof the eye, where it anastomoses repeatedly with the branches of the ocular and frontal arteries. A large branch of this artery has been called the hferior labial. It supplies the parts of the under-lip, and anastomoses with the correspond- ing artery of the opposite side ; and there are se- veral small branches of it, which supply the buccinator muscle.266 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY* The next arteries sent off are called the supe- rior and inferior coronaryy which form an arte- • rial circle around the lips. A few small branches are sent off from this artery, which supply the cartilages of the nose. A branch called posterior artery of the ear^ is derived from the external carotid \ it is spent on the back-part of the ear. The Occipital is a large branch of the external carotid : it is covered by the digastric muscle at its origin ; it passes across the jugular vein, and be- tween the mastoid process and first vertebra of the neck ; in which course it is covered by thetrachelo- mastoid, splenius, and complexus muscles, and at length subdivides into many branches, which are distributed upon the middle of the back-part of the head. This artery also gives off branches to the di- gastric muscle, to the cervical glands, and anasto- moses with the thyroid artery. A branch of this artery, called auriciilary sup- plies the lobe of the ear, the parotid gland, and upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle. A branch of this artery passes downwards, and is distributed upon the trachelo-mastoid muscle, and the other adjacent muscles. The External Temporal Artery, isthe^next large branch of the external carotid artery; it is co- vered by the parotid gland, and afterwards passes between the jaw and the meatus auditorius exter-OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 267“ nus i and as it lies under the skin, it has been called the Superficial Temporal Artery. From it the following branches take their rise : a branch to the parotid gland ; a small branch to the masseter muscle, which anastomoses with the inferior labial artery •, and there is a branch which crosses the face in company with the duct of the parotid gland, and communicates with the facial and in- ternal maxillary arteries. The Deep Temporal is sent off behind the con- dyle of the jaw, and passes under the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle. Small branches of this artery, called the anterior auricular^ are distri- buted upon the fore-part of the* ear. The superficial temporal, after passing across the zygoma, divides into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior supplies the skin and muscles of the fore-part of the head, and anastomoses with the ocular and facial arteries. The branch divides info a number of branches, which supply the back-part of the head, and communicates repeatedly with the branches of the occipital artery. The last great branch sent off from the external carotid artery, has been called, on account of its si- tuation, the Internal Maxillary Artery, as it takes its rise from the external carotid artery, be- hind the upright plate of the under jaw, between the condyloid and coronoid processes of that ' bone.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. £68 This artery is placed between the under jaw- bone, and the external pterygoid muscle, and then ascends towards the back-part of the antrum maxillare ; and from it are derived the following branches : A branch which enters the cavity of the tym- panum by the fissure of Glasser ; a branch which passes through the spinous hole of the sphenoid bone, and is distributed upon the middle of the du- ra mater. A branch of this artery enters the under-jaw along with the third branch of the fifth pair of nerves, and is distributed upon the under jaw and teeth, and then comes out at the anterior mental hole, to be distributed on the incisor teeth, and muscles of the chin ; and anastomoses with the in- ferior labial artery. Several small branches of the internal maxillary artery are spent upon the pterygoid muscles, alve- olar processes, teeth, and antrum. A branch of the internal maxillary, passes in the canal under the orbit; supplies the fat in the bottom of the orbit; passes out at the fora- men infra-orbitarium, and then divided into many small branches, which communicate with the branches of the fascial artery. The Palato-Maxillary Artery, which passes through the foramen palatinum posterius, is distri- buted on the palate ; and a branch of it some- times passes through the foramen incisivum to the nose.GF THIS IICTER.NAL CAROTID ARTERY. 269 The Lateral Nasal Artery, is also derived from the internal maxillary; it passes through the spheno-palatine hole to supply the nose and pitui- tary membrane which lines the nose, the ethmoidal cells, the septum narium, the ossa turbinata, an- trum maxillare, and communicates with the pala- to-maxillary artery. Sect. V. OF THE INTERNAL CAROTID OR CEREBRAL ARTERY. The Internal Carotid Artery, follows a tortuous course upon the rectus capitis major mus- cle, before entering the carotid canal. The artery having passed through the above canal, is directed upwards ; then turns horizon- tally ; enters the cavernous sinus, and perforates the dura mater, at the side of the anterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone. This artery sends small branches to the dura mater, to the cavernous sinus, and small branches which accompany the third, fourth and fifth pairs of nerves. When the internal carotid artery has perforated the dura mater, it sends off the Ocular, or Oph- THAX.MIC Artery. • ,OUTLINES OF ANATOMT. 1870 This artery, situated on the outer side of the optic nerve, gives off a branch to the lacrymal gland; very small branches to the periosteum of the orbit; a branch which passes through the centre of the optic nerve, calledCentral Artery of the Retina, and which, on the inner side of the retina, divides into many branches, which, in the foetus, may be distinctly traced to the capsule of the crystalline lens ; as also the ciliary arteries, which, being un- equal as to length, have been divided into the longiores and bre^iores. The ciliares longer, pass through the sclerotic coat, pass along the choroid, and then subdivide into two branches, and anastomose with the corresponding arteries of the opposite side of the eye at the root of the iris. The ciliares breves, or posleriores, pass through the sclerotic coat of the eye-ball, near to the optic nerve. At the circumference of the iris, the corre- sponding ciliary arteries of the opposite sides are united, and form a circle, called the arterial circle oj the iris, from which a great number of small branches run towards the pupil, and many of them unite into arches, from which a number of small arteries are sent to the inner edge of the pupil. The muscles which move the eye-ball, and the fat in the orbit, are also supplied with blood by the smaller branches of the ocular artery. There are also small branches of the ocular ar- tery, which enter the nose, by the foramina or-OF THE OCULAR ARTERY. 271 bitaria interna, and which anastomose with the branches of the internal maxillary artery, which are distributed upon the inside of the nose. There is also a branch called Supra-Orbiiar, or in some cases branches called Supra-Orhi- taria, of the ocular artery, which fill the fora- mina supra-orbitaria, and which are distributed upon the anterior part of the occipito-fronta- lis .muscles, the skin and muscles of the up- per eye-lid, and which anastomose with the ante- rior branches of the temporal artery. There are branches of this artery which supply the perios- teum of the os frontis, and frontal sinuses. The other, and smaller branches of the inter- nal carotid arteries, are distributed upon the optic nerves, the infundibulum, and the choroid plexuses. There are two other large branches of the In- ternal carotid artery, the Arterice Anteriores Cere- bri, and the Arterias Mediae Fossae Sylvii. The Arteri^ Anteriores Cerebri, are dis- posed in a parallel manner in respect to each other: they run forwards along the under parts of the an- terior lobes of the brain, and communicate by means of a transverse canal. Each branch is afterwards subdivided into two branches ; the smaller is spent entirely upon the anterior lobes of the brain ; the larger is reflected backwards along the corpus callosum, and is di- vided into a great number of small branches, which anastompse repeatedly with tl^e smaller272 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. branches of the former artery ; and many of the smaller branches dip into the substance of the brain, and supply its cortical and medullary part.' The Arteri^ Medije Cerebri, or arteriae mediae fossae Sylvii, are. larger than the arteriae anteriores. These arteries are lodged in the fossae Sylvii, extend obliquely outwards, and their innu- merable branches supply the middle and posterior lobes of the brain, and anastomose with the branches of the anterior arteries, and also with those of the vertebral arteries. A few of the smaller branches of these arteries perforate the substance of the brain, supply the anterior cornua of the lateral ventricles, and also concur in forming the choroid plexuses. .The brain also receives blood by the medium of the vertebral arteries, branches of the subclavian artery. The vertebral arteries^ after having entered the head, detach large branches, which joins- with similar branches of the anterior artery of the brain, and form an arterial circle aroimd the sella turcica, which has been named the Arterial Circle of Willis.273 OF THE VEINS OF THE HEAD. Sect. VL OF THE VEINS WHICH CORRESPOND WITH THE BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The smaller veins of the head follow a similar course with the branches of th*e external, carotid arteries. ’ The trunk of the facial vein, is formed by a number of small veins, which are distributed upon the side of the face, and by the frontal vein. The branches of the temporal, frontal and occi- pital veins unite; and the trunk thus formed, de- scends within the parotid gland, and is inserted into the facial vein at the lower part of the un- dcr-jaw, and opens into the external jugular vein, which also receives the branches of the. internal maxillary, lingual and occipital veins. The trunk of the external jugular vein lies be- neath the platysma myoides muscle, passes down the neck, and terminates in the subclavian vein. There is much variety as to the course of the jugular vein in different individuals. There is another vein, called the anterior ex- ternal jugular, situated on, the fore-part of the neck, which receives branches from the neigh- VOL. III. SOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 1274 bouring parts, and usually terminates in the sub- clavian vein. Sect. VII. OF THE VEINS WHICH CORRESPOND WITH THE BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL CAROTID AND VERTEBRAL ARTERIES. « The larger veins of the brain do not follow a similar course with the arteries, but pass between the convolutions of that organ, and terminate in the venous sinuses, with their orifices directed obliquely forwards, lest the blood .should flow - . backwards from the venous sinuses, into the small- er veins of the brain. The principal venous sinus has been named the superior longitudinaly the situation of which has been above described. It divides opposite to the middle of the occipital bone into the lateral sinu- ses. The blood from the lateral ventricles, cho-. roid plexuses, corpora striata and septum lucidum, flows into the iorculor IJerophili, and from it into the beginning of the lateral sinuses ; and from the lateral sinuses into the internal jugular veins. The veins of the dura mater accompany the arteries of that membrane, and terminate in the external or internal jugular vein; and a few of the veins open into Uie sinuses of the brain.OF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. 275 I The blood from the eye-ball returns to the heart partly by the medium of the facial vein, which communicates with the veins at the inner corner of the eye, and partly by the ocular veins. The principal ocular vein is formed by the cen- tral vein of the retina; by the ciliary, lacrymal, and ethmoidal veins, which correspond with the arteries distributed on the muscles of the eyes. The veins which correspond with the ciliary arteries describe nearly semicircles; meet in a centre, and form a trunk, which perforates the sclerotic coat, and the several trunks of the veins formed in the above manner open into the ocular vein. The ocular veins which anastomose with the facial veins at the inner angles of the orbits, lead into the circular sinuses of Ridley, placed around the glandula pituiraria, from which the blood flow's into the cavernous sinuses; and by the me- dium of the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses, the former of W'hich, is situated upon the ridges, and the latter, at the basis of the partes petrosae, reaches the extremities of the lateral sinuses and internal jugular veins. The anterior superior, and anterior inferior oc- cipital sinuses, placed upon the cuneiform process of the occipital bone, communicate wdth the in- ferior petrosal and lateral sinuses, and wdth the vertebral veins, S 2276 .OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. Besides the above sinuses, there is frequently found a perpendicular occipital sinus, situated in the falx cerebelli, which is sometimes double. The lateral sinuses pass out from the skull at the foramina lacera posteriora in busi cranii, and join with the internal jugular veins, and are in- closed in the same cellular sheath as the carotid arteries. The internal jugular veins receive the internal maxillary veins, the occipital, lingual, pharyngeal, superior and inferior laryngeal veins ; and a few branches from the muscles of the neck, and at last terminate in the subclavi’an veins. Sect. Vllf. OF VARIETIES AS TO THE ORIGIN AND COURSE OF THE ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. There are generally three large arteries, which take their rise from the arch of the aorta; the Arteria Innominata, common to the right Carotid and Subclavian arteries ; the Left Carotid, andLcit Subclavian, which come off by separate trunks. In a very few cases, four arterial trunks take their rise from the arch of the aorta; and in some cases only two. There is also considerable difference as to the length of the arteria innominata ; in general, whenARTERIES Of THE HEAD AND NECK.. 277 it has reached to the top of the breast, it divides in- to two great branches, the Right Carotid and Right Subclavian arteries ; but in some cases the arteria innominata is much longer, and runs along the front of the windpipe. In the annexed Plate xliii., a singular distribu- tion of blood-vessels is represented ; the carotids came off by separate trunks from the aorta, as also the right and left subclavian arteries; and the subclavian of the right side passed behind the trachea. In a few cases, both carotid arteries take their rise from the arteria innominata, and the left ca- ’rotid crosses the windpipe considerably above the -Sternum. The common carotid artery sometimes divides opposite to the fourth or fifth cervical vertebra, into the external and internal carotids ; and in some cases, (as in a, specimen I saw in the Mu- seum of Mr A. Burns qf Glasgow,) the com- mon carotid, instead of dividing into tw.o great branches, divides into a number of small branches. Mr Burns shewed me another preparation, in which the carotid artery, opposite to the styloid pro- cess, divided into two large arteries; the internal ca- rotid, and a trunk which is common to the temporal and maxillary arteries ; and there were several , branches sent off instead of the external caro^ tid.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. Q78 There is great variety as to the place of the ori- gin of the superior thyroid artery; it commonly is derived from the external carotid, but in many cases from the common carotid. There are innumerable varieties as to the ori- gin and course of the smaller branches of the ca- rotid arteries. Ed'planation of Plate xliii. The figure in this Plate represents a deviation from the usual distribution of the branches of the arteries, which lake their rise fiom the arch of the aorta. A The arcli of the aorta. B The right carotid artery. C The left carotid artery. D The right subclavian artery, which took its rise from the arch of the aorta, a little below the left subclavian, passed behind the other three large arteries, and also be- hind the trachea, marked by letter F. E The left subclavian artery. GG The vertebral arteries. lill The divided portions of the breast-boiie. E The larynx.lymphatics of the head and neck. 279 Sect. IX. OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The lymphatic vessels of the head are smaller than those of the extremities of the body ; and but few of them have been filled with mercury by the British anatomists. Mascagni, in his Plates 21<, and 26., has represented a number of lymphatic vessels upon the upper part of the head, the face', and also on the back part of the head. There are several lymphatic vessels which fol- low the course of the temporal artery, and which pass through small glands connected with the pa- rotid gland. Some lymphatic vessels also accompany the occipital arteries, which enter a few small glands situated behind the root of the ear and the mastoid process of the temporal bones ; and ano- ther cUlster is placed at the nape of the neck. The lymphatic vessels of the face lie in con- tact with the facial artery and vein ; and those of the deeper parts accompany the internal maxillary artery, and pass through glands situated below the angle of the lower jaw. The lymphatic vessels of the eye-ball have not been demonstrated; but in diseases of the eye- S4> .280 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. ball, one or two small lymphatic glands have been observed at the side of the optic nerve. The lym- })hatics of the tongue pass into glands placed be- hind the angle of the jaw. The lymphatic vessels of the brain have been represented by Mascagni ; but they have not been seen by any other anatomist *. The superficial and deeper-seated lymphatic ves- sels of the head pass downwards to the glands M'hich are placed in the vicinity of the internal jugular and carotid arteries. These glands are large and numerous, and col- lected into clusters; and have been named the Glavdula; concatenafee colli. The lymphatic ves- sels 'from these are joined by several lymphatic vessels from the deeper parts of the thorax, and unite into a lymphatic trunk, which on the left side of the body^enters the thoracic duct near to its termination ; and on the right side, goes into a small short trunk, called the Duct of Steno. A few'of the lymphatic vessels sometimes open into the internal jugular vein, or into the subcla- vian veins, near to the junction of the internal ju- gular and subclavian veins f. * The lymphatic vessels of the brain and organs of the senses of the skull, were discovered by my Father, and are represented in his book on Fishes, I + Vid. Ol^servations on the Absorbent or Lymphatic Vessels pf the Encephalon of the Infundibulum and Glandula Pituitaiia, in my Father’s book on the Nervous System, p. 17. j in his book on Fishes; and in his Treatise on the Brain..281 NERVES 01* THE HEAD AND NECK. Sect. X. OF THE NERVES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. In describing the external organs of the senses, the following nerves have been described: The first, or Olfactory Nert'cs ; the second pair, or Optic Nerves ; the third pair, or Oculorum Mo- tores ; fourth pair of Nerves : the frst Branch f the ffth pair ; the sixth pair of Nerves; the Portie Mollis of the. seventh pai' ; the L ngual Branch of the eighth pair ; and the ninth pair of N^erves. % Of the Second Branch of the Fifth Pair. The ffth pair of nerves divides into the fol lowing branches; The Orbitar, the • Superior and Inferior Maxillary branches. The first branch of the fifth pair has been al- ready described. The second part of the fifth pair, which is ra- ther larger than the first, passes through the fo- ramen rotundum of the sphenoid bone. 'From this the following nerves are derived ; 1st, The lateral nasal branch, which passes through the spheno-palatine hole, and is distri- buted upon the. under and back part of the sep-282 OUTLINES OF ANATOM-ir. turn narium, upon the eustachian tube, membrane of the sphenoidal sinus, and the membrane of the mouth : a branch of this nerve is reflected th rough the pterygoid hole of the sphenoid bone, and joins the sympathetic nerve in the carotid ca- nal ; and a branch of this nerve enters the fora- men innominatum of the pars petrosa, and joins with the lingual branch of the seventh pair. ■ 2d, The palaio-maxillary branch, which passes through the foramen palatinum posterius, sup- plies the roof of the mouth, teeth, and back part of the superior maxillary bone. 3d, A branch, called injra-orbitar, which pas- ses through the infra-orbitar canal; and during its passage, gives off several small branehes, which are distributed upon the antrum maxillare, and the teeth. This nerve, upon its exit from its bony canal, divides into a great number of small branches, which are distributed upon the cheek, under eye- lid, upper side of the nose, and it joins with thc-portio dura of the seventh pair. Of the Third Branch of the Fifth Pair of Nerves. The third branch oi the fifth pair ox the inferior fnai'iUary nerve passes through the oval-shaped hole of the sphenoid bone ; sends off branches to the pterygoid and masseter muscles ; and branches which accompany the superficial temporal artery, a branch to the point of the tongue, which alsoPORTIO DURA OF THE SEVENTH PAIR. 283 supplies the inferior maxillary gland, the sublin- gual gland, and muscles of the tongue. The main trunk of the nerve passes between the pterygoid muscles, and afterwards reaches the hole between the coronoid and condyloid proces- ses of the under-jaw •, and from this nerve, while in the inferior maxillary canal, a number of small nerves are derived, which enter the teeth of the under-jaw. The continuation of this nerve passes outwards through the anterior mental hole, and is distributed upon the muscles of the fore-part of the chin. Of ihe Portio Dura of the Seventh Pair. The Portio Dura of the seventh Pair of Nerves, takes its origin from the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata. It is disunited from the portio mollis at the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus, and enters the aqueduct of Fallopius, where it receives a retrograde branch of the fifth pair, which has passed through the foramen innominatum, on the anterior plane of the pars petrosa. Before leaving this aqueduct, it gives off the chorda tympani, which passes between the long process of the mal- leus and incus, and along the membrane of the drum, and afterwards in a fissure at the outside of the eustachian tube. This nerve also forms ajunc-. tion with the lingual branch of the fifth pair ; and from it, branches are derived, which supply the muscles of the malleus.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 284 Theportio dura then leaves the aqueduct, passes through the foramen stylo-mastoideum, irom which ^ a number of small nerves issue out, which supply the parotid gland, the muscles of the eye-lids, face, and neck, and which join with those of the supe- rior maxillary nerve upon the face Oj the Eighth Pair of Nerves. The.Eighth Pair of Nerves takes its rise by se- veral roots from the bases of the corpora olivaria, and consists of two parts, the par vagum ■a.nd glosso- pharyngcus ; the latter has been already described. The Par vagum, descends in the same cellular sheath with the jugular vein, and common caro- tid. From the par vagum, the following branches are derived : « 1. The Pharyngeal Branch, the branches of ■ which, supply the posterior part of the constrictor muscles of the pharynx, and other branches join * Vid. Monro’s Nervous System, p. 43. " The'most remarkable connection of this kind is in tli6 human face, whoie the portio dura of the auditory nerve is joined to the second and third branches of the fifth pair of nerves. Many of these nerves joined, are so small, that it is difficult to trace the fibrils of which they consist; but, in the larger branches, both in man ‘ and in the ox, I have certainly found, that the smaller branches which come off beyond the union of two larger nerves, consist ef fibres from both.”OF THE EIGHTH PAIR OF NERSVE. 285 with the laryhgeal nerve, and with the accessory nerve and sympathetic. 2. The Superior Laryngeal Branch, which divides into an external and internal branch ; the former of which, joins with the intercostal nerve. The interior branch creeps along the margin of the thyroid cartilage, and its branches are distri- buted upon the epiglottis, the membrane of the pharynx, the arytenoid muscles and arytenoid gland. The exterior branch anastomoses with a ganglion of the sympathetic; and from this junc- tion of nerves, small branches are sent, which sup- ply the constrictor muscles. The eighth pair also sends branches which unite with the Sympathetic Nerve in the upper part of the chest, from which small nerves are sent to the heart. There is a large branch of the eighth pair, which takes a retrograde course ; on the right side it passes behind the subclavian artery, and on the left be- hind the trunk of the aorta ; called the recurrent. The recurrent branch of the eighth pair is join-r ed with several branches from the ganglia of the sympathetic nerve. The recurrent branches of the eighth pair ascend, and send branches to the trachea, to the oesopha- gus, and to the thyroid gland. 1 he continuation of the recurrent nerve unites with the superior laryngeal nerve ; and after the union of these nerves, there are many branches sentOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 286 to the arytenoid muscles, and to the internal mem- brane of the larynx. Of the Ninth Fair of Nerves. The Ninth Pair of Nerves has been already described, with the exception of the branch of this nerve, called the descendens noni, which is de- rived from the branch of that nerve situated between the internal jugular vein, and internal carotid artery, and which then crosses over the carotid arteries. This branch passes down along the common carotid artery, gives branches to the omo-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and afterwards joins the second and third cervical ganglion. Of the Sympathetic Nerve. The Sympathetic Nerve forms a plexus with the fifth and sixth pairs of nerves, upon the surface of the internal carotid artery, while it is placed in the carotic canal. The sympathetic is distinguished from the other nerves of the neck by its ganglia *. The eighth and ninth pairs of nerves pass into the uppermost cervical ganglion, situated opposite to the second vertebra of the neck. The sympathetic nerve descends behind the eighth pair of nerves, and forms a second ganglion, * Vid. Tab. xi. of my Father’s Obs. on the Nervous S}'s- tcm.OF THE ACCESSORY NERVE. 287 and a third ganglion opposite to the head of the first rib. There are branches derived from the upper ganglion, which join with the sub-occipital nerve, and others, which, with small nerves derived from the glosso-pharyngeus nerve, form a plexus which covers the external carotid artery. A few nerves connect the uppermost ganglion of the sympa- thetic nerve with the first and second cervical nerves. From the ganglia of the sympathetic nerve, small nerves are derived, wfiich creep along the trunks of the subclavian artery and aorta, to the heart. Of the Accessoi'y Nerve. The accessory nerves arise from the sides of the medulla oblongata, and spinal marrow, and pass out at the foramen lacerum in basi cranii, along with the par vagum of the eighth pair. This nerve is connected by filaments to the posterior bundle of some of the spinal nerves, j The accessory nerves are then detadied from the eighth pair, and perforate the sterno-mastoid muscles, and terminate on the trapexius muscle. There is a branch of this nerve which is sent off before it perforates the stemo-mastoid muscle, which assists in forming the phsryngeal nerve,'OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. S88 Sect. XI. OF THE SPINAL MARROW The spinal marrow is contained within the spine/ and, like the brain, is covered by the dura mater, the. arachnoid coat, and pia mater; and from its sides, nerves in pairs are derived, which pass un- der each of the true vertebrae, and under the five pieces of which the os sacrum originally con- sists. ' The arachnoid coat is closely connected with the pia mater by cellular substance ; and its outer part is connected with the dura mater between each pair of its nerves by sharp-pointed mem- branes, resembling the teeth of a saw, M'hich are said to form a ligamentum denticulatum. The spinal marrow is flattened before and be- hind with transverse folds on it, and is composed of two chords, each of which is subdivided, and consists, like the brain, of cineritious as well as of medullary matter, but the former is internal; and hence, upon dividing transversely the spinal mar- row, its internal cineritious substance has a cruci- form appearance.289 OF THE SPINAL MARROW. Every nerve derived from the spinal marrow consists of an Anterior and Posterior bundle of nervous fibres^ each of which has its proper hole in the spinal marrow ; on the outer side of which they are involved in a common sheath ; and when this has been dissected with care, a ganglion is discovered in the posterior bundle. The spinal marrow terminates in a conical point, about the lower part of the second lumbar verte- bra. The nerves connected with the spinal marrow become longer as we follow them within the dura mater, from the head downwards to the lower end of the spinal marrow. The nervous filaments, un- der the termination of the spinal marrow as a sin- gle chord, or lower than the second lumbar vete- bra, on account of their length, are disposed in a parallel manner in respect to each other, and some- what like the. hairs in a horse’s tail; hence that portion of the spinal marrow has been called cau- da equina. The posterior branches of the spinal marrow in the neck, are connected to each other by smal- ler nerves. On the outside of the dura mater, the spinal nerves are connected on their fore-part to a nerve called the great sympathetic net've, and joined to each other by large arches, from which the mus'- cles of the head, trunk and extremities, 'are suc- cessively supplied. VOL. iir. TOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 2£)0 Bloodvessels of the Spinal Marrow. 0 The bloodvessels of the spinal marrow are de- rived from the vertebral, intercostal and lumbar arteries. The anterior spinal arteries take their rise from the vertebral arteries, descend along the whole of the anterior surface of the spinal marrow, and in the neck anastomose with the thyroid and cervi- cal arteries, in the back with the intercostal and lumbar arteries. The posterior and smaller arteries of the spinal marrow, are derived from the inferior cer- vical arteries of the cerebellum, or from the. trunks of the vertebral arteries within the skull. These arteries of the spinal marrow are subdi- vided into very small branches, which are distri- buted'^hpon the medulla and its membranes *. * Vid. A more full descriptioa of the spinal marrow in my Father's Treatise on the Nervous System, p. 28, 39, &c. Vid. also Tab. x. affixed to the Nervous System.OF TH£ SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY, &-C. 291 Sect. XII. VEINS OF THE SPINAL ^ARROW. The Veins of the Spinal Marrow accompany the arteries, and end in the venous sinuses of the spine, which extend from the foramen magnum of the os occipitis to the under end of the os sacrum, and hre lodged in the ligamentous mem; brane, which'lines the vertebral canal. CHAPTER II. 'OF THE BLOODVESSELS, NERVES, AND LYM- PHATIC VESSELS OF THE SUPERIOR EX- TREMITY; Sect; I; Of* THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY AND ITS BRANCHES. The right subclavian artery takes its rise in com- mon with the right carotid : the common trunk, T 2OUTLINES or ANATOMY, 292 named arteria innominatay which is about two inches long, ascends and crosses over the fore-part of the right side of the trachea ; after which, it divides into the subclavian and carotid arteries. The left subclavian is derived immediately from the arch of the aorta ; it ascends, and then pas- ses outwards at the under part of the neck, be- hind the sternal extremity of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The branches of this artery, 'txz, firsty The In- ternal Mammary, which passes behind the arti- culation of the clavicle with the breast-bone ; and opposite to the inferior laryngeal artery, descends between the pleura and cartilages of the true ribs, and betweeu'the sterno-costalis and intercos- tal muscles. The branches of the internal mammary artery, are, 1. Small branches to the thymus gland. . 2. A branch which follows the same course as the phrenic nerve, and which terminates upon the diaphragm. 3. Small branches to the mediastinum and peri- cardium. 4. Branches to the intercostal muscles, and the integuments of the breast. A branch, called musculo-phreniCy which, at the under part, is proper to the diaphragm. The internal mammary artery, then emerges from the thorax, under the cartilage of the seventhBRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. S93 T 3 rib, and, upon the back-part of the rectus muscle of the abdomen, anastomoses with the epigastric arteries. The Inferior Thyroid, or Laryngeal Artery, arises very near to the vertebral and internal mam- mary arteries. This artery gives branches to the trachea ; to the thyroid gland ; to the larynx, pharynx and oe- sophagus, and it anastomoses with the superior la- ryngeal artery. The subclavian artery bends outwards, and passes between the anterior and middle ..scaleni muscles, and then sends off the following branches. The Cervicalis Anterior, which is cover- ed by the sterno-mastoid muscle, passes upwards, . and suddenly divides into branches, which supply the muscles of the trunk of the body which are fixed into the occiput. The other and deeper branches of this artery anastomose with the -occipital and vertebral ar- teries. The Cervicalis Posterior, which takes its rise in common with the anterior cervical and infe- rior thyroid arteries; ascends on the posterior part of the neck; anastomoses with the occipital and vertebral arteries, and sends branches to the scaleni muscles, to the spinales colli, splenius, and trachelo-mastoidei muscles. The next artery which is derived from the sub- clavian, has been named the Dorsalis Scapulae294 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. superior: it passes transversely behind the origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and then through the notch in the superior costa of the scapula, and di- vides into many branches, which are distribu- ted upon the dorsum of the scapula^ and also gives branches to the shoulder-joint. The Superior Intercostal Artery, is also a branch of the subclavian ; it descends over the headsof the first and second ribs, and gives branches to the gullet, and spinal marrow. Branches of this artery are distributed upon the first and second in- tercostal spaces, and anastomose with the inferior intercostal arteries. The subclavian arteries pass behind the cla- vicles, and over the first ribs, into the axillae, are surrounded by the axillary plexuses of nerves, lymphatic glands, and fat, and called Axillary- Arteries. The first branches of these, have been called 0 the External Thoracic, or Mammary arte- ries. The first from these, called ihoracicn superior, longa, and htimeralis, supplies the serratus, intercos- tal, and pectoral muscles; the second goes to the ax- illary glands, to the mammae, and the pectoral mus- cles ; and the third supplies the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, and anastomoses with the scapulary arteries, and supplies the deltoid, greater pectoral, and subclavian muscles. A few of the smaller branches of this artery extend to the lowestBRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 295 part of the scapula, and supply the latissimus dorsi, and subscapulary'muscles, with blood. The axillary artery passes along the origin of the subscapulary muscle, and gives off a large branch, named Infrascapularis ; which divides into two great branches, the scapularis interna, and arteria dorsalis, scapula ii^erior. The Scapularis Interna, passes downwards to the under part of the scapula, giving branches to the teres major and subscapularis muscles; and some of its branches anastomose freely with the arteria dorsalis scapulae superior. The Dorsalis Scapula Inferior, winds round the neck of the scapula to the back-part of that bone, is covered by the infraspinatus muscle, and inosculates, upon the fossa infra spinata, with the branches of the superior scapulary artery. The next considerable branch, has been named the Articularis posterior., which takes its rise between the subscapularis and teres major muscles, and then passes around the posterior part of the os humeri, between that bone and the long head of the triceps, and the deltoid muscles. From this trunk, several small branches of arteries take their rise, which are distributed upon the capsu- lar ligament, the biceps, coraco-brachialis, and sub- scapulary muscles. The CiRCUMFLEXA Anterior, is also a large branch of the axillary artery. It passes transversely between the coraco-brachialis muscle and biceps, • T42S6 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. % around the fore-part of the neck of the os humeri, and distributes its branches to the biceps, coraco- brachiulis and deltoid muscles, to the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, and to the perios- teum of the bone. The axillary artery leaves the axilla, advances towards the front of the arm, and pursues its course, covered by the tendinous aponeurosis of the arm, along the inner side of the biceps, and over the brachialis muscle; and is then named hu- meral artery. The smaller branches sent from this artery go to the biceps, coraco-brachialis and brachialis in- ternus muscles. A branch, named the Profunda Humeri, takes its rise near to the insertion of the teres major muscle into the humerus \ it follows a spiral di- rection^around the os humeri, between the long and short head of the triceps muscle ; then comes out at the back of the arm, and divides into two branches, which communicate with reflected branches of the radial, ulnar and interosseous arteries. The smaller branches of this artery pass up- wards, and anastomose with the other branches of the scapulary and humeral arteries. There are secerol smaller arteries sent off from this artery to the neighbouring muscles in its course along the os humeri. I'he next considerable branch has been called Profunda Inferior or Minor.BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 297 This artery takes its rise from the outer side of the trunk near to the middle of the arm, and passes downwards to the external condyle of the humerus, supplying the neighbouring parts with blood. The branch which supplies the os humeri, cal- led nutrient, is sent off about the middle of the humerus. The humeral artery then passes towards the middle of the elbow-joint; and, about an inch below the joint, divides into its two great branches, the radial and ulnar arteries *. The Ulnar Artery passes behind the pronator teres, the flexor muscles of the hand, and then be- tween the flexor sublimis and profundus digito- rum. It sends upwards a considerable branch, call- ed recurrens ulnaris, w’hich is placed under the flexor muscles, and supplies the anterior and in- ner side of the elbow-joint, and anastomoses above the internal condyle with the smaller branches of the arteria profunda humeri. The artery then passes along the ulna, giving off several small branches to the fore-arm. The next branch has been called the interossea posterior, as it perforates the upper part of the in- terosseous ligament. From this artery, there is * The palm of tlie hand is supposed, in the following de- scription of the arteries, to be in front.298 OUTLINIS OP ANATOMY. also a recurrent branch, which anastomoses with the branches of the humeral artery. The posterior interosseous artery is continued downwards to the back- part of the fore-arm, and its smaller branches supply the extensor muscles of the fingers. The interossea anterior is sent off below the posterior, and is considerably larger than it. This artery passes downwards along the fore- part of the interosseous ligament, and supplies the flexor digitorum profundus with blood. A little above the wrist, this artery perforates the interosseous ligament, and divides into branch- es, which anastomose with the smaller ramifica- tions of the posterior interosseous artery. The ulnar artery then sends off many small branches, which supply the wrist; and passing over the annular ligament, forms the superficial palmar arch, from which the following branches are sent off: three digital branches which run in the interstices of the metacarpal bones to the roots of the fingers, each is subdivided into two branches; one of these runs along the radial margin, and the other along the ulnar margin of the finger : all the fingers are therefore supplied from this source, ex- cepting the outer margin of the little finger, and the outer margin of the fore-finger. Towards the points of the fingers, the arteries of opposite sides freely communicate with each other, and form an intricate plexus of vessels.BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 9.99 The ulnar artery also sends a branch, named ulnaris profunda, which anastomoses with the deeper-seated arterial arch, formed by the radial artery. From the superficial arch, an artery is. also sent to the thumb. At the roots of the fingers, there is generally a communication between the superficial and deep- seated arterial arches. The Radial Artery passes over the pronator teres, and then along the fore-part of the radius between the supinator radii longus, and flexor car-r pi radialis. This artery, in its course downwards, becomes more superficial, and at the wrist lies close on the radius. It sends off a recurrent branch, which passes between the tendon of the biceps, and supinator radii longus, and anastomoses at the outer part of the elbow-joint with the profunda humeri. There are many mall branches sent from this artery in its course downwards along the radius, to supply the neighbouring muscles. From the branch of the radial, called super- ficialis vola, another proceeds along the outer side of the thumb, which passes over the abductor pollicis, and anastomoses with the ulnar arch. The size of this branch is various in different in- dividuals. There are also s?nall branches of the radial ar- tery distributed upon the ligaments and bones of300 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. the wrist, and to the back-part of the metacarpus and fingers. At the carpal end of the radius, the radial artery turns back on the fore-part of the tendons of the extensor muscles of the thumb, and afterwards pas- ses through the abductor indicis; after which it divides into the following branches : the arieria magna poliicisy which passes along the side of the thumb next the fingers ; the radialis indicis, which passes along the side of the fore-finger next the thumb ; the palmaris profunda, which, passing a- cross the hand between the roots of the metacarpal bones and flexors of the fingers, assists in forming the deep-seated arterial arch of the palm of the hand *. Sect. II. OF VARIETIES AS TO THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. The varieties which occur as to the distribution of the subclavian artery, and as to the origin of its several branches, in an especial manner merit attention. In some cases, as in that represented by PI. xliii., four large arteries take their origin from the arch of the aorta. * Scarpa’s 5th and 6th Plates affixed to his book, Sull Aneurisma, give very correct views of the anastomoses of the arteries of the neck, and of the shoulder and elbow-joints.DISTRIBUTION OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 30i There is much variety as to the size and course of the inferior thyroid artery. I have seen in Dr Ramsay’s Museum, a speci- men, in which this artery ascended in front of the windpipe. The vertebral artery in some cases takes its rise from the arch of the aorta ; and in some very rare instances, enters the hole in the transverse processes of the third cervical vertebra, instead of that of the sixth or seventh cervical ver- tebra. The thoracic arteries are very seldom derived from the same part of the axillary artery in diffe- rent persons. The subscapulary artery sometimes arises from the thyroid artery, and it varies also much in size. In those cases, where the transverse artery of the neck is of unusual size, this artery is generally smaller than usual. There are many irregularities observed as to the distribution of the humeral artery and its branches; and it may not be improper to add, that I have seen many examples of such unu- sual distribution of arteries in both arms of the same subject. In some instances, the humeral artery divides, in the axilla, into the radial and ulnar arteries ; in other cases, in the middle of the os humeri ; and the radial artery more frequently is sent off higher than the ulnar.302 OUTLINES or ANATOMY. In some very rare cases, the ulnar artery runs immediately beneath the skin, and above the ten- dinous aponeurosis of the arm. My late pupil, Dr Ryan, who devoted great attention to the dis- tribution of the arteries, and who was very expert in tracing their branches, has published the fol- lowing accurate account of the irregularities of the Humeral Artery, which he saw in prepara- tions in my possession : “ Nuper in quinquc ex- emplis quae in musaeo Doctoris Monro aspexi, (aliisque multis antea,) vidi radialem in axilla emissam. Post talem originem ejus distributio maxime incerta est; tamen in paucis exemplis ejus cursus descriptionem tradere conabor. In uno casu arteria iter fecit ac eadem brachialis vagina inclusa ad mediam brachii partem, dein hanc ar- teriam trajecit, ut musculum bicipitem subiret, et cursum continuavit prope ejus marginem exteri- orem ad cubiti flexuram, unde more solito proces- sit. In alio ex ejus origine in axilla provenit, et ante brachialem ivit sub fascia quam proxime sita ad cubicum, ubi ramo transverse communica- tionem satis raagnam cum ulnari formavit. Ex hac communicatione vera exiit ramus longus sub fascia ad manus palmam, ubi arcum palmarem in- travit. Post emissionem hujus rami tadialis cur- sum solitUm secuta est. Forsan aliquid prosit no- tare, quod, quamvis arteria humeralis modo solito se dividat, arteria fere eMem ac radialis magni- tudine ex ea interdum provenit in axilla, ad mar- ginem bicipitis iter facit, et ramo transverse cumnlStRIBUTlON OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERV. 303 radiali communicat. Fosminam vidi in qua haec arteria fasciam pertransiit, media in parte inter cubitum et carpum supra radium inclinavit ad ejus dorsum, et sic ad divisionem inter intttcatorem et pollicem progressa est, et nullo in loco solita pul- satio percipi potuit. Observare liceat radialem ex humeral! provenire in variis locis axillam inter et cubiti flexuram. Notandum quoque est, ra- dialem, ulnarem, et interosseam, saepe ex hume- rali emitti in parte brachii superiori In a few cases, the humeral artery divides into two branches, and these are again united into one trunk -f. In a few cases, there is an additional artery which follows the same course as the humeral ar- tery, and which is united with the radial branch of the humeral artery, which latter is sent off at the Usual place. There are varieties without number as to ihe origin, size, and disposition of the smaller branches of the humeral artery. The profunda ihumerf sometimes is equal in size -to the radial artery. • Vid- Dissert. Inaug. de Quafundam Arteriarum in Corpora Humano Distributione. Edin. 1810. f Vid. Plate xliv. fig. 3. J Vid. Plate xliv. fig. 1. & «,OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 504 • The interosseous artery sometimes arises from the middle of the humeral artery. The knowledge of these variations in the dis- tribution of the bloodvessels of the arm is of the utmost importance to the Surgeon in various ope- rations. Explanation of Elate xliv. The three figures of this Plate, represent irregulari- ties as to the distribution of the branches of the Humeral artery, and the two first are half the size of nature. Fig. I. 1. Trunk of the humeral artery. 2. Branches of this artery distributed upon the pectoral muscle. 3. A descending branch. 4. Branches distributed upon the inferior scapulary muscles. 5. Small branches distributed upon the upper part of the biceps. 6. 7. Arteria dorsalis scaj)ulse inferior. 8. Continuation of the humeral artery, from which an additional branch runs down, as marked in No. 9, and joins the radial artery at No. 10. 11. ' The trunk of the humeral artery in its usual situa- tion. 12. Internal articular branches of the humeral. 13. The ulnar artery. 14. The ulnar artery at the wrist. 15. 16. The superficial palmar arch formed by the Ul- nar artery.explanation of plate XLIV. 805 17. A branch of the ulnar going to the thumb. 18. The origin of the radial artery. 19. The continuation of this artery a little above the wrist. 20. A branch of the radial artery going to the fii’^ joint of the thumb. 21. & 22. Branches of the radial artery going to the fore finger. • Fig. 2. • This figure, which is half the si^e of nature, also re- jlresents an unusual distribution of the branches of the Humeral Artery, and such as has not been described by any preceding iVuthor with whose works I am ac- ijuainted. 1. The trunk of the humeral artery, 2. A branch going to supply the teres major and mi- nor. 3. A supernumerary artery, wliich was superficial, and placed between the skin and the tendinous ^aponeurosis of tlie arm. 4. The continuation of that artery at tlie elbow- joint. 6. The artery continued over the wrist. 0. The junction of that artery with flie superficial arch in the*palm of the hand, formed by the ulnar artery. 7. Tlie trunk of tiTe humeral artery continued down the arm in its usual situation. 8* The spiral branches of the humeral artery. 9. The articular branches of the humeral anastotno- s>ing with the branches of the spiral. VOL. UOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 306 10. The humeral artery, before its division into ulnar, radial andnter osseous arteries. 11. Continuation of the trunk of the ulnar artery. 12. The ulnar artery near the wrist. 13. 14, & 15. are the branches of the artery forming the superficial palmar arch. 16. The trunk of theVadial artery. 17. Si 18. The continuation of the radial artery^ 19. Tlie interosseous artery. Fig. 3.* • 1. & 2. Represent the humeral artery, which in the middle ot' the humerus divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. 3, 4, 5. & 6. Represent the course of the radial ar- tery. • 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13. & 14. Point out the course of the ulnar artery. It was very remarkable, in the preparation, that, below the elbow, the radial and ulnar arteries were joined by a cross canal.VEIN^ ot THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES, ’ S07 • • Sect. III. « . ■ • t)F THE VEINS OF THE SUPERIOR EXfREMITIES. >v There ^re two sets of veins, proper to the su- perior extremities, a superficial and deeper-seated set; both of which communicate frequently with each other, and both are provided with valves. There is great variety as to the distribution of the veins in different individuals. The superficial veins of the back of the lumd go chiefly to the supcfficial, radial, and ulnar veins. The superficial radial veins on the anterior part of the fore-arm communicate with the radial ar;d ulnar veins, and with a trunk, called the media^a longa. The mediana longct. crosses over the radius, and' divides below thd elbow into the mediana cephalica and basilica ; the former terminates in the cepha- lic above the elbow, and the lattqr crosses over the humeral artery, and ends in the basilic vein, which , joins with the humeral vein. The cephalic vein runs up the arm on the outer side of the biceps musple ; and, passing between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles, termi- nates in the axillary vein. The deeper-seated veins, named Venje comi- TEs SATELLITES, follow the saiTic coursc as the ar-308 OUTLINES OF ANATOMf. cries; they join the more superficial, and form the Axillary Vein, which being joined with the thoracic veins, forms the Subclavian Vein : this passes between the clavicle and first rib ; receives the cervical veins, and those corresponding with the dorsal scapulary artery ; then spreads on the fore-part of the anterior scalenus muscle. The subclavian vein then joins with the verte- bral, internal jugular, and external jugular Veins, internal mammary veins, .and left intercostal veins. The subclavian vjein of the left side then crosses the three great arteries which arise from the arch of the aorta ; and, opposite to the cartilages of the first ribs, unites with the corresponding subclavian vein, which together form the Vena Cava Supe- ItlOR. The Vertebral Vein communicates with the inferior petrosal sinuses, or with* the occipital si- nuses, and with the veins of the deeper-seated mus- cles of the neck. Sect. IV. - ^ • OF the nerves of the neck and superior ex- TREMITY. The Sub-occipital Nerocs have been described by some authors, as the first cervical nerve. •309 nerves of the neck, &c. Tiie Sub-occipital Nerves take their rise from the beginning of the spinal marrow-by an ante- rior and postefior fasciculus. These nerves, after their exit from the spinal canal, are connected with the ninth pah’, and with the first cervical nerve ; and their branches are distributed upon the recti and oblique muscles of the head. The First Cervical Nerve passes out between the first and second vertebra«of the neck, and di- vides into two large branches. The one furnishes nerves to the extensor muscles of the head and neck, and then ascends upon the occiput, dividing into many branches, whjch are distributed upon the back-part of the head. The other bremch is \mited with the accessory nerve, the ninth pair of nerves, and uppermost ganglion of the sympa- thetic nerve, from \t?hich a nerve is sent'down- wards to the second cervical ganglion. The Second Cervical Nerve, after passing between the vertebras, is united to the middle gan- glion of the sympathetic nerve, and also to the third cervical nerve. • This pair of nerves also sends brtfnches to the sterno-mastoid muscle ; a branch, which passes downwards along the jugular vein ; a third branch, which assists^in forming the phrenic nerve •, a fourth branch, w'hich divides into many branches, viz. the inferior cutaneous nerve, •wdiich supplies the parts of the lower jaw ; tlie middle cutaneous nerve, U 3310 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. which supplies the parts around the angle of the jaw ; and a branch, which supplies the back-part of the ear, called posterior auricular, and which subdivides into branches, which are distributed on the back-prart of the ear and temple; the platys- ma muscle ; the parotid gland, and which commu- nicate with the portio dura of the seventh pair. The continuation of the second cervical nerve is spent upon the extensor muscles of the head ancl neck, and the letator scapulae. The Third Cervical Nerve joins with the middle ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, with the trunk of the fourth cervical nerve, and assists in forming the phrenic nerve. A branch of this nerve joins with the middl^ ganglion of the sympathetic* nerve. . This nerve afterwards divides into external and internal branches; the former supplies the upper part of the scapula, the latter supplies the mus- cles and skin at tbe upper part of the neck and shoulder. The Fourth Cervical sends branches to the middle ganglion of the sympathetic nerve *, to the deep muscles, of .the neck *, glands of the neck ; and it is connected to the phrenic nerve, and to the fifth cervical nerve. The Fifth Cervical Nerve is joined to the fourth and to the sixth cervical. The Sixth Cervical is considerably larger than the preceding, and joins the Seventh Cer- vical Nerves behind the clavicle.‘ NERVES OF THE NECK, &C. 311 The three inferior cervical and first dorsal nerves pass between the scalenus anticus and me- dius muscle, and under the subclavian muscle, to the axilla, where they form the axillary plexus of nerves. In the axillary plexus of nerves, there is a very intimate intermixture of nervous threads*, which surrounds the axillary artery and vein. The following nerves are derived from the ax- illary plexus, , 1st, A Number of Small Nerves to the sub- scapulary, teres,major, and latissimus dorsi mus- cles. 2d, The External Thoracic Nerves, which accompany the external thoracic arteries to the pectoral muscles, mammae, and skin over these. U4 # * Vkl. representations of the axillary nerves in my Father’s Book on the Nervous System. Tab. xv. & xvi. • “ Every nerve,” says my Father, of the spinal marrow is joined near to its exit by an arch, with the nerve above and be- low it; but the connection oP tlie several nerves of the arm, or of the leg, may be considered as chief examples of plexus.” “ M^y years ago, I was at the pains of tracing the fibres of the nerves of the arm, from their origin in the spinal mar- row to their termination in the parts of the arm, by slitting open the sheaths of all the trunks where they form the brachial plexus. I found, indeed, as I expected, that in tlie plexuses the "fibres of the different trunks were intermixed, and that every nerve under the plexus consisted of fibres of all .the nerv'es, which were tied together above its origin from the plexus,”OUTLINES OF ANATOMY* 312 3d, The Sc apulary Nerves, which pass to tho muscles situated on the dorsum scapulas through the superior scapulary notch, in the upper costa of the scapula. 4th, The Articular Nerves,.which sink deep in the axilla, pass along the under edge’of the subscapularis, and accompany the posterior cir- c'umllex artery around the os humeri. From this plexus, small nerves are distributed upon the ^eres major and the deltoid muscles, and also on the capsular ligament qf the shoulder- joint. • 5th, rte Radial or Median Nerve. This nerve is placed before the trunk of the humeral artery, to which it is intimately united by cellu- lar substance. At the elbow-joint, it passes over th*e ten- don of the brachialis internus; and having per- forated the* back-part of the pronator teres, de- scends between the flexor carpi radialis and flexor sublimis, to which muscle it sends off srpall branches. From the radial nerve, a large branch called interosseous, is derived, as it passes along the inter- osseous ligament. • The interosseous nerve, in its course to the wrist, supplies the flexor muscles of the thumb and fin- gers, and terminates on the pronator radii qua- dratus. The trunk of the radial nerve passes under the annular ligament of the wrist tp the palm of theNERVES OF THE ARM, &-C. 31S • hand, where it is covered by a thick tendinous apo- neurosis ; and in that situation, ‘divides into seven branches; two of* which lead to the thumb, one to the side of the fore-finger next the thumb. The other branches are derived from two trunks, and supply the opposite side of the fore-finger, both sides of the middle finger, and the side of the ring-finger next the middle finger. * There are several smaller n.erves also sent from the radial nerve, which are distributed upon the lumbjicalcs muscles; and there are others which accompany the branches which form the super- ficial palmar arch. The nerves of the opposite sides of the fingers are united at their points, and at length terminate by a great many small nerves. • 6th, Ulnar Nerve. This large nerve passes along the triceps muscle ; and. at the elbow, oc- cupies the groove between the inner condyle of the os humeri and olecranon ulnae. The nerve then passes through the heads of the flexor muscles, and follows the same course as the ulnar artery along the fore-arm. Near to the lower end of the ulna, there arc iXL'O or three, small branches sent off, which pass to the back of the hand, * between the ulna and the flexor carpi ulnaris; from* which there are various small nerves, which supply the wrist, and which jom with the branches of the spiral nerve. ,314 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. There is another comiderabk branch sent off from the nerve before if passes into the palm of the hand, which runs along the ulnar side of the little finger, and is subdivided into two branches ; one of which runs on the side of the little finger next the ring-finger, and the other on the side of the ting-finger next the little^finger. The trunk of the ulnar nerve passes over the annular ligament of the wrist along with the ul- nar artery ; and having reached the palm of the hand, is subdivided into superficial and deep,-sea led branches; the former of which is distributed up- on the muscles of the little finger, and the op* posite sides of the little finger. ^ The deeper-seated branches of the ulnar nerve in the palm of the hand, pass between the ab- ductor and flexor parvus minimi digiti, and then form an arch, which accompanies the branches of the radial artery ; and from this deep-seated^ arch, there are branches derived, which supply the abductor minimi digiti, the flexor brevis, ab- ductor pollicis, lumbricales, and interossei mus- cles. ' From the branches of the nerves which supply the fingers, there are many lateral branches, which are distributed upon the muscles of the fingers, and which at last terminate upon the points of the fingers, by a number of srnall fibrils. There are many anastomoses between the smal- o ler branches of the radial and ulnar nerves*.NERVES OF THE ARM. 8U ■ It may not be improper to add, that, under the axilla, the ulnar and spiral nerves are united by small branches, from which union, a small branch is sent, which' passes under the skin which covers the triceps muscle *. 7th, The Spiral Nerve, the largest nerve de- rived from the axillary plexus, is placed be- tween the ulnar nerve and axillary artery; it passes downwards obliquely between two of the heads of the triceps, and aftgrwards to the outer side of the arm. In its course along the posterior part of the oS humeri, there are several branches detached from it to the triceps muscle, and one accompanies the spiral artery, and is spent upon the extensor mus- cles of the fore-arm. , There is also a subcutaneous branch sent off behind the os humeri, which pa*sses down to the back-part of the fore-arm, ,'and back-part of the hand, and jpins with the branches of the ulnar nerve. • The trunk of the nerve at the elbow-joint, is imbedded in the groove between the extensores carpi radiales, and brachialis internus ; and when so situated, detaches several small branches to the extensor and flexor muscles. Opposite to the head of the radius, the trunk of the nerve is subdivided into two great branches^ * Vid. Camper’s Views of the Nerves of ijie Arfy,OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 516 one «f which, is deep-seated, the other more supv'^ JicioL The superficial branch descends along with the radial artery, and below the middle of the radius, is subdivided into tlie X'olar and dorsal branches. The former is distributed upon the annular ligament and muscles of the thumb ; the latter divides into a number of small branches, which are distributed upon the muscles in the vicinity of the metacarpal bones and fore-finger; and there‘are also branches oi this nerve which are proper to the fore and middle fingers, and to the side of the ring-finger next to the middle-finger. The deep-seated Ijo'anch supplies the extensores carpi radiales, perforates the supinator radii, and reaches the back-part of the fore-arm, and, descend- ing along the extensor primi internodii pollicis, arrives at the badk-part of the hand, and annular ligament of the wrist, and at length terminates on the back-part of the metacarpus, 8th, The Musculo-Cutaneus, or Perforans Casserii. The trunk of this nerve perforates the, upper-part of the coraco-brachialis muscle, and afterwards passing between the scapulo-radialis, and brachialis internus muscles, to both of which, it gives many small branches; gets to the outer side of the tendon of the scapulo-radialis muscle, and passes behind the median cephalic vein ; af- terwards it passes down the arm under the skin, and over the supinator Tadii longus, as far as theNiy<.VES OF THE ARM. 317 root of the thumb, and gives -also branches to the* back of the hand; 9th, The Nervus Cutanews so named, from its situation under the skin, passes down along the inner and fore part of the arm. In its course downwards, it supplies the biceps muscle and coraco-brachialis muscle : and at the elbow- joint, or a little higher, is divided into txvo branches^ which have been named, from their situation on the outer an^ inner sides of the arm, external and ■internal. The external passes behind ; and its branches pass before the median basilic vein, (Vid. Plate xlv.,) and afterwards suddenly divides into a num- ber of very small nerves, which are spent upon the elbow-joint and fore-arm. * The internal branch, which is rather smaller than the preceding, crosses over the basilic vein to the inner- side of the elbow, and terminates on the inner side of the fore-arm. Vid. Plate xlv, and xlvi. 10th, The CuTANEUs Internus of Wrisberg. The Cutaneus Internus of Wrisberg also takes its rise from the axillary plexus. This nerve, which is smaller than the former, divides^ into two branches ; the larger descends along the triceps, and disappears at the under part of that muscle ; the former tvinds round to the back-rpart of the arm, and i§ spent upon the triceps.313 DUfLlNES OF anatomy. The nerves,called the iNTERcosTO-HuMERALESy derived from the second and, third, intercostal nerves, are distributed upon the superior extre- mity, and chie;lly upon the axillary glands, and parts in their vicinity on the inner side of the arm. • • Explanation Plate xlv. a In this Plate, the usual distribution of the veins ^at the elbow-joint is represented, as also the neighbouring Subcutaneous nerves. A The biceps flejtor cubiti. B The tendon of the biceps muscle. C The internal condyle of the os humeri. F Th,e, dotted lines mark the course of the humeral artery. ‘ • H The cephalic vein. I The basilic vein. K The vena mediana longa, L, The mediana cephalica. M The mediana basilica. PP The external branches of the cutaneous nerv^. . TSU The internal branches of the cutaneous nerve. Explanation of Plate xlvi. * ; In this Plate, an unusual distribution of the veins at the elbow-joint, is represented. B The biceps flexor cubiti. C The internal condyle of the os humeri.LYMPHATICS OF SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 3^9 F & G Point oujt the humeral artery. H.The cephalic vein. K The vena mediana longa. II The ulnar veins. P A second mediana longa. X The mediana cephalica. M The mediana basilica. ^ 00 The external branches of the cutaneous nerve. N The internal branches of the cutaneous nerve, pass- ing behind. M The vena mediana basilica." * X The deep-seated humeral vein, 7, The radial nerve. Sect. V. ‘ .OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE SUPERIOR V EXTREMITIES. There are two sets of lymphatic vessels, which are proper to the superior extremities ; a super- Jicial and deeper-seated set. The superficial lymphatic vessels, are found on the fore and back parts of the fingers and hands. Those on the fore-part of th§ arm run upwards, directly on the fore-part of the arm ; those on the back-part of the forerarm, are directed obliquely upwards, and towards the inner-§ide of the elbow- joint. The lymphatic vessels continue their course up- W'ards, along with the basilic vein, ajid some of these pass into small glands in the vicinity of the320 • OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. humeral artery ; but the greater number of these vessels .do not enter into any gland until *they reach the glands of the axilla. There are also a few lymphatic vessels which accompany the cephalic vem, and passing be- ■ tween the‘pectoral and deltoid muscles, are con- nected with some lymphatic glands; which are found at the under-part of the clavicle.' • The deeper-seated lymphatic vessels, which ac- company the branches of the arteries, accompany the radial, ulnar, and humeral arteries, and at length join the axillary lymphatic glands. The greater number of the lymphatic vessels of the mammae and lateral part's of the chest, join with the axillary glands; and there are various branches wlijch pass over the clavicles,*and ter-, minate in lymphatic glands at the ,bottom of the neck. From the axillary glands, large lymphatic ves- sels pass beneath the subclavian muscle, and by their union form a trunk, which, on the left side of the bofly, leads. to the thoracic duct near to its termination in the angle formed by the internal- jugular and subclavian veins. On the right side of the body, the trunk form- ed by the lymphatic vessels of the superior extre- mity, joins w’ith*the large lymphatic trunk, called the Trunk of Steno,321 OF THE THORACIC AORTA. CHAPTER III. OF THE BLOODVESSELS, NERVES, AND LYM^ PHATIC VESSELS OF THE THORAX. Sect. L OF.THE THORACIC AORTA. rHE aorta descends on the left side of the verte- brae of the back; and from it, several branches are derived, before it reaches the abdomen, besides those which have been already described. The arteries called bronchial, as they are dis- tributed upon the bronchi or lungs, take their rise from the upper part of the descending aorta. The number and size of the bronchial arteries, are various in different subjects. These bronchial arteries have been divided in- to two classes, the Right and Left. The right bronchial arteries, are distributed up- on the right lungs, - the bronchial lymphatic VOL. III. XOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 322 glands, and the inner membranes of the larger branches of th^ windpipe. The left bronchial arteries^ which are unequal in size, take their rise from the fore-part of the aorta; they are subdivided into many s-mall branches, which are distributed through the sub- stance of the lungs, along the coats of the pul- monary arteries and veins, and anastomose with the smaller ramifications of the pulmonary arte- ry. The Arteritk OESOpHACEiF take their rise from the aorta, or from the bronchial arteries ; they are subdivided into very minute branches, which are spent upon the coats of the gullet, and form an intricate plexus upon the innermost coat of that organ. There are also branches of these arteries distri- buted upon the posterior mediastinum and peri- cardium. The Superior Intercostal Artery is also a branch of the thoracic aorta. There are three large branches of this artery, which are lodged . within the grooves of the ribs; and the smaller branches of these arteries pass backwards to the spine, spinal marrow, and muscles of the back. The Inferior, or Aortic Intercostal Ar- teries, which are eight or ten pairs, take their rise from the back and lateral parts of the aorta, and are situated in the grooves in the under edges of the ribs between the intercostal muscles.OF THE THORACIC AORTA. 323 The four uppermost are the smallest, and ascend. The intercostal arteries send small branches to the spine and spinal marrow, and intercostal mus- cles ; and many branches pass between the ribs, and after supplying the muscles of the chest, anas- tomose with the external mammary arteries. The Superior and Posterior Pericardiac Arteries, are also derived from the descending aorta, but sometimes from the subclavian and in- ternal mammary. These arteries are distributed upon the pericar- dium, lungs, and gullet. The superior branches of the inferior intercos- tals, anastomose with the superior intercostal ar- teries ; while the inferior branches of the inferior intercostal arteries, anastomose with the epigastric and lumbar arteries. Sect. II. - i There is much variety as to the origin of the bronchial and intercostal arteries, but which does not lead to any derangement in the functions of the organs upon which they are distributed, V o324. OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. Sect. III. OF THE VEINS WHICH CORRESPOND WITH THE BRANCHES OF THE AORTA AND SUBCLAVIAN AR- TERIES WHICH ARE PROPER TO THE THORAX. A The intercostal veins correspond in size and si- tuation with the intercostal arteries. The lower aortic left intercostal veins unite, and form the beginning of the Vena Azygos, which crosses the aorta, runs upwards along the spine, and receives during its ascent the intercos- /tal veins of the right side of the chest, as also the bronchial veins, and then joins the Vena Cava Superior. There is also a venous trunk on the left side of the body, called Left Vena Azygos, which is formed by the superior intercostal veins, and bronchial veins of the left side, and veins of the gullet. The left, or smaller vena azygos, terminates in the subclavian vein of the left side.0F THE NERVES OF THE THORAX. 325 Sect. IV. OF THE NERVES WHICH CORRESPOND WITH THE ABOVE BLOODVESSELS. The nerves which correspond with the blood- vessels described in the preceding section, are, the phrenic, or diaphragmatic nerves, the pars vaga of the eighth pair, the sympathetic, and the intercos- tal nerves. , Of the Phrenic Nerve. ’ The Phrenic Nerve, formed by the second, third, and fourth cervical nerves, descends along the fore- part of the scalenus anticus muscle, enters the • chest between the subclavian artery and vein, passes along the pericardium, and having reached the diaphragm, is subdivided into several small branches, which are distributed to different parts of the muscular substance of the diaphragm. Of the Par Vjgum of the Eighth Pair of Nerves. Upon the recurrent nerve being detached from the eighth pair of nerves, there is a plexus of nerves X3OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 526 formed by the small branches passing from the recurrent nerves of opposite sides, and by the branches of the sympathetic nerves, which go to the heart. This plexus covers the larger bran- ches of the pulmonary artery; and there are some small branches of nerves which creep along the smaller ramifications of the pulmonary ar- tery. This plexus, has been called the anterior pul- monary plexus of nerxies^ in contradistinction to the posterior pulmonary plexus^ formed by the eighth pair, and which are situated behind the root of the lungs. The pulmonary plexuses being detached, the eighth pair divides into chords, which surround the oesophagus, and which form what anatomists have described as the oesophagean plexuses. Of the Sympathetic Nerve. The branches from the sym.pathetic nerve, creep along the surface of the arteries and veins con- nected with the heart. Of the Cardiac Nerves of the Right Side. On the right side, there are two principal nerves, the great and smaller cardiac nerves. The trunk ofOF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 327 the former passes between the superior cava and ascending aorta, to the posterior part of the aorta, where the cardie nerves of the left side are added: thus, the plexus cardiacus magnus of Haller is formed. From this plexus, a branch is sent to the left coronary plexus, branches which creep along the right branch of the pulmonary artery to the heart, and a branch to the anterior coronary plexus. The lesser cardiac nerve^ passes along the ar- teria innominata and aorta, and ends in a plexus formed by the cardiac nerves on the left side of the aorta ascendens. I Of the Cardiac Nerves of the Left Side. The left cardiac nerves are superficial or deep- seated. The superficial passes behind the arch of the aorta, to the great cardiac plexus. The deeper-seated cardiac nerve, passes across the arch of the aorta; joins the cardiac nerves of the eighth pair, and forms the cardiac plexus ; and from this plexus, a nervous web extends on the left side of the ascending aorta, from which the right coronary plexus is derived, which passes between the pulmonary artery and aorta, and then along the coronary vessels. X4328 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. From the great cardiac plexus of the left side, a nervous plexus extends on the left coronary ar^ tery ; and from this, small nerves creep along the surface of the left coronary arteries, to the point of the heart *. The cardiac nerves being sent off, the sym- pathetic nerves unite into a trunk behind the subclavian artery, and descend along the heads, and over the heads of the ribs, and a ganglion is formed by their junction with the intercostal nerves f. From the sixth, seventh, and eighth dorsal ganglia, branches arise, which form the nerve calr led by Haller, nervus splanchnicusy which passes through the appendix of the diaphragm, and sup-^ plies the bowels of the abdomen, Of the Intercostal^ or Dorsal Nerves. These nerves, after being sent off from the spinal marrow, are lodged in the grooves in the lower edges of the ribs, and advance to the fore- part of the chest between the intercostal muscles. There are branches of these nerves which sup- ply the muscles in the vicinity of the spine, the intercostal muscles, and also those of the abdo- men. * Vid. Scarpa’s Third Plate of the Nerves of the Ncqk. t Vid, Monro’s Nervous System, Plate xr.329 OF THE THORACIC DUCT. The upper intercostal rierms, give off branches which supply the muscles on the upper and outer part of the chest, and also branches which pass along the branches of the internal mammary ar- tery to the mammae. ' The lower intercostal nerves, supply the muscles of the thorax and of the abdomen. ^ Sect. V. OF THE LYMPHATIC .VESSELS WHICH ARE PROPER TO THE HEART AND LUNGS. Of the Thoracic Duct. This duct is formed by the lymphatic vessels of the inferior extremities, and by the trunk form- ed by the lacteal vessels. These trunks unite, and form the receptacle of the chyle, an oval-shaped bag, which is placed up- on the second lumbar vertebra. The thoracic duct passes upwards, close to the spine at first behind the aorta ; it then perforates the diaphragm behind its right crus ; reaches the thorax, and is placed between the aorta and vena azygos ; and at last terminates at the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian veins of the left side of the body.580 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. The thoracic duct is of unequal diameter : the receptacle of the chyle, the origin of the duct, is about one-third of an inch in diameter ; it is much contracted about the middle of the chest, and then becomes gradually larger as it, ascends. There are many lymphatic vessels joined to the thoracic duct during its ascent along the spine, from the bowels of the abdomen, the intercostal spaces, and from the lungs. Of the Lymphatic Vessels of the Lungs. There are two sets of lymphatic vessels pro- per to the lungs, a superficial and deeper-seated set. The former describe areolae between the lo- bules of the lungs, and pass into the bronchial glands; where these are joined by the deeper- seated lymphatic vessels, which accompany the branches of the trachea and pulmonary artery. There are some of the absorbent vessels of the left lungs which pass through glands behind the arch of the aorta. The lymphatic vessels which have passed through the bronchial glands, form trunks which ascend on the fore-part of the vena cava superior, and terminate in Steno’s duct on the right side of the neck. >LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE HEART. 331 1 Of the Lymphatic Vessels of the Heart, The lymphatic vessels of the heart accompany the coronary arteries; those of the right side pass over the arch of the aorta, to a lymphatic gland situated behind the origin of the carotid arteries, and terminate on the right side. The lymphatic vessels which accompany the left coronary artery, pass into a gland situated be- hind the pulmonary artery, between the arch of the aorta, and root of the trachea. These termi- nate on the upper end of the thoracic duct *. * The lymphatic vessels of the heart, are much smaller thaa those of the lungs; they have been very beautifully represent- ed by Mascagni in his 26th Plate.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 332 V CHAPTER IV. OF THE BLOODVESSELS, NERVES, AND LYM- PHATIC VESSELS WITHIN THE CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. c % Sect. I. , OF THE BRANCHES OF THE AORTA SENT OFF WITH- IN THE ABDOMEN, OR OF THE ABDOMINAL AOR- TA. 33y Abdominal Aorta, is understood, that por- tion of the aorta, which intervenes between the^ diaphragm, and the division of the aorta, into its two great branches, called the iliaca communes. The aorta passes between the tendinous columns of the smaller muscle of the diaphragm, and hence the flow of blood through it cannot be affected by the movements of the diaphragm.ABDOMINAL AORTA. 533 ’ The Abdominal Aorta is situated on the left side of the bodies of the vertebrae ; and approaches gradually to the middle of the vertebrae. The First Branches of the Abdominal Aorta are distributed upon the diaphragm. These are two in number ; they cross over the crura of the dia- phragm ; are distributed on every *part of this muscle; and a few of the smaller branches sup- ply the renal capsule, fat of the kidney, and car- dia. The next branch is large, and short, called cor- //flc, which subdivides immediately into three branches \ the Superior gastric. Hepatic,, and Splenic arteries. The trunk of the coeliac is surrounded by the lesser curvature of the sto- mach. The Superior Gastric is the smallest of the branches; it ascends, is distributed chiefly on the right side of the cardia ; and its branches anasto- mose with the arteries of the gullet; it pas- ses upon the smaller curvature of the stomach ; and its branches are distributed in all directions, and anastomose freely with the ramifications of the hepatic and splenic arteries. The pext branch of the coeliac, is the Splenic, which runs transversely across the body behind, and then on the upper-part of the pancreas, to which it gives several branches, and divides into five or six branches in the notch of the spleen, which carry blood to every part of that organ.OUTLINES OP ANATOMY, 384 A large artery is derived from this trunk, called the Gastric A Inferior Sinistra, which passes along the greater curvature of the stomach, and communicates with the gastrica dextra. From this artery, the pancreas, omentum and mesocolon receive several small branches. There are four orjwe branches of the splenic artery, call- ed vasa hrevia, which are spent on the great left sac of the stomach, and anastomose with the branches of the left superior and left inferior gas- tric arteries. The Hepatic Branch, or Right Branch of the CoELiAC Artery, is concealed by the pan- creas ; it passes forwards and upwards behind the pylorus ; and, near to the neck of the gall-blad- der, divides into the Gastrica Inferior dex- tra, and the proper Hepatic Artery. From the gastrica dextra, the following branches are derived : The Arteria Pylorica, which supplies the pylorus; The duodenalis, which is dispersed on the right portion of the duodenum; Small branches to the pancreas. The trunk of the artery then passes along the great curvature of the stomach, and anastomoses with the arteria epiploica sinistra, a branch of the splenic artery. The hepatic artery, during its progress along the great curvature of the stomach, is subdivided into the following branches ;SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. S55 Branches to the omentum; branches to the sto- mach, which anastomose with the superior gas- tric and pyloric arteries. The Right Branch of the Hepatic Artery, before dipping into the substance of the liver, sends off branches to the gall-bladder, called the Cystic, which pass along the left side of the gall- bladder, and which are subdivided into a number of very minute branches upon the villous coat of the gall-bladder. Of the Superior Mesenteric Artery. The Superior Mesenteric Artery, which 'is equal in some to the coeliac artery, takes its rise from the aorta, about a quarter of an inch below the coeliac : it is concealed by the pancreas. This artery passes over the duodenum, and is situated between the layers of the mesentery ; it turns from the left side of the spine, towards the right, forming an arch. From the left or convex side of the arch, twenty or thirty large branches are sent; each of which divides into two branches, which communicate with each other, and form arches ; from the convex part of which still smaller arteries are derived, which anasto- mose in a similar manner. There is a similar junction and separation of the smaller branches : at length the branches are straight, which pass to the intestines, and whichJ36 •• - OUTLINES OF ANATOMY* upon the villous coat are subdivided into very mi- nute branches, which terminate upon the villi. There are several small branches of this artery sent to the pancreas, which afterwards supply the duodenum, and anastomose with the branches of the cceliac. The larger branches of this artery on the left side convey blood to the jejunum and ileum; and these branches anastomose with each other by transverse arches. The larger branches of this artery on the right side are placed between the layers of the mesoco- lon, and have been named, ^ 1st, The Colic A Media, or Anastomotica, which supplies the middle of the transverse arch of the colon ; and the left branch of this artery commu- nicates with the colica sinistra, and inferior me- senteric artery. 2d, The Colica Dextra ; by means of which the right side of the colon is supplied with blood. 3d, Small branches, which are distributed on the omentum, and communicate with the arteriae gas- tro-epiploicae. ‘ ^ 4th, The Ileo-Colic, which supplies that part of the ileum which terminates in the colon j and from which a branch is derived, which commu- nicates wdth the colica dextra.br THE VENA PORTARUM; 337 Of the Inferior Mesenteric Artery. o The Inferior Mesenteric Artery, derived from the left side of the aorta, descends behind the peritoneum upon the psoas muscle, and soon di- vides into an ascending branch ; and the left colic artery ; the former of which supplies the colon with blood ; and communicating with the Colica media, forms the mesocolic arch ; the latter sup- plies the sigmoid flexure of the colon, called MORRHoiDALis Interna. The continuation of the trunk of the artery descends behind the back part of the intestinum curvuro, which it supplies vvith blood, and communicates with the left colic ar- tery. Sect. II. j OF THE CORRESPONDING VEINS. The veins correspond In their situation with the arteries above described, except the hepatic. •The large trunks of the veins, viz. the Mesen- teric, the Gastric, and the Splenic, unite in forming a large venous trunk, which lies under the head of the pancreas, and then enters the liver at its’Portae •, and hence has been called the Vena Portarum. The vena Portae reaches the liver, VOL. HI. yOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 358 it receives the nencc. cystica, and then divides into two great branches; one of which supplies the right lobe, and the other the left lobe of the liver. The blood carried to the liver by the hepatic artery and venae portae is returned to the heart by veins, called Ven^ Cav^e Hepatic^, which open into the vena cava by two, and often by three trunks, where the vena cava perforates the dia- phragm. • Sect. III. OF THE NERVES OF THE CHYLOPOETIC AND AS- SISTANT CHYEOPOETIC VISCERA. The nerves of the chylopoetic, and assistant chylopoetic viscera, are derived from the sympa- thetic ner^e ; the par vagum of the eighth pair of nerves ; and the rami splanchnici. The Rami Splanchnisi arise from the sympa- thetic nerves ; they pass through the upper and lateral parts of the smaller diaphragm, and join the great semilunar ganglion. The Paria Vaga of the eighth pair also assist in forming the semilunar ganglion. The par vagum of the left side having passed along the gullet, gets to the fore-part of the up- per orifice of the stomach, and divides into a num- ber of small nerves, which are distributed on theJ^ERVES or TI^E ABDOMINAL ‘^rSCERA. ^3^ tipper surface of the stomach ; and a few filaments from this'nerve join the left hepatic plexus. ' The Par Vagum of the right side, situated upon the back-part of the stomach, divides into two plexuses ; one of which joins the hepatic plexus -, the' other is distributed upon* the up^ per and great left sac of the stomach'. The Semilunar Solar Ganglion*, formed by the paria vtiga and the rami splanchnici, is of an irr&gular form and from it, nerves are de- rived, which accompany the coeliac artery and it® branches. The Coeliac Ganglion Covers the aorta, and the roots of the coeliac and superior mesentevfe ar-i teries; from which a nervous plexus is derived, which covers the trunks and branches of the cce- liac and the superior mesenteric arteries. From this ganglion, the hepatic plexuses are al- so derived. From the right hepatic plexus, the right extre- mity of the pancreas is supplied; the pyloric por- tion of the stomach ; the duodenum, and the great- er curvature of the stomach. The branches of the hepatic plexus also accom- pany the branches of the hepatic »artery and vena portarum through the substance of the liver ; and are also distributed upon the gall-bladder and bi- liary ducts. Y2 * Vid. Walteri Tab. Nenr.■0 3^0 , OUTLINES OF ANATOMYr . . The Splenic Plexus of nerves accompanici the splenic artery, and also the smaller branches of the splenic artery, into the substance of the spleen. . The Superior and Inferior Mesenteric Plex-. uses of Nerves form sheaths, which envelope the trunks and branches of the corresponding arte- ries. ■ From these sheaths, very small nerves are de- rived, which are distributed over the surface of the mesentery, and the mesenteric glands. The nerves of the colon are proportionally lar- ger than those of the smaller intestines, and are frequently united. The inferior plexus of nerves is continued down- wards along the left portion of the colon, and the intestinum curvum. The aorta is included within a plexus of nerves. caUed the Hypogastric. 0 . / ■ ^341 OF THE RENAL ARTERY. ' . CHAPTER V. ^ 0*F THE ARTERIES, VEINS, LYMPHATIC VES- i SELS AND NERVES OF THE ORGANS OF* •URINE AND GENERATION. Sect. I. OF THE RENAL ARTERIES. The Renal Arteries are sent off from the aor- ta, immediately under the superior, and above the • inferior mesenteric artery, by a trunk on each side. The renal artery of the right side is placed •be- * hind the vena cava, and is longer than the left; Each renal artery at the concave part of the kidney is subdivided into three or four branches, which surround the pelvis of the kidney, and then plunge into the substance of these organs, and are spent chiefly on the cortical parts of the kidneys, and form arches at the roots of the papillae of the kidney. Y 3OUrj^INES OF ANATOMY, A few small branches of the renal arteries supply the fat around the kidneys with blood, and also the renal capsules. The fat around the kidneys is also supplied with blood from the diapliragmatic arteries. Of the Spermatic Arteries, The Spermatic are the next arteries which take their rise from the fore-side of the aorta; they run towards the pelvis along the psoas mus- cles behind the peritoneum ; the right passes over the vena cava, and the left behind the cholic arte- ries. The spermatic arteries join the spermatic veins on the psoas muscle. The spermatic arteries of the male then pass along the inguinal canal, through the upper and under abdominal apertures, and are at length dispersed upon the epididymis and body of the testicles. The spermatic arteries also send branches in their course downwards lo the ureters. The spermatic arteries of the female divide in- - to two branches : the posterior pass along the broad ligaments of the uterus to the ovaria ; the anterior pass along the fallopian tubes to the uterus, and communicate freely and repeatedly with the ute- rine hypogastric arteries.343 OF THE ILIAC^ COMMUNES. Of the Iliaca Communes. The aorta divides opposite to the third lumbar vertebra into two great branches called Iliac^ Communes. The common iliac arteries pass downwards and outwards, and each divides over the sacro-iliac Symphyses, into the Iliaca Anterior, and Ilia- CA Posterior. Of the Branches of the Posterior Iliac Artery^ proper to the Organs of Urine and Generation. The branches of the posterior iliac are, the Um- bilical, the Vesical, the Uterine, Vaginal, and PuDic. The greater share of the umbilical is, in the adult, converted into a ligament. From the ori- gin of the umbilical artery, a few branches take their rise, and are distributed on the bladder of urine, the vesiculae seminales, prostate gland, and intestinum curvum. *, The uterine arteries come off between the glu- teal and pudendal arteries; pass along the sides of the uterus, towards its upper part, where they anastamose with the spermatic arteries. These arteries send small branches to the t'aginUi Y4OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. sU The vagina also receives blood from the pu- dic, and vesical arteries. The PuDic Arteries are derived from the branches of the posterior iliac, called hypogastric^ or from the ischiatic arteries. "* These arteries pass through the under-part of the notch of the os ilium, and then between the sacro.* ischiatic ligaments, to the inner sides of the tubero- sities of the ischia, from which, in the male, they advance along the inner side of the ascending branch of that bone, behind the transversalis muscle and crus penis. In the above course, there are se- veral branches derived from the trunk of the ar- tery ; 1st, The perineal artery, which ascends between the accelerator urinae and erector muscles, supply- ing with blood the fat, muscles and skin of the perineum. • 2d, The principal artery of the penis, which divides into two great branches ; one of which runs along the dorsum penis, and another artery subdivides into the arteries proper to the corpora cavernosa penis, and which supply also the corpus spongiosum urethrae *. . * Dr Camper’s Engravings of the Pelvis give very accurate representations of the course of the Pucjic Artery.ORGANS OF URINE AND GENERATION. 345\ Sect. II. VARIETIES AS TO THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE AR“ TiiRIES PROPER TO THE ORGANS OF URINE AND GENERATION. Deviations from the usual course of the above 1 arteries seldom occur. Instead of one large renal artery, I have seen tvyo or three separate trunks running to the kid- ■ The pudic artery sometimes is attached to the lateral and inferior part of the bladder of urine and instead of passing outwards between the sa- cro-sciatic ligaments, according to 'Mr A. Burns, “ traverses the upper segment of the prostate gland.” He has added ; “ In all instances of this lusus, which have come to my knowledge, the ar- tery has run above that portion of the prostate gland which projects beyond the side of the ure- thra.” There is considerable variety as to the origin of the obturator artery. Sometimes it takes its rise by a short, and sometimes by a long trunk from the epigastric artery, as has been particularly de- scribed in the article upon Hernia in the Second Voluipe.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 34S The branches of the arteria circumflexa ossis ilii sometimes ascend for a considerable way upon the muscles of the abdomen ; and have, according to Mr Burns, been opened in performing the pa- racentesis of the abdomen. Sect. III. OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE ORGANS OF URINE AND GENERATION. f The Lymphatic Vessels of the penis are super*- ficial or deep-seated : the former pass into the in- guinal glands, and the deeper-seated lymphatics accompany the arteries to the deeper parts of the pelvis. The lymphatic vessels of the testicle arise from the substance of that organ, from the epidi- dymis and coats of the testicle ; they join with those of the spermatic chord, and pass through the inguinal canal, and terminate in the lumbar glands. The lymphatic vessels of the external organs of generation of the female go to the inguinal glands, or to the iliac glands, and terminate in the lumbar glands; and in their course, frequently communi- cate with each other. The lymphatic vessels of the inguinal glands pass upwards to small glands situated at the sides of the iliac arteries, and hence called iliac glands ;347 VEINS or ORGANS OF URINE, &C. and from them the lymphatic vessels pass upwards to a cluster of glands, situated over the aorta, where it divides into its great branches, and which have been called lumbar lymphatic glands. Sect. IV. 9F THE VEINS WHICH CORRESPOND WITH THE AR- TERIES OF THE ORGANS OF URINE AND GENERA- TION. The Renal Veins terminate in the vena cava inferior ; the left is longer than the right, as the aorta intervenes between the left kidney and the vena cava. The veins which correspond with the arteri^ capsulares, terminate in the renal vein, and some- times in the vena cava. The Spermatic Veins are larger than the sper- matic artery, and form a plexus which accom- panies the spermatic artery ; and opposite to the lower end of the kidney, this plexus terminates in a single trunk, which ends in the vena cava, a .little below the renal v^in. The termination of the spermatic vein of the female, is similar to that of the male. There are veins which correspond with the ar- teries of the bladder of urine, which lead into the hypogastric veins. 1 he veins of the penis form a large vein, which runs along the penis, called the ve?2a ipsius penis;• OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. ' it passes backwardsi between the root of the penis, and arch of the pubis, forms a plexus of veins which surround the neck of the bladder and pro- state gland. The branches of the pudic artery, are accom- panied by veins, which form a trunk, which lies in contact with thfe pudic artery. The pudic vein communicates anteriorly with the vena ipsius penis, at the root of the penis. ' " ' Sect. V. OF THE NERVES OF THE ORGANS OF URINE AND GENERATION. A plexus of nerves is derived from the coeliac plexus, and from the great sympathetic nerve which envelope the renal arteries and their branches. The spermatic nerves, which follow the same course as the spermatic artery, are derived from the renal and aortic plexuses, and form the second lumbar nerves. The pudic nerves, which are branches of the sciatic nerves, follow the same course as the pudic arteries. The principal nerve of the penis, is called the dorsal nerxe ; it is placed between the correspond- ing artery and vein, and running along the dor- sum penis, terminates on the glans.ARTERIES OF INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. S4^ t ‘ . L . CHAPTER VI. OF THE ARTERIES, VEINS, LYMPHATIC VES- SELS, AND NERVES OF THE PARIETES OF THE ABDOMEN, PELVIS, AND INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. Sect. I. OF THE ARTERIES OF THE PARIETES OF THE ABDO- MEN, PELVIS, AND OF THE INFERIOR EXTRE- MITY. - • T'HE Lumbar Arteries, take their rise, in pairs, from the back-part of the aorta ; the left are longer than the right, as they pass under the vena cava. The lumbar arteries give branches to the spine, spinal marrow, muscles of the loins, the transverse and oblique muscles of the abdomen, and they communicate with the lower intercostal, diaphrag- matic, and epigastric arteries. * .OUTLINES OF ANATOMT. 350 Sacra Media.—This arrery takes its rise from the bifurcation of the aorta ; it descends along the middle of the os sacrum to the ossa cqccygis, to which it gives branches, and communicates with the arteries, called sacra faterales. From this artery, there are a number of small branches derived, which are distributed upon the muscles of the loins, and upon the iliacus internus muscle. I Of the IliaccE Communes. The branches of- the aorta called Uiaca com- muneSy sweep along the sides of the pelvis, and nearly opposite to the sacro-iliac symphyses ; and each divide into an Anterior and Posterior Iliac Artery. * Of the Iliaca Posterior. t The trunk of this artery, passes backwards and downwards for about a couple of inches; it then di- vides into an anterior and posterior set of branches. Of the Posterior Branches of' the Posterior Iliac Artery. Ilio-Lumbar, or Iliaca Interna Minor. This artery ascends between the psoas and iliacusOF THE POSTERIOR ILIAC ARTERY, 351 iftternus muscles, towards the crista of the os ilium; and anastomoses with the lumbar arteries, and circumflex of the os ilium. Sacr^ Laterales.—There are three or four of these arteries ; they sometimes take their rise from the ilio-lumbar, or from the gluteal artery. These arteries descend on the side of the os sacrum, communicate with the sacra media ; and branches of this artery enter the fora- mina of the os sacrum, and supply the cauda equina. The course of the vesical, hemorrhoidal, and pudendal arteries, which are branches of the iliaca posterior, has been already described. Arteria Glutea.—The gluteal artery, is the largest branch of the posterior iliac ; it takes- its rise from the back-part of the trunk of the iliac, passes backwards through the upper part of the great notch of the os ilium, and is subdivided into two great branches, a superjicialy and deep-seated branch. The superficial passes betw^een the gluteus maxi- mus, and medius; to both of which, it gives many branches. This artery anastomoses with the sa- cral artery. The deep-seated branch, placed under the mid- dle of the gluteus muscle, divides into Superior and Inferior branches. The branches of the Superior, are distributed on the dorsum of the os ilium, and the gluteus me-352 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. > dius muscle ; and some small branches pass downi wards on the gluteus medius and minimus. The Inferior branch is distributed upon the in* ferior gluteus, superior geminus muscle, and sub- divides suddenly into a number of small branches, which are lost upon the trochanter major, and which inosculate with the smaller ascending branches derived from the perforating branches of the arteria profunda femoris. Of the Anterior Branches of the Posterior Iliac A rtery. The Umbilical Artery, has been already de- scribed. The arteries >vesicales, are sometimes branches of the ^umbilical, sometimes of the pudic, and sometimes of the hypogastric artery. Arteria Uterina.—This is also a branch of the anterior, and has been already described. Arteria HiEMORRHoiDALis Media.—This af- tery runs on the fore-part of the intestinum cur- vum, and anastomoses with the haemorrhoidalis in- terna. . From this artery, there are branches derived, which go to the under-part of the bladder of urine, to the vesiculcc seminales, and prostate gland; and in the female, to the vagina. The Arteria Pudenda Communis, has been « ■« described above.353 OT THE POSTERIOR ILIAC ARTERY. Arteria Obturatoria.—This artery is gene- rally a branch of the posterior iliac artery, but sometimes it takes its rise from the epigastric ar- tery, as has been noticed in the article Hernia, in the second volume. This artery passes along the upper edge of the obturator internus muscle, and then through the hole in the ligamentous membrane, which shuts up the foramen thyroideum. The artery then divides into external and inter- nal branches, which are 'distributed upon the ob- turator muscles, the ligament of the hip-joint, and origin of the vastus internus muscle. The l;?ri'tiches of this artery anastomose with the circumflex, and the profunda femoris. Pudenda Communis.—This artery has-been al- ready described. IscHiATic Artery.—This artery leaves the pel- vis at the lower margin of the pyriform muscle, accompanied by the sciatic nerve, and is covered by the gluteus maximus muscle. It descends in the hollow between the great trochanter of the thigh-bone and the tuberosity of the ischium, a- long with the sciatic nerve. Before leaving the pelvis, it detaches branches to the intestinum curvum, obturator internus, and pyriform muscles ; and, without the pelvis, it de- taches the arteria coccygea, which passes along the posterior sacro-sciatic ligament, and gives branches to the levator ani, coccygeus muscle, the tat and bones of the coccyx. VOL. HI. ZOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. •354 . A branch of this artery accompanies the sciatic nerve for some way down the thigh. A small branch of this artery communicates with the perforating branches of the arteria pro- funda femoris. Of the Anterior Iliac Artery and its Brajiches, The trunk of this artery sweeps along the in- ner edge of the psoas muscle, and is situated on the outer side of the vein ; it passes beneath the crural arch, and is then called /morfl/ artery. There are two considerable branches detached from the anterior iliac artery before it leaves the pelvis, the Epigastric Artery and Circumflex of the Os Ilium. There is much variety as to the origin of the epigastric artery, (as has been explained in the ar- ticle on Hernia) : generally it takes its rise about an inch from the crural arch ; it is.then reflected upwards and inwards behind the spermatic chord, and on the inner-side of the upper abdominal aper- ture. The artery then passes behind the rectus abdominis muscle, and ascends to meet with the smaller branches of the internal mammary artery, upon the back-part of the rectus abdominis. The epigastric artery sends a small branch, which is distributed upon the pubal side of Gim- bernat’s ligament; a second, which passes throughOF THE ANTERIOR ILIAC ARTERY. 855' Z 2 the inguinal canal; a third to the spermatic chord, which communicates with the spermatic artery. There are many small branches of this artery, which are distributed upon the integuments of the abdomen, and which sink into the substance of the recti and other muscles of the abdomen ; and it also anastomoses with the thoracic, intercostal and lumbar arteries. Circumflex Artery of the Ilium.—This ar- tery arises opposite to the epigastric artery ; runs along the internal edge of the crural arch ; fol- lows a retrograde course, and reaches the spine of the os ilium ; and as it ascends, divides into branches, which supply the internal oblique and transverse muscles of the abdomen, and communi- cate with the lumbar and ilio-lumbar arteries, and with the inguinal branch of the arteria pro- funda femoris. This artery also gives branches to the psoas, sartorius and iliacus internus muscles. Of the Femoral Artery and its Branches. The femoral artery, surrounded by fat and the lym- phatic glands of the groin, lies over the ball of the thigh-bone, and covers the corresponding vein ; is afterwards lodged in the hollow at the upper and inner part of the thigh, having the adductor mus- cles on the inner side, and the rectus and sartorius on its outer side.OUTLIN£S OF ANATOMY. 356 The artery is covered by the fascia lata of the thigh. The first artery derived from the superficial fe- moral artery, is the superior External Pudic, which crosses the heads of the pectineus and gra- ciles muscles, and gives branches to the ingui- nal glands, to the scrotum, and anastomoses with the branches of the epigastric artery. The small branch of this artery proper to the scrotum, .in some cases of large scrotal hernia?, attains a large size. A little lower down, the Inferior and Exter- nal Pudic Arteries take their rise. These arteries are subdivided into several small branches, which are distributed upon the heads of the triceps adductor femoris ; the pectineus mus- cle ; the skin of the scrotum ; the integuments of the penis; and also upon the skin of the abdo- men which covers the ossa pubis ; and several of the branches of this artery anastomose with those of the penis. About two inches under the crural arch, the fe- moral artery divides into two great branches, which are nearly equal in size. The branch which fol- lows the same direction with the trunk has been called the anterior superficial femoral artery, and the other, which sinks deep among the muscles, the artcria profunda femoris. The trunk of the superficial femoral artery de- scends obliquely to wards the inner side of the thigh;BRANCHES OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 357 and, about the middle of the thigh, is situated on the triangular space between the vastus internus muscle and the second head of the abductor mus- cle ; and the sartorius muscle passes across it. The Profunda Femoris, situated behind the superficial femoral, passes backwards, and is situa- ted in the triangular cavity between the iliacus in- ternus and pectineus muscle. The following '.branches are derived from the arteria profunda femoris. The External CiRcu mflex, which passes under the sartorius and rectus muscles, and towards the root of the great trochanter, is distributed on the rectus cruris ; and, perforating the fascia of the thigh, is spent on the skin over the hip. A large branch passes down the inside of the vastus inter- ims, and communicates with the superior articular artery of the knee. The Internal Circumflex sinks deep be- tween the pectineus, iliacus internus, and psoas muscles j it then passes into the space between the greater and lesser trochanter. An external pudic artery is sometimes derived from the internal circumflex, but more commonly from the superficial femoral artery. This artery crosses the upper portions of the pectineus and gracilis muscle, and is subdivided into a number of small branches, which are dis- tributed upon the inguinal glands, the scrotum, and pubes. Z33-58 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. A branch of this artery anastomoses with a branch of the obturator artery. Small branches of this artery also anastomose, upon the capsular li- gament of the hip-joint, with those of the gluteal artery. The internal circumflex then passes behind the lesser trochanter, and is subdivided into many small branches, some of which sink into the sub- stance of the triceps adductor femoris, others sup- ply the quadratus femoris, and obturator internus muscles. A descending branch of this artery passes outwards from beneath the quadratus femoris, anastomoses with the branches of the ischiatic artery, and terminates upon the semimembranosus, semitendinosus, and adductor muscles. The circumflex arteries also anastomose with the arteries of the periosteum. Professor Scarpa has bestowed much pains in describing and in representing this anastomosis. Vid. his Tab. 2d, affixed to his book Sull Aneu- risma. The branches proper to the periosteum,-are de- rived from the external circumflex, which enters the cruralis muscle, and which anastomose with other branches which come under the vastus in- ternus muscle. About the middle of the thigh, a considerable branch is derived from thearteria profunda, which is distributed upon the periosteum, and M'hich di-BRANCHES OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 359 vides into ascending and descending branches; the former of which, join with the smaller branches of the external eircumflex artery, and the latter with the superior articulating branches of the popliteal artery, and also with a branch derived from the popliteal artery, which is dis- tributed upon the periosteum, covering that part of the thigh-bone in the vicinity of the con- dyles. The arteria profunda femoris, inclines towards the inner side of the thigh, after giving off the circumflex arteries, and is lodged in the cavity be- tween the second head of the adductor muscle, and the vastus internus muscle. There are four perforating arteries, derived from the profunda femoris. The first perforating artery, after having pas- sed through the adductor muscle, appears on the back thigh, about two jinches below the quadra- tus femoris, and divides into two branches ; one of which runs upwards to the great trochan- ter, is subdivided into small branches upon the gluteus maximus muscle, and anastomoses with the smaller branches of the gluteal artery. The other branch passes into the substance of the vas- tus externus muscle, and anastomoses with the smaller ramifications of the external circumflex artery. Dr Ryan made for me a very beautiful prepara- tion of the arteries above described, in which, Z %360 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. the superior branch of the profunda ascended up- on the posterior part of the long head of the bi- ceps flexor cruris, and divided into two small branches which inosculate with two similar branches of the ischiatic artery, so that, upon the above mentioned muscle, arterial circle is form- ed by the conjoined branches of the ischiatic and superior perforating branch of the profunda fe- moris. In this preparation, there was another arterial circle formed upon the dorsum of the os ilium, immediately above the acetabulum, by the con- joined branches of the external circumflex artery,’ and a small gluteal artery. I have made the more particular mention of these arterial circles, or as they may be called double anastomoses, found in the above described, case, as Scarpa has not represented such arterial circles in his very splendid and accurate Plates of the arteries of the head, neck, superior and in- ferior extremities. In most cases, the perforating branches come off separately, as mentioned below ; but, in other instances, I have seen them derived from a com- mon trunk. The second perforating branch, passes through the adductor maximus muscle, and divides into a number of small branches, which are distributed upon the biceps flexor cruris. The third perforating artery, passes over the short head of the biceps flexor cruris, and after-OF THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. 861 wards dips into the substance of the vastus exter- nu6, and anastomoses with the branches of the ex- ternal circumflex muscle. The branches of the fourth perforating artery^ are distributed upon both heads of the biceps ; and some of its branches are distributed upon the semitendinosus, and semimembranosus muscles. About two-thirds down the thigh, the trunk of the superficial femoral passes obliquely backwards between the tendon of the adductor magnus and the thigh-U)ne, and reaches the back-part of the thigh-bone, and then descends into the ham, where its cellular membrane is lodged in fat, and cover- ed by the corresponding vein, and the sciatic nerve, and well protected by the condyles of the thigh-bones. Of the Popliteal artery. There are five branches of the popliteal artery, called its articular branches, three of which are placed on the inner, and two on the outer side of the knee-joint; these branches anastomose with each other, and with the branches of the ar- teria profunda femoris, and also with those of the ^superficial femoral artery. The first branch of the popliteal artery ascends from the ham, towards the inner and lower part of the thigh, and is lost in the vastus internusOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 562 muscle, by which it is covered ; it anastomoses ' with the branches of the superficial femoral, and also with the branches of the superior internal ar- ticular artery. The second branch, called Superior Internal Articular Artery, descends to the inner con- dyle of the thigh-bone, and anastomoses with the external articular artery.) This artery afterwards divides into ^wo brancheSy one of which passes over the capsular ligament of the knee-joint, and assists in forming a net-w'ork of bloodvessels which covers the patella, and a still smaller branch passes on the edge of the in- ternal semilunar cartilage, and enters the cavity of the knee-joint. The deeper-seated branch passes along the cap- sular ligament, and divides into a number of small arteries, which enter the internal condyle of the thigh. The Inferior Internal Articular Artery ascends, and is covered by the tendinous aponeu- rosis of the semimembranosus, sartorius and semi- tendinosus muscles ; and by the internal lateral ligament of the knee ; and it anastomoses with the preceding artery. There are also two external articular arteries^ a Superior and an Inferior, derived from the popli- teal artery : the former supplies the muscles in the vicinity of the outer condyle of the thigh-bone and the external lateral ligament; the latter,OF THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. 363 ^vhich, at its origin, is covered by the gastrocne- mius muscle, becomes more superficial at the head of the fibula, sends a few small branches to the cuvity of the joint, and anastomoses with the superior external, and superior internal articular artery, under the ligament of the patella. The fifth articular artery has been called the arfe- ria media: it is situated between the condyles of thethigh-bones, and suddenly subdivides into many small branches, which are distributed upon the capsular ligament and fat of the posterior part of the knee-joint. The popliteal artery descends between the heads of the gastrocnemii muscles, to which it gives se- veral branches, called sui'al; and opposite to the under edge of the popliteus -^muscle, divides into two large branches, the Tibialis Postica and Antica. The Anterior Tibial Artery perforates the upper part of the interosseous ligament; descends along the anterior surface of it between the tibia- lis anticus and extensor digitorum longus mus- cles. Above the ancle, it is situated upon the fore- part of the tibia ; it then passes under the annu- lar ligament j then between the extensor longus pollicis and tibialis anticus muscle, and passing along the upper part of the foot, at the root of the first metatarsal bone, it passes through to the sole of the foot, and communicates with the ex- ternal plantar artery.OUTLINES OF ANATOMF. r S64 In this course, this artery gives off the follow- ing branches : The recurrent, after it has passed through the interosseous ligament, which is spent upon the muscles of the* upper part of the leg, and which anastomoses with the inferior articula- ting artery of the knee-joint: A number of small branches to the muscles on the fore-part of the leg : 1 he external internal malleolar arteries, which supply the ancle-joint and neighbouring part of the tarsus : The tarsal arteries, which run along the ex- tensor digitorum brevis ; The metatarsal artery, which runs towards the root of the little toe. The continuation of the artery proceeds between the extensors of the great and smaller toes ; and the principal part of the artery passes to the sole of the’ foot between the metatarsal bones of the great and second toes. There are a few branches detached from the ar- tery before it reaches the sole of the foot, which are distributed upon the metatarsal bones of the toes. The Posterior Tibial Artery is situated un- der the soleus muscle ; it divides, about an inch below the rise of the tibialis antica, into the Tibial and Fibular arteries. The Fibular is the smaller of these branches ; it runs down the leg along the fibula, between theOF THE FIBULAR ARTERY. 36S tibialis posticus and flexor longus .pollicis ; and, near to the bottom of the leg, divides into the anterior and posterior peroneal branches. The peronea anterior passes through the interosseous li- gament, and communicates with the external mal- leolar arteries. The peronea posterior descends behind the external malleolus to the outer and back part of the foot, and anastomoses with the external malleolar and external plantar arteries. The posterior tibial artery, placed between the tibialis posticus and flexor communis digitorum, follows the course of the tibia to the lower end of that bone ; and becoming more superficial, is si- tuated between the inner ancle and the tendo a- chillis. There are several small branches detached from the posterior tibial artery to the adjacent muscles, and several small branches to the os calcis, Avhich communicate with the smaller branches of the an- terior tibial artery. The trunk of the artery then passes to the sole of the foot, and before passing behind the ab- duetor pollicis, divides into the Internal and External Plantar Arteries. The Internal Plantar Artery, is placed on the inner-side of the sole of the foot, between the abductor pollicis, and tendinous aponeurosis of the sole. From this artery, several small branches are de- tached, which are proper to the muscles and in- teguments of the sole of the foot.366 .OUTLINES OF ANATOMY.’ This artery passes under the flexor longus pol- licis pedis, anastomoses with the plantar arch, and gives a branch, which supplies the outer-side of the great toe, and one side of the toe next to it. The Plantaris Externa, which is larger than the internal plantar artery, passes between the flexor brevis digitorum pedis, and flexor acces- sorius, till it reaches the metatarsal bone of the little toe. This artery detaches a branch to the under and outer part of the heel, which communicates with the branches of the anterior tibial and fibular ar- teries, and several branches to the flexor muscles of the toes. This artery forms an arch between the flexor muscles, and the metatarsal bones of the small toes, and the root of the great-toe ; and from that arch, branches are sent to the interossei muscles, also three large digital branches, which, at the root of the toes, divide into two branches, which supply each side of the toes; and which, at the points of the toes, are united. The perforating branch of the anterior tibial artery, joins the plantar arch, so as to form a free communication between the arteries of the upper and under side of the foot.artehies of the inferior extremities. 367 .Sect. II. OF deviations as to the course of the ar- teries OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. The arteries of the Inferior Extremities are much more constant as to their course, than those of the Superior Extremities. The femoral artery commonly divides into_ its two great branches, the superficial femoral, and the arteria profunda femoris, about two inches be- low the crural arch, or Poupart’s ligament. In some cases, however, I have seen the profunda detach- ed immediately under Poupart’s ligament, and, but very rarely, as low as three inches below Poupart’s ligament. There is also considerable variety as to the origin of the circumflex arteries, which sometimes take their rise from the superficial femoral artery. The tibial artery sometimes takes its rise lower than usual, sometimes as low as the middle of the tibia.* The posterior tibial artery is sometimes smaller than the fibular artery. Mr A. Burns, has stated, that he had observed one or other of the tibial or fibular arteries alto- gether wanting.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY^ 36d Sect. III. OF THE VEINS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. I There are two sets of veins in the inferior ex- tremities, a subcutaneous and deeper-seated set, which communicate with each other freely and re- peatedly. The superficial veins of the inferior extremi- ties, which are situated under the skin, are uni- ted into two trunks, called Venai; Saph^en^. The vena saphaena-minor is formed by the veins of the outer side of the foot. This vein ascends on the outer side of the ancle ; and on the back of the leg upon the gastro- cnemius externus, and terminates in the popliteal vein. The Vena Saph^ena Major, formed by the veins on the upper part of the foot, runs along the inner ancle and inner edge of the tibia, and to the inner and upper part of the thigh, where it passes through the fascia lata of the thigh* and terminates in the deep femoral vein. The deeper-seated set of veins, or vense comites satellites, accompany the arteries. The tibial, fibular and sural veins, terminate in the popliteal vein, which lies over the popliteal artery.VEINS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 8&S The femoral vein receives all the veins which correspond with the branches of the femoral ar- tery, and those of the arteria profunda. The veins, from the inguinal glands and external, organs of generation, are also joined to the deep femoral vein, which passes under the crural arch: it is then named anterior iliac vein. The anterior iliac vein receives the circumflex, epigastric, and sometimes the obturator veins. The hypogastric vein, formed by the conjoined veins, which correspond with the branches of the hypo- gastric artery, is united with the iliac vein. The anterior and posterior iliac veins form the common iliac ; and by the union of the common iliac veins, the Vena Cava Inferior is formed, which, at its origin, receives the sacral and lumbar veinsv Sect. IV. 0F THE LVMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE INFERIOR EX-. TREMITIES. There is a superficial and deeper-seated set of lymphatic vessels in the inferior extremities, the former are disposed under the skin, and imbedded in the fat and cellular membrane ; the latter accompany the branches of the arteries; A a VOL. III.370 OUTLINES or ANATOMY. The lymphatic vessels form a plexus over the toes, from which many lymphatic vessels pass over the top of the foot to the inner part of the leg. There is another set of lymphatic vessels on the outer side of the foot, which cross over the front of the tibia, so as to reach the popliteal glands, which are situated around the popliteal artery. There are a number of lymphatic vessels on the inner side of the thigh, which follow the same course as the vena saphaena major, and lead to the ingui- nal lymphatic glands. The inguinal lymphatic glands vary in number and size; frequently there are only five or six dis- tinct glands ; on other occasions, a greater num- ber, and they are disposed in an upper and an un- der cluster ; and some of them lie upon the tendi- nous.aponeurosis of the thigh, but oftener beneath it. The lymphatic vessels of the thigh enter the lower cluster ; but there are some of them which are not connected with any of the lymphatic glands. The deeper-seated lymphatic vessels, which are less numerous than the superficial set, accompany the arteries, and are placed on each side of the arteries. They arise from the sides of the toes; accom- pany the plantar arteries ; and running up the leg, accompany the posterior tibial artery. There*NERVES, &C. OF INFERIOR EXTREMITV. 371 are also lymphatic vessels which accompany the tibial and fibular arteries, and these are connected with the popliteal glands, from which three or four lymphatic vessels pass upwards, and accom- pany the superficial femoral artery, and at length are connected with the inguinal glands. The lymphatic vessels of the scrotum, penis and glutei muscles also enter the inguinal glands. Sect. V. OF THE NERVES OF THE LOINS, AND INFERIOR EX- TREMITIES. The nerves of the loins and inferior extremi- ties are derived from the sympathetic^ lumbar and sacral nerves. Of the Sympathetic Nerves. The Sympathetic Nerves, after supplying the abdomen, approach each other upon the ante- rior part of the lumbar vertebrae, between the psoas muscle and the tendinous crura of the dia- phragm. These nerves descend, then pass over the anterior part of the os sacrum, at the inner sides of the foramina’of the os sacrum, and ter- minate upon the surface of the ossa coccygis;, when they are united by a transverse nerve. lA. a 2372 OUTINES or ANATOMY, The sympathetic nerves, during their course to the ossa coccygis, are united with the lumbar and sacral nerves by ganglia. Of the Lumbar Nerves. The five pairs of Lumbar Nerves are connect- ed with the sympathetic nerves, and with each other. The first pair of Lumbar Nerves is connected with the twelfth dorsal, and with the second lum- bar. This pair of nerves furnishes branches to the muscles of the loins, scrotum, and to the mus- cles of the upper parts of the thighs. The second pair of Lumbar Nerves perforates the psoas muscles, to which it gives branches: and detaches also the spermatic nerves, which descend along the spermatic vessels ; and above the upper abdominal aperture, divide into two branches, one of which is distributed upon the pubes, scro- tum and testis of the male, and upon the round ligament of the female uterus and external parts of generation ; and the other branch creeps along the femoral artery, and terminates on the fore* part of the thigh. A third branch passes behind the psoas, and across the iliacus internus, and is distributed upon the muscles of the upper and in- ner part of the thigh, and terminates upon the • .vastus internus, near to the knee. /OF THE LUMBAR NERVES. 373 Branches of the second, third and fourth lum- bar nerves form a nerve, which has been named Obturator, as it passes through the aperture in the ligamentous membrane, which shuts up the foramen obturatorium. This nerve supplies the obturator internus and pectineus muscles, and then divides into two parts, which are distributed upon the adductor muscles of the thigh. The third and fourth Lumbar pairs of nerves are considerably larger than the preceding, arid from them the following nerves are derived. The crural nerve, which detaches branches to the iliacus internus and psoas ; and passing be- hind the crural arch, is distributed upon the mus- cles and skin of the upper and lateral parts of the thigh, and is subdivided into subcutaneous hrancheSy which are spent upon the middle, fore and inner part of the thigh, and into deeper-seated and lar- ger branches, which supply the pectineus muscles, the sartorius, triceps, adductor femoris, and the four large extensor muscles of the leg. A branch of the subcutaneous branch accom- panies the vena saphaena, and has been called by Fischer the Nervus Saphcefius. This nerve supplies the inner and fore part of the leg, and is continued to the upper and inner part of the foot. This nerve descends between the sartorius and triceps muscles, and reaches the inner side of the tibia ; and under the knee, it detaches a branch, called the Nervus Saphcenus minory which is sub- A a 3OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 974 divided into very minute fibrils upon the inner and back part of the leg, and terminates behind the inner ancle, Of the Sacral Ner>ves, The sacral nerves consist of an anterior and pos- terior fasciculus ; the anterior nerves are large, the posterior very small, and distributed upon the back part of the os sacrum and the glutei mus- cles. The anterior sacral nerves fill up the holes in the anterior part of the sacrum, and are united with each other, and with the branches of the sympathetic nerve. The first, second and third sacral nerves join with the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, and form the Sciatic nerve, the largest nerve of the body. The sciatic nerve passes through the notch of the os ilium ; then between the tuber ischii and trochanter major, where it is covered by the gluteus maximus. The sciatic nerve descends in the back part of the thigh between the long flexor and adductor maximus, and then into the ham. In this course, it gives off small branches to the scrotum of the male, and to the labia of the female ; and to the perineum ; to the long head of the biceps ; and a few subcutaneous branches, Avhich terminate in the skin of the calf of thqA a 4 ' OF THE SACRAL NERVES. 3/5 The Popliteal Nerve covers the popliteal bloodvessels of the ham, and is divided below the knee into an external and internal branch, or into a fibular and tibial nerve. The Fibular Nerve detaches the cutaneous nerve, which supplies the gastrocnemius muscle ; a second branch, which passes to the outer part of the leg, and terminates in the same side of the foot; a third branch, which perforates the pero- neus longus, and which ends in the middle of the outer part of the foot. The fibular nerve also detaches deep-seated branches; a branch to the peroneus longus; a branch to the tibialis anticus ; to the extensor pol- licis, and small nerves which adhere to the coats of the tibial artery. A branch also, which accompanies the anterior tibial artery and its ramifications. The Tibial Nerve passes between the heads of the gastrocnemius; perforates the gastrocnemius internus ; passes between the flexor digitorum lon- gus and the gastrocnemius, and along with the pos- terior tibial artery, to the under part of the leg. The branches of this nerve supply the heads of the gastrocnemius, the tibialis posticus, flexor digitorum, aud flexor pollicis muscles. The Tibial Nerve then passes in the"] hollow of the os calcis, and divides into the External and Internal Plantar Nerves. The external plantar nerve gives branches to th e heel; and passing along the foot, divides intoOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 376 three principal branches. The two first pass for- wards to the fourth and fifth toes, and outer side of the little toe. The third branch forms an arch, ' and corresponds with the external plantar artery ^ and gives branches to the muscles of the little toe, to the lumbric^les, interossei and transversalis pedis, and terminates in the muscles of the great toe. The Internal Plantar Nerve is situated on the inner side of the sole of the foot, and gives off branches to the abductor pollicis, flexor digi- torum brevis, and lumbricalcs muscles. • This nerve afterwards sends off four large' branches, which accompany the arteries; pass along the plantar sides of all the toes, excepting the little toe and the outer side of the fourth toe, 3nd terminate in tfie extremities of the toes. CHAPTER VII. • OBSERVATIONS ON THE DISTRIBUTION AND ANASTOMOSES OF THE ARTERIES, VEINS, LYMPHATIC VESSELS, AND NERVES. THE plan which has been adopted in tho prece-? ^ing Chapters, in describing the course of the ar-distribution of the arteries, &.C. S77 tertes, veins, nerves and lymphatic vessels, differs from that of any author with whose works I am acquainted, and is, in my mind, superior on ac- count of the view which it exhibits of their re- lative situation- Sect. I. I OBSERVATIONS ON THE DISTRIBUTION AND ANAS^ TOMOSES OF THE ARTERIES AND VEINS. The limits of these Outlm'es have precluded ane from subjoining Pathological Observations re- «pecting the wounds or diseases of particular ar- teries and veins, and have compelled me to con- fine myself solely to description. I have endea- voured to describe particularly the inosculations between the several branches of the arteries and veins; upon which very important and exten- sive subject it seems necessary to subjoin a few general reflections, which tend not only to en- large our view of the operations of the animal economy, but also to explain the principles upon which the more modem and improved method of treating wounded or diseased arteries is founded. There are various purposes served by the anas- tomoses of the arteries: 1st, By means of the anastomoses of the smaller jramifications of the arteries, circulation is main-378 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. tained where it might have been obstructed by the sudden and unequal pressure, to which par- ticular organs are exposed, occasioned by dis- tention, contortion, or the pressure of neigh- bouring organs, as in the case of the stomach, in- testines, bladder of urine, and womb. The blood, by means of the anastomoses, may occasionally pursue even a retrogade course. The extremities of the body, from various causes, are liable to partial pressure ; hence there are numerous anastomoses at the shoulder, elbow, hip, and knee joints, so that modern surgeons do not now hesitate to throw ligatures upon the sub- clavian, axillary, humeral, iliac, femoral, or pop- liteal arteries, being fully aware, that the circu- lation of the blood will be maintained by means of the lateral anastomosing arteries. 2d, It IS highly probable, that the still smaller ramifications of the arteries, are in a similar man- ner subservient to the larger anastomosing arteries, as in the case of the extremities; and I have no doubt, that the anastomoses upon the periosteum of the thigh-bone, so beautifully represented by Scarpa in his Treatise upon Aneurism, have a considerable share in supporting the circulation, when the main trunk of the artery of the thigh has been obstructed. 3d, The anastomoses of the arteries may per- haps serve other useful purposes in the animal e- conomy, as they are not merely proper to those or- gans which are exposed to the influence of pressure.distribution of the arteries, &c. 379 but also common to the brain and heart; those organs upon which life more immediately depends : and likewise to the liver, salivary glands, pan- creas, and other secretory organs. 4th, Anastomoses are also essential to the re- generation of parts which have been injured or detached. There is an increased action of vessels in every part of the body, which is in a state of growth ; the bloodvessels of that part become larger, and more freely and frequently communicate with each other, than in other parts of the same or- gan. By means of anastomoses of vessels, a part, which has been separated, adheres and grows ; thus, a bone adheres to a bone, a muscle to a muscle, a nose may be supplied, or a tooth may be transplanted. By the inosculation of vessels, even parts of different structure are united ; thus, for instance, Mr Du Hamel found, that the spur of a cock may be inserted into the comb of the animal, where it continued to live and to grow ; and Mr Hunter found, that a human tooth adhered to a cock’s comb *. * Upon this very curious subject, the reader is refeired for further information to the works of Garengeot, Traite des Operat. tom. iii—Taliacotius.—Vesalius, Chir. Magaz. cap. ix—Heister.—Fl grant.—Du Hamil, Mem. de; I'Acad. des Sciences, 1746; and Aux. Observat.OUTLINES.OF ANATOMY. 380 The wonderful extent of the power of the anastomosing vessels, has only of late been fully ascertained. Modern investigation and experiment have proved, that an obstruction of the aorta or vena cava, does not prove fatal. A case is detailed at considerable length in Volume Second of M. Desault’s Journal, in which the aorta below its arch was much eon^ tracted. He says, “ qu’ elle avoit tout-au-plus la grosseur d’ un tuyau de plume a ecrire.” He has added, ' La partie de cette artere qui se trouvoit au des- sus du retrdcissement, etoit ^ peine delatee, et celle qui etoit au dessous conservit son calibre ordinaire.” The subclavian artery, and its branches, the ex- ternal thoracic, the internal mammary, the lower intercostal derived from the aorta, and the epigas- tric arteries, were much enlarged, and, with the exception of the first artery, were tortuous. In short, in this very remarkable instance, the greater part of the blood, instead of reaching the inferior extremities by the medium of the usual channel, the aorta, had descended by the internal mammary and epigastric arteries. Mr Astley Cooper has repeatedly thrown ligatures upon the aortae of dogs, of which he has published the following account:’ LIGATURE OF AORTA^ 881 “ I was anxious to ascertain when even the aorta was tied, if the blood would still find its ■course by anastomosis. “ It is now more than two years ago that I opened the abdomen, by an incision of about three inches in length, close to its junction with the loins, and turning aside the peritoneum with my finger, I felt the aorta pulsating, and passing a blunt hook under it, easily put a ligature around “it. During the last winter, assisted by my friends Mr White and Mr Dean, two of our most pro- mising and intelligent pupils, I repeated the ex- periments, and have the honour of shewing to the Society the aorta tied and divided, the animal having survived the experiment, and maintained his usual health; the ligatures coming away as other ligatures upon arteries, and a successful in- jection having been made of the body, the anas- tomosing vessels are beautifully seen. These were sufficiently large and numerous to allow of a free injection of the femoral vessels. “ Some degree of weakness is produced in the hinder extremities by a ligature made upon the aorta ; but it is not sufficient to prevent the ani- mal from using them with great freedom, and would scarcely be observed by one who knew no- thing of the experiment. “ Previous to the animal being killed, the fe- moral artery and vein were laid bare j the blood382 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. in the artery was florid as usual, and passed with a motion that was pulsatory, although weaker than natural.” That distinguished author very lately sent me the result of one of his experiments. Mr Fyfe jww/or, who dissected the Dog, has fa- voured me with the following account of what he had observed : The aorta was tied about an inch and a half above its division. The anastomosis between the superior and in- ferior mesenteric arteries was very much enlarged; and that artery described a tortuous course. The four uppermost lumbars on each side were very much enlarged. There was an anastamosis between the third and fourth lumbar on the right side, at the side of the lumbar vertcbrie. There were two very large anastomoses between the second and third lumbars, lying between the vertebrae and muscles of the loins on the left side; and another between the third and fourth of the same side. A small branch ran from the second lumber ar^ tery, to near the bifurcation of the aorta. The first and second lumbars came off above the obliteration of the aorta ; the third on the right side seems to have been included between the two ligatures.383 LIGATURE OF THE AORTA. The third left. lumbar came off from the right side of the aorta immediately below the oblitera- tion. The fourth and fifth on each side came off near the bifurcation of the aorta. The latter are very small, and do not seem to have made any anasto- moses with the other branches. The epigastric arteries seemed to be enlarged. The knowledge which we have gained respect- ing the anastomosing arteries, has paved the way to a new and improved method of treating wound- ed or diseased arteries, by which many patients, who, twenty or thirty years ago, would have been suffered to die, are now rescued from the brink of the grave*. * My Father’s experiments upon the arteries of animals, the ebservations of Mr White of Manchester, upon the humeral artery, of Mr Astley Cooper, upon the arteries of the extre- mities, have shewn how much the lateral anastomosing arteries are enlarged when the main trunks have been obstructed. Mr A. Cooper’s history of the dissection of a limb, on which the operation for popliteal aneurism had been performed, is too important to be omitted. He has observed, “ The femoral ar- tery, which is necessarily obliterated by the ligature, was here converted into a cord from the origin of the arteria profunda down to the ham. The whole of the popliteal artery was also changed into a similar substance; and thus the natural channel of the blood from the groin to the lower part of the knee was entirely destroyed. The muscles, therefore, which usually re- ceive bloodvessels from the femoral artery, as the sartorius, the rectus, and the vasti, had no branches but from the arteria pro- funda and circumflex arteries; and the articular arteries from384 ouTLiNis OF Anatomy. My Father has contributed considerably to the improved method of treating aneurisms ; of which, the popliteal, although they were still capable of receiving blood, derived it, not from the popliteal artery, but from the communi- cating vessels of the profunda. " The arteria profunda formed the new channel for the blood. Considerably enlarged in its diameter, although still not equal in size to the femoral artery at the groin> it took its usual course to the back of the thigh on the inner side of the thigh- bone, and sent branches of a larger size than usual to the dexor muscles of the leg, and just midway on the back of the thigh, it began to send off those arteries which became the support of • the new circulation. " The first artery'sent off, passed down close to the back of the thigh-bone, and entered the two superior articular branches of the popliteal arteiy, which vessels supply the upper part of the knee-joint. '' The second new large vessel arising from the profunda at the same part with the former, passed down by the inner side of the biceps muscle to an artery of the popliteal, which was distributed to the gastrocnemius muscle, whilst a third artery dividing into several branches, passed down with the sciatic nerve behind the knee-joint, and some of its branches um'ted themselves with the inferior articular arteries of the popliteal, with some recurrent branches of those arteries, with arteries passing to the gas- trocnemii, and, lastly, with the origin of the anterior and pos- terior tibial arteries: and these new large communicating branches were readily distinguished from others by their tortOous; course. “ It appears then, that it is those branches of the profunda, which accompany the sciatic nerve, that are the principal sup- porters of the new circulation. They were five in number, be- sides the two deep-seated arteries, which do not accompany the nerve.DISTRIBUTION OF THE ARTERIES, &C. 385'. at my particular request, he drew up the follow- ing statement; “ The external circumflex artery was considerably larger than usual for the supply of branches to the muscles on the fore- part of the thigh, but it had no branches for the new circula- tion. The obturator artery did not appear larger than usual, and although much pains were taken to trace any enlarged com- municating branches between the ischiatic arteries and profunda, yet no vessels capable of receiving coarse injection could be found.” In proof of what has been affirmed, I have subjoined the history of a case, published by my late Uncle: “ A patient with an aneurism was brought to St George’s Hospital. At this time the tumour was large, and extended' itself far down the arm; it had still a pulsation, and the pulse at the wrist was feeble and weak. The physicians and surgeons of the hospital, upon examining the case, were of the same opinion with Mr Fordyce*; they thought the tumour was situated too high up to attempt any operation, and advised only mild palliatives and anodynes to be given. After this, the swelling gradually increased, and its pulsation as gradually di- minished, so that at last only a tremulous motion could be observed ir it; the pulse at the wrist grew daily wetiker, and at last ceased entirely. In the end of November, or the beginning of December, tlie tumour began to rise in the middle, and at last bursting on the £9th of December, the patient died immediately of a profuse haemorrhage. “ Next day the'body was opened in presence o( all the phy- sicians and surgeons of the hospital. The axillary artery was • found to open into the large ancurismal sac, which extended above two-thirds down the arm. This sac was filled with a large lamellatcd polypous concretion, entirely of the same na- VOL. III. BbOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 386 “ When a Student, I made an experiment along with Mr Emmet, afterwards State Physician in Ireland, of tying up and cutting both carotidcs comjnimes of a dog, w’hich was mentioned then to the Students of Anatomy; and of which, an ac- 'count was afterwards published by Dr Emmet in Ireland, on the supposition, that such an operation might be useful to persons labouring under epi- lepsy and other disorders. “ In the year 1759, when I began to deliver the . whole course of lectures on Anatomy in this Uni- versity, I shewed to the Students, and continued to do so annually, that the humeral artery did not divide into its radial and ulnar branches, till it had got about an inch below the joint of the el- bow ; and, therefore, that the wound commonly made in the artery on bloodletting at the elbow, was made in the trunk of the humeral, and not in the radial artery, as Dr Wm. Hunter had sup- posed. tnrc as those generally found in large aneurisms of long stand- ing ; and along with it a quantity of fluid and grumous blood. The beginning of the sac seemed to be continued with the coats of the artery, but the rest of it to be formed of the neighbouring cellular membranes, &c. in the same manner as the sides of any common encysted tumour. The humeral artery run behind the mQ\\r\smd\ ioe, hill tras impcrviotis for about half an inch, im- mediatehf below where the axillary artery opened into the large .sac, its sides being grown together, as we found by making a hole into the artery below, and introducing a probe upwards, and then cutting open the vessel upon the probe till we came to the part where it was stopped."distribution of the arteries, &c. 387 “ To shew, in fact,that the humeral artery might be tied up without occasioning mortification, I mentioned, that in several cases of bastard aneu- rism, my Father had performed this operation with success; and, later than this period, I told them in my courses of lectures, that I had wit- nessed four such successful cases. “ To prove this still more evidently, I tied up in a pig, the trunk of the humeral artery, upwards of an inch above the elbow ; and, about a month thereafter, killed the pig, injected its arteries, and had a drawing and engraving of it made by the late Mr Thomas Donaldson, which I preserve, along with the preparation, in which the anas- tomosing vessels, somewhat enlarged, are distinct- ly seen. “ Soon after this, in the year 17^0, I received from my brother. Dr Donald Monro, Physician in London, the account of a case of true axillary aneurism, which I read then to the Philosophical Society of Edinburgh ; and, in order to render the description of it more intelligible to them, I directed a painter to take a sketch of the axillary vessels, from a table of them published by Dr Haller ; and, upon this, to engrave a figure of the aneurism, which was published by the Society in the next volume of their Transactions, in 1770. “ In this case, my brother found a hole in the axillary artery, leading into the aneiirismal sac: and, below this place, the sides of the bottom of the B b 2OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 888 axillary artery, or top of the humeral artery, had coalesced; owing, I suppose, to the pressure made on the artery by the aneurismal sac. “ Upon the above case, I used in my Lectures to make two observations, to-wit, “ That, in the first place. The arm, as well as the life of this person, might have been saved by a ligature of the subclavian or axillary artery ; and, in the next place. That such an operation might be practised in the case of an aneurism or wound of any artery of the superior extremities. “ After this, in the year 1/87, I sent to our In- firmary, a boy of twelve years of age, who had been wounded in the middle of his anterior femoral ar- tery, with a pen-knife, who was recommended to my care by Mr Wetherstone, Surgeon in Lauder. He was cured by tying up the trunk of that ar- tery ; and, very lately, I had the satisfaction of see- ing him in my house, stout in his limbs, and with- out a halt in his walk, or other sign of lameness. “ Still later, in the year 1797, a man about fifty years of age, with an aneurism, of the size of an English pint-bottle, in his left groin, was recom- mended to my care by Mr Paterson, an eminent surgeon in Berwick. I put this patient into the hands of Dr Wardrop, one of the best surgeons and operators in this city, who agreed with me, that an operation ought to be performed without delay ; but, unfortunately. Dr Wardrop was pre- vented from executing his purpose by other sur- geons, who did not suppose that the operationDISTRIBUTION OF THE ARTERIES, &C. 389 would be attended with success, and the patient died soon thereafter, by the bursting of the sac. I procured, and still preserve the aneurismal sac, which began at the top of the anterior femoral artery, immediately below where the external iliac, after sending off the epigastric artery, divides into its anterior and profunda branches. ** From a manuscript copy of my Lectures, which was taken in short-hand, in the winter 1770-1, by Mr Thorburn, the following passage is extracted : “ We are led from these facts, to make the ap- plication to other cases; and, particularly, I may allege, that there is much probability we should be able to save the arm or the leg by making ligatures upon their arteries^ near to their very beginnings ; for water, squirted into them, passes freely by their lateral communications to their lower parts. But the chance is somewhat less in the legs, as a greater size of member must be nourished by si- milar, but smaller vessels. In one case, which you will find in the Physical and Literary Essays, the sides of the humeral artery were found grown together, by the compression of an aneurismal sac, the lateral branches probably dilating as the aneu- rismal tumor formed and increased.” I should be extremely culpable, and at the same time unjust, did I not bestow the praise that is due to those distinguished surgeons, Messrs J. Hunter, Abernethy, Astley Cooper, and Freer, who, by their precepts and example, BbSOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 390 have contributed to the introduction of the new and improved method of treating aneurisms, Mr Astley Cooper has prosecuted this subject with his usual and laudable zeal, by making ex- periments on animals, which have proved many of the remarks of my Father, and have also thrown new light upon the subject. He has proved, that even the aorta itself may be taken up by ligature, in a sound animal, and that the blood still continues to be carried on in the posterior extremities * ; that the principal • “ Any great increase in diameter of the anastomosing vessels is but slowly produced, for I have injected a limb several weeks after the operation for popliteal aneurism, without being able to force the injection through communicating vessels into the parts below. To enlarge the vessels much, it is necessary that the limb should have been employed in active exertion. On account of the arteries not very readily enlarging, the limbs of those who have undergone the operation for aneurism, are for a considerable time weaker than natural. They feel the influence of cold more, are more disposed to ulcerate from slight causes, and when sores are produced, have diminished powers of restoration. On account of the languor of circulation and the diminished power of resisting the influence of low de- grees of heat, it is right, after the operation for aneurism, to clothe that limb much warmer than the other; for which pur- pose, a piece of flannel or a fleecy stocking should be applied, to prevent tlie sedative influence of cold. “ A man, who had undergone the operation for popliteal aneurism, complained in the evening of his leg being painful, and a dresser going through the ward, applied a lotion of the acetate of lead, and when the rags were removed on the follow- ing morning, the limb was found mortified.LIGATURES ON ARTERIES. 391 trufiks of the arteries may be taken up in succes-. sion in the same animal, by which the greater- share of'the blood is translated to the smaller anas- tomosing vessels and without producing any al- teration in the habits of the animal. Since the preceding observations upon the ef- fects of ligatures thrown around the arteries, were published by Mr Astley Cooper, he shewed me a preparation of a limb, in which the iliac artery had been tied for a large femo- ral aneurism, in the middle of the thigh, and in the same limb there were four other aneurisms. The man died of an aneurism which burst into B b 4 " Mr Campbell, a patient of Mr Curtis, Surgeon in White- chapel, underwent the operation for popliteal aneurism, at a time when the weather was extremely cold. In three nights after the operation, he said his foot was benumbed, and when it was examined, it was found to be of a blue colour, and quite cold. Frictions were immediately had recourse to ; first, with the hand only, and, after a time, with warm flannels, and the circulation was restored, although with considerable difficulty. “ When a ligature has been applied, it is some time before the artery below becomes obliterated. Mr Foster, Surgeon of Guy’s Hospital, has a drawing in his possession of a case of popliteal aneurism, for which the femoral artery was tied in Au- gust ; the man died in January following, and when the limb was injected, the femoral artery, below where the ligature had been applied, was found to have received a part of the injection by communicating vessels. * Vid. London Medico-Chir. Trans, vol. ii. p. 257.392 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. the abdomen, about thirteen weeks after the iliac artery had been tied ; and as the limb had been well injected, the anastomoses of the internal iliac with the femoral artery, and arteria profunda, were well displayed. The anastomosis between the internal iliac, and femoral artery, was by means of the internal and external pudic arteries along the penis, which ar- teries fully joined, and were considerably enlar- ged. The anastomosis with the profunda, was by the ischiatic artery on the gluteus maximus, and by a still larger branch, which passed from the ischiatic to the profunda on the sciatic nerve. The gluteal artery also freely anastomosed with the external circumflex artery, over the outer part of the ilium. The obturator artery, formed free anastomoses with the internal circumflex. The epigastric artery had its natural supply of blood cut olF by the ligature on the external iliac artery; the epigastric gave off the obturator, which joined freely with the lateral sacral artery of the internal iliac, and then the epigastric re- ceived its blood from the internal iliac, by the media of the lateral sacral and obturator arteries. . Before concluding, it may not be improper to add, that the slow and gradual expansion of the lateral anastomosing arteries, affords a satisfactory explanation of the coldness of the limb, which sometimes succeeds the operation for aneurism ;COURSE OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 393 suggests the propriety of the application of flannel, friction, and other means, which may tend to give vigour to the circulation of blood through the la- teral anastomosing branches; and also points out the necessity of avoiding such a posture of the limb, or other causes, which may retard or stop the flow of blood through the lateral anastomosing branches of the arteries. Sect. II. ' f » GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE DEVIATIONS FROM THE USUAL COURSE OF THE BLOODVESSELS ABOVE DESCRIBED. From the preceding statement respecting the irregularities in the distribution of the carotid ar- teries and their branches, it follows, 1st, That much danger may result from opening the wind- pipe, when the thyroid artery runs in the front of that canal. 2d, That as the carotides communes sometimes divide into external and internal caro- tids low in the neck, this might embarrass a surgeon w^ho was unacquainted with that fact in performing this operation for the carotic aneurism. The irregularities as to the distribution of the subclavian arteries, are more frequent than in any other part of the vascular system : and of these, the division of the humeral artery into its radialOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. S9^ and ulnar branches in the middle of the humerus> or In the axilla, is the most important. A surgeon, therefore, while operating for aneu- rism, should bear in mind the above irregularity ; as also, that a brunch of the humeral artery, as in fig. 1. of Plate xLiv., sometimes is situated im- mediately under the skin, and over the tendinous aponeurosis of the arm, and may be mistaken for a vein, or wounded in opening one of the subcu- taneous veins. Deviations from the common distribution of ar- teries, are more common in the inferior than in the superior extremities. The attention of the surgeon should be directed chiefly to the division of the femoral artery into the superficial femoral and profunda femoris, which, supposing the body to be erect, usual- ly takes place, about two inches beneath the crural arch. Sect. III. OBSERVATIONS ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. The lymphatic vessels are much more nume- rous than the arteries or veins, and very frequent- ly communicate with each other, and are connect- ed with several lymphatic glands in their progress to the heart.distribution of the nerves. 393 Many of the lymphatic vessels are buried in the fat and cellular membrane immediately under the skin, and accompany the subcutaneous veins; others are deep-seated, and follow the same course as the arteries. A knowledge of the course of these vessels points out the source and progress of many poi- sons which are received and propagated by ab- sorption, suggests the most efficacious means of eradicating these poisons, or of arresting their progress into the blood ; and in the case of local diseases, teaches the most efficacious means of ap- plying the antidote. Sect. IV. OBSERVATIONS UPON THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE . NERVES. Many of the nerves follow the same course as the branches of the arteries and veins. The nerves, in their course, are connected in three different ways ; 1st, The nerves are frequently conjoined at acute angles, or form plexuses; as in the axilla and loins. 2d, Nerves disposed in opposite directions are connected by their smaller branches, or the api- ces of these branches, forming networks j as whereI 396 . OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. the portio dura of the seventh pair joins with the second and third branches of the fifth pair. 3d, In certain parts of the body, the nerves en- ter a ganglion ; from the opposite side of which the nerves issue out, as at the junction of the sym- pathetic with the dorsal nerves. Muscles, which are subservient to very different purposes, viz. the flexor muscles, are supplied by the branches of the same nerves, which is intended to lessen the dan- ger which must otherwise have attended diseases or accidents. Thus,” (my Father has remarked,) “ let us suppose that two nerves are sufficient to supply the flexors and extensors of the fore-arm ; it is evi- dently better for us, that the one-half of each nerve goes to the flexors, and the other half to each of the extensors, than that the whole of the first nerve should have gone to the flexors, and the other half to the extensors. For if by acci- dent or disease, one of these nerves should be cut across, or lose its powers, we should on the first supposition, preserve one-half of the power both of flexion and extension, which would surely be preferable to our possessing fully the flexion, with- out any power of extension It may not be improper to add, that there is little or no reason to suppose, that the energy of one fibre of a nerve can directly affect that of a neighbouring or contiguous fibre, or that the ' • Vid. Nervous System, p. 46.GANGLIA OF THE NERVES. 397 sympathy of nerves can depend directly on their connection in their progress. I shall conclude this Chapter by a few obser- vations respecting the Ganglia of the Nerves. Ganglia are oblong bodies of an irregular form, which are connected with the great sympathetic nerve chiefly *. In some of the ganglia, there is a peculiar kind of cellular membrane, and also fat. The bulk of the ganglion exceeds very much that of all the nerves or bloodvessels which it re- ceives, which led Winslow f, Morgagni J, and also Wrisberg, to suppose, that in ganglia the different nervous filaments are intimately inter- mixed, and also that a new arrangement of the medullary substance takes places within them. The nerves to which the ganglia are attached, are distributed upon organs of involuntary mo- tion ; and though these are not under the domi- nion of the will, yet there is no peculiar me- chanism, no peculiarity in the muscular structure * Haller, speaking of the Sympathetic Nerves, has ob- served, “ Super omnes nervos ganglia sunt frequentissiraa, in. cervice quidem tria j in thorace, lumbis, ct pelvi tot, quot ner- vorum ex spinali medulla propagines intercostalis accepit: turn in cordis vicinia, sub diaphragmatc, circa arteriac cceliacae et me- sentericae originem, et circa renem passim in plexubus rctibiis.“ Element. Phys. t. iv. p. 202. + Exposit. Anat. J Vid. Morgagni, Advers. Anat.39& OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. of these parts, to account for that very remarkable circumstance ; and hence it has been concluded by Dr Johnston *, that the ganglions arc the instru- ments by which the motions of the heart and in- testines are to the latest period of animal life rendered uniformly involuntary. Ganglia have been considered by some authors, as being analogous to the brain in office f, as being sour- ces of nerves, which are distributed upon the in- voluntary organs, and as independent of the brain, being reservoirs of nervous power, which they are capable of dispensing after the communication with the brain has been cut off. The arguments which have been advanced in support of the above theory, are, 1st, That the organs of involuntary motion con- tinue to exercise their functions in cases of per- fect hemplegia; and it has been added, that without the interposition of ganglia, there must be a de- fect in the functions of the viscera of the tho- rax and abdomen, a loss of half their nervous power. * Vid. Essay on the use of Ganglions, page l6. + “ Ces tumeurs ganglioformes,” says Winslow, Expos. Anat. p. i62. 4to edition, " on ganglions, different plus ou moins en volume, en couleur, en consistence; ct on les peut re- garder coihme autant d'origincs ou dcs germes dispersees de cettc grande paire des nerfs sympathetiques, ct par consequent comrae autant des petits cerveaux.”GANGLIA OF THE NERVES, S9P 2d, As the heart continues to contract ih cases of perfect apoplexy, much longer than the muscles under the immediate dominion of the will. I shall not enter more at large into the theories which have been proposed respecting the use of the ganglia * ; a subject which, like the functions of the nervous system, is still involved in an ob- scurity, which the observations' and experiments of modern anatomists have not hitherto dissipated. The last observation I shall make respecting the course of the nerves, is, that we cannot from con- nection of-nerves explain the regular movements * The reader who wishes for further information re- specting the Ganglia, is referred to the following Au- thors : Vieussen’s Neurol. Univ. p. IGO. Willis, Cerebri Anat. Winslow, Traite d’Anat. complet. B.\5ithez, Nouveaux Elemens de' rHomme, tom. ii. p. 62. Monro’s Observations on the Nervous System. Walter, Etvas iiber die Hirnschadellehre, th. i. 1. IS. Haase, Cerebri Nervorumque Corp. Hum. Anat. re- pet. Lipsise 1781. Bichat, Anat. General, tom. i. Beil, Archiv. fur Phys. B. 7. st. 2. s. 219. Scarpa, de Nervor. Gangl. et Plexib. Mutin. 1779. Pfeffringer de Struc. Nerv. Argent. 17S2. Anat. et Physiol du Syst Nerv. en'general, et du Cer- veau en particulier, par Gall et Spvrzejn.400 OUTLINES OF ANATOMV. of our different organs, which are occasioned by stimuli. This proposition is obvious from the following circumstances: 1. Muscles, supplied by the nerves irritated, often do not act, but others at a distance. Thus, when the outside of the fore-arm is burnt, not the extensors, but the flexors of the fore-arm act, and remove it from the offending cause. 2. Muscles most connected by their nerves do not sympathise most. 3. Sympathy is not to be traced the reverse way. 4. Muscles supplied by intermediate nerves are at rest. 5. The same nerve irritated in different parts produces different motions. 6. The same nerve, gently and violently irri- tated, produces different motions. 7. The same nerve, accustomed to the stimulus^ acts less, or not at all. 8. Antagonist muscles receives nerves from the same roots. * 9. There are many sympathies, where a con- nection of nerves is not to be traced. 10. Many impulses affect the mind first. 11. Affections of the mind, without the presence of external objects, produce the same effects *. * As the late ingewieus Dr Whytt, in 1765, published a treatise on the sympathy and diseases of the nerves, in whichGANGLIA OF THE NERVES. 401 VOL. III. Cc Upon the whole, it appears; 1. That the ac- tions above mentioned cannot be accounted for on the yet well-known principles of mechanism. 2. Wc observe that the muscular fibre varies its operation according to the purpose to be ser- ved. That, for instance, when a muscular fibre is punctured, it vibrates, which is the fittest means of throwing off the offending cause ; that the alimen- tary canal, acted on gently by the food, performs a very complex peristaltic motion ; that the abdo- minal muscles act slowly and steadily in ex- pelling the contents of the rectum, but suddenly and convulsively in vomiting; that the blad- der of urine, from which there is a small outlet, performs a slow and uniform contraction in dis- charging its contents, whilst the heart contracts with a jerk. 3. The more we consider the various sponta- neous operations, the more fully we shall be con- vinced that they are the best calculated for the preservation and well-being of the animal *. many of the above arguments against the then common aecounta of the cause of the sympathy of nerves are mentioned, I think it necessary to observe, that I had delivered all the above ar-' guments in my course of lectures eight years before Dr Whytt printed on that subject, and three years before he wrote and de- livered lectures upon it.” * Vid. Monro's Nervous System, p. 100. & 101,''. «*-. V ro*\. . '.ftta-ir AiJOJfi#-’ Ik,-:- '» ' •; .!;’>ltj Jirifr .r }i ,ih ,t/r ' i^ rtV»iq’> -fT!drjitj.>5^: lo riX^cj ” m ^hi*‘f TpUiiyhjt^i' :-«ri ie4t 3^1 ?hi’ ) sV/ C! , t . >d ii ndk §hti/^: •1 Vuqifjkj ;rtj ui yt.'bw . ^ a;tU4«?p6^"?r ‘ a rf-SffV/ /. .nst/fif I'p'! ,1? rn* 1 yi'j j 3i,Ul ik>ii ’i •irjff ilfi *>111 1?J) jt‘J «^nc33:.| ^' vi»a uf. ,uu*ki'r' (lii./''I'i2»f| -T' ii -m %’ Sj,) fjljiuth It^ntn vin^Uify*! ,r’Jjs3-n •^’r Iri ' nfbgf’ • • UilicT ju* ij'(i ill <»liiv5i\V> biili ,l^.iun li/iinA'lI * AWwi' ij#i./^f!iril.|>uiiii 1«' u]i fi’.ioirir^i, t f:a '^'yk c >tme^q ■ . j Hit ' * JCthi iP^iiiiv . 91' jhc-H' >4.*l .^’ 1‘J lJfAK • '. rUi-t' :-.jl >‘*- ^ ^-valdi. JMds „ .* .M.;£uL;r i>A» i\/aci;t.y 4y#»tt •j^ * '■^ * ' V44> »i<i 'll HI ” **«*" iuj^^ ^.*- «. ,vv5?y «l.l 4fe» kjvi^n ,rrtf A lii ul||h#>rJii»*<jrio yn M'AUiKWUM •^^Ii4»*- ri4 ‘wwil «-ur»/ l^aiSi -..j, ,j +> 4i »rii*liir^4^ * i. *•• " T ' 5.^ .Wt 9k nH>1 «'04«wttt My * .-; W' ■ ■ A.' »PART XXIII. Cc2V I y ' -7^«S J 7' *• I * ‘-S %w If* * •^■- Vx ■X*:.' i*'*' '„<> r- - "-i •'^i I .vi^ * f 1-< i ■ ^^> r* ‘iv^ "■rf' -i>V» • ■'' r* ■•'■ '"' ■■"■'i.T^ I'-.tMWA’t) . « ■ *. *. • • \ * V - - r ■ ' J i ||l^< ■ J- ’ '. - .A ■'-1 -^•1 ‘ .fllkx Tfli'H'v,?*''‘A n,. ?rt3i' , n^’ ^ W»f I’ 'I * /I •j^!.' *.«► t," vi''» |#ij i*ar*»; • -■* .«•♦ •**»■ <.,• *<l» ,ji' ' -jiiir. .W ■• -> . ...jJa, I ^4 V ,7l 4fl|j^T'»l»rn<fen / .. *- (* ■ an. tyf . ..’'^♦f y »i^ '* »■ nlMt- - • - .. 'J. i ' ' '•■ •* ’■" ^ *««'•:■. •' TY F ^ ^ '*■ ‘ i-'iV*.’S^, •'^*^ * * .'^.y M* ' . - »4» - i 7'^ / ‘ * . , / i ii ■fl ■I’ 1 3CHAPTER I. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE SPINAL MARROW. As the Spinal Marrow and Brain are of a simi- lar structure, the organic derangements of these organs are very analogous. On account of the remarkable degree of symi- pathy and connection betwixt the spinal marrow and brain, diseases originating in the spinal mar- row, may be propagated to the brain, or vice •versa. The spinal marrow may suffer, not only from' violence directly applied, but also from a shock communicated to it, as by falling on the breech, knees, or even on the feet. A violent blow upon the spinal marrow, pro- duces very different effects, according to the part which is more immediately injured. A blow upon the neck, sometimes renders the arms paralytic. If the violence is inflicted on the loins, the bladder of urine, rectum, and inferior ex- tremities, and other parts upon which the nerves Cc3406 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. of the lower pa^t of the spinal marrow are distri- buted, become paralytic, which is often followed by a suppression of urine, nuitibness, and shrink- ing of the thigh. The spinal marrow may, like the brain, be 1 much injured by the pressure of extravasated blood, or by any other cause which diminishes the diameter of the spinal canal, as by inflamma- tion of the dura mater lining it, by exostoses, curvature of the spine, by fractures, or disloca- tions of the vertebrae. The spinal marrow sometimes becomes very hard, having a cartilaginous consistence, and the investing membranes of that place become very red and inflamed. ' Scrofulous tubercles grow from the spinal liiar- row. Dropsy may also be enumerated arhong the dis- eases of the sheath of the spinal marrow. , The dropsy of the spinal marrow is frequent- ly complicated with hydrocephalus, and some- times with an imperfection of the spinal pro- cesses of the vertebiae. In the latter case, there is sometimes a free communication between the spinal marrow and the head ; hence the tumour in the back becomes larger when the head is erect, but smaller considerably upon placing the head lower than the rest of the body.407 derangements of the nerves. CHAPTER II. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE NERVES. Wh are still much in the dark as to many of the organic derangements of the nerves. There are many diseases which seem to be con- nected with some derangements of the nerves, up- on the nature of which dissection throws no light, there being no visible derangement in any part of the nervous system. A nerve, when punctured, sometimes swells con- siderably, and for some extent; as when the cu- taneous nerve of the arm has been injured during venesection ; but in other cases, the swelling is circumscribed, and limited to a small part of a nerve ; thus a very evident tumour may be obser- ved, connected with the extremity of the sciatic nerve, after an amputation of the thigh. There is another and more rare kind of tumour of a nerve, which is attended by the most excru- ciating pain. This tumour is occasionally slow in C c 4 • IOUTLINES OF ANATOMY- 408 its growth, but at tjmes increases rapidly. Such tumours have distinct cysts,* and they contain blood ; and when divided, seem to be composed of a very thick viscid jelly, in which there are a few whiter fibres, which seem to be the continuation of the nervous fibres of the opposite extremities of the tumour. I examined with care a tumour of this descrip- tion, which was connected with the radial nerve of a lady, and caused such acute pain, not only in the tumour, but also through the whole member, that she readily submitted to its removal. The sore healed in about a month, when the tumour returned, and increased rapidly to a great size, from which a fungus grew out. The arm, therefore, was amputated. Two years afterwards, a tumour appeared over the left eye. On opening the head after the pa- tient’s death, the brain was found in a fungus state. The nerves sometimes shrink j as when we lose the sight of one of the eyes, the optic nerve of that eye becomes evidently smaller than that of the other. It may not be improper to add, that the nerves which have been cut through, if kept in contact, are frequentlys reunited by real nervous matter, as has been proved by the experiments of Arne- MAN, CrUICKSHANK*, FoNTANAf, MEYER^yand * Phil. Trans. 1795. p. 177- t Sur la Venin. de la Viipere, voU ii. X Bibliotheq. Germanique.DEK.ANGEMENtS OF THE NEIIVES. 409 Br Haighton’'^. Meyer, taking advantage of the observations of Professor Reil f, that the ni- tric acid dissolves the coats and cellular substance of the nerves, but not their medullary matter, dis- tinctly proved that the nerves are rejoined by real nervous matter. He divided the left sciatic nerve of an animal; the wound healed in a short time, and the animal regained the sensibility and power of moving its limb. Upon dissection, the divided nerve was immersed in the nitric acid, and was found reunited by real nervous matter. The nerves have also been said to inflame vio^ lently ; which inflammation is succeeded by sup- puration. Soemmering has made mention of what he calls Corruptio Nervi. “ Corruptus nervus gra- cilior fit, brevior, firmior, simul atque durior, se- miperlucidus, cartilaginis in modum, coloremque cinereum induit. Corrupto nervo pars, quaru adit, usui publico non amplius inservit • Phil. Trans. 1795, p. 190. t Exercit. Anat. de Struct. Nervi. + Vid. vol. ir. of liis book, De Corporis Humaai Fabric*/» V ,. i<* VC f‘ #. H[’ 'tO, irJJi ^i-.o;# 9^ rS'^ti^sih Uhm aitj inMihAt)^ ? imr i»^ '■'i- '^*^‘*^«?iyr<tT:i3wu| W^ ,-i? i ni^ D$jS'i^f _-; z%h Slii. < :^iiMiS|t'C0t)'/lMI : lyy'f^ ^iif.tfr r .^mCur rte V ' ‘w*A iiMri^ -ufa W^ml *fi s<^i9okn ‘ *■’ h^.ii -,-ii 5o!|dbn(.at it tilt. c«U ^1^4 *imna aifl t<i ioi>:»«cisf tt *4«muw ^ ^ij/it|i * 'W - ^ ^ - ie • -' .IKilJUWiiH twfrs k< f^'Ii jr»V/; vMi^jrrwO «tfr» “H tioimu ^,: i6itf^ ^^‘'*-'^lJ^^ 1/i^t»« •v*. I>»4v-» j >«ft>rwWvi|Hn r,T., ^ .j . ,i u>fi’iki^ :i/*t» , I*-. *v- Jt\ y\tn £iH ' •i .*v^- ..'J <)Hr^ .m/W"? t«'- ■« . ^ X- wsaoin^ Jsod^ ■ . - " .V :. ■ ■ .. '- - . ^;, •-. .' , . . V'.. 5v.; . ,:. «r '/•»:^ ' r <PART XXIV.’-i fcS<S,^*5 V' fr >a; »”> “1^ '' V '*^ T* « • 5'i<»rV‘ .» ;.*-. .4115 ■ •> - ^■‘•^r* ; .. . ... ■ .• ^ /X> J W •’. i , A»< ’•£ wrm^^MT '■•f." r#' j ■,r ^'•'.■ i^'. k< ^><(pir‘ #■ “ % ' ' i^*w 4 .am% ., ‘ •• - ^ n*T: <“ ■- ' ~‘ r. .tf vm dB »a : '5fA- % ♦ / f **l ’ll . f v; ttt#* :l jf lUi' ‘’^;i ^*>..>^^^ljjilipfli &•> ><...' --*■ ,, - -'iltofii/ tsiill J«l* ni ._;M^tAsl f-j4wu[7{*^ Iwm* U4Nli< r iv'9«> .M, • ' i“«- •*>*«^ >9 is# .1 i*tv ■ •■’f alfl ' -•';^.ll» X9 * ‘I#- ; )T- ”■ ■’■j4«<s*J.4>'-‘ ‘ «ii * Uin «4» ■*■ " - '..* .T'« ' - -• '• ■■"■ •«/ ■ 4( 413 ) *1 CHAPTER I. OF THE STATE OF THE OVARIA, UTERINE TUBES, AND UTERUS AT THE NINTH month of PREGNANCY. I * Sect. I. OF THE STATE OF THE OVARIA. Xn a former Chapter, it was observed that the rudiment of the foetus is derived from the ova- rium, which in consequence of impregnation, dif- fers materially from that of the virgin. A small rounded or oval-shaped body may be observed to project from some part of its surface ; which, being somewhat of a brown or straw co- lour, has been named corpus luteum. Upon dividing the corpus luteum, it is found to be very tender; of a pale straw colour, particu- larly towards its centre, where it is somewhat ' transparent \ in its circumference, irregular, andOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 414 encircled by bloodvessels, which shoot inwards to- wards the centre. In the case of twins, a corpus luteum is found in each ovarium, or two corpora lutea in one of the ovaria ; and in quadrupeds, the number of the young always corresponds with the number of the corpora lutea. Sect. II. OF THE STATE OF THE UTERINE TUBES AT THE NINTH MONTH. The uterine tubes do not pass horizontally out-* wards as in the virgin state, but are closely appli- ed to the uterus ; are also larger, redder, less con- voluted ; exhibit more distinctly a muscular struc- ture ; and the internal rugae are more distinct. Sect. III. OF THE STATE OF THE LIGAMENTS OF THE WOMB -AT THE NINTH MONTH. In consequence of the extension of the womb, ■ the broad ligament in a great measure disappears, for little more than its root remains.j OF THE WOMB AT THE NINTH JVfONTH. 415 ^ « • The round ligaments pass downwards on the fore-part of the body of the uterus, and are con- siderably larger and more vascular than in the virgin state. Sect. IV. OF THE STATE OF THE WOMB AT THE NINTH ' MONTH. The substance of the womb is unlike any other part of the animal body ; it is soft, loose in its tex- ture ; plastic, and readily impressed by any hard- er body with which it comes into contact. This laxity of texture seems to be connected with the large quantity of cellular substance, and the number and size of the bloodvessels and lym- phatics which are proper to it. The greater part of the substance of the uterus is composed of small muscular fibres, the course of which it is impos- sible to trace upon the outer surface of the womb, and these possess the distinguishing property of the muscular fibre a contractile power, which, according to Dr Hunter, is in some parts of the womb voluntary, but in others involuntary ; and in some places slow, but in others quick. Owing to the softness of the muscular structure of the womb, which is not put upon the stretch by the contained parts, the womb very readily changes its shape from a particular posture, the pressure of416' OUTLINES OF ANATOMY,' adjacent parts, or from the position of the foe- tus. The mouth of the pregnant womb is widely different in appearance from that of the unimpreg- nated womb. At the ninth month it is flat; and there are a number of cavities on its inner side, containing a viscid jelly, which plugs up complete- ly the mouth of the uterus. When delivery has commenced, this jelly is detached, and by extend- ing the mouth of the womb, facilitates labour. This viscid gluten is discharged along'with the liquor amnii, and exhibits a distinct cast of the lacunae of the orifice of the uterus, v/ithin which it had been lodged. The arteries of the uterus at the ninth month are very large and numerous, and freely commu- nicate with each other, and upon the inner side of the womb are remarkably tortuous. The veins of the womb follow the same course as the arteries ; are considerably larger than the arteries; and, on account of their great size, have been named by some anatomists, *cenous sinuses. The lymphatic vessels of the uterus increase as much as the bloodvessels of that organ in conse- quence of pregnancy, and are about the size of a common writing-pen ; very numerous, and form a plexus over the greater part of the substance of the womb. IOF THE GRAVID UTERUS. 417 u Sect. V. Dt’ THE POSITION OF THE GRAVID UTERUS* The gravid uterus displaces and pushes upwards the intestines and omentum, and is in immediate contact with the parietes of the abdomen. The gravid womb is placed obliquely ; and with the small or lower end, directed downwards and backwards, towards the ossa coccygis ; and its fun- dus, or upper and larger part, is turned forwards. Such is the general position of the womb ; but there is some difference as to the position of the womb even in the same individual in different preg- nancies. In a first pregnancy, the parietes of the abdo- men oppose a greater resistance to the extension of the womb, the axis of which is thereby placed more in a vertical direction ; whereas the abdo- minal parietes of a woman who has had several children, being more loose or relaxed, the belly becomes more prominent and pendulous, and the uterus does not ascend so high within the cavity • of the abdomen. The position of the womb is also regulated in some measure by the stature of the woman, and by the width of the pelvis. The uterus of very short women, on account of the smaller distance which intervenes between the pel- ' VOL. HI. D dOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 419 vis and abdomen, is placed more transversely tharr that of a taller woman ; and when the pelvis is small or distorted, it is capable of containing only a small portion of the gravid uterus. The gravid womb also commonly inclines more to one side than the other, especially in women who have borne several children, which gives rise to weakness, numbness, pain, cramps, oedema,, oc varicose veins of the limb of the same side. Sect. VI. OF THE MEMBRANES OR SECUNDINES AT THE NINTH MONTH. The placenta and membranes form a complete bag, which contains the foetus and liquor amnii. . At the ninth month, we meet with three mem- branes only y the amnion, chorion, and decidua. The membrane next the foetus, called amnion^ is very thin and pellucid ; but in texture firm, and not readily torn. It lines the placenta; is reflect- ed on the umbilical cord, and terminates at the navel; and is united to the chorion by means of a gelatinous substance. The membrane on the outer side of the amnion^ called choriuji, is thicker than the amnion in some places, nearly transparent, and, in the earlier sta--OF THE LIQUOR AMNII. 419 ges, exhibits a flocculent appearance, being cover- ed by a number of small vessels. The third membrane lines the uterus, and falls ‘ off at every delivery; and has hence been called decidua. It is very easily torn, though thicker than the amnion or chorion; and there are a num- ber of small vessels proper to it, which contain red blood. • Sect. VIL OF THE LIQUOR AMNII. THE fluid contained within the amnion, has beeii called liquor amnii. This fluid, which varies in quantity in different women, has no sensible degree of tenacity; is nearly transparent; has a slight yellow tint •, and sometimes reddish, from an admixture of a few drops of blood ; is to the taste salt, and is com- posed of Water, about - - - 98.8 Albumen ; muriate of soda; soda ; phos- phate of lime j lime, - ].2 100.0 In some cases, there is a small quantity of wa* ter between the chorion and amnion, which is com-^ monly discharged before the birth of the child. D d 2OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, 4-20 ' ■ Sect. VIII. OF THE NAVEL-STRING OR UMBILICAL CORD. The umbilical cord, the medium of connec- tion between the placenta and child, is not uniform as to thickness and length. It is generally thinnest near to the placenta, and about two feet long ; but in some cases does not exceed a foot, and in others is four or five feet long ; and sometimes makes two or three turns round the child’s neck. The umbilical cord con- sists of two arteries and a vein, and a thick jel- ly, which are enveloped by the chorion and am- nion. The arteries and vein of the cord are disposed in a spiral direction. In some very rare instan- ces there is only one artery. In some cases, the umbilical arteries are not dis- posed in the usual manner, but are for some way straight, and then form a sort of knot, one of the arteries being longer than the other. Owing to the thick jelly which envelopes the arteries aud vein of the umbilical cord, and the spiral course of its arteries, pressure, or the stretch- ing of the navel-string does not readily interrupt the flow of blood through its bloodvessels.421 PLACENTA OR AFTER-BIRTH. D d 3 Sect. IX. OF THE PLACENTA OR AFTER-BIRTH. The placenta is a flat organ; to the touch spon- gy ; in form nearly circular; and about an inch in thickness in its centre, when its vessels are dis- tended. The placenta becomes gradually thinner towards its circumference •, and, when fixed to the uterus, is concave next the child, and convex towards the womb. The surface of the placenta, which is at- tached to the womb, is very tender, and lobu- lated. The umbilical cord is not attached exactly to the centre of the placenta, but rather nearer to its edge ; and from the umbilical cord, the vessels spread out upon the surface of the placenta, from which they pass into its substance. The placenta is generally fixed to the fundus uteri. The large umbilical bloodvessels are disposed on that part of the placenta which is next the child; and on the side next the uterus, bloodvessels may be observed passing between the placenta and uterus.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 422 The placenta, when divided, seems to be com- posed chiefly of bloodvessels, which are distributed through it in all directions. By filling the vessels of the placenta, it becomes about two inches thick; and if the injection be thrown into the arteries of the mother, called uterine^ the injection fills only one-half of the placenta, as that organ consists of two distinct parts, which do not communicate with each other, and between which are cells that are filled by throwing a pe- netrating injection into the arteries or veins of the uterus. These foetal and maternal parts of the placen- ta may be separated from each other, by steeping it for some time in water, until a slight degree of putrefaction has begun. The structure of these distinct parts is not pre- cisely the same ; the portion called fcetal bears a strong resemblance to the lungs, and the arteries of that part terminate in the veins ; but in the maternal part cells are interposed between the smaller ramifications of the arteries and veins, and the cells of the whole placenta freely com- municate with each other.OF THE WOMB. I CHAPTER II. OF THE STATE OF THE WOMB IN THE EAR- LIER MONTHS OF PREGNANCY, About the end of the third month, the ovum may be distinctly seen within the womb. The ovum consists of the membranes which con- tain the fetus and liquor amnii. There are four membranes in the earlier months, the amnion, chorion, decidua, and decidua rejtexa. A part of the decidua is reflected, forming the fourth covering. Dr Hunter has particularly described this reflection *. D d 4 * It is a membrane of considerable thiclcness, and is some- times of a yellower colour than the decidua vera f. The ovum lies between a part of the decidua reflexa, both of which unite into one membrane at the edge of the placenta; or the decidua vera divides itself at the edge of the placenta into two laminae, i" If it did not lead to some risk of producing an erroneous opinion with regard to the formation of the decidua, I think it would be better to call the decidua vera, by the name of the decidua uteri ; and the decidua reflexa, by the name of the decidua choriL This would render it more easy, to acquir-k ■a clear idea of the whole membranes-OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 424 The chorion is considerably thicker in the ear- lier than in the more advanced stages of pregnan- cy, and is covered by flocculi of different lengths and thickness, which in a short time disappear, excepting in the upper part, where they contribute to form the placenta. one of wliich passes between the placenta and the inner surface of the uterus, and the other forms the decidua reflexa, which covers the outer surface of the chorion. The decidua envelop- ing the ovum, does not, however, merely cover the shaggy ves- ' sels of the chorion at their outward floating extremities, but aK so the whole of their external surface, as deep as the chorion. “ The chorion itself commonly appears transparent, and not covered by any layer of decidua immediately applied to it. It sometimes, ho%vever, although I believe very rarely, appears to be distinctly covered with a thin layer of decidua; and, there- fore, in those cases where it seems to be wanting, it may not improbably be supposed to be so very thin as to escape observa- tion. " What is now said, however, is to be considered as merely • conjectural. " Where the decidua reflexa is beginning to pass over the chorion, there is, at an early period of pregnancy, an angle formed between it and the decidua, which lines the uterus ; and liere the decidua is often extremely thin, and perforated with small openings, so as to look like a piece of lace. In proportion as pregnancy advances, the decidua reflexa becomes gradually thinner and thinner, so that, at the fourth month, it forms an extremely fine layer covering the chorion. “ It comes at the same time more closely in contact with the decidua, which lines that part of the uterus to which the placen- 1 ta is not fixed, till at length they adhere together • See Dr Hunter’s Anatomical Description of the Human Gravid Uterus find its contents ; published by Dr BAii,riE, p. 80. & 81,PROGRESS OF GRAVID UTERUS. 425 Between the chorion and amnion, which cover the umbilical cord, there is a bag of an oval form, filled by a fluid called *vesicula alba. The quantity of the liquor amnii, is propor- tionally greater in the first than in the latter months of pregnancy. In the earlier months, the umbilical cord is very short; at the period of birth it is commonly about two feet long. The urachus constitutes a part of the umbilical cord ; it consists of thin fibres which ascend from the fundus of the bladder, and which are inserted into the navel-string. The uterus rapidly attains an unusual size, in consequence of the determination of blood to it. The difference in the size of the uterus, is con- siderable in different women ; it depends on the size and number of the foetuses, and also on the quantity of liquor amnii. The uterus does not rise so much, as to be sen- sibly felt above the ossa pubis, till after the fourth month of pregnancy. The fundus uteri is in the first place distend- ed, and then the neck of the uterus almost disap- pears. The mouth of the pregnant uterus is directed backwards, so that the axis of the uterus corre- sponds with that of the pelvis. At the fourth month, the womb measures about five inches from the fundus to the beginning of its neck.426 OUTLINES or ANATOMY. At the sixth month, it extends about four inches above the pubis. At the eighth month, the uterus reaches half way between the navel and sternum ; and, at the ninth month, it reaches as far up as the ensiforra cartilage of the sternum. . The above measurements are not mathemati- cally correct; they vary a little, from the diffe- rences in the stature of different women, the size of the foetus, and the quantity of liquor amnii. ^ ‘ CHAPTER III. OF THE STATE OF THE FOETUS IN THE EAR- LIER MONTHS OF PREGNANCY. It has not yet been ascertained at what period the foetus is visible, and at what time the ovum reaches the womb. ' It is most probable that the ovum does not reach the womb until three or four weeks after conception. The ovum at first does not contain a visible foetus.PROGRESS OF FOETUS. 421 The human foetus has been described as being B line in length when first perceptible. v By the seventh week, the fcEtus has been stated to be equal to a bee in size *, and, about the eighth week, to be as long as a kidney-bean, and in form to resemble two ovals of unequal size, joined by a neck. Baron Haller, has bestowed great pains in order to discover the growth of the. foetus in utero. He has stated, that it increases during the first month to a bulk 300,000 times greater than its original size *, during the second month, the in- crease is forty-eight times the size it had at the end of the first; from which time, to the ninth month, there is at an average an increase of fifteen times for each month. The younger the foetus, the larger the ovum is, and the greater the proportion of the head to the trunk. Still the foetus does not increase in size in proportion to its age. In the second month, it has been said to grow more slowly, in the third more quickly, in the fourth more slowly ; but from the middle of the fourth month to the sixth it grows more rapidly; and between the sixth and ninth month, more slowly. The embryo in the first and second month, is a little bended. In the fourth and fifth, from the addition of its extremities, it seems folded up.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 428 After the second month, the head grows more, slowly. The face, in a small foetus, bears a small proportion to the brain-case. The foetus at first seems to have no neck. The*eyes appear at first like black circles: be- fore the third month, the eye-lids are either, open, or so thin, that the eye-ball shines through them. There are little pores in the situation of each ear about the ninth week; and the external ears are not complete until the fifth month. About the eighth week the nose appears. Two small apertures may be observed at first, and it is complete about the twelfth week. The mouth is large at first, and is visible about the seventh week, but not the lips ; they begin to be formed about the tenth week, and at the twelfth, are quite distinct. The organs of generation are manifest at the fourth month. In the fourth month, the foetus is about five inches long. In the fifth month, the foetus is about six or seven inches in length. In the sixth month, the foetus is eight or nine inches long, and perfect in its shape and forma- tion. In the seventh month, it is eleven inches. About the sixth week, the limbs begin to grow and appear like little buds. In the second month, they are a little elongated j and about the begin-PROGRESS OF FOETUS. 429 •i ning of the third month, or a little after, the fingers and toes are formed. Professor Soemmering has remarked, even in the foetus between the third and fourth month, the greatest difference in the thorax of the sexes, That , the male is not only longer and more conical, but much more prominent ih respect to the abdomen and pelvis, than the female. The female chest is not only shorter, but also wider above the fourth rib ; below, it is more contracted, and therefore less conical ; and it is also farther distant from the pelvis, as a greater space intervenes between the last rib, and spine of the os ilium. He observes. That there is also a difference in the form of the head ; the head of the male is larger, but less rounded ; the occiput, besides, is a little raised. On the other hand, the head of the female is smaller, and more rounded. The occiput is scarce- ly raised. He also observes. That the arms of the male are a little longer than those of the female ; and the scapulae are larger and more prominent. The inferior extremities of the male, according to Soemmering, are more contracted, being adap- ted to the narrow pelvis, and the thighs are more slender. At the full time, the foetus is about twenty- two inches long, and weighs from six to eight pounds.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. I 450 Till the sixth week, the belly of the foetus is in contact with the placenta. About the eighth week, the umbilical cord is nearly an inch long. CHAPTER IV. OF THE FOETUS IN UTERO IN THE NINTH MONTH OF PREGNANCY. Sect. I. OF THE POSITION OF THE FOETUS IN UTERO. HE foetus is laid in such a manner within the womb, as to occupy as little space as possible. The body is of an oval form, the head consti- tuting the one extremity of the oval, and the breech the other ; and the long axis measures about ten inches, the shorter between five and •six. Dr William Harvey has given the fol- lowing very beautiful and accurate description of the position of the foetus in utero. “ Ideoque in-POSITION OF THE FOETUS IN UTERO. 431 fans in utero ut plurimum rej^eritur, adductis ad abdomen genibus, flexis restrorsum cruribus, pe- dibus decussatis, manibusqiie sursum ad caput sublatis, quarum alteram circa tempora vel auriculas, alteram ad genam detinet; ubi ma- culae albae, tanquam confricationis vestigia, in cute cernuntur : spina in orbem flectitur, caput ad genua, incurvato collo, propendet. Tali membro- rum situ, qualem in somno per quietem quaerimus^ capite superne, facieque ut plurimum ad matws' spinam versa, embryo locator*.” ' Sect. II. OF THE PECULIARITIES AS TO STRUCTURE OF THE FOETUS. The skin of the foetus is besmeared by a white greasy substance, which is insoluble in alcohol, oil, or pure water, and forms a soap with alkalies. The skin is redder than that of the adult; and though there be a good deal of fat under the skin, there is very little fat between the muscles, or within the cavity of the abdomen. The most striking peculiarities of the foetus, are, the im. erfect state of its bones, the large size of all its glands, and of the nervous and vascular sys- tems. * Vid. G. Harveii Opera, vol. ii. p. 241.—4to.432 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. The bones of the foetus contain a much largeiT proportion of animal matter, than those of the adult, are of a grey colour, and the extremities of the long bones have a red tinge, from the number of bloodvessels proper to them. All the bones of the foetus are nearly uniform on their surfaces; whereas those of the adult, are very irregularly and deeply imprinted by the mus- cles. The bones of the foetus are filled by jelly in- stead of marrow. , The bones of the foetus are imperfect, and the greater number of them consists of several pieces; in each of which, there is a centre of ossification from wdiich fibres issue in different directions. The ossification does not go on with equal ra- pidity in all the bones. The ossification begins in the first place In the clavicles, ribs, vertebrae, and cylindrical bones, and then in the bones of the face and cranium. Each of the long bones consists of a middle shaft, an upper and under piece, which are not united to the middle piece until the period of puberty, and in each there is a centre of ossifica- tion. The ossification takes place in the flat bones from centres of ossification, and advances to the circumference of the bones. * Vid. Albinus, on the Bones of Children, and Nisbet* Osteology.BONES OF THE FOETUSi 433 The younger the embryo, the greater the pro- portion of the head to the rest of the body. The bones of the foetal cranium are united by membranes instead of sutures. The anterior and uppermost parts of the pieces composing the frontal bone, and the anterior and superior portions of the parietal bones, are unossi- fied at the period of birth : so that a quadrangular portion of the brain is covered by membrane on- ly ; and as a heaving is perceived at that place, it has been called fons pulsatilis, or bregma ; and the word anterior is added to distinguish it from an unossified portion at the back-part of the head, of a triangular form, situated where the sagittal and lambdoidal sutures are united ; this last has been called the posterior bregma. There is likewise an unossified portion at the fdre and also at the back-part of the pars squamosa of the temporal bone. The bones of the cranium of the foetus, bear a large proportion to those of the face, which are small, owing to the want of the sinuses and the teeth. The cavity of the thorax, is proportionally larger than in the adult; and, according to Pro- fessor SoEMMERiNci, is differently formed even at birth. The pelvis is proportionally smaller in the child at birth, and its shape is very different; the dis- tance between the ossa pubis and os sacrum, being greater than from side to side. VOL, III. E eOUTLINES or ANATOAiY. 4-34 Lastly, The ossification is generally sooner com- plete in the superior than in the inferior extremi- ties of the foetus. Of the Urnin, Organs of the Senses, and Nerves oj the Foetus in Utero. The brain of the child is proportionally larger find softer than that of the adult. The olfactory nerves are hollow. Of the Peculiarities of the eye of the Foetus. Tlie eye of the child at birth, differs materially from that of the adult. The cornea is thicker, more readily divided in- to layers, and rather more prominent. All the humours of the eye are less pellucid than in the adult. The aqueous humour is turbid. The pigmentum nigrum of the choroid coat is less fluid. Before birth, the pupil is obstructed by a mem- brane, called membrana pupillaris. The crystalline lens is of a spherical form, and the bloodvessels of the back-part of the capsule of the lens, admit the red globules of the blood. '£AR OF THE FOETUS. 435 Of the Peculiarities of the Par of the Fcetus. The ear of the foetus differs from that of the adult, in many respects. The meatus auditorius externus, is entirely car- tilaginous ; and the membrane of the drum, which is not so tense as in the adult, and more on a level with the side of the head, is fixed to a circle of bone. There are no mastoid processes in a child at birth, and the Eustachian tube is in part mem- branous. There is but little difference in the structure of the internal parts of the ear of the foetus and adult. The chain of bones in the foetus is proportional- ly larger. The cochlea and semicircular canals are also proportionally larger in the foetus, and the membranous canals included within the semi- circular canals, are more easily distinguished than in the adult *. Of the Thoracic Viscera of the Foetus. The thoracic viscera of the foetus, are very dif- ferent from those of the adult. The gland, called 'V, ^ * Vid. ScAnp/E Disquisit. Anat. de Auditu et Olfectu. Ti- rini, 1789.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 436 thy^nus^ lodged in the anterior mediastinum, is of considerable bulk and length in the foetus, and di- vides at its lower part into two lobes, and the sub- stance of it is soft, and exhibits somewhat of a lobulated appearance ; and when cut, a whitish liquor may be squeezed out from it. The bloodvessels of this gland are derived from the subclavian, vertebral, thyroid, and diaphrag- matic arteries. The heart of the foetus is very different from that of the adult in many respects ; it is of a co- nical form, and proportionally larger, and in a very young embryo seems to fill the greater part of the thorax. There is a passage of communication between the anterior and posterior auricles, called the fora- men ovale ; the size of which, is very different in foetuses of different ages. This passage between the auricles, is by no means direct; it is oblique, and in figure some- what resembles a crescent; and the valve of the foramen ovale is formed by a fold of the lining of the auricle, and its loose edge is turned towards the left auricle. • The blood from the right auricle readily opens this valve, but cannot flow back into the right auricle, for the refluent blood shuts the valve. The valve, called the Eustachian, situated at the mouth of the vena cava inferior, is more perfect and larger in the foetus, than in the adult.4S7 MAMM^ OF THE FOETUS, &C. Ee 3 The lungs of the fetus in utero, are small, dense, and firm, and bear a strong resemblance to the liver in colour and consistence, and sink in water. Their specific weight is to that of water, as 22 to 2J. Of the Mammcs of the Foetus. The mammae are large in proportion to the size of the body of the fetus, and contain a fluid, which may be pressed out from them. Of the Abdomen and its Contents. The abdomen of the fetus is conical towards the navel, proportionally larger, and also more prominent than that of the adult. The diaphragm of the fetus is much less con- cave towards the abdomen ; and hence the liver descends in the fetus, lower than the edge of the thorax. The stomach is more rounded, and its length is proportionally greater than in the adult. The larger omentum connected with the great- er curvature of the stomach, is placed more on the left side, and there is a much smaller quantity of fat connected with it. 'OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 438 The intestines, which have been described as being redder and proportionally longer than in the adult, are not provided with such large valvulae conniventes, and contain more or less of a soft sub- stance, of a dark green colour, called the meco- nium. The ligaments of the larger intestines are less apparent than in the adult, consequently the cells of these intestines are proportionally smaller. The appendix vermiformis, is at the bottom of the caput caecum coli, not at the side of it, as in the adult. Of the Assistant Chylopoetic Viscera. The liver of the child occupies a considerable share of the cavity of the abdomen, and is more equally divided into a right and left lobe, than in the adult. The umbilical vein passes from the navel in a duplicature of peritoneum, to the left branch of the vena portae, and a venous canal passes between the left branch of the vena portae and the vena cava inferior, called canalis venosus. The gall-bladder is filled by a green fluid, which, a short time before birth, becomes much darker in colour, and has been described as ha- ving a bitter taste. The pancreas is also of a large size in the foetus.ORGANS OF THE FOETUS. 43& Of the Organs of Urine and Generation of the Foetus. The kidneys of the foetus consist of distinct lobes. The renal glands are almost as large as the kidneys, somewhat triangular in form, flatten- ed, and are largely supplied with blood from the diaphragmatic, renal, and lumbar arteries. The corresponding veins terminate in the renal veins, or in the vena cava inferior. The pelvis of the foetus is proportionally much smaller than that of the adult ; and hence the bladder of urine, in a very yOung foetus, may be enumerated rather among the bowels of the ab- domen, than among those of the pelvis. The bladder of urine of the foetus is more of a conical form, and,the urethra takes its rise nearer to the lowest part of the bladder than in the adult. The fundus uteri and Fallopian tubes, are also placed much higher than in the adult. The uterus of the foetus, is of a prismatic form, and proportionally longer than'in the adult. The testes of the male, and the ovaria of the female, are lodged originally in the cavity of the abdomen, below the kidneys on the psoae muscles, to which they are connected by the peritoneum. - The shape and figure of the testis, when wdthin Ee4440 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. the abdomen, are much the same as within the scrotum. The epididymis is placed along the posterior edge of the testis, and is larger in proportion than in the adult. The younger the fcetus, the slighter the con- nection of the testes to the psoie muscles. The spermatic arteries take their rise from the aorta, a little below the renal arteries. The testes also receive their bloo4 by branches of the hypo- gastric artery, which ascend and pass close to the vas deferens. The veins of the testes are similar to those of the adult. The testes are connected by a ligament, which extends between the lower end of the testis and scrotum, which Mr J. Hunter calls gubermculum, which he has thus described : “ It is of a pyra- midal form, its large bulbous head upwards, and fixed at the lower end of the testis and epididymis, and its lower and slender extremity is ost in the cellular membrane of the scrotum This ligament, or gubernaculum, is fibrous, and provided with bloodvessels, The testes generally descend about the eighth month into the scrotum, but, ip some cases, stick in the groin. The passage through which the testes had passed, remains open in some cases. ■ Vid. Observations on certain parts of the Animal Economy^ H^ge 6.OBSERVATIONS'UPON THE OVARIA. 441 It may not be improper to add, with respect to the organs of generation, that the prepuce of the penis is proportionally longer, and that of the fe- male clitoris, is larger, in the foetus than in the adult, which has sometimes led to mistakes re- specting the sex of the infant. The extremities of the foetus are, in proportion to its head and trunk, smaller in proportion than in the adult. CHAPTER V, Sect, I. OBSERVATIONS UPON THE OVARIA, It has been already remarked, that the rudiment of the foetus is derived from the ovarium ; but it is not certain whether a fluid or a solid substance, shaped like an egg, be formed within the ovarium, nor do we know at what period in women * that • * Vid. the Experiments of Mr Cuujckshank on Rabbits, j-ead befor® the Royal Society of London, March 23, 1797*442 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. which is essential to impregnation passes into the womb. Sect. II. OF THE MANNER IN WHICH THE BLOOD OF THE FOETUS IS CIRCULATED. The economy of the foetus is very different from that of the adult. The functions of circulation and respiration have in the full grown person a mutual relation and de- pendence upon each other. The circulation of the blood of the foetus in utero is adapted to the state of the lungs; the foetus does not breathe, and a very small portion of blood passes through these : It is diverted from the lungs by the foramen ovale and canalis arteriosus. The foetus is attached to the mother by means of the navel-string, and placenta. The navel-string is composed of two arteries and a vein, which, with a quantity of jelly, are inclosed by the membranes, called chorion and am- nion ; and the flow of blood through these arte- ries of the navel-string cannot readily be inter- rupted either by pressure, or by stretching of the cord. By means of the umbilical vein, which takes its rise from the interior part of the placenta, by many branches, the blood is returned to the bodyCIRCULATION IN THE FOETUS. 443 •of the child. This vein enters at the navel of the child; ascends in a fold of the peritoneum be- hind the recti muscles, to the anterior extremity of the fossa umbilicalis of the liver-; it passes along half that fissure ; gives branches to both lobes of the liver, and terminates in the left branch of the vena portarum, from which a part of its contents flows into the vena cava inferior by the canalis venosus. The blood of the vena cava inferior, which di- vides into two branches, flows into both auri- cles. The greater share of it passes into the left auricle, through the foramen ovale by the me- dium of the larger branch of the inferior vena cava. From the left auricle, the blood flows into the left ventricle ; and by the muscular contraction of that organ, it is propelled into the aorta and its several branches. It has been already observed, that, on account of the peculiar state of the lungs of the foetus, there were two direct passages, by which the blood is diverted from the lungs. If there had existed only one passage, the auricles and ventricle's of the right and left sides of the heart must have transmitted unequal quantities of blood. If the foramen ovale had been awanting, the right side of the heart must have received the whole of the blood, and the left side of the heart only that smaller proportion of the blood which had passedOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. through the lungs; whereas supposing the fora- men ovale, canalis arteriosus and pulmonary arte-, ry to have transmitted equal quantities of the blood, the same proportion of blood passes in the same time through both auricles and ventricles of the heart; the purpose of which is obvious, as af- ter birth they are intended to transmit equal quan- tities of blood. Hence, too, in consequence of the existence of two passages, both auricles and both ventricles re- ceive blood, which has passed through the system of the mother, and has undergone the necessary changes. There is considerable difficulty in explaining, why the umbilical vein is connected with the ve- na portarum, and not directly with the vena cava, and also why the canalis venosus is of smaller diameter than the umbilical vein, and does not cor- respond with both umbilical arteries. The umbilical vein probably is connected to the vena portarum, in order that its contents may be more equally divided between the two princi- pal veins, the vena cava and vena portarum. If the whole of the blood had gone to the vena por- tarum, the liver could not well have transmitted it; and if the whole had gone to the vena cava, the liver would not have been prepared for the in- creased quantity of blood passing into the coeliac and mesenteric arteries, when a ligature is thrown around the umbilical arteries after birth. Ano- ther reason may be, that the umbilical vein pro-OF THE LUNGS OF THE FOETUS. 445 ' bably conveys to the foetus the blood, or part of the blood, from the aorta of the mother, which has undergone a great change by passing through her lungs, and which may have the same effect on the liver, which the blood of the hepatic artery has after birth. After delivery, the foramen ovale and canalis arteriosus are commonly shut, for which it is dif- ficult to assign a satisfactory reason. SficT. in.' OBSERVATIONS ON THE LUNGS OF THE FOETUS. THE lungs of the foetus resemble the liver of the adult in consistence, and sink in water. But though the lungs do not sink in water, it is not certain that a child has been born alive, and had breathed, as air may have gotten into the lungs during the taking them out from the body, or may perhaps be generated by putrefaction, or may have been designedly thrown into the lungs. Dr William Hunter, in a paper in the sixth volume of his Lrondon Medical Observations and Inquiries, which does no less honour to his heart than to his head, has explained at great length the uncertainty of the signs of murder in the case of concealed labour ; from which very instructive paper the following short extract has been made:44S OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. In suspicious cases, how far may we conclude that the child was born alive, and probably mur- dered by its mother, if the lungs swim in water ? “ First, We may be assured that they contain air. Then we are to find out if that air be gene- rated by putrefaction. “ Secondly, To determine this question, we are to examine the other internal parts, to see if they be emphysematous or contain air ; and wc must examine the appearance of the air-bubbles in the lungs with particular attention. If the air which is in them be that of respiration, the air- bubbles will hardly be visible to the naked eye ; but if the air-bubbles be large, or if they run in lines along the fissures between the component h- buli of the lungs, the air is certainly emphysema- tous, and not air which had been taken in by breath- ing. “ Thirdly, If the air in the lungs be found to be contained in the natural air-vesicles, and to have the appearance of air received into them by breath- ing, let us next find out if that air was not per- haps blown into the lungs after the death of the infant. It is so generally known that a child, born apparently dead, may be brought to life by inflating its lungs, that the mother herself, or some other person, might have tried the experiment. It might even have been done with a most diabo- lical intention of bringing about the condemnation ©f the mother.”- DP THE LUNGS OF THE FOETUS, 447 In a subsequent page, he has added ; “ If in the case of a concealed birth, it be clearly made out that the child had breathed, may we infer that it was murdered ? Certainly not. It is certainly a circumstance, like the last, which amounts only to suspicion. To prove this important truth to the satisfaction of the reader, it may be thought fit to assert the following facts, which I know from experience to be true, and which will be confirmed by every person who has been much employed in midwifery. “ 1. If a child makes but one gasp, and instant- ly dies, the lungs will swim in water as readily as if it breathed longer, and had then been strang- led. “ 2. A child will very commonly breathe as soon as its mouth is born, or protruded from the mother, and in that case may lose its life before its body be born; especially when there happens to be a considerable interval of time between what we may call the birth of the child’s head, and the protrusion of its body. And if this may happen where the best assistance is at hand, it is still more likely to happen when there is none ; that is, where the woman is delivered by herself. “ 3. We frequently see children born, who, from circumstances in their constitution, or in the na- ture of the labour, are but barely alive ; and after breathing a minute or two, or an hour or ttvo, die in spite of all our attention. And why may notOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 448 that misfortune happen to a woman who is brought to bed by herself? “ 4. Sometimes a child is born so weak, that if it be left to itself, after breathing or sobbing, it might probably die, yet may be roused to life by blowing into its lungs, applying warmth and vo- latiles, rubbing it, &-c. &-c. But in the cases which we have been considering, such means of saving life are not to be expected. “ 5. When a woman is delivered by herself, a strong child may be born perfectly alive, and die in a very few minutes for want of breath ; either by being upon its face in a pool made by the na- tural discharges, or upon wet clothes ; or by the wet things over it collapsing and excluding air, or drawn close to its mouth and nose by the suction of breathing. An unhappy woman, delivered by herself, distracted in her mind, and exhausted in her body, will not have strength or recollection enough to fly instantly to the relief of the child.” Sect. IV. OF THE NUTRITION OF THE FOETUS. Upon this subject, there have been very differ- ent opinions. 1. The older anatomists Were of opinion, that the vessels of the mother and child directly com-449 NUTRITION OF THE FOETUS. municated with each other by anastomoses, and thus that the child was nourished; but this opi- nion does not rest upon the solid foundation of in- duction from fact, because it has been fully ascer- tained that there is no immediate communication between the foetal and maternal portions of the placenta. 2. The nourishment of the foetus has been sup- posed to be absorbed by the veins of the placenta, from the blood effused from the placenta into its cells by the uterine arteries. 3. ScHREGER has ptoposed a modification of the last-mentioned hypothesis. He supposes-that by the uterine arteries seruln is secreted, and discharged into the cells of the placenta, which is absorbed by the lymphatic ves- sels of the placenta and umbilical cord. This ingenious theory rests upon an alleged ex- istence of lymphatic vessels in the placenta and umbilical cord ; of the existence of which there can be no doubt, as several authors of credit, Mec- kel, Waltherus, Ludwig, Mascagni, Wris- BERG and Reuss, have described them, 4. The foetus has by some authors been supposed to swallow the liquor amnii, and to derive its nou- rishment from it. But as full grown and healthy foetuses have been born, and with the mouth closed, it follows, that the liquor amnii had not been sw'allowed; and besides, the liquor amnii is secreted by the ves- VOL. III. . . F f• OUTLINES or ANATOMY. sets of the foetus itself; as is evident from the analogical fact, that by injecting the vessels of the calf, we fill the vessels of the chorion from which the liquor amnii is derived. 5. It is probable, that the nutrition of the foe- tus is primarily or solely conveyed to it by the veins of the umbilical cord, whether we suppose these to be red or lymphatic* Sect. V* .OBSERVATIONS ON THE FORMATION AND USE OF THE PLACENTA. / The placenta, which consists of a foetal and maternal part, is formed by the junction of a por- tion of the filamentous substance of the chorion, with the plexus of vessels at the fundus uteri. This seems probable, by their being originally no placenta, by the decay of the filamentous sub- stance of the chorion, excepting that part of it which is attached to the fundus uteri, and also from analogy. In the cow, there are a number of glands on the inner surface of the uterus, from which a? milky liquor may be squeezed out; in these, there are excavations, into which the vessels of the cho- rion insinuate themselves ; thus the placentulae are formed. These placentulce may readily be sepa-of tH£ WDM3 AND LIQUOR AMNlt. 451 ' tated into two parts ; between which, there is no communication by a continuity of visible ves- sels. The placenta produces. upon the blood of the foetus the same change as the lungs of the adult, and it is also a source of nourishment \ fo£ the foetus cannot be supposed to generate materials for its own nourishment. Sect. VL OBSERVATIONS UPON THE WOMB, AND THE LIQUOR AMNlL There is no part of the human frame> which so rapidly increases in bulk as the gravid womb j and this expansion of the womb is not the mere effect of the distention of its parietes; because these, instead of becoming gradually thinner, as the womb increases in bulk, become progressively thicker. The size of the bloodvessels and lym- phatics corresponds with the increased magnitude of the womb. The great bulk of the gravid womb sufficiently explains many of the symptoms which attend pregnancy, which are merely the effect of pres- sure ; the pregnant womb, for instance, presses upon the bladder, causing frequent calls to make urine i the pregnant womb, pressing upon the F fgOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. • 452 r nerves and bloodvessels of the pelvis, occasions .cramps, oedema, and varix of the veins of the legs. ■ Many pregnant women also have occasionally considerable pain in the groins, which is probably owing in part to the stretching of the round liga- ments of the womb. The gravid womb contains a quantity of a wa- tery fluid, named the liquor amnii^ by which the womb is prevented from pressing unequally upon the body of the child, which expands more equal- ly in all its dimensions. This watery fluid also renders the pressure of the foetus on the body of the mother more equal.. The foetus is expelled from the womb by the combined actions of the abdominal muscles and womb; which latter Dr William Harvey in- forms us he had seen in a quadruped, and which he has described as a motus undosus. jPART XXV. Ff S( 4>55 ) CHAPTER L <0F THE MALCONFORMATIONS, AND ORGA NIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE FOETUS. THE limits of these Outlines compel me to re- duce my observations on the malconformations and organic derangements of the foetus within a very narrow compass; a circumstance which I regret the less, as those gentlemen for whose use these Volumes are chiefly designed, enjoy the ad- vantage of having these several subjects discussed in a very able manner, and at great length, by my colleague Dr Hamilton, Professor of' Mid- wifery. I propose to enumerate very briefly *, the more frequent, and therefore more important deviations from the natural structure, the consequence either of malconformation or disease ; specimens of the Ff 4, * The reader who wishes to gain very full inforftiation on Monsters, should consult Licetus de Monstris.456 OUTLINES ofWatomy. greater number of which are contained either in the Museum presented by my Father to the Uni- versity, or in that belonging to myself. Sect. I. OF IMPERFECTIONS IN THE SKELETON OF THE FOETUS. There is no part of the skeleton which is so fre- quently imperfect as the skuH. The whole upper part of the skull is sometimes awanting *. I have observed, in different insta,nces, particu- lar spots of the skull unossified, and especially in children born with hydrocephalus. In a few cases, only the os occipitis is imper- fect, and there is a large circular opening in it, through which the membranes of the brain con- taining water are in some instances protruded, forming a large pendulous tumour from the back- part of the head. The palatine processes of the superior maxil- lary bone are frequently disunited, and this is sometimes connected with the imperfect forma- tion of these bones, and with fissure or fissures of * Vid. Monro’s Nervous System. - »IMPERFECTIONS OF BONES OF FOETUS. A>57 the upper lip ; and in the case of two fissures, there is sometimes a loss of substance. The spine of the child is sometimes imperfect, the spinous processes of two or more of the ver- tebrae being awanting. ' This imperfection sometimes exists in the ver- tebrae of the neck, sometimes in those of the back, but most commonly in those of the loins. ' In these circumstances, a soft tumour, of a brown colour, and with an evident fluctuation in it, may be observed over the spine, which commonly bursts in a few weeks, discharges a quantity of a watery fluid, and in a short time afterwards the child dies. ; ■>' , I have examined such tumours, and have ob- served a number of small nerves distributed over the inner surface of the tumour. In some cases, the lower end of the spinal mar- row is protruded. ' Many children are born rickety, and more or less distorted. The distortion is on many occasions limited to the legs and feet. > Many children are born with the feet and toes turned inwards, or with the malcon format ion cal- led club-foot. In this case, the deformity js owing chiefly to the too great rotation inwards of the os naviculare ' ppon the astragalus.458 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. Sect. II. OF MALCONFORMATION OF THE BRAIN AND OR- GANS OF THE SENSES. Many instances have occurred, in which the hrain has been imperfectly formed ; in these we generally meet with one or two projections of an irregular form. Three cases of the above kind have been de- scribed by my Father in his book, entitled, Obser~ vat ions on the Nervous System. Children, when born, or a few days after birth, are sometimes afflicted by the purulent ophthalmy, * which, if neglected, sometimes occasions blind- ness Children are sometimes born with a cataract in one or both eyes. One case is on record, of a child born both blind and deaf, and of course deriving all its knowledge of external objects from the senses of touch, taste, and smell j-; which senses were in that unfortu- nate child remarkably acute. * Vid. Ware’s excellent account of the Purulent Opli- thalmy of Children. t Vid. Mr Dugald Stewart’s Account of a Boy, born Blind and Deaf. Trans, of R. S. Edin. vol, vii.MALCONFORMATION OF THE HEART. 459 Some children are born‘deaf from the meatus auditorius externus being awanting. The fraenum linguae is sometimes too short, or it is attached to the tongue too far forwards, and sometimes it is too long. In these cases, the-’ child cannot suck well, nor can it in after life speak distinctly. Purple patches are often observed on the skin of, children at birth. They are of two kinds ; the first may be called blemishes'of a red colour^ and are not elevated ; the second is of a dark purple colour, largely sup- plied with bloodvessels, and occasionally discharge blood. Sect. III. OF MALCONFORMATION OF THE HEART. Deviations from the natural structure of the heart of very different descriptions sometimes oc- cur. The 1st, and most frequent, is that in which the foramen ovale remains open, by which the venous and arterial blood are mixed. 2d, The foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus, in a few cases continue open. 3d, In a few cases, the ventricles of the heart communicate with eaqh other.46’0 ' ■ OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. ‘ 4th, The aorta sometimes takes its rise from both ventricles of the heart. The 5th kind of malconformation is extremely rare ; in this, the pulmonary artery is impervious at its origin, and but a small quantity of blood flows into it by a retrograde action of the canalis arteriosus; which, to make use of the language of Dr Wm. Hunter, who has described this mal- conformation, instead of going backward as a con- tinuation of the trunk of the pulmonary artery, it began from the left branch of that artery, ris- ing upwards and forw^ards to its termination in the curvature of the aorta, nearly under or opposite to the left subclavian ; it had carried the blood., from the aorta to the pulmonary artery, and there- fore took the appearance of a branch of the aorta, rather than that of the pulmonary artery. Upon opening the right ventricle, it appeared to be almost solid flesh, and hardly any of the cavity remained open. It was therefore very plain, that there had been no circulation of blood through the right ventricle. The returning blood of both cavae, had passed through the foramen' ovale and left ventricle into the aorta, from which, by the canalis arteriosus, a small portion had been conveyed by a retrograde motion into the left branch of the pulmonary artery, and thence, no doubt, through the whole, to receive the benefit of respiration. This species of malconformation, is still more unfrequent than the preceding, and has only beenMALCONFORMATION OF THE HEART. ‘ 46l described by Mr Wilson, teacher of anatomy in London The heart resembled that of an amphibious animal, and consisted only of one auricle and one ventricle ; and, from the latter, a large artery was derived, which ascended into the chest, where it divided into two branches ; the one of which, was bent like the arch of the aorta, and the other was r distributed upon the lungs ; and from the lungs, the blood was returned by two veins which joined the vena cava superior, and entered the heart along with it. ■ The last species of malconformation, is that in which the mitral valve is imperfect, leaving mere- ly a small opening between the left auricle and ventricle. This kind of malconformation has been particularly described by Mr Allan Burns. He has observed, “ I have only seen three cases of this kind, in two of them, the mitral valve, instead of being formed of two flaps, presented only the appearance of a septum, stretching across the opening from the auricle into the ventricle, having in the centre an aperture of larger or smaller size, through which the blood passed from the one cavity into the other f.” * Phil. Trans. t Burns, oh the Diseases of the Heart.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. A62 Sect. IV. OF IMPERFECTIONS AS TO THE FORMATION OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. Imperfections of the Alimentary Canal, are not unfrequent. A preternatural membrane sometimes extends across the mouth. Imperfections of a part of the intestinal canal are not uncommon, and especially those of the in- tcstinum, commonly named rectum. The first and most common malcon formation, is that in which the rectum is covered by the com- mon teguments, or by a membrane of considerable thickness. In some such cases, a swelling is perceptible, where the rectum should form the anus, which feels soft when pressed ; and on plunging a lancet into the prominent tumour, the meconium is dis- charged. This unnatural membrane is sometimes so thin, that the colour of the meconium shining through it is distinguishable *, but sometimes it is hard and thick, with a livid mark in its centre. There is a variety of this malconformation mentioned by Dr Wrisberg, in which the rec- tum terminated in a kind of cul de sac.ALIMENTARY CANAL OF FOETUS. 463 In the second species, the membrane which ob- structs the rectum, instead of being situated ex- ternally, is internal, and may be felt by intro- ducing the finger into the rectum, especially when the child cries, as it yields to the impulse of the liquid meconium contained within the rec- tum. This membrane is in some examples thin, but in others of considerable thickness; and has been said by Trioen *, to be in some instances as hard as horn. This cause of obstruction cannot in all instan- ces be removed ; as though a perforation be made through the obstructing membrane, the rectum remains constricted. The third species of malconformation, is by no means so frequent as the first, as it proceeds from the unnatural contraction of the rectum. I have seen the rectum contracted to one-third «f its natural diameter, so that the meconium passed with great difficulty through it, or not at all; and the child dies in consequence of the ac- cumulation of the excrement within the intes- tines. This malconformation may in some cases be re- moved, by dilating the contracted rectum by a bougie ; and it is necessary to use the bougie for a considerable time, lest the contraction should not be completely removed, or should return. * Vid. Obs. Med. Chir. p. 60.4)64, .• OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, ' *• - In some cases, the rectum has been complete-* ly obliterated, and its opposite sides have been united. f In some such cases, the anus seems exteriorly well formed, but in others there is no appearance of an anus. > Jessen has related a very marked case of the above description. A girl was born with the anus well formed exteriorly. On introducing a probe into the opening, a great resistance was felt. A puncture was made, which did not.procure an eva-, cuation of the meconium, ' The child died sixteen days after its birth. On opening the body, we are informed, “ Rectum in- testinum bis lateribus concreverat, bis orbiculari intersepiebatur membrana 1/2 the fourth species, the rectum terminates in the bladder of urine, urethra, vagina, or womb, or sometimes there is one opening into the bladder, and another into the vagina. ' In the Museum of Edinburgh, there are three instances of this description, which proved fatal to the children in a few days the rectum, which was so much contracted as to prevent the free pas- sage to the meconium, opened into the lower part of the bladder. ' But in a case related byEiAjANi*, a child with such a malconformation lived for three 1 * Vid. ScHENCKir, Obs- Med. Lib. iii. t Vid. Flajani, Observ. dc Chirurg. tora. iv.AtiMENTARY CANAL OF FOETUS. 465 months, during which the meconium was voided along with the urine. On opening the body, the colon, and the greater part of the intestines, appeared very much distend- ed, and filled with solid excrements. The rectum was three inches in length, and ended: in a canal four inches long, which passed under the prostate gland, and opened into the membranous part of ‘ the urethra. At the place of the insertion of the canal, there was a cherry-stone, which the child had swallowed, and which had prevented the pas- sage of the excrement through the urethra. Fif th, The rectum, in a few very rare cases, has terminated in the vagina, and the faeces are dis- charged by the vagina. .The opening into the vagina is commonly so much contracted, that the child lives only for a few days, on account of the retention of the faeces. But some have lived for some years. Van Swieten * has related the history of a young woman, who had such a malconformw- tion. Benivenius f has described the case of a wo- man, who discharged her faeces by the vagina for sixteen years. * Vid. Comment, in Boerhaave, Aph. 1340. t Vid. Obs. Med. cap. 86. ' Gg VOL. III.466 OUTLINES OP ANATOMY. SLx'lh, The rectum is sometimes entirely awant- ] ing, and the colon is closed at its lower extremity,' and ends in a blind sac In some such cases, we observe a mark of anus, but in others no anus. In some cases, the intestines open upon some part of the parietes of the abdomen, and some- times at the navel. Mery has described a case, in which there was an aperture at the navel, in which the colon ter- minated f. Cases have been described by Littre and Pe- tit, where the colon and rectum were wanting: It has been proposed in this case by Van Swie- ten, where an attempt to form an artificial anus has failed, to open the abdomen, in order to pro- cure a passage for the fasces. But much danger must attend such an operation ; besides the surgeon is without a guide to direct him. Sometimes the colon ends in a kind of blind sac, about an inch from the rectum,’ and the rec- tum sometimes also forms a blind sac, which is w quite distinct, and unconnected with the colon. A case of this kind has been related in the first volumeof the Memoirs of the Academy of Surgery, in which the patient was cured by the introduction • Vid. Ruysch, Advcr. Anat. decad. ii. p. 45.; also Ja- mieson, Edinb. Med. Essays, vol. iv. I Vid. Hist, de I’Acad, des Scien. an 1700, p. 40.alimentary canal of foetus. 467 of a trocar, which reached the place in which the meconium had been accumulated. LiEutaud has described a case, where the rec- tum was entirely wanting, and in which the ex- tremity of the colon was much contracted, and as if bound by a cord. Seventh, Mr De La Faye* has described two cases in which the anus was not shut up ; there was an opening in the middle of the os sacrum* which was capable of admitting the finger. In one of the children, a portion of the intestines passed through this opening, and formed a kind of hernia. Eighth, There is still another malconformation which has been thus described by Mr Burns f. The rectum, instead of terminating at the usual place, perforated the posterior ^wall of the va- gina ; then, occupying the canal of the vagina, it passed through the vulva, and projected about an inch beyond the labia pudendi, bearing a distinct resemblance to an imperfectly formed penis. It was of considerable size, possessing a writhing motion, and freely discharging meconium by an orifice situated at its apex.” t * Vid. his Principcs de Chlmrg. ^ Vid. Edinb. Med. and Siirg. Journal, vol. i. p. IS7.0UTLINES OF ANATOMY. 468 Sect. V. OF TRANSPOSITIONS OF THE VISCERA. f Transpositions of the Viscera are by no- means frequent. The heart is sometimes situated on the right side of the body. The spleen, and sigmoid flexure of the colon, are sometimes placed on the right side, and the caput caicum coli on the left side. Sect. VI. OF THE ORGANIC DISEASES OF CHILDREN^ Children, soon after birth, are subject to seve- ral of the cutaneous diseases which have been already described, particularly to the red and yel- low gum, to aphthae, to excoriations behind the ears, and sometimes to erysipelas. The foetus in utero, is sometimes affected with the lues venerea, and sometimes with small-pox. The lues venerea, may be communicated to the child while it is passing through the vagina of adiseases Ot CHILDREN AT BIRTH. 4)69 woman who has chancres, or by sucking a woman whose breasts are diseased. ' Hydrocephalus may be enumerated among the diseases of the foetus in utero ; the child is born with a large head, and in many cases dies, after making a few convulsive inspirations; but there are others who have lived many years with this disease, and the head gradually attains a larger and larger size, until it measures perhaps thirty- five or forty inches round. The brain of cliildren cut off by this kind of hydrocephalus, hears a strong resemblance to a bag filled with water, and the water is remark- ably limpid and transparent, and contains much less albumen than the water accumulated in cases of dropsy within the chest, belly, or within the vaginal coat of the testis. • > The substance of the brain is in some cases not above half an inch in thickness ; and when the whole brain and cerebellum have been removed, these are found to have lost a half or two-thirds of their weight. But when the disease comes on a few years after birth, it generally proves fatal in six or eight weeks, and the brain exhibits a very different appearance. It commonly looks as if it had been steeped in water, is not much lighter than in the healthy state, and its ventricles contain generally from a quarter of an ounce to four or five ounces of clear watery fluid. G g 3OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 470 « Of Organic Diseases of the Larynx, Trachea and Lungs. Children are frequently afflicted by the croup, and also by inflammation in the smaller branches of the windpipe ; which organic diseases have been already described. ifiscases of the Intestinal Canal. Children are extremely subject to organic dis- eases of the intestines, particularly to inflamma- tion and intus-susceptio. Many children have worms, either the ascarides or lumbrici, for the tape-worm is rarely observed before the child* is seven or eight years old. Organic Derangements of the Liver, The inflammation and enlargement of the liver, may be enumerated among the organic diseases of infancy and childhood, and they very frequent- ly prove fatal. This inflammation of the liver, is sometimes succeeded by suppuration. The liver in children sometimes attains a very large size, and descends as low down as the navel jCONGENITAL HERNIA OF THE MALE. 471 in colour it resembles cream, is uniform in con- sistence, rather softer than usual, and more easily torn, and the vessels on the peritoneal coat are in many such cases distended with blood. The neighbouring lymphatic glands are gene- rally reduced to a morbid state, and very much enlarged, and particularly those situated in the capsule of Glisson. The passage through which the testes pass within the scrotum, sometimes remains open, or is only partially shut, hence boys are exposed to the congenital hernia. Of the Congenital Hernia of the Male. The name implies, that the disease shews itself at, or soon after birth ;tbut this name is exception- able, as it gives an incorrect idea of the nature of this disease, which is much more frequent a short time after, than at the time of birth, and sometimes shews itself during manhood. This kind of hernia, therefore, should be called the 'vaginal, instead of the congenital hernia ; and it is necessary to add, “ of the male,” to distinguish from the vaginal hernia of the female ; as the protruded bowels are in immediate contact with the testicle, owing to the passage through which the testes had passed, remaining open. G g4OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 472 In this hernia, the displaced bowels are situated within the canal, through which the testes pass from the abdomen into the scrotum, which, though commonly obliterated, sometimes remains open during the whole of life. The nature of this kind of hernia was long un- known. We are chiefly indebted to Baron Hal- ler, Wrisberg, Mr Pott, and to Dr and Mr J. Hunter, for our knowledge on this head. There is much irregularity as to the period at which the canal, through which the testes pass,-is obliterated. Dr Camper has published the following obser- vations on the subject; he examined for that pur- pose the bodies of seventeen new-born male chil- dren. In eleven, the canal was open on both sides ; in three, a portion on the right side was open ; and in two, a portion on the left side was open ; and in one only, the canal was obliterated on both sides. Professor Wrisberg also has published many valuable observations on the descent of the testes, to which I beg leave to refer the reader *. There is frequently a stricture in the middle of the canal through which the testes pass. In a case of this description, which I dissected, there was a stricture in the middle of the canal, jmd a part of the omentum had got beyond the * Vid. Comment. Soc. Reg- Sclent. Getting.CONGENITAL HERNIA OF THE MALE. 473 constricted part of the canal, and had attained an unnatural bulk. The canal for the testes has been sometimes observed to be contracted at its upper, and also in its under parts, and sometimes, according to Dr Wrisberg, in two different places at the same time. Sometimes the testicles are detained in the groin, and have been mistaken for an inguinal hernia, and upon that supposition, trusses have been worn. The size and figure of this hernia is various, and depends upon the situation of the stricture in the canal; should the stricture be seated near to the under part of the scrotum, the hernial tumour then assumes an oblong figure, and is equally large in its upper, as in its under part, and the tumour passes out perpendicularly from the abdomen ; be- cause, in a child at birth, the spermatic cord docs not pass obliquely through the parietes of the ab- domen, as in the adult, but passes directly through these, and hence the peculiar shape of the herniary tumour. Lobstein has described a case of congenital hernia, in which the tumour descended as low as the knee. 7 he sac of the congenital hernia sometimes ac- quires a preternatural thickness, sometimes it is of an unusual thinness. Mr Arnaud relates a case, where the sac was so thin, that he divided it, inOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 474 making the incision through the skin, and with difficulty could find it out afterwards. T. he sac, which is of an oblong figure, is covered by the cremaster muscle, and the thin fascia of the abdominal muscles. On account of the greater shortness of the omen- tum of children, that organ is seldom contained within the hernial sac. As life advances, in consequence of the omen- tum being elongated, it gets into the hernial sac, which originally contained only a portion of the small intestine. Mr A. Burns communicated to me a case, which forms an exception to the above observation. He met with an instance in a new-born child, of the omentum, which had previously adhered to the testicle, being dragged from the abdomen, along with that organ. It sometimes happens, as in a case related by Mery, in the Academy of Sciences at Paris, 1701, that the omentum, which had been displaced, has involved the testicle, which led the surgeon to sup- pose, that the patient was afflicted by a sarcocele. Meckel relates another effect of adhesion between the omentum and testicle. If the testicle, before it has reached the scrotum, contracts an adhesion with the other viscera of the abdomen, it may retard, or may prevent the de- scent of the intestines. Wrisberg has described several cases, in which the patients afflicted by this variety of hernia^CONGENITAL HERNIA OF THE MALE. 475 which was reducible, suffered the most excruciating pain whenever the hernia was reduced, which was found t9 have originated from a preternatural ad- hesion between the testicle and the omentum. Dr Wrisberg, and Mr Pott, also make men- tion of the intimate connection between the pro- truded bowels, and the testicle, and also of the difficulty of disuniting them. When the testicle has descended no lower than the UNDER ABDOMINAL APERTURE, it somctimes happens, that the intestine slips past it into the scrotum. Mr Pott met with two such cases; the pa- tients could not wear a bandage, on account of its pressure on the testicle. Sometimes the testicle in the groin has proved a cause of strangula- tion. This species of hernia may generally be dis- tinguished from the scrotal, from the difficulty of distinguishing the testicle, which is involved by the protruded parts. It may not be improper to add a circumstance respecting congenital hernia, which was lately communicated to me. About four years ago, a Surgeon was desired to ' reduce a congenital hernia in a boy of six years old ; he did so, and along with the bowels, he pushed back the testicle into the abdomen, which has never since passed into the scrotum. It sometimes happens, that the congenital her- nia is complicated with a hydrocele. In that par-475 OUTLINES OF ANATOMT. ticular case, the water collected within the vaginal coat, by change of posture, readily returns into the cavity of the abdomen. Of the varieties of Congenital Hernia. Mr Hey*, and Mr Foster f, have described an unusual variety of congenital hernia, in which the protruded bowels, with their containing sac, were included within the tunica vaginalis testis. This kind of hernia was probably occasioned by the canal, through which the testes pass, being shut in its upper part, whilst its lower part re- mained open. Of Congenital Hernia of the Female. In the observations on crural hernia which I formerly published, I observed, that infants of the female sex may be afflicted by hernia congenita, as there is a canal formed by the peritoneum, which passes through the under abdominal aperture, over the round ligament of the uterus. This canal is about half an inch in length, and terminates in a blind sac at the groin. * Vid. Ills Practical Observations. t Vid, Mr Astley Cooper’s book on Hernia, Part I, p. 59-CONGENITAL HERNIA OF THE FEMALE. 477 Nuck * is the first author who has described this canal ; he called it a divei'ticulum. Some authors had entertained doubts upon this point of anatomy, until Camper f and Wrisberg J examined the subject with attention. Camper found the above-mentioned canal open in three of fourteen female infants after birth ; and adds, that he had discovered traces of it in women after delivery. Wrisberg observed the canal of different sizes, and open in nineteen out of two hundred chil- dren. Le Cat observed it in a w^oman of forty-six years of age, of the size of a goose-quill. Mr A. Burns, in two cases of ascites, found this canal so much enlarged, as to admit of the intro- duction of the thumb. I have subjoined a letter, which I received from Mr A. Burns of Glasgow, descriptive of the con- genital hernia of the female. “ I have now examined seven cases of this kind, and in six have found the anterior side of the in- guinal canal deficient. The instance in which I found this species of herniary sac not conjoined with imperfect formation of the inguinal canal, was in a girl aged thirteen years Although I have once met with a congenital hernia without deficiency of * Vid. Adcnographia Curiosa, cap. 10. f Haarlem Trans. f Wrisberg, de Test, descens.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, 47» the anterior side of the canal, yet I have never had occasion to notice any case in which this deficien- cy existed, and was not complicated with conge- nital hernia. “ In one of the subjects with congenital hernia, the sac did not escape from the canal; in five, it had, from the peculiar state of the canal, descend- ed along the thigh, assuming to a great degree the resemblance of crural hernia ; and in one, it was bound down.by the superficial aponeurosis of the external oblique. In this person, the oblique apo- neurosis had come in reality to supply the place of the anterior side of the canal; it was so strong, that it resisted the passage of the tumour down along the thigh ; it led it down to the upper part of the labium pudendi. “ This was not the only peculiarity of the case ; for the tumour, in its course to the labium, insi- nuated itself between the fillets of the upper pil- lar of the canal, and at that point was strictured by this fillet. There was also a very obvious narrowing at the part where the sac escaped from the deficient canal. The stricture was formed by the interlacing fibres of the external oblique *, a fact which proves, that the deficiency of the canal docs not depend on the want of these fibres. “ In congenital inguinal hernia, the risk is, that we mistake the disease for crural hernia. It has been seen, that the tumour in the former, ovving to the imperfect state of the anterior wall of the canal, , comes, in the majority of cases, by separating theCONGENITAL HERNIA OF THE FEMALE. 478 fibres of the oblique aponeurosis, to place itself, in so far as regards the course of the swelling, in the situation of a crural hernia.” There are many examples within my knowledge, where this mistake was never discovered till after the operation had been performed. Generally, it is unpardonable in a surgeon to confound the one disease with the other. He can never, indeed, be excusable, unless where the parts around the sac are so swelled and diseased, that there is no possibility of distinguishing Pou- part’s ligament. In congenital inguinal hernia in the female, I have found that the tumour, when it descended along the thigh, lay above the adipo-glandular fas- cia, so that it was more defined and superficial than in crural hernia. I may add, that in the case from which the annexed Plate was taken, no one could, previous to the exposure of the parts by dissection, have conjectured that the anterior side of the canal w’as so extensively wanting. This arose from the unusual resistance afforded by the oblique aponeu- rosis ; a resistance which prevented the descent of the sac along the thigh. Where the deficiency of the canal was great, and the hernia large and reducible, I have found that the finger could be made to follow the bowels, and so could be turned into the crural fo- ramen. Infants are frequently afflicted by umbilical her- nia.480 OUTLINES-OF ANATOMY^ There is a variety of this kind of hernia, which is congenite. The navel-string ends in a bag, which appears to be formed by the extension of the cord. This bag, which is so thin, that its contents are perceived, contains a portion of the bowels of the abdomen, and it communicates by an aperture in the situation of the navel with the cavity of the abdomen I have seen this kind of rupture of great size, and containing the liver and stomach. Sect. VII. OF SHRIVELLED FOETUSES. > The last circumstance regarding the foetus which merits mention, is, that the foetus sometimes shri- vels, but does not putrefy ; and such shrivelled foetus is sometimes discharged, after a full-grown healthy child. There is a specimen of the above description in the Museum of the University; A foetus, about eight inches long, and remarkably thin, and which seemed as if it had been compressed by a heavy weight, came away after a full-grown and healthy child. % * Vid. Hey’s Surgery; also Dr Hamilton's Observations on this kind of Umbilical Hernia, in Mr A stley Cooper's Book on Hernia. Also Albini, Anat. Acad. lib. i.; Ruvscii,- Obs. Anat. Chir, Obs. p. 71*PART XXIV. VoL. III. Hh f• ■»W' W’ '■ Z-. i*3 ■Hat:’ ' jy, U *'! '*t; ■ ♦“ •f*- : > I. i ■.\\«. »• -^ • .» %. fl ♦ * .•r>:z Tii; q n • • NJ’-’ :.'.a , X ^ J » . "t tl JHI ■• Wi. ’* !M -?ev -■-f^-v.• • « - ' *■ -#!/> i A .'* ^ ■ f'" X- ' •' I_ *^A' ' \V JK'.‘ • . % ^ r fi( 483 ) CHAPTER I. t OF THE ORGANIC DISEASES OF PREGNANT WOMEN, Pregnant women are subject to the piles, to jaundice, to dropsy of the belly, to umbilical her- nia, to rupture or displacement of the womb, and very frequently varix of the veins of one of the limbs. The uterus, during the fourth month of preg- nancy, is sometimes displaced, or, to use the tech- nical language, retroveried, by which is meant, that the fundus uteri is thrown backwards and downwards, while the os uteri is directed up- wards. This displacement is said in some instances to take place slowly. Of tite Diseases subsequent to Pregnancy. $ One of the most frequent organic diseases sub- sequent to pregnancy, is peritoneal inflammation HhSOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 484. After delivery, inversion of the uterus some- times takes place, in different degrees; when the inversion is slight, the tumour is retained within the vagina, and the fundus uteri protrudes only to a certain degree through the mouth of the uterus ; when, on the other hand, the inversion has been complete, the vagina is also partly in- verted, and a tumour of considerable length ap- pears externally. The inversion of the uterus is sometimes fol- lowed by a profuse bleeding ; by convulsions, or syncope; or it induces distention or inflamma- tion of the bladder, by its pressure on the ure- thra ; or sometimes occasions a discharge of fe- tid matter, which is succeeded by a lingering hec- tic fever. OJ Ruptured Uterus. Any part of the womb may be ruptured. I believe the rupture of the neck of the womb to be more common than that of any other part of that organ. Rupture bf the womb has been stated by Drs Percival and Underwood to be the consequence of a fright •, it may be oiving to external violence; and, according to Lieutaud, it is sometimes the ef- fect of the placenta plugging up the mouth of the womb.OF EXTRA-UTERINE FOETUSES. t Vid. Albucasis, lib. ii. c. 76. 485- ■ When the uterus has been tuptured, the patient generally dies, as in a case I examined, from loss of blood. But there have been instances in which the foe- tus has been lodged for years within the cavity of the abdomen, and where the uterus has decreased in size, and the woman has enjoyed pretty good health for some years afterwards. Of Extra-Uterine Foetuses. Foetuses have been found in the ovaria *, or in the uterine tube, enveloped in its membranes, the amnion and chorion. The tube, containing the foetus, sometimes ad- heres to the peritoneum, or to the intestines ; and,’ after some months, the sac bursts externally, and a great deal of fetid matter is discharged along with coagulated blood, and pieces of bone. The uterine tube, containing the foetus, some- times adheres to the parietes of the abdomen f, or to the intestines • and after a time, symptoms of violent irritation and inflammation come on, H h 3 * Vid. Littre, Acad, des Sciences, 1701;—also Haller Element. Phys. vol. viii. x /OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, • •1.8G succeeded by hectic fever. The sac, containing the foetus, bursts generally about the third month of pregnancy ; a great deal of fetid matter, and coagulated blood, and sometimes bones, are dis- charged by the rectum *, vagina f, or bladder In some cases, even an entire foetus has been dis- charged from the navel §, or by the rectum j]. But in some cases the extra-uterine foetus re- mains for years within the abdomen, without gi- ving rise to any peculiar symptoms. There is a case in the Museum of the University, in which a foetus, which was in part covered by a shell of . bone, remained within the abdomen for thirty- four years. The patient had been in labour for twelve days, after which the labour-pains entirely went off. Nothing had been discharged. The patient car- ried the mass for thirty-four years. After death, it was cut out by Mr Logan, surgeon in Ayr- shire. • * Vid. PouTEAU, Melang. p. 373.;—also Winthrop, Phil. Trans. 43. '+ Vid. SMitH, Med. Comment, vol. v.; Med. and Phys. Joum, Vol. ii.; Camper, Demons. Anat. Pathol, lib. 2. J Vid. Ronseus, Epist. Med. Recueil Period, tom. 13. Med, and Phj's. Journal, vol. xiv. p. 425. , , * i § Vid. Lend. Med. Obs. & Inq. vol. ii. p.-369. ■ ' ‘ jl Vid. Gifford, Phil. Trans, vol. xMvi. p. 425.- .hi T487 OF EXTRA-UTERINE FOETUSES. Another case, which is somewhat similar, is pre- served in the Museum. The foetus had lain only for three years within the cavity of the abdomen, when it was cut out by Mr Robertson, surgeon in Jamaica, and the operation did not pro^e fatal to the patient. In a few rare cases, the extra-uterine foetus has fallen downwards between the rectum and vagi-» na, and has occasioned the same symptoms as the tetroversio uteri. ‘ There are also cases upon record, in which the placenta has adhered to the stomach or the colon, or even to the spine Two cases have lately occurred, in which foe- tuses were contained within the abdomen of the male f * * Vid. Morgagni, Epist.lviii. Duverny, Oeuvres Posthum. tom. ii. p. 362. Also Mauriceau, Traite des Malad. des Femmes grosses. Dionis, Operat. Chir. art. Operat. Ciesar. Tii. Bartholin, de insolitis Partubus. f Vid. Richerand’s Physiology, translated by Dr De Lys, p. 496.; and. Young, Medico-Chirurg. Transact, of London, vol. i. H h 4488 . OUTLINIS OF ANATOMY. CHAPTER ir. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE PLACENTA. A HE Placenta sometimes is much softer than na- tural ; tumours form in its substance, or it is part- ly ossified. Of Ossification in the Placenta. I This substance is sometimes in part ossified. I have met with three cases of this description; the patients were young healthy women. 'The placenta, in all the cases, adhered rather more firmly to the,fundus uteri than common. The children were very thin, but very healthy in every respect, and sucked readily when put to the breast.DERANGEMENTS OF THE PLACENTA. ^d9 Upon examining the placenta, I observed that the largest pieces of bone were found immediately under the membranes covering it. Many of the pieces of bone vi^ere attached to the outer side of the branches of the arteries of that organ, by means of very small threads, which were probably hollow vessels. One of the patients from whom the ossified placenta had been extracted, fell again with child. Every thing went on during the period of utero- gestation in the common manner, and the placenta was found nearly in the same state as before. Nearly two years intervened between the births. Of the Degeneration of the Placenta into Hyda- tids. The Placenta, in some cases, is converted into a mass of hydatids of different sizes, which adhere to each other, so that it somewhat resembles a bunch of grapes.Outlines of ANATOMVa m tiST OF AUTHORS ON THE GRAVID WOMB, ANtJ ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE FOETUS. Authors on the G?'a'vid JVomh. Adolp. Bochmeri, Obs. Anat. circa Uterum Human. lloEUERER, de Utero. Gottingae, 1759. Dr W. Hunter’s Plates of the Gravid Uterus. Hunter’s Anatomical Description of the Gravid Ut<?« tus, published by Dr Baillie. Dr Denman’s Midwifery. Baudelocques Midwifery,—4th edit. Authors on the Peculiarities of the Foetus. Wrisberg, Descrip. Anat. Embry. Gott. 1764. Roederer, de Pondere et Longitudine infantum recent hatorum. C. L. Trew, de differentiis Hominis nati et non nati; Altdorf, 1736. * / J. G. Roederer, de Foetu perfecto. Strasburg, 1750. Lobstein, Diss. sur la Nutrition du Foetus, Stras- hwrg, 1802.m authors on the foetus. Haller, Program. Herniar. Obs. Gcetting. 1749. Lobstein, de Hernia Congenita. Wrisberg, Observ. Anat. de Testicul. ex abd. descen, vol. i. Wrisberg, Comment., and in the Commentat. Soc. Reg. Scient. Goetting. 1778. Camperi leones Herniar. Tab. x. & xi. ' J. Hunter, on the Descent of the Testicle. Lawrence, on Hernia. For an account of the manner of formation and pecu- liarities of the Ingviinal Caqal of the Foetus,—see yol. ii, E7igra>vings of the Foetus. Th. Soemmering, leones, Embryon Human. Fran- cofurti ad Moenum, 1799. Dr W. Hunter, on the Gravid Uterus. In Fyfe’s System of Anatomy, the figures of Soem- mering, representing the size of the Foetus at different ages, have been very faithfully copied; and, in the sam^ book, there are several useful plates, representing the peculiarities of the viscera of the foetus, as also the struc- ture of the foramen ovale, or passage between the an- ficles of the heart. -CONCLUSION. In superintending these Outlines, while passing through the Press, I have paid a willing attention to a judicious remark of Condillac, that what has been once said, and in its proper place, is more clear to a careful reader, than if it were frequent- ly repeated. Another consideration, which some anatomists have been blamed for overlooking, has been habi- tually present to my thoughts. Hence I have scru- pulously avoided, as far as it has been in my power, the error of dividing the body into parts, and of describing separately the bones, muscles, bowels, arteries, veins and nerves, without adverting to their combination, mutual relation and action in the living structure. The practice, against which I have been solicit- ous to guard, has a necessary tendency to keep out of view the relations which the different parts of the system bear to one another, and their subserviency to the important functions for which they are ulti- mately designed. In treating of the parts, therefore, in the pro- gress of the Lectures, while due attention is be-6UTLINES OF ANATOMV* 491 Stowed on accuracy and minuteness of description, it is my anxious wish to keep the mind of the stu- dent continually awake to their relative position and intimate connection. On this principle, I have not neglected to note, even in the Outlines, that the form and movements of the ribs have a reference to the lungs, and the function of respiration ; that the structure of the pelvis or basin, has a reference to the functions of the bladder of urine, and of the womb *, and that the structure of the skull contributes to the acute- tiess of the organs of sense. Room has also been made for remarks of the following character,—that an exact knowledge of the relative situation of the bones, muscles, arte- ries, veins, and nerves, is indispensably necessary to every operation which the surgeon can be called upon to perform, and ought to have a due influence on all the steps which he may be induced to take in preparing for the relief of accident or disease. These are hints of equal importance for direct- ing the prosecution of study, and the details of successful practice. The exposition contained in these Volumes of the Winter Course of Anatomy, taught in the Uni- versity of Edinburgh, may perhaps serve to con- vince the public of a fact, well known to my pu- pils, that the Morbid Anatomy is not detached from , the healthy, and converted into the business of a Summer Session.495 CONCLUSION. tt never escaped my thoughts 'for a moment, that the healthy anatomy is cultivated chiefly to assist the medical practitioner in ministering to the ailments and distresses of mankind, and that this application constitutes the professional value of the science, and its subserviency to the duties of a use- ful art.’ The Summer Course, lately instituted, takes nothing from that delivered in the winter, which the progress of knowledge had led me to superadd to it, but was intended solely for the pur- pose of prosecuting at greater length a particular branch of the general subject which has many strong claims to accurate and minute investigation. While these Outlines bear witness to the nature and extent of the subjects discussed in the Anatomi- cal Chair, I am not unwilling to hope, that they may be of considerable practical utility to the Students for whose benefit they have been designed, by ap- prizing them of the articles to be brought under their review; by suggesting the books which it may be proper to consult, in order to prepare thein for entering fully into the detail of facts and illus- trations ; and by serving afterwards as the notes of an artificial memory, to bring their knowledge readily to their recollection. THE END,I ^ ' i f. 7/'.' haqs'»'’ 7ar?ii ii VV'*’ ^ ''"'t •'• ‘ ‘ ^ ‘^jii9^t xnf -•. ’ ^ : f- .. jjnf f. ., lU'; Wii! Ji:.i ‘;. . ,{.45;l i f.iuj c>r-)ir; i.i; ori^‘^••>J/. -!.**,.KJ1-- i un'/ ryJ- '-i; *. ' ; ., J..‘t*'^*|n •Osli i. t>) • -•' .Qv'sskjO rn •/ ,V;,ri K^i w .. - , . . • . ■ •■.... I ■ , . ' ■ ^ .' i i.1 , ■ ,*#4* A-.* • .*• / ..IW.** f\‘ ' V *' . . I -ijii.. • ^ '• ■' ' • '*7. ‘ ' ^ ' *■ ' r . • { * ’ . f . .. S "" . ••■-'• • •• ‘ 5 ‘ .•■» -iv.; * r. liry'.J vj» j/; ^^ulirja;:cT.-i- I- - • *’rrtufi ^ 1. .oing r.fl; . :gU > /iii oTl/’f/ini Iwjn ,U4^T'it>7)K,(U..i». •• ->111 c Hiv/ .^foinuU - ‘ - • . i* if; i5;|:?o( i' ' v.». ; - . > ..; ,i voi' J 3»:(i J ;a{;:liiif’ri;; ;' J- .1 .r. . ;u Wd '•.•■■'■ '•■ . ilfMddsff, ■ v7 'I • /' •:»' I ' . ! ■'■ , 'a .jlj.O *’i i - .'{■{■'’ v;)-:;7l..ni .j ul "v: («>;• to t"ti.'.i ot!.: -r- ."I..,.7ri!j-: r .^’i. 'i > • vf ' ■'f- • ’’n' ...rn, ' ■ . r ' ( ■9 -ilA'. ’A<' , :n'''LrHr ■C 497 ) VOL. Ill, li APPENDIX. Explanation of the Plates of Urinary Concretions, together with Observations on the Chemical In- gredients of these by Mr John Davt. [The Plates 37. 38. and 88 A, represent almost all the varieties as to the size, figure, and chemical composition of urinary concretions, which are occasionally met with in the urinary passages. As these Plates were not finished when the text to which they refer was printed, I was under the necessity of throwing the Explanation of . them, written by Mr John Davy, into the form of an Appendix.]* . i M , -WV- ') -A kt •• ■■ 4. VI . * •», ■M . i % Mi ^ cuvi »iM*'**’ t^riesJSW >^i . \ JE i • -^- > , • j ^ . ffi* J ^ • ■ i * * If . ^ ^ K. ■ '• > T' f -f i'^.. ' '1 y Lrji .c.^ ,rt . ’ fiit5*.'^t^ir ,in« orif m *a rilJ;»Ye/V^ ] ^ /’^■ . '^>f'»-i:3?0E^ififjhn Ip fnaJi^oofr:'':? ^ vi Vif-r HLj »^ir:’vj^. . :] :* .• ; :^:fi iit'' u‘•‘‘.V* *^y^^|• v' - 3: f-‘ , •t.-t >*'T *»ifI '^trffift r ^ V11 *vi5 f kitrtf ▼(! 'r^lh't v /n^di ^r ». t • « k jB »- ** .'HA •*',** ' •-' ’'• •’ • 's’.j' ...» ,,^ ./\c ,•»■.- I'^V 1 ) * "f;- ■ ‘'t- r i499. explanation of plates. Explanation of Plate xxxvii. “ Fig. 1.—From a section of it, this calculus seems to be of a uniform composition. It consists of very small brilliant crystals, but slightly com- pacted together, and is in consequence very fran- gible. Uric acid, and extractive matter, are its chief constituent parts; It contains, besides, a very small quantity of phosphat of lime, about 1 per cent. “ The characteristic chemical properties of this kind of calculus are the following. It is very lit- tle acted on by muriatic acid. Nitric acid dis- solves it readily, and the solution evaporated af- fords a fine pink*coloured residue. It is partially dissolved by a caustic solution of potash or soda, and partially by water. The alkali takes up the uric acid, and the water the extractive matter. Before the blow-pipe, it inflames; emits a strong ammoniacal odour, and almost entirely consumes; leaving only a very little fixed ash, which is gene- rally phosphat of lime or magnesia, or oxalat of lime, or mixtures of these sglts. Heated in a close vessel, it affords, besides different gases, water, sub-carbonat of ammonia, and a yellow bitter oil, of a butyraceous consistence. This is the mo?t common species of urinary calculus. liSAPPENDIX. 500 “ Fig. 2.—represents a calculus from the kidney. The figure was taken before a section had been made of it. When divided, it was found to be composed of two kinds of matter. The whole exterior chiefly consists of uric acid. It only dif* fers from the preceding in physical properties, be- ing harder, more compact, and not apparently cry- stalline. The nucleus which the section exhibit- ed, is of a nut-brown colour, and consists of con- centric layers, thin, hard, and brittle. This nu- cleus is principally composed of uric acid, of oxalat of lime, and phosphat of lime. ** Fig. 3.—represents a uric calculus containing a little extractive matter, and about 4 percent, of mixed phosphat and oxalat of lime. It is a con- geries of very small crystals. “ Fig. 4.—represents a calculus, the chemical qualities of which are very similar to those of the last, and the proportions of the constituent parts much the same. The texture is different externally, the fracture is earthy, and internally resinous. “ Fig. 5.—represents a calculus taken from the bladder of urine. It is remarkably hard and brittle. On its exterior surface, as the figure ex- hibits, there is the appearance of a crystalline ar- rangement in the form of cubes. 1 he calculus con- sists of concentric coats very slightly adhering to-501 EXPLANATION OF PLATES. liS gether, and very easily detached or broken from each other. The internal layers only differ from the external surface, in being of a lighter colour, and of a less crystalline texture. It is composed of phosphat of lime and water, without any ap- preciable quantity of animal matter. It possesses the following chemical properties : “ It neither decrepitates nor burns before the ' blow-pipe, but fuses when strongly heated. It readily dissolves, without effervescence, and ‘ without affording any sensible residue, in the mu- riatic and the nitric acids. The whole taken up by these acids, is thrown dow"n by ammonia, and the precipitated matter is quite insoluble in oxalic acid. The calculus, heated to redness in a glass tube, yields as much as 20 per cent, of water, and nothing else besides the fixed phosphat of lime. This, I believe, is- a new fact. I am not aware, that water ever before has been found combined with phosphat of lime. It is a true hydrophos- phat, and I have formed artificially a similar one, though with a smaller proportion of water. “ Fig. 6.—represents a calculus consisting chief- ly of uric acid, with a small quantity of extractive matter, and of earthy salts. It is brittle, and its fracture is resinous.” Fig. 7.—represents a large concretion, which, had been imbedded within the pelvis of the. kidney.APPENDIX. 502 Fig. 8.—represents a concretion of a yellow colour, which also had occupied the pelvis of the kidney. Fig. 9.—represents a concretion which had been lodged in the bladder of urine, and which had been impressed by another concretion con- tained in that organ, Explanation of Plate xxxviii. “ Fig. 1.—represents the section of a mulberry calculus, taken from the bladder of urine. It is very hard and tough, and is composed of concen- tric layers, between which there are dark lines, as if of coagulated blood. The rugged irregular globular form, is peculiar to this species, and is alone sufficient to characterise it. Its constituent parts are chiefly oxalat of lime and uric acid, with a little phosphat of lime. The oxalat of lime is insoluble in water, in alkalies, and only with diffi- culty in muriatic acid. It is inflammable, and the result of its combustion, is quicklime, or carbonat of lime, according to the degree of heat applied. The mulberry calculus is easily analysed. Pot- ash will dissolve the uric acid, acetic acid will take up the phosphat of lime, and the chief con- stituent part, the oxalat of lime, will remain undissolved.”EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 503 Fig. 2.—represents the surface of the same concretion. “ Fig. 3.—represents a calculus takeirfrom the kidney. From a section of it, it appears to be com- posed of successive layers of whitish and of brown- ish matter, which is soft, and of an earthy texture. The brown layers are too thin to be individually examined ; most probably they are chiefly uric acid. The mixture of the two, principally con- sists of ammoniaco-magnesian phosphat, uric acid, phosphat of lime, and water. The presence of ammoniaco-magnesian phosphat, is easily ascertain- ed. It is soluble in oxalic acid, as well as in the nitric and muriatic ; and by ammonia, it is pre- cipitated from them all, unaltered. It is not in- flammable. Heated, it affords water and caustic ammonia, and ammonia is also evolved when it is acted on by either of the fixed alkalies.” % Fig. 4.— This figure represents a concretion, which is of a rounded form, and with an uneven surface. Fig. 5.—represents a concretion taken from the bladder, which was of a very uncommon form, externally white and friable, and internally it con- tained a concretion of a dark brown colour. I i 4504. APPENDIX. “ Fig. 6.—was taken from a cast of a urinary concretion ; the smaller end of which had been lodged within the bladder of urine. Figs. 7* & 8.—represent urinary concretions, which had impressed each other so much, as to resemble cup and ball. Explanation of Plate xxxviiiA, “ Fig. 1. and 2.—Fig. 1. represents the outer sur- face of the concretion, and fig. 2. a section of it. “ This very large calculus * consists of three kinds of matter, perfectly distinct from each other, and well defined by differences of colour. « * In the records of physic and surgery, there are very few cases in which larger urinary concretions have been found, than the above mentioned, which weighed, before it was dry, thirty- two ounces. A calculus weighing forty-two ounces, has lately been describ- ed in the London Philosoph. Transact. The following authors have described very large urinary con- cretions. 4 * C. Lancilottus. Nella Guid. alia Chimic. Part. iii. JoH. Jacob. Leibniz, Memorab. Bibliothec. Norimb. Jon. Bapt. Helmont, de Lithiasi, cap. iii. § 40. f. 43. p. m. l6. Verduc, Traite des Operat. de Chirurg. cap. xi. He has described a concretion within the bladder which weighed 3 lbs. and 3 ounces. Thom. BAnTiiouN. Hist. Anat. Cent. v. Hist. 57. p. 126.ANALYSES OF CALCULI. 605 - “ The nucleus, as represented in the figure, is of a dark brown colour; it is hard and brittle ; its form is globular, and its outline rough and ragged. It is a good example of the mulberry calculus. “ The next substance, that which surrounds the nucleus, is of a nut-brown colour, and very brit- tle ; though not hard, its fracture is resinous, and its lustre is slightly resinous; its general appear- ance is very similar to that of roll-sulphur ; its form is completely oval, and its outline quite equal. It is a perfect specimen of the uric cal- culus.^ ^ “ The third-snbstance, the envelope of the whole, is white, soft,- tough and fibrous; presenting in its section traces of crystallization, and on its exter- nal surface evident crystals. This is an equally good instance of the ammoniaco-magnesian cal- culus. “ I shall briefly describe the experiments I made to ascertain the composition of the calculus j and I shall commence with the nucleus. “ It did not effervesce, and was onlypartially dis- solved in muriatic acid, and a considerable time was required for the full effect to be produced. Ten grains of it in powder, digested in diluted mu- riatic acid for two days, were dissolved, with the exception of three grains, which put into a solution of caustic potash, soon disappeared, a few floccu- ^ li only remaining;. Hcnce it may be concluded, that these three grains were chiefly uric acid, and the undissolved part was probably extractive mat--APPENDIX. S06 ter. Ammonia was added to the muriatic solu- tion, and the precipitate well washed and dried, weighed 6-4 grs. Heated to redness, it inflamed, and afforded a white earth, which had the caustic taste of quicklime. It was dissolved with effer- vescence in muriatic acid, and the salt obtained by the evaporation of this solution to dryness was completely redissolved by water,—a proof of the absence of all insoluble phosphats.. It may, there- fore, be concluded, that the 6.4 grs. were oxalat of lime. To ascertain whether the nucleus con- tained any water, 10 grs. of it were heated in a bent glass tube ; the result was, the production of a quantity equal to a drop or two. From these experiments, the nucleus seems to consist of uric acid, oxalat of lime, and water, in the following proportions per cent.: 30 uric acid. 64 oxalat of lime. 6 water. 100 ** The nut-brown substance exhibited all the charateristic properties of uric acid. Heated before the blow-pipe, it inflamed, emitted an am- moniacal odour, and was almost entirely consum- ed ; The ash that remained from five grains was just visible, and not a quantity nearly sufficient for examination. Another portion of it, heated with nitric acid, acquired the pink colour j and aANALYSES OF CONCRETIONS. 507 third portion, digested in a solution of potash, was, excepting a few flakes that remained, entire- ly dissolved. These results allow us to conclude, that the nut-brown substance is principally uric acid. “ The white crystalline substance was dissolved by the muriatic acid without effervescence ; It did not flame when heated, and became only slightly discoloured ; the fixed residue it affbrded was fu- sible, when strongly heated. Ten grains of the white substance in powder, heated to dull redness in a bent glass tube, yielded much water, strongly impregnated with ammonia ; the residue was of a slight brownish hue, from the charcoal pro- duced, from an inappreciably minute quantity of animal matter ; the residue weighed only 4.8 grs. It did not change the colour of turmeric paper, nor effervesce with oxalic acid, which only par- tially dissolved it; therefore no oxalat of lime was present. The oxalic solution, separated from the insoluble part by filtration, was precipitated by ammonia. This precipitate, heated to redness, weighed 1.3 grs., and was phosphat of magnesia. The part undissolved in the oxalic acid was oxa- lat of lime, for it affbrded quicklime by calcina- tion. The proportion of this phosphat, would ap- pear equal to 3,5 grains, by deducing the quantity of phosphat of magnesia, from the whole of the fixed residue. Thus, the white envelope, seems to be composed of phosphat of lime, and phosphatAPPENDIX. 508 of magnesia, of ammonia, and water, in the follow-, ing proportions; 35 phosphat of lime. 13 phosphat of magnesia. 52 water and ammonia, and slight traces of animal matter. 100 “ It is unusual to meet with a calculus of so great a size, and of such a composition as the present. Its composition is particularly instructive, espe- cially in a therapeutical point of view. As it con- sists of three different kinds of matter possessed of such opposite qualities, it would have been nearly impossible to have removed it from the bladder by means of chemical agents.^ Suppose the bladder capable of bearing, uninjured, the ac- tion of acid and alkalies, what would be the con- sequence of the introduction of either ? Were an acid injected when the stone was fully formed, it might dissolve the external ammoniaco-mag- nesian phosphat, which is soluble in the nitric and muriatic rfcid ; but it would not remove any of the uric acid, which is acted upon only by alkalies ; on the contrary, it is probable, that the acid would occasion a fresh deposition of uric matter, and reinlargement of the stone. But, suppose an alkali, instead of an acid, was first injected, the worst effect might be produced; and there is good reason to believe, that the deposition of the triple509 EXPLANATION OF PLATES. salt would proceed with increased rapidity. And in all the stages of the formation of this calculus, there would be equal danger and difficulty of treat- • ment. Thus the medicines which dissolve the mul- berry calculus, precipitate uric acid, and vice versa. From various circumstances, from our knowledge of their composition, and the assemblage of dif- ferent kinds in one stone ; from the action of acids and alkalies upon calculi, and from the effects which these powerful agents have produced, when given as lithontriptics, it may be concluded, that acids and alkalies are never beneficial, when pre- scribed with the intention of dissolving a stone already formed, and that alkalies are only service- able when given as general medicines, to correct acidities,, and to repair the deranged digestive powers. These conclusions were first made by Mr Brande, in an excellent paper, published in the Philosophical Transactions, in which he afforded ample proof of the success of magnesia, given in- ternally, in preventing the formation of uric cal- culous matter.” Fig. 3.—represents a urinary concretion, which . weighed fourteen ounces, and which was ex- tracted from the bladder by the late Mr Alexan- jiER Wood.510 APPENDIX. Fig 4.—represents a small urinary concretion, which was taken from the bladder of urine. I Fig. ,6. & 6.—represent urinary concretions from the bladder of urine.-■m « 1 ■ •Vg"* V.- 4 7^- i/.r -w '^'^ 'r y' ^‘1 ■: ir. tHMr.,-1'* * i' ■^'-fi r '.' . ■ ‘ ' • ‘ . f ♦fciifW*i4B4::i*5 »- '. ' '^ *• . • ■■ -. • ..cri \JF‘:•/. - - — ••^ ' L' ^ , ■ (■ i .p- , • ‘>4v ^ *»i .►■ •!’• '• . A . / t- r T-^-r ;. ',K' r ■ ^ 1P1P» *?Ti - • ■<♦ VrO* rw# «V ^ ■ ■■ •r~ ~ *. ' r <r' V- . . ..V,. ... " «’■*:? ;- V ■ ".rf <t> ' ati, ^'. ^ ■ ..s»-^ .*»}'ter«- •*-'^ ,^ ** ^*' .« % ' ' •• ' ‘ •■-.t<i* r''' • *- j. -. •'^ ' •,- ;r, - • * • • , */ »: • • ■ ‘ . ' ’ ■ Vfc # ' < / '.V-JV,rA . >_' ’■ "■ ■ *i>{ j . ■ -*• - . ». .• ’’m. ?■?'' I- • ■ /2'/GENERAL INDEX / A. Page Abdomen, of the, vol. ii. 71 muscles of the parietes of the, ’ 72 —— bloodvessels of the parietes of the. « ii. 88 iii 337 bloodvessels within the cavity of the. iii. 339,337 nerves within the cavity and on the parietes of the, 332, 319 lymphatics within the cavity and . on the parietes of the. 332, 349 and its contents in the foetus, 437 Abdominal aorta. 332 Abducentes, or sixth pair of nerves, 163 Abductor oculi, _ ^ 161 minimi digiti manus, vol. i. 466 pedis. - 534 pollicis manus. * 464 minimi digiti pollicis pedis, i. 534 Abscess of the vascular system. ii. 372 Absorbents, of the. 287 Absorbent vessels, authors on the. 311 Absorption, causes and manner of. 291 VOL. HI. Kk514 GENERAL INDEX, Accelerator urinae, Accessory nerve to the eighth pair, Adductor minimi digiti manus, ' pollicis manus,' — — pedis, femoris triceps, oculi, Tage vol. iii. 59 287 i. 466 464 535 523 iii. 161 Advantages resulting from the spine consisting of several bones, Afterbirth, or placenta, Ala, of the ear, Alae of the nose. Albuginea tunica testis. Albugo oculi, Alimentary canal, tumours connected with the villous coat of the. i. 189 iii. 421 178 139 45 224 / ii. 173 43,109,12b of the, derangements of the muscu- lar coats of the, - 182 derangement of the peritoneal coat of the, - 183 derangement of the villous coat of the, - 168 derangement of the cellular coat of the, - 182 imperfections as to the forma- tion of the, - iii. 462 coats of the, reduced to a pulpy state, - ii. 185 scirrhus and cancer of the, 186 authors on the derangement of the, - 213, 21.5 derangements of the, - ’151615 GENERAL INDEX, Page Alimentary canal, inflammation of the villous coat of the, - ii. 168 — ulceration and erosion of the vil- lous coat of the, - 1G9 —— cartilaginous or osseous, - 181 Alvine concretions, analysis ot, - ' ' 63 Amaurosis of the optic nerve, - iii 230 Amnion, • - - 418 423 Anastomoses of arteries, observations by Dr Mon- ro 2duSj . S85 - ■ observations on, by Mr Astley Cooper, 383 Anatomy, definition of, - i. 1 Anchylosis, - - - 158 Anconeus muscle, - - 457 Aneurisms of the arteries, different kinds of, ii. 368 '• '■ ■■ — arch of the aorta, varieties of, 369 descending aorta, - 373 • heart, - - 371 Animal mechanics, authors on, - 555 Angular artery, - - iii 265 Antagonist muscles, - - i. 132 Anterior auris, - - iii. 176 Anteriores cerebri arteria;, - - 271 Antihelix, - - 175 Antitragicus, - - 177 Antitragus, - - . 176 Anus, muscles of the, - • ii. 142 Aorta, - - , - iii. 262 descendens, aneurisms of the, ii. 373 aneurism of the arch of the ,aorta, explana- tion of plate of, - . 377 Kk2GENERAL INDEX. 516 Page Aorta thoracic, . . iH, 3*1 veins corresponding with the, 32-i abdominal, with its branches, - 332 — veins corresponding with the, 337 Aponeurosis of the superior extremity, - i. 446 of the inferior extremity, - 518 Aphthae, - . H. 181, iii. 246 Apollo llelvidere, - - i. 562 Apoplexy, iii. 220 authors on, - - 254 Appendages of the eye and eye-lids, - 142,163 Appendices vermiformes cerebelli, - 132 Appendix of vol. i. - - i. 123,557 of vol. iii. - - 497 vermiformis intestini caeci, - ii. 139 Aqueous humour of the eye, - iii. 152 derangements of the, - 227 Arachnoid coat of the brain, - 124 Arch of the aorta, In state of aneurism, explana- nation of Plate of, - - 278 Arch, crural, vol. ii. - - 75 Arsenic, and its oxides, effects of, taken into the sto- mach, - - - - 167 Arm, bones of the, - - i. 412 muscles of the, - - 452 bloodvessels of the, - iii. 291 nerves of the, - - - 311 lymphatics of the, - - 319 Arteries, description of the disposition of the, ii. 340 distribution of the, - iii. 261 Arterial system, varieties of the, - • ii. 342 Arteries, terminations of the, - - 343 coats of the, - - 346 . authors on derangement of the, - 374'.517 GENERAL INDEX, Page Arteries of the head and neck, varieties of the, iii. 276 distribution and anastamoses of the, 377 of the thorax, - 321 of the abdomen, - 332 of the superior extremity, - 2 tl of the inferior extremity, - 355 Authors upon the structure of the ii. 368 aneurism of the, - - ib. Articular arteries of the knee joint, - iii. 361 nerves of the shoulder, - 312 Articulations, different kinds of, - i. 18 of the true vertebree, - 189 Aiytenoid cartilages of larynx, - ii. 413 Arytenoidei obliqui musculi, Arytenoideustransver- sus, - - - 417 Ascaris vermicularis, - ii. 208 lumbricoides, - - 209 anatomical structure of, - 211 Aspera arteria or trachea, - - 334 Assimilation, ... 35S Assistant chylopoetic viscera of the foetus, iii. 438 Astragalus, - - i. 501 Atheroma, - . - iii. 252 Atlas, or first vertebra, - i. 196 Atloido-occipitalis, - - 390 sub mastoideus, - - 3S9 occipitalis, - - 391 Atmospherical air, effects of respiration upon, ii. 393 Attollens aurem, - - iii. 176 palpebrarum superiorem, - 166 Auricles of the heart, - ii. 334.-338 Auricular artery, - - iii. 266 Kk 3GENERAL INDEX 518 Page Auricularis pokerior arteria, - iii. 2G6, 267. ' — anterior, ' - - 267 Axillary arteries, - ‘ - 294 vein, - - ' - 308 plexus of nerves, - 311 Axoido-altoideus, - - i. 389 occipitalis, - - 3911 Azygos uvulfE, - - iL 59 vena, - , ' - Hi- 324 Ball of the eye, coats of the, humours of the, muscles of the, bloodvessels of the, — nerves of the. Basilic vein of the arm, Baynham’s membrane. Biceps flexor cubiti, cruris, Bifemoralis calcaneus. Bile, source of the, _ i- analysis of. Biliary ducts, calculi, and analysis of, explanation of Plate of, : authors on, Biventer Cervicis of Albinos, Bladder of urine, size and figure of the, bloodvessels of the, 342. lymphatics of the, ; coats of the. iii. 142 153 159 158 147. 162 307 200 i. 456 526 530 ii. 226 234 230 271 282 283 i. 388 iii. 5 347. 352 346 11519 GENERAL INDEX, Bladder of the, in the adult, undistended, —• of adult distended, ligaments of the, derangements of the, Blank’s (Dr) experiment on the tail of the Blood, its constituent parts, ———observations on the circulation of, effects of respiration on the, Body, general composition of. Bones of the skeleton, table of the, in general, - • - of the cranium, ■ face, - — trunk, pelvis, thorax, superior extremity, inferior extremity, of the formation of. — varieties of form, &c., — colour of, - ' — intimate structure of, — chemical analysis of, — bloodvessels of, — lymphatic vessels of, -- nerves of the, ■— foetal, — explanation of the Plates of the, 49 — state at birth, — source of, — of the adult, authors on, — observations upon injuries, and dise K k 4 Page iii. 6 7 8 10 3l eel, i. 96 32G ii. 350 397 i. 2 12 6 449 315 184 211 236 401 479 53 16 24 25 33 46 47 48 • 50 . 235. 353. 376 215. 228 58 6.5 ases of, 140GENERAL INDEX 520 Pa»e Bones, inflammation of, - i. 141 swelling of, - - ib. abscess, and caries of, - 143 excess of earthy matter in, - 150 on the diseases of the, - ib. incarnation of, or osteo-sarcoma, - 153 converted into a substance like chalk, 155 fragility of the, - 157 Bostock’s (Dr) analysis of the liquor pericardii, ii. 329 Brachialis-internus, - i. 456 Brain, of the, - iii. 120. 125 analysis of the, - 107 arteries of the, - 133 veins of the, - ib. investing membranes of the, . - 120 under-surface of-the, - J30 nerves connected with the, 134 physiology of the, - 136 derangements of.the, - 218 derangements of the membranes of the, 217, 218 lobes of the, - 125 I authors on derangements of the, 254 the - 209 organs of the senses and nerves, of the foetus in utero, - 434 and organs of the senses, malconformation of . the, . - - 458 Brande’s (Mr) analysis of the menstrual discharge, 67 of urinary calculi, 28 the chyle, ii. 323 Breast bone or sternum, - i. 248 ligaments of the, 397 Bregma, anterior and posterior, i. 281. iii. 433 Bronchi, - - ii* 3S5 I521 GENERAL INDEX. Bronchial arteries, glands, Bronchocele, authors on, Page iii. 321 ii. 423 ii. 435 437 57 iii. 59 242 Buccinator ( Bucco-labialis J Bulbo-urethralis muscle, Bullae, 4tli ord. of Willan, Burns’s, (Mr Allan) description of congenital hernia, 477 ■ — ^le gradual for- mation of the inguinal canal, ii. 96 of the malcontor- mation of the mi- iii. 461 i. 136 463 537 i. 469 il). 470 538 tral valve. Bursae mucosae, observations on the, Of the superior extremities, inferior about the shoulder joint, ■ elbow joint, arm and fore arm, in the vicinitj of the knee-joint, in the back view of the inferior extremity, sole of the foot. lymphatic vessels ef the, nerves of the, observations on the diteases of the authors upon the, on the diseases of the. 539 540 138 139 176 139 176GENERAL INDEX. 5i3 c. Calamus scriptorius, • - Calcaneo-super unguiallsj : sub — Calcis, os, Calco sub-phalangeus minimi, Camper’s, Dr Peter, observations on congenital hernia, - • Canal, true vertebrjB of, false Canalis venosus, Cancelli of bones. Cancer of the eye-ball, bones, . skin, under-lip, Capitatum, or magnum, os, Capitis rectus anticus, J ( minor. ■ Page iii. 132 i. 531 533 503 53'1 iii. 472 215 213 iii. 438 i. 26 iii. 231 i. 141 iii. 250 ii. 154 i. 26 390 391 .. (major, ‘ post/icus^ ^ ^ ( minor. 390 Carbuncle, - - iii* 252 Cardiac nerves, right and left, - 326,327 Carotid ai teries, - - 263 — deviations from the usual course of the, - iii* 393 artery, external, - 264 internal, Carpal bones. 26>) i. 428GENERAL INDEX. 52S Fagm Carpal and metacarpal bones, ligaments between thb, - i.'476 Carpo-metacarpeus minimi digit: , 466 metacarpalis, 463 phalangeus minimi digiti, - 466 -1 super phalangeus, - 464 phalangeus secundus, - 465 Carpus, ligaments of the, - 470,476 Cartilages, observations on. - 67 chemical analysis of, by Mr Davy, 68 ——— bloodvessels of. -T—^ lymphatic vessels of, p - 70 —! nerves of. of the ai’ticular or obducent, ‘w 71 —— interarticular. m ib. — connecting, \ 72 — substance like. - 73 observations on the diseases of, 172 authors on the diseases of, 173 of the knee-joint, • - 547 Cartilage ensiformis or xiphoides. 3.51 Caruncula lacrymalis. - iu. 172 ~ derangements of the, 233 Cataract, crystalline, - 227 membranous. • ib.' 1 interstitial. ib. Cataracta cystica. 223 Cataractes ebranlantes; 229 Cauda equina of the spinal marrow. 2S9 Cava vena superior. i. 308, 324 inferior. - 369 Cellular substance, derangements of the. iii. 251 Centralis retinae arteria?. • 270GENERAL INDEX. 524^ Page Centrum ovale of Vieusens,- - iii, 126 Cephalic vein, - . 307 Cerebellum, _ , . 131 derangements of the, - 217 —— — lobes or hemispheres of the, - 131 Cerebrum, - _ 125 Cervical arteries, - ‘ - 293 nerves, - . 309 vertebiJB, - - i, 194 peculiarities of the, - 196 Cervicalis descendens, ’ - 385 Cervico-mastoideus, - - 388 Cheek-bones, - - 323 Cheeks and lips, muscles of the, - ii. 54- CuENEvix’s, (Mr), analysis of the vitreous humour. iii. 156 Chest, bones of the. i. 236 Chicken pox. iii. 248 Chilblain, 245 Children, diseases of, at the period of birth. - 468 Chorda tympani. J92 Choroid coat. 144 plexus. 129 Chorion, 418,424 Chyle, of the. ii. 128 analysis of, by Mr Brande, 323 Chylification, process of, in the duodenum. 126 Chylopoctic and assistant chylopoetic viscera, of the, 108 bloodvessels of the, 332 nerves of the, - 338 Chylopoctic viscera, assistant, of the foetus, ^iii. 438 Cilia or eve lashes, - - 1C5GENERAL INDEX 525 Ciliary arteries, nerves, ligament or circle, glands, processes, Circulating system, of the. Circulation of the blood in the foetus, Circulus iridis arteriosus, Circumflexa femoris arteria, externa, , • i • r anterior, ■ — —■ humeri arteria, , ’ (^posterior, ossis ilii arteria, Circumflexus palati muscle, Clavicle, _ _ . ligaments of the, Claviculi of bones, Clavus, - - Clitoris, - _ _ derangements of the, Coats of the eye, - Coccygeus, - Coccygi-cutaneo-sphincter, Coccygis, os, - - - I Cochlea, description of, by Dr Monro senior, Cceliac artery, - ganglion. Colic arteries, Collar-bone, - - _ Colli J inter spinales, t inter transversales, longus, - - _ Page iii. 145,151,270 145,151 145 lfi4 146 ii. 323 iii. 442 270 357 295 355 ii. 5S i. 401 471 25 iii. 247 70 91 142 ii. 145 142 i. 216 iii. 185 333 339 336 i. 401 387 391GENERAL INDEX. 3Q6 Page Colli, semispinalls, - . tiansversalis, - . 355 Colon, - . . ii 136 engravings of the valves of the, - 148 Coluniiise cai*nejE cordis, ii.—see Heart, - 333 Conimissura cerebri, f _ iii. 129 t posterior, mollis of the optic thalami, - ib. Comparative vascularity of different parts, ii. 343 Complexus major muscle, - i. 388 minor muscle, - 389 Compressor narlum, - - 49 ■ prostrate of Albinos, - iii. 56 Concha of the ear, - - 177 Conclusions from structure of the eye, - 158 Concretions, urinary, - Appen. to vol. iii. 497 — very large, - Appen. to vol. iii. 505 chemical analysis of, Appen. to vol. iii. 507 urinary, not soluble within the blad- der of urine,—why ? Appen. to vol. iii. 509 Authors who have described very large urinary concretions, - -Appen. to vol. iii. 504 Condyloma, - ‘ - 247 Congenital hernia, - - ii. 201 in the male, * - iii. 471 in the female, - 476 desription of the, 477 varieties of the, - 476 (Connection of bones, different kinds of, ' - i. 18 Constrictor isthmi faucium, - ii. 59 inferior, pharyngis, medius, « i. 6i superior.527 GENERAL INDEX Page Cooper’s, (Mr Astlev,) account of the upper ab- dominal aperture, Coraco humeralls, brachialis. Cornea, Corns, Cornea of the ventricles of the brain. Coronary arteries of the lips, — heart. Corpora albicantia of the brain, cavernosa penis, fimbriata, {olivaria, pyramidalia, Corpus callosum of the brain, caliare of the eye, luteum of the ovarium, ——— mucosum, spongiosum urethra, striatum of the brain, Corrugator supercilii. Costae, Costal nerves, Costo abdominalis muscle, clavicus, , - coracoideus scapularis. Course of the lacteal vessels. ii. 81 experiments upon the aorta of dogs, - iii. 387 history of the dissection of a limb in which there were several aneurisms, . i 391- 455 ib. iii. 143 247 127,129,130 266 262 131 57 127 133 126 145 63 199 58 ‘ 128 167 i. 337 iii. 328 ii. 73 i. 45i 450 ii. 290GENERAL INDEX. 52S Cowpox, -—authors on the. Cranium, bones of the, muscles of the integuments of the, — causei of its form, &c. Cremaster muscle, Crico-arytenoidei X I postici. Cricoid cartilage of larynx, Crico thyroidei muscles. Croup, authors on the, Cruor, Crural arch, aperture, nerve, - - iii. 373 —^ sheath, - - ii. 83 hernia, - - 194, situation of the bloodvessels in re- spect to, - - 88 varieties of, - 105 Cruralis muscle, - - i. 525 Crystalline lens, iii. 152 ' • ■■ ■ its capsule, &c., derangements of . ' the, - 227 cataract, - ib. Cubito sub unguinalis, - i. 462 super-raetacarpeus, - 461 pollicis, - 464 radialis, - - 459 super phalangeus primus indicis, pollicis, > 465 — secundus pollicis, 507 Page iii. 248 '257 i. 449 48 356 iii. 45 ii. 417 413 413 418 437 328 75 Cuboides, os.general index. 529 Cunelforme, os, Cuneiforraa, ossa, Curvum intestinum, Cuspidati or canine teeth, Cutaneous nerves of the superior extremity, Cuticle, analysis of the. Cutis vera, analysis of the. Cystic artery, duct, Cystis fellis. Page i. 430 508, 509 ii. 140 14 iii. 316, 197 198 200 202 335 ii. 232 ib. D Dartos, - - 44 Davy’s, (Mr John,) tables of analyses of the bones in a sound and diseased,state, i. 36 40 68 79 235 273 11. Decidua, observations on ditto, analysis of cartilage, ditto of synovia, ditto of healthy bile, ditto of a biliary calculi, ditto of several salivary and pul- monary concretions, 407 ditto of urinary concretions, (App.) iii. 499 419. 423 reflexa. Deltoides muscle, anguli oris. Depressor labii inferioris, _labii superioris alaeque nasi, oculi, , - ib. i. 454 ii. 56 57 ib. iii. 160 VOL. Ill, LI530 GENERAL INDEX. Diaphragm, bloodvessels of the, nerves of thcj^ Page ii. 395 iii. 292. 333 325 ii. 53 Digastricus muscle, Digestion, observations upon the structure, of the organs of, Diseased bones, engravings of. Diseases of children at birthy •Dorsal vertebrae, nerves. Dorsalis penis nervus, Dorsi latissimus, longissimus, semispinalis, Dorso scapularis, super-acromialis. Duct, cystic, hepatic, pancreatic, parotid', thoracic. Ductus communis choledochus, incisivus. Duodenum, iutestinum, engravings of the, Dura mater of the brain, bloodvessels of the, processes of the, derangements of the, authors on derangements of the. Dysentery, true, appearances of the, described by Dr Donald Monro^ •> 1 169 iii. 468 i. 204 iii. 323 348 i. 452 384- 386- 451 ' 450 ii. 232 230 238 40 iii. 329 ii. 231 iii. 171 ii. 126 14T iii. 121 123. 269 121 217 255general index. 531 E Page Ear, anatomy of the, - iii. 174» chain of bones of the, * - 180 external cartilages of the, - 174< external cartilages of the muscles proper to the, - - 17G internal parts of the, - - 170 nerves of the, explanation of the plate of the, - 193 muscles of the, - 181 nerves of the, - 187 derangements of the, - 235 :— authors on the, - 256 of the foetus, peculiarities of the, 435 Ectropium, - - 233 Ectliyma, or terminthus, - - 246 Eighth pair of nerves, - »• 195. 284i Elbow, ligaments of the, - - i. 473 joints, veins, and nerves, explanation of the plate of the, - - iii. 318 Elephantiasis, - - 246 EminentiBB olivares, - - 133 pyramidales, - ib. Enamel of the teeth, formation of the, - ii. 20 Encanthis, - - iii. 234 Encysted tumours, - - 252 —.filled by fat and hairs, 253 Epicondilo cubitalis, - - i. 457 radialis, - - 45S super metacarpeus, —— unguialis. L 1 2 460 461,GENERAL INDEX. 532 Epitrochlo-metacarpeug, . carpalis, palmaris, radialis, phalangeus, Epidermis, Epididymis, Epigastric artery, Page - i. 459 460 440 458 462 iii. 197 ii. 43 iii. 354 varieties as to the course of the, ii. 88 situation of the, in respect to in- guinal hernia, in respect to crural hernia. Epiglottis of the larynx, Epiphyses of bones, Erector penis. Ergot of the brain, Ei-ythema, Erysipelas, Esophagus, - - . Ethmoides os, Ethmoidal sinuses, Eustachian tube, valve, of the foetus. Exanthemata or rashes third order of Will.^n, Expiration, muscles of, > Extensor brevis digitorum pedis, {brevior, longior, ulnaris. carpi radialis. digitorum communis, longus digitorum pedis, ossis metacarpi pollicis manus, primi internodii pollicis manus, ib. ib. 414 i. 19 iii. 58 130 242 ib. ii. 44 i. 299 iii. 141 179 436 239 ii. 277 i. 531 460 ib. 461 ib. 531 464 465GENERAL INDEX, 533 I ■ Extensor longus pollicis pedis, - ' i. 352 : secundi internodii pollicis manus, 465 triceps cubiti, - 456 Extra-uterine foetuses, - iii. 485 Extremity, superior, bones of the, - i. 401 ; aponeurosis of the, 447 bursae mucosae of the, 468 'I .. .... muscles of the, 446 ligaments of the, i. 471. iii. 291 inferior, bones of the, - i. 479 aponeurosis of the, - 51S bursae mucosae of the, 537 muscles of the, - 517 ligaments of the, 541 lymphatics of the, 369 Eye, and its appendages, - 142. 163 authors on the, - 211 coats of the, - 142 explanation of the plate of the, - 173 dropsy of the, - 229 diseases of the, - - 255 humours of the, - 152 bloodvessels of the, - 158 nerves of the, - 147.-162 of the foetus, peculiarities of the, - 434 Eye-ball, with its appendages, derangements of the, 223 cancer of the, - 231 coats of the, - 142 fungus haematodes of the, - 231 inflammation of the, - 227 Eye-lids, - • . 142 muscles of the, - 186 • derangements of the, 232 Ll3CR-NERAL index, 534. F Page Face, bones of the, . - • i. 315 bloodvessels of the, - iii. 265, 263 nerves of the, - 281 engravings of the muscles of the, ii. 76 Facial artery, - iii. 265 nen'cs, - - 281 Fallopian or uterine tubes, - 68 ' ■' ■ derangements of the, 95 False vertebrae, - - i. 211 Falx cerebri, * - iii. 121 minor cerebelli, - 122 Fascia lata femoris, - ii. 86 superficialis of the abdomen, - 72 transversalis of the abdomen, - 85 Fat, - - 207 uses of, - - 208 Fauces, engravings of the, - 69 derangements of the muscles of the, 159 Feet, ligaments of the bones of the, i. 553 Female form, peculiarities of the, - 557 ■ ' mammae, - - 318 Femoral artery, - iii- 355,356 _—— observations on the deviations from the usual course of the, - 394 vein, - -r 369 or crural nerve, - “ 573 Femoris, os, - i. 479 ligaments of the, - 545 Femori-calcaneus muscle, - iU- 530UENERAL INDEX., Fibula, lU. ligaments between the, Fibular artery, ■ ■ . ■ vein, nerve, r r Fifth pair of nerves, or par trigeminnm, distribu- tion of the, - - 262. Fingers and thumb, muscles of the, i. First pair of nerves, or olfactory, - iii. Fistula lacrymalis, Flaxman’s observations on the proportions of the body, - ■? i. Flexor accessorius digitorum jredis, ■ biceps cruris, cubiti. brevis digitorum pedis, pollicis menus, pedis. minimi digit! pedis. carpi radialis, ulnaris. r profundus, digitorum manus ^ ( sublimis perforatus. longus digitorum pedis, pollicis manus, pedis. parvus minimi digiti manus. Foetal bones, Foetus in utero, position of tlie, described by Dr \V. ' Harvey, - iii, peculiarities as to the structure of the, Ll4 Page 40Q 550 364. 368. 375 281 461 140 234 163 532 526 456 533 4-63 535 534 459 460 462 ib. 532 463 533 465 50 430 431536 general index. / Page Foetus in utero, brain, organs of the senses, and nerves of the, - iii, 434< peculiarities of the eye of the, - ib. ear of the, - 435 thoracic viscera of the, - ib. mammae of the, - 437 abdomen of the, and its contents, ib. assistant chylopoetic viscera of tho, 438 organs of urine and generation of the, 439 circulation of the blood in the, 442 nutrition of the, - 448 ^— malconformation and derangements of the, 445 imperfections in the skeleton of the, 456 shrivelled, - - 480 Foetuses, extra-uterine, - 485 Foetus, authors on the peculiarities of the, 490 Fons pulsatilis, - - i. 281 Food, of the theories by which it is converted into chyme, - - ii. 122 Foot-bones, of the, - i. 500 Foot, club, - - iii. 457 Foramen ovale, - - . 436 Fordyce’s, (Mr,) case and dissection of an axil- lary aneurism, - - 385 Fore-arm, of the, - i. 418 muscles of the, - ' 455 — and wrist, ligaments between the, 475 Formation of bone, . - 53 Fornix of the brain, . - - 127 Fossa navicularis, - ' - 170 sylvii of the brain, - 125 Fourth pair of nerves, or pathetic, 162 Fracture, general observations on, - 1^^ Fractured bones, authors on, - 169537 GENERAL INDEX. Page Fraenum linguae^ ■ *“ : labiorum pudendi, - iii. 70 Frontal bone, imperfect in foetus, - 3 sinuses, - 275. iii. 141 Frontis, os, - - i. 268 Frons superciliaris, • - iii* 1®^ Fungus of the cornea, - - 224 haematodes of the eye-bail, - 231. in the cellular substance, 253 tumours, - ii- 11T. G Gall’s, (Dr,) observations on tlie anatomy of the brain, - - iii. 131 Gall-bladder,, - ii. 232 • Gall, experiments on by Bichat, - 229 . authors upon the, with engravings of the bladder, - - 243 Gall-ducts, structure of the, - 233 Galvanism, authors on, - iii. 210 Ganglia of the nerves, - 232 observations on, 397 authors on, - 390 Ganglion, - - 253 solar, - - 339 Gangrene of bone, - i. 143 Gastric arteries, * - - iii. 333 veins, - - ' 337 juice, experiments on, - , ii. 117 effects on the food within the sto- mach, - - 118 Gastrocnemius muscle, . - - i, 530 Gemini, - .. 522GENERAL INDEX. 538 Generation, observations on, -* organs of, in the male,, —-— — situation,and con- nection of the. Page iii. 39.' ib. 42 61 70 74 female organs of, external parts of, in the female, authors on the organs of, and urine, bloodvessels of the organs of, - 343.347 — lymphatics of the organs of, 346 muscles, of the organs of, 58 '■— nerves, of the organs of, 348 ii, 66 64 iii 167 ii. 381 iii. 130 129 55 436 ii. 42 41 iii. 320 ii. 423. iii. 330 346 Genio-hyoglossus muscle, —~— hyoideus muscle. Glands, lacrymal, parotid, pineal, ——— pituitary, prostate, thymus, sublingual, submaxillary, axillary, bronchial, — iliac, lumbar, inguinal, of Cow^per, mesenteric, popliteal, renal, salivary, — tracheal, 347 370 56 ii. 288 iii. 370 4 ii. 38 421GENERAL INDEX. 539. Page Glandulae coneatenatae colli. iii. 280 - odoriferse of the penis, - 16 Gians penis. - 15 clitorklis, ■ 71 Glosso - palatinus, ii. 59 pharyngeus nervus. - ■ iii. 195 Glutea artei’ia, ■' - 351 'maximus, L 520 Gluteus < medius. 521 minimus, ib. Goitre or broiichocele. ii. 435 Gordias, - iii. 255 Gracilis muscle. i. 52T Gravid uterus, jiosition of the. * iii. 417 authors on the. - 490 Great sympathetic nerve, 271. 286. 326 Gubernaculum, of the testes of the foetus, descrip- tion by Mr J. Hunter, - 440 Gula or gullet, - ii. 44 Gullet, explanation of the Plates of the engravings of the, - - 47. 69 Gyri of the cochlea, - iii. J86 II Haemorrhoids, - ii. 181 Haemorrhoidalis arteria J" interna, media, • iii. 337 352 Hair, - 205 analysis of, - 206 Hand, bones of the, - i. 427 muscles of the, - 459 Haller, Baron, description of the rise of the aorta, • ii. 33SGENERAL INDEX 540 Haller’s, (Baron,) description of the ratio of the branches of an artery to its trunk, ^ - ii. 342 — experiment to prove that the • • heart contracts by the sti- mulus of the blood, - 252 ■1' ' ■ observations on the action of the intercostal muscles, 392 observations on the How of blood through the ramifica- tions of the arteries, - 355 Harvey’s (Dr William) description of the position of the foetus in utero, - iii. 430 J Iatchett’s (Mr) analysis of the cuticle, 198 Head of the, - - i, 256 arteries of the, - iii. 263, 276 ligaments of the, - i. 394 lymphatics of the, - iii. 279 neWes of the, - . 281 muscles which move the, - i. 387 ■ on the fore-part of the, ii. 48 i. 350 361 ii. 331 329 11 334 , 338 339 ib. iii. 331 ii. 363 371 374 iii. 459 size and form of the, changes of the, in hydrocephalus chronicus. Heart, of the, structure of the, course of the muscular fibres of the, pulmonic or anterior part of the, — posterior or systematic, .... — bloodvessels of the, nerves of the, lymphatics of the, authors upon the structure of the, aneurisms of the, authors upon the derangements of the, malconformation of the, IGENERAL INDEX. 541 Helix of the ear, f major, \ minor, Hepatic artery, - ' veins, nerves, Hernite or ruptures, engravings of. Herpes, . Hip joint, ligaments of the, synovial apparatus of the. Page iii. 175 177 334 338 339 ii. 190 215 iii. 243 i. 545 545 Home’s (Mr) measurements of the male urethra, iii. 14 observations on the form of the sto- mach, - ii. 113 Human body, composition of the, - i. 2 faeces, analysis of, - ii. 134 semen, - - iii. 59 analysis of, - 60 Humeral artery, - - 296 deviations from the usual course of the, 301.393 explanation of Plate of the, 309 veins, - 307 i. 412 456 45S iii. 152 Humeri, os, Humero ulnaris, super-radialis. Humours of the eye, PIunter’s, (Dr William,) description of the de- cidua reflexa, observations on the lungs of the foetus. (Mr John), description of the guberna- culum of the testes o^the foetus, (Dr John,) description of small hyda- tids, « " ii, 2^6 423 445 440GENERAL INDE^i. 54Q iii. 239 Pa^B Hydatids, varieties of, - ii. 252 of the sac of, - 253 - ' coats of, - 259 bloodvessels of, - 260 • different states in which they are found, 262 — manner in which the cysts of, are formed, 263 —:—^ effects of, upon the organs which contain them, - 264< Hydrocephalus chronicus, - iii. 219 See plate xxi.. —— acutus, authors on, Hymen, ‘ thickened, Hyo-glossus muscle, Hyoides, os, diseases of the Hyo-thyroideus muscle. Hypogastric artery, vein, • ■ ■ --— nerves, Hypoplum of the eye. ib. 254 71 89 ii. 66 29 155 65 343 iii. 369 340 227 I J Jaw-bone, lower, muscles w'hich move the. Jaws and teeth. Jaw, varieties of the, at different periods of life, under, articulation of the, described, Jejunum, Icthyosis, - ; i. 342 ii. 51 8 26 i. 347 12S54.3 GENERAL INDEX Iliac arteries and veins, glands, Iliacus internus, Ilio-abdominalis medius, femoralis, , - costalis, or iliaca interna minor, —— prje-tibialis, —— rotulai'is, trochantinus, —— ti’ochanterius major, — minor. Page iii. 343, 350, 352, 354, 369 346 i. 523 ii. 78 L 519 517 350 526 ■ 524 523 521 ib. ii. 128 i. 216 iii. 244 181 i. 518 479 iii. 368, 369 Ilium intestinum, Impetigo, or ring-worm, Incus, or anvil, Inferior extremity, aponeurosis of the, — l)ones -of the, ■ — bloodvessels of the, deviations of the course of tlie arteries of the, - 367 : 7-*— bursje mucosse of the, - i. 537 '■ —■ in the back view of the, ligaments of the, lynaphatics of the, muscles of the, nerves of-the. Inflammation of the vascular svstcin, Infra-orbitary artery, , — nerve, ’ ■ spinajus muscle. Infundibulum of the brain. 530 541 iii 369 i. 5^17 iii. 371 372 .268 282 i. 453 iii. 129general index. 54>4f f . ' ■ ... .1. of the course of the. ib. Page Infundibulum of the cochlea, - iii. 185 kidneys, • - 3 Inguinal glands, - - 370 hernia, - - 192 situation of the bloodvessels in re- spect to, - ii. 192 Innominata, ossa, - - i. 216 ■ — and sacrum, connection of the 'j 232 arteria. iii. 192 Inspiration, muscles which accomplish, - ii. 389 Intercostal muscles, of the, ib. obsen^ations on, by Dr Monro, i. 105 arteries and veins. 111. 294, 322 nerves. 328 Intercosto-humerales, 318 Intei'nal hernia. ii. 201 explanation of plate of. - 202 parts in the male, description of the ■5 81 Interosseal arteries of the fore arm. iii. 297. S12‘ Intei’ossei manns. • 1. 467 pedis. 536 Interspinales et intertransversales, S (^dorsi. - ii. 357 ib. Intervertebral substance. • 1. 185 Intestinal canal, ii. 125 ^ arteries and veins of the. - 141 nerv^es of the, - 142 derangements of the, ii. 162, iii. 470 worms. 262 Intestines, smaller. • • 11. 126 coats of the 134 engravings of the. A- M 147 Intestines, larger, 131GENERAL INDEX, 545 Page Intestines, larger, contents of tlie. ii. 133 — engravings of the. 148 authors on the. 146 mucous glands of the. 139 absorbents of the. 287 Intus-susceptio, 187 Intervertebral substance. i. 185 Iris, or moveable curtain. iii. 149 derangements of the. 230 Ischia tic artery. 353 nerve. 374 Ischii trochanteri muscles. i. 522 femoralis sub-pubo, sub-pubi. 523 Ischio cavernosus muscle. iii. 58 —-— coccygeus muscle. ii. 145 — peroneus muscle. i. 526 perinealis. ii. 144 pretiabilis, i. 526 sub-tibialis, 526 Ischio trochanterus. 522 Ischium, os. 224 Isthmus Vieussenii, ii. 335 Iter a palato ad aurem. iii. 179 Jugular vein, external, 273 internal. 276 K Kidneys, iii. 1 bloodvessels of the, 3 : nerves of the. VOL. nr M mGENERAL INDEX. 546 Pngo Kidneys, explanation of plate of tl^e, - iii. 5 diseases of the, - 29 Knee-joint, ligaments of the, - i. 547 movements of the, - 497 bursae mucosae of the, r 538 — synovial apparatus of the, ^50 Labia pudendi. diseases of the, authors on diseases pf the, Labial arteries, Labialis muscle, Labyrinth of the ear, Lapryraal artery, -^-5 gkml, ducts, sac, Lacteal vessels. iii. 70 88 96 265 ii. 55 iii. 184 270 167 1G8 170 ii. 289 observations on, by Dr Monbo 2^1^% 299 of the course of the, 290 glands, situation and structure of the. Lactiferous ducts of the. mammae, Lamellae of bones. Lamina spiralis of the cochlea of the ear. Larynx, ligaments of the, muscles of the, glands connected with the, physiology of the, derangements of the, 289 319 i. 25 iii. 185 ii. 411 415 416 420 418 ii. 427. iii. 470GENERAL I^DEX. 547 Pag? Larynx, thickening of the cartilages of the, iii. 431 ossification of the, - ih.- —; ulceration of the inner membrane of the, ii. 432 —: diseases of parts connected with the, —7^— abscesses situated on the, authors on the, Laryngea, arteria, Laryngeus nervus superior. Lateral ventricles of the brain, nasal artery, ■— nerve, Latissimus dorsi muscle, - Laxator tyrapani muscle, Leach’s, Dr, observations on intestinal worms, measurements of the cranium. Leg, bones of the, and tarsus, ligaments connecting the muscles of the, Lepra, L’Ercule Farnese, r Leucoma, r Levator anguli oris, t ani, - labii inferioris, : superioris alajque nasi, menti, - r oculi, palati. Lichen, L,gan,e„ta Ligaments, observations on, - ' by Caldani, M m g 435 437 436 iii. 293 285 127 260 . 281 i. 452 iii. 181 ii. 206 i. 354 485 551 524 228. 245 i. 566 224 ii. 56 143 57 56 57 iii, 160 ii. 58 iii. 237 iii. 65 i. 75548 GENERAL INDEX, J^igaments of the head, ’ of the vertebroe, ■ of the ribs, of the breast bone, of the liver. iii. 394. 395 396. 541 397 ii. 220 of the pelvis, w i. 397 of the uterus, . - iii. 65 of the womb, state of the, at the ninth month of pregnancy, 414 of the clavicle and scapula, i. 471 — — of the superior extremity, ib. — of the elbow-joint, 7 475 — between the radius and ulna, 474 — between the fore arm and Avrist, 475 —^—:: between the carpal and metacarpal bones, - 476 r articular of the metacarpal bones, 477 r- — for retaining the tendons of the mus- cles of the hand, fingers and thumb, ib. ■:—^—r of the inferior extremity, 541 .—:— of the hip-joint, - 545 of the knee joint, - 547 : of the pelvis, described by Loder, i. 544 —: of the shoulder, described by Caldani, 472 1 — ■;— Weitbrecht, ib. of the patella, - 550 : behveen the tibia and fibula, 551 connecting the bones of the leg, tarsus pnd metatarsus, - ib. of the tarsus, - 552 ^ bones of the feet, - 553 connecting the bones of the tarsus and jnetatarsus, and metatarsal bones to ■ ' each other, «• 5^3549 GENERAL INDEX. Page Ligaments of the spine, described by Monro Imus i. 1S8 of the phalanges of the toes, 554 Ligamentum suspensorium penis, iii. 58 — denticulatum, - S88 Ligaments, moderator the, of the head, described by Ur Monro Imus^ _ i, 203 Lingual artery, - - 264 Lips and cheeks, - ii. 33 malconformation and diseases of the, - 153 'Liquor pericardii, analysis of the, by Dr Bostock, 329 amnii, - . iii. 419; 452 ^ ^ analysis of the, - 419 Liver, of the adult, ^ - ii. 219 *- bloodvessels of thej - 226 authors upon the, with engravings, 243 • derangements of the, ii. 247. iii. 470 ' - 249 - ib. 269 - 271 ib. 282 175 125 ii. 222 384 i. 5 391 384 342 51 gangrene of the, ' induration of the, unnaturally soft, rupture of the, - worms of the, authors on the derangements of the, Lobe of the ear, Lobes of the brain, of the liver, of the lungs. Locomotion, organs of, liongus colli, Longissimus dorsi. Lower jaw-bone, ' ■ ~ muscles which move the, Mm3GENERAL INDEX. 550 Lumbar arteries, - , jjj 34,(^ glandsj - - 347 nerves, - . 37 j vertebrae, - . j, gos Liimbb abdomihalis muscle^ . 79 liumeralis, - . i 453 Lumbricales manus, - * 402 pedis, - 633 Lunarc, os, - .. 439 Lungs, - - ii. 388 structure of the, - 381 bloodvessels of the^ . - SS7 lymphatics of the, i ii. 388. iii. 330 nerves of the, - - 388 lobes and lobules of the, - .384i coats of the, - ib. air-tubes of the, - ib. air cells of the, - 386 derangements of the, ii. 403. iii. 470 inflammation of the, - 403 authors on the derangements of the, 403 of the foetus, observations on the, iii. 445 Lymphatics, utility of a knowledge of the course of the, &c. - ii. 294 observations on the distributioh and anastomoses of the, iii. 376. 394 of the head and neck, - 279 : authors on the. Lymphatic system, derangements of the, ii. 309 glands, situation and structure of tlie 289 Lyra fornicis of the brain, - iii. 128GENERAL INDEX. ' 551 M Page Magna pollicis arteria, am iii. 300 Magnum vel capitatum, os. m i. 433 Malconformation of the foetus^ - iu. 455 brain and organs of the senses, 558 * — heart, 459 — skeletonj ^ 450 1 lips. - 153 Malleolar arteriesj 364 Malarum, ossa, - i. 323 n/r 11 1 r externiisj Malleolus < . / 493 ( internus. 489 Malleus, or hammer. - iii. 180 Malpighi, Observations on structure of glands. ii. 36 on spleen. - 237 described muscular fibres of tongucj 67 Mamma;, m ii. 318 — of the foetus. - 347 Maiilmary arteries. m. 292. 294 nerves, 311 Manducation and deglutition. of the organs of. ii. 8 uerungemenis oi tne . organs of. 152 MarcEtt’s (Dr) analysis of the blood, 327 table of analyses of the animal flu- ids. - 327 MatrdWi i. 3i —— analysis of the. M ib. Massa carnea, 532 M m 4I S52 G-ENERAL jnd-ex Masseter, _ ^ Mastioation and deglutuL, .nuade. aubaervlent to." II Mastoidn. ’ Mastoido, auricularis, — mentalis. Mater, 1 pm, Maxilla, inferior, Maxillaria superiora, ossa. Maxillary artery, external, internal, vein, nerve, superior, inferior. , Maxillo-liyoideus muscle, labialis inferior, Measles, Meatus auditorius externus, in tern us. Meconium, Mediae cerebri arteria. Median vein, nerve. Mediastinum, Medulla oblongata, spinalis, ' of the bones, analysis of the. iii. 176 ii. 53 iii. 121 124. I 342 325 iii. 265 267 273. 276 281 282 ii. 63 56 iii. 240 178 188 438' 272 307 312 ii. 382 iii. 133 288 i. 31 iii. 252 178 IMeliceris, Membrana tympani. Membranes or secundines, at the ninth month of , pregnancy, . . Mento labialis, . ’ , ii. 57 Mesenteric bloodvessels, - iii. 335. 337 glands, - ii. 28$563 GENERALINDEXf ' Mcselnteric nerves, ‘ - in. Metacarpal bones, ‘ - - i. —articular ligaments of the, Metacarpo-phalangei laterales, phalangeus pollicis, Metatarsal bones. artery, - - iii. Metatarso sub-phalangeus pollicis, i. —— transversalis pollicis, Milk of the cow, analysis of, , - ii. Milt-like tumour of mucous membranes. Modiolus of the ear, - ' iii. Mollities ossiura, , - - i. : authors on. Monro’s (Dr Imus) observations on spina rentosa, Monro’s, (Dr 2d“s) observations on the oblique muscles, Monro’s (Dr observations on the anastomoses of arteries, iii. — observations on the ganglia of nerves, —— —- experiment on the hedgehog, ii. theory of sensation, —— discovery of the passage of com- munication between the la- teral ventricles of the brain, — ■ ■ account of the structure of the cochlea of the ear, II description of the ramification of the portio mollis on the internal ear, Page 340 437 477 467 464 511 364 535 ib. 326 173 185 ' 135 167 144 105 385 103 120 113 127 186 mCENERALINDEX. 554 Pag* Monro’s (Dr statement from experiments and cases, that arteries may be tied without occasioning mor- tification, - ii. 380 observations and experiments on tlie crystalline lefts, 153 * observations on the ttibes of the testicle^ - 40 • ' ' '■■■'riv— description of monstrous foetu- ses, - iii. 450 Morgagni’s observations 6ti the form of stomach, ii. 111 ■■ — description of the parotid duct, 40 —— on the effect of injuries of the liver, 271 description of glands of glans penis, iii. 10 of third lobe of prostate gland, - 55 Morohen’s measurements of the Apollo Belvedere, Venus of Medicis, and Hercules Farnese, App. i. 5C2 Mortification of the vascular system. ii. 372 Motion of bones, different kinds of* i--18 Motores oculorum, or third pair of nerves, iii. 162 Mouth and appendages, soft parts of the. ii. 30 engravings of the, 69 Muscles and tendons, observations on. (X) bloodvessels of* 86 lymphatics of* ib. nerves of, - ib. tendons of. 88 classification of* - - 91 Mayow’s observations on* 123 nomenclature of* 91 origin and insertion of. 92 — chemical analysis of* ^ ib.. GtNERAL INDEX* 555 Page Muscles, contraction of, - i. 93 voluntary, involuntary, mixed, - 94» —^ relaxation of, - 97 ——~ observations on the collocation of, 93 strength of, - •* 101 —^ oblique, - » - ' ’104< direction of the fibres of, &c,,- ’ - 105 ——— layers of, - - 381 classes of, - - 384 MhsCulorum brevis descriptio, by Dr Mavow,- i. 126 Mtiscular action, velocity of, - ' ' 132 — effect of custom on, ' 132 effects of imitation ahd sj^rj^ipathy upon, ' 133 —= passions of th^ mind, effect of, on, 133 Muscles, very faithfully represented by MickAEt- Angelo, - 135 authors on the, - 134 observations on the diseases of the, 174 — awanting, - 175 explanation of Plates of the, 177. 393 Musculo cutaneous nerves of the superior extremi- ty, - - iii. 316 — phrenic artery,. - 292 Mylo-hyoideus muscle, m ii. 63556 generalINDEXrf N Nsevi materni, Narium compressor. Nasi al^ f depressor,-1 (_ levator, J ■ ■" ossa, . - Naso palpebralis, Nates cerebri, . •• • . r Navel-string, Naviculare, os, * ' , Neck, arteries of the, lymphatics of the, muscles on the fore-part of the, > nerves of the, —■— vertebrae of the, — — peculiarities of the. Necrosis osslum, authors on. Nervous system, observations on the, energy, not electrical. Nerves, cerebral, plexuses of the, ganglia of, terminations pf the, • . * analysis of, observations on the functions of the, experiments on the, distribution of the, , of the head and neck, - corresponding with the bloodvessels of neck and thorax, — of the abdomen, 5 iii. 250 140 ib. i.319 165 iii. 130 420 i. 505 iii. 263 279 ii. 60 iii. 308 i. 194 196 167 iii. 99 117 134 101 103 105 107 108 112 261 181. 308 the 325 338. 371GENERAL INDEX, 557 I Page Nerves of the superior extremity. iii. 308 inferior 371 observations on the distribution, and anas- tomoses of the. 376. 395 plexuses of, 101 authors on the, 209 derangements of the, iii. 407 Ninth pair of nerves. iii. 195. 286 Nipple, ii.319 Noli me tangere, iii. 222 Nomenclature of muscles, observations on, i. 91 Noni descendens nervus, 195. 2S6 Nose, of the, 138 bones of the, . ib. —^— cartilages of the. 139 ■ • ■ ■ ■ muscles of the, j40 nerv'es of the, ^ ib. sinuses of the, - » fJ41 derangements of the, 221 ■ authors on the structure of the. 210 Nutrition, ii. 358 — of the foetus in utero. iii. 448 Nymphfe, - IT 71 0 Obliquus ascendens internus, ii. 78 capitis inferior. • CO CD superior. ib. descendens abdominis, ii. 73 Observations on bones, ' i. 40 the ovari6, - - iii. 441GrE^JERAL INDEX. Obsen'ations on the deviations from the usual course of the carotid, Bubclavian, humeral, ulnm", ir^dpl, and femo- ral arteries, . iij. 393 1 the lungs of the foetus, 4,45 — ^ tlie formation and nae of the pla- centa, upon the womb and liquor amnji. Obturator artery, externns muscle, ' interims -r— nerve. Occipital artery, veiii, Occipitis, os, Occiplto-frontalis muscle, CEsophageal arteries, CEsophagean plexuses of nerves, CEsophagus, or gullet, Oiecrano-scapularis, Olfactory, or first pair of nerves. Omenta, derangements of the, Onio-hyoideus muscle. Ophthalmic artery, nerves, Opponens pollicis. Optic nerve, amaurosis of the, Orbiculare, os, Ofbicularis, os, r palpebrarum, Orbito-palpebralis, v 450 451 iii. 353 i. 524 522 373 iii. 266 273 i. 291 ii. 4^ iii. 322 326 ii. 44 i. 456 iii. 14) ii. 240 281 i. 451 ii. 64 i’li. 269 162 i. 463 iii. 146 230 ISl ii. 55 iii. 165 166GENERAL INDEX. 559 Page Oibit, observation on the form of, - i. 269 ^— nerves, of the contents of the, 162 Organs of the senses, - - 138 authors on, - 254 Organ of hearing, - - 174 authors on the, f 212 ■ of taste, - - . 194 of touch, - r 197 Organic diseases of pregnant women, - 463 derangements of the placenta, - iii. 488 Organs of urine, - - . 483 generation in the male, - 39. 42 — female, 61 f—-—^ derangements of the, 79. 83 —-7 authors on the, 74. 87. 96 urine and generation, bloodvessels of the 34j. 343. 347. — varieties of arte- ries of the, iii. 345 r lymphatics of the, 346 nerves of the, 34-8 : : in the foetus, 439 Oris anguli depressor, - ii. 56 levator, - - ib. Os liyoides and tongue, muscles of the, 61 63 Osteo-sarcoma, - - i. 153 described by Severinus, 153 Os tincae, - - iii. 54 Ossification, phenomena, and process of, i. 57 —: of the vascular system of, ii. 3/2 placenta, - iji. 468 Ovaria, - - 63 state of the, at the ninth month of preg- nancy, . r ' 418OENiRAL INDEX, 560 Ovaria, observations on the, Page iii. 441 Ovarium, derangements of the, - 94 P Palate, ii. 35 muscles of the, 38 represented by Santorini, 35 diseases of the, 155 Palati, circumflexus. 58 levator. ib. ossa, , i. 333 Palatina ascendens arteria. iii. 265 Palato-maxillary artery. 268 ——— nerve, »• 282 pharyngeus. ii. 59 uvularis. ib. Palmaris arteria profunda, iii. 300 longuS, i. 449 brevis. ib. Palmaro-cutaneus, ib. Palmo-phalangeus, r 402 Palpebrarum orbicularis, « iii. 165 Pancreas, ii. 237 explanation of Plate of the, - 239 authors upon the. 243 derangements of the, » 279 Papilla, or nipple. 319 PapilliB of the tongue. 37 Papulae of the skin. iii. 23? Par trigeminum, or fifth pair of nerves, 262. 281 Parietalia, ossa, - - i. 278GENERAL INDEX* S6l Parotid duct, land, T/dge ■ . ii. 40 38 Par vagum of the eighth pair of nerves, iii. 284, 325,339 i. 495 650 Pathetic, or fourth pair of nerves, Pectinalis, Pectoralis major, • - minor Patella, or knee-pan, ligaments of the. iii. 162 i. 523 :} Peculiarities as to the structure of the foetus, Pedes hippocampi. Pedis interossei, Pelvis, bloodvessels of the, Camper’s measurements of the, bones of the, peculiarities of the, in different nations, ligaments of the bones of the, front view of tlie, back view of the, muscles of the, nerves of tlie, plate of the. Pemphigus, Penis, bloodvessels of the, muscles of the, - ligamentum suspensorium, lymphatics of the, ^ nerves of the, derangements of the body of the, I’erforans Casserii, Perforantes arteriae femorls, N n 450, 452 iii. 431 130 i. 536 iii. 349 i. 234 216 235 397, 541 542 543 517 iii. 371 i. 235 iii. 242 57 58, 344 58 ib. ib. ib. 83 316 359 VOL. III.GENERAL INDEX 562 Page Pericardium, structure of the, - ii. 329 derangements of the, - 373 inflammation, of three varieties of the, 372 Pericardiac arteries, iii. 323 Perichondrium of cartilages, • i. 67 Perinsei transversalis, ii. 144, iii. 69 Periosteum, • i. 43 Peritoneum, ii. 108 authors on the, m 146 Pernio, or chilblain. m iii. 245 Perone or fibula. i. 490 muscles which arise from. 529 Peroneal arteries. - iii. 365 Pcroneo-metatarseus magnus. - i. 529 tarseus. m ib. super-unguialis. - 531, 532 Peroneus brevis. - 529 longus. m ib. Perspiration, observations on. m iii. 213 — — authors on, - ib. Petro-palatinus muscle. ii. 58 Phalanges, bones of the. • i. 444 Pharyngeal artery. iii. 265 nerve, - 284 Pharyngeo-palatinus, - ii. 59 Pharynx, - . 43* muscles of the. - 68 plate of the. - 46 explanation of the plate of the. ib. authors on the. - 69, 70 derangements of the muscles of the. 159 Phlegmon, - iii. 251 Phrenic nerve, • m • 325563 GENERAL INDEX. * Page Pla mater of the brain, iii. 124. Pineal gland, - 130 Pisiforme, os, - i. 431 Pituitary gland, - iii. 129 Pityriasis, - 239 Placenta, - 421 observations on the formation and use of the, 450 organic derangements of the. 488 of ossification in the, - ib. Plantar arteries and arch. - 365 nerves. - 375 Plantaris muscle. • i. 530 Planto-sub-phalangeus, - 533 Platysma myoides, * - ii. 60 Pleura, - 321 Polypi, observations on, - 175 Fompholyx, - iii. 243 Pomum Adami, - ii. 412 Pons Varolii, - iii. 132 Popliteal artery, - 361 ^ glands. - 371 vein. - 368 nerve. - 375 Poplito-tibialis, - i. 527 Portarum, vena. - iii. 337 Portio mollis. Dr Monro’s sen. description of the, 188 explanation of plate of the. 193 dura of the seventh paii’ of nerves, 192, 283 Position of the foetus in utero. - 430 Praedorso-atloideus, - i. 391 P rpel u mbo-trochanterus. - 522 . Nn Q-^^4? 6en£ral index. Page 1 regnancy, state of the ovarla at the ninth month " - iii. 413 I’regnant women, organic diseases of, - 438 Pregnancy, diseases subsequent to, - ib. I’repuce of the penis, - . i g derangements of the, - S3 Profunda humeri, - _ 296 inferior, or minor, - ib, femoris arteria, - 357 Pronator radii teres, - i, 458 quadratus, - 459 Prostate gland, - iii. 55 third lobe of the, described by San- torini, - 55 — derangements of the, - 85 Prurigo, - . 237 Psoas magnus, - - i. 522 Psora, ' - - iii. 244 Psoriasis, ' - - 238 Pterygium, - . 224 Pterygo-raaxillaris minor, superior, - ii. 53 major, inferior, - ib. r externus, - ib. 1 terygoideus . Cinternus, - ib, Pterygo-palatinus, - - 58 Pubo-femoralis, - - i. 523 pretiabilis, - - 227 sub-umbilicalis, - ii. 80 Pubis, os, - - i, 527 state at birth, - 228 crural arch connected with, - 227 angle of different, in [the male and fe- male, and in different nations, 235565 «E>i£RAL INDEX. ' Page ?*odic arteries, - iii. 344 — external. . - 356, 357 veins, - 358 nerves, - ib. Pulmonary artery, - ii. 337, iii. 261 ■ ■ — veins. - 262 plexuses of nerves, 326 Puncta lacrymalia, - 169 Pupil of the eye. - 149 Pupillaris, membrana. - ui. 434 Purpura, or petechiae sine febre, 241 Purulent ophthalmia. - 226 of children, 226 Pylorus, - ii. 110 Pyloric artery. - iii. 334 Pyramidal cartilages, - ii. 413 Pyramidalis muscle, - 80 Pyriformis muscle. - i. 521 Pyramidalia corpora, 1 ' iii. 135 Q Quadratus femoris, r L 522 lumborum, - 517 R lladial artery. m iii 299 deviations from the usual course of the, 394 N n3Oj£NER.AL index. 566 Page Hadial, or median nerve, - iii. 312 Radialis-indicis, - 300 Radio sub-unguialis, - i. 463 Radius, - - 423 Radialis and ulna, ligaments between the, 474 Kanina arteria, ' - - lii. 263 Ranula, - - 253 Rectum intestinum, - ii. 140 figures of the, - 148 Rectus abdominis, - 70 anterior cruris, • i. 524 ’— inferior, - - Hi. 160 ■ —■ ' ' ■ superior oculi, - ib. i. 390 391 ib. ► 390 ib. iii. 285 299 297 341, 347 41 Respiration, observations on, - H- 381 mechanism by which it is performed, 3S8 — effects of, on the blood, - 397 upon the atmospherical air, 393 ■- authors on, - 399 Rete mucosum of the skin, - Hi. 199 Retina, - - 146 Retrahentes aurem, - 176 Rhomboidenj muscle, ^ i. 451 . . . r major, • <— capitis anticus , ^ 4 minor, lateralis, — posticus major, ■ minor, Recurrrent nerve of the eighth pair, radial artery, ulnar artery. Renal arteries and veins, glands, N t567 GENERAL INDEX. Page Ribs, - - i. 237 peculiarities of the, - 242 ligaments of the, - 3q6 Riche rakd’s case, where the inside of the stomach was exposed, - - ii. 121 Ring-worm, - - iii. 244 Roseola, - ' - 241 Rotula, or patella, - i. 493 Round worm*, - - ii. 207 Rubeola or measles, - iii. 240 — inoculation of, attempted by Dr Francis Home, - ii. 298 different kinds of, - iii. 240 Ruysch’s description of the structure of the glands, ii, 361 Gsssification of the liga- ment passing the sty- loid process of the temporal bone and OS hyoides, ii.,.S2 Ruptured uterus, - 484 Ryan’s, (Dr) account of the irregularities of dis- tribution of the humeral artery, 302 - femoral artery, iii. 360 S Sacral median artery. 350 lateral arteries, - 351 nerves. - • 374 Sacro-costalis, - • i. 384 ■■■ ■ femoralis, - M 520 N n 4general index. iii. 240 66s rags Sacro-lumbans, . - i. 38i spinalis, - . ib. trochantcrius, - - 521 Sacrum, os, - - 214 state at birth, - ib. Saliva, chemical analysis of the, - ii. 42 Salivary glands, - - 38 wounds and diseases of the ducts of the, derangements of the, concretions, 156 ib. 157 156 Salle’s (Mr) case of mollities ossium, Santorini’s description of the third lobe of the prostate gland, iil. 55 ———‘ muscles of the throat, ii. 69 plate of the muscles of the face, 70 Saphienae venae, Saphaenus nervus of Fischer, Sarcomata, Sartorius muscle of the thigh, f tympani, Scala -c ", (_ vestibuli, Scaphoides, os, Scapula, ligaments of the, Scapulae levator, Scapular arteries, nerves, Scapulo-humeralis, Scapulo-hjroideus, radialis, Scarlatina^ iii. 368 373 253 Ii. 526 iii. 185 ib. i. 429 405 471 450 iii. 294, 295 312 i. 454 451 456GENERAL INDEX S69 Page Scarpa’s description of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, - i. 300 plate of the eustachian valve, Note, ii. 336 book on ear referred to, - iii. 435 book on the ganglia of the nerves re- ferred to, Sciatic artery, nerve, - Sclerotic coat. Scrotum, derangements of the. Second pair of nerves, or optic, Secundines, Semen, organs for preparing the, muscles for expelling the. Semicircular canals of the ear. Semilunar solar ganglion. Semi-membran osus, Seminal vessels, Semi-spinalis colli, • dorsi, Senertus on aneurism, Semi-tendinosus, Senses, organs of the. Sensation, theory of, by Dr Monro senior, Septum, cerebri or falx, cerebelli, lucidum, scroti, Serratus anticus major, Sesamoidea, ossa, » 399 353 374 143 44 79 146 418 43 58 184 339 i. 526 iii. .342, 347 i. 386 ib. ii. 370 526 iii. 120 111 118 121 122 127 44 i. 449 515GENERAL INDEX. 610 Page Seventh pair of nerves, . iii. 1157 Shoulder, ligaments of the, - i. 471 blade, - - 405 "■ ■ muscles of the,' - 449 Shrivelled foetus, ' - . iii. 4so Sinus venosus of the heart, ii. 335 Sinuses of the dura mater, iu. 123 ——— connected with the nose, - 141 derangements of the, - 221 Sixth pair of nerves, or abducentis, > 163 Skeleton, divisions of the, - i. 183 different kinds of, - ’ 7 — purposes subservienti - i ib. authors on the distinction between the male and female, - 60 of the foetus, imperfections in the, t . iii. 456 Skin, - - 197 physiology of the, - - 202 — seat of the sense of touch, - ib. organ of absorption, - ^ 203 secretion, - 204 authors on absorption by the, - . 214 derangements of the, - 236 cancer of the, - 250 authors on diseases of the, - 256 worms found under the, - 258 •' Skull, distinctions between, imperfectly shewn by Dr Camper’s facial line, - i. 316 surfaces of the, - 256 shape of the, &c., - 349, 873 position of the, with regard to the spine, 349 —measurements of the, by Dr Leach, 351, 354571 GENERAL INDEX. , Page Small-pox, - - iii. 247 Soi:mmering’s (Professor) remarks on the foetus, 429 pylorus, ii. 116 — -■ diseases of nerves, iii. 409 plate of the female skele- ton, - i. 66 —— —-— observations on the ac- tion of the digastric . • muscle of the neck, ii. 54 ' j description of the mus- culus anomalus maxil- laris superioris, - 50 — description of the aper- ture in the retina, iii. 149 Sole of the foot, bursie mucosie of the, - i. 54Q Soleus muscle, _ , 530 Spallanzani’s observations on the flow of blood through vessels of different sizes, - ii. 356 Spermatic arteries and veins, - iii. 342, 347 cord, - . 51 derangements of the, - 82 Sphenoidal sinuses, - i. 313, iij. 14,1 Sphenoides, os, . ^ i. 305 Sphincter ani, - . 14j • labiorum, - _ 14^ — vagime, . . iii, 59 Spina ventosa, described by Dr Monro ImuB^ j, 144 Spinal marrow, of the, . jii, 235 coverings of the, ' .. ib. arteries and veins of the, 290, 291 Spinalis dorsi, - « i 386 - S m 184572 GENERAL INDEX. Spine, advantages resulting from, consisting of se- veral bones, muscles of the, causes of deformity of the, Spiral nerve, Splanchnisi rami. Spleen, authors upon the, with engravings, derangements of the, inflammation of the, very small, ossified, stony concretions in the, preternatural softness of the, ruptured. Splenic artery, vein. nerves. Pigb i. 189 384 192 iii. 315 338 ii. 236 242 276 ib. 2T7 278 ib. ib. ib. iii. 333 337 340 i. 388 333. 337 iii. 57 238 183 181 225 Splenius capitis, Spongiosa, ossa, Spongiosum, corpus urethrae. Squamae, 2d Order of Dr Willan, Stapedius, Stapes of the ear. Staphyloma of the cornea, Stark’s, Dr, description of tubercles of the lungs, ii. 404 Steatoma, Sterno-cleido mastoideus, Sterno - humeralis, hyoideus, pubalis, thyroideus, " Sternum, iii. 253 ii. 60 i. 452 64 79 64 248GENERAL INDEX, 573 Page Stomach, - ” 109 form of the, - - 111 ^ bloodvessels of the, iii. 333. 337 nerves of the, - 338 of the coats of the, - ii. 115 ^ and intestines, air within the, 124 derangements of the, - 162 — engravings of the, - 146 authors on the structure of the, 145 contraction of the middle of the, ii. Ill Strophulus, - - iii. 237 Stye, - - 233 Stylo-glossus, - * ii. 67 hyoideus, - - 65 pharyngeus, - - 69 Subacromio humeralis, - i. 454 Subclavian artery, and its branches, iii. 291 varieties as to the distribution of the, - 300 — • ■ observations on the deviations of the, from the usual course, 393 veins corresponding with the, 30S. 324 Subclavius, Sub-lingual gland, Sub-maxillary gland. Sub-occipital nerves, Sub-pubo coccygeus, sub-pubi, ischii femorales, trochanterus externus, internus, i. 451 ii. 42 41 iii. 309 ii. 14.3 i. 523 524 .522 454 Sub-scapularis,GENERAL INDEX. fage Sub-scapulo trochineus, i. 464 Supercilia, or eye-brows, iii. 166 Supercilii corrugator, 167 Superficial fascia, - ii. 72 Supei-ficialis volie, iii. 299 Superior, cava. - 324 Superior extremities, aponeurosis of the, i. 446 extremity, bloodvessels of the, iii. 291. 306 — bones of the, - i. 401 ligaments of the. i. 471 . iii. 291 lymphatics of the. iii. 319 muscles of the. i. 446 nerves of the, iii. 308 Super-maxillo labialis, minor. ii. 56 major et medius. 64 Supernumerary muscles, i. 175 Super-scapulo trochiterius magnus. 453 minimus. - 454 parvus. 453 Supinator radii brevis. 458 longus. . ib. Supra-orbitar artery. Iii. 271 spinatus. ^i. 453 Sutures, 260 advantages of, - 266 progress of ossification in the. 370 Sympathetic nerves, - iii. , 286. 326. 371 Synovia, general observations on. - i. 78 chemical analysis of. 70 source of the, 82 Synovial apparatus of the knee-joint, 550 - — diseases of the. . 17LGENERAL INDEX. 575 T Page Tseniae, - - in. 209 anatomical structure of, - ii. 203 species of the, - 2()5 Tarseal arteries, - iii. 3C4< Tarso-phalangeus, - i. 533 sub phalangeus pollicis, - 535 — minimi digiti, 534 Tarsus, bones of the, - - 501 and metatarsus muscles of the, 52S —• ligaments of the, - 552 Tears, analysis of the, - iii, 172 Teeth, - - ii. 9 formation of the first set of, - 17 - period at which the first set appears, 21 shedding of the first set, and appearance of the second set of, - 22 teeth and jaws, changes in adranced life of the, - 25 authors on the structure and diseases of the, - - 29 Tela choroidea, - - iii. 127 Temporal artery, external or superficial, 200 deep, - 267 vein, ' - - 273 muscle, - ii. 51 Temporo auricularis, - iii. I7t» maxillaris, inferior, - ii. 51 Temporum, ossa, - - i. 292GENERAL INDEX. 576 Pa^<? Tendons, of the muscles of the hand, &c. i. 477 ligaments for retaining the, ib. and tendinous aponeuroses, derange- ments of the, - - 176 Tensor, tympani, - iii. 182 vaginae femoris, - L 619 Tentorium cerebello superextensum, iii. 122 Teres major, - - i. 454 minor, - - ib. Terminthus, - - iii. 246 Testes, - - 43 bloodvessels of the, . 342. 347 derangements of the substance, and coats of the, - 80, 81 cerebri, - - 130 Testicle, seminiferous tubes of the, - 40 and epididymis, explanation of plate of the, - 50 Thalami nervorum opticorum, - 128 Thenard, on bile, - ii. 234 Thigh bone, - - i. 479 Third pair of nerves, or motores oculorum, iii. i02 Thomson’s, (Dr Thomas,*) analysis of alvine con- cretions, ii. 163 the cutis ve- ra, iii. 202 Thoracic aorta, - 321 veins corresponding with the, 324 duct, ' - - 329 viscera of the foetus, - 435 Thorax, of the, - h 326 — structure of the, - ih 381 description of the parietes, and contents of the, - 315.321GENERAL INDEX, 577 Page Thorax^ measurements of the, - ii. 317 —: depth and distance from the fore to the back part of the, - 317 bloodvessels of the, - iii. 321 bones of the, - i. 237 nerves of the, - iii. 321. 311 / lymphatic vessels of the, - 321 Thumb, bones of the, - i. 442 muscles of the, - - 463 Thymus gland, - - iii. 436 Thyroid gland, muscle of, - ii. 422 Thyro-arytenoidei muscles, - 417 hyoideus, - - 61 Thyroid cartilage of the larjmx, - 412 —^ - - 422 physiology of the, - 423 organic derangements of, iii. 435 Thyroidea arteria, superior, - 264 inferior, - - 293 Tibia. - - i. 496 and fibula, ligaments between the, 551 Tibial artery, - - iii. 363 veins, - •• 368 nerve, - - 375 Tibialis, anticus, - - i. 528 posticus, - . Tibio-calcaneus, - _ 530 sub-unguialis, . - 532 sub-tarseus, - . 528 super-tarseus, _ . ilj. Tinea capitis, - - j|j_ 044 VOL. ITI. o o578 general index. Pug« Toes, bones of the, - . i. 5J4, muscles of the, - 531 ligaments of the, ' ' - 554. Tomenta cerebri, - iii. Tongue, of the, - . ii. 37 artery of the, iii. 104 muscles of the, - ii. 65 nerves of the, - iii. 194 organ of taste, - ib. derangements of the muscles Of the, ii. 159 ^— malconformation, and diseases of the, 154 Tonsils, - - 56 derangements of the, - 160 Torcular Herophili, - iii. 123 Traclica, - - ii. 384 glands connected with the, 420, 421 derangements of the, ii. 427. iii. 470 of the, - ii. 427 ossification of the’cartilages ^f the, 431 ulceration of the inner merhbrane of the, 432 polypi in the, - 433 calcareous substances in the, 434 Trachelo-mastoideus muscle, - i. 389 occipitalis, - - 38B scapularis, - - 450 sub-occipitalis, major, - 390 minor, - 391 • Tragicus muscle, - - iii. 177 Tragus, ' - - 175 Transversus abdominis, - ii. 79 colli, - - i. 385GENERAL INDEX. -57® as lymphatic glands, - ii. 404 Page Transverso-spinalis-colli, - i' 380 dorsi, - Transversus aiiris, r i''* 1'^'^ Transversalis perinei, - ii- Trapezium, os, - • - i* 4-31 Trapezius, - - Trapezoides, os, - Triceps adductor femoris, - ■523 extensor cubiti, - 466 Trichiasis, . - - iih 233 Trigone of the bladder, - ’ 9 Trichuris liominis, • - ii- 212 Tricuspid valve, - - 336 Trifemoro rotularis, middle share of the, i. 525 outer , ib. inner , ib. Trochanter major, - 481 muscles inserted into the, 520 minor, - 481 — muscles inserted into the, 522 Trunk, subdivision of the, - 184 observations on the form of the, 236 muscles situated upon the back-part of the, 381 on the fore part of the, 382 causes of deformity of the, 192 form of the, differences of, in the male and female, - 558 bursae mucosae of the, - 393 ligaments of the, - 394 Tuber annulare, - 132 Tubercles of the lungs, described by some authors•GENERAL INDEX 530 Page Tubercula quadi’igemina, - iii. 130 Tuberculum Loweri, - ii. 335 Tube, Eustachtan, - iii. 179 Fallopian, - - 68 Tumours, difTerent kinds of, on the villous coat of the alimentary canal, ' - ii. 173 Tunica adnata, - - iii. 143 albuginea testis, ' - 45 arachnoidea, - 124 ■ choi'oides, - 144 hyaloidea, - - 156 —-— sclerotica, - 143 — vaginalis, - - 45 Turbinata inferiora, ossa, - i* 337 . > ■ sujieriora, ossa, - - 303 Tympani, chorda, - - ^i. 192 > laxator, - - 181 membrana, - 1^® Tympanum of the ear, *• 1^0 U V Vaccina, or cow-pox, - authors on, 257 ,r . - 68 Vagina, — orifices of the, " derangements of the, - , • contraction of the, " 69 Vaginaj sphincter, " " Vaginal artery, •GENERAL INDEX. 581 Page Valves of the absorbents, ‘ - ih 288 veins, - 34.5 heart and arteries. See Heart, 336, 337. 339 Valvula coli, - - 129 Variola, - - iii- 247 Varicella, or chicken-pox, - 248 Vasa brevia, - - 334 efferentia testis, ‘ - 47 . ■ ■ — of the absorbents, ii. 290 inferentia of the absorbents, - ib. lactea, - - 319 vasorum, 348 Vascular system, inflammation of the, 372 abscess of the, - ib, mortification of the, ib. ossification of the, - ib. Vastus externus, - i. 525 internus, - - ib. Vauquelin’s analysis of the hair, iii. 206 Veins, of the, - - ii. 344 coats of the, - 346 distribution of the, - iii. 261 corresponding with the external carotid ar- tery, 273 internal carotid and vertebral arteries, 474 authors upon the structure of the, ii. 363 derangement of the, 374 observations on the disti’ibution and anas- tomoses of the, - iii 377 ——— coats of, stronger than those of arteries, ii. 3285S2 GENERAL INDEX i. 419 Page Vieussen’s centrum ovale. iil. 12C Vena-saphaena major, 3G8 minor, - / ib. Vena cava, superior. 308 inferior. 360 Venae cavae liepaticae, 338 comites satellites. 307 Vena ipsius penis. i - 347 portarum. 337 Ventral hernia, ii. 201 Ventricles of the brain. iii. 127. 130, 131 heart, ii. 334. 338 Ventriculi tricornes of Haller, iii. 127 Vermiform appendix of the caicum, ii. 139 Vertebra dentata. i. 199 Vertebrae, true. 185 processes of the. 187 false, 211 canal of the. 213 foramen of the. ib. ligaments of the, 395 Vertebral arteries, iii. 273 canal of the. i. 188 vein. iii. 308 Vesicalis ima, arteria. 343 Vesicula alba. 425 Vesiculae seminales. • - 53 Vestible of the labyrinth, 184 Viscera chylopoetic, and assistant chylopoetic, of the. ii. 109. 219 —^ transposition of the. iii. 468 Vitreous humour. 156 Ulna,GENERAL INDEX. 583 Page Ulnar artery, - •• iii. 297 nerve, 313 artery, deviations from the usual course of the, - - 394 Ulnaris profunda, - 299 Umbilical cord, - - 420 artery, - 343. 420 hernia, - . ii. 200 Unciforme, os, - - i. 434 Unguis, ossa, - - 321 Vocal chords, - - ii. 415 Voice, - - 419 — differences of in sexes, and at different pe- riods of life, - iJ>. Vomer, - - i. 339 Urachus, - - iii. 425 Ureter, ' - - 4 Ureters, derangements of the, - 31 Urethra, - - 13 of the male, - ib. of the female, - - 71 derangements of the, - .34 stricture, explanation of plate of the, 35 I 'l ine, organs of, - - 1.17 analysis of, - 18 putrid analysis of, - 19 authors on, - - ’20 upon tlie changes of the, in diffe- rent diseases, 2S Urinary organs, derangements of the, 23. 29 calculi, - - 23 concretions, explanation of the plates of,GENERAL INDEX. 14 584 Page with observations on the chemical ingredients, by Mr John Davy, . iii. 498 Urinaiy concretions, authors on very large, 594 organs, authors on the, - 20 derangements of the, 36 240 342, 343 68 64 61. 65 417 Urticaria, or nettle-rash. Uterine arteries, or Fallopian tubes. Uterus, of the, appendages of the, gravid, position of the, state of the, at the ninth month of preg- nancy, ——— malconformation, and diseases of the, • scirrhus of the, ruptured, , - Uvula, Uvulse, azygos. 414 91 92 484 ii. 35 59 W Walsh, (Mr,) observations on the torpedo, iii. 113 Walter’s Plates of biliary calculi, - ii. 234 Wasse’s observations on the intervertebral carti- lages, - - i. 190 Weitbreicht on ligaments, - 186 Well’s, (Dr,) observations on colour of the blood, ii. 318 Willa.n’s, (Dr,) classification of cutaneous disea- ses, - - Wilson’s, (Mr) description of a muscle arising from the ossa pubis, which embraces the urethra,GENERAL INDEX. 585 { Page Winterbottom’s description of the head of the African, - i. 316 ■ description of a singular devia- tion from the usual formation of the heart, - iii. 461 Winslow’s foramen described, - ii. 241 Windpipe, - - 384 extraneous bodies lodged within the, 433 — diseases in parts connected with the, 435 Womb, of the, - - iii 34 description of the muscles of the^ - 415 state of the at the ninth month of preg- nancy, - ib. state of the ligaments of the, at the ninth month of pregnancy, - 414 state of the, in the earlier months of preg- nancy, . 423 — gravid, authors on the, - 490 X Xiphoides cartilage, . i. 351 Z Zygoma, Zygomaticus, major - jj minor, ib. Zygomato auricularis, _ iji labiale, major and minor, - ii. 55 — ■ maxillaris, - 52 THE END...V .^ \^Han V-» ‘ ■rf'' ■ * : -■ ■. -! ^r': evtl *3 .xjiawi /• -V :'i>' . ;’)3 -fnoJ VtfaTTokffitti^ly^ !K>iju{irv-3^ •--.it.—iv l6|f':Ki ^ rKi *);U’lo *■ . , I V'J', ■; »■ i ' -', ‘ «ij jiiiprih nonpar •> V j^xiW . ,|i!K ' • ’ ■• .’ i'y^t: t^o> f»*rf)irf wKi&fttihc® ^jL-^..^...,- f'• iUi|r i|: »tii Miifi — *^v:u V ,/J- -« • .yr;<j ^ V j!ifc»A TjJJ V» f*«l« ^ •H ■ Tf, ‘ ,vafft • ' • «lic»ia i» .^4| ^3 *il •« - v_ . .A. 1^91^*1«£^ftui>i toiii. u odl ni torjid^i ^*:d$ no <n<*ltrf* ebivatj A* nr Ci • cc> - 44,. I.-' »<•■■ *k ■■ v#-' . ^ '1? /uv. 'V--' " *• V,.'.> •■/ i/7 ■•>-’r •. ^ X- . ' l«W(i!jl,<<’>'-,' ». Ij . ,33alii7n3 t)t)forf<|!X • J' C?, .it :w^ ♦I LV •js: ••i k ' .• |CffWgY.v^' fc- W Huijjfatiiojjv ” ,'iouMi -*-r — ' -f,*? .'■ '•‘ii uvt .ilf • * ij' ' ■ ^itwbj-iilrjd ohs'<x*;j''?^ ;.-> ^ V ' , ‘ .. s. ; v, r V •' • ^ '4 ' ’f'r.,«^“Tr.’3i ^ '^-' -A ? •'*>’ ' *<» "f .^ -•■ ' . '■f '•- >'f J liri'ja ; i ] i