a:THE NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY. INSTITUTED MDCCCLVIII. VOLUME XXIII.Dijgitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b24751248_0023YEAE-BOOK MEDICINE, SURGERY, AND THEIR ALLIED SCIENCES, FOll 18 6 3. /,,, 1 EDITED BY ME. JAMBS HINTON, DE. HANDFIELD JONES, ME. WINDSOE, DE. MEABUEN BEIGHT, AND DE. HILTON EAGGE, FOB THE NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY. LONDON. MDCCCLXIV.ROYAL CC! - ~ • '/aiOrANS CLASS ACCM ' SOURCE DATE PBINTED BY J. E. ADLABB, BABTDOLOMEW CLOSK.CONTENTS. L—EEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. By James Hinton, M.R.C.S. PAGE I. Cells, Elementary Organisms, and Corpuscles . . .1 II. Formation of Organized Bodies .... 5 III. Blood ....... 8 IV. Digestion ...... 12 V. Lymphatic System . . . . . .15 Yl. Bile, and Functions of the Liver .... 17 VII. Circulation and Respiration . . . . .18 VIII. Muscular System ..... 24 IX. Metamorphosis of Matter . . . . .26 X. Nervous System . . . . . .30 II.—EEPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE AND PATHOLOGY. By C. Handiteld Jones, M.B. Cantab., P.R.S. General Pathology , . . . , .33 General System ...... 37 Nervous System . . . , . . .69 Psychiatrik . . . . . . .110 Muscular System ....... 118 Circulatory System . . " . . . . 121 Respiratory System • . . ^ . . 144 Digestive System . . ^ . . . 169 Secretory System ....... 1764 Cutaneous System I76e III.—REPORT ON SURGERY. By Thomas Windsoe. Materia Cliimrgica and the Medical Treatment of Surgical Cases Plastic Surgery • • . . . Traumatic Delirium .... Wounds ...... Frostbite . 179 184 . 186 187 . 188VI CONTENTS. PAGE Gunshot Wounds ...... 188 Septiccemia . . . . . _ . ]90 Gonorrhcca and Syphilis ..... 194 Aneurism . . . . . . . 209 Embolism ....... 210 Transfusion . . . . . . .212 Bones ....... 214 i'riictures ....... 223 Dislocations ....... 225 Excision ....... 233 Amputation ....... 231 SPECIAL SURGERY. Head . . . . . . . .239 Eye ....... 240 Exoi)hthalmic Goitre ...... 246 Muscles of the Eye ...... 248 Glaucoma ....... 255 Retina ....... 262 Ear . . . . . . . .267 Lip ....... 272 Tracheotomy ....... 276 Neck ....... 279 Chest . . . . . . . .281 Abdomen ....... 285 Hernia . . . . . . . .286 Intestinal Obstruction ...... 293 Rectum. . . . . . . .297 Genito-Urinary Organs ...... 299 Bladder . . . . • . . .306 Urethra ....... 313 Stone in the Bladder . . . . . .313 Hand and Foot .... . . 318 Orthopsedic Surgery . . ' . . . . 325 IV.—REPOET ON MIDWIFERY AND THE DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN. By John MEABtntN Bright, M.D. I. LITERATURE. Midwifery . . . . . . .337 Diseases of Women ...... 337 Diseases of Children ...... 338 Statistics, &c. ...... . 339 General Anatomy and Physiology . . . . 3 tt On Temperature, &c., during the Puerperal Statu . . . 347vii CONTENTS. PAGE Simultaneous Uterine and Extra-Uterine Pregnancy, proceeding to the full Term of Gestation ...... 353 Unusual Locality of Pregnancy ..... 356 Mechanism of Delivery ...... 357 Eetroversion of the Gravid Uterus ..... 358 Abortion ....... 359 Diseases of the Mother impeding Delivery.—On the Hydatidiform Ovum . 361 Abnormal Conditions of the Pelvis and Uterus . . . 363 Procidentia of the Gravid Uterus ..... 363 Plural Births . . . . . . .363 Abnormal Presentations ..... 36'! Diseases, &c., of the Child impeding Delivery.—Dropsy of the Ovum . : 367 Hemorrhage before, during, or after Delivery . . . 370 Placenta PrEevia . . . . . . .370 Hoemorrhage—Transfusion ..... 371 Eupture of the Uterus ...... 374 Laceration of the Perinaeum ..... 375 Operations in Midioifery. On the Induction of Premature Labour .... 375 Forceps ....... 377 Turning ........ 378 Cffisarean Section ...... 382 Cephalotripsy ....... 383 II. DISEASES or WOMEN. Physiology ....... 384 Non-puerperal Pelvic Inflammation ..... 385 Affections of the Os and Cervix Uteri .... 386 Versions of the Uterus.—Inversion ..... 387 Retroflexion of the Uterus ..... 388 Diseases of the Uterus.—Tuberculosis . . . . 388 Polypus of the Uterus . . . . . . 339 Diseases of the Ovaries.—Ovariotomy ..... 391 Extirpation Of the Uterus and both Ovaries ... 393 Dysmenorrhoea 393 Pregnancy ....... 394 Diseases of the Vagina 394 Diseases of the Puerperal State. Puerperal Convulsions 395 Puerperal Diseases . , . . _ _ ggg v.—REPOET ON TOXICOLOGY AND MxlTERIA MEDICA. By C. HiiTON Fagge, M.D. 401 Mechanical Irritants . . .CONTKNTS, „ , TAGE Sulphuric Acid ...... 402 Nitric Acid . . . , , . ' . ' Pliosphonis . . . . _ .404. Alljulies and Alkaline Earths ..... 407 Arsenic ........ 409 Antimony ...... 411 I"""" • • • • • . . .412 Manganese ....... 413 Bismuth 414 Copper ....... 414 Mercury . . . . . . .415 Thallium ....... 415 Mineral Waters ....... 4I6 Organic Substances ...... 416 Organic Chemical Products ...... 432 Animal Poisons and Remedies ..... 436 Venomous Reptiles ...... 437 Leeches ....... 437 New Remedies ....... 440 General Therapeutics ...... 441 General Pharmaceutics ...... 442 VI.—EEPOET ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. By C. Hilton PAoaE, M.D. Literature ....... 443 Blood-stains . . . , . . . 443 Signs of Death ...... 447 Suicide . . . . . . . , 447 Burns ....... 448 Hanging ....... 449 Drowning ....... 449 Sterility ....... 452 Rape ....... 452 Csesarean Section ....... 452 Infanticide ....... 4-53 VII.—REPOET ON PUBLIC HEALTH. By C. Hilton Fagge, M.D. Causes of Disease ....... 456 Occupations 457 Glazed "Vessels . . . . . . .461 Colours ....... 462 Food . . . . . . • -462 Vaccination 466REPOIIT ON PHYSIOLOGY. BY JAMBS HINTON, M.E.C.S., ATI UAL SUEGEON TO GUY'S U 0 S 1'I T A L. GENERAL PHYSIOLOGY. I. CELLS, ELEITEKTAUY GIIGAIS'ISIIS, AXD CORPtTSCLES. Eeichert, C.— Oii the jVew Beforms in the Boctrine of the Cell. Reichert unci Du Bois Reymond's Archiv, Nos. i and 2, 1863. BiiucKE, E.—Oji the so-called Molecular Motion in' Animal Cells, cqye- cially in the Saliva-corpuscles. Moleschott's Unterauchunffen, vol. IX, p. 7. l.iOJ.j.T^Ty!, A..—Experiments and Observations on the Hlood. Moles- chott's Untersuchungen, vol. ix, p. 23. Egberts, 'W.— On feculiar Appearances exhihited ly Blood-corpuscles under the influence of Solutions of Magenta and Tannin. Pro- ceedings of the Eoyal Society, vol. xii, p. 481. A ox EECKLiNGiiAYSE^f, ^.-Qn Bus- and Connective-tissue-corpuscles. Virchow 8 Archiv, vol. xxviii, p. 1 ^7. Waldenbueg, Jj.-Diseases of the Structure of Blunts, produced h,/ irritation ; and comparison of them tclth Affections of the Animal 1 issues. A contribution to Cellular Batholomi. Vircliow's Archiv vol. xxvu, pp. 145 and 322. BL-CK noLZ, li.-Some Experiments on the Artificial Broduction of Bone. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxvi, p. 78. on^<5;o'^^fn;?'fT*^r^^'"St^^ of Sehultze and Briicke on the natnre of the cell (see 'Year-book,' 1862, p. 2). He insists especially npon the presence of the cell-membrane a an ossent a Adtl iTonnnV various facts M-hicli he considers inconsistent AMtli the 0 posite view. He denies that the Amceba is a mere mass of aidlnt tr'"° it possesses a distinct membranous en?W ce tioS H. ^'T"" °f P^eudopodia is an ocular L- Slnn.^.lp, n? It ""'-^u*''^ '■"'''"""'^ produced by treating the blood- corpuscles of the frog with very dilute nitric acid (2 or 3 per cent ) as eudence of the presence of a cell-membrane, and as proof a so Ki^s StelTtl?"*? { ^"i?- Sranula; p.-ecip/tate .vlSh brm B.nks freely through the cell, and collects in heaps on the inner surfaceHEPOllT OX PHYSIOLOGY. ot its ouvelope, the external contour of Avhieli is unaflected by tlieni. Jures])ect to the structure of the Btriutcd muscular fibre, he thinks there is no sufBcieut evidence to pro\e that it consists of different substances, arranged alternately. A spiral arrangement, or even the effect of elasticity, supposing an habitual tension, might account for the appearances. Brucke, ou the other hand, returns to his argument (see ' Year- book,' 1862), that the phenomena observed in the saliva-corpuscles are inconsistent Avith tlie ordinary cell doctrine, and that even if the motions seen within the corpuscles be merely of the same kind as the ordinary molecular movements of inorganic particles, they yet take place in such a Avay as to prove the existence -within the corpuscles of segments or partitions. But, in fact, these movements appear to be determined by the life of the corpuscle, and cease with it; Avhile the motions produced in different cells, on adding salt, urea, or acids, exhibit not only distinctions between them, but in some cases forms which a mere membrane surrounding a fluid could not assume ; as, for example, two, three, or more portions, separated by constrictions, and resembling a cell about to multiply by budding or segmentation. On subjecting the salivary corpuscles to a magneto-electric stream, Briicke observed -what he considered to be a rupture of the cell at a definite point, result- ing from its own contraction, as occurs in some molluscs. EoUet also, from observations on the mode of aggregation of the blood-corpuscles, and from various experiments on the efl'ect produced upon the blood by freezing, by the electric discharge, and by the with- drawal of its gases, comes to the following conclusions':—(i) That the idea of the cell, in Schwann and Schleiden's sense, is not applicable to the blood-corpuscles, (a) These bodies consist, as regards their chief mass, of a weak, elastic, extensile substance. (3) We can distinguish in them at least two elements :—the crystallizable substance, hiemato- giobulin, and a peculiar stroma. (4) Both are held together in a way not Icnown to ns. (5) By external influences, they can be separated from each other. (6) To these separating influences belong, besides the known chemical agents, also a high degree of cold (freezing), the electric discharge, and the pumping out of its gases from the blood. (7) After the division, either both portions dissolve in the unaltered serum, or a portion of the stroma remains undissolved. (8) lIa;niato- globulin crystallizes, so far as is yet known, in two systems—the rhombic, and the hexagonal. (9) The crystals are pleochromatic. (10) The formation of crystals is increased by the dilution of the blood with water ; but we may also observe an abundant formation of ci'ystals in unaltered serum, when the composition of the corpuscles is modified by very various influences, as freezing, electrizing, <fcc. On the other hand, the observations of Dr. Eoberts, on the eflects of a solution of magenta or of tannin on the blood-corpuscles, have led him to very difterent results. He considers that the appearances pre- sented are best explicable on the supposition that each corpuscle is3 CEIXSj ELEMENTAUY OKGANlSJISj AND COKPUSCLES. surroimded, not only by one, but by two membranes ; tlmt within the outer covering there exists an interior vesicle, wbicb encloses the coloured contents, and in tbe ovipara the nucleus: so that the blood- corpuscle is anatomically analogous to a vegetable cell, and the inner vesicle corresponds to the primordial utricle. The appearances on which this view is founded are, briefly stated, the following:—A solution of magenta added to a drop of blood brings out at some point of its surface a spot or particle, evidently organically connected with that surface, and assuming from the magenta a deeper colour than the general contents of the corpuscle. This spot presents various aspects, and in some cases forms a delicate line, surrounding the greater part of the circumference of the disc. On adding tannin, in proportions varying for different bloods, there took place suddenly, after a gradual swelling of the corpuscle, a projection, in one or more spots, from its surface. This projection was of granular appearance, resembling very closely, but not exactly, the general cell-contents, and was frequently siuTOunded externally by a distinct hood. In some cases the outline of the corpuscle could be distinctly traced through the projecting mass. After a few days the cells thus altered burst, and became disintegrated. They appeared to have been rendered solid by the tannin. Dr. Eoberts suggests, that the inner membrane of the corpuscles in these cases may have been caused to burst, allowing a partial exudation of its contents beneath the outer capsule, and then immediately reuniting itself. The hooded appearance might be due to the imbibition of fluid between this microscopic drop and the outer envelope. The exact identity of the appearances in the blood-discs of the ovipara and of the mammalia, discountenances Wharton Jones's view that the latter answer to the nuclei of the former, and lends support to the view that these cor- puscles are homologous as wholes. V. Recklinghausen reports some new observations on the contractility of cells. He irritated the cornea of the frog with sulphate of copper, and placed under the microscope some of the aqueous humour which had become opaque in consequence of the irritation. He foimd it to contain corpuscles, in appearance identical with pus-corpuscles ; these continually changed their form, putting out and di-awing back processes of various lengths and thicknesses, sometimes branching, sometimes reuniting, so as to form a network. The changes, in short, resembled very closely those of the pseudopodia of the Eadiolaria. Changes of density in the liquid, whether by evaporation or by addition of various solutions,_ soon brought them to a standstill. Similar motions were observed in the pus-corpuscles taken from man and mammalia, and, in the former, similar internal molecular motions to those which BrLicke has described in the saliva. Passing from effusions to the connective tissue itself, v. Recklinghausen found that, by making a fine section of the cornea of the frog, and placing it with some of the aqueous humour, uncovered, but in a cell adapted to prevent evaporation, beneath the microscope, corpuscles could be seen in it, which also changed their form similarly to, but somewhat more restrictedly than, the pus-corpuscles. Further, through their changes of form these■1. llEl'OUl' OX I'UYSIOLOUy. rorpusclc3 tilso cliniiged ilicir place, tlio body of llie cell beiug drawn into the projected process, and another projection then being put ibrtli. Ill the course of half an hour a corpuscle would tlius soinetiines traverse the whole licld of the microscope. Besides these moving cells, there aro others of larger size, and having numerous processes—the ordinarily described corpuscles of the cornea; these are immovable. The moving corpuscles pass over them, but always appear distinct irom them ; the former seem to pass, as it were, along the processes of tiie latter, and to be resisted in their progress by tlic liomogeneous sub- stance that lies between them. V. llecklinghausen holds that the locomotion of the corpuscles proves tlie existence of canals with ex- panded interspaces in the substance of the various tissues he examined. He found the peritoneum and pleura in rabbits among the most suitable. In inflammation the moving corpuscles increase in number in the early stage; the immovable ones appear, perhaps, to diminish. Y. Reckling- hausen, however, could not obtain clear evidence that the former were derived from the latter, with or without tlieir subdivision, although he met with various forms that seemed to be intermediate between the two. By excising portions of the cornea in the frog, and placing them ■within the lymph-sac, for from four to eight days, the number of moving corpuscles in them was increased ; and by first using means to cause tlie death of the portion of cornea used, and placing finely powdered cinnabar in the vessel, V. Eecklinghausen convinced himself tliat the fresh corpuscles entered it from without. Like tlie Ama-ba, they took up the coloured fragments into their substance. This fact he thinks of importance, in respect to the process of organization in effused lymph- The possibility is not to be lost sight of that the cells may move into it from the adjacent textures. To test how large the canals through which the cells pass must be, V. Eecklinghausen introduced extremely thin tubes of ivory, filled with u solution of sugar, and closed with collodion, into the lymph-sacs, but neither within them nor within any vegetable substance did any cells make their appearance. The same was the case M'ith moderately firmly coagulated albumen. ]n tliis property of contractility another poiut of resemblance between })us-corpuscles and the colourless corpuscles of the blood is established. The question is raised also, whether many of the cells found on the internal surfaces of the body are not truly such inoving corpuscles which have made their way thither from within; whether, for example, the saliva-corpuscles may not be such. Finally, v. liecklinghauseu is of opinion that the star-formed figures which are obtained by His from connective tissue by the use, first of nitrate of silver, and then by maceration in acids, are not, as he supposes, the corpuscles of the tissue isolated, but that they represent the coagulated albuminous contents of a system of lacuna) with radiating canals. in the same number, p. 237, Yircliow adds a report of similar changes of form which he had some time ago observed in the cells of cartilage and of enchondromatous tumours; from round cells arise numerous branching and interlacing processes, and conversely branching cells gather themselves up into spherical ones.5 FOIIMATION OF ORGANIZED BODIES. With a view to throw more light upon the doctrine of the essential part played by the cells, independently of blood-vessel or nerve, in animal nutrition, Waldenburg submitted to accurate observation the stems, leaves, seeds, &c., of plants which he had previously injured in various ways. He foimd, as the general result, that the cells imme- diately around the injured part degenerated, and either withered or decayed, the green chlorophyll changing, by a passive decomposition, into the yellow xanthophyll. The cells adjoining these underAvent a process of enlargement and multiplication by subdivision, their walla becoming greatly thickened. If seeds were injured, similar results ensued when they were caused to germinate. The production of resin, gum, or wax, is not a secretion, but a process analogous to fatty degeneration. The cellular phenomena Avhich follow irritation are es- sentially alike in plants and animals, and lead to similar results. Changes in vessels and nerves are not essential precedents and exciters of inflammation, which consists in an alteration primarily of the meta- morphosis of matter within the cells. The cells, however, are not sus- ceptible of a direct external irritation, but possess a seusibility only to internal disturbances in the exchange of the nutritive fluids. It is not the act of injuring, but the condition of being injured, that perverts their action. AValdenburg thinks that inflammation should not be con- sidered as existing in plants, but that the word should have a narrowed meaning, and imply an excited activity of the tissue, plus blood- congestion. Buckholz adds some farther particulars respecting the formation of bone from transplanted periosteum. His observations differ from those of Oilier in some respects, especially as to the existence of the sub- periosteal blastema, which Buckholz denies. The bone is formed in the thickened substance of the periosteum itself, tlirough the medium of the cells Avhich it contains in a contracted and shrivelled form. These cells enlarge and multiply, and behave in a way precisely similar to those of cartilage, which he believes iu some cases precedes, in the strictest sense, the deposit of the calcareous matter, though the presence of chondrin has not been demonstrated. Within two or three days the transplanted periosteum is injected and swollen, and bauds of ad- hesion form between it and the surrounding tissue. It is speedily regenerated in the parts from which it has been removed: in fourteen days Buckholz has seen a perfect membrane re-formed, fit for renewed transplanting. II. rOEMATION OF OEGAI^IZED BODIES, Pasteuh, L.—A new Example of Fermentation, determined hij InfuRory Animalcules alle to live without Free Oxi/r/en, and apart from all contact toith Atmospihene Air. Comptes lieudus, March p'th, 1863, p. 416. Pasteur, L.—Examination of the Bole ascribed to Atmospheric Oxygen in the Destruction of Animal and Vejetalle Matter after Death. Comptes llcndus, April 20th, 1863, P- 734*6 IlEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. Pasteuii, Jj.—BcsearcJies on Putrefaction. Coini)tes Eendus, June 29tli, 1863, P- 1189. PorciiET, 1\ A., Jolt, N., and Musset, Q.—Experhnents on Jldcro- genie {Spontaneous Generation), conducted in the Interior of the Glaciers of Maladetta, in the Spanish Fijrenees. Comptes Eendus, Sept. 2ist, 1863. Haulin, M.—Chemical Studies on the Ver/ctaUon of3foulds,pariicnlarli/ ofAscophora nigrans. Comptes Eciidus, July 27tli, 186.3, P- 228. M. Pasteur considers that his previous experiments have entirely dis- proved the hypothesis that fermentation can be effected by the influence of decomposing albuminous substances. The sole agents in the process are animalcules, or their germs, of which fact he now adduces another instance. The tartrate of lime, mixed with a minute quantity of phos- phate of ammonia and of alkaline and earthy phosphates, best derived from the ashes of the animalcules it is desired to reproduce, is placed under water which has been entirely freed from air, and cut off from all access to the atmosphere. Under these circumstances it undergoes no change. If, however, there be added to it the very smallest number of the infusoria produced by the spontaneous fermentation of the tartrate of lime, they gradually multiply, without any access of air, until there remains no more of the salt, ljut only a mass of dead vibrios. Thus, whatever may be the cause of the fermentation of the tartrate of lime, it is determined by the presence of an animalcule capable of living without free oxygen, and apart from the atmos])here. It is true that the liquid is exposed to the air for a brief period during the introduc- tion of the infusoria; but the study of this subject has shown that the precautions previously taken to cut off the supply of air are altogether iinnecessary, and has also led M. Pasteur to new views of the most re- markable kind on infusorial life. The animalcules which produce fer- mentation are not only capable of living without free oxygen, but they are killed by the access of air: how, then, can fermentation arise in sub- stances freely exposed to the atmosphere ? The answer is very simple. There are first developed under these conditions a multitude of monads, bacteria, &c., which live by means of air, and these in the space of a few hours consume all the oxygen contained in the mass, converting it into a little larger quantity of CO2; and then only appear the other in- fusoria, which cause fermentation properly so-called, and which live without free oxygen. These infusoria are nourished by the fermenting body, and the supposed fermentation by contact does not exist. Albuminous bodies are of use in fermentation only by providing the necessary nitrogen, and may be substituted by salts of ammonia. There appear, then, to be two modes of life among infusoria—one carried on by the aid of the oxygen of the air, the other, not heretofore recognised, apart from oxygen, and effected by means of fermentation. Here, M. Pasteur thinks, is certainly the secret of all fermentations properly so-called, and probably of many of the actions, normal or abnormal, of the living organism. Pasteur has made also further experiments, by enclosing a solution of veast mixed with sugar and Avnter, urine, blood, milk, moist snwdu.st,rOElIATION OF OUGiiNIZBD BODIES. 7 &c., in retorts, with air which had been freed from germs by a higli temperature. After the lapse of nearly three years no putrefaction was found in any case, and only in that of the milk was the amount of free oxygen reduced to less than 11 per cent. ; in most cases there was a loss^of not more than a or 3 per cent. To eliminate the possible effect of boiling, blood drawn direct from the vessels of a healthy dog had been kept in the presence of air freed from germs for six weeks, and underwent no putrefaction. Only 2 or 3 per cent, of the O was con- verted into C0.> Under these circumstances, however, blood-crystals form with remarkable facility. After a few weeks, the more quickly the higher the temperature, the blood-globules entirely disappear alike from serum and clot, and innumerable needle-shaped crystals are seen in both. In another paper Pasteur continues the subject of the peculiar life of the vibrios which produce fermentation. He first observes that the word putrefaction, indicating spontaneous changes in organic matters attended with a foetid smell, is used in a sense at once too narrow and too wide. Eightly, it should include processes unattended by foetor, such as the butyric fermentation of lactate of lime, the foetor depending altogether on the presence of sulphur ; and it should not include gangrene, which is essentially distinct. In all cases of putrefaction or fermentation the agents are vibrios, which perish by contact with oxygen. "When a liquid putrefies in the presence of air, there take place two distinct processes—first, monads and bacteria form, and change the O it con- tains into CO2; then, if their germs are present, there appear within the mass vibrios, which institute the process of fermentation. The monads, &c., still form a layer on the surface, guarding the vibrios from the air, and multiplying indefinitelJ^ By the vibrios the nitrogenized matters are decomposed into simpler, but still complex, compounds, which, through the agency of the monads and bacteria, are then "burnt," and resolved into inorganic binary compounds, HO, NH.,, CO.^. If no germs of vibrios are present, no further change takes place after the monads have consumed the 0 ; the liquid remains indefinitely without either putrefying or fermenting. The case is rare, but Pasteur has met with several instances. Thus fermentation, though it might seem to be impossible in the presence of air, is, in fact, only then the most complete. "When it takes place in the absence of air, the intermediate substances resulting from it remain without further alteration. The fermentation of sugar affords an example, the alcohol in presence of air being acetified and biu-nt; so also with the butyric fermentation of the lactate of lime. A very thin layer of organic liquid exposed to tlie air neither ferments nor putrefies, inasmuch as vibrios cannot form in it; it presents the phenomena of combustion only. Pouchet adduces experiments against the assertion of Pasteur, that on mountains air can be collected, without modification of its chemical or physical properties, which will not produce any alteration even in a very putrescible liquid. He obtained air, with all the precautions men- tinned hj Pasteur, at a height of 3000 metres, (r-86 mile, looom. higher8 HEPOHT ON PHYSIOLOGY. tliaii tlie spot at wliicli Pasteur made liis experiments at Montuuvert). riiials which contained an infusion of iiay, boiled for nn liour and her- metically sealed during the act of boiling, were opened by a file heated to redness, son)o at lieucluse, and others withiu a deep and narrow crevasse in the glaciers of Maladetta. They were then immediately reclosed over a lamp, and examined after three or four days separately by himself at Pouchou, and by MM. Joly and Musset at Toulouse. Tlie results agreed perfectly. The phials contained dead bacteria and monads in prodigious quantity; a few living si)ecimen8 of Bacterium (irticulalum, some ama>bas, vibrios, tufts of mycelium, &c. Pouchet found also that i -Jo cubic decimetres [jSS cubic inches] of air collected at the same time, tlie atmcsphere being calm, did not contain a single egg, a single spore, or a single particle of organic debi'is. Eaulin put to the test the growth of Aseophora nigrans in media consisting entirely of mineral matter. He found that its growth might be as rapid in tliese as in organic solutions, and that it proceeds regularly until some essential element fails. The most useful mineral substances are, in the order of importance, phosphorus, potassium, mag- nesium, sulphur, manganese; these were employed in the form of phosphate of ammonia, carbonates of potash and magnesia, sulphate of ammonia, carbonate of manganese. The absence of phosphorus from a mixture of the whole would reduce the resulting growth from twenty grammes to half a gramme; of manganese, from twenty to five. The quantity of these elements which sufficed formed but a fraction of the total weight of the plant which might be produced—less than one fiftieth. The abundant development of the mucedo demanded the union of a sufficient number of simple bodies, tliese being required in very different weights. He could not find that any free nitrogen was absorbed by the plant in its growth. III. BLOOD. SciTMiDT, A.—J^urtlier Ohseyvations on Filrin and the Causes of its Coagulation. Eeichert und Du Bois Eeymond's Archiv, 18^2, pp. 420—469, and 533—564. LiSTEH, J.— On the Coagulation of the JBlood. Croonian Lecture, 1863. Proc. of Eoyal Society, vol. xii. p, 581. TniPT, L.— On the A)nmonia-contcnts of the JBloocI, the Urine, and the Expired Air. Henle and Pfeufer's Zeitschrift, vol. xvii, p. 167. SiiEE, A. H.—On the Artificial Production of Mhrin from Allumen. Proceedings of lloyal Society, vol. xii, pp. 399 and 505. Panum, p. L.—Experimental Researches on the Transfusion, Transplan- tation, or Substitution of Blood, in its Theoretical and Practical Belations. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxvii, pp. 240—296 and 433—460. Schmidt carries further his studies on coagulation (see '1 oar- book,' 1862, p. 20). He especially seeks to establish—(i) the relations9 BLOOD. M liich exist between tlic fibrino-plastic substance given off by the free cells and tissues, and tlie fibrino-gcnic substance contained in the eoagulable fluids; and (2) the nature of the process by which the fibrm is produced. The mode of obtaining the fibrino-plastic sub- stance (globulin, or blood-casein) has been previously mentioned ; the fibrino-geuic substance Schmidt obtained in a similar way, by pre- cipitating coagulable fluids with CO,, or weak acetic acid, and dissolving the precipitate again in weak alkali. The properties of the two substances he finds, so far as he has carried his inquiries, to be the same; they difl'er only in the more feeble reactions of the fibrino- genic than of" the fibrino-plastic substance. Hence they are difficult to separate. The fibrino-genic substance shows a greater tendency to aggregate into masses. Both substances lose their specific power of forming fibrin by heat, without undergoing any other change. A mixture of an artificial solution of each of them seldom coagulates, but an artificial solution of either will coagulate with a natural solution of the other. The fibrino-plastic substance is very widely distributed through the body, being yielded by almost all the tissues; its origin is always from cells. With regard to the chemistry of the act of coagulation, Schmidt holds that it is the result of a true union of the fibrino-plastic and fibrino-genic substances with each other, forming an insoluble third substance, which is the ordinary fibrin. In this process alkali would be set free, and Schmidt has found the serum remaining after coagula- tion always richer in alkali than the fluid was before it took place. This alkali retains in solution a certain portion of the fibrino-plastic substance (the more soluble of the two), and thus a fluid in which coagulation has taken place will coagulate again on the addi- tion of a liquid containing the fibrino-genic substance. These two factors may unite in any proportion, the Mhole of the fibrino-genic substance being precipitated in everj"^ case of coagulation ; the propor- tions in which they are united determine the rapidity of the process and the firmness of the clot. Salts hinder coagulation by virtue of their attraction for one or both of these factors in the process. With regard to the origin of the fibrino-genic substance, Schmidt inclines to the opinion that it is fibrino-plastic substance which has undergone alteration, so that ultimately all the coagulable matter is derived from cells ; and thus in cases in which the blood is thinner (as in inflammation and in pregnancy), the increase of fibrin might be explained on the principle simply of an increased exosmose. On the question Avhy the blood does not coagulate within the vessels, Schmidt ascribes to the living tissues (difiering on this point from Lister) a power of resisting the union between the two factors of fibrine. Either there may be, after the withdrawal of the blood from the body, a continued exudation of fibrino-plastic substance from the cells, without an addition of alkali to maintain fluidity; or there may be during life an immediate change undergone by the fibrino-plastic substance on its emergence from the vessels, probably into the fibrino- genic substance, which change ceases when the influence of the tissues is withdrawn.10 hkvout on viiysiolooy. _ Lister adduces a long series of experiments whicli place tlie immediate occasion of the coagulation of the blood in a new light especially interesting in its relation to pathology. His conclusions are, that coagulation is in no degree connected with the evolution of ammonia, any more than with the influence of oxygen or rest. The real cause of the coagulation of tlio Llood, when shed from the bodr, is the influence exerted upou it by ordinary matter, the contact of which, for a very brief period, effects a change in the blood, inducing a mutual reaction between its solid and its fluid constituents, in which the corpuscles impart to the liquor sanguinis a disposition to coagulatOi- This reaction, he holds—agreeing in this with Schmidt—to be probably simply chemical in its nature ; yet its product, the fibrin, when mixed with blood-corpuscles in the form of an undisturbed coagulum, resem- bles healthy living tissues, in being incapable of that catalytic action upon the blood which is effected by all ordinary solids, and also by the tissues themselves when deprived of their vital properties. Tlie bearing of this fact upon inflammation is immediate. If we inquire what is the great peculiarity of inflamed parts in relation to the blood, as examined by the naked eye, we see that it consists in a tendency to induce coagulation in their vicinity, implying that the affected tissues have lost, for the time being, their vital properties, and comport them- selves like ordinary solids. Thus, when an artery or vein is inflamed, coagulation occurs upon its interior, in spite of the current of blood, precisely as would take place if it had been artificially deprived of its vital properties. On one occasion Lister simulated the characteristic adherent clot of phlebitis by treating the jugular vein of a living sheep with caustic ammonia, and then allowing the circulation to go on through the vessel for a while, when, on slitting it up, its lining membrane was found studded with grains of pink fibrin, which could be detached only by scraping firmly with the edge of a knife. Again, comparing an inflammatory exudation into the pericardium or into the interstices of the cellular tissue with dropsical effusions into the same situations, we are struck with the fact that, while the liquor sanguinis effused in dropsy remains fluid, the inflammatory product coagulates. Now, we know that in intense inflammation, the capillaries are choked, more or less, with accumulated blood-corpuscles, which must cause great increase in the pressure of the blood upon their walls; and from what we know of the eflfect of venous obstruction in causing dropsical eftusions of liquor sanguinis through increased pressure, we are sure that Ave have in the inflammatory state the physical conditions for a similar transuda- tion of fluid through the walls of the capillaries. And the n.atural interpretation of the diflerence in the two cases, as regards coagulation, seems to be that, whereas in dropsy the fluid is forced through the pores of healthy vessels, in inflammation the capillary parietes have lost their healthy condition, and act like ordinary matter; so that the liquor sanguinis, having been subjected immediatelj^ before eflusion to the combined influence of the injured tissue and the blood-cor- puscles, has acquired a disposition to coagulate, just like the bufly coat of horse's blood shed into a glass, or like the frog's liquor sanguinis filtered by Miller from its corjniscles, the injured vessels acting upon11 BLOOD. the blood like tlie filter. The results of his recent investigations thus entirely confirm the views of inflammation to which he was led by his previous studies (see the ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1858). Lister does not find that the healthy vessels or other tissues exert a positively restraining power over a spontaneous tendency to coagula- tion naturally existing in the blood, but holds that they are simply negative in this respect, and that unliving matter exerts a disturbing —as it were, a catalytic—influence, which induces coagulation. The test used by Thiry, to determine the ammonia in the fluids, was that recommended by Nessler—a solution of iodide of merciu-y in iodide of potassium, rendered strongly alkaline by potash. He employed also hfematoxylin paper to confirm his results. The blood Avas conveyed, without access to the air, beneath an exhausted receiver, and afterwards atmospheric air, previously passed over SO.,, was driven through it. No ammonia was given off" from the blood at the temperature of the body; it was given oif, however, when the blood was heated to 5o° C. (122° Fahr.), and more abundantl}'- at 70° (158° Fahr.) There is no difference between arterial and venous blood, nor does that of the portal vein contain any excess. Coagulation took place, without any escape of ammonia, in blood from which ammonia was afterwards obtained by heat. The form in which ammonia exists in the blood is probably that of the lactate, a solution of this salt alone among the salts of ammonia giving similar results. In the urine ammonia exists in a similar form. In mammalia the expired air is richer in ammonia than the iusj)ired; in frogs this is not the case. Observing that the composition of fibrin diff'ered from that of albumen by the substitution of i"_5 part of oxygen per 100 for a similar amount of carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen, sulphur, and phospho- rus conjoined, Smee passed a current of 0 through various albuminous fluids, to ascertain whether fibrin could be thus produced from them. His conclusions are—(i) fibrin is produced by the direct action of oxygen on albumen; (2) the alkalies aud alkaline salts prevent the appearance of fibrin when albumen is acted upon by oxygen; (3) the formation of fibrin from albumen is accompanied by the evolution of sulphur, phosphorus, and carbonic acid; (4) a temperature ranging be- tween 98° and 110° Fahr. promotes the artificial formation of fibrin; (5) greatest amount of fibrin appears when the albumen is neutral, or slightly acid; (6) the viscidity of the material employed promotes the formation of fibrin; (7) albumen artificially digested in gastric juice produces fibrin by its subsequent oxidation, even after dialysis; (8) gluten dissolved in gastric juice, and then oxidized at the ordinary temperature, yields fibrin. Pauum has repeated and carried farther the often tried experi- ments on transfusion. The results he has arrived at, so far as they bear on physiology, are chiefly the following :—(i) The defibrination of the blood, even Avhen all the natural blood of the animal is replaced by defibrinated blood from another of the same kind, brings no notable12 llEI'OUT ON PHYSIOLOGY. disturbance to pass, (a) The removal of the cliicf part of ilie fibrin has no perceptible inlliienco on the sceretion of urea. The fibrin, there- fore, is not tlic source of urea. (3) Witliiu forty-eight hours of the removal of the greater part of the fibrin from the blood, it is present again in normal quantity, or in excess if inflammation have arisen. This is equally the case when the blood of an animal has been almost entirely replaced by the whi|)ped blood of anotiier of the same kind. (4) The fact that defibrinated blood may take the place of ordinary blood, in respect to all the functions of the body, favours the idea that fibrin is only a secondary product of cell formation and nutrition, and not tlie material from which the tissues are formed. (5) The substi- tuted defibrinated blood, provided the animals be of the same kind, maintains its vitality and constitution as long as the natural blood ; the corpuscles undergo no special variations in amount, and the secretions exhibit no disturbance. (6) The blood of the ruminants will tempora- rily restore the functions of life in an autemiated dog; but it soon decomposes and is cast off tlu-ough the kidneys and bowels, and in the form of internal exudations. (7) Among the products of the decompo- sition of the blood of the ruminant in the vessels of carnivorous animal urea is not included; the secretion of urea, indeed, is altogether suppressed. Thus Bischoft"s view, that urea is formed from the tissues, and not directly from the blood, receives support. lY. DIOESTIOX. TiiiRT, L., and Meissnee, G.—Eesecirches on the Dic/estionof Albium- iious Substances. JSTos. 5 and 6. Zeitschrift fur liationelle Medicin, vol. xiv, pp. 78 and 303. ScuiFF, M.—Preliminar;/ Gontrihiitions to the PhysioJog;/ of the Pancreas, the Spleen, and the Stomach. Archiv fiir Heilkunde, iii, p. 271. ScniFF, M.—0,j the Function of the Spleen. Schweitzerische Zeits- chi'ift fiir Heilkunde, vol. i, p. 201. Patv, F. W.—On the Immunity enjoyed hy the Stomach from heiny (liyested hy its own Secretion during Life. Philos. Trans., 1863, p. 161. Thiry's experiments are in continuation of Meissner and Biittner's, reported in the ' Year-book ' for 1862, p. 5. He confirms the statement that albumen, on digestion with artificial gastric juice, is split into parapeptone, which is insoluble in water, and into certain bodies soluble in water ; also that the metapeptone of albumen, like that of fibrin, is only a transient product of the splitting, and on continued digestion passes into peptone, towards which it is a step. In reference to the tin-ee forms of peptone yielded by fibrine, Thiry found that the solution of albumen yielded none of the so-called a peptone, but that it always contained h peptone and c peptone. He further confirms that the same changes wdiich are eftected in albumen by digestion with hydrochloric acid and pe])sine are produced also, but in a longer time, by boiling in water ; the metapeptone, however, is not converted into peptone. Alkalies oppose the effect of boiling.13 DIGESTIOX. The ultimate analysis of albumen, peptone, and parapeptone, shows that tlie elemcnta are essentially unaltei-ed, and that the difference is one of molecular arrangement. Meissner and De Bary found tbat vegetable albuminous substances (from rye, wheat, and peas) gave the same results on artificial digestion or boiling with water as animal albumen, viz., parapeptone and two peptones. Parapeptone, by continued digestion or boiling, becomes less and less soluble, so tliat after a time it is precipitated even from the 2§ solution of HCi. This change, however, takes place with some kinds sooner than with others, and is especially rapid in that derived from casein and from tlie fibrin of blood, which is insoluble in the said solution immedi- ately on its production by the usual period of ai'tificial digestion. To tl)is'form of parapeptone it is that the name of dyspeptone Avas given, which accordingly is not a special substance, but is only parapeptone that has become less soluble. Scliiff has submitted the fact that an infusion of the pancreas doea not digest albumen during fasting to further examination. He found that to the charging of the pancreas with the necessary ferment for the digestion of albumen, two conditions are necessary—the presence of the so-called peptogene in the blood, and the act of absorption in the stomach. These two conditions are united when peptogenic substances are absorbed from the stomach, but they can be separated from each other; e. y., by injecting peptogene into the veins, and by causing non- albuminous bodies to be absorbed by the stomach. In this latter case it was found that the absorption of fat by the stomach was much more eftcctive than that of soluble starch. In general, those substances wliich, when absorbed by the stomach, acted least on the pancreas, were those which are chiefly taken up by the blood-vessels; those which are taken up chiefly by the lymph-vessels acted most. Since the act of absorption by the absorbents of the stomach is essential to the production of the digestive ferment in the pancreas, ISchiff concludes that it must occasion an alteration in the gland itself, in a reflex manner ; and, in fact, he observed that, after extirpation of the solar plexus or destruction of its connections with the spinal cord, tlie charging of the pancreas was absolutely prevented. This reflex change in the pancreas, Schiff believes, consists in the active dilatation of its vessels (sec ' Year-book,' 1861, pp. 87, 88), by which a path is opened to the blood through portions of the gland-tissue otherwise inaccessible, so tliat it comes into contact with special elements which before it did not reach. Schiff has seen the vessels of the pancreas apparently more numerous and penetrating in a digesting than in a fasting dog, and the secretion more abundant when the stomach absorbed without digesting. But the charging of the pancreas, according to Corvisart's and Schiff a observations, begins only in the fourth hour of digestion, while the vascular dilatation reaches its maximum in the second or even the first hour. jS'or docs the injection of more peptogene into the blood-vessels during the first hour of digestion hasten the charging. A third con- dition, therefore, is necessary, and Schiff finds it in an action exerted onuei'out on physiology. 14 the peptogeue through the spleen, which lie has previously found reason to think exerts an action of this kind. As confirmatory of tliis view, he refers to the fact that the spleen undergoes a turgescence during diges- tion, which reaches its maximum about the fifth hour—the same at wliich the charging of the pancreas also is greatest. Experiments were instituted in which the spleen was extirpated, or its vessels tied, and, according to expectation, it was found that the infusion of the pancreas exhibited no power of digesting albumen, while that of the stomach was increased two or threefold. This latter fact was expected also, since the stomach can be charged with unaltered jDcptogene, and this, after extir- pation of the spleen, accumulates more largely in the blood. These experiments were performed on dogs and cats, the pylorus and some- times the oesophagus being also tied. Parallel experiments were per- formed, in which every step was the same, except the removal of the spleen or ligature of its vessels. In a cat, after ligature of the splenic vessels and pylorus, dextrin and artificially digested albumen were in- jected into the stomach. After six hours, the infusion of the stomach digested the enormous amount of eleven and a half Avhites of eggs ; that of the pancreas none. In some cases in which the spleen, though not tied nor removed, yet did not become turgid, the pancreas was not charged, and the same result followed the abolition of its function by painting it with ammonia. Also, when the splenic vessels are tied, no digestion of albumen takes place in the duodenum of dogs, a ligature being placed on the pylorus. Experiments with vegetable feeders yielded the same results. As by removal of the spleen the abolished digestive function of the pancreas is laid upon the stomach, so in removal, injury, or disease of the pancreas, the stomach also takes on a compensatorj^ action, becom- ing more strongly charged with peptogeue. So loss of function of the pancreas is innocuous in respect of nutrition, for the same reason that removal of the spleen is so. The use of the pancreas in respect to the digestion of albuminous substances lies in the fact that the gastric juice never completely re- solves these substances into soluble absorbable forms, but always with the peptones produces also perapeptone, which requires further change before it can be used for nutrition. This change, as IMeissner has shown, the pancreatic juice effects. When the pancreas cannot act, as after removal of the spleen, the parapeptone is unused, and more pep- tone is needed to supply its place. Thus is sufficiently explained the increased appetite so often observed after removal of the spleen, the degree of which depends upon the extent to which the albumen of the food is capable of being converted into peptones by the stomach. On a flesh diet the increase of appetite is greater than on a vegetable diet. In tins connection, a case reported by Adelmaun, in the * Deutsche Klinik' for 1856 is interesting. A woman, aged 22, suffered in con- sequence of an injury from a hernia of the spleen, for which the organ was removed. In thirty days she left the hospital in perfect health, and so remained, but her appetite was enormous. The absorption of fat, Schiff thinks, is increased after removal of the spleen, because, owing to the greater digestive activity of the stomach,LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 15 the fat-formers are more isolated in the intestines, and the pancreatic juice, digesting no albuminates, is concentrated upon them alone. Pavy has proved the insufficiency of the view that the protection of the living stomach from digestion is due to the perpetual renewal of the epitirelium, hy dissecting off a portion of the mucous membrane, and show- ing that digestion of the exposed portion does not ensue. He proposes, instead, the doctrine that the acid of the gastric juice is neutralized by the alkaline blood circulating in the vessels of the part. Numerous ex- periments are adduced; among others, a portion of the living stomach was surrounded by a ligature, digestion was suffered to go on, and it was found that the ligatured portion was digested, the remainder of the organ escaping. The digestion of portions of living animals, and the presence of entozoa within the stomach, are shown to be not incompatible with the view suggested. T. LXilPHATIO STlSTEM. VoK EECKLiKGHArsEsr, r.—On tlie Absorption of Fat. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxvi, p. 172. ToMSA, W.—On the part taken ly the Origins of the Lymphatic Vessels in Wzitrifion mid Inflammation. Casopis Idk cesk, 7, 8, 9. Viertel- jahrschrift fur die Prak. Heilkunde, vol. iii, Analekten, p. 2. On injecting blood, or milk, or a solution of sugar coloured with cin- nabar, Indian ink, or cobalt, into the peritoneum of rabbits, v. Kecklinghausen found, that while the lymphatics of all other parts remained unaltered, those of the tendinous centre of the diaphragm became distended, and exhibited fat-globules, blood-corpuscles, or particles of colouring matter, according to the iiuid used. He found also that he could produce the same result on portions of the tendinous centre which he removed, with precautions to secure their natural tension. He succeeded also in detecting the details of the process be- neath the microscope. At certain points of the lymphatic vessels in this region there were formed ' whirlpools,' to which all the corpuscles of milk placed in contact with the membrane were rapidly attracted, and after passing through them reappeared within the vessels. By means of a solution of silver, dark spots were prodiiced in the region of these whirlpools, which spots v. Kecklinghausen considers to indicate the presence of openings in the walls of the lymphatics. These openings are twice the size of the blood-corpuscles, and as large as the largest globules of milk. These lymphatics, therefore, in the rabbit, communi- cate by open mouths with the cavity of the peritoneum. The purpose of this communication, in v. Eecklinghausen's view, is to effect the absorption of the peritoneal fluid, which, like that of all the large cavities, contains corpuscles similar to those of lymph. Openings in the lymphatic vessels of the pleura and pericardium, however, were not detected. On examining the forces by which this motion of fluids into the lymphatics is effected, y. Kecklmghausen found that it was indepeu-llEPOUT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 16 dent of pressure on the peritoneal Burface of the diiipliragni, and would take place even wlicn it had to overcome the weiglit of a tliin layer of iluid ; that it took place equally when all the veins around the lerniiua- tion of the thoracic duct were tied, and wlien all traction on the part of the lungs was cut oil". The process, therefore, is due fundamentally, not to any agency external to the lymphatic system, but to the relation of the lyniphalic vessels and their contents fo the absorbed fluid. It cannot, however, be classed either with the phenomena of endosmose or those of capillary attraction, and resembles most nearly tlic phenomena of sub- stitution of lluids in capillary tubes discussed by Briicke. If pressure is not the agent of absorption in this case, it is probably not concerned, as suggested, in absorption within the intestinal villi. Tomsa affirms that the lymphatic system originates in a series of lacuntB in the connective tissue, the walls of which are formed only by this tissue, and which communicate with the perfectly formed lymphatic vessels, either directly or through a system of lymph ' tubes,' which are small canals without proper walls, and bounded only by denser layers of the connective tissue. These maybe sepai*ated by pressure of fluid, and the lymph-tubes then lose themselves in the lacun;e. The lacuna) are not formed from cells, but are simply the interspaces left in the formation of the bundles and fibrils of the connective tissue. The secretion of lymph is determined by the difference of pressure within and without the blood-vessels, and is radically a process of filtration, with the characters of which it agrees. It can be produced in its nor- mal characters after death. Increased pressure causes the exudation of more organic constituents ; diminished pressure, of fewer, but with an increase in the quantity of salts. The expanded roots of the lymph- vessels are nutritive reservoirs, rather than mere absorbents; they are media between the supplying capillaries and the consuming and elabor- ating cells. The lacunje surround the capillaries so as to form a kind of partitioned sheath around them. Tomsa thinks these facts have a bearing on the idea that should be entertained of nutrition and of in- flammation, and that Virchow's doctrine, which ascribes to the cell all the active influence in these processes, is too exclusive. The blood and the fluid eff"used from it into the lympb-lacunte, should rather be i-cgarded as the starting-point, and from the latter may come the influences which determine the activity of the cells. In the chain of nutrition, Tomsa places first the blood and lymph-corpuscles, then the cells of the parenchyma, and again concludes with the lymph-corpuscles. The cells exercise a secondary influence upon the contents of the lymph- lacunje, and may, e. g., produce in them an increase of fibrinogenous material, which, however, only becomes true fibrin by entering the vessels and coming into contact with the blood-corpuscles. An increased pressure within the capillaries, continued imtil the ])henomena of sfasis result, has for consequence the filling of the lymph-lacuna) with contents entirely diflering from the ordinary lymph. The experiments were made on the testicle of the dog, by constriction of the veins. The interspaces of the connective tissue became distended M ith fluid, which in some cases excited new cell formation; but only when the blood17 BILE, AND FUXCTIONS OF THE LIVER. became staguaut iu the capillaries, and the corpuscles adhered to the walls of the vessels and to each other. These distended lacuusc, becoming dark and granular, are what A'irchow has called the connectiye-tissue- corpuscles, and they really bear a very difterent signification from that which he has assigned them. In ])arenchymatous inflammation the lacuna; are passive, and become filled by the increased cell growth. YI. BILE, AND I'UNCTIOXS OE TUE LIVEH. Betz, W.—On ilie Bloodstream in the Liver, cspecialli/ in tlie irej}atic Artery. Henle iind Pfeufer's Zeitschrift, vol. xviii, p. 44. liopPE Seyler, F.—On the Destination of J3ile in the Intestine. Vir- chow's Archiv, vol. xxvi, p. jjip. EoHHia, A.—On the Influence of the Bile upon the Action of the Heart. Archiv fiir Heilkunde, August, 1863, p. 385. Betz sought to determine the manner of the circulation within the liver by means of currents of gum-Avater driven through the hepatic artery and portal vein of a liver, placed as nearly as possible iu its natural position. He found that—(i) Under the same pressure more than twice as much blood passed through the portal vein as through the artery, after allowing for the difference of calibre, i. e. the resistance to the hepatic is greater than to the portal circulation. On an average, the diameter of the branches of the portal vein is five times that of the corresponding artery. (3) Blood passed more readily through the hepatic artery when less passed through the vein. (3) Pressure on the gall-ducts hindered the flow through the A"ein. (4) As far as could bo judged, filling of the liver-cells had the same effect. (5) Increased pressure around the liver also diminished the flow through the vein. (6) On forciug fluid through the portal vein in either direction, none escaped from the hepatic artery. (7) On forciug it through the hepatic artery, more escaped from the portal than from the hepatic vein. (8) Tying the hepatic artery (above the origin of the pancreatico-duodenalis) caused fatty degeneration of the liver, but did not arrest the secretion of bile. The experiment was not, however, continued beyond forty- eight hours. The fiEces of the dog, according to Hoppe Seyler, contain no sub- stance representing the biliary acids except cholalic acid, and this, together with cholesterine and pigment, are the only substances derived from the bile which are found iu the ficces. The cholalic acid is derived from tauro- and glyco-cholic acid by a spontaneous decomposition out of tlie body, and it appears that the process is the same within the bowel; for neither the pancreatic nor the intestinal secretion seems to expedite it. The change begins in the small intestine, but is chiefly effected in the colon. Only half the quantity of the secreted biliary acid is represented in the fajces evacuated (in the dog), but Hoppe Seyler has not as yet been able to find any evidence of its reabsorption. The frequently noticed slowness of the pulse iu jaundice induced fiohrig to put to the test the effect of bile upon the heart, by injecting it18 llEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. into tho veins. His conclusions are—(i) The retardation of the pulse in jaundice arises irom the presence of bile in the blood. (2) The bile owes this property to the glycocholato and taurociiolate, that is, to the chelate of soda, which it contains. (3) The retardation is effected by a specific paralysing action of the bile-salts upon the ganglionic system of the heart. (4) How the bile-salts alfect the ganglia is undeter- mined. (5) The paralysing influence of the cliolate of soda ujjon the motion of the heart is exhibited also upon the activity of the lymphatic hearts. (6) With the retardation of the pulse after injection of the bile-salts a notable diminution of temperature is to be observed (? collapse). (7) Tlie use of bile as a febrifuge may therefore be sug- gested. (8) Tlie bile-acids can be taken up by the kidneys; under normal relations, however, they are not taicen up, or in very small quantity. (9) The decomposition of the bile-acids in the blood ia more probable than their elimination. (10) The vagus nerves have a compensatory action in respect to the various states of excitement of the ganglia of the heart. (The retardation of the pulse waa diminished by their section.) Yll. CIECULATIOK AKD EESPIEATIO>-. V. Bezold, a.—On a 2\ew Motor Nervous Sptem of tlie Heart. Berlin Med. Central Zeitung, No. 67. Wiener Med. Wochenschrift, Dec. 20th, 1862. GoLTz, P.—The Vagus Nerve and tlie Heart. Virchow's Arehiv, vol. xxvi, p. I. Eeiset, J.—Chemical Researches on the Bespiration of the Animals of a Farm. Comptes Eendus, April 20th, 1863, p. 740. Sachs, J.—A Contribution to the Question as to the I'laee of Formation of Carlonic Acid in the Organism. Eeichert und Du Bois Eey- mond's Arehiv, 1863, No. 3, p. 345. Bezold has previously confirmed the statement, that in the sym- pathetic nerve of the neck fibres are contained, by the irritation of ■wbicb quickening of the heart's motion and an increase of the blood- pressure in the arteries are produced within certain limits. In the course of these researches he has found a new path taken by the motor nerves of the heart, which establishes a still more important and inti- mate connection of the heart with the cerebro-spinal system than either the sympathetic or the pneumogastrics. The main results of the experiments carried out on rabbits com- pletely paralysed by weak doses of woorara are the following:—(i) In animals in which the vagi and the sympathetic in the neck are divided, irritation of the medulla oblongata produces a very considerable ac- celeration of the pulse, and a great increase of the arterial pressure—in many cases to more than double. (2) On section of the spinal cord in any spot above the seventh cervical vertebra there at once appear all the indications of a very diminished action of the heart; sinking of tho pressure in the carotid to three quarters its former height, &c.; the heart's sounds become almost inaudible. On the other hand, no alteration en-19 CIRCULATION AND RESPIRATION. sues when the cord is divided about the third or fourth dorsal vertebra, (3) On irritating the upper segment of the cord thus divided in the neck, no increase in the pulse is produced ; on irritating the lower seg- ment the diminished action of the heart is again raised to or above its normal amount. The nerves in question, therefore, leave the spmai cord between the seventh cervical and the fourth dorsal vertebrte. (4) If, in animals weakly poisoned as above described, both the me- dulla oblongata and the peripheral portions of the divided vagi are irritated, there is produced a diminution of the blood-pressure, and retar- dation or ceasing of the pulse. The influence of the cord, therefore, 13 controlled by that of the vagi. Bezold believes that there is thus es- tablished the existence of a new central organ for the heart's motions, situated either in the medulla oblongata or in the brain, and that the nerves from it, passing through the lower cervical and iirst dorsal ganglia, reach the heart as the middle and inferior cardiac nerves. This central organ produces, according to him, three fourths of all the impelling force of the heart, and by its abnormal excitement its con- tractions may be raised to sixfold the power which they possess through innervation by the cardiac ganglia alone. It stands in reflex connection with the sensitive cerebro-spinal fibres, and through it come to pass all quickening and strengthening of the pulsation which is pro- duced by pain, or terror, or other psychical influences. _ Various poisons, especially digitalis and strychnine, the vagi being divided, in- crease and strengthen the heart-beat by stimulating this system to increased activity. The first part of Groltz's paper consists of a proof that the vagi are t1i-j only sensitive nerves of the heart. If the apex of the exposed heart of a frog is drawn forward, a small band, containing a vein, which forms a sort of bridge between the two surfaces of the pericardium, cut through, and acetic acid applied to the posterior surface of the heart at the spot at which the vense cavse enter the sinus, a strong contraction of the whole body of the animal takes place. This result always occurs. The section of one pneumogastric nerve diminishes it, the section of both prevents it. If, by the irritation of one pneumogastric, the heart is brought to a standstill, a reflex motion of the limbs is stiU produced, in the way above described, through the other. A frog was poisoned with woorara, one hind limb having been previously separated from the body except by the sciatic nerve ; on applying the acetic acid to the sinus, the detached limb only was convulsed. Thus, the sensi- bility of the heart is maintained when the motor nerves are paralysed by the poison, as C. Bernard and KoUiker have shown is the case in respect to the sensitive nerves of the skin. In a new-born kitten, pinching the auricle produced reflex movements of the limbs after the vagi were divided ; this one experiment, therefore, would indicate that in mammalia the heart possesses other sensitive nerves besides the vagi. Goltz examined also the reflex paralysis of the heart from irrita- tion of the sensitive nerves. Various kinds of irritation, especially throwing the creature on the ground, have been noticed to produce stoppage of the heart in the frog, and the result has been generallyIIKPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 20 ascribed to the direct bIiocIc. Goltz fouud that iu certain water-froga he could temporarily stop tlie heart by quickly tapping the abdomen, as, e.y., by a rapidly revolving spatula. The stoppage was diastolic, precisely like that produced by irritation of the vagi; it could be pre- vented by destroying the central origin of tiie vagi, or by tying boUi of them. That the eil'cct was not due to direct sliock was proved by its not occurring if the tapping was applied to the head or spine ; it was l>roduccd witli extreme readiness by tapping the exposed stomacli or bowels. In the latter way the respiration also may be speedily stopped, and tlic frog reduced to a state of apparent death, iu which condition no rellex movements can be excited by irritation of the iieart. By irritation of the nerves of the viscera the same effects could not be constantly produced. Acetic acid or hot iron applied to the ex- tremities produced stopping of the heart, but through the blood, and not reflexly. The bearing of these facts on pathology is manifest. In reference to the effect of throwing a frog on the ground, the stoppage is systolic (tetanus) if it be done Avith violence; diastolic, with relaxa- tion of all the muscles, if more gently: the result is the same wlien the brain and cord are destroyed. With i-eference to the checking function of the vagi on the heart, Goltz urges—against Browu-Soquard's idea, that they act by con- tracting its nutritive vessels—that in the yento cavte and sinus of the frog's heart no such contractile vessels are to be found, and yet these are the most important parts iu reference to its contraction, and their motion is at once checked by irritation of the vagus. The sensitive fibres, and those by which the checking function is exercised, are not the same; woorara paralyses the latter, and not the former. Goltz is of opinion that through the vagi an influence is exerted on the ganglia of the heart, like that of concussion in respect to the brain and cord. Having tied a ligature around the auricles iu a frog until the ven- tricles came to a standstill, he then cut the ligature again. The ventricles remained at rest, choked with blood ; the auricles continued pulsating. He then violently galvanized the medulla oblongata; the ventricles began again to contract, the auricles stood still. This result he ascribes to a paralysis of the vagi in respect to the ventricles, from the efiect of the ligature. lleiset's experiments were made with a view to agricultural rather than to physiological results. The animals—calves, slieep, pigs, tin-keys and geese—Avere enclosed iu an apparatus to which fresh oxygen was gradually supplied, the COg being withdrawn by means of a solution of potasli; the air was kept in constant motion. With sheep and calves, the general results were the same. Prom 86 to 99-4 per cent, of the oxygen consumed was given off in the form of CO.,; there was an exhalation of nitrogen, and of proto-carburet of hydrogen. From y to 17 grammes of carbon (from 140 to 260 grains) were burnt in the hour. With pigs, the results were very different; little or no nitrof^en was exhaled; a boar of eiglit mouths absorbed a demi-litre. Scarcely any carburctted hydrogen was produced ; iu one case, 8 litres 'jf free hydrogen (i4'o8 pint.*) were given ofi'. For 100 parts of OCinCULATION AND HESPIRATIOX. 21 coiisunied, 82 to 85 parts were given ofF in COo; in one case there wan an excess of C0"„ Avinch contained 509 grammes (17 pounds) of oxygen, in place of 483 (i6'o3 pounds) consumed. The turkeys and geese confirmed tlie results previously obtained, with fowls. There is an exhalation of nitrogen, but none of hydrogen: 77-7 per cent, of the 0 consumed is given otF in the C0._,; for fowls, the mean Avas 92 per cent. The following table exhibits the normal respiration of a sheep, and its respiration when suftering under an attack of mcfeorization. The excess of carburettcd hydrogen is ascribed to the formation of that gns in the stomach: Oxviieu I'onsuraea . . . ^G.vf.i.sgnmn. [i o/..] 478'o88 gnmu. [i5-6o/.. j CO., produced . . . .502-721 „ [16-2 „ ] 661-875 „ | 20 3 „ J Nitrogen exhaled. . . . 7-!; 14 .. [ 2 drs. J 41-880 „ | 1-4 „ J I'rotocnrlmret of hydrogon e.\hak'd 70-744 litres [ iSpints] 21-923 litres [37?'"*"] (,'iirbon burnt per hom-. . . 9-840 graiiii. 12-5 drs.] 12-092 gvmni. [3 drnis.J lielation between the wciglit of the "1 oxygen consumed . . . j Duration of the experiment . . 1311. 56 m. 14I1. i2ni. The object of Sczelkow's researches was to establish the relation l)ot\veen the consumed oxygen and various processes of oxidation, in their dependence upon muscular activity. Three series of observations were made—(i) to determine the modification the total interchange of gases in the bodj^ undergoes, through the interruption or diminution of the stream of blood in a given mass of muscle ; (2) to examine the changes which take place in the gases of the blood supplied to the muscles; (3) to compare the total interchange of gases in the body during rest with the same during muscular activity. The first series of experiments were made on rabbits ; the abdominnl aorta was compressed, the absorption of O and exhalation of COo being examined before and after. The results were indecisive; neither the amount of the COo nor of the O, nor the relation of the two, was affected in a constant manner, and this independently of the quietude or restlessness of the animal, although this latter had in one case a marked effect in increasing the exhalation of COo. In the second series of experiments blood taken from the vena pro- funda femoris in dogs, both while the limb was at rest and after it had been thrown into contraction, was compared in respect to its gaseous contents with blood from the carotid artery. The following results were obtained:—(1) The colour of the venous blood was in some cases brighter, in some darker, after contraction than before. 1 n one case, thougli brighter, it contained less oxygen. (2) In the muscle, while at rest, there goes on a rapid formation of CO.,, the venous blood containing, on an average, 671 per cent, more than the arterial. After contraction this average is increased to 10-79 P®^ cent. ; and the increase is the more considerable, inasmuch as tlie circulation is also quickened. (.3) The oxygen in the venous blood, when the muscle is at rest, is 9 per cent, less than in arterial; after contraction it sinks llfallliy. Diseased.22 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. from I to 8 per cent, more ; the amount of oxygen present may be as low as I or 2 per cent. ; allowing for the quickened circulation, this shows the cousuraptiou of oxygen to bo very great. (4) The iucreaso of CO.2 was greater in proportion than the consumption of O. The third series of experiments Mas designed to put this last fact to the test. Dogs and rabbits were confined in an apparatus by whieli the gases given oft' by tlieni in respiration were collected, aiid tiiese Avere analysed, first during rest, and again after the hinder limbs liad been tetanized. The result showed that during contraction more CO,^ was given oft" in proportion to the 0 consumed than during rest. The increase of CO^ was from 82 to i8o'5 per cent.; of 0, less than 50 per cent., except in one instance, when it was 7.37. This dispro- portion could not arise merely from the giving off" of CO2 previously contained in the blood; the amount was much too great; nor, for the same reason, could it be ascribed to a using up of the previously existing free O. It follows, that in contracting muscles other decom- positions take place than in muscles at rest. Two explanations are possible—either, in contraction, substances are burnt which are very rich in oxygen, as, for example, the formic and acetic acid shown to exist in muscles by Scherer; or, COj is formed in other ways, without the aid of the inspired 0, by the consumption of 0, which enters into the constitution of the organic atoms. To put to the test the question whether CO.2 is foi*med in the tissues or in the blood, Sachs took two portions of blood from the carotid artery of the dog, and examined the gas-contents of one immediately, and of the other at intervals of twelve, twenty-four, and forty-eight hours. These experiments were made at the temperature of the air. The result was that in the course of forty-eight hours the oxygen almost disappeared, and its place was taken by COg in slight excess. The amount of chemically united COg was slightly increased. No further change took place in seventy-two hours. Sachs confirms Meyer's statement, that if blood is defibrinated, no CO^ is formed in it. The following table exhibits the result of one experiment. In 100 vol. of In 100 vol. of blood THIfermrf Iresli Mood. after forty-eight hours. wuiLrcnce. Free gas . . . 44*722 44"ii4 — ©•6o8 Free COo . . . 29'S92 42-104 -f 12-512 „ O ". . . . i.r677 1-029 —12-648 „ N . . . . 1-453 o'QSi — o'472 Chemically combined C0|) 3-907 5'499 "r ''592 These changes are almost identical with those found by Setschenow in the blood of suffocated animals, but they take place more slowly. To determine whether the greater rapidity of the formation of COo in sufibcation was due to the higher temperature, or to the blood being in contact with the tissues, a portion of blood was kept for six liours at the temperature of the animal body. The gas-contents exhibited scarcely any change; the same result was found on keeping blood for forty-eight hours at zero.23 CIRCULATION AND RESPIUATIOX. Oteiibeck, E.—On the Albuminous Urine ichich follows inlerruption of the Blood-stream. Wiener Sitzungsberichte, vol. xlvii, p. 189. Hermann's experiment on temporary compression of the renal artery liaving shown that albuminuria was one of the most constant results (see '"year-Book,' 1862, p. 26), Overbeck was induced to submit the subject to further investigation. Three questions were chiefly con- sidered—(i) The extent to which the albuminuria might be thus induced. (2) The means by which the result was brought about; whether (as Hermann thought) purely through increased pressure on the capillaries, or through alteration also of the secreting membranes. (3) To com- pare the changes in the normal urinary constituents (urea, for example) ^vith the appearance and variations of the albumen. To avoid modifi- cations from injury to the renal nerves, the blood-stream was interrupted by compressing in some cases the renal arteries, in others the aorta; by introducing a bladder empty into the right side of the heart, and then inflating it; and finally, by producing transient suff'ocation. The experiments were made on dogs, which were mostly well fed on meat the previous evening. Overbeek's conclusions are the fol- lowing :—(i) Albumen appears in the urine, not only after compression of the renal arteries, but also after inflation of the heart and attacks of suffocation. (2) The seci-etion of urine returns, not immediately on the restoration of the circulation, but after the lapse of from five to twenty-two or even forty-four minutes. (3) The amount of the urine is sometimes increased, sometimes diminished. (4) There is no fixed relation between the quantity of urine and the per-centage of albumen. (5) If the amount of urine sinks when the albumen appears, the ab- solute amount of urea diminishes in all cases, even when its per- centage increases ; even if the urine increases, the absolute amount of urea diminishes, unless the urine rises to a multiple of the original quantity. (6) The process which introduces the flow of albumen checks the secretion of urea. (7) Between the per-centage of urea and albumen there exists no fixed relation. (8) Tying the ureter may entirely prevent the passage of albumen into the urine. (9) Nar- rowing of the renal artery seems also to diminish the amount of tlie albumen. (10) The albuminuria after interruption of the blood-stream seems to be due to a combination of several main conditions ; probably an alteration of the membranes is not less concerned than an elevation of the blood-pressure. (11) The reaction of the albuminous urine is very variable, often changing rapidly ; neutral or alkaline urine often at once becomes acid with the first appearance of albumen. (12) In albuminous urine, after interruption of the blood-stream, there are found epithelial cylinders, but no fibrinous coagula; the former do not appear immediately, but only after a prolonged continuance of the albuminuria. The flow of albumen, therefore, is not (as AVillich holds) a consequence of the throwing off of the epithelium, but its cause. (13) Within the kidney-epithelium there exists tlie same kind of mole- cular motion that presents itself in the salivary, pus-, and blood- corpuscles. (14) The constitution of the kidney differs after long- continued albuminuria from that which is found after a short cou, tiuuance. In the former case there exist stases of various extent,HEPOllT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 24) SCOUTETTEN, M. U.Samperimeuis provinr/ the mectricily of the Blood in Living ylnimah. Coniptea Kendus, July aytli, and Nov. 9tl), 186,3. Scoutetten's expei-iineiits wcvc made on liorses. The right carotid artery and Icl't jugiihir veiii being exposed, and a jiortion twelve oenti- metres (4*7 incli) long isolated by ligatures, a glass tube containing a folded sheet of platinum, with a guarded wire attaciied, was inserted into each, and the current of the blood i-e-establislied through them. Every precaution w-as taken to avoid error. When the respective platinum wires were connected with the galvanometer, the needle sullercd a strong deviation; on two occasions it stood at 50"^ and 5'^. The arterial blood was positive, that is, the current passed from tlie vein to the artery. In anotber experiment, blood was received at tlie same moment from the carotid artery and the jugular vein ; the venous blood into a porous vessel surrounded by the arterial blood. The galvanometer exhibited a strong current from the former to the latter, as before. The deviation amounted to 75°, and even after coagulation it still stood at 70°. The author compares this result with that obtained by Gaugain in 18154, in respect to combustion—the curi'ent from the venous blood to the arterial corresponding to that from the carbon to the air. He infers a constant circulation of electricity throughout the most delicate network of the tissues, the arteries and veins being veritable porous vessels. On a later occasion the experiments were repeated with modifications adapted to avoid certain objections. The force of the current produced was found to equal 1-82, the electro-motor power of zinc being represented by 100, and that of a Daniell's cell by 58. Till.—KrSCULAK STSTEir. Leber, T.— On the Influence of the performance of Mechanical Work vjwn the Fatif/ne of Muscles. Henle uud Pfenfer's Zeitschrift, vol. xviii, p. 2G2. Eanke, J.—Besearches on the Chemical Conditions of the Fatigue of Muscles. Eeichert und Du Bois Eeymond's Archiv, No. 4, 1863, p. 422. Metekstein, De., and Thiet, li.—On tlie Belation of the Seat pro- duced ly Muscular Contraction to the Work performed. Henle und Pfeufer's Zeitschrift, vol. xx, p. 45. Leber asserts, as the result of his experiments, that the resistance offered to the muscle during or at the beginning of its contraction exerts the chief influence in producing fotigue; that the influence of the performance of work is doubtful, but always subordinate, and that weighting the muscle during rest does not cause fatigue. Some light may be thrown upon Leber's statements by the experi- ments of Eanke,"who tested the access and duration of the apparent exhaustion of muscles under various conditions. He proved : (r) That, after permitting the escape of the blood from an exhausted muscle, itsMUSCULAR SYSTEAt. 25 irritability partially returned, and that on washing it out with a solution of • per cent, of common salt the restoration was still more perfect. (2)' That tho presence of blood in itself does not diminish, but in- creases, the duration of contractility. It was probable, therefore, that the presence of the products of muscular decomposition in the blood prevented its contraction on stimulus. To put this idea to the test, he injected into the blood-vessels an infusion of the flesh of the animal, which would contain the elements resulting from such decompo- sition. The irritability of the aftected muscles, however, was not diminished by this means, though by immersing them in the fluid they were rapidly rendered unexcitable. On removing the lymph from the lymphatics before injecting the infusion, a difierent result ensued; the contractility of the muscle was rapidly destroyed. The eff"ect of the injection, therefore, is neutralized. This neutralization depends upon the alkalinitj^ of the lymph, by Avhich the acid of the infusion is neutralized, for a solution of lactic acid had the same effect as the infusion of flesh ; and Eanke found that after thus destroying the irri- tability of a muscle it was partially restored by injecting a solution of the carbonate of soda, although the solution of carbonate of soda by itself diminished the irritability. After the irritability of a muscle had been destroyed by the infusion of flesh or lactic acid, it almost entirely reciu-red on the removal of the fluid. The completely fatigued muscle, accordingly, is not in a condition of exhaustion, strictly speaking. It possesses in itself still the conditions for the production of force, as, indeed, is evident when we consider the very slight changes which even the strongest tetanus can evoke; and to renew its excitability it suflices for a time to remove or neutralize its debris. Eanke's experiments were made chiefly on frogs, but the same results were given, though less strikingly, on rabbits. They are expressly confined to the muscles; the nerves having diflTerent relations. Meyerstein and Thiry confirm Solger's statement, that generally the act of contraction of a muscle is accompanied by a diminution of its temperature; subsequently a rise of temperature sets in. They sought to test, by experiments on the gastrocnemius of a frog, and by the use of a very delicate thermo-electric apparatus, whether this rise of tem- perature is strictly proportional to the mechanical work eff'ected by the contraction, and also whether it diff'ered when the muscle exerted traction against a heavy weight without moving it, or lifted a lighter one. Their results are, that the development of heat is a genuine measure of the work performed, alike in either fomn of action. The cooling bears no relation to the subsequent heat; the former comes on immediately, while the latter requires time for its development, and may continue to increase for a few seconds after the muscle has retui'ned to rest. The cooling was more considerable in weak muscles, and was often inversely related to the amount of the weight raised. The authors are of opinion that the sudden cooling is to be ascribed to an alteration of the muscle's specific capacity for heat, corresponding with the alteration of its molecular condition. The heat, on the other hand, corresponds to the chemical change within the muscle, and thus confirms the anticipation26 EEPOHT ON PHYSIOLOGY. that the amount of this ohango corresponds to the force exerted. The greatest amount of heat developed amounted too'.37» ^- (o-666 Fahr.)! IX. METAMOnpnOSIS OF MATTER. YoiT, C.—On the Oi/cle of Mlrof/en in the Animal Organism. Sitzungs- berichte der Kouigl. Acad, der Wissenschaften ?,u Munchen, 186^^, vol. i, p. 69. ' ' ScnuLTZEN, O. —A Contribution to the Doctrine of the Metamorphosis of Matter durinr/ Inanition. Eeichert und Du Bois Eeyinond's Archiv, No. i, 1863. Speck, C.—Further Researches on the efect of Bodily Exertion upon the Human Orr/anism. Archiv fiir Wissenschafdiche lleilkunde, vi, p. 161. (I-Ieule und Pfeufer, vol. xix, p. 389.) SA-IiiSBUET, J. H.—Eapcriments connected loith the Biscoveri/ of Choles- terine and SeroUne as Secretio7is, in health, of the Salivary, Tear, Mammary and Sudorific Glands; of the Testis and Ovary; of the Kidneys in hepatic deranyemenis; of Mucous Membranes when con- yested and inflamed; and in the Fluid of Ascites and inthat of Spnna Bifida. Amer. Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1863, p. 289. ^''ak Deen, J.—Preliminary C'ontrihutions on the production of Urea from Uric Acid by means of the Continuozis Flectric Current. Archiv fiir die Hollandische Beitrage, B. iii, Heft a, p. 146. On the Changes ivhich various bodies may undergo externally to the Animal Organism, but agreeing ivith those luhich take place in the Metamorphosis of Matter tvithin it. Based on the Experi- ments of J. Van Been. lb., iii, Heft 2, p. 225. In consequence of the frequent contradictions given to the state- ment of BischofF and Voit, that the whole of the nitrogen ex- creted is contained in the m^ine and ffeces, and none in the perspira- tion and expired air, A-^oit, not content with recognising the sources of error in the methods by which those contradictory results were obtained, has put the matter anew to the test, choosing for the pur- pose a dove, that being the animal in Avhich the asserted deficit of nitrogen in the urine and fasces was the greatest. It was fed for 124 days on peas, the nitrogen in which was accurately determined. They contained in 3132-4 grammes (7'2lbs.), dried at 100°, i49'4 grammes (5-3 oz.) of nitrogen. The urine and fa;ces, accurately collected by a special apparatus, amounted to 976 grammes (2'2 lbs.), when dried at 100°, and contained i45'9 grammes (5'^ '^^•) of nitrogen, that is, 2'3 per cent, less than the food. But the dove in the mean time had increased in weight 70 grammes (2'5 oz.) ; and this increase, considering the nature of the food, consisted, most probably, of albuminous matter, which would contain 2-4 grammes (37 grains) of nitrogen. Thus, in the urine, fasces, and increase of flesh, Avere contained 148-3 grammes of nitrogen, against i49'4 grammes in the peas consumed (a difference of 17 grains). The ashes of the food and excrement were also compared. The former yielded 94-6 grammes, tlio latter 947. By these numbers it is established that also in the dove in which Boussingault found a27 MOTAlilOllPHOSIS OF MATrEH. deficit of 30 per cent, all the nitrogen is voided in the urine and faeces. The total nitrogen-content of the dove's body amounted to about 14 gi-ainmes {^i&o'j grains); so that if only o-ii gramme of nitrogen (17 grain) had been removed per diem by the respiration, nothing would have remained of it. The weight of the peas consumed Avas eight times greater than that of the dove, and the nitrogen in them ten times more than the dove contained. A girl of nineteen years of age, and free from all other disease, suffered from stricture of the oesophagus, through drinking sulphuric acid, gradually increasing to perfect closure. She lived sixteen days without the introduction of any substance whatever into the stomach; and though nutritive matter, mixed with pepsine and with hydrochloric and lactic acid, was introduced regularly into the rectum, yet the absence of chlorine in the urine before death showed that none was absorbed. Even at the time of death the face was moderately full and the breasts well developed. On the eighth day before death the temperature began to fall, audit sank gradually to 357° C. (96° Fahr.). The mucous mem- brane of the stomach was of a deep-red colour at the pylorus, in other parts of a brownish hue, and in its whole extent greatly swollen. There was hepatization of the left lung. The liver cells were small, and several contained fat; the kidneys were wasted, and contained several, fibrin-cylinders. The chemical phenomena were chiefly the following :—The urine, examined two days before death, contained in twenty-four hours—urea, 6'6 grammes (99 8^ grains); uric acid, o'o66 grammes (i grain) ; hip- puric acid, i-i6 (i7"9 grains); phosphoric acid, i'485 (22-5 grains); creatin moderately abundant; chlorine absent. It contained albumen. Tlie muscles yielded leucin, a small quantity of uric acid, creatinin abundantly ; creatin not to be detected. The richness of the urine in hippuric acid was remarkable; it was more than double the ordinary amount in twenty-four hours (o'5 grm.), although the quantity of uric acid was diminished fivefold. This fact confirms Hallwach's statement, that hippm-ic acid is a product exclu- sively of the regressive metamorphosis of the tissues. The absence of creatin in the muscles may be referred to the want of water, the creatinin which was so largely present differing from it by the addi- tion of 2HO. The leucin may possibly have been a product of decomposition, although the quantity was very large, and the muscle was wholly free from smell. Speck has carried out some new experiments upon young men in respect to the influence of exertion upon the excreta, &c. He found that bodily exertion occasions a decided decrease of weight, and in- creased the total waste and excretion; but after it, for a time, the body wastes less than otherwise in rest, and thus tends to equalise tlie loss. Thus, the increased waste during exertion may escape observation unless the weighing of the body is conducted correspondingly. During rest the increased use of water increases excretion, and leads to a diminution of weight; the contrary is the case during exertion—the bodily weight increases with the use of water, probably through itsnKPOUT ON I'HYfilOLOOy. supplying tlio place of the water that is lost. The quantity of urine diuiiuishes for the most part to the amount of one tliird, owing probably to the increase of water-excretion of the lungs and skin. After the exertion is ended the persjjiration sank to its mean, or below it. In respect to urea, Speek found in one series of observations no difference between rest and exertion; in another, a manifest diminution during exertion; in a third and fourth, a very slight diminution, followed by a slight increase when the exertion was ended; essentially, the urea remained the same daring both periods. On the other hand, in three other series of observations, differing from the former by a less drinking of water and less perspiration, he found a decided increase of urea both during and after the exertion. On the whole, the urea was least when the perspiration was greatest, and Speck has noticed also during rest a diminution of urea accompanying free perspiration. Ifo proof, how- over, is given of the presence of urea in the sweat. According to all Speck's experiments, uric acid is increased during exertion, and this increase amounted, with the exception of one experi- ment when the diet was very poor in nitrogen, to more than that of any other constituent of the urine; for the most part, it was increased a third ; once it was doubled, and once trebled. The other nitrogenous elements of the urine were not examined. The chloride of sodiuni was, on the whole, increased, but this Avas demonstrable in the urine only when its quantity was not diminished, and that of the sweat increased, beyond a certain j^oint. AVith very profuse perspiration, the chloride of sodium in the urine might appear diminished. The sid- phuric and phosphoric acids of the urine were always increased, and for a considerable period. The exhalation of carbonic acid from the lungs was greatly increased. Speck lays stress upon the diminished waste after exertion, -which is doubtless connected with the indisposition to repeat it; and which, if a considerable period be taken together of alternate rest and exertion, would seem to indicate no increase for exertion over rest. The waste is in the one case unequally, in the other equally, distributed. Con- sidering the scanty increase of urea during exei'tion, while yet the loss of weight cannot be wholly referred to excretion of CO2 and water, Speck thinks that the products of the decomposition of albumen leave tlie body in large quantity in other forms than that of urea. Salisbury's experiments serve to carry further the investigations of Dr. riint on cholesterine as an excretion of the liver. (See * Tear-book,' 1862, p. 8.) He gives the following as his conclusions:—(i) Choles- terine occurs largely in the ova of the human subject and of animals. (2) In the seminalfluid of the human subject, seroline (the stercorine of Flint) and cholesterine are largely present, the former more so than the latter. (3) Cholesterine occurs very largely as a secretion in the saliva; no seroline is found. (4) Neither seroline nor cholesterine occurs in healthy urine. (■;) Cholesterine occurs quite largely, and seroline in small quantity, in jaundice-urine. (These bodies are pro- bably always secreted by the kidneys whenever the liver, through organic or functional derangements, ia unable to secrete them from the blood.)29 METAMOUPHOSIS OF JLm'Kll. (6) Cholosteriue and colourless blood-discs are secreted or efFiised from liif'hly congested and iullanied mucous surfaces. (7) Cholesterme is secreted or effused from the ])eritoueal (serous) membrane in ascites. (S) Cholesterine occurs largely in the fluid of spina bifida tumours. (9) Cholesterine is secreted by the tear-glands. (10) Human milk, previous to birth, is rich in cholesterine. No seroline detected in the experiment made. (11) After the birth of the child, and during nurs- ing, the mammary glands secrete largely cholesterine and serolme. (13) Butter, beef,' and hog suet, contain cholesterine and seroline. (14) The primary forms of tlie crystals of cholesterine appear to be the cube and rhombic prism, and that of seroline the very acute rhombic or rhomboidal prism, though usually appearing as simply acicular. (15) Cholesterine and seroline are largely secreted from the blood by the sudorific glands during the sweating stage of intermittent fever. These glands become important depurative organs in this disease. (16) The kidneys largely secrete cholesterine in intermittent fever. (17) The kidneys secrete cholesterine in varicella. (18) The kidneys secrete cholesterine in diphtheritic conditions. (19) The kidneys largely secrete cholesterine in the disease known as diabetes mellitus. (20) Tlie kidneys secrete cholesterine and seroline in remittent fever. (21) The kidneys largely secrete cholesterine in typhoid fever. (22) Cholesterine is secreted by the sudorific glands in health. A^an Deen observes that, from the connection of the forces external to tlie body, we know that the chemical and physical changes going on within it must be constantly accompanied by electric disturbances, of the exact effects of which, however, we know but little. He has there- fore tried to ascertain how far the chemical changes which animal bodies present can be effected directly by an electrical current, and has sub- mitted various organic fluids to a continuous stream vfiih that view. He now relates especially the result of his experiments on uric acid. A little uric acid (which is ascertained to be free from urea) is mixed up in a large quantity of water, so that a part is dissolved. The apparatus employed consists of two elements of Bunsen's pile, with platinum elec- trodes, which are immersed, being separated by a piece of glass, in the vessel containing the solution. In ten or fifteen minutes, even though the current has been weak, urea can be detected. If warm water bo added, the action becomes more rapid and intense. The quantity of urea formed is in direct relation to the time dui'ing which the current has acted on the uric acid. If the current were continued for a sufli- cieut length of time, he found distinct crystals of urea, the nature of which he confirmed by forming nitrate oi' urea. He believes that car- bonic and oxalic acids are formed with the urea, but is not positive on this point, although he sometimes found crystals resembling those of oxalate of urea. The colour of the urine becomes darker, and its coin- position appears altered. A report is also given of the general results of Van Deeu's experiments. He has obtained by means of the continuous current—i. From albumen, cells resembling cytoid corpuscles, a substance insoluble in M-ater (libriu ?), urea, alhmtoiu, and uric acid (\ ery probably). 2.30 REPOET ON PnYSIOLOOY. From mucus, morphological elements, uric acid, and urea. 3. From uric acid, urea, and allantoin. 4. Prom f/li/cin, urea. 5. From ihein, urea. 6. From yli/cerine, sugar and lactic acid. 7. From inosile, lactic acid. 8. From the lactate, formiate, buli/rate, and acetate of lime, carbonate of lime and water. 9. From tartrate of lime, carbonate and oxalate of lime. 10. From r/im, carbonate and oxalate of lime and water. 11. From sugar. 12. Yrom ami/(/daUn, Hugar, hydro- cyanic acid, and probably volatile oil of almonds, 13. From tannic acid, sugar and gallic acid. 14. From salicin, sugar and saligenin or saliretin. Electricity has no influence on starch, dextrin, glycogen, or sugar. Van Deen has also subjected various substances to the action of ozone, with the following results :—i. From uric acid, urea and allan- toin. 2. From gljjcin, urea. 3. From c/lycerine, sugar and, very pro- bably, lactic acid. Ozone appears to have no influence on starch. Is^itric acid and heat produce sugar from starch, the corpora amylacea, mannite, and gum. The fresh pancreas of a dog, whether the reaction was or was not acid, produced fatty acids, glycerine and sugar, from butter, and sugar from (jlycerine. At a temperature of 32° E. (104° Fahr.) calves' liver produced glycogen and sugar from glycerine, sugar from starch, and at the ordinary temperature sugar from dextrine. (See 'Tear-book,' 1862.) X.—ITEETOTJS STSTE3X. BeeNAED, C.—Oculo-pupillary phenomena, produced by section of the Cervical Sympathetic, independent of the Vascular and Calorific Phenomena of the Head. Journal de la Physiologic, t. 5, No. 19. ViGOUEOtrx, E.— On the Influence of the Movements of Bespiration on those of the Iris. Comptes Eeudus, Sept. 28th, 1863. PhiI/LIPpeaitx, J. M., and Vtjlpiab", A.—Researches on the Beunion, end to end, of Sensitive Nervous Fibres tvith Motor ones. Comptes Eendus, Jan. ^th, 1B63, p. 54. Setchenow, M.—On the Modo'aiors of Eejlex Movement in the Brain of the Frog. Comptes Eendus, Jan. 5th, 1863, p. 50. In continuation of his previous experiments upon the vascular nerves, and their independence of the musculo-motor nerves (see ' Year-book' for 1862, p. 31), C. Bernard proceeds to show that in the eftects pro- duced by the section of the great sympathetic in the neck, namely, increase of heat, vascularity, and sensibility, contraction of the pupil, retraction of the globe, and flattening of the cornea, it is necessary to distinguish two orders of symptoms :—ist. Vascular and calorific effects, due to section of the sympathetic, and the same all over the body, and secondly, symptoms which he terms 'oculo-pupillary.' That these are respectively due to distinct nerves, he has obtained experimental ^'^Iifthe dog, he finds that the division of the roots of the first and second dorsal nerves produces all the eftects upon the eye that result fromNEllVOUS SYSTEM. 81 division of the sympathetic, and that galvanizing the cut ends produces upon that organ the same eflects as galvanism of the divided sympa- thetic ; but that in both cases none of the vascular and calorific phe- nomena are exhibited. On the other hand, by dividing subcutaneously the ascending filament of the sympathetic between the second and third dorsal vertebrae, there ■\ras produced, after a few seconds, a considerable increase of temperature, but without any of the ocular phenomena. After two days the difierence of temperature on the two sides amounted to 5-8° C, (10-4 Fahr.) the eyes having precisely the same appearance. Besides this anatomical distinctness, the two sets of nerves have dift'erent physiological properties, especially in respect to their reflex action. The reflex actions which are exhibited by the movements of the eye or pupil may have their source in any part of the sensitive nervous system. "When a sensitive nerve is pinched, in any region of the body, there arises a reflex movement in both eyes at the same time, exhibited by a sudden enlargement of the eyelids and a dilatation of the pupil. ■ This is efi'ected through the spinal cord and the above- mentioned spinal nerves. If the roots of the first and second and sometimes the third dorsal nerves are divided on both sides, the action is wholly prevented ; if on one side, it takes place onlj on that on which the nerves are left intact, on whichever side the irritation ia applied. Thus the reflex action of the oculo-pupillary nerves is general and crossed. On the other hand, the reflex operation of the vaso-motor nerves ia not crossed, and is limited, as regards their excitation, to the particular region supplied by the nerve. An irritation of the auricjalar nerve produces vascularity only on the corresponding side, although this same irritation induces reflex movements in both eyes at once. I'rom these difl'erences between the oculo-pupillary and the vascular reflex actions, may we not infer that the former—those which are general—have their centre of reflection in the spinal cord, while the others, which are local and more cii'cumscribed, have their centre in the sympathetic ganglia ? Bernard is of opinion that the greater part of the errors which are introduced into the history of the vascular and calorific nerves of the great sympathetic are due to a confounding of direct and reflex vascular phenomena. Vigouroux has found that every well-pronounced movement of inspi- ration or of expiration coincides with a dilatation of the pupil. Besides these, however, every energetic muscular contraction, aa of the arm or leg, seems to have the same effect, although it may be due, he thinks, in the latter case, to the influence of those movements upon the respiration. The dilatation of the pupil amounts to about one third or one fifth of its diameter. This movement would appear to indicate that every time a centrifugal nervous current passes along the spinal cord, a portion of it is diverted into the first and second dorsal nerves. Among the muscles of the orbit, and those supplied by the fifth and seveutii nerve, the con- traction of the internal rectus alone ia accompanied by a dilatation of the pupil. This difl'erence, without doubt, depends on the third nerve32 nKPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY, ulone haviug coiniectiou with tlie oculo-pupilluiy region. The dilata- tion of the pupil which C. Bernard has found to accompany every pain- ful impression may probably be, not a direct reflex eflecfof'the pain, but a result of the motions, respiratory or other, excited by it. Phillippeaux and Vulpiau divided the lingual (sensitive) and hypoglossal (motor) nerve of the tongue, on the same side, in dogs, and connected the central end of the former by a suture with the peripheral end of the latter. A considerable portion of the unused cud of each was removed. The experiments were several times rejjeated, and gave always the same result. The (peripheric) end of the hypo- glossal became regenerated very rapidly (far advanced in two months, almost complete in four) ; and after this time its functions could be brought into play by irritation of the portion of the lingual to which it was joined. To avoid error, mechanical irritation was employed to excite it, as well as galvanism. The lingual Avas cnt as high as possible, and pinched by a forceps; on each irritation there followed a strong and extensive movement of the corresponding half of the tongue. The authors draw the following conclusions:—(i) Sensitive nervous fibres may unite intimately, end to end, to motor fibres, and transmit to them the regenerative influence of the nervous centre. (3) Where this union is complete, irritation of the sensitive fibres is transmitted to the motor fibres, and through them determines muscular contraction. It is probable that, in like manner, irritation of peripheric motor fibres, united intimately, end to end, with central sensitive fibres, is transmitted to these latter, and produces pain. (3) These experiments lead us to think that, in the normal state, irritation, produced at any point what- ever in the course of a sensitive nerve, is propagated at the same instant both centripetally and centrifugally ; and it is probably the same with irritation of a motor nerve. Of course, in the animals thus experimented on, the function of the motor nerve remained abolished, though its action could be excited. "When the hypoglossal of the opposite side was also cut, the dog was quite unable to move its tongue. [MINI. Gluge and Thiernesso, whose results MM. Phillippeaux and Vulpiau call in question, repeat their former statement, that the sensory fibres are never rendered capable of conveying motor influence, and vice versa. See 'Bulletin de I'Acad. Boy. de Belgique,' No. 7, 1863, p. 65.] Prom the increase of reflex excitability which occurs in the frog when its head is removed, it has been inferred tliat there exist in its brain distinct nervous centres, which serve as moderators of reflex movement. ISetcbenow examined whether any direct evidence could be obtained of the existence of organs exercising such a function. For this purpose he divided the brain at difl^'erent points ; irritated its various parts by electricity or chemical agents, and finally excited it through the physiological channels. Por the production of the reflex movements he plunged the frog's claw into a solution of sea salt. The results he arrived at were, that there exists in the brain a special moderating mechanism, and that it is situated in the optic lobes.EEPOET ON PMCTIC/VL MEDICINE AND PATHOLOGY. BY C. HANDriELD JONES, M.B. Cantab., E.E.S., PHYSICIAN TO ST. MARY's HOSPITAL. GENERAL PATHOLOGY. Tdener, W., M.B.—On the present aspect of the doctrine of Cellular Patholoffij. Edin. Med. Jouru., April, 1863. Turner, adopting the above doctrine, adduces at some length details of its correctness in the case of the inflammatory changes occurring in the connective tissue in the cornea, in cartilage, bone, muscles, nerves, mucous membranes, serous membranes, skin, secreting glands, and in cancer and tubercle. He cites a case from bis own observation, where the increase and growth of a cancer in a muscle depended evidently on multiplication of the nuclei belonging to the original fibres. In an inflamed pleura he traces also similar changes occurring in the subepithelial connective tissue corpuscles. The paper is suited for reference, but not for analysis. Chambers, T. K.—Lumleian Lectures on the formation of Mucus and Vus. Lancet, Aug. 8th, 15th, 22nd. Chambers describes the lowermost corjjuscles of epidermis, those resting on the surface of the cutis, as granular masses " identical with those seen in mucus." So when the superficial layer of epithelium is detached from mucous membranes, "there are brought into view floating granular masses of various sizes, which constitute what are familiarly known as raucous globules." They are exactly identical with those of the rete nuicosum of the skin. These mucous globules Chambers thinks have the faculty of giving birth to an individual, and so to a succession of indi- viduals, like itself. If we watch one nuclear mass we may often see a gradual change in its appearance. First a clearer nucleus appears in it, then two, three, or more smaller nuclei. Then the fine granular specks in its sides coalesce into a nucleus. Then a nucleus bulges and buds out from its side, and gets a constricted neck, which gives way, and the bud floats off as a separate globule. Or the whole globule may divide into two, 3UEPORT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. 34< each witli a separate nucleus. Chambers thinks that each of the globules contains a centre of life, into which the pabulum passes from the outside, nourishing them and giving them means to increase in number. This increase of low quasi-parasitic life Chambers regards as an indication of lowered vitality. From the circumstance that mucous globules are tinged by solution of carmine throughout their whole substance, while the liquor muci in which they float is less stained, the lecturer draws the con- clusion that it is to be regarded as the formed substance of which the globules arc the nuclei, the parts which alone are capable of growth. Now if the mucin, or transparent medium in which the globules and granules float, stand in the place of fully-formed organic substance or cell, it will not retrograde into the condition of growing substance. Such a retro- gression does not happen in cells. In an epithelial scale, for instance, the transparent area does not become nucleus matter; But it transmits the nutriment to the nucleus inwards through its substance without being destroyed. On this supposition the formation of mucin will be the high- est development of the life of the globule, for it answers to the formation of tissue from nuclear matter. And in that case we should expect to find that the nearer its normal condition the morbid secretion can be collected, the more of this higher state of Ufe it would exhibit, and that the further from its normal condition it is, the less there would be of the formed matter. Such is the fact. Tne fluid which first forms on an inflamed surface contains few globules, and much stringy transparent medium. Its nuclear matter has so far departed from life, that it cannot form separate cells, but only an imperfect common area. But as the inflammation goes on, this power is still more and more lost; the nuclear matter cannot form the mucin, it can only multiply; and hence the stringiness of the mucus disappears, and it becomes what we know by the name of pus. As far as the morbid matter itself is concerned, pus indicates in it a further de- ficiency of vitality than mucus—a deficiency of vitality shown for it in its internal self-multiplication, and secondly in its non-production of mucin. From observations of Sanderson, Buhl, and Remak, Ciiambers draws the conclusion that pus corpuscles are not so much descendants of epithelial cells as what may be called parasitic formations within them. They are parasites inside the epithelial cells, capable of increase by propagation within the tissue, just as on the surface the mucous globules were shown as parasites capable of increase by propagation without the tissue. And they grow quite independent of the true nucleus of the cell, and not derived from it. Thus the nuclear material may pass through the sub- stance of the epithelial coat of mucous membrane without destroying it, and not only be itself unaltered, but may increase in quantity during the progress. This is one way in which the pus-material may reach the surface, and explains those cases in which the epithelium is quite unin- jured. The transit of one apparently solid body through another equally so Chambers explains by considering them both as gelatinous. He also admits after Henle that pus and mucus corpuscles may be developed from plasma beneath the epithelial layer, and may make their w'ay to the surface by disruption of the latter. As to the early condition of pus Chambers speculates as follows : " the same elementary substance which appears in integumentary tissues as the common material of the variousGENEUAL PATHOLOGY. 35 kinds of epithelium, appears also as granular nuclei in other tissues, iu tlie ganglia of nerves, in the brain, in the parenchyma of the liver, in the spleen, thyroid and thymus. The same bodies occur in the blood, where they have been termed chyle corpuscles and white cells. They are found in largest quantities in the most recently formed, most quickly growing, and most actively renewed component parts of the animal frame. In short, the most rational interpretation of this form of organic matter is that which represents it as the common material of all tissues in its earliest state of elementary life. And as that which was to have formed epithelium is cast off as the basis of the mucns and pus globule, so that which was to have formed hepatic-parenchyma, nerve, or areolar tissue becomes pus, through some unsuspected transitional stage." The last lecture is taken up chiefly with tlierapeutical considerations and sugges- tions, such as the beneficial effect of a layer of muco-pus or inflamed surfaces as a protection against oxygen and cold, the injurious action of over much cool fresh air on weakly hospital patients, the good results of carbonic acid supplied to mucous membranes and ulcers, &c. TiiAUBE.—Researches on febrile affections. Med. T. and Gaz., August i. Traube seeks to determine the cause of the increase of temperature, which is the very essence of fever, and of which the increased rate of pulsation and respiration are only the consequences. The increase, he thinks, is due to a stronger contraction of the contractile fibre cells of the blood-vessels, and chiefly of those of the smallest arteries. Owing to the contraction of these minute vessels, less blood is carried to the capillaries in a given space of time, and the pressure on their internal surface is also dimiuished. The cooling of the blood is therefore retarded, and at the same time there is less absorption of liquor sanguinis by the tissues. Less water being carried to the superficial strata of the skin and lungs, evaporation from these surfaces is of course diminished, and thus another cause for a lesser cooling of the body is put into play. By this hypothesis all and every symptom of fever may be easily explained. Thus we find that during the rigor, tlie turgor of the skin and of the subcutaneous cellular tissue is dimiuished, the small arteries which are accessible to examination are contracted, the hands, the feet, and the nose are cooler than usual, while the temperature of the blood itself is increased. The cause of the contraction of tlie arteries Traube considers to be the great excitement of the vasomotor nerves occasioned by the amount of the fever poison in the blood. It has been shown by the researches of V. Baren- sprung that the heat is already increased before the rigor sets in, but that it increases much more rapidly during than before the rigor. This may be explained by the circumstance that any poison acts the more intensely upon nervous matter the larger the quantity of it that is accumulated in the blood, and its accumulation in the blood necessarily depends upon the degree of activity in the organs of secretion by which it is eliminated. In the commencement of the febrile paroxysm, tlie quantity of the fever poison in the blood is so small that only a slight contraction of the arteries is thereby caused. The immediate consequence of this latter, however, is a diminished activity of the organs of secretion. At the time the rigor sets in the quantity of the fever poison iu the blood is so con-«5i3 iiEPoiiT ON phactical medicine. siderable that it may exert its full effect upon tlie vasomotor system of Jierves, and the maximum of contraction of the blood-vessels is thus pro- duced. If this maximum has been attained, tiie temperature of the blood must necessarily be rapidly increased, as the cooling of the body is nearly reduced to its minimum. Striking rigors are only observed if there is a sudden increase of heat, as in ordinary pneumonia ; wliile in such acute diseases where the temperature is slowly augmented, as in typhoid fever, these are only shiverings. Thirst, anorexia, weak digestion, and consti- pation, Traube explains in the same way, viz., Jjy assuming a contraction of the minute arteries, and a deficient supply of blood to the mucous membrane. Beale, Lionel, M.B., F.R.S.— Observations on the nature of certain healthy and morbid changes, and on counter-irritation, Brit. Med. J., Feb. 21, 28. Beale argues in opposition to Chambers, that the idea of counter- irritation clearly is, not to establish one disease for another, but to increase the action of one or more tissues, with the view of reducing the increased action which is already going on in other and more important tissues or organs. He thinks that counter-irritation by a blister in a case of chronic bronchial catarrh may act beneficially in two ways. First, by exciting through the afferent nerves in the skin an impression by which the afferent nerves distributed to the vessels of the mucous membrane are caused to contract, and thus a diminution in the supply of blood results; the direct consequence of this diminished supply of pabulum being a slower multiplication of the pus, and imperfectly formed epithelial cells. In consequence of the increased flow of blood to the skin, the young cells of the cuticle grow and multiply at the expense of the pabu- lum, which would otherwise have gone to feed the structures formed on the surface of the mucous membrane. Secondly, such an increased action being established in the deep layers of the epidermis, crude materials in the blood, which would otherwise have been taken up by the pus on the mucous membrane are appropriated here. Beale, Lionel, M.B., F.R.S.—Brit. Med. J., Oct. 20. Ar"-ues that in very severe cases of inflammatory disease the administration of very large quantities of alcohol does good, not by exciting or stimulating to increased action, but by moderating actions already excessive. Alcohol docs not act as a food, but it diminishes the rate at which vital changes are proceeding, by causing cells which were living too fast to live more slowly, and by producing the death of many. When absorbed by the blood it renders the albuminous matters less fluid, reduces their permeating pro- perty, and interferes with the disintegration of blood corpuscles. ScHOTT —On Calcareous Metastasis. Wochenbl. Ztsclir. d. k. k. Gesellsch. d. Aerzte in Wien, Oct. 15th, 1862 ; Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan. 1863. . Schott describes the case of a child 1-Jr year old, who died m consequence of being run over, four days after the'accident. On examination of the body besides extravasation of blood into the abdominal cavity, the vertebra;37 GENJiUAL SYSTEM. were found injured, and tliere was suppurative spinal meningitis. The small intestines were very fragile, their follicles swollen, their mucous membrane, as well as that of the ascending colon, roughened as if witli sand on its surface. After cleansing the mucous membrane it was seen to be covered here and there with white roundish scales of about the size of poppy seeds, which followed the course of the minute vessels. On microscopical examination of these scales with the aid of acid, they were found to be made up of calcareous molecules deposited on tlie surface of the mucous membrane and alogg the vessels, the glands remaining free. Schott cites Virchow's statement that, in all the six cases observed by him, important changes had taken place in the kidneys, and that these altera- tions ought to be looked upon as of great importance with reference to the calcareous deposition, seeing that in obstructed excretion of calcareous salts by the kidneys, the deposition of these salts must occur. Tlie author ohserves that, in most cases of calcareous deposit, a disease of the bone existed, and that among the cases of Virchow, only one exists in which no source for the calcareous salts was to be found; whilst in his own case, though there was certainly disease of bone, yet it was of very short standing, and, moreover, no disease of the kidneys existed ; con- sequentlj', an essential cause for the calcareous deposit was absent. He also notices the fact that, in most of the cases of calcareous metastasis reported, the lungs more frequently than the stomach or bones were the seat of the deposit. GENERAL SYSTEM. LATHAsr, P. M.—General reviarks on the practice of medicine. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 3, 10, 17, 24. In Jan. 17th No., Latham records two cases of extreme frequency and rapidity of pulse, which came on suddenly, in the first to all appear- ance as the result of puerperal fever poison, a rigor having preceded forty- eight hours. Death ensued in about twenty-four hours, without the fever having developed itself. In the second, a lady, set. 40, was suddenly attacked with death-like prostration, which continued for five days and nights. Stimulants were freely administered the whole time, and kept the heart from quite stopping. At last, reaction began to appear, scar- latina eruption showed itself, the disease ran a favorable course, and tiie patient recovered. Latham remarks that such cases prove the true significance of the frequent pulse, viz., that it is a sign and a measure of the degree in which life, and the powers of life, are affected and fail. lie goes on to mention the following curious circumstance which, he says, he has often observed. The nervous system having reached the degree of collapse indexed by the countless fluttering pulse, carries with it the pathological consequence of suspending for the time the course of the disease. Whatever be the disease which it attends, whether scarlatina, or measles, or erysipelas, or small-pox, or whatever be the stage it has reached, at that stage it will stop, and all specific morbid actions come to a stand- still ; perhaps to be resumed, perhaps not. The first, if the nervous system rally and recover ; the second, if the pulse goes on fluttering, though many days have yet to pass before the nervous system has collap.scd into death. When the all-subduing constraint of the nervous88 HEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. system is taken off, the disease takes up its course again from the stage at which it was arrested. In June 24th No., Latham sets forth liow a healtliy and strong system can bear an inflamrualion without (as evidenced by the pulse) being vitally hurt by it. The pulse, though it becomes characteristically hard, yet is but moderately quickened, or may not be at nil. In states of cachexy and weakness, this is reversed—the system feels the disease severely, and bears it ill. Similarly with regard to depressing remedies—in the one case they are well borne and do good, in the second they are injurio\is. ^ Duchesne Dupakc. J. de Med. and de Chir. pratiq., vol. 34, p. 78. Duchesne Duparc records the case of a baker who had got so fat that he could no longer go out of his house. He was reduced 3.3 lbs. by 400 pills of extract of " fucus vesiculosus," taken at the rate of four to ten dailj', without any unpleasant symptoms. Another case (v. he. citat.) is recorded by M. Kuhn, where a man who had a very large accumulation of fat in his abdomen, and suffered with great dyspnoea and inability to exert himself, was quite cleared in about two months by the same remedy. Oliver, W. S., M.D. Lancet, Jan. 17. Oliver insists that preserved milk, meats, vegetables, pickles, and lime juice have no efficacy whatever as anti-scorbutics, grounding this state- ment on " extensive inquiry and practical experience." Salt meat causes scurvy, from having all its protein materials dissolved out and removed in the brine. The albuminous substances of preserved meats and vegetables are rendered totally inert by the protracted boiling to which they are subjected. Canadian backwoodsmen tind raw potatoes an infallible cure for scurvy, which comes on when they subsist on salt pork, boiled potatoes, and biscuits. FoRSTER, K. — Report on Typhus. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 117, pp. 89 —130. This report comprises the literature of the subject from i8j8 to the middle of 1862. Section (a) treats of the connection existing be- tween the principal forms. Schnepp ('L'Uniou,' 118—128, 1861) believes, from his observation of disease in Egypt, that one of the diiierent forms of typhus, under certain circumstances, can change into another, and that different forms of typhus may be produced by the same infection, accord- ing to variation of climate and race. Cazalas ('L'Union,' 144,155, 1S61) observed fever at Constantinople, and in the Italian war, and describes the typhoid or abdominal, and the typhus or exanthcmatic, as the two prin- cipal species. He does not, however, think that they can be distinguished at the bed-side, nor after death, and states that their symptoms, cause, periods, duration, terminations, and morbid anatomy are identical, and that they require the same prophylaxis and treatment. He thinks that there are also numerous typhous affections which have the same origin, but run a different course. Smoler ('Memorabil.,' vii, 1862), and Skoda ('AUg. "Wien. Med. Ztg.,' vi, 1861), both maintain the identity of typhoid and typhus. Uhle, from experience of fever in Dorpat.is led to adopt the contrary views. Schnepp finds that gastric and bilious fevers in Egypt easily change, on the one hand, into remittents; on the other, into contj-39 GENEEAL SYSTEJF. micd typhus. From his description it seems ns if malarious fever ap- penrcd'in the way of an interlude during the course of a typhus. Of 589 cafCS reckoned as typhus, which Cazalas treated during the Crimean war, 444 were affected willi scurvy. In these the disease developed itself most rapidly, so tlint in 1—2 days tlie typhus condition was fully formed, stu- por constituting the only pathognomonic and constant sign. Often, espe- cially in very cachectic individuals, extreme collapse occurred early, which tcrniinated sometimes in an acute rapidly fatal meningitis, or, in other instances in enteric fever^ Sometimes, but much more rarely, and only in strong persons the disease began with the ordinary symptoms of a cere- bral, or cerebro-spinal meningitis. In non-scorbutic persons typhus began at first almost always with rigors and fever, which occurred intermit- tently, then the disease assumed more the remittent character, and, finally, appeared as actual typhus. Out of 31 patients dying of tj'phus (abdo- minal and exanthematic) Cazalas found in 31 Peyer's patches swollen, honey-combed, reticulated, ulcerated, perforated, or in progress of cicatri- zation. Lebert ('Virch. Arch.,' xiii, 1858) observed in three years at Zurich, among 663 typhus patients 503 cases of abdominal typhus and t6i of abortive typhus. The latter affection is prone to recur, and affords no protection against the abdominal form. The two disorders appear to altej-nate, one receding as the other prevails extensively. The abortive may pass into the abdominal form. Botli have much in common in their causes, and prevail in the same houses. Section b, on iEtiology. — Ebers ('Gunsburg's Ztschr.,' ix, 1858) observed an epidemic of abdominal and exanthematic typhus at Breslau, in wliich more than 1640 cases were taken into the hospital. The abdo- minal form had been epidemic for eight years before exanthematic fever broke out. During this time there had been bad harvests of the cereal and potato crops, provisions had been dear, and misery had been preva- lent. Brand puts down night-watching, over-exertion of mind and body, as causes of typhus. At Stettin, the disease was most prevalent in a dirty, damp, ill-drained part of the town, where filthy water was most commonly used for drinking. Sraoler noticed removal from the country to the town as the most constant cause of sporadic fever, and ascribes its effect to the bad sanitary arrangements of large cities. He observed at Prague that all the typhus cases came from recently inundated districts. Lebert's experience agrees very closely with Brand's. This author regards abdo- minal as nearly as infectious as exanthematic typhus,'and thinks that infec- tion commonly results from other persons using the same privy into which the dejecta of the sick have been thrown. A case is cited where all the members of a family sickened, except one, who had used a different privy. He states that the gaseous emanations of fecal matter, unless mingled with the typhous contagion, do not cause infection ; but that the solid compo- nents do when they are taken into the body either in drinking water, or in any other, and this whether they proceed from a typhus patient, or not. He describes several cases in which a great number of persons sickened, who bad drank water contaminated by sewerage. Kerscliensteiner (' Bayer. Aerztl. Intell. Bl.,' 17, 1859) believes that typhus is commonly propa- gated by infection, and relates a striking example of tbis in a country vil- lage, where the disease spread from one stranger to those in the sameJllil'OllT ON PllACTICAL MKDICINK. 40 house, r.nd then to those wlio came in contact with them, until eighteen persons were nflected. Smolcr relates a case where fever to ail appcarAnce originated independently of any infection. The death rate lias varied from II or 12 per cent, to 25 per cent. According to Leijert the mortality from typhus has heen least (relatively) when it has been least prevalent, Fiedler ('Arch. d. Ileillc.,' iii, 2, 1862) observed the reverse, liuhl and Qtiiquerez ('(Esterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. lleilic, vii, 32, 1861) agree in tlie ob.servation that the occurrence of the greater number of deaths in the early period of typhus is a sign that the disease is on the increase; and, on tiie other hand, that the transfer of the chief mortality to the later period indi- cates that the epidemic is declining. As regards the influence of the season of the year, Ulrich, Lebert, and Fiedler agree pretty nearly that fever is least prevalent in February, April, and May, and most in August, September, and October. Fiedler states that at Dresden fever prevailed as much in the two last months of the year as in October, which was not the case at Zurich or .Berlin. Tlie mortality is not proportionate to the frequency of the dis- ease, mostly inverse. The influence of sex shows itself in the greater fre- quency of fever among males, the number of male patients being in one year thrice that of females: this, however, is not constant, the number being sometimes more numerous. Lebert, Ulrich, and Fiedler agree that the mortality is generally somewhat greater among females than among males, though in some years the reverse is the case. As to age, Lebert reports that the greatest number of cases occurred from 21st to 2 5th year, the next greatest from the 26th to 30th, and the next between the 16th and 20th. The number of attacks after 40 was far greater at Zurich than at Paris. One case occuiTed between the 71st and yjth years. As to the influence of age upon mortality Ulrich states that the greatest absolute though the smallest relative mortality occurred between 40 and 50. Lebert found the smallest relative mortality to occur in the period from 22 to 25, which exhibited the greatest frequency of disease. After 40 the mortality was nearly i in 3 of all cases, between 16 and 40 it ■was I in 5. Fiedler observed great diftereuces between years immediately succeeding each other as to the mortality. The highest absolute mor- tality was in tlie 24th year of life (20 per cent.), in the 25th it was only 2'6 per cent., in the 28th it was ig'6, in the 22nd i2'3. In childhood the absolute and relative mortality was small, in advanced life it was absolutely small, but relatively high. The influence of social position does not appear to he marked. (c) Si/mj^toms, complications,—Ebers remarks that in some instances the invasion of the disorder is marked by a peculiar morbid sensation, ■which is followed by several days of apparent health before the disease actually commences. Rlieumatoid pains, depression, occasional angina, and hypersesthesia of [the surface are noticed by several as the earliest symptoms. Ebers remarks of the exanthematic fever at Breslau that the excessive elevation of the temperature, audits permanency, were a kind of Iiarometer of the danger of the disease. Rapid fall of the temperature was almost always a sign of failing vital power. Lebert found the rate of (he pulse generally to accord with the temperature ; when the Litter fell below the normal figure, the pulse declined to 52 or 56. Great frequency of a dicrotous pulse usually coincided with great elevation of temperature.GENERAL SYSTEM. 41 During convalescence, wlicn the patients first began to leave their beds their great weakness caused great acceleration of the pulse, without increase of temperature. Tlie respiration rate did not follow that of the pulse. At Creslau the sensorium remained in not a few Instances undisturbed almost to the time of death: Tetanic rigidity was one of the worst signs ; sleep- lessness, when constant, coma and sopor, were more ominous than persis- tent delirium. Skoda does not think the diarrhcea in fever is dependent on the intestinal affection, since the latter may exist without any diarrhoea ; and diarrhoea is often present without any anatomical lesion. Pain in the ileo-coscal region was scarcely ever observed by Ebers ; the abdomen was distended and soft. Splenic enlargement was not constant. Lebert ob- served roseolous eruption in all his male patients, but only in about two C.rtlis of the female, and in these never to the same extent as in the males, in whom it was so extensive as to resemble the eruption of exantliematic fever. Ulrich states that roseola was seldom absent in marked forms of abdominal fever, and often continued very marked up to the fourth or fifih week, the eruption recurring with relapses. Smoler and Skoda are at issue as to whether an eruption like typhous roseola is met with in any other disease. Gillhuber (' Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk.,' vii, 1861) ob- served at Vienna a maculous eruption only onee ; in half of the cases it was papular. Ebers states that copious fetid-sourish-smelling perspirations in the second stage of exanthematic typhus were mostly a fatal sign. Roser ('Memorab.,' iv, 4, 1859) describes a peculiar alteration of the skin which lie observed in eight cases of typhus, and in these only. They were all severe, and one proved fatal. The alteration consisted in a sort of splitting of the skin at the lower anterior part of the thigh and the lower posterior part of the upper arm. This splitting formed a number of transverse streaks, about as long as a finger, broadest in the middle, and tapering in a wavy manner to the two ends. The skin in these parts was elevated a little, and of a bluish tint, much resembling a vesicle, but not pitting on pressure. The change was gradually produced in the course of some days, and disappeared much more slowly, by the end of six months. Roser beheves that the fissuring of the skin depended on the stretching occa- sioned by the flexion of the knee and elbow-joints, while its texture was weakened by the impaired nutrition. In one case, alluded to by Forster, the streaks more than half surrounded the very emaciated limbs. Para- lysis of the lower limbs and oedema of the feet occurred in two instances during convalescence. Roser ('Memorab.,' v, 3, i860) dwells on the danger which an attack of typhus involves to very fat persons. The pulse becomes extremely quick and, if the heart's tissue is degenerated, very small. The persistence and increase of the frequency of the pulse, without a corresponding increase of the other symptoms, is characteristic of fatty accumulation in the chest, and fatty degeneration of the heart. From fail ure of the circulation, the extremities become cold at an early pei'iod of the fever, and at a time when no vital organ appears to be dangerously affected. Skoda points out various signs (flagging of the circulation in the extremities, cyanosis, smallness of the pulse, dulness or vanishing of the heart's sounds, or murmurs) as probable signs of the formation of coagula in the cavities of the heart. Vogt ('Schweiz. Mon. Schr.,'v, p. 33, i860) states that the chief peculiarities of typhus urine, as com-42 BEPORT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINE. parcel with tlint of otlicr febrile disenses, ns pneumonia, nre its containing albumen and sugar, althougli tiiese are not constantly present. Tiie amount of albumen sceniP, on the whole, to vary with tlie degree of fever, increasing with the disease and declining also along with it. In cases where general dropsy occurred during the last period of the disease, or during convalescence, albumen was no longer found in the urine, l.eljert denies that the albuminuria stands in any connection with the intensity of the fever, and has noticed its occurrence not uncommonly in abortive typhus. Vogt agrees with Brattler that albuminuria in typlius and other fevers is generally rather the result of the febrile condition itself than of a nephritic complication. Schwartz ('Rigaor Beitriig.,'iv, 1859) distinguishes two forms of grave renal inflammation occurring in the course of tvplius. In one there is pyelitis and nephritis, with small, indistinct abscesses in the renal parenchyma, resulting from retention and reflux of the urine. It usually ends fatally, with comatose symptoms. The urine contains dur- ing life pus, albumen, and often blood. The pelvis of the kidney is found dilated. The second form results from renal hypersemia, induced by the fever itself, and issues in the changes characteristic of morbus Brightii (acute desquamative nephritis). The urine contains albumen, and often blood, but no pus. Dropsj', on the whole, but rarely ensues. The two forms may be blended together. Smoler draws attention to the remark- able absence of oxalate of lime in typhus urine, and proposes it as a means of diagnosis between typhus on the one hand and ague or acute miliary tuberculosis on the other. Lehmanu and Volk ('Wien. Med. Wchnschr.,' viii, 1858) find no constant proportion between the increase of the urea and the decrease of the Cl.Na. on the one hand and the intensity and peril of the disorder on the other. Vogt opposes Franke's view, that the absence of chlorides in the urine in typhus and other fevers depends only upon the loss of appetite and the non-ingestion of aliment. He finds that they appear in the urine as soon as the disease has begun to decline, and thinks that their absence is the result of grave derangement of the assimilating processes. Ulrich ('Deutsche Klinik,' xxiii, 1859) and Lebert both report the occurrence of epistaxis in some severe cases of typhus. The former observed eight cases where the haemorrhage occurred towards the beginning of the second week; plugging of the anterior and posterior nares was requisite in all; but in spite of this, six of them died speedily from exhaustion. There is much risk that, on account of the patient's apathy and his supine position, most of the blood gets swal- lowed, and attention is not drawn to the existence of the hremor- rhage until collapse rapidly ensues. Vogt mentions a case of inter- meningeal, and lllrich one of post-peritoneal, hoemorrhage, behind the ascending colon. Lebert records a case of chronic dysentery succeeding typhus, which produced a i-ecto-vaginal fistula, and was attended with peri- tonitis and fatty slate of the liver. Two cases of peritonitis from intes- tinal perforation are given, the results of which go to show that perfora- tion is by no means always fatal. Ulrich found inflammatory lung .nfTcc- tions to hold the first place among the complications of typhus; they never appeared before the third, often in the fourth or fifth week, and not uncommonly caused death even when convalescence had commenced. Lebert, pnrticularlj* at one period, met with numerous cases of severeGENERAL SYSTEM. 43 bronchitis, often terminating fatally, and presenting after death extensive lobular carnificatiou. Among 418 cases of typhus, Ulrich had six of ery- sipelas of the face, coming on about the third week ; all but one ended fatally. Otitis in one year was frequent among Lebert's cases, but all recovered. Parotitis, in Ulrich's experience, was a much less ominous occurrence than it has often been regarded. In many epidemics all, or nearly all, those thus affected have ctied ; but of six "cases which Ulrich had, and which proceeded to suppuration, only one ended fatally, and this was "from the exhaustion induced by other purulent depots in different parts of the body. Sander also had four recoveries out of six cases. Gigon (' L'Union,' ji^, 117, 1861) records a case of considerable parotid swelling, with ex- tensive sloughing and death, in a boy aged twelve months. Lebert reports a case of noma (gangrene of the mouth) occurring in a boy aged 10, and ending favorably. Smoler observed in some instances that bed-sores formed upon an eruption of ecthymatous pustules, or the resulting ulcers. Laryngeal ulceration and necrosis are often latent until oedema of the glottis suddenly appears and brings life into extreme peril. Sestier found in eighteen typhus convalescents thus attacked necrosis of the larynx in twelve, and Emmet in thirty similar cases found laryngeal ulceration iu twenty-three. Charcot and Dechambre ('Gaz. des Ilopit.,' 1859, 100) describe the typhous ulcer as seated on the posterior wall of the larynx, where the mucous membrane covers the arytenoid muscles. At first there fire one or more diphtheritic patches, which are succeeded by ulcera- tions of various depth. The arytenoid and even the cricoid cartilages become exposed and detached, and abscesses are often formed. The affec- tion may appear in the second or third week, but usually coincides with the last stage of the disease, or even with convalescence. Unless abscesses form, the symptoms may be very slight. The disease not uncommonly becomes chronic, and passes into laryngeal phthisis.- Baudot ('L'Uuion,' 8,3, 1859) records a case where a female, three months after an attack of typhus, was suddenly attacked with laryngeal symptoms, which continued six or seven months longer, when she brought up, after a severe paroxysm of suffocation, two cartilaginous sequestra. In three or four months she recovered completely, with the exception of some alteration of voice, which was rather rough, gutteral, and deep. Several cases of embolia, throm- bosis, and gangrene of the limbs, during and after typhus, are recorded. In one the posterior tibial artery was affected ; in the others, different veins. Eelapses (complete) were observed by Sander (' Deutsche Klinik,' 7, i86i) only twice among 301 cases of typhus. Buhl (' Bayer. Aerztl. Intel. Bl,,' 5, 1861) found, among 500 autopsies of typhus, traces of relapse in 15, or in 3 per cent. During the prevalence of an epidemic the relapses were 5 per cent.; at other times, 2 per cent. In the hospital at Leipzig 40 relapses occurred among 548 typhus patients, i. e. 6-5 per cent. ; or, if the deaths are omitted, the ratio is 8 per cent. In some years the proportion of relapses (omitting deaths) fell to 4-4 per cent., and in others rose to 14-3 per cent. Human states of these cases that relapses occurred more frequently after typhus than after any other dis- ease. He observed their commencement at all periods, from three to seven weeks after the beginning of the original disease. More than one third, however, occurred at the beginning of the fifth week. Buhl's ex-IIEI'OIIT ON I'JtACTICAL MEDICINIi. perieace is nearly the same. Michel ('L'Union,' 10.3, 1.33, 1.37, 139, 1859) finds Hint, generally, the relapse is of much shorter duration than the original disease, the average diU'erence beinp; about eleven day*. Occa- sionally, however, the reverse is the case. Human traces the occurrence of relapses to the continued action of the original causes rather than (0 a fresh infection, because in the very year when typhus was most prevalent the number of relapses was smallest, and because fifteen out of thirty-six relapses had occurred before the fever had quite ceased. The degree of severity of the original disorder does not seem to influence materially the occurrence of relapses. From July to September they were less frequent than at other times. Females were afleeted twice as often as males. No age was exempt, but the twentieth year seemed most liable. Michel states the greatest number to occur between fifteen and twenty-five years of age. A roseolous ernplion, mingled with petechioe, usually appears at tlie com- mencement of relapse; sometimes later. It is sometimes more copious than in the primary fever. Sudden death, with cerebral symptoms, occa- sionally occurs in relapses. Abortive typhus, according to Lebert, closely resembles abdominal typhus at the outset, but its symptoms are less severe; the termination is always favorable, and the duration of the disease shorter. In more than half the cases convalescence commenced in the course of the second week. Of 161 cases, only four passed into abdominal typhus. The disease is not infrequent in children, and in them generally runs a more favorable course than in adults. Increase of the bronchial catarrh to dangerous bronchitis sometimes occurs, and during convalescence croupous exudation in the mouth and throat, and follicular enteritis. Langenbeck ('J. f. Kinderkrankh,,' xxxvi, 1861) notices especially the liability of the mesenteric glands to become con- siderably swollen and infiltrated, even when there is not much morbid change in the intesthie; and he believes that they do not always return to their normal size, but, especially in scrofulous children, become tuber- culous or atrophied, and give rise to long-enduring disorder of nutrition, and to chronic marasmus. The period of approaching puberty in the female sex, especially when there is a tendency to chlorosis, presents exceptions to the usually favorable course of typhus in children. The disease often sets in with violent symptoms, is very irregular in its course, presents manifold nervous phenomena, and may terminate either in a sudden collapse or in a long-protracted convalescence. In children between one and two years old typhus often begins with convulsions or other cerebral symptoms. With regard to exanthematic typhus, Lan- genbeck remarks that in some epidemics children escape almost entirely, while in others the reverse is the case. The symptoms seem to be much the same as in adults, but milder, and convalescence ensues earlier.— Pathological Anatomy.—Buhl (' H. u. Pf. Ztschr.,' ,3 R. iv), distinguishes, on pathological grounds, two periods of typhus, as well as the disease itself and its secondary processes. The first period comprises the en- largement of the mesenteric glands and those of the ileum, and extends always over just three weeks. The length of the second is indeterminate ; in the most favorable cases it corresponds to convalescence. In it occur various secondary phenomena, such as inflammation, embolism, softening, gangrene, and wasting. When relapses take place, a fresh crop of erup-GENEllAL SYSTEM. 45 tion occurs in tlie intestine, recent deposits and swelling being found at the margins of old ulcers. In children, according to Langenbeck, the changes °in the intestine are rarely so marked as in adults, much less ulceration occurs, and, indeed, in most cases the swelling of the glands subsides without any. Lebert records a case in which new villi were developed on the cicatrices of the intestinal ulcers. The patient was^ aged 20, and had lived six months after the commencement of the fever. Ebers, in 28 5 fatal cases of exanthematous typhus, found thirty, in various stages of the disease in which the spleen appeared quite normal; it was rarely much enlarged. Buhl states that the liver in typhus becomes larger and more full of blood, and the cells filled with fine granules. In the severer forms of the disease its condition approaches that of yellow atrophy. In the later periods fatty degeneration is not uncommon. Lebert and Ebcrs' experience is to the same effect. The kidneys are overfull of blood and enlarged ; their epithelium readily separates from the basement membrane, and decays. Ebers i-eports six cases of gangrene of the lungs among 1640 patients. Buhl has made some interesting inquiries with respect to the amount of water contained in the cerebral substance at different periods of typhus. He finds that in the first three weeks of typhus the watery constituent is regularly increased about 5'98 per cent.; that this increase is most con- siderable at the end of the first two weeks, and gradually diminishes again in the third; and that after the termination of the disease itself the amount of M'atery constituent falls again to, or below, the normal figure. Coincident with the accumulation of watery fluid in the cerebral tissue, there occur congestion of the vessels and sinuses of the dura mater, con- gestion of the pia mater between the convolutions, loosening and softening of the medullary substance, and sometimes swelling. The subarachnoid spaces contain but little fluid. Buhl designates this condition as acute cerebral oedema. In the opposite condilion, that of acute cerebral atrophy, the tissue of the brain is stiff, the gray matter pale, the medullary brilliantly white. The arachnoid is milky ; the subarachnoid and ventricular spaces contain a large quantity of fluid, effused to occupy the room of the shrinking organ. The symptoms during life correspond with the above-described conditions. While the cerebral tissue contains much fluid, there is unconsciousness ; when the fluid disappears, conscious- ness returns. This correspondence is very striking in cholera, during the asphyxial stage of which (when the water-amount is much diminished) the mind is clear; while in the typhoid stage (when the watery consti- tuent returns to the normal amount) stupor and coma ensue. Buhl does not think that Uiere is an invariable connection between the existence of a normal amount of fluid in the brain tissue and its capacity for functional activity, but that the latter depends on tissue metamorphosis taking place equally and regularly. Tetanic phenomena in cerebral oedema appear to Buhl to depend on the amount of cerebral activity on the one hand, and on increased pressure of fluid on the cord on the other. Buhl describes the muscular tissue of the heart as swollen, brittle, and having its fibres beset with fine granules, the results, he says, of a parenchymatous inflam- mation. Snioler corroborates Stokes's account of the softened state of the heart, and of the corresponding M'eakening of the first sound. In three cases described by Lebert an unusual development of gas in the blood, or4.6 uepout on phactical medicine. in various organs, was observed after death. In one instance the liver M'lis quite spong)', and numerous air-bubbles were seen under its serous covering. The spleen, the kidneys, intestine, mesentery, sul)cutaneous tissue, and cervical arteries, were simiiurly affected. Tlie gas was sup- posed to be CO2, from its acid smell and from the acid reaction of the blood. In all the cases intestinal haemorrhage had occurred before death. Ebers found in three instances extravasation of blood in the recti-abdoniinal muscles.—Treatment. Monneret, Herard, Brand, Almes, all agree in tlie importance of giving a very nourishing and supporting diet in typhus. Bad symptoms are less likely to occur, convalescence commences sooner, and complications are more rare. Gigon lays stress on due ventilation of the sick-room, and mentions that almost all the patients died who were placed in a certain corner, where there was always a foul smell because it was diQicult to renew the air. Lebert finds advantage from the appli- cation of leeches to the head in cases of severe head affection, apparently meningitic. Lauer ('Ungar. Ztschr.,' xi, 6, i86o,) recommends Pot. lod. as a specific in abdominal typhus, from eighteen years' experience. He affirms that, given before the tenth day, it will save 97 per cent, of all cases. The dose is about gr. i. 0. h. Several observers maintain the advantage of giving emetics at the commencement, either for the purpose of merely clearing out the priraEE vise, or of producing an abortive effect on the disease. Others regard them as absolutely injurious. Calomel is thought by Brand and Kerschensteiner to render the course of the disease milder when given in full doses at the outset. Billard, E. ('Gaz. des Hopit.,' 4, 6, 7, i860) advises the administration of saHne purgatives as long as the stools are offensive, believing that the presence of fetid gas in the intestine gives rise to bad symptoms. Digitalis is of use in severe cases when the violence of the fever threatens danger; it lowers the tem- perature and the pulse. Veratria was found by Vogt to have the effect of rapidly relieving the head and suppressing the fever. It is not to be given if the circulation is very much depressed. Quinine has been tried by several, but the general result is by no means favorable to the view that it has any power of arresting the fever. Almes gave a chalybeate water for habitual drink to his patients, with advantage. Brand found chlorine water and pyroligneous acid of no use. Van der Decken and Brand give detailed accounts of the treatment of typhus by hydro-therapy. Furuncles or small abscesses are described as occurring commonly, and as having a critical significance. A full eruption of this kind is always fol- lowed by a rapid and complete recovery. The cerebral functions remain nearly intact; delirium is exceedingly rare. After every bath the patient falls into a deep, tranquil sleep, and remains thus during three fourths of the whole period of the disease. The tongue never gets dry and crusted, desire for food continues, and diarrhoea is slight, or ceases at a time when usually it is severe. Ileo-ccecal pain and meteorism soon disappear ; ulcerations probably do not form. One general rule of the treatment is to carry the cooling process by means of affusions, baths, and .airing, to such a degree as to reduce the febrile phenomena to a minimum. As soon as the diagnosis is clear, cold afl'usions with water at 59°-5^° Fahr. are to be commenced, the patient being placed in a half-bath at 84° Fahr., and to be repeated every three or four hours. During exacerbations ofGENERAL SYSTEM. 47 fever tlie (empernture of the water is to be lower, and the bath to be longer continued, say ten minutes. Brand lays stress on the manage- ment of what he calls degenerated typhus, when the cerebral power is greatly depressed. The affusions must not be of a lower temperature than about'68'' Frthr., the bath not below 90° Fahr., the wet-slieet rubbings not below 62° Fahr. The baths must also be of shorter duration, and repeated about three or four times daily, especially when the sensory faculties become clouded, and the patients get restless. In cases showing great adynamia and profound sopor, frequently repeated cold affusions on the head are recommended. The occurrence of convulsions, which are not altogether rare, make it necessary to abstain from all water-treatment except compresses. Absolute repose, and the avoidance of all shock to the nervous system, are essential. In cases of copious intestinal hremorrhage Lebert recommends Argenti Nitrat. internally and in enemata, and ergotin every two or three hours. If bronchial secretion collect so as to interfere with the breathing, Skoda advises an occasional emetic. MuRCHisoN, C.—On the Causes of Continued Fevers. Lond. Med. Rev., April, 1863. Murchisou remarks with regard to typhus—(i) its tendency to prevail in great epidemics; (2) that though it is not especially linked to any season of the year, it prevails most towards the end of winter, and least towards the end of summer; (3) that destitution predisposes most powerfully to it; (4) that it is eminently contagious ; (5) that defective ventilation and overcrowding of human habitations exercise a powerful influence over its production and propagation. Relapsing fever is also essentially an epi- demic disease, being quite absent for some years from the London Fever Hospital. Starvation appears to have more to do with its production than overcrowding. Enteric fever, on the other hand, is an endemic disease, and varies in its degree of prevalence much less than typhus and relapsing fever. It prevails most in autumn. A high temperature is favorable to the increase and spread of the disease, while it is checked by cold and wet. Destitution does not predispose to it, nor is it generated by over- crowding and bad ventilation. Recent residence in an infected locality predisposes strongly to enteric fever. It is contagious, but only in a limited degree. Emanations from sewage and certain forms of putrefying animal matter produce enteric fever, either, according to one view, from spontaneous generation of the poison in the decomposing filth, or, according to the other view, merely because the sewage is the recipient of the infectious excreta of some previous fever patient. Murchison advocates the former opinion—(i) Because there are many facts which show that enteric fever often arises from bad drainage, independently of any trans- mission from the sick. The danger arises when the drain becomes choked up, when the sewage stagnates and ferments, and when the trans- mission of a poison from any distant locality is impeded, if not completely arrested. (2) There are numberless instances of enteric fever appearing in houses having no commuuication by drains with any other dwelling, as, for example, in isolated houses in the country. (3) There is no evi- dence that the stools of enteric fever are of such a virulent nature as has been stated. If an infinitesimal dose of the poison will produce the3USP011T ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 48 disensc, it is extrnordinnry that the uttendnnts ou the Bick are rarely attacked. Murchison has fed a pig for six weeks on the stools of patients suil'ering with enteric fever, hut the animal got very fat, and remained well, and when killed its intestines were perfectly healthy. Yet the pig is well known to suffer from enteric fever. The stools in this disease are remark- ahly prone to decomposition, which would surely destroy a specific animal ))()ison similar to that contained in the variolous or vaccine pustule. (4) The fact that the prevalence of the disease is influenced hy temperature is opposed to the idea that it depends on a specific poison derived from the sick, hut is readily accounted for on the supposition that the poison is generated by fermentation or decomposition. It is possible that the stools of enteric fever are more prone than ordinary sewage to the peculiar fermentation by which the poison is produced, and even that in certain cases the fermentation may have commenced before their discharge from the bowels. In this way enteric fever may occasionally be propagated by the stools, but even then the poison is the result of decomposition, and not of a specific eruption. To the objection that persons are often ex- posed to the effluvia from decomposing animal matter without contracting enteric fever, Mui'chison replies that it is not every kind of animal matter that will generate the poison of enteric fever during decomposition, and that even in the case of sewage it is probable that certain conditions are necessary. It is true that a few cases of enteric fever occur which cannot be traced to defective drainage. Ou this Murchison observes, that if the disease can be proved to originate in a certain way in a number of undoubted instances, it is reasonable to infer that its causes are similar in all cases where it has a spontaneous origin. In conclusion, it is argued that, as there is no analogy between the poison of fever and an organized being, there is no valid ground for denying the spontaneous generation of the former, because we are assured that the latter are never so produced. Primatera and Prudente, MM. (Bull. G^uer. de Therap., Aug. .30th, 1863 ; Brit. Med. Jour., Sept. 12th), state that absence of chlorides from the urine is a pathognomonic sign of typhoid fever. During the increase of the disease, or when it is about to end fatally, there is also a very con- siderable diminution of the phosphates and urates. When recovery com- mences, the phosphates are at first rapidly increased; then the urates in like manner; and, finally, the reappearance, though tardy, of the chlorides, shows that convalescence is fully established. Harvey, E. R., M.D.—On Continued Fever, as it has appeared at Si. George's Hospital during the period May to November, 1862. Of 3 cases where the intestines were found ulcerated, i had no skin eruption; the others had rose spots. Of 3 whose intestines showed patches of congestion, 2 had mulberry spots, and i only petechise. In 8 cases of typhus, diarrhosa occurred, contrary to former experience. Including the fatal cases, there had been 58 cases of fever during the period, of which 9 had died. Of typhus there were 34 cases, of typhoid 12, and of febriculte 12. In 17 of all the cases there was no eruption ; 2 of these were typhoid, 2 typiius, and the others febricular. All the typhoid patients had confusion of thought, but no active delirium. Of the tvphus patients, in 5 the brain was clear, 11 were slightly dehnous.GENERAL SYSTEM. 49 niul 18 severely so. In no case did a case of each type come fi'om the same liouse. Tlie treatment mostly pursued was supporting and symp- tomatic; one physician, however, gave an emetic at tirst, and afterwards quinine in doses' of 3], o. honi, ad tres vices; subsequently gr. ij, 4tis Loris. This plan did not seem advantageous. BtcuANAN, G.—On recent Typhus in Lancashire. Brit. Med. Journ., March 14th. Since tlie great typhus epidemic iu Lancashire at the time of the Irish famine in 1847-48, there has been scarcely any of this disease in the cotton towns. Typhoid has, however, prevailed, and been often returned to the registrar as typhus. In 1862, however, positive macu- lated typhus has made its appearance. The disease has been most preva- lent at Preston, and next at Manchester, and has also appeared in other places. The origin seems traceable to overcrowding of human beings together in a state of destitution and semi-starvation. The epidemic began to subside at the very time that the condition of the people began to improve, as shown by the diminished numbers in receipt of relief. IMautyn, S.—On ihe recent occurrence of Typhus Fever in Bristol. Brit. Med. Journ., July iith. Mariyn stales that at least 35 cases of veritable typhus have occurred in Bristol during November and December, 1862, and January, 1863. Six at least died. Tiiose remedies did most good which relieved the head ; and in severe cases the cerebral symptoms were paramount. Thus, a raised position, shaving the head, leeches on the temples, cold tc the scalp, antimony, purgatives, warmth to the extremities—all did good. Siimuiants could by no means be used indiscriminately. Quinine appa- rently distressed the cerebral circulation. Opium sometimes aided sleep, but rarely. Chambers, T. K.—Brit, and For. Med. Rev., Oct., 1863. Reports that he has treated, during twelve years, at Saint Mary's Hospital, 230 cases of continued fever. Of these, 109 were treated on what he calls general principles, i. e., with nt-utral salines, ter vel quater die, small doses once or twice a day of Ilydr. Greta, at first, and subsequently with bark, ammonia, and wine, when tiie symptoms required it. The others were treated with liquid animal food every two hour.s, and a dose of dilute muriatic acid. Of the first group there died 21, exclusive of 2 who succumbed speedily after admission ; and of the second, 3, exclusive of i djing in the same way. The mean period of convalescence was shortened in tl)e subjects of the acid treatment by two and a half days. Chambers ascribes the greater success of the acid treat- ment to the improved condition of the digestive mucous membranes. He thinks ipecacuau emetics sometimes cut short the fever. Rknsiiaw, C. J.—Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 31st. Records three cases of smallpox, not confluent, which were treated with dc-cociion of Sarracenia purpurea, apparently with decided benefit. One had not been vaccinated. There was no pitting iu any. 450 lllil'OllT ON i'UACTlCAL MKUICINK, Haldanu.—Oti the employment of Sarraceiua purpurea in Smallpox. Edin. Med. Jouin., Jan. llaldanc gave the decoetion of the dried root to six patients, iu whom the disease was unmodified by vaccination or a previous attack, and reports that no change whatever of any kind was produced, lie regards the drug as utterly useless. BoWEN, F., M.D.—Med. Times and Gaz., May 23rd. Relates that he has found, after trials with many otlier remedies, nothing so successful for preventing the pitting after smallpox as puncturing the vesicles, from the fifth to tiie seventh day, with a needle dipped in a solu- tion of Arg. Nitras, 5ss, ad Aq. 3j. In twenty-four hours the vesicle has dried up, no itching or unpleasantness remaining. His first experience of this plau was in a case where one side only of the face was thus treated ; the result being that while the unoperated side was deeply pitted, the other half was smooth and free from spots as before the attack. Marson, J. F.—Lancet, July 4th. V States that he made trial of the Sarracenia purpurea in i J cases. He reports that he cannot say it had any effect whatever. It did not save life; it did not modify in the least the eruption of smallpox ; it did not influence any of the secretions; it did not increase the flow of urine ; in only one instance did it seem to act on the bowels, and this seeming effect might easily have been from other causes. All the cases died. Ckosby, J. P.—Med. Times and Gnz., July nth. Gives a report of the recent epidemic of smallpox in Edinburgh. The number of cases was 350, of whom 45 died. The males were 189, the females 161. The most common age was from 20 to 25. The highest mortality occurred at ages from 30 to 50, and next under 5 years. Vac- cination had been performed in 206, in many very imperfectly ; the mor- tality among these was 4, and in 3, at least, there was a serious complica- tion, as delirium tremens, puerperal mania, acute bronchitis. Of the 124 unvacciuated, 41 died, or i in 3 ; the ratio of the vaccinated being as WiLKS.—Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 17th, 31st. Gives some interesting "Notes on Scarlet Fever," in which he mentions a form of rheumatism which is apt to accompany the exanthemata. In this, as iu ordinary rheumatic fever, there is hyperinosis of the blood, a tendency to deposition of the fibrine of the blood in the capillary system of the viscera and on the valves of the heart, and to endocarditis. Pyemia does not appear to be the cause of this affection, but rather a peculiar state of the blood, in which some secondary poison has been developed. Another point which he notices at some length is the not unfrcquent difli- cultv of diagnosis between scarlatina and measles; a child, for instance, havin"' a me°asly rash, cough, wheezing, coryza, and the general aspect of measles, with also a swollen neck, an injected throat, and tumiJ, soft palate Wilks is inclined to look upon such cases as belonging to a dis- tinct affection, which, with Dr. Copland, he would term rubeola.51 GJiNKllAL SYSTEJr. IvKNNEDy, H., A.B., M.B.—^ Casein which a Disease like Measles arose from an umcsiud cause, with Remarks. Dublin Quart. Jour, of Med. Sc., 1863. A boy, ret. 15, in perfect health, had a quantity of mouldy flax-seed meal tlirown on his face, which got into his eyes and probably down his tliroat. He was at once seized -with smarting and watering of the eyes, running from the nose, cough, and dyspnoea. Hia face soon became much swollen, eyelids and eyes very red, and the dyspnoea urgent. There was great excitement of the system. The following day he had, except the rash, all the look of a boy suffering from a sharp attack of measles, a disease wliich he had had two years before. He was treated by salines, tartar emetic, and blisters, and got well in three weeks. Kennedyfitids that mouldy meal contains fungi, and refers to the researches of Dr. Salisbury, showing that straw fungi are capable of producing a form of measles, whether they are inoculated or inhaled. This American physician produced fungi, of which he gives drawings, by rendering straw mouldy. With these he inoculated some thirteen persons, the result being that, within two days, a disease exactly like measles in some, including the rash, followed. He has since found that similar inoculation acts as a prophylactic against ordinary measles. Kennedy concludes that in his case the symptoms were produced by the contact of fungi in the meal with the mucous surfaces, and thinks that fungi may play a considerable part in producing certain acute diseases of the throat and air-passages. He proposes in such cases the administration of emetics, which, by their direct effects, may cut short disease in its early stage. Dr. Salisbury's papers are in the ' American Jour.' for July and October, 1862. FiioLicH, Reuss, and other Wurtemburg physicians, state the following conclusions with regard to rubeola and measles (' Wurtemb. Corr. Bl.,' xxxii, 20, 1862; 'Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 118, p. 187):—(i) The general symptoms in rubeola are for the most part very slight; fever is almost absent. (2) Catarrhal symptoms are present only in exceptional cases. (3) Rubeola affords no protection against subsequent infection from measles, and vice versa. ZiEMSSEN, H., Krableb, P.—Clinical Observations of Measles, especially with regard to the Temperature. Greifswald Med. Beitrag,, p. 117, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 299. The authors endeavoured to ascertain the course of the fever in measles, and to determine how far the disease conformed to a regular fixed type,' also whether its departure occurred on critical days. They observed 311 cases during an epidemic which prevailed from August, 1861, to January, 1862. Their persuasion was that the mode of appearance and departure of the eruption afforded no sufficient criterion for classifying the cases; that the amount of fever was of much greater moment, and from this point of view they distinguish cases of slight infection, of grave, and complicated. The stage of incubation lasted, in accurately observed cases thirteen or fourteen days. Especially in adults, it was attended with some fibnie excitement, depression and catarrh. The commencement of the ' disease was marked only in five cases by a rigor, in all the others there wasItKi'OllT ON lUtACTlCAL MEDICINE, 52 only that cliilliiiess peculiar to cutarrlial fever. Children, even when they were highly feverish, did not readily take to bed. The fever ninnifested considerable dilierences, which were as follows :—(i) The temperature rose on the first day to a considerable height, fell again to the normal, and in- creased again pretty rapidly about the time of the eruption. (2) Most usually, the temperature rises steadily from the normal figure, with more or less considerable morning remissions. (3) The temperature is very high oi\ the first day.and maintains the same elevation with but sligiit remissions, till the appearance ol the eruption. In this last condition there are un- pleasant nervous symptoms, as somnolency, jactitation, delirium, wiiich indicate a grave infection, and make the prognosis more serious. With the outbreak of the e.Kant.hem the temperature reaches its maximum. This acme of the fever is not fixed to a certain time ; variations take place, which seem to stand in relation to an accelerated or retarded appearance of the e.xanthcm. In the n)ajority of all uncomplicated cases the acme happened at the beginning of the eruption, or at least within the first twenty-four hours afier the appearance of the first spots. A maximum of temperature before the outbreak of the first spots was observed only in two cases, and even in these there was only an interval of a few hours between the acme of temperature and the eruption. A maximum of temperature after the first twenty-four hours of the eruption was met with only three times. The acme of the disease lasted in the great majority of all cases not more. than twelve hours, in a few cases over twenty-four hours. When it was prolonged the disease was always severe. The following varieties were noted of the mode of decline of the feverj—(i) In tlie purest form of critical cessation of fever there occurs a rapid defervescence, which is complete in from twelve to twenty-four hours. The temperature sinks from the height of the acme rapidly and steadily down to or below the normal figure. This form of defervescence is the expression of a slight infection, which is less in proportion as the acme of the disease is brief, and the temperature docs not rise high. (2) The next foru\ is one of protracted critical termination. In the majority of cases there occurred pauses in the rapid defervescence, and the temperature sank below the normal figure, just as in croupous pneumonia. The pauses varied in length from twelve to thirty-six hours. The number of cases which manifested a critical termination of the fever was inferior to that of those which showed little or none. ( 3) The third form is that of incomplete crisis. The temperature falls at first rapidly, say rj° C. (27° Fahr.), in twenty-four hours ; afterwards it falls gradually with remissions and exacerbations, so that it takes three days to reach the normal figure. (4) The last form is that of pure lysis, which is the rarest, where no critical change is observed. Transition forms are met with between this and the others, in which the course of the fever is quite irregular. The pulse frequency for the most part follows the changes of temperature, but diff"erences between the two are not uncommon. With respect to prognosis, a fever which is uniformly high from the outset, with severe nervous phenomena, is of unfavorable omen, and so i.s a fever which runs high during the acme of the disease. A copious eruption is always more favorable under such circumstances than a scanty one. A rapid fall of the fever, after a short duration of the acme, witli a rapid dis- appearance of the exanthcm, is the ino4 favorable course that the diseaseGKNERAL SYSTEM. 58 cnn pursue. Incrense of the temperature, unless it be of short duration, after it has begun to fall, indicates either a relapse or a complication. The most frequent was catarrhal pneumonia, which could not always be dis- tinguished from croupous. It proved fatal especially in young children. Cold applications, according to Barthel's method, were found beneficial. Acute miliary tuberculosis and croupous pneumonia were the most frequent secondary or consecutive diseases. Smart, W. R. E., M.D.—On Epidemics of Yellow Fever in Bermuda. Brit. Med. Jour., March 2ist. The most intense manifestations of the disease have arisen in crowded barracks and convict-hulks, &c., especially when the healthy and the sick have been kept together. In the worst instances recorded it has been found that removal from infected localities has been always followed by an almost complete exemption of those not already aftected, by ameliora- tion of the state of the attacked, and, lastly, by an early extinction of the epidemic character of the fever. These facts show that the essential causes of the disease operate under ordinary circumstances by material local agencies, rather than by personal. During epidemics there has been always an epidemic constitution, manifested by the prevalence of catarrhal affections in the spring and of gastric affections in the early summer; these yielding to fever, which at its climax in the autumn assumed the type of yellow fever, with black vomit in a greater or less pro- portion of the attacks. Sanitary measures are the means to be relied on upon the approach of the epidemic constitution in any locality. When the epidemic has broken out, the only measure of certain value is removal from the locality. Smart thinks that the disease may be contagious, though this is not proved. Desguin.—Erysipelas of the Face in Intermittent Fever. Gaz. Med. de Paris, Nov., 1862. Brit. Med. Jour., March 7th. In the autumn of 1861 Desguin observed a large numher of cases of this kind. In every instance there was well-marked gastro-inteslinal dis- order. The erysipelas was earlier in its appearance in some cases than in others; in some it preceded the fever, in others it followed. Treatment by purgatives, followed by quinine, was successful. MooBE, W. J.—Lancet, Aug. ist. Reports his experience in the treatment of malarious fever by the sub- cutaneous injection of quinine. He finds that four or five grains of quinine administered in this way are equal in their effects to five or six times that amount taken into the stomach ; that the effects are more certain than when taken in the ordinary method ; and that relapses are more rare, lie uses a solution of 30 grains of quinine to 3SS of water, dis- solved with in.viij—X of Acid. Sulph. dil. Poor, E.—Byshrasiu Malarica, audits causal relation to Acne, Furuncles, and Anthrax. Prag. Yjhrschr., Ixxvii, p. 17, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. 183. Poor's observations were made in the malarious districts of Hungary. He states—(i) that febrile dyscrasia and the above-mentioned cutaneousBEPOnt ON PBACTICAL MEDICINE. 51 nflfechons occur in tlie snnic localities, and (a) also during the same periods of time. (3) Both nffectiona liave the same prodromnta. (4) Tlie phenomena of hotl> are more or less similar. (<;) Acne and furuncles lire chronic, like the fthrilc dyscrasia; carbuncle,is acute and perilous, like a pernicious intermittent. (6) Tlie same remedies are successfid in both species. (7) The patliological changes are in many respects similar. (8) The same morbid process is probably concerned in the genesis of these disorders. The author supposes that the decaying blood-cells in malarious cachexia give rise to pigment-granules, which, being arrested in the cutaneous capillaries, produce acne, furuncles, and anthrax, according to the greater or less vital power of the individual. CiiASSAGNE.—Gaz. des Hopit, 62, 1863. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 119, Relates the case of a soldier in Algeria, who on five separate occasions had two paroxysms of intermittent fever, the second being succeeded by a copious eruption of herpes labialis and of furuncles on the limbs, which appeared to be critical, and put an end to the disorder for the time. No quinine was taken. Wise, T. A., M.D.—On the HcEmostatic Treatment of Cholera, Ucemor- rhage. Exhaustion, ^c. Dub. Quar. Journ. of Med. Sc., Aug., 1863. The object of this communication is to recommend the use of the tour- niquet during the cold stage of ague, in choleraic collapse, and similar states. He states—(i) 13y its obstructing the circulation, it immediately stops the distressing cramps of the extremities in cholera. (2) liy in- creasing the quantity of the circulating fluid in the trunk, and thereby stimulating the heart's action, it removes morbid congestion, stops the secretions from the bowels, increases the animal heat, and powerfully tends to restore health. (3) By improving the vigour of the system, medicines act more powerfully, and in a more salutary manner, in removing morbid actions. (4) When the reaction has taken place, by loosening the tour- niquets with care, the determination of blood to the internal parts is di- minished by its diffusion over the extremities upon which the tourniquet had been placed. They are immediately to be retightened when there is any coldness or weakness experienced, or any tendency to relapse. This must be most carefully watched for and prevented. (^) By increasing the volume of blood in the contracted circulation, the force of the heart is increased, local congestions are I'emoved, and the whole system is strengthened. Donaldson, J., M.D.—On the treatment of Fever. ]\Iadras Quart. Jour, of Med. Sc., April, 1863. Donaldson has made trial of cobweb in the treatment of intermittent, remittent, and common continued fever in India, and reports very favora- bly of it. The dose is gr. v, in pill, ter die, or oftcner. It may be given advantageously during the paroxysms as well as in the intermissions; and, as Donaldson himself testifies from personal experience, quickly and gratefully relieves the almost insupportable headache and restlessness of an ncntc ntfack. In quartans and other inveterate forms of fever, which55 GENERAT, SYSTEHr. liave resisted daily repeated 3j-doscs of quinine, tlie good efTccts of cobweb are most conspicuous. Newman—Oh Diphtheria. Brit. Med. Jour., Feb. 28tli. Duriu"- the last six months of 1861, Newman observed 18 cases (10 males and 8 females), two of whom were under the age of 10, 7 aged 10—20 years, and 9 older. One died, a child, set. 4, from direct affection of the larnyx. One case hnd partial paralysis of both lower extremities, sensation being more damaged than motor power. In one case, almost from the very commencement, there was excessive sickness. Absolute repose, maintenance of general power, and the local application of Beau- foy's chloride of soda, with a large brush, twice or thrice daily, are the most useful remedial measures. In the severer cases he advises one application of H. CI. Stokes.—Dub. Jour. Med. Sc., Feb., 1863. Exhibited to the Pathological Society the pharynx and respiratory organs of a patient dead of diphtheria. The point of interest was that the tongue, tonsils, pharynx, epiglottis, larynx, trachea, and right bronchus, were more or less thickly coated with the deposit, even as far as the fourth or fifth bronchial ramification, while the left bronchus remained quite free from it. The right lung was cedematous and consolidated, the left comparatively healthy. jAFi'K, Max.—Report on Diphtheria z?) its epidemiological and nosological relations. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. '2,^6. This is a continuation of the former report on the same subject (Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 113, p. 96). We can only notice some of the more important papers. Weber, H. ('Virchow's Arcliiv,' xxv, p. 114, 1862) relates seven cases of consecutive paralysis, concerning which he expresses the opinion that it depends on a primary jjeripheral alteration of the nerves, of which we have no exact knowledge, and which our pre- sent means are insufficient to investigate. This is propagated from the originally affected part to the spinal centre, much in the same way as in tetanus the irritation is transmitted from the wound. Roger ('Archiv. G6n.,' Jan., Feb., April, I862) gives a detailed account of clinical inquiries respecting diphtherial paralysis, with statistics respecting croup. His first section treats of the frequency of paralysis in diphtheria, which is shown by comparative figures (v. 'Year-book,' 1863, p. 82) to be very greatly above that observed in other acute diseases. The second section contains a summary of the various cases of paralysis. There were altogether 36 cases, of wiiich 27 belonged to the throat and soft palate (16 of these terminating fatally) ; 7 cases of general paralysis ending in recovery, and 2 ending fatally. Most of these cases were from 4 to 6 years old ; the next largest number were between 2 and 4, and the third between 6 and 8 years. Of 38 cases, 21 belonged to the female and 17 to the male sex. No season of the year had any special eff"ect in inducing the disease. The localization of the primary diphtheria in 12 cases was pharyngeal, in 23 was laryngeal (croup), and in 2 was cutaneous. In the 12 pharyngeal cases paralysis of the velum palati occurred ten times; once there was palsy of the sphincter ani, and once there was amblyopia. Four out of the50 i!i:roin' ox puactical medicink. lo cnsc's of vdiini pninlysis were miconiplicntod, 4 had extensive paralysis, niul 2 iiad paraplegia. In tlie pliaryngo-Iaryiigcnl ca.-^es, denominated oronp, tlierc was almost invariably paralysis of the pharynx; in one there was general paralysis, and in one general weakness and persistent aphonia. Ik'sides these, there was also a case of palatal paralysis in a ehild, who liad had diphtheric exudation in the mastoid region and in the external auditory meatus. The same paralysis associated with paraplegia occurred in a little girl who had suffered from cutaneous diphtheria, without having had the least trace of exudation in the throat. Only in two instances did the paralysis notably ad'cct the rectum and bladder. In one patient the sphincter ani alone was paralysed ; in the other, both sphincters were nlFected, and there was also paraplegia. Among all the cases only one presented notable disorder of the visual apparatus, and in this the ambly- opia was the sole sign of paralysis, and there was no albuminuria through- out. The first appearance of paralysis occurred at very ditferent periods, and with the greatest variations in them. Nothing accurate could be made out respecting the mode of development of the paralysis, or the order in which the several forms occurred. The duration of the paralysis was very various, and did not appear to depend on any peculiarity in the situation of the primary disease, or of itself. The intercurrent diseases, broncho-pneumonia, pleuritis, measles, &c., seem to exercise no important influence on the course, the severity, or the termination of the palsies. The prognosis is generally favorable, and the palsy is only dangerous Avheu it affects the respiratory muscles, and aggravates thereby an inter- current pneumonia, when the dysphagia makes it necessary to feed the patient with an oesophagus-tube, and the system is depressed by inani- tion as well as by the original disease or when in very young children there is paralysis of the velum palati, when sudden death by suffocation may ensue during attempts at swallowing. Tiie most important remedies are tonics and local galvanism. The third section deals with statistics, no distinction being apparently made between simple, inflammatory, and diphtherial croup. During 1859 and i860 there occurred altogether in the children's hospital 441 cases of diphtheria, among which there were 362 cases of primary or secondary croup. About one fifth more girls were affected (in these years) by diphtheria than boys; in former years the contrary was the case. Of the 213 cases, 14 were i to 2 years old, 85 from 2 to 4, 68 from 4 to 6, 20 from 6 to 8, 15 from 8 to 10, 8 from 10 to 12, I about 14, i about 16, and i over 16 years of age. The colder months of the year, especially the first four, produced the largest number of cases. In January there were 25, in February 21, in March a6, in April 21, in May 18, in June 14, in July 12, in August ij, in September 14, in October 15, and in November and December 17 in each. In 60 cases no contagion could be detected in 25. On the other hand, 17 children who were in the hospital with various acute or chronic diseases contracted diphtheria while in the wards. In iS instances one or more persons suffered with pseudo-membranous affections at the same time or a little before, in the locality,house,or family,from which the little patients came. The conclusion is, that diphtheria may be developed sponianeously or as the result of infection. Among the above-mentioned 215 cases there were 54 of pharyngeal diphtheria, 154 of simple croup (laryugeal57 GKNEHAL SYSTEAr. diplUherift), or of the latter complicated with pharyngeal, and 5 cases in which the disease appeared in some region of the body without attacking the throat or larynx. In 1859 there were 2 cases of cutaneous diphtheria, 31 of pharyngeal, 208 of laryngeal, simple or complicated. The total number of cases in the two years being 446; the total deaths were .310, nearly the same number in both years. Laryngeal diphtheria was much the most fatal form. Of 54 cases of pharyngeal only 24 died, while of 362 cases of laryngeal 330 died. Two hundred and ninety-four patients were tracheotomized, of whom only 65 recovered. Most of the fatal cases died very early after the operation ; more than half sank before the fourth day. The causes of death were chiefly pneumonia, either simple or com- plicated with bronchitis, inanition, resulting from diphtheric intoxication or from the misuse of antimonials, convulsions, suppurations in the mediastinum, gangrene or erysipelas of the edges of the wounds, and, lastly, emphysema, subpleural, or subcutaneous. Of 67 cases of croup which were not operated on, 45 died. Excluding the hopeless cases, in which no. operation was performed, the experience of the Ilopital des Enfans Malades, for three years, shows that the chance of recovery for cases which would otherwise certainly end fatally is about 19 or 20 in 100. Kiichenmeister ('Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk.,' 13, i^, 1863} has examined the effects of many local applications on diphtheric exu- dations removed from the body. He finds lime-water the most eflectual. It quite dissolves the membranes in ten to fifteen minutes, and long before that time makes their texture loose and easily broken up. In slighter cases this remedy alone may be sufficient; but in all the severer, caustics, as argenti nitras or muriatic acid, are indispensable. In cases of smart angina of the throat and tonsils the local application of lime-water, by frequent gargling or brushing, and the internal administration of nitrate and carbonate of soda, prove speedily curative. The same report contains a notice of a gangrenous affection of the fauces, which was observed by R. F. Browne ('Amer. Med. Times,' Nov., 1862). It prevailed among weakly and depressed men, reduced by the prevailing malarious fever, but did not attack the wounded. The throat was the only part affected ; there was no trace of inflammation, the disease came on imperceptibly, without pain, or sense of constriction, or dyspnoea (except in one case just before death). In none of the cases was there any pulmonary or hospital gan- grene or scurvy. The disease was solely the result of lowered vitality. The muscles, especially the tissue of the heart, were found after death flabby and autemic. Menschel & Beigel.—On Malignant Carbuncle {milzhrand). Preuss. Ver. Ztg., N.F.V. 23, 28, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 41. Menschel observed twenty-four cases, most of whom were taken ill after partaking of the flesh of diseased animals; the others were infected by communication of the poison. In the former the carbuncle appeared on the eighth to the tenth, in the latter, on the third to the sixth day. None of the attendants were infected by the sanies of the ulcers, although several were soiled by it. Several of the cases died, others recovered in seven to forty-one days. Treatment consisted of emetics, acids, alkalies, and caustics, locally. Beigel found chlorine, apparently both externally and58 HKPOUT ON PRACrrCAL irKDIOINE. internftlly, of benefit. lie lays down tlic following general conclusions : — (i) Mfiligimiit carbuncle (or pustule) never appears spontaneously in the human subject, but is always occasioned by contact \vilh a diseased ani- mal, (a) Infection only occurs when a wound or an excoriated spot comes in contact with the (lesli, blood, excrements, saliva, or moist hide of n diseased animal. (3) The contagion is destroyed by boiling heat. Meat, therefore, from a diseased carcass, after being well boiled or roasted, may be eaten with impunity. (4) The prognosis in most cases of the disease is favorable. (5) Cauterizations, or removal of the diseased structure by the knife, is of no avail four or five days after the formation of the characteristic pustule. Edmunds, J.—Case of Malignant Pustule. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 31st. A healthy male, aet. 50, went to bed perfectly well between 10 and 11 p.m. At midnight he was seized with a rigor, and at .3 a.m. his tongue was greatly swollen. At 11 a.m. his countenance indicated considerable distress and profound toxsemia; there was considerable swelling in the sublingual space, pushing upwards the tongue, which, as well as all the surrounding parts, was natural; the swelling was soft and yielding. The patient was very feeble, his pulse weak, his voice husky. Three or four days before, he had eaten some jugged hare, which was high, and had had at the same time a sore from a bad tooth beneath the tongue, where some of the meat lodged, and through which putrid infection might have occurred. The sublingual mass was deeply incised, but did not cut in the least like carbuncle, rather like soft flesh; no pus exuded, and no bleeding followed. Iodine was applied on lint, large doses of carb. ammonia given, with champagne ud libit. At 10 p.m. there was some improvement, but at midnight exactly, a second rigor occurred, the swelling increased enormously and there was a profuse blackish discharge. Death occurred at 3 a.m. Edmunds remarks that the case materially differs from those of malignant pustule. BuDD, W., M.D.—Observations on the occurrence of Malignant Pustule in Engla7id, illustrated by numerous fatal cases. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 24th, 3i8t, Feb. 14th, March 7th. (v. 'Year Book' for 1863, P- 51)- FTjINT, a.—A Contribution toward the Natural Histoiy of Articular Rheumatism, consisting of a Report of Cases treated solely loith Palliative Measures. Amer. Jour, of Med. Sc., July, 1863. In all the cases the patients had small or moderate doses of opium, dry flannel to the affected joints, with liniments of opium, aconite, or camphor. All but one had tincture of quassia, largely diluted, inter- nally, as a placebo ; the exception had gr. ij of quinine daily. In all but two cases the disease was acute, in two it was subacute. The duration of the disease, from the date of its attack to convalescence (excluding the case complicated with pericarditis and pneumonia), varied between 12 and 56 days. Tiie duration was under 15 days in 3 cases, over 15 »nd under 20 days in i case, between 20 and 25 days in 3 cases, between59 GENERAL SYSTEM. 2'', and 30 clays in 3 cases, and in the remaining 2 cases the duration ■was in one case 415, and in the other 56 days. The mean duration was a small fraction under 26 days. The duration from convalescence to the date of discharge, or complete recoverj% varied from 5 to 27 days. The mean duration was a fraction over 16 days. The time in hospital varied from 12 to 50 days, the mean being a fraction over 30 days. These results go to show considerable diversity as regards the intrinsic tendency of the disease to end after a certain period. They show, how- ever, tliat the disease does end from self-limitation after a duration vary- ing in different cases. They go to show also that the mean duration with- out curative treatment cannot greatly exceed the average length of the disease when active measures are employed with a view of controlling it. Under the head of the number of joints affected, after detailing those that were affected in each case, Flint states that he does not think that his cases were worse off than those treated in the usual way; and with regard to the intensity of the articular affection, he holds the same opinion. An endocardial or bellows murmur existed in 11 of the 13 cases; but as it was limited to the base of the heart in all but 3 cases, Flint does not consider that it resulted from endocarditis. He thinks that such a murmur will be found in the majority of cases, especially in females (all Flint's were females but two), if a careful examination be made with Camman's stethoscope. He has also been led to doubt whether a mur- mur at the apex and over the body of the heart, developed in the course of rheumatism, is to be regarded in itself as sufficient evidence of endo- carditis. A murmur in these situations may be developed and disappear during convalescence; this was observed in one of the 3 cases in which a murmur existed at the apex. There is reason to believe that murmurs here, as well as at the base, may be of haemic origin. To be evidence of endocarditis, a murmur must be mitral, developed under observation, per- sisting and having a certain degree of intensity, and it should be associated with pain or uneasiness in the precordia, tenderness, and greater disturb- ance of the heart's action than is consistent with the febrile movement belonging to the rheumatism. BoucHTJT—Jour, de Med. et de Chir. pratiq., Aug., 1863. Relates the case of a child, set. 5 years, who had hydrothorax of the right side, followed by acute articular rheumatism. The child was treated with a combination of veratria and opium, about one tenth of a grain of each, in a pill; two of which were given the first day, three the second, four the third. In four days the pulse had fallen to 56, and the hydro- thorax and the articular pains had completely yielded. Fuller, H. W.—Clinical Lectures on Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, and Sciatica. Lancet, Jan. 24th, 31st. Sept. 26th. Tn subacute rheumatism Fuller gives guaiacum. Pot. Carb., Pot. lod., and Pot. Acet. In cases of inactivity of the skin and liver hot-air baths and mercurial purgatives are essential. In cases of exhaustion tonics must be administered. Chronic rheumatism Fuller believes is often de- pendent on a different materies morbi from that which gives rise to acute rheumatism, and its treatment must consequently be different. PeriostealliKPOltT 0\ I'ltACTlCAT, MKOICINE. nodes, nccoriliiis; to Fuller, occur in persons who are always cachectic, and ■who commonly have suHercd from syphilis or have had their systems satu- rated by mercury. He recommends in such cases, besides support and bark, Pot. lodid., with a little biniodide of mercury, the latter being held in solu- tion by an excess of the potassium salt. In gonorrhoeal rheumatism also he finds the same medication very efficacious, taking care to arrest at the same time, the urethral discharge, if it still exist. When the joints remain thickened, painful, and stiffened, Fuller finds the best treatment to con- sist in cold douching to the parts, followed by rough friction, and then enveloping them in lint steeped in the following lotion :—Tinct. lod. co. 5S8, Glycerinii 3iiss, Aquae ^iij; M. This causes no cutaneous irritation, and ensures a constant absorption of iodine. With regard to rheumatic gout. Fuller expresses a decided opinion that it is a disease sui (jeneris, totally distinct from gout and equally so from rheumatism; indeed, it seems to him to resemble scrofulous inflammation more nearly than rheu- matism in its nature. Pathological research has shown that in the earliest stage of the disease the capsules of the aff"ected joints are distended with fluid, the synovial membrane is thickened and intensely vascular, and vas- cular tufts exist at the margins of the cartilages ; that as the disease pro- gresses the fluid is absorbed as well as the interarticulate fibro-cartilages, and eburnation of the articulating surfaces takes place ; that the heads of the bones become enlarged and altered in shape by the occurrence of inter- stitial absorption in some parts and of irregular osseous deposits in others ; and that foreign bodies, of varying consistence and character, are often developed both within and without the joints—bodies which are some- times cartilaginous, sometimes bony, sometimes attached by longer or shorter pedicles to the synovial membrane or to the ligamentous structures, and at others are loose within the joint. It has shown that these changes may take place slowly, without any general febrile disturbance or any acute local inflammatory action; and, on the other hand, that they may be pre- ceded and accompanied by fever, and by pain, heat, and inflammatory swelling of the parts ; that the bursae and sheaths of tendons in the vici- nity of the affected joints are prone to be implicated in the mischief, but that neither in the joints nor in the adjacent bursse or sheaths of tendons are any of the ordinary products of inflammation found—there is no lymph, and no pus, and no urate of soda, as in gout. In other words, it has shown that the characteristic changes which occur in the joints as the result of rheumatic gout take place independently of active inflammation, and that the acute inflammatory action which sometimes precedes or accompanies these structural changes is simply a complication of the dis- order, and by no means necessary to its perfect development. These struc- tural changes occur not in the robust, the well- or over-fed, but are more common in women than in men ; very frequently arise in persons who lead a temperate life and are small eaters; and never present themselves in persons who are constitutionally sound, unless they have been subjected to some cause of nervous exhaustion and enfeebled health. The ofl'spring of consumptive parents, especially weakly women ; men rendered cachec- tic by excessive venery or syphilis, mental strain, anxiety, or over-fatigue, are most liable to suffer from this disorder. In women the disease is often traceable to the cachexia entailed by perversion of the uterine functions,GENJillAL SYSTEM. 61 and it is a common sequel of over-suckling. Fuller considers the disease to be owing to a blood poison, but this, as shown by Dr. Garrod, is not uric acid. The diagnosis is not easy; it chiefly turns on the following points: —The less degree of active pyrexia, the absence of a marked rheumatic odour, the implication of a large number of joints, especially the smaller ones, simultaneously, the persistent character of the inflammation, and its non-tendency to produce disorganization of the joints. "When the disease assumes from the first a chronic form, its features are much more distinctive. The patient is weak and languid, often chilly, but perspires on the slightest exertion ; the urine is pale and clear, and the spirits are depressed. la the more advanced stages of the disorder depression of spirits, constant clammy nioistness of the skin, and the implication of an extraordinary number of joints, are the most striking phenomena. The form also of the articular swelling is such as cannot possibly be confounded with the cllects of rheumatism. It is obviously due, in great measure at least, to enlargement of the extremities of the bones themselves, and not merely to effusion within their capsules or to thickening of the surrounding struc- tures. Great distortion of the fingers often ensues. Fuller sums up the principal facts bearing on the treatment of the disease as follows:— (i) The malady originates in mal-nutrition, resulting not unfrequently from some hereditary infirmity of constitution, but sometimes in con- nexion with cachexia induced by a variety of causes which exhaust the nervous system. (2) That the local charges to which it gives rise are essentially distinct from those produced by active inflammation, and more nearly resemble the results which might be expected from a slow perversion of nutrition ; indeed a similar tendency to the formation of exuberant osseous growths around the joints, while the articular textures within are sufi'ering destruction and decay, is observed in malignant disease of the joints and in various strumous afl'ections of the joints, both of which are connected with a constitutional taint. (3) That whether in an acute or in a chronic form, the malady is one and the same, due to the same cause, connected with a similar failure of tone in the system, and produc- tive of similar changes in the joints ; the only difference being that in the former they occur more rapidly than in the latter. According to these views, treatment must have for its object the sustentation of the general health and the restoration of tone to the system. The local irritation of the joints may be reheved meanwhile, but the remedies which are most serviceable in rheumatism and gout are of little avail in this form of dis- ease. Colchicum, iodide of potassium, guaiacum, hot baths and vapour baths, if prescribed with a view to eradicate the disease, prove mis- chievous rather than beneficial. By depressing and enervating the already feeble patient, they establish the disorder which they were given expressly to get rid of. If these remedies are used at all it should be as alteratives in conjunction with tonics. In the acute stage of the dis- order it may be necessary for a few days to administer alkalies and altera- tive doses of blue pill or calomel, and to restrict the diet to broth or beef- tea ; but when once the true nature of the malady has declared itself, the more successful plan in the majority of cases is, notwithstanding tlie acute character of tlie symptoms, to administer bark or quinine in com- biuaticu witii small doses of alkalies, and, as soon as possible, to interposeIMiPORT ON I'iUCTlCAL MEDICINB. and check the coiiliiuinnce of tlie enfeebling ckmniy perspiration by means of a cold shower bath or dripping sheet. The latter means are of excel- lent service if reaction follows their employment, and maybe seconded very beneficially by the cold douche applied to the alfected joints. Mere affu- sion is not sudicient; the stream lias not sufficient force, and its action is not suflicieiiUy sustained. If the secretions are in good order, tonics may be given full play, and a generous diet allowed. Fuller has a very high opinion of the virtues of strychnine as a tonic when there is great depres- sion of the nervous system. The mineral acids he thinks also very valuable in this and in other diseases of an atonic character, but they should be given in larger doses than is usually the case, as from ir[vj to lll^x. Fur- ther, he is satisfied that in cases of rheumatic gout turbidity of the urine is not a bar to their administration. If, indeed, they produce deposits of lithates and dyspepsia, they must be omitted; but when the urine is habitually turbid, they often render it clear. BiiiKBECK Nevins, J., M.D.—On the treatment of Rheumatic Fever. Brit. Med. Jour., Aug. ist. He advocates quinine gr. viij + Pot. lod. 3j, daily, in four doses, from the first; and the steam bath, with subsequent cold sponging, and, as an adjunct, opium in small doses, when necessary, to produce sleep. Nevins has used this plan very largely for fifteen years, both in private practice and in public, and has not had one case of distinct cardiac affection. O'Bryen, 'Brit. Med. Jour.,' Aug. 22nd, finds the hot-air bath for the thin and aged, and the steam-, with or without the addition of sulphur, for the young and plump, followed by cold douching, equally efiectual without the quinine and Potas. lod. CuAMBEiis, T. K.—Statistics of the treatment of Rheumatic Fever. Brit. Med. Jour., Aug. 29th. Of 26 cases treated with 5j of Pot. Nitrat., ter die, the mean stay in hospital was forty days. Of 341 treated with bihoral doses of 3j of Pot. Bicarb., the mean stay was 34-3 days. Of 33 treated with a less quantity of the same, forty days. Of 11 treated without drugs, except a little opium occasionally, thirty days. Of the 26 treated with Pot. Nitras., 5 were attacked with heart disease while under treatment, and 4 died. Of 174 treated with Pot. Bicarb., 9 had inflammation of the heart, and none died. Of 63 either bedded in sheets or who had wilfully thrown ofif their blankets, 6 contracted newly pericarditis at least, if not endocarditis as well; 3 had a relapse of pericarditis on old cardiac disease; i had endocnrditis alone ; nearly 16 per cent, had inflammation of the heart, and 4 died. Of 180 in blankets, none contracted pericarditis, none died; 1 had a relapse of pericarditis on old cardiac disease ; 5 had endocarditis alone (one of them accidentally from a wetting during convalescence) ; I a relapse of endocarditis on old cardiac disease. Not 4 per cent, have had inflammation of the heart. When it came, it was of a milder cha- racter, and was generally to be accounted for by some imprudent expo- sure. ' That is to say, that bedding in blankets reduces from 16 to 4, or by a good three quarters, the risk run by patients in rheumatic fever.GENERAL SYSTEM. 63 \\'\U£, W. F.—On the treatment of Rheumatic Fever. Laucet, Oct. lOtb. . . . n "Wade tliinks that when delirium occurs in this disease it is from a detlcieucy of fibrine in the blood. In the cases where he has met with delirium the disorder has generally supervened upon diiirrhoea, and has yielded under the free use of stimulants. He uses alkaline treatment, but recommends also the administration of two to four grains of quinine every three or four hours, as soon as ever there is a distinct remission in the symptoms. This occurs in from twenty-four to seventy-two hours^ after'the commencement of the treatment. The nitrate and acetate of potash are continued night and morning. On the same day that the quinine is commenced, or on the next, meat and wine ai-e allowed. After the rheumatism is gone he gives iodide of iron. WiLKS, S., M.D.—On the Syphilitic Affections of Internal Organs. Guy's Hosp. Reports, 1863. "Wilks observes that in syphilis there is a tendency to the effusion of a low form of lymph or albumino-fibrous material in nearly every tissue of the body, occasionally modified in character to a slight extent by the organ in which it occurs. He thinks the distinction between secondary and tertiary symptoms is not well founded, and believes that the internal depositions occur at the same time as the external. What is called primary syphdis is not syphilis at all. Various morbid changes occur as sequelse of syphilis; but as they may be induced by other causes, they are not truly syphilitic. Such are caries and necrosis, disease of the carti- lages of the krynx, the lardaceous or waxy disease. Both true syphilitic alterations and non-specific sequelae may exist in the same subject. The action of mercury is highly beneficial in the former, but is eminently pernicious in the latter. Thus in true syphilitic caries mercury is useful; but if disintegration commences, above all remedies it would be harmful. The deposits take place in muscles by the exudation of a soft albuminous matter, which infiltrates the tissue, and subsequently becomes firmer. In the liver the same process occurs, and leads to the formation of fibrous nodules, which shoot out their fibrous rays into the surrounding hepatic tissue. The syphilitic deposit is characterised by its general appearance and the attendant circumstances more than by any minute structural peculiarity. He gives cases illustrating the occurrence of deposits in the various viscera, which were more or less certainly syphilitic. With regard to the brain, he says, " the majority of cases which have come under my own notice have been of the following kind. The dura mater is intimately united to the brain by adhesions of the serous surfaces; and this not by cellular tissue, but by a hard, yellow substance, sometimes of great consistence, and destroying or involving the ciueritious matter or encroaching on the medullary. In some cases the dura mater was exter- nally'adherent to the bone, and the latter was carious. When the skull is not involved, it is probable that the deposit first takes place in the arachnoid, and, indeed, in the liver and other organs the deposits all occur towards the surface, and their capsules are very seldom free. With regard to bone, there is a disposition in syphilis to the production of an albuminous product beneath the periosteum and iu the vascular canals ofllliPOttT OX I'llACTICAL MEUICINK. the bone. This may ossify, producing enlargement or hypertrophy of the part; or if ulceration takca place, a caries results. Oi'i'OLZUii.—S!/i)hi/U of the Liver. Wieu. Med. Halle, 24, 27, 1863. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 120, p. 309. After relating a case, Oppolzer notices the diagnosis of this disease from, cirrhosis, cancer, and colloid infiltration. Cirrhosis is to be distinguished by the diminution of size, the unevenness of surface, and the history of spirit-drinking. From cancer it may be distinguished by the previous symptoms and the age, tliough not with certainty. The existence of colloid infiltration (waxy degeneration?) is made probable by the presence of tubera in the liver, and slight jaundice, considerable swelling of the spleen, and the previous occurrence of ague. Oppolzer himself has mistaken cases of syphilis of the liver for cancer, and published them as cures. The best remedy is Pot. lod. DiDAY.— On the Natural History of Sif/ihilia, Gaz. des Hopit., 30, 33, 36, 1863. Schmidt's Jabrb., vol. 120, p. 56. Diday M'ould restrict the term chancre to the hard form, would apply the term "chancrelle" to designate the soft, and chancroid to the sore produced in those already sypliilized by the pus from indurated ulcers. He believes that every instance of acquired syphilis commences in the same way; that the disease may get well without specific treatment, or relapse after such treatment, even when it has been conducted in the best manner ; and that there is no necessity for syphilis to advance to the tertiary period. These differences depend on the degree of intensity of the dis- ease, and this again depends on the quality and mode of communication of the poison, and on the age, temperament, and habits of the infected individual. Inherited syphilis is, he thinks, much more intense than acquired. Primary affections, which are less easily communicable, pro- duce also slighter forms of syphilis; thus, broad condylomata cause slighter disease than chancres. In the case of the infecting, indurating chancre, incubation lasts, on an average, fourteen days; in infecting flat tubercles twenty-nine days. Between the primary affection and the appearance of the first constitutional symptoms there is an interval in the case of chancre of fifty-seven, in tlie case of flat tubercles of seventy-four days. It is not rare for the (indurated) chancre to be neither indurated nor excoriated. The form it presents may not be the same as that of the chancre from which it is derived ; it rather depends on the individuality of the recipient. Alopecia, emaciation, and loss of ability for work, are the usual prodromata of constitutional symptoms. A simple roseola or an acne-like eruption on the head indicate that the syphilitic disorder is slight; while an impetigiuoid eruption, and a grayish, diphtheritic, and ulcerating appearance of condylomata, betoken a grave disease. Recru- descences, not relapses, indicate a greater intensity of syphilis, in pftpor- tion as tliey return more frequently and more early. With regard to treatment, Diday warns that we must not expect to eradicate the disease, but only to suppress its phenomena. He advises mercury to be used in actually indurated chancre, in recrudescences (as syphilitic eruptions, or iritis), and in hereditary syphilis. It is to be given as long after the65 GENEllAL SYSTEM. symptoms have disappeared, as it had to be given before this event. Tlie patient's general health and strength should be promoted as much as possible. Makston, J. A., M.D.—Ol/servatmis upon St/philis in its manifestations as a Constitutional Disease. Med.-Chir. Trans,, vol. xlvi, p. 83. Marston remarks that a cutaneous syphilide, extensive but superficial, denotes a milder degree of constitutional infection ; while the discrete and hjcaUzed morbid processes, affecting the deeper tissues of the skin and mucous membrane, have the opposite character of a severe degree of syphilitic infection. To the question what relation the severity of the primaries has to those of the later symptoms, Marston replies—(1) that the greater the induration, and the longer the period during which pri- maries remain unhealed, the more certain will be the severity of the con- stitutional infection ; (2) that the amount of ulceration, &c., of the pri- mary sore stands in some relation to the worst and more intractable forms of secondary affections—e.ff., the pustular, ecthymatous, rupitic, the unhealthy ulcerations, nodes, and gummatous tumours. Constitutional syphilitic disease often shows itself after years of latency during conva- lescence from some other disorder, as pulmonary, or some endemic com- plaint. Several cases are related of intra-cranial syphilitic affection, in which the cerebrum appears to have been decidedly involved. He notices also the occurrence of cases in which the symptoms of pulmonary phthisis were very marked, but in which the appearance of syphilitic disease, with or without specific treatment, coincided with remarkable improve- ment. With regard to the influence of a warm climate upon cases of constitutional syphilis, Marston states that the Mediterranean climate is most mischievous during the warmer six months of the year. Over and over again, during the hot months, symptoms of constitutional syphilis have refused to yield to any treatment until the winter set in, and as frequently almost they proved so intractable as to require invaliding to Great Britain, where the patients regained their health often rapidly, without any treatment, or with the aid of the same measures as had failed entirely in the relaxing climate of the Mediterranean. DlDAY, P.—On reneived Syphilitic Infection. Arch. Gener., July, Aug., 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 194. As a rule, syphilitic contagion does not affect the same individual twice. But if a person has recovered from a previous syphilis under treatment, he may contract a second by fresh exposure to contagion. Diday has observed twenty cases of this occurrence in his own practice in the course of six years. The minimum period for the complete cure of svphilis he puts at twenty-two months. Reujiont.—Deutsche Klinik, i6-i8, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, ^ p. 196. States that his experience during the last four years has confirmed his previous as to the effects of the sulphurous thermae of Aix-la-Chapelle in syphilis. lie finds that they have no specific action against constitu- tional syphilis, but that in some cases they cure tlie so-called residuary C66 hepout on practical medicine, affections, especially the cutaneous. (2) Tlmt they are an aid to diagnosis iu doubtful cases oP syphilis, and educe manifest symptoms when none such exist. (3) Tiiat they form an excellent preparation for fresh anti- syphilitic treatment, and, in combination with mercury or iodine, cure many diseases, especially of the osseous system. (4) That by themselves alone they are able to remove mercurial disorders continuing to exist after the cessation of syphilis. DiDAY.—Gaz. M(§dicale de Lyons. Edin. Med. J., April, 1862. Remarks that tertiary syphilis is a distinct pathological stage, differen- tiated by its clinical characters, its prognosis, and treatment, from secon- dary syphilis. Tertiary cannot be produced at pleasure, nor can we foresee the cases in which it will occur; in general, it continues and perpetuates itself in spite of every remedy; finally, its lesions are not contagious. If we compare the two groups, it will be seen that the characters of secondary syphilis belong to the class of virulent affections, or inoculations by morbid secretions, (such as vaccinia and tlie eruptive fevers), while those of tertiary syphilis belong to the class of diatheses (such as some skin diseases and rheumatism). This transformation from an intoxication into a diathesis is not owing to an excessive duration of the secondary period, nor to the absence of specific treatment, but on the one hand to the variable strength of the original virus, and especially to the variable degree of resistance which the organism of different patients opposes to the action of this virus. Individuals originally endued with little vital resistance, or in whom the power of resistance has been enfeebled, whether by age or by dyscrasise—whether by privation of pure air, of proper food, of sleep—whether by the effects of errors of regimen or the depressing passions—these are the persons in whom we most often see syphilis assume the permanent form, and take on tiie characters of a diathesis. Mercury fails almost invariably, iodine does but palliate. To cure, if it be possible, a diathesis, requires not less than the prolonged action of all reconstituent influences, requires not less than a radical and durable change of alimentation, of residence, sometimes of profession—in short, of all the habits, whether social or moral. PiHAN-DuPElLLAY.—Oil the Alterations of the hiternal Organs pro- duced bxj Syphilis. L'Union, 61, 108, iii, 114, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 41. From two cases, one reported by himself, the author takes occasion to make the following general remarks. In both tlie remarkable phenomena were the highly developed syphilis, the induration of the wasted or enlarged glandular organs, and the circumscribed knots in their tissue. The enlargement of the liver must be regarded as the first stage of the disease, its atrophy as the second, as is also determined by periodic examination of the living subject. Tlie same is true also of the other organs. The characteristic feature of tlie alteration consists in the growth of normal cellular tissue, and wasting of the other tissues. A diagnosis can only be founded upon the antecedents, and upon the existing cachexia. The earthy tint induced by the latter gives no indication of the liver being diseased; it is quite different from the icteric tinge, andGENERAL SYSTEJI. 67 does not depend on the degree of disturbance of the liver. The indented cicntricinl patclies on the surface of the liver are produced by the shrink- ing of the connective tissue, and are found even where there is extreme atrophy. The gummatous tumours of the lungs are characterised by a stiff, thick, fibrous envelope, which causes puckering of the surface, from whence fibrous bands run into the interior of the lung. Next to this envelope comes a gray, hard substance, forming one or more nuclei, which gradually softens, and becomes at last cheesy or almost fluid. The firm as well as the liquid mass consists of fibrous tissue, cells, and fat- globules. The tumours of the liver and areolar tissue have the same con- tents. The pulmonary formations always appear late, and belong to the tertiary period of syphilis. If symptoms show themselves in the lungs during the first period of constitutional syphilis, they are the result either of the initial syphilitic fever or of actual tuberculosis. Chronic laryn- geal ulcers are occasionally present in pulmonic syphilis. Saicocele is usually one-sided, and is characterised by an extraordinary thickening of the tunica albuginea, and growth of cellular tissue in the interior, which atrophies the tubuli seminiferi. Gummatous tumours sometimes form in this fibrous mass, but seldom make their way outwards. FoRSTER. — Contributions to the Pathological Anatomy of Congenital Si/philis. Wurzb. Med. Ztschr., iv, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 43. Among 36 cases death occurred in all but one before the close of the first year, mostly during the first few weeks or months of life. Morbid changes were found in all parts, especially in the lungs and liver. In the lungs there were patches of lobular hepatization, which are distin- guished from non-syphilitic by their unusual hardness; their smooth, bacon-like, grayish-red, generally dry cut-surface ; by the usually cheesy degeneration of their centre, and the involvement of the interstitial con- nective tissue in the new formation ; and by the abundant fusiform cells and oval nuclei. Gummatous tumours are rare ; sometimes the air-cells are filled up with regularly arranged squamous epithelium. The atelek- tasis of syphilitic children has nothing characteristic ; on the other hand, croupous coryza is quite pecuHar to them. Pharyngeal ulcers are never met with, and only secondary laryngeal. In the liver fibrous inflamma- tions of the capsule were most frequent; a gummatous tumour only occurred once. Diseased conditions in the lymphatic glands, the organs of circulation, the urinary and generative apparatus, and the bones, were rare. The skin was very often diseased, and there were limited abscesses in the subcutaneous tissue. Fissures and ulcers of the lips were ob- served, and intestinal catarrh was common. In one case Peyer's glands were the seat of a peculiar fibroid degeneration, their tissue thickened and indurated and ulcerated. Pelltzani, p.—On Communication of SylMlis hy means of Inoculation of Blood. Gaz. Hebd., ix, 22, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 42. Pellizani relates that three physicians, previously quite sound, were inoculated, Feb. 6th, i86a, with the blood drawn from the arm of a68 ItEPORT ON PUA.CTICA.L SIKDICINE. female, aet. 2 ^, wlio was six montlis pregnant and nffected with secondary syphilis. Tiio arm was carefully waslicd first, and was quite free from any syphilitic aifection at the part. Some cotton was dipped in the hlood and applied to the arm of the first and the forearm of tlie other two, the epidermis iiaving first been scraped off, and three transverse incisions made. Tlie hlood applied to the two latter pliysicians had already coagulated. Tiiey remained free from any symptoms of infection, but the first, after nil trace of inoculation had quite disappeared, found on the twentieth day n papule at the same spot, which remained dry for nine days, then became moist, and began to ulcerate. The axillary glands had previously enlarged.. Two months after the inoculation nocturnal pains in the head were felt, and general roseola appeared, and the cervical glands enlarged, A little later the ulcer on the arrn was healing, and mercurial treatment was begun. Zeissl.—On Squmnous Syphilitic Eruption. Allg. Wieu. Med. Ztg., vii, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 43. Zeissl argues that there is no true eruption of this kind; that those which appear so are either erythematous, or papulous, or tuberculous, or even pustular at the stage of cicatrization. The so-called psoriasis palmaris, or plautaris, which most resembles a true squamous affection, is really a niaculo-papulous erythema, with exudation modified by situation. The firm adhesion of the cutis to the subjacent fascia, the thickness and the less extensibility of the epidermis, and the absence in these parts of sebaceous glands into which exudation usually cliiefly takes place, are the circumstances which Zeissl believes to have this modifying effect. The presence of psoriasis palmaris Zeissl regards as a favorable omen, inasmuch as it seems to exclude the probability of iridial or periosteal suppurative exudations. Wagner, E.—On Sijphiloma. Arch, d. Heilk., iv, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 173. Wagner announces that there is a specific syphilitic new formation, possessing a definite structure of cells and nuclei, just as there is a tuberculous, a sarcomatous, or carcinomatous. The cell growth lies in the interspaces of bundles of connective tissue. Faye and Hebra.—On Radesyge. Wien. Med. Wchnschr., xii, 41, 42, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb, vol. 117, p. 174. Against Hermann's doctrine, that there is no constitutional or con- genital syphilis, but that the morbid phenomena are solely the result of mercurial medication, Faye objects that radesyge, which is in all pro- bability a derivative of syphilis, appears many years after birth in previ- ously healthy children, and is curable by mercury. This is so much the case'that the disease, which used to prevail endemically, is now becoming extirpated. Ilebra has investigated the various nfifections said to be endemic, which are known as Radesyge, Skarljevo, morbus Ditlimarsicus, Falcadina, Boala, Frenga, and Sibbens, and finds that all these terms have been applied to various syphilitic affections, or to lupus. They were supposed to be endemic because their origin was often obscure.NERVOUS SYSTEM. 69 NEUVOUS SYSTEM. Radcliffe, C. B., M.D.—A Course of Lectures on certain Disorders of the Brain and Nervous System, ivith special reference to the changes in opinion and practice which result from recent i-esearches in Phijsiologrj and Fathologxj. Lancet, Feb. i4tli, aSth; March 21st; April nth; May i6th, 23rd. The first four lectures are devoted to the consideration of the physiology of muscular action and sensation ; from these and the following we extract the principal propositions :—(I) As to the electrical phenomena which belong to muscle and motor nerve in the state of inaction.—(i) During the state gf inaction the side and ends of the fibres of living muscular and nervous tissue are (with certain exceptions, to be mentioned presently) in a state of electric antagonism, tbe sides presenting signs of positive electricity, the ends of negative. (2) During the state of inaction the sides and ends of the fibres of living muscular nervous tissue present difterent degrees of electric tension at different points, the sides being most posi- tive at the point midway between the two ends, the ends most negative at the point most distant from their edges. (3) Under certain circum- stances the natural electrical antagonism of the sides and ends of the fibres of living muscular and nervous tissue, during the state of inaction, is reversed, the sides becoming negative, the ends positive. This takes place a short time before the occurrence of rigor mortis in the muscles of warm-blooded animals and of certain reptiles, and in the brain and spinal cord of frogs. In nerves also it is found to result from various injuries, mechanical, thermal, chemical, and others. (4) During the state of inaction living muscular and nervous tissue is found to present unmistakable signs of current electricity, if two points of dissimilar elec- tricity or of dissimilar electric tension are included in the circuit of the galvanometer; but not so if the two points thus included are similar in electricity, or similar in electric tension. (5) During the state of inaction living animal tissues are found to be capable of acting upon the gold-leaf of an electi-oscope, and of furnishing other signs which show that the natural electricity of these tissues is characterised by high tension. (6) There is reason to believe that the primary electrical con- dition of living muscle and nerve during the state of inaction is that of statical electricity, and that the " muscular current" or " nerve current" which may pass from muscle or nerve during the state of inaction are only secondary phenomena. (7) The natural electricity which is present in living muscle or nerve during the state of inaction is altogether absent in rigor mortis. (8) It is possible that the elongated state of living muscle may be due to the presence of the natural electricity which belongs to living muscle in the state of inaction. (9) It is possible also that the contracted state of the muscle in rigor mortis may be due to the absence of the natural electricity which belongs to the muscle in the state of inaction. (II) As to the electrical phenomena which belong to muscle and motor nerve in the state of action.— (10) The natural electricity which is present in living muscle during the state of inaction is almost or altogether absent in the state of action. This is shown by an experiment of Du Bois Ileymond's, in which the needle of a galvanometer is much less deflected by the current pro-70 HEPORT on IMIACTIOAT, IIRDICINE. cceding from n contraoLlng muscle than from one at rest, (ii) The nfttunil electricity whicli is present in living motor nerve during tlie state of inaction is almost or altogether absent in llie state of action. This is shown by an experiment in wiiicli a portion of a frog's sciatic nerve is arranged within tiie circuit of a galvanometer, in consequence of which the needle is deflected, say to 60. Wlien spasm is set up, by poisoning the animal with strychnia, the needle returns towards o, say to 5, or nearer still. (12) The state of action in a muscle is accom- panied by the development of instantaneous currents of high-tension electricity. (13) The state of action in a motor nerve is accompanied by the development of similar currents. Experiments proving these pro- positions are performed by causing a long piece of nerve attached to muscle to rest upon the muscle or nerve of a similarly prepared limb, ■when contractions ensue in the first muscle on causing the second to act through stimulation of its nerve. (14) It is probable that the instan- taneous currents of electricity which are developed when a motor nerve passes from a state of inaction into that of action are analogous to the discharges of a torpedo. (15) It is possible that both ordinary muscular contraction and rigor mortis may both be dependent upon the disappear- ance of the natural electricity which is present in living muscle during the stage of inaction. (16) It is possible that the instantaneous electrical currents of high tension which are developed when muscle or motor nerve passes out of the state of inaction into that of action may produce contraction by disturbing and deranging that molecular constitution of the muscle without which the natural electricity of the muscle cannot exist. (17) There is reason to believe that the disappearance of natural electricity, when a living muscle passes from the state of inaction into that of action, and the contemporaneous development of instantaneous elec- trical currents of high tension, may stand to each other reciprocally in the relation of cause and effect, and that the correlation may furnish the means of harmonising the apparent contradictions in the discoveries of Matteucci and Du Bois Reymond with respect to the electrical phenomena of muscle during ordinary contraction. (HI) On the part which artifi- cial electricity has to play in the process of muscular motion.—(18) There is reason to believe that continuous electrical currents of low tension exercise a directly paralysing influence upon the part of a motor nerve which is included in the circuit. If the nerve of a rheoscopic limb be included in a galvanic circuit, it is impossible to produce contractions in the muscles by acting upon that part of the nerve which lies between the poles. Also if the spinal cord of a rabbit be included in the circuit of a voltaic battery, the part between the poles may be cut, pricked, torn, or even electrified, without giving rise either to pain or convulsion. So also the spasms produced by strychnia can be arrested in a frog by sub- jecting the spinal cord of the animal to the action of a continuous galvanic current. The same has been found true in a case of tetanus in the liuman subject. In all these instances the paralysing influence of the continuous current is quite irrespective of its direction. (19) There is reason to believe that instantaneous currents of high tension are the only forms of artificial electricity which have the power of producing muscular contraction. (20) There is reason to beheve that a motor nerve or muscle cannot be thrown into a state of action by artificial electricity71 NEUVOUS SYSTEJr. unless it retain a certain share of its natural electricity. (21) The natu- ral electricity which is present in living motor nerve or muscle during the stage of inaction is almost or altogether absent when the state of action is produced by means of artificial electricity. (22) When part of a motor nerve is included in a galvanic circuit, contraction may be pro- duced by acting upon the part of the nerve which lies between the muscle and the nearest galvanic pole, if it be the negative, but not if it be the positive. (23) When a part of a motor nerve is included in a galvanic circuit, the natural electricity of the parts of the nerve which lie beyond the circuit is increased in intensity on the side of the positive and dimi- nished in intensity on the side of the negative pole. (24) In the case where a muscle may be made to contract by acting upon the part of the nerve which lies between the part included in the galvanic circuit and the muscle, the negative pole is next the muscle, and the natural electricity of the part of the nerve acted on is diminished in intensity by the action of this pole; in the case where a muscle may not be made to contract by acting upon the part of the nerve which lies between the part included in the galvanic circuit and the muscle, the positive pole is next the muscle, and the natural electricity of the part of the nerve acted upon is increased in intensity by the action of this pole. (25) Before the time when the galvanic current has paralysed the part of a motor nerve which is in- cluded in the circuit, the muscle contracts with a moderate degree of force, both at the closing and opening of the circuit, and the order of the contraction is the same whether the positive or the negative pole be nearest to the muscle. (26) After the time when a galvanic current has paralysed the part of a motor nerve which is included in the circuit, the muscle contracts strongly—at the closing of the circuit, and not at the opening, if the negative pole be next the muscle ; and at the opening of the circuit, and not at the closing, if the positive pole be in this position. (27) When under the action of galvanism on its nerve, a muscle con- tracts at the closing of the circuit, and not at the opening, the negative pole is next the muscle, and the natural electricity of the part of the nerve which intervenes between the circuit and the muscle is diminished in intensity by the action of this pole ; and hence it follows that the pre- sence of contraction at the closing of th'e circuit is coincident with the departure of electricity from the part of the nerve acted upon, and that the absence of contraction at the opening of the circuit is coincident with the absence of electricity in the same locality. (28) When under the action of galvanism upon its nerve, a muscle contracts at the opening of the circuit, and not at the closing, the positive pole is next the muscle, and the natural electricity of that part of the nerve which intervenes between the circuit and the muscle is increased in intensity by the action of this pole ; and hence it follows that the absence of contraction at the (closing of the circuit is coincident with the addition of electricity to the part of the nerve acted upon, and that the presence of contraction at the opening of the circuit is coincident with tlie subtraction of the electricity which had been added to the part of the nerve acted upon during the time the circuit remained closed. (29) When a motor nerve has been acted upon by galvanism until the part which lies between the circuit and the muscle has, under the action of the negative pole, lost its natural eleg.73 ]!EP01!T ON T'lUCTTCAL MEDTCINK. tricity and its susceptibility to impressions, the action of the positive pole will in n great measure bring back wliat was lost; and as this loss and recovery may happen more than once, this fact will explain how it is that contractions may disappear and reappear, as they are found to do in the case which is known under the name of "voltaic alternatives." (30) There is reason to believe that the diifcrences in the order of contraction at the opening and closing of the galvanic circuit, of which mention has been made, and which have been ascribed to differences in the direction of the current along the nerve, that is, to the current being "direct" or centrifugal in the one case, and "inverse" or centripetal in the other, are in reality to be ascribed to differences in the position of the poles, that is, to the negative pole being next the muscle in the former case, and to the positive pole being in this position in the latter case. (IV) On the part which certain non-electrical agents have to play in the process of muscular motion—(a) as to the blood.—(31) The state of rigor mortis is coincident with stagnation and coagulation of the blood. (32) After the state of rigor mortis is fully established, the state of vital relaxation may be brought back by rencM'ing the movements of the blood within the muscle. Brown-Scquard injected defibrinated dog's blood into the brachial artery of a guillotined criminal's arm after it had passed into a state of rigor mortis, and found that the rigidity passed off very speedily, and that the muscles were kept in a state of true vital relaxation as long as the injection was continued. (33) It is difficult to account for the phenomenon of rigor mortis by supposing that the blood plays the part of a stimulus to a vital property of tonicity in muscle. (34) It is less difficult to explain the history of rigor mortis by supposing that the blood may help to counteract tliis form of contraction, by ministering to the maintenance of the natural electricity of the muscle. (35) The state of relaxation in living muscle is disturbed by convulsive contraction when the supply of arterial blood is suddenly arrested by hsemorrhage, or (36) by suffocation. (37) There is reason to believe that one way in which strychnia and brucia bring about convulsive muscular contraction is by producing a change in the circulation which is equivalent to loss of arterial blood. Dr. Harley shows that blood containing these drugs takes less oxygen from, and gives less CO., to, the air, than healthy blood. (38) It is difficult to believe that blood produces the state of convulsive con- traction by playing the part of a stimulus to a vital property of irrita- bility in muscle or nerve. (39) It is not difficult to believe that blood may play its part in the process of muscular motion through the instru- mentality of the natural electricity of the muscular and nervous systems, intensifying this natural electricity during the state of vital relaxation, failing to do so when muscular contraction is present, {f)) As to the part which nervous influence has to play in the process of muscular motion.— (40) There is reason to believe that rigor mortis is coincident with a state of things in which nervous influence is altogether wanting. (41) There is reason to believe that the state of relaxation is not disturbed by con- vulsive contraction so long as the muscles receive a due supply of nervous influence, and that this state is disturbed in this manner at the moment when this supply is interrupted. Kussmaul and Tenner's experiments are appealed to for proof of this and of the following proposition. (42)NERVOUS SYSTEM. 73 There is reason to believe that the state of muscular relaxation is not disturbed by contraction in cases where it may be supposed that the muscles receive an increased supply of nervous influence. (43) There is reason to believe that the state of muscular relaxation is more readily dis- turbed by contraction, and that the contraction itself is more powerful, when the muscles are receiving a diminished supply of nervous influence. An experiment by Dr. Brown-Sequard shows that the reflex contractions which may be produced in the hind leg of a frog by pinching the toes are capable of raising a heavier weiglit after the leg is liberated from the con- trol of the brain and medulla oblongata by dividing the spinal cord low down in the cervical region. The Aveights raised before the division in two frogs were 60 grammes; in twenty-four hours after, 150. (44) It is difficult to believe that nervous influence produces the state of convulsive contraction by playing the part of a stimulus to a vital property of irrita- bility in muscle or nerve. (45) There is reason to believe that the part which is played by nervous influence in the process of muscular motion is similar to that which is played by the natural electricity of the nervous system in the same process, and that the former agent may act through the instrumentality of the latter. (46) There is even reason to believe that the will avails itself of the aid of the natural electricity of the nervous system in playing the part it has to play in the process of mus- cular motion. Natural electricity, as shown by Du Bois Reymond, becomes latent in every act of voluntary muscular contraction. (47) When a muscle or motor nerve is thrown into a sta^e of action by me- chanical or chemical causes, or by heat or cold or light, there is reason to believe that this result is brought about through the instrumentality of the natural electricity of the muscle or nerve ; for it is a fact that the state of action thus produced is marked by disappearance of natural electricit}^ and by the contemporaneous development of instantaneous electrical cur- rents of high tension. (48) One conclusion which appears to arise out of the foregoing premises is, that living muscle, when left to itself, is kept in a state of 7-elaxation by the action of the natiu-al electricity of the muscle. (49) Another conclusion is, that muscle jmsses out of the state of relaxation into that of contraction when the attractive force which is inherent in the physical constitution of the muscular mole- cules is no longer antagonised by the action of the natural electricity of the muscle. (50) A third conclusion is, that the natural electricity which antagonises cotitraction is extinguished for the jnoment by the in- stantaneous electrical currents of high teiision {analogous to the discharges of the torpedo) which are developed when muscle or motor nerve passes from the state of inaction into that of action, and that ordinary muscular contraction is brought about in this way. (51) A fourth conclusion is, that the natural electricity which antagonises contraction is extinguished permanently at a certain time after death, and that the permanent con- traction of rigor mortis is brought about in this loay. (52) This theory of muscular motion is not contradicted by any peculiarity in the law of muscular contraction which does not admit of a physical explanation. (53) This theory of muscular motion is not contradicted by the fact that dead muscle is less strong and tough than living muscle, for this pheno- menon admits of a physical explanation. (54) The same may be said ofllEPOliT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 74 llie facts that nnisclc cnnnot net without interviils of rest, and that muscle may alternately contract and relax without change of volume and without loss of time. ('■,6) This theory of muscular motion is not contradicted hy any fact which renders it necessary to suppose that an increased dis- position to muscular contraction is connected with a state of exalted func- tional activity in a vital property of irritability in muscle or nerve, (ly) On the other hand, it would seem that this theory of muscular motion derives no small amount of confirmation from the fact that it provides a jihi/sical explanation for the state of muscular relaxation no less than for the state of muscular contraction, and brings ordinary muscular con- traction and rigor mortis under the dominion of one and the same law, (V) On rhythmical muscular motion.—(58) When the ventricles pass out of the state of systole into that of diastole, their muscular walls receive a fresh supply of blood through the coronary arteries. When the ventricles return from the state of diastole into that of systole, the blood which was injected into their walls at the previous systole has had time to lose its arterial properties ; and thus the blood would seem to play the same part in the movements of the ventricles as that which it plays in ordinary muscular motion, for it has been seen that the state of relaxation (the natural state of living muscle when left to itself) is not disturbed by contraction when arterial blood is supplied to the arterial system, and that the state of relaxation is disturbed in this manner when arterial blood is not supplied, or (what is the same thing) when venous blood is sup- plied in place of arterial. (59) When the ventricles pass out of the state of systole into that of diastole, their muscular coats would seem to iTceive a due supply of nervous influence from the rhythmic nervous centres of the heart, for at this time these nervous centres must be roused into a state of full functional activity by the arterial blood which has just been propelled into these coats through the coronary vessels by the ven- tricular systole; when the ventricles return from the state of diastole into that of systole, their muscular walls would seem to be deprived of the nervous influence which they had been receiving from the rhythmic nervous centres during the diastole, for at the time of the new systole the blood which had been propelled into the coats of the heart at the previous systole has had time to lose those arterial properties which are necessary to keep these nervous centres in a state of functional activity; and thus nervous influence would seem to play the same part in the movements of the ventricles which it plays in ordinary muscular action, for it has been seen that the state of muscular relaxation is not disturbed by contraction so long as the muscles receive a due supply of nervous influence, and that this state of relaxation is disturbed in this manner at the moment when the supply of nervous influence is interrupted. (60) When the auricles pass from the state of systole into that of diastole, the main reasons would appear to be—(i) that the circulation through the heart is arrested for the moment, first of all by the ventricles having t.ikeu in as much blood as they can take in at their diastole, and afterwards by the auriculo-ventriculai- valves becoming closed at the ventricular systole; and (a) that in consequence of the circulation being arrested in this manner, the auricles relax and fill out under the pressure of the stream of blood which is continually setting in from the valveless openings of the great veins:NlillVOUS SYSTEM. 75 I wlicn the tinricles return from the state of diftstole to that of systole, one main reason would seem to be that tlieir walls fall in, in consequence of the blood being, as it were, suddenly sucked away from their cavities l)y the diastole of the ventricles; and thus the explanation of the rhythm of the whole heart is included in the explanation of the ryhthm of the ventricles, for the movements of the auricles resolve themselves into simple conse- quences of the movements of the ventricles. (6i) The fact that the heart beats more quickly when the medulla oblongata or pneumogastric nerves are acted upon hy feeble electric shocks may show, not an excited state of functional activity in the rhythmic nervous centres of the heart, but the very opposite, for it has been seen (v. 43) that the disposition to muscular contraction is inversely related to the amount of nervous in- fluence supplied to the muscles. (62) The fact that the heart pauses in the state of diastole when the medulla oblongata or pneumogastrics are acted upon by stronq electric shocks is readily explained by supposing that these shocks have paralysed the rhythmic nervous centres of the heart, and so left the muscular walls of this organ free to yield—(;) to the action of their natural electricity (which action antagonises contraction so long as it continues), (a) to the pressure of the stream of blood which is continually setting in from the valveless openings of the great veins. (6,3) The fact that the muscular coats of the ordinary vessels pass into a state of contraction when the vaso-motor nerves are exposed to the action of feeble electric shocks is in strict harmony with, and leads to th'6 same conclusion as, the fact that the heart exhibits an increased disposition to contraction under analogous circumstances (v. 61). (64) The fact that the muscular coats of the ordinary vessels pass into a state of relaxation ■when tlie vaso-motor nerves ai'e exposed to the action of strong electric shocks would also seem to be in strict harmony with, and to lead to the same conclusion as, the fact that the heai't pauses in the state of diastole under the same circumstances. (65) The fact that the muscular coats of the ordinary vessels pass into a state of relaxation when their special nerves are divided is also in harmony with the fact last mentioned, for it can be of no essential moment whether these coats be paralysed by the action of electricity upon their nerves, or by dividing these nerves. (66) The fact that a heart, or the fragment of a heart, may go on beating in the air after it is out of the body need lead to no different conclusion respect- ing the action of the heart; for in this case the explanation may be either— (i) that air which is not changed by the respiration of the tissues may play the part of arterial blood in its action upon these tissues, and that air which is changed by this process may play the part of venous blood; or else (2) that the air may act as it would seem to act in the production of the respiratory movements of the chest, an action to which further reference will have to be made presently. (67) Nor do the facts which illustrate the action of the blood upon the muscular coats of the ordinary vessels reflect any doubt upon the conclusions wiiich may be drawn re- specting the action of the heart, for these facts would seem to show that these coats do not contract when they are acted upon by arterial blood, and that they do contract when they are directly or indirectly deprived of this action. (68) The fact that the peristaltic movements of the alimentary canal are increased when the admission of blood to its coats is preventedKKPOllT ON PnACTICAL MEDICINE. 7G by pressing upon tlic nbilominal aorta, and diminished when tlie blood resumes its course in them on removal of the pressure, taUies well with the conclusions which have been drawn respecting the modus operandi of blood in muscular motion; and so also does the companion fact that these peristaltic movements are increased when the venous blood is pre- vented from escaping from the coats of the alimentary canal by pressing upon the vena porta, and diminished when the removal of this pressure allows the vessels of these parts at once to rid themselves of black blood, and to receive a new supply of red blood. (69) The fact that the peri- staltic movements of the alimentary canal are quickened by passing wea/c electric shocks through the spinal cord or great sympathetic is in strict harmony with, and leads to the same conclusion as, the fact that the heart and the ordinary vessels exhibit an increased disposition to contraction under analogous circumstances (v. 61 and 6.3). (70) The fact that the peristaltic movements are arrested in the state which is opposed to con- traction by passing strong electric sliocks through the spinal cord or great sympathetic is in strict harmony with, and leads to the same conclusion as, the fact that the heart and the ordinary vessels pass into a state of re- laxation under analogous circumstances (v. 62 and 64). (71) When the thoracic muscles pass out of the state of relaxation in which they are during expiration into the state of contraction in which they are during inspiration, what appears to happen is this—that the oxygen of the in- spired air has made an "impression" upon the pneumogastic and other afferent nerves, and that this impression has brought about contraction through the instrumentality of the natural electricity of the nervous and muscular systems in the way already pointed out, (v. 47): when the in- spiratory contractions come to an end, what appears to happen is this— that the disappearance of the oxygen of the air in the process of respira- tion has removed the cause of the impression which led to the contractions, and so left the muscles free to return to their natural state of relaxation. In these three forms of rhythmical muscular motion, therefore, there is nothing to contradict, and much to confirm, the previous conclusions re- specting ordinary muscular motion. In a word, there is every reason to believe that the theory which is applicable to ordinary muscular motion, is also applicable to rhythmical muscular action, and that without any fresh assumption it will even give an insight into the mystery of the rhythm itself. (72) In the case of a sentient as of a motor nerve, the nerve loses electricity when it passes from the state of inaction into that of action. When a rheoscopic limb covered with its skin has its nerve connected with the circuit of a galvanometer, the deflexion of the needle which is pro- duced by the nerve current is much diminished by bringing the limb into contact with hot water. (73) In an electrical point of view, the action of a sentient nerve which produces sensation is in every respect the same as the action of a motor nerve which produces muscular contraction. Experiment shows that pain and convulsion are produced by the same electrical con- ditions—they come together and go together. (74) There is reason to believe that the same conclusionsare necessary with respect to the action of a sentient nerve in sensation as those which are necessary with respect to the action of a motor nerve in the production of muscular contraction. The action of a sentient nerve may have to be explained, not by assuming that a77 NERVOUS SYSTEM. vital property of sensibility has been stimulated into a state of functional activity, but by supposing—(i) that the "impression" which issues in sensation involves an equivalent expenditure of natural electricity in the sentient nerve]; (2) that this expenditure gives rise to the development in and near tlie nerve of instantaneous electrical currents of high tension, analogous to the discharges of tiie torpedo ; and (3) that the instantaneous currents or discharges which are developed in the neighbourhood of that part of the nerve which lies within the sensorium will give rise to sensa- tion if any sensorial ganglionic cells happen to come within their range of action. Radclifife then proceeds to state, in the way of propositions, certain facts and views relating to convulsion, tremor, spasm, paralysis of certain kinds, pain, and sensations analogous to pain. He seeks to ascertain whether these disorders are to be treated as the result of exalted vital action or the reverse. (75) The epileptic and epilepti- form paroxysm is not unfrequently preceded by signs of defective re- spiration. (76) It is also usually accompanied by a state of unmis- takable suffocation. (77) The convulsion of hysteria or chorea is associ- ated with a state of very defective respiration. (78) The condition of the respiration during convulsion is one which supports the notion that the convulsion is connected with depressed and not with exalted vital action. (79) In the chronic forms of convulsive disorder the inter- paroxysmal condition is usually marked by evident signs of a feeble circula- tion. (80) The epileptic and epileptiform attack is usually, if not invariably, preceded by signs of failure in the circulation, as cadaveric pallor of the countenance, feeble pulse at the wrist. (81) In the fully developed paroxysm the jDulse is sometimes roused to a considerable degree of activity, not because the arteries are then receiving a largely increased supply of rec? blood, but because they are then labouring under a load of black blood, as they are found to labour under during suffocation. In proof of this he appeals toReid'sand Draper's experiments,showing thatduring suffo- cation the pressure is increased in the arteries, and that the blood circu- lating in them is black. (8a) Convulsion is never coincident with a state of active febrile excitement of the circulation. (83) The convulsion which may attend upon the close of Bright's disease is connected with a pale and watery condition of the blood, and with unmistakable signs of great vascular debility, as well as with suspicions of ursemic poisoning. (84) Epileptiform convulsion is a direct consequence of sudden and copious loss of blood. (85, 86) The signs of a weak or jaded brain are scarcely ever absent in persons who are hable to epileptic and other chronic forms of convulsive disorder. (87) All signs of mental life are abolished, or on the point of being abolished, during the paroxysm of convulsion. (88) Convulsion must not be looked on as a symptom of active inflammation of the brain or its membranes. It seems, indeed, to be a constant rule that the hot stage of active inflammation of the brain or of its membranes is attended, not by convulsion, but by acute delirium. In the more passive forms of this inflammation convulsion is a much more frequent pheno- menon than in the acute forms, audit is not so easy to determine the rela- tions of the convulsion to the inflammation ; but, so far as Radcliffe can make out, convulsion is altogether incompatible with the presence of the periods of vascular reaction, even though these periods be but faintlyHEPOllT OX PEACTICAL MEDICI.VE. 78 mnrlced. (89) Convulsion must not be looked upon na a symptom of a congested condition of tlie cerebral veins. Proof of this is afforded by Kusninul and Tenner's experiments. (90) The peculiar condition of tiie nervous system which is known under the lumie of irritation, and whicli in the majority of cases has n great deal to do with the production of con- vulsion, is in no sense the equivalent of inflammation. The morbid con- dition of the nervous system which is known under the name of irritation may be attended by various definite symptoms, and followed by various definite results. According as it may'happen to affect the parts of the nervous system which minister to ordinary muscular movements, to com- mon or special sensation, or to vascular movements, it may be attended by tremor, convulsion, or spasm, by morbid sensation of various kinds, or by n contracted condition of the vessels. According as it may happen to have affected one or other of the parts of the nervous system which have been named, it may be followed by paralysis of the ordinary mus- cular movements, by anaesthesia or some analogous condition of special sensation, or by congestion and inflammation. Moreover, it may be at- tended by partial or general delirium, and followed by partial or general stupor or coma, if its seat happen to be in the parts of the nervous system which minister to volition and reason. Nor is it difficult to see how it should be thus attended and thus followed. The circumstances which give rise to the state of irritation in some part of the nervous system, and which favour the development of this state, are circumstances which appear to produce the revei'sal of the natural electrical relations of the exterior and interior of the nerve-fibres at the scat of irritation. It has been seen (3) that the natural electrical relations of the exterior and interior of the nerve may be reversed under circumstances which may give rise to the state of irritation in a nerve or nerve centre, and which favour the development of this state; for nothing is more certain than that mechanical injuries to a nerve or nerve centre may give rise to a state of irritation in these parts, and that a depressed condition of the vital powers generally is favorable to the deve- lopment of this morbid state. And thus there is no difficulty in supposing that the natural electrical relations of the exterior and interior of the nerve-fibres may be reversed at the seat of irritation. Now, in the case where the natural electrical relations of the exterior and interior of the nerve-fibres are preserved, all parts of the exterior of the fibres are electri- fied positively and all parts of the interior negatively, and the electric condition of the exterior and interior appears to be one of static tension so long as the nerve-fibre remains in a state of inaction (v. 6), and this appears to be the case because all parts of the exterior are electrified posi- tively and all parts of the interior are electrified negatively, for it is a law of electricity that parts electrified with similar electricity repel each other. Nor is this condition of static tension in the exterior and in the interior of the nerve-fibres neutralized by a contrary action beticeen the exterior and the interior; for there is something in the constitution of the fibres, be that what it may, which keeps the exterior and interior in opposite electric conditions, and prevents their opposite electricities from combining and neutralizing each other. But in the case where the natu- ral electrical relations of the exterior and interior are reversed in a certain part of a nerve-fibre, instead of all parts of the exterior being electrified79 NERVOUS SYSTEM. I positively and all parts of the interior negatively, some part of the exte- rior is electrified negatively and some part of the interior positively ; and the result is that there must be a continual combination and disappear- ance of electricity in the exterior and in the interior between the parts of the fibre in which the natural electrical relations of the interior and exte- rior are preserved and the part in which these relations are reversed. The result, that is to say, is one in which the nerve must lose electricity as long as this reversal continues, for itis alaw of electricity that opposite electricities combine and neutralize each other, if there be nothing to prevent them yielding to their natural affinities. In other words, the result of the reversal must be to throw the nerve from the state of inaction into that of action, for it has been seen (v. ii) that a nerve loses electricity when this takes place. On this view Radcliffe thinks there is no difficulty in understanding how, according as its seat may be in ordinary motor nerves or ganglia, in sensory nerves or ganglia, in the cerebral hemi- spheres, or in vaso-motor nerves or ganglia, the "irritation" may be attended by morbid contractions of the common muscles, by morbid sen- sations of various kinds, by morbid mental movements, or by morbid con- tractions of the blood-vessels; and how, according as its seat may have been in one or other of those parts of the nervous system which have just been mentioned, the irritation may end by paralysing one or other of those parts, and by producing in this manner paralysis of the ordinary muscles, or anaesthesia and conditions allied to it, or partial and general stupor and coma, or congestion and inflammation. The latter Radcliffe seems to derive from a state of exhaustion and paresis of the vaso-motor nerves and ganglia, induced by the previous irritation. (93) The general conclusion to be deduced from the consideration of the condition of the respiration and circulation and innervation during convulsion is this — that the pathology of convulsion is as much in harmony with the view of muscular motion set forth in these lectures as it is out of harmony with the current view of the subject—that, in fact, convulsion is the sign of depressed and not of exalted vital action. (94) The diet in many cases of chronic convulsive disorder ought to contain somewhat more than an average quantity of oily and fatty matters, and somewhat less than an average quantity of lean meat. Radcliffe fears that a largely meat diet is likely to generate a semi-gouty condition. (95) There is reason to believe that gymnastic exercises are very beneficial in the great majority of chronic convulsive cases. In ir.ore than one case the patient has stated that an impending attack has been warded off by exercise of this kind, which acts beneficially on the respiration as well as on the other functions. (96) The action of cod-liver oil is beneficial in the great majority of cases of chronic convulsive disorder, and so also is that of phosphorus, both being im- portant constituents of nervous tissue. The ethereal tincture of phos- phorus is the form he prefers, of which he gives about u^v mixed with sulphuric ether, now and then, especially when there seems to be need for a stimulant. (98) Radcliffe doubts the suitableness of belladonna as a remedy in many cases of epilepsy and other forms of chronic convulsive disorder, chiefly, as it seems, because he regards it as producing an anae- mic condition of the brain. Opium, on the contrary (99), he looks on as a suitable remedy in some cases, because it produces an opposite effect.80 UEPOllT ON PllACXICAL MEDICINK. (100) lie doubts the efficacy of zinc in epilepsy and in epileptoid cases, (101) Radchllc believes that alcoholic sliuiulanta are the most trustworthy antispasmodics in the prevention and treatment of convulsion. Experi- cuce convinces him that this is the case in epilepsy, hysteria, and chorea. (103) There is reason to believe that bloodletting, in one form or another^ may be permitted in certain cases of convulsion, or where apoplectic extra- vasation is imminent from the gorged state of the cerebral veins. (10 j) Therapeutically as well as pathologically, there is every reason to believe that the means to be employed in the treatment of convulsion are those which exalt, not those which depress, vital action. (104) The condition .of the respiration in tremor is one which warrants the belief that this dis- order is connected with depressed and not with exalted vital power. (105, 106) The same is true of the circulation and the innervation. (108) The means to be employed in the treatment of tremor are those which exalt vital energy in general, and nervous tone in particular. (112) llespecting spasm also the conclusion is the same as that which has been drawn respecting convulsion and tremor, namely, this—that the morbid muscular contraction is connected with a deficient manifestation of vital power in general, and of nerve power in particular, the great func- tions of circulation, respiration, and innervation, being depressed rather tlian exalted. It would seem that the pathology of spasm, no less than that of convulsion and tremor, is as much in harmony with the views of the physiology of muscular motion which are set forth in these lectures as it is at variance with current views on this subject. It would seem, in fact, that the only key to the pathology is that which is supplied by the physio- logical premises, and that these physiological premises are confirmed and established by the pathology. In the pathology and in the physiology of muscular motion it appears to be one and the same story throughout. As to the treatment of spasm, RadclifTe expresses his opinion that the means to be employed are those which exalt vital enei'gy in general and nervous energy in particular. (114) Instead of being connected with a state of febrile or inflammatory excitement, there is reason to believe that pain is connected with a depi-essed state of the circulation. Radcliffe endeavours to substantiate this by reference to the processes of gout, rheumatic fever, smallpox, and dislocation, in which he makes out that the pains disappear in proportion as the inflammatory phenomena become developed. (115) The condition of the respiration during pain sheds no certain light upon the pathology of pain. (ii6) Instead of being connected with an excited condition of the function of innervation, there is reason to believe that pain is connected with a depressed condition of this function. Radcliffe illustrates this from the phenomena of neuralgia, as observed in his own person, and from a case of meningitis, in which agonising pain was suc- ceeded by fierce delirium. He concludes that the pathology of pain agrees in all essential particulars with the pathology of tremor, convulsion, and spasm, and the process on which it depends implies vital exhaustion, and not vital stimulation. He advocates the treatment of all these disorders by supplying the weak nervous system with appropriate nutrients, such as oily articles of food and medicine, with phosphorus in various forms; by upholding and rousing the vital powers in general, and the nerve power in particular ; by a stimulant plan of treatment, in which alcoholic drinks81 NERVOUS SYSTEM. and ethers and phosphorus in suitable doses figure most conspicuously. He discountenances the use of sedatives, as opium or belladonna. Cameker.— On Chronic Spinal Meningitis and Mijelitis. Wurtemb. Corr. Bl., xxxii, 1S62. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. 167. Both diseases often"occur together, but one or other predominates. In chronic meningitis there are pains, at first extending round the body, ordi- narily taken for rheumatic, with a feeling of tension and stiffness in the neck and pains in the back. The stiffness and pains are usually not very troublesome, and therefore are often not mentioned by the patient; the pains are sometimes only felt on pressure, not during movements, and do not occur spontaneously. It is only when there is caries of the vertebrae that they attain to great severity. Next ensue morbid sensations in the lower limbs, which soon also become weary and weak, and their tempera- ture falls. Paralysis soon follows, first appearing as constipation. The bladder becomes involved sooner or later, sometimes first in its sphincter, sometimes in its detrusor. The principal symptom of meningitis is, however, the palsy of the limbs, which constantly extends from below upwards, and even in the case where the inflammation has its seat in the upper part of the cord always affects the legs more severely than the arms. As the paralysis increases, more or less marked twitchings occur in the palsied muscles. The skin loses more and more its sensibility, but becomes at intervals the seat of very painful hypersesthesias. Bed-sores form early, occasioned partly by the ansesthesia, partly by the unaltered position and the weakening of the skin, produced by the involuntary dis- charge of the excretions. The course of the disease is steadily progressive, and almost inevitably fatal. The acute form of the disease is distinguished from the chronic by its sudden setting in with pyrexia, by the severe dorsal pains, and the rapid progress of the symptoms. Chronic myelitis is cha- racterised by the irregularity of its course, the alternations of improvement and deterioration ; by its ordinary seat in the upper parts of the cord, and its extending downwards ; by the greater amount of paralysis of the upper compared with that of the lower extremities ; by the contractions of the paralysed limbs, which in meningitis usually lie flaccid and extended; by the incomplete palsy of the muscles of respiration, and the difficulty of breathing and palpitation of the heart occasioned thereby. Leyden.—On Gray Degeneration of the Spinal Cord. Deutsche Klinik, 13, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb,, vol. 119, p. 167. Leyden describes three varieties of this affection. The first appears in cii'cumscribed patches. The second attacks the whole extent of separate columns of the cord. The third is secondary. Cruveilhier described the first originally, and it was afterwards briefly noticed by Rokitansky. It is characterised by grayish-red patches of translucent substance, with numerous vascular ramifications. These consist of a fibrous connective tissue, with many small round cells, which are partly grouped together and partly disposed around the vessels. The latter are surrounded by an extraordinarily thick outer coat, containing numerous young nuclei and much fat. The nervous tissue is almost quite destroyed, only a few fibres empty of contents, and a few ganglion-cells remain. The diseased 682 BJCPOUT ON PllACTICAL MKDIClNJi. parts are abruptly separated from (lie siirroundinp, and are alike in the cord and in the brain. The original tissue is exactly replaced by the new formed connective tissue, which causes atrophy of the nerve elemenls. No diminution or increase of the orip;inal size takes place. The clinical phenomena corresponding to the morbid changes have nothing character- istic. The second form mostly affects the posterior columns, and is found pretty constantly in the disorder termed Ataxic progressive, as proved by numerous autopsies. Besides the connective tissue, which is present in large amount, there is usually a shrinking and wasting of the posterior columns, but no growth of interstitial nuclei. Hence it is doubtful whether the change consists in a new formation of fibroid tissue, or merely in an atrophic wasting of the contents of the nerve-fibres. Together with the fibroid tissue, numerous corpora amylacea are metwitii, and there is often a thickening and fatty degeneration of the walls of the vessels. The third form has been specially described by Tiirk; it occurred together with foci of disease in the brain, from whence degene- rated tracts could be traced in a descending direction through the spinal cord. In the altered parts there was found a fine-fibred, reticular tissue, ■with scanty, roundish nuclei imbedded in it, not presenting the appear- ance of active growth. The nerve-fibres were atrophied, there were no corpora amylacea, the outer coat of the vessels was scarcely thickened or altered. This form is rare. Westphal, 0.— On Tales Borsalis and Progressive General Paralysis. Allg. Ztschr. f. Psychiat., xx, p. i, 1863. From careful examination of recent cases, Westphal finds that in a certain number dragging pains, in the legs chiefly, had preceeded or accompanied the commencement of paralysis and mental weakness ; and that in these, at the same time, the power of standing and walking, as far as it still existed, became materially less when the eyes were closed, or was even totally lost, the patients, when they made the attempt, falling down on the spot. From his cases the author comes to the following conclusions:— (i) There is an affection of the spinal cord (gray degeneration of the posterior columns), which anatomically is quite the same as that which exists in tabes dorsalis, and which, in its subsequent course, leads to dis- order of vision. (2) In general, this resembles the progressive general paralysis of the insane, both in the kind of delirium and of the paralytic symptoms, as also in the emaciation. (3) It is, however, distinguished from the latter by the circumstance that the patients, when they close their eyes, are unable to stand or walk without tumbling down, and that the disorder of articulation belonging to general paralysis is quite want- ing. (4) The palsy of the bladder and of the extremities precedes for a long time the mental derangement (contrary to what occurs in the pro- gressive paralysis of the insane). (5) No disease of the cerebral substance analogous to the gray degeneration of the columns of the spinal cord was discoverable. The latter extends pretty uniformly over the whole extent of the posterior columns as far as the floor of the fourth ventricle, where it only occurred in patches. The nature of the cerebral disease is unknown, but appears to be accompanied by hydrocephalus internus.83 NEllVOUS SYSTEM. S.vpi'EY. —Gaz. des Hopit., 8, 1863. Relates the result of an inspection of the body of a man, set. from forty to forty-five, who died with the symptoms of ataxic locomotrice progressive. There was no morbid change in tlie brain or cord, except in the lumbar portion of the latter. The posterior columns here were of a grayish colour, tlie posterior roots were of a grayish red, much thinned, and resembling bundles of vessels, except at their entrance into the cord, where they n-ere flattened. The anterior roofs and columns were normal. In the grayish parts the nerve-fibres were found partly quite devoid of their contents, partly containing them only here and there, partly quite filled with them. Frieuiucii, N.—On Degenerative Atrophy of the Posterior Spinal Columns. Virchow's Archiv, xxvi, p. 391, p. 433 ; xxvii, p. i. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 184. The paper contains an account of six cases having the symptoms of ataxie locomotrice progressive or tabes dorsalis. Three proved fatal from typhoid fever. In these the pia mater all along the posterior columns was opaque and thickened, adherent to the cord and to the dura mater by narrow bands. The ligament, denticulat. was similarly affected as well as the pia of the lateral regions of the cord. The posterior columns were atrophied as high up as the lower half of the fossa rhom- boidalis ; they had a translucent grayish appearance, and were in two cases firmer than natural. The change was most advanced in the lumbar region, where it had extended to the lateral tracts. The posterior median fissure was obliterated. The posterior roots were thin, wasted, and stiffish ; the anterior normal. In the posterior the continuity of fibres was not interrupted, there was no fatty degeneration ; the axis-cylinders were preserved, but the medulla was coagulated, and there was much wavy connective tissue between the fibi'es. The hypoglossal nerves were in the same state, but there were also numerous corpora amylacea in the connective tissue. Friedreich refers these changes to a chronic septo- meningitis. The influence of hereditary tendency is remarkable. The six cases belonged to two families; their fathers were drunkards, and had certainly begotten their children while intoxicated. Two were male, four female. The duration of the disease varied from nine to twenty years. All treatment was unavailing. Friedrich infers from his cases that the posterior columns do not conduct sensory impressions, but are concerned in the co-ordination of movements ; and further, as the lower limbs were not materially wasted, that the centres regulating their nutrition cannot be intimately connected with the posterior columns, as well as that the mere non-exercise of the muscles (which extended in these cases overyears) cannot be essential to atrophy. Marotte and Trousseau.—0« Ataxie Locomotrice Progressive. L'Union, 67, 88, 89, 1862, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 33. In Trousseau's case the disease had lasted thirteen years. The lower extremities alone were affected, the patient could not stand, sensation in both limbs was very dull. The cord in the lumbar region was slightly atrophied, the posterior columns grayish, normally firm. The posteriorREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 84 roots were very atrophied, tlie anterior normal ; the former were of a reddish-gray colour, ribbon-like, most of their fibres empty. The patient was fifty-five years old. Marotte's ])atient was forty-seven years old, and had siiflered from the disease fifteen years. lie died in an extreme state of marasmus. To the end of his life he had electric darting pains and frequent shocks or starts in the limbs, but no loss of sensation in any part. At the autopsy the dura mater of the cord was found much injected posteriorly, and the posterior surface of the arachnoid showed much plastic exudation, with dilated vessels. The cord itself was atro- phied, decreasing in size from above downwards; the posterior surface of u translucent yellow, especially at the lower parts. The posterior roots, especially the lower, were markedly gray, thin, soft, and very hypcraimic, the corresponding anterior ones similarly but much less altered. The individual nerve-fibres of the posterior roots of the lumbar region were almost all degenerated, and those of the upper parts much less so ; the anterior upper ones not at all, the anterior lower ones but little. The posterior columns, as far as the posterior horns, M'ere yellow and gela- tinous, and not easily distinguishable from the latter. The gray sub- stance up to the fourth ventricle and the corpora quadrig. was extremely hypersemic, and reddish ; the autero-lateral columns very vascular, but otherwise normal; the small cells of the gray matter in the lumbar region were destroyed, those of the anterior horns and in the centre of the medulla distinguishable, but surrounded by pigment. Numerous amyloid corpuscles were present in the medullary substance, which iu most parts was diseased. The connective tissue was not hypertrophied. ViDAL (Gaz. des Hopit., 127, 1862).—Duquet (L'Union, 122, 1862).— Hebschell (Bull, de Therap., Ixiii, Oct., 1862). Record cases of Ataxie locomotrice progressive successfully treated by nitrate of silver. Vidal's patient was set. 45, addicted to sexual excess. The lower extremities alone were affected. He had constant hyperses- thesia of the skin, with diminished tactile sensibility; loss of muscular sensibility, without impairment of muscular power; paralysis of the sphincter aui and of the virile power. The movements of his legs were unsteady and not co-ordinated; he could not walk if his eyes were closed. After taking Argenti Nitr. in daily doses of one to two thirds of a grain for about two months, he recovered to a great extent. Duguet's patient was a female, set. 39, wno had been much weakened by frequent losses of blood, and became very anemic. Epileptic attacks ensued, and recurred several times. It was now found that slie had the symptoms of Ataxie loc. progr., but limited to the right arm and leg. The movements of both these limbs were quite un-coordinated ; tlie patient was quite unable to walk. The tactile sensibility of the whole right half of the body was very dull, but that of temperature was normal; electric sensi- bility and contractility were not impaired. Amblyopia existed, and the mental faculties were weakened. After three months' treatment with nitrate of silver the patient had in great measure recovered the use of the right arm and leg, her memory and speech had much improved, only the vision was in nearly the same state. Herscheli's patient was a rope- maker, fet. 47, who was almost completely amaurotic, had nearly lostXEKVOrS SYSTR^^r. 85 the power of motion aiul sensation in his lower limbs, and to some extent also in the npper. He was completely restored after about two months' treatment. Remak.—On Tabes Borsalis. Deutsche Klinik, 49, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 173. Remak distinguishes different forms of the disease, according to its seat. Tabes cervicalis is characterised by eccentric pains, small immov- able pupils, and the long duration of the motor disorders. The primary change is a derangement of the nutrition of the nerve-cells; myelitis occurs secondarily. Tabes lumbalis is sometimes an independent affec- tion, sometimes united with a unilateral lumbo-sacral neuritis. Rheu- matic and arthritic influences give rise to deranged circulation in the cord, ■which is the fundamental evil. In tabes dorsalis the power of walking and the functions of the urinary and genital organs and of the rectum are more evidently impaired, and the excentric pains are very severe. Tabes basalis usually commences with deranged action of the muscles of the eye, and may be therefore confounded with cerebral tumour. Disorders of vision and anaesthesia and paresis of the hands ensue at a later date. Tabes cerebelli is very rare, and is characterised by extreme unsteadiness of gait as almost its only symptom, and some- times by amblyopia. Pain on pressure over the spinous processes occurs only in tabes lumbo-dorsalis, and is a favorable prognostic sign, as indicating a still existing myelitis. All forms of tabes may originate in syphilis. The constant galvanic current is the most effectual remedy, and is most available when myelitis is actually present. When there has been primary degeneration of the nerve-cells, when the disorder is com- plicated with the results of spinal meningitis and growths of connective tissue, galvanism is contra-indicated. It is more successful in tabes dorsalis and lumbalis than in the other forms. The induced current is injurious. Remak has not found nitrate of silver to be of much efficacy. IsNARD.—On Ataxic Locomotrice Progressive. L'Union, 131, 134, [35, 137, 141, 142, 1862. Isnard regards the disorder as a neurosis—(i) because it alternates in the same family with other nerve disorders; (2) because all its symptoms are functional derangements of the nervous system ; and (3) because all the remedies which have hitherto been found most useful are those which are advantageous in other neuroses. The result of autopsies are not a valid counter-argument, for on the one hand there are cases in which no morbid change has been found, and on the other the presence of anato- mical alteration does not exclude the idea of a neurosis. The want of co- ordmation in the movements is not the result of a local disease in the cord affecting the seat of co-ordination (probably the posterior columns and the gray substance), but of disturbances of the harmonic action of individual parts of the cord together. This consists, according to Isnard, in a dissimilar derangement of the muscular sensibility. So'long as the muscular sensibility is only uniformly too weak or wholly absent, co- ordination of the movements is not lost, though in the last case the aid of vision may be necessary. If, however, the sensibility is too delicate inIIKPOUT ON PltACTfCAL SIKDICINK. so some parts and too dull in others, then there is disharmony In the move- ments, which the sense of vision can only partially correct. Benedikt, M.—On Quasi-paralytic disorders of Mohility, wilhonf proper Paralysis. Wien. Med. W'chnschr., xii, 44—48, 1862. Scimiidl's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 173. Benedikt enumerates as the causes of these disorders—(i) alterations of the sensibility; (2) disorders of the equilibrium of antagonist groups of muscles ; (3) loss of the power of localizing movements ; (4) want of proportion between the normal volitional stimulus and the excitability and conducting power of different parts of the nervous system ; and (5) general disturbance of the functions of the brain, without complete loss of any of them. With regard to the affection Ataxic locomotrice, he views it as made up of two factors, vi//., loss of muscular consciousness (in acting) and loss of appropriate co-ordination of the movements. Ataxia may, how- ever, exist without the loss of muscular consciousness or of cutaneous sensibility. Defective co-ordination, he remarks, is not a rare symptom. It is met with in many partial paralyses, and is produced by the volitional stimulus acting unduly on the antagonist muscles, when those which should execute a movement are incapable of contracting properly. The antagonist muscles are always set in play to a certain extent, for the pur- pose of regulating the action of the others. To produce ataxia, it is by no means necessary that one whole group of muscles should be paralysed completely. Any affection which impairs the functional excitability of the central nervous apparatus may produce ataxia, and so may any dis- order of the conducting nerves, or of their terminal extremities at the periphery, provided they are non-uniformly affected. Static spasms (v. Romberg, vol, ii, p. 156) afford most striking instances of cerebral ataxia, while peripheric is very common in paretic conditions of individual muscles of the eye. Spinal ataxia is characteristic of tabes dorsalis. Empis.—Gaz. des Hopit,, 73, 77, 1862, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol, 117, p. 32. Relates a case of progressive paralysis of the lips, tongue, and palate, in which the orbicularis oris and all the muscles supplied by the facial nerve maintained their electric contractility completely. Reynolds, J. Russell, records ('Lancet,' July 11th), a case of incipient wasting palsy, cured by strychnia, gr, ^-^ ter die. The man, £et. thirty, had fallen, while skating, on the back of his head, and some weeks after he suffered with impaired vision of the left eye, dilatation of the left pupil, and constant pain in the head. These symp- toms ceased, but recurred again for a time, and have always yielded rapidly to treatment. About nine or ten months from the date of the accident the muscles of the left upper arm and shoulder began to waste. The interrupted current was of marked benefit in improving the bulk and nutrition of the muscles; the continuous w^as of no avail. Reynolds deduces from the detailed history of the case the following conclusions :-— Since the loss of power did not depend solely upon the impaired nutri- tion of the muscles, and the muscular tissue was not primarily affected, it may be inferred—(i) That neither the muscular tissue nor the ganglionicNEEVOUS SYSTEM. 87 system of nerves was the stnrling-point of morbid change. As muscular and cutaneous sensibility and electric contractility Avere persistent, and they, with the nutrition, speedily became under treatment either normal or e.xaggerated, while voluntary power remained in abeyance, it may be presunTed, (2) That the function of the nerve-trunks was not destroyed, and that the seat of wasting palsy was not in them. Since the palsy was preceded, and has been followed, by signs of disturbance in the cerebral functions, it is to be inferred—(3) that the affection had its remote orio-in in the injury inflicted on the head. But as there was marked diminution of electrjc contractility and sensibility and of nutrition, and, moreover, as the paralysis was in the upper portion of the affected limb, it may be presumed—(4) that loss of cerebral function was not the sole cause of the symptoms. Since the nutrition, contractility, and sensibility were diminished, but not lost, while voluntary power was entirely abolished, it may be concluded—(5) that the central functions of the medulla spinahs were j)ro tanto diminished, and its conducting property was in abeyance, and that in the impaired nutrition of that organ we must seek for the essential fact in wasting palsy. BoucuuT. —J. de Med. et de Chir. pratiq., Aug., 1863. Eecommends the application, several times repeated, of Tinct. lodinii to parts affected with neuralgia. In some cases, when this fails, the addition of morphia (in the proportion of 5ss of Morphise Sulph. to 3SS of the tincture) gives very good results. GuuBER.—On Inflammation of the Brain from Otitis, without Caries. Wochenbl. d. Aerzte in Wien., Nos. 11 and 25. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. ist. Gruber met with a case in which inflammation from external injury arose within the right ear (which had previously been quite healthy), and extended to the right transverse sinus, and thence by means of the inferior cerebellar veins to the cerebellum. An acute pleurisy, with purulent exu- dation, terminated the patient's life. The most careful examination of the temporal bone and the ossicula failed to detect the slightest trace of caries. This case shows the importance of early derivative measures, as repeated leeching, the cautery, &c., as also the securing a sufficiently large opening in the membrana tympani for the discharge of the pus. In by far the great majority of cases the sinus transversus is the means of propagation, and only seldom one of the sinus petrosi. This can only arise from the anatomical relations of the sinuses to the cells of the mastoid process ; and to elucidate this, Gruber has examined numerous healthy ears, and has found, as a general rule, that the entrance to the cells is not in the posterior wall of the cavity of the tympanum, but in the posterior section of its internal wall. There is usually found an aperture from one to three lines long, which is prolonged into a canal, that extends to the series of cells in contact with the transverse sinus. Sometimes there is also a communi- cation with these cells through the posterior wall of the tympanum. In the new-born infant the few large cells of the process are but a continuation of the tympanum, and are separated from the sinus by a pretty thick wall of spongy bone. This wall, in proportion as the nurabcfIIEPOIIT ON I'HACTICAL jikdicxne. 88 of cells of the process increases, becomes tliinner, and is thinnest at the period which elapses between the cessation of the cellular formation and the recommencement of their ossification. It is sometimes partially wanting, the wall of tlie sinus being in contact with the lining of the cells of the mastoid process. In older persons the wall again becomes thickened, sometimes to the extent of a line or more. This explains why it is that internal otitis is most liable to induce fatal inflammation of the brain between tlie ages of eigliteen and thirty, the age of forty-six being the oldest at which it has been known to do so. So, too, notwithstanding the frequency of otorrhoca in children, sncli fatal issue is proportionally very rare, inasmuch as the wall of separation, though spongy, is also thick in proportion. Arlt remarked that the veins must not be regarded as the sole source of propagation of the inflammation, as this may take place also by means of the thin bony wall, as might be expected from the analogous conditions under which orbital abscess is formed. Lancereaux.—On Meningeal Haemorrhage in relation to Pachymenin- gitis. Arch. Gener., Nov., Dec, 1862 ; Jan., 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb,, vol. 118, p. 16B. Lancereaux is persuadad that the pseudo-membrane is first formed, and that the haemorrhage is secondary (v. 'Year-book,' i86i,pp, 161, 168; and 1863, p. 77), The seat of the pseudo-membranes is almost always the convexity of the brain, on one or both sides, usu<ally in the vicinity of the division of the middle meningeal artery; here also the layer is thickish, and here also the sanguineous effusions are usually formed. The pia mater, as well as the dura, commonly presents marks of hypersemia or of inflammation, and even of suppuration. The symptoms vary according to the age and the development of the pseudo-membranes, the gradual or sudden effusion of bloody or serous fluid. If the membrane exists alone, its presence is only indicated by pain, usually limited to the seat it occu- pies, and, perhaps, by giddiness. When haemorrhage has taken place there are then signs of pressure on the brain, as dulness, somnolence, and paralysis, and of excitement, as manifested by contraction of the pupil and of the extremities, and sometimes convulsions. The transitory and interchanging character of the symptoms is also characteristic. The skin is usually pale, cachectic, the pulse normal, there is emaciation, and sometimes vomiting. The subsequent sudden attacks of bleeding are not essentially different from the primary. They determine apoplectic or con- vulsive attacks with secondary palsies or contractions, sometimes delirium, but for (he most part general paralysis and coma. These phenomena occur suddenly after a varying duration of the general symptoms, espe- cially of pain in the head, and usually prove speedily fatal. The course is generally chronic; in rare cases it may end in recovery, the symptoms at any rate ceasing, although the morbid formation remains. The chief causes are injuries to the skull, the abuse of alcohol, rheumatism, and erysipelas of the scalp, Babington, T. H., M.D, ; CuTHBERT, A., '^l.Tt—Paralysis caused by working under Co7npressed Air in sinJcing the foundations of London- derry new Bridge. Dublin Quar. Jour, of j\Ied. Sc., Nov., 1863.XEKVOUS SYSTEM. 89 The men worked under a pressure varying from twenty-seven pounds on the square inch to thirty-eight or forty-three pounds. The effects experienced hy the workmen were pain in tlie ears, which soon passed away, or was relieved hy the act of swallowing ; headache, increased sense of hearing, anomalous pains in the limhs, occasionally bleeding from the nose, and a feeling of general distress and uneasiness. These symptoms were all much increased when the transition from one medium to another was too rapidly effected. The state of the general health and previous habits of the workers appeared to exercise considerable influence on the symptoms. These symptoms were felt on first passing into the com- pressed air, but to a much greater extent on leaving it and passing into the external air. In this stage the serious and fatal effects were produced. Six cases are recorded, four of which proved fatal. Two fell down sud- denly in a state of insensibility on reaching the outer air. They were totally insensible when seen, the surface cold and livid; in one the right side of the face was partially paralysed ; the pulse very weak, fluttering, and irregular—about 150 ; respirations very irregular; teeth firmly clenched; slight movements of the legs when the soles of the feet were rubbed. Blood was taken from the arm to the amount of gxij ; it was very black and viscid. They both sank in twenty-four hours. Two others were serai-comatose at first, able to answer questions on being roused, but speedily relapsing into insensibility. The comatose symptoms passed off in about eighteen hours, when the lower part of the body was found to be paralysed both as to motion and sensation. In one the paralysis extended as high up as the fourth rib, in the other to the eighth dorsal vertebra. There was incontinence of urine and fseces. Death occurred from bed-sores. A fifth case was not taken ill suddenly ; he was found some hours after coming out of the cylinder much depressed, but quite sensible, complaining of severe pains in his legs and thighs, very sharp and shooting. He was quite unable to walk, and his legs and feet w^ere cold and numb, so much, so, indeed, that he burned his toes a good deal without being at all awai"e of it. With internal and external stimulation, he recovered in two days. There were many other cases of slight paralysis and muscular pains, and other anomalous nervous affec- tions. The authors refer the symptoms in the fatal cases to rupture of small vessels in the brain or cord, owing to the removal of pressure. There was no noxious element in the condensed air. Five Arabs in Egypt died in a similar way; blood issued from their noses, mouths, and ears. Leudet.— On Congestion of the Spinal Cord after a fall or violent exertions. Arch. Gen., May, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 185. The presumed causes are not followed immediately by any signs of con- cussion, but after a completely free interval of several hours or days a gradually increasing palsy of the lower and even of the upper extremities commences, which is followed by diminution of sensibility in the paralysed parts, by pain, generally not intense, in the vertebral column, in the joints, and in the course of the nerve-trunks. Sometimes there is also paralysis of the bladder, convulsions, and impairment of vision. All the symptoms90 EEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. vanish in from three to fifty days under local antiphlogistic treatment early applied. Russell.—Cases illustrathifj the injluence of Exhaustion of the Spinal Cord in inducing I'arapleyia. Med. Times and Gnz., Oct. 3i8t. llussell records three cases in which venereal excess produced more or less complete paraplegia. In one, which ended fatally, tlie nerve-tubules of the spinal cord a little above the lumbar enlargement, were in an imperfect atrophic state, and large collections of oil-globules existed in the walls of the minute vessels. Abundance of large granule-cells, with free oil-globules, existed in all parts of the cord, more especially 'in tlie lumbar enlargement. Russell, Reynolds.—CWe* of Paralysis. Lancet, Dec. 12th. In Case i there was paraplegia, which supervened without apparent cause, and disappeared in about six months under the use of strychnia and electricity. Weber, H., M.D. — A Contribution to the Pathology of the Crura Cerebri. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xlvi, p. 122, The patient, a male, set. 52, affected with disease of the aortic valves, and rigidity of the arteries, was subjecfto headache and disturbed sleep during the last years of his life. About two months before death he was suddenly seized with paralysis of the right side of the body, producing almost total loss of motor and considerable impairment of sensory power. At the same time the muscles supplied by the third nerve of the left side were also paralysed. The uvula was drawn to the left, the right half of the palate was pendulous. He died of broncho-pneumonia, after slight but perceptible improvement in the phenomena of paralysis. The intellectual faculties were quite unaffected, as also the special senses. There was im- perfect and less persistent paralysis of the muscles of the trunk and of the fifth, of the portio dura of the seventh, and of the ninth cerebral nerves of the same side; the affection of the pneumogastric nerve manifested itself in the more than usually slow and irregular action of the heart during the first days after the seizure, and to the impaired action of this nerve, as well as of the sympathetic, Weber ascribes the disposition to the fatal pulmonary inflammation. The participation of the sympathetic was further evinced by the increased temperature of the paralysed side. At the post-mortem an oblong clot of blood was discovered in the internal half of the left erus cerebri, about o'6 inch long, and 0^25 inch broad, and almost as deep ; it was situated very close to the internal and inferior surface, being separated from it only by a thin layer of nerve substance; its commencement was immediately in front of the pons. Microscopically examined, the clot presented many shrivelled blood-globules, besides many apparently unaltered ones. The surrounding yellowish and tense tissue contained'scarcely any nerve-fibres, but much connective tissue. In the left third nerve many oil-globules, and granules of various size, and also small granular corpuscles, were found, which M'ere absent in the right nerve J the fibres in the left nerve were scanty and broken down. All the other parts of the encephalon were normal. No circus movements were observed in the case, nor in one cited from Andral, such as are producedNERVOUS SYSTEM. 91 in animals by section of one crus cerebri. lu a case, however, put on record by Dr. Stiebel, where the left cms was extensively diseased, its diameter being more than twice that of the right, the head was always turned to the right, and there was no hemiplegia. JoNJJS, T.—On some points in connection with Cerebral Hcemorrhage. Brit. Med. Jour., Feb. 7th; July 3jth ; Nov. 7th. ^ Jones reports on 40 fatal cases occurring at St. George s Hospital. As regards nge, he finds that the majority of cases (13) occur between the ages of 40 and 50, 10 between 50 and 60, and 9 between 60 and 70. Males are much'raore liable to the disease than females (39 to 11). His conclusions from careful pathological examination of the cases are—(i) that cerebral hcemorrhage, when associated with renal disease, is almost always found to be dependent upon rupture of one or more of the cerebral arteries, in consequence of certain morbid changes having taken place within their walls; (3) these changes in the vi'alls of the vessels are induced by the altered state of the blood, the effect of advanced disease of the kidneys; (3) the enlargement of the heart is the immediate effect of the renal disease, conjointly, perhaps, with the alterations in the coats of the vessels. Premonitory" symptoms were more frequently present than absent. They were present in about 46, and absent in 36 per cent. Their duration varied from a few minutes to three months.^ They mostly consisted of abnormal sensations, especially headache. With regard to the pupils, Jones states that they are altered in the majority of cases of cerebral hremorrhage. Of the modifications, contraction is the more frequent variety. Contraction of the pupils coexists with paralysis, of which hemiplegia is the most frequent form. Paralysis is more frequently associated with dilatation of the pupils, and that more frequently ^e?iera^ in its extent. Alterations of the pupils bear no relation to the seat of the paralysis when partial. Contraction of the pupils almost always depends upon lesion in the membranes; dilatation upon lesion in the substance of the brain, when sufficient to exert a considerable degree of pressure. WiLKS.—Ca&es of Tubercular Meningitis in Adults tvith remarks on the Obscurifg of the Early Symptoms. Med. T. and Gaz., Sept. 13th. Wilks remarks that there is often an irritability about the subject of tuberculosis which contrasts in a most marked manner with the torpor of the fever patient, and to this he draws particular attention, as he has found it of the utmost service in attempting to distinguish between the two disorders. When these are at their height, the difference is often very striking, the one with inflammation of the brain being distressed by the slightest movement; he coils himself up in bed, is peevish, and wishes only to be left alone. At the same time the surface of the skin is often remarkably irritable, so that the patient calls out when touched, often feels cold, and shivers when his skin is very hot. In the case of fever there is none of this irritability; the patient will rather aid the examining pliysician if he be able to do so. Wilks states that he is inclined to believe in the rapid formation of the tubercle, and that the pyrexia attendant on its development is not, as often supposed, the result of the irritation which it has produced,JIEPOllT ON PHACTICAI. MEDICINE. Wagner, E.—On Syphiloma of the Nervous System, Arcli. d. Heilk., iv, 1863. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 118, p. 40. Wftgner notices the occurrence of these tumours in the dura mater, the pill muter, and the cerebral substance. In the latter situation they are probably much more frequent than lias been supposed, lie thinks that most of the so-called cerebral tubercles, occurring without any trace of tuberculosis in other parts, especially when they are connected with the pia mater, are of syphilitic nature, and this even when there are no other manifest signs of syphilis. Wagner has met with an instance in which the spinal cord was affected, but not one in which the nerves were. Laborde.—On the Alterations produced by Aye in the Capillaries of the Brain, and on their relation to Senile llamollissement. Gaz. de Paris, 26, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 182. Laborde examined the changes taking place in the ccrebi'al capillaries of old persons dying with softening of the brain, and found four degrees of morbid affection. In the first one the wall only presents a beaded dila- tation ; in the second the dilatation becomes general, and translucent depo- sits appear in the wall; iu the third the capillaries become prodigiously enlarged, and their wail is almost entirely occupied by the above-men- tioned fatty and calcareous deposits, which also penetrate into the interior of the vessels and blend with the remains of blood-globules; in the fourth degree the vessels burst, and only their debris are visible. This degene- ration of capillaries is more frequent in the cortical layer of the hemi- spheres than in the thalami optici and corpora striata, the crura cerebri, and the pons. In order to ascertain the ages at which these changes commenced, Laborde examined the brains of 60 children, 60 individuals between 15 and 5^ years of age, and 100 from 55 to 100. The result is as follows :—(i) Up to 45 years of age the capillaries of normal brains show no important change. Until the third or fourth year of life there are certainly found, especially in the cortical substance, beaded dilatations, with scattered deposits and enlargement of the nuclei in the wall, but as these are not found at a later period, they are doubtless connected with development. (2) After the fifty-fifth year it is usual to find the first two grades of vascular alterations, sometimes also the third, and almost invariably the first. (3) These changes arc especially marked in the cerebral cortex and in the corpus striatum and thalami optici, but occur also iu the rest of the brain. (4) Between the fortieth and fifty-fifth years it is exceptional to meet with the above changes. This is remarkable, because during the very same period the arteries at the base are very frequently atheromatous. Even after the fiftjf-fifth year alterations in the capillaries do not necessarily coincide with atheroma (of the larger vessels), so that it appears that the two sets of vessels are independently affected. (5) Wasting of the nervous elements in the vicinity of the diseased capillaries especially proceeds ^Jori passu with the vascular dege- neration. Meynert, Tii.—Case of Abscess in the Pons Varolii. Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., ix, 24, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 183.NERVOUS SYSTEM. 93 The abscess, of the size of a hazel-nut, was situated rather to the left side, it had caused paralysis of the right facial nerve, and of the lev. palp.braucli of the right third, and produced tonic contraction of the masseter. There was no affection of the limbs, wiiich Meynert explains by the circumstance that tlie longitudinal fibres in the pons were not destroyed, only somewhat displaced. RiiTDFLEiscH, Ed.—Oil Histological alterations in Gray Degeneration of the Brain and Spinal Cord. Virchow's Archiv, xxvi, p. 474, 1863. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 120, p. 183. From examination of a case of tabes dorsalis, Rindfleisch describes the disease as essentially consisting in a growth of fine-felted connective tissue, which commences with a remarkable thickening of the coats of the small arteries. The nervous tissue becomes atrophied and destroyed. Heine, C.—On Infantile Paralysis. Med. Tim. and Gaz., Nov. 28ti), Dec. 5th. Heine believes there are difi'ereiit kinds of paralysis in infancy as well as in later periods of life, but affirms that the true infantile paralysis to which he refers, and which is undoubtedly the most common, is of spinal origin. After describing the conditions observed during life, he gives some account of four post-mortem examinations. The first of these was that of an adult who had had marked paraplegia from infancy; the cord was found greatly atrophied and shrunken from the eighth pair of dorsal nerves downwards, and the atrophy involved also the peripheral nerves. In the second case, one of paralysis of the whole of one leg, the atrophy and morbid change of colour were principally confined to the anterior roots of the lumbar and sacral nerves of the right side. In the third case, one of hemiplegia, examined a few years after the appearance of the affection, the remains of a former meningitis were found in an old, solid, and gelatinous pseudo-membrane, lining the whole arachnoid of the cord, so that the latter was strongly constricted, and started out when the membrane was cut into. The membranous exudation spread over the roots of the nerve-trunks of the paralysed limb, and reached the cauda equina. The last case was that of a child, set. 10 years, with paralysis of both lower limbs and great deformity of the knees and feet. Tuber- cles were found in the cord on microscopic examination. BouciiUT. —O/i the Contagiousness of Nervous Diseases. L'Union, 57, 58, 60, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 86. Bouchut records two epidemics of this kind occurring at Paris. One, in 1840, appeared among 400 females employed in making shirts, of whom 85 were attacked with loss of consciousness and slight convul- sions. Its further spread was arrested by exclusion of those who were once affected from the work, and putting in lower windows. The second, in 1861, occurred during the preparation for the first communion in the church of Montmartre. Out of 150 girls, above 40 were attacked with loss of consciousness and convulsions, but not one of the same number of boys who were present at the same time.IIEPOIIT ON PttACTlCAL MEDICINK. 9-1. Anstie, F. E.—On the Therapeutical Value of Cod-lioev Oil in Chroni, Convulsive Diseases. Brit. IMed. Joiirn., Marcli ytli, Anstie states that lie lias found the oil more constantly useful thiiii any other medicine in paralysis agitans, simple epilepsy, chorea, and mercurial tremor. Out of 20 cases of epilepsy, 7 completely recovered, and several others were more or less beuefited. In 3 of these cases tht general nutrition of the body had been excellent, and only that of tlie nervous system appeared deficient, so that the conclusion appeared inevi- table that the oil had especially addressed itself to the nervous centre.«. He discouraged strongly the search after specific remedies for convulsive affections, and recommended a rational treatment. Edin. Med. Jour., Jan., contains a valuable critical review of syphilitic aftections of the nei'vous system. Griesingeb.—On the Diagnosis of Cysticerci of the Brain. Archiv. d. Heilkunde, i86a. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan. Griesinger, after carefully analysing between 50 and 60 cases of this disease, arrives at the following general conclusions :—(i) That the diagnosis of cysticercus must be based on a twofold series of considera- tions— the one resting on the improbability of any other cerebral affec- tion, the symptoms not corresponding; and the other on the presence of a definite series of symptoms. (2) Cases of convulsive attacks, being more or less epileptic, are chiefly suspicious which come on in a sub- acute way, or quickly increase to a certain pitch, and present!}', after a steady increase in number and intensity, assume the general appearance of a very severe cerebral disease. (3) The probability of cysticercus is increased if these symptoms come on in patients of adult age, being previously healthy, or in men in whom neither hereditary disposition nor traumatic nor syphilitic influences, nor lesions of the vessels or heart, could have given rise to them. (4) A suspicion of this disease would be aroused if, under the circumstances last named, mental depression and confusion, accompanied with giddiness, loss of sight and hearing, headache, coma, &c., occur. (5) Symptoms of cerebral lesion, if con- joined with paralysis, are to be looked upon almost with certainty as not having origin in the cysticercus. (6) The manifestation of cysticerci in certain parts under such circumstances naturally elevates the probability into certainty. He divides the various collected cases into five categories:— (a) Those which run their course without any or with but very obscure symptoms. (6) Cases in which epilepsy exists without mental disturb- ance ; in these cases death occurs either independently of epilepsy, or so far connected with it that the epileptic symptoms first set in shortly before death, or a kind of cerebral disturbance is developed from one or more of the attacks which leads to death, (c) Cases in which, along with epilepsy, psychical disturbance is at the same time set up, whose continua- nuation and character warrant the designation of a mental disease. The psy- chical disturbance is expressed at one time as mania, true delirium, or con- fusion of mind ; at another, as obstinacy or imbecihty, and appears either before or after epilepsy, {d) Cases in which epilepsy is wanting, but in which the mental disturbance exists, accompanied frequently by other motorNEEVOUS SYSTEM. 95 and sensitive disturbances. In some of these cases oUier patliological changes -within the cranium appear to form the basis of the psychical disease, (e) There are cases in which neither epilepsy nor mental dis- turbance exists, but cerebral symptoms of irritation or torpor, which come on shortly before death or assume a chronic form. The cysticerci were situated chiefly at the periphery of the brain, in the gray cortical layer ; whence he concludes that they had not been themselves carried thither, but their germs had. The epilepsy from cysticercus is in all respects like cerebral epilepsy, and the psychical disturbances in general have nothing characteristic about them. Very often, also, other cerebral symptoms coexist, such as squinting, alteration in the pupils, avoidance of light, headache, coma, anomalous sensations in the limbs, &c. The only exceptions to the location of the cysticerci in the cerebral mem- branes and in the cortical gray matter are where they are very numerous in the brain ; if the number is moderate, it is extremely rare to find even a few imbedded in the white matter (not merely projecting into it out of the gray), and they are never found solely in the white matter. Those cases only where the cysticerci were situated more deeply in or near the large cerebral ganglia, or in the basal parts of the brain had paralysis. The predominant symptoms were in almost all cases those of so-called cerebral irritation, partly in the way of motor, partly in the way of psychical, disorder. In i6 cases out of 54, epileptiform paroxysms occurred, and terminated fatally after other grave symptoms had super- vened, as delirium, sopor, and extreme debility. In two instances the rapid course of the disease appeared certainly to depend on the rapid growth of the vesicles. Cysticercal epilepsy is mostly a disease of rather advanced life. In 43 cases where the age is accurately stated there were only 3 under 20 years, 15 between 20 and 40, and 25 over 40 years of age. More males are attacked than females, (60 per cent.) The number of the cysticerci has a considerable influence on the symptoms, especially on the occurrence of mental disorder. A few (i—3) vesicles were present in 20 cases, and of these there were 3 without symptoms, 8 with the uncertain and inconsiderable symptoms of group e, <; with epilepsy, and 6 with mental disease, 2 of the latter being epileptic. A moderate number of vesicles (5—60) were present in 28 cases ; of these 2 had no symptoms, 7 belong to group e, 9 were epileptic, 13 insane, 3 of these being also epileptic. Very numerous, sometimes several hun- dred, vesicles were present in 8 cases; of these none were without symp- toms, only I belonged to group e, 2 were epileptic, 6 insane, one of these also epileptic. Though the general rule is as above stated, exceptions occur, which appear to depend in great measure on the condition of the cerebral substance, which is not directly affected by the disease. If acute tumefaction of the brain sets in during the last days of life, the surface of the organ is pressed against the skull and becomes pale and dry, and there ensues a rapid aggravation of all the symptoms ; whereas atrophy of the brain has an opposite effect, and no signs of cerebral pressure are often apparent. Fekbeb, R. H.—Arch. d. Heilk., p. 530, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. 50.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, 96 Records twelve cases seen by him nt Ilaniburg. lie confirms Grie- singer'a statement as to the preference of the cysticerci for tlie corticiii part of the brain, but seems to liave met less frequently with epilepsy and mental disturbance, and more often with paralysis of one side. BRowN-SicauAKD.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., March i4tli. States that muscular ataxy, in his view, is only a peculiar symptom which may be associated with various diseases, and that the treatment must vary accordingly. When it is connected with lesion of the pos- terior columns, and with many other affections of the spinal cord, including epilepsy, where no inflammation exists, nitrate of silver, in doses of gr. will prove of the greatest use. If this medicine be given in these doses, and omitted occasionally for a week during the course of the treatment, it will cause no discoloration of the sldn. This result may be equally avoided by giving the oxide of silver in doses of from gr. f to gr. v three or four times a day. In the treatment of meningitis or neuralgia, he remarks that patients who cannot bear a double dose of belladonna, or any other narcotic, will tolerate very well a full dose of two taken together. Of the so-called essential paralysis of children, he observes that, if it really exist, it is exceedingly rare, and that a great majority of the so- called cases are really the result of a lesion of some part or parts of the cerebro-spinal axis. Post-mortem examinations have frequently afforded evidence of effusions of serum within the dura mater and ventricles of the brain, and, though more rarely, of inflammation of the substance either of the brain or cord. A case of facial paralysis showing the extensive reflex effects of cold water was also brought forward. The patient, aged 44, bad got very wet, and became affected the following night. He was unable to shut the right eye; and the tongue and lips being affected, he could not pronounce certain letters; for the same reason, drinking was difficult; there was slight motor paralysis of the right side of the tongue ; the sense of taste on the same side was lost; the eye was very sensitive to light; the sense of hearing on the right side was lessened; there was hypersestliesia on both sides of the face, but the sense of feeling in the tongue was normal, and there was no tinnitus aurium and no headache. The power of the nerves on the left side corre.'ponding to those affected on the right was also slightly impaired. Brown-Sequard regards the affection as not centric, but entirely peripheral, because there was no anajsthesia of the tongue, no loss of power of, and no abnormal sensation, in the limbs. With regard to syphilitic diseases of the nervous system, it was contended that if a patient has had primary disease, and the nervous system is affected in several distinct parts at the same time, the occurrence of secondary symptoms is no necessary link in the chain of evidence. WuNDERLicH, C. A.—Arch. d. Ileilk., p. 27, 1863. Records two additional cases of the efficacy of nitrate of silver in pro- gressive spinal paralysis. Radclii'PE, C. B.—Brit. Med. Journ., November 7th. Strongly recommends the employment of the hypophosphites in ten-NfillVOUS SYSTEM. 97 various other nstlienic conditions of the nervous system. He also pre- scribes alcoholic stimuli, and plenty of fatty matter in the food, but dis- courages the use of sedatives. Sugar is injurious in rheumatic cases. Heller.—Wien. Med. Wochensclir, Brit. Med. Journ., January 3rd, Gives the following account of the analysis of a boy's urine, set. 6, who died of hydrophobia. The sp. gr. = 1036. It was very acid ; deposited a very large amount of uric acid, no urate of ammonia. The urea was greatly iifcreased, also the sulphates and the earthy phosphates. The chlorides were slightly diminished ; the alkaline phosphates slightly in- creased. There was no sugar, and only a trace of albumen and carbonate of ammonia. Benedikt, M.—The method of Electrical Examination of the Nervous System for Diagnostic Purposes. AUg. Wien. Med. Zeit., viii, 18, 19, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 399. Benedikt affirms that in electrical testing of different parts of a nerve, ■when paralysis exists in the parts supplied by it, different parts react differently. There are paralyses which declare themselves only when the muscles are faradised, the voluntary power remaining perfect, as in the period of recovery from saturnine and traumatic paralyses ; others, again, in which only the voluntary power is defective, while stimulation of the nerve-trunk or of the muscle produces contraction, as in peripheral rheumatic and cerebral paralyses; lastly, some where only direct stimu- lation of the muscle itself, or of the nerve-trunk, produces movement, but the will is inoperative, as in certain peripheral paralyses. Benedikt there- fore advises us in every instance of paralysis to subject successively the muscles, the nerve-trunk, the plexus from which it originates, and the anterior spinal roots (!), to the induced or constant current. If the muscle does not contract in a normal manner when directly stimulated, but does so when the stimulus is applied to the nerve or the centre, it must be healthy, and the cause of the deficient contraction can only exist in defective excitability of the intra-muscular motoi'-uerve-tibres, lu cases where the muscle and nerve react to peripheral excitation, but the voluntary power is lost, there must be a failure of the conducting power in the nerves. The degree of excitability may be estimated by the amount of contraction, and its increase by the occurrence of contraction on open- ing the circuit. Changes in the conducting power of the nerves declare themselves by changes in the rapidity with which impulses are propa- gated, and with which, consequently, contraction ensues. In the case of anesthesia we must proceed in a similar way. If a sensory nerve, when ' stimulated at any part, gives rise to normal sensation, we are sure that the cause of the disorder is situated more peripherally than the point acted upon ; and we must advance more peripherally till we find where stimulation fails to produce the normal effect. The condition of the vaso- motor nerves may be tested in the same way, their action being judged of by the occurrence of pallor. Benedikt finds that morphia greatly increases the electrical excitability of nerves, while the relaxing eflcct of iitropine is increased by previous galvanization. The latter is often necessary before the former can act beneficially. 798 lUSPOET ON PJtACTICAL ilKDiClNK. Fraseu.—Med. Tim. and Gnz., February 7tli. Records a case of trismus algidus resulting from exposure to wet aud cold, nud becoming so severe that the jaws could only be separated by considerable force. He was treated with Ext. Cannab. Ind., com- mencing with gr. J 0. h., and increasing the dose to gr. iij o. h. This caused intoxication in about twelve hours, which soon disappeared on leaving oil the drug. Altogether, 115 grains were taken during seven days of treatment. He improved gradually, and made a good recovery. He had had a similar attack, but less severe, a year before, from exposure to cold and wet, which ceased in three weeks spontaneously. SpiTZER, C.—Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., viii, 50, 1862. Records a case of traumatic tetanus in M'hich curare was used unsuc- cessfully. It was injected into the subcutaneous tissue, dissolved in alco- hol. After three grains had been used the symptoms remitted, but returned severely, and the patient died on the tenth day from the injury. FiiONMuLLEB.—On the Soporific Power of Lactuca. Deutsche Khnik, 41—^44, i86a. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 25. From 149 observations made with various preparations, Fronmuller concludes—(i) that English or German lactucarium is the most effica- cious; (2) that the dose must be from 10 to 30 grains, if it is to act eflectually; (3) that it is the mildest of all the narcotics, but still may give rise to giddiness, headache, and stupor. Sellee, W.—On Delirium Tremens, as distinguished from other Effects on the Mind, real or apparent, of Excess in Drinking. Edin. Med. Journ., November, 1863. Seller would refuse the name of delirium tremens—(i) to abortive cases, or threatenings of this disorder; (2) to cases of insanity, either temporary or more permanent, the immediate precursor of which is excessive drinking ; (3) to mere fits of drunkenness, with much violence or extravagance, but without distinct delusion. He illustrates these states by narrating various instances of each. Delirium tremens presents, he says, so great a simi- larity in its course, under the most opposite circumstances, as to approach to the character of a specific disease, like smallpox or measles, in the train of symptoms exhibited. Ogle, J. W., M.D.—Med. Times aud Gnz., December 19th. Records three cases of delirium tremens in which opium appears (0 have been of essential service. In the last case the attack (the first one) had commenced fourteen days before his admission ; he had opium in divided doses for five days, Mith Ant. Pot. Tart, gr. \, every four hour.s for the last day and a half. Morphia, gr. iss, was now given, and repeated in six hours, and sulphuric ether and carbonate of ammonia given every three hours. He improved steadily from this time, the morphia being given for four successive nights. One night subsequently, when it was omitted, he was more restless. ^ FioiiRY.—Jour, de Med. et de Chir. pratiq., July, 1863. Recommends ammonia administered internally as a touchstone in allNERVOUS SYSTEM. 99 cases of severe nervous disorders occurring in an individual accustomed to alcoholic excess. If the symptoms result from the abuse of alcohol, they are dissipated under the use of ammonia with remarkable rapidity; if they persist, their cause must be sought elsewhere. He gives the case of a male, £et. 45, who drank 2 to 3 litres (^^ to 5 pints) of wine daily, his health, however, remaining good. One day he found, on getting up, a stiffness in the left arm and leg, such that he could not dress himself. He had previously had pains in the right side of the head, with tremor of the limbs. Bleeding, sinapisms, frictions, had been of no benefit. On his admission into La Charite he could neither walk nor use his left hand, and his sensory power was also much impaired. In three days after the administration of ammonia (Liq. Ammoniee) he was remarkably improved ; be could walk, and use his arm. There only remained of his former con- dition a little tremor, which made him walk rather lame. TtiRCK, L.—On Neuralgia and Hypercesthesia of the Throat. Wien. Allg. Med. Zeit., vii, 9, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 31. Tiirck describes an affection of the lateral parts of the base of the tongue, the tonsils, and the sides of the pharynx. These parts appeared normal, but were the seat of pains which existed in both, but were always greatest on one side. Sometimes there was difficulty in swallowing, a sensation as of a tumour or a foreign body in the throat, or of dryness. Of 6 cases 2 were males of 37 and 60 years ; the others were females. In 2 of the latter tlie affection had replaced a neuralgia, an intercostal or hemicranial. In all the cases the pain was increased by continued talking or singing, or by swallowing too hot a substance. The only treatment mentioned consisted in resection of a piece of the gustatory nerve, and cauterization with solid Argenti Nitras. Pfaff.—Varges Ztschr., N. F. i, 4, 1862. Schmidt's Jabrb., vol. 117, p. 163. Records evidence as to the good effect of 01. Terebinth, in severe pro- sopalgia. He gives five drops ter die, internally, and applies it also ex- ternally to the painful part. Fin CO, G.—Cauterization of the Ear in Sciatica. Gaz. Lomb., 38, 39, 41, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. i6j. Finco relates several cases, and then gives an account of his whole ex- perience on this point. He has performed the operation in 48 cases : in 30 with complete, in 10 with incomplete, in 8 without any, success. In these last cases there were always grave complications—scurvy, inflam- mation, &c.—after the removal of which the sciatica in some instances dis- appeared spontaneously. In all the cases except in one the cauterization was preceded by energetic antiphlogistic treatment; in some the cure was completed by mercurial or belladonna ointment; and in seven, where the operation only effected an improvement, these external applications, com- bined with suitable internal remedies, speedily got rid of the disease. The operation was repeated only three times, and in all with complete success. Twice the sciatica, after one side had been cured by the opera- tion, reappeared after some time (three months or three years) on the other, and again yielded to the same proceeding.REPORT ON I'RACTICAL MEDICINE. TOO Worms, J.—PM-aly»es from Cold. Gaz. llebd., x, i6, 186,3. Schmidt's Jnhrb., vol. 119, p. 292. Worms regards such paralyses as distinct from rheumatic. Their cha- racteristics are that tliey set in speedily after the operation of the exciting cause ; that the palsy varies iu extent, but never affects the muscles alone, but always, at the same time or previously, the sensibility, or in some cases the latter alone. If the paralysis first appears on the face or trunk it usually remains limited to it; but if it begin in the hands or feet, it is apt to extend further. It is mostly of very short duration; if it con- tinues long, some other cause is in operation. Treatment consists in vapour baths, frictions, and especially electricity. He gives the case of a soldier, oct. 25, who was exposed to cold after being much heated. The same evening anaesthesia commenced in one foot, and extended itself by the ninth day over almost the whole body. Paralysis of motion was also almost universal, so that respiration was performed only by the dia- phragm. The facial and third nerves were paralysed, and smell was lost; speech was much impaired. In a month from the commencement of bis illness the patient had quite recovered. Skoda.—Wien. Med. Halle iii, 13, 1862. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 119, p. 294. Records a case of paralysis agitans, affecting both hands, in a female, set. 32. Cutaneous sensibility was a little impaired, the speech was rather stammering, the vision and intelligence perfect. The patient continued in this state four months, aud then died of variola. The brain was found tough, the walls of the ventricles, the fornix, pons, medulla oblongata, and spinal cord, wei'e surprisingly stiff; both optic nerves were stiff and flattened. In some opaque reddish parts of the brain the nerve-elements were destroyed by embryonal connective tissue ; iu the pons and medulla there were growths of the same tissue, and the vessels were obliterated. The muscles w^ere in a state of fatty degeneration ; the neurilemma of the nerves of the upper extremities was thickened. Jones, T.—Report of a Case of Catalepsy, with Observations. Brit. Med. Jour., June 6th. A male, set. 60, strong made, tall, suffered from the efiects of strong mental shock for fourteen days; had then hallucinations of vision and hearing for two or three days, after which he was suddenly seized with tetanic rigidity of all the muscles, which caused him to be fixed in the position in which he happened to be at the time of seizure; subsequently the limbs retained any position in which they were placed; there was par- tial loss of consciousness, but he was able to walk up stairs ; and if pushed 80 as to make him lose his balance, he made sufHcient exertion to regain his equilibrium. His muscles contracted well under galvanism. He had per- fect control over the sphincters. His urine was natural. In about twenty- two hours the attack passed off, and did not recur. Galvanism and diffu- sible stimulants were beneficial; the cold douche did not appear to be so. VoGT.— Catalepsy at BilUvyshaxisen as an Endemic Jfi'cction. Wiirzb. Med. Ztschr., iv, 3, ]86*3. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. lao, p. 301. It appears that catalepsy iias long been prevalent at Dillingshausen,XEIIVOUS SYSTEM. 101 which lies near Wiirzburg, nnd has a popuhition of jjeasants, who are well off", but who iutcrmarry into each other's families. The affected individuals, who are called there "the stiff" (Starren), are suddenly seized by a peculiar sensation in their hmbs, upon which all their muscles become tense, their countenance deathly pale, they retain the posture which they first assume, their fingers are bent and quiver slightly, and the eyeballs in the same way, the visual axes converging; their intellects and" senses are normal, but their speech consists only of broken sounds. The attack ceases in one to five minutes, and the body becomes warm. A chill is commonly said to be the exciting cause. The attacks come on in all places and during all occupations, but with varj-- ing intensity. The disorder is hereditary in families, but often passes over one generation, and is rendered more intense by the marriage of two persons thus affected. Half of the population, men as well as women, is cataleptic. All the inhabitants are small and deformed, but not mentally inferior to those of adjacent districts. Peacock, T. B.—Statistical Analysis of Cases of Chorea. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Oct., 1863. Peacock's conclusions are as follows :—(i) The disease existed in twenty females and in only eleven males. (2) It is much more frequent from five to twenty years of age, but occurs at all ages. (3) Itis about equally frequent in young boys and young girls. (4) From the age of ten to that of twenty, the female sex is much more liable to the disease, in the ratio of ten to four. (5) Some form of rheumatic or cardiac affection is most frequently associated with chorea; in fourteen cases it was present in five. (6) The most frequent exciting causes of chorea are more or less violent mental impressions—fear, grief, excessive joy, &c. Such influences were operative in 387 per cent, of the cases, but were in several instances so slight that there Avas evidently an undue susceptibility. (7) The indica- tions for treatment are to relieve gastro-intestinal irritation, quiet the ner- vous system, and improve the general power and condition of the blood. The pupils in the active stage of chorea are very large, and the iridcs nearly insensible to light. (8) There is not much difference in the faci- lity of cure in cases of first attack or of relapses or subsequent seizures. The age also does not influence the result, provided the patients are not in advanced life. (9) Under any course of treatment chorea is prone to relapse. BniCHETEAU—Gaz. des Hopit., No. 46. Observed in one of Monneret's wards an epidemic of chorea. In the course of five days after the admission of a young girl suffering from most intense chorea, eight patients already present in the ward contracted the disorder, and in all probability the contagion would have extended more widely had not its influence been arrested by isolation of the patients. KlRKKS, W. S.—0?i Choi •ea; its relation to Valvular Disease of the Heart, and its Treatment. Med. T. and Gaz., June 20th, 27th. Kirkes believes that whenever chorea occurs in association with acute rheumatism, the valves of the left side of the heart are inflamed, and that therefore the association is not between chorea and rheumatism, as usually believed, but between chorea and valvular disease of the102 KKPOllT ON PUACTIOAL MEDTCIXK. heart, excited by rheumatism. lie aflirms also that cases of chorea not mifrequeiitly occur in which no other attendant morbid condition can be found than that of valvular disease of the heart. Sometimes such cases happen in individuals belonging to a rheumatic family, and in whom, therefore, the rheumatic diathesis may be assumed to be in some degree operative; sometimes they happen in association with some of the trivial temporary disorders, as worms and the like, which have been mentioned as occasional attendants on chorea. Very often in such cases no evidence of rheumatic tendency can he detected to account for the cardiac disease, nor any proof of the existence of any other ailment likely to explain the chorea. After detailing various points relative to puerperal ciiorea, he relates two cases of this kind in which fibrinous vegetations were found on the aortic and mitral valves. After expressing his opinion that the affec- tion of the valves plays an important part in the chorea, he inquires whe- ther the chorea produces the valvular disease, or vice versd, or whether both are the result of some common cause. He rejects the first view as unsatisfactory, and thinks there are many cases to wliich the third cannot apply. He adopts the second view, viz., that the valvular disease is the medium through which the nervous phenomena are developed in those who by hereditary or acquired tendency are specially predisposed thereto. Partly by the mere circulation of morbid blood through the nervous centres, partly also by temporary obstruction in the minute capillaries, occasioned by fibrinous particles arrested therein, the irritation leading to the development of the choreic or other analogous phenomena may be accounted for. After noticing the general enfeeblement and paresis of the nervous system, he proceeds to remark on the frequency of softening of the nervous centres, which appears always to be of the pale kind. Some- times the spinal cord alone, sometimes the brain alone, or parts of it, sometimes both these nervous centres, are thus affected. He thinks it rea- sonable to believe that some close relation exists between the softening and the chorea. The imperfect nutrition of the nervous centres renders them unduly excitable by even ordinary impressions, and thus predisposed, they are subjected to the additional disturbing influence of blood vitiated and rendered peculiarly irritating by the attendant rheumatic or valvular disease, which thus becomes mainly instrumental in developing the dis- ease. As to treatment, if the diathesis be possibly rheumatic, alkalies should be employed ; in other cases, all means which by promoting a better nutrition may improve the tone of the debilitated nervous system. Chapman, J., M.D.—On a neio Method of Ireating Disease by controlling the Circulation of the Blood in different parts of the Body. Med. Times and Gaz,, July i8th. Chapman claims to have discovei*ed that a controlling power over the circulation of the blood in the brain, in the spinal cord, in the ganglia of the sympathetic system, and through the agency of these nervous centres, also in every other organ of the body, can be exercised by means of cold and heat applied to different parts of the back. In this manner the reflex excitability or cxcito-motor power of the spinal cord, and the contractile force of the arteries in all parts of the body, can be immediately modified. Tn order to lessen the cxcito-motor power of the spinal cord only, he103 NERVOUS SYSTEM. applies ice in nii indian-rubber bag, about two inches wide, along that part of the spinal column containing the part of the cord on which he wishes to act. On the same principle, the vitality of the spinal cord may- be increased by applying liot water and ice alternately, each in an indian- rubber bag, if very energetic action be required ; if less vigorous action be necessary, he applies ice or iced water only, using it several times a day, for a short time on each occasion, with a long interval between each appli- cation. If it be desirable to increase the circulation in any given part of the body, tiiis can be effected by exerting a soothing, sedative, depressing, or paralysing influence (according to the amount of power required) over those ganglia of the sympathetic which send vaso-motor nerves to the part intended to be acted on. This influence may be excited by applying ice to the central part of the back, over a width of from four to four and a half inches, and extending longitudinally over the particular segments of the sympathetic and of the spinal cord on which it is desired to act. For example, intending to direct a fuller and more equable flow of blood to the brain, he applies ice to the back of the neck and between the sca- pular; increased circulation in and warmth of the upper extremities are induced in the same way; the thoracic and abdominal viscera can be influenced in like manner by applications to the dorsal and lumbar regions; while the legs and the coldest feet ever felt can have their circu- lation so increased that they become thoroughly warm by an ice-bag applied to the lower part of the back. By thus acting by means of cold or heat, or both alternately or combined, on the spinal cord and ganglia of the sympathetic. Chapman has succeeded in completely arresting the fits of many epileptics, and in curing the following maladies:—Paralysis; long-continued and extreme headaches; prolonged giddiness; extreme somnolence; a feeling of want of firmness in standing and of security in walking; habitual hallucinations; loss of memory; weakness and dim- ness of sio;ht; ocular spectra; inequality of the pupils ; lateral anaesthesia; uncontrollable spasmodic opening and shutting of the mouth ; cramps of the limbs (in two cases of the hands incapacitating the patients to con- tinue their work; numbness of the fingers, incapacitating the patients to pick up small objects or to use a needle ; paralysis of the bladder; incapa- city to retain the urine more than a few minutes; profuse and too frequent menstruation; scanty and irregular menstruation; extreme menstrual pains ; profuse leucorrhcea, with long-continued bearing down of the womb, and extreme pain of the back ; halntual constipation ; habi- tual diarrhoea; general coldness of the surface of the body, which has continued for many years ; habitually and hitherto irremediably cold feet. For the cure of epilepsy he gives the following rules, the object of which is to lessen the excito-motor power of the cord by lessening the amount of blood circulating in it, and to prevent those spasmodic contractions of the cerebral arteries which induce the sudden loss of consciousness constituting the first phase of an epileptic fit:—(i) Apply ice to some one part or to the whole lengtli of the back, and from two to eighteen hours a day, according to the special character of the case under treatment. (2) If the extremities be cold, to aid them in recovering their wonted warmth during the first day or two of treatment, by frequently immersing them in hot water, and by friction ; also in winter by clothing the arms down tq104 llKl'OilT OX rUACTICAL MKDICINli. the wrists and the legs down to the ankles in flannel. (.3) As auxiliaries— (a) to take abundant physical exercise, and to use dumij-bclls when practicable, or other special means oi' increasini; the respiratory activity and of expanding the energy of the spinal cord ; (6) so to cut or dress the luiir that it shall not cover or keep warm the upper part of the back of the neck; (c) to exercise the brain daily and systematically in some healthy study, or, if this be impracticable, to ensure regular mental acti- vity by means of some interesting employment; (d) to take care that the dress along the centre of the back be light and cool. Meryon, E.—Pathological and praetieal Researches on the various forms of Paralysis. Brit. Med. Jour., May i6th, July iith, 35th, Aug, 32nd, Oct. 24th, Dec. 26tb. Our limits do not permit us to do more than to refer to these valuable papers. Wjdal.—Case of Obstiyiate Hiccough, accompanied bij serious symptoms, cured by Sulphate of Quinine. Gaz. Med. de I'Algerie. Lond. Med. Rev., April. A man in Algeria was admitted under the care of Widal, suffering under the consequences of cerebral congestion. Five or six daj's after his admission, and after excess in alcoholic stimulants, he was seized with ' violent hiccough, the incessant spasms of which compelled him to remain in bed, and resisted all treatment by antispasmodics. The hiccough was so intense and noisy that it was heard outside the hospital. The number of diaphragmatic contractions reached fifty-five in the minute, and their energy was so great that all the muscles of the trunk participated in them. There was considerable dyspnoea, short inspiration, red face, white tongue, loathing of all kinds of food ; pulse small—80. Infusion of orange, ether, and laudanum, a blister to the epigastrum, sinapisms to the extremities, were all used without success. Afterwards a pill was given, containing about one third of a grain of extract of opium, every two hours, and the blister was dressed with Morph. Mur. The next day, notwithstanding the enor- mous doses of opium, the hiccough continued with the^same violence ; the epigastrium was rather tender on pressure, and the patient had not slept an instant. The strength was gradually failing, the pulse was very small, and the loss of appetite was complete. Extract of belladonna in large doses, valerianate of zinc, subnitrate of bismuth, magnesia, aperients, and chloroform, were all unsuccessful. W. now had recourse to quinine— twelve grains at a dose. The next day it was announced that the hic- cough had entirely disappeared three hours after the quinine had been taken, and the sleep and appetite were both restored. The quinine was taken every day in the same dose for three days, and the hiccough never returned, but the patient gradually recovered his strength. The hiccough liad lasted, without intermission, nineteen days. Greenhow^ E. W.—On Diphtherial Nerve Affections. Edin. Med. Jour., Aug., 186.3. Greenhow records five cases carefully studied by himself in the Middle- sex Hospital. He premises some general remarks, from which we extract the more important. While he admits that nervous disorders by no means105 NERVOUS SYSTEM. necessarily ensue on every attack of diplitheria, and that then- frequency and intensity is by no means invariably proportional to the severity of the primary disease, he yet states that tlie more severe the case is the more likely is nervous disorder, as a general rule, to occur, and the more intense is it also likely to prove. Between the disappearance of the primary and the appearance of the secondary symptoms of diphtheria, a brief period of convalescence, varying from a few days to a few weeks, nsually intervenes. The occurrence of this interval shows that the nerve affections are not attributable either to the debility or anaemia induced by the disease, nor to the albuminuria which so often accompanies it. These nerve affections do not at once attain their maximum of intensity, but are progressive, although their progress even in the same sets of muscles, is sel- dom quite uniform. If several sets of muscles are attacked, the faucial or pharyngeal are almost invariably the first to suffer, next the sight becomes impaired, and subsequently the muscles of the tongue, of the lip, and of the upper and lower extremities, become affected in the order they are named, though it by no means follows that ail of them should be affected in the same individual. Ancesthesia has coexisted with the paralytic affection of the'fauces in all the cases that have come under Greenhow's observation; these organs, naturally so sensitive, become altogether in- sensible and callous, even to repeated and forcible pricks with the nib of a pen. In rare instances the speech becomes so inarticulate as to be almost unintelligible. It is worthy of note that the paralysis and anaes- thesia are sometimes more complete on that side of the fauces which was most severely affected in the early stage of the disease. Sometimes the pharyngeal muscles are also paralysed, and there is then more or less difficulty (sometimes alarming) in swallowing. The impairment of vision, wliich is probably due to paralysis of the ciliary muscle, is, perhaps, the next most frequent of these disorders. It sometimes comes on very suddenly, but is preceded for a day or two by dilatation and sluggish action of the iris, or actual paralysis of that structure. The tongue, lips, and cheeks, are often affected, not only in their motor power, but in their sensory also. The parts are numb or cold, or experience a sense of for- mication or of scalding, and taste is sometimes lost. The upper extremities are either first affected or simultaneously with the lower. The affection of the limbs comprises more or less complete paralysis and aneesthesia, besides tenderness and abnormal sensations, such as formication and a perception of tightness in the fleshy parts. In one case there were also convulsive movements, resembling chorea, when the patient attempted to use the limbs. Just as the sense of scalding and numbness always begins in the tip of the tongue and subsequently spreads along the organ, so also these affections of the limbs are at their commencement peripheral. Tingling is experienced in the tips of the fingers, accompanied by numb- ness, rendering the patient unable to pick up small objects. Presently these symptoms extend to the wrists and upwards to the elbows, and even to the shoulders, being especially felt, however, ou the palmar surface of the hands. The ailment runs a like course in the lower extremities, but also frequently extends to the muscles of the lower part of the back, and of the abdomen as high as the umbilicus. The limbs affected at first feel heavy and feeble, and a sensation of coldness often exists in them through-EEPORT ON PIUCTICAL MEDICINE. 100 out the dumtion of the paralysis. As the ailment progresses, the anaes- thesia rentiers the sense of touch so imperfect, that both in endeavouring to walk and to use the hands the patient is compelled to direct his move- ments by the eye. The sense of numbness is pretty constantly present in these cases, but the formication is chiefly, perhaps only, felt when efforts are made to move the aflected limbs. If the paralysis continue for any length of time, the muscles concerned become flabby and sometimes very much emaciated, and their strength becomes so much impaired that patients who can move the affected limbs freely in bed often walk with much difficulty, or are even unable to stand, their limbs bending under them in the effort, so that, unless supported, they fall to the ground. Very often this loss of power and numbness are accompanied by increased sensibility of particular parts of the affected limbs. There is tenderness of the soles of the feet, of the cilves of the legs, or of the fleshy parts of the arms; besides this, general tenderness, pressure of the instep between the finger and thumb often causes acute pain, with convulsive starting of the leg and foot; and pressure along the large nerves of the arm and thigh, especially the median and sciatic nerves, is attended by pain or acute tenderness. In one case there was very considerable pain on percussion over the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae, and also tenderness on pressure by the sides of the vertebrae from the lower dorsal region downwards. In the severest cases of diphtherial paralysis and anaesthesia a sense of tight- ness is often experienced, as if the parts were firmly bandaged. This does not usually occur till the patient is beginning to mend, and is then often very troublesome, extending sometimes to the arms, legs, and abdomen. Other and more grave nerve affections occasionally follow diphtheria, and may prove fatal, as cardiac paralysis or persistent irritability of the stomach. Rest in bed, generous diet, and tonics, constitute the chief part of the treatment. Strychnia has proved very valuable. Waters, A. T. H., M.D.—On a remarkable Case of Lesion of the Medulla Oblongata, with remarks. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xlvi, p. 115. A man, ret. 23, previously in perfect health, was struck on the left side of the face by a capstan bar, and stunned, but soon recovered. The next day he walked into the hospital with the aid of a man supporting him on each side. He was then perfectly conscious, and answered questions rationally and distinctly, but his articulation was not quite perfect. He complained of slight dizziness of the head, and of a slight numbness of the right side of the face and of the right arm and leg. He was unable to swallow, and had constant hiccough; the face was dusky, the breathing quiet, and the pulse 100, and regular. The tongue was protruded straight, but the uvula deviated to the left. There was partial loss of power of the right side of the face and of the right arm and leg. Both these limbs, however, could be readily raised, but not so easily as those of the opposite side. The pupils were a little dilated, they acted irregularly, and the eyeballs were constantly oscillating. The right side of the face, the right arm, and the right leg, were sensibly of higher temperature than the same parts on the opposite side. Sensation was good on both sides. Beef tea introdviced into the stomach was immediately rejected. He died107 N'BRVOUS SYSTEM. suddenly the same evening. None of the cranial bones or vertebraj were fractured. The substance of the cerebrum was perfectly healthy, and no extravasation was found anywhere ; its cavities were free from fluid eflfu- eion, and the nerves arising from the base, with some exceptions, to be mentioned, were uninjured. The under surface of the right hemisphere of the cerebellum was superficially lacerated. The medulla oblongata, at its right posterior aspect and right side, was the seat of extravasation of blood, which was connected with two lacerations of the nervous structure. The upper of these was found to have divided the right restiform body about its middle, extending behind almost to the median furrow of the fourth ventricle, and in front as far as the line of origin of the eighth pair of nerves. As far as it was possible to judge, this laceration involved the whole or very nearly the whole of the fibres of the restiform body and a portion of the gray matter spread out on the floor of the fourth ventricle. None of the roots of the eighth pair of nerves were torn, but the laceration extended close to the superficial origin of the glosso-pharyngeal and par vagum, and, no doubt, involved their deep fibres. The second laceration was situated just below and to the right of the nib of the calamus scrip- torius. It had divided the posterior pyramid and the tract outside it, which is the continuation of the posterior column of the spinal cord. Its depth was about one sixth of an inch ; it extended from the median fissure to the line of attachment of the posterior roots. A vertical laceration passing down the inner side of the restiform body connected the two transverse. The case shows that the restiform body is not the medium for the transmission of impressions from the posterior roots to the sensorium. Palmer, T., M.D.—On Meflex Hemiplegia. Lancet, Dec. 19th. Palmer records the following case:—A. B—, set. 63, free from any con- stitutional or organic disease, toothless, but in the habit of taking meat, was suddenly seized with left-sided hemiplegia iii April, 1859. '^^"^^^ im- proved materially after a gr. iv dose of calomel; and after six leeches and a few doses of aperient medicine, disappeared in four days. For four years he continued well, except his annual attack of bronchitis. He had much anxiety in business. Early in 1863 he began to 8uff"er from nervous disorders, unbearable restlessness, and oppression in the early morning, severe nervous dyspepsia, inability to attend to business—in fact, various symptoms of cerebral irritation. These were markedly relieved for a time by narcotics, but in a few days their eff'ect was lost, and he was worse than before. A powerful cholagogue of calomel and sulphate of man- ganese at last brought away a large quantity of very offensive faeces, and the patient was permanently relieved. Palmer observes that the result in the second attack shows the hemiplegia of tlie former to have been probably reflex. Laycock, T., M.D.—On the Cerebrospinal Origin, and the Diagnosis of the Protrusion of the Eyeballs termed Ancemic. Edin. Med. Jour., Feb., 1863. Laycock dissents from the view that the symptom in question is the result of ansemia, and refers it rather to disorder of the nervous system. He distributes the cases in which it occurs into various groups :—(i) ThelUOl'OItT ON PRACTICAL IIKDICINK. 108 neuralgic and hysterical. In tliis group there are neuralgic affL-ctions of dilTereut degrees of intensity. Sudden spasms or pains in the precordial region may accompany the palpitation, or orbital pains may complicate the exophthalmos. Or there may be the most striking hypersesthesia of the skin generally, and of the special senses. (2) Paroxysmal. The exophthal- mos and bronchocele may be developed paroxysmally to a considerable ex- tent, but subside so much in the intervals as hardly to be recognisable ; or this may be the case as to the exophthalmos only. (3) Orbital and facial. The nervous symptoms, and especially the palpitations, may be less marked, but myopia, weakness of vision, and orbital and frontal neuralgia accompany the exophthalmos. In these cases there may or may not be bronchocele. (4) Cardiac and cephalic. The symptoms referable to the head and lieart may be strikingly predominant, but the exophthalmos and bronchocele be little marked, especially in the earlier stages. (5) Thyroideal and cervical. Bronchocele, with pulsating thrills in the carotid arteries and the vessels of the thyroid, may be strikingly marked, but no urgent cardiac symptoms or exophthalmos. (6) Complicated cases. Com- plications may either precede or follow the local affections.—{a) There may be uterine disorder, (i) The anaemic condition may be associated with haemorrhages, especially meningeal, gastric, intestinal, and uterine, (c) Rheumatism and rheumatic affections may coincide, (ci) Diathetic degenerations, chiefly atheroma of the arteries involved, as the aorta and ophthalmic and thyroideal arteries, and structural diseases of the thyroid, heart, and pericardiuln. (e) Disease consecutive to these, esjjecinlly dropsies and Bright's disease. He refers the exophthalmos to changes in the motor mechanism of the eyeball and eyelid, induced by changes in that part of the nervous system more particularly connected with the eye, and states that it may be sometimes of cranial, sometimes of spin.il origin. The former is the case when the Casserian ganglion, or trunk of the fifth nerve are diseased, the latter when the upper dorsal nerves (in the dog) are irritated. When of dranial origin, the affection is usually one-sided; when spinal it is symmetrical. Laycock, T., M.D.—On the Causes and Nature of the Vascular kind of Bronchocele, and of the Pulsations and Palpitations termed Ancemic. Edin. Med. Journ., July, 1863. Laycock considers that the connection of diseases of the thyroid gland with the functional activity of the reproductive organs in women affords an important clue to the etiology of the neuro-vascidar form of broncho- cele. He says, " If it can be shown that the female reproductive organs influence, physiologically and pathologically, the thyroid body through the nervous system, as they influence other organs—the manimoe, for example — and if the channel by which this influence is exercised can be shown'to be the cervical or ' oculo-spinal ' region, all necessary proof is adduced." Many years ago Laycock referred the class of nervous and hysterical palpitations to a morbid activity of the dorsal portion of the spinal cord, and he now cites Bezold's researches as corroborating his views. " The connection of the heart with the oculo-spinal region may therefore be assumed as proved, and the violent palpitations which accompany the exophthalmos and the vascular bronchocele are seen to be part of the same cerebro-spinal neurosis."109 NERVOUS SYSTEM. The thrills and pulsations in the head, neck, and thyroid gland, he refers to disorder of vaso-motor centres in the spinal cord, distinct from those which influence the heart. The proximate cause of nervous and anaemic palpitations, pulsations, and thrills, is, according to Laycock, heat locally developed, in consequence of a lesion of the vaso-motor nerves, which raises the temperature both of the arterial tissues and of the blood circu- lating through them, and thereby excites them to that increased activity known as pulsations, throbbing, and the like. The heart is excited by the same stimulus, as Calliburcees' experiments show. The beneficial effect of cold appUcations to the vascular bronchocele contributes evidence con- firmative of these views. On the relations of his subject to neurosis, fevers, inflammations, and anaemia, Laycock observes " that rapid erema- causis of the tissues, and the consequent production of heat, and there- with the increased vascularity which constitute the essential morbid phe- nomena, is obviously but an exaggeration of a natural state common to all hot-blooded animals. If it take place within the cerebro-spinal axis or in particular portions of that axis, then there result the varieties of neurosis which are said to be due to irritation, and not to inflammation, and which are predominantly characterised by exaggerations of function ; if within the heart and large vessels, nervous pulsations and palpitation. But if the morbid state involve the blood itself as well as the vaso-motor system, then a very important additional element in causation is intro- duced ; for if, on the one hand, it be certain that the varying states of that system increase or diminish the eremacausis of the tissues and the pro- duction of heat, so it is equally certain that the condition of the blood, as the nutrient fluid from whence the materials are drawn Avhich keep up the eremacausis, will deeply influence it likewise, and therewith those con- ditions of the tissues themselves M'hich are structural, according to the varying constitution of the blood. And this is what occurs in anaemia, fevers, and inflammations. If a certain kind of blood defect concur with a local vaso-motor defect, involving chiefly the heart and large vessels, the two states are the factors which constitute conjointly the cause of ancemic pulsations, palpitations, and thrills. Here the state of the blood may be considered as the antecedent or predisposing cause. If, however, the two conditions be general, and due to specific causes, then arise the phenomena of specific fevers; or if the general vaso-motor defect be also localized and restricted to an organ or tissue, then arise the phenomena of specific inflammations. Fletcher, J. 0., M.D.—0» Exophthalmic Goitre. Brit. Med. Journ., May 23rd. Fletcher records six cases under his own care, and three under Dr. Thorburn's. He gives numerous references to previous writers on the disease, and quotes the details of several post-mortem examinations. He docs not agree with any of the theories that have been already brought forward, but is inclined to think that the disease consists in hyper- aemia of the brain and sympathetic ; that this hypcri3cmia modifies the primary and secondary assimilation ; that the latter interferes with the normal elimination of one of the primary animal compounds formed in secretion (cholcstcrine ?), and thus induces spauoemia; that this spanremicUEPOllT OX I'llACTlCAL MEDICINE. no 8(nte, noting upon the brain and cardiac nerves, causes the palpitations ; and that the other symptoma arise as a consequence of this peculiar action of the heart and of spaniemia, even up to organic changes in the viscera, heart, and vessels. I'SYCUIATllIK. Clouston, T. S.—Tuberculosis and Insanity. Journ. of Mental Science, April, 1863. The general results to which Clouston's investigations have led him are the following:—(i) Phthisis pulmonalis is much more frequent, as an as- signed cause of death, among the insane than among the general popula- tion, (a) Tubercular deposition is about twice as frequent in the bodies of those dying insane as in the sane. (3) Phthisis pulmonalis is the "assigned cause of death " in only about one half of those in whom tuber- cular deposition is found after death. (4) The brain in the cases of tuberculosis is not so frequently diseased in a marked manner as it is in those dying of other diseases among the insane. In the majority of cases the brain is pale, anaemic, irregularly vascular, with a tendency to soften- ing of the white substance of the fornix and its neighbourhood, and the gray matter of lower specific gravity than in any other cases of insanity. (5) Tubercle is not more frequently found in the nervous centres among the insane than among the sane, and when found it does not in all cases, or even in the majority of them, produce any symptoms, and is not con- nected with any particular form of insanity. (6) Tubercle of the perito- neum is not more frequent among the tubercular insane than among the same class in the sane. In the former it is more frequently associated with melancholia and monomania of suspicion than ordinary tuberculosis of the lungs. (7) The average age at death of the cases of tuberculosis is about three years below the average age at death among the insane generally, and the average age of those in whom much tubercular deposit is found is five years below the general average. (8) The proportion of the tuber- cular who had had previous attacks of insanity is about the same as among the insane generally. (9) There is hereditary predisposition in 7 per cent, more of the cases of tuberculosis than of the insane generally. (10) Monomania of suspicion is the form of insanity in which tubercu- losis is most frequent, and general paralysis stands at the other end of the scale that marks the frequency of tuberculosis in the diflerent forms of insanity ; mania stands ne.\t to general paralysis, and melancholia to mo- nomania of suspicion, while the tendency to dementia in all forms of insanity is greater among the tubercular than among the non-tubercular. A majority of the cases of general paralysis and mania die non-tubercular ; a majority of the cases of melancholia, monomania, and dementia, exhibit proofs of tuberculosis after death. (11) In all the cases of general paralysis who were tubercular the disease had commenced with depres- sion. {12) In a certain number of cases (about one fourth of all those in whom tubercle was found), the insanity is of such a peculiar fixed type that it may be called phthisical mania. In all those cases the phthisis i« developed so soon after the insanity that tubercles must have already formed in the lungs, or a strong tubercular tendency been present, and about to pass into actual tuberculosis when the insanity appeared. WeIll PSYCHIATJUXv. know that the chief characteristic of tuberculosis is an impaired energy in the nutritive processes ; and as a badly nourished bone becomes carious or necrosed for slight causes, or a badly nourished skin becomes subject to parasites, so disordered action results in those imperfectly nourished brain- cells from causes which would not be felt by a healthy brain. It is not the enfeebled nutrition directly so much as the perverted action to which the enfeebled nutrition predisposes that produces the insanity. The peculiar mental state, the incurability of the insanity, the appearance of the brain after death, and its lowered specific gravity, all point to such a cause for the derangement. (13) There is a special relation between deep melancholia, with long-continued suicidal tendencies and refusal of food, and lung disease—either gangrene or tubercular disorganization. (14) There are a few cases in which the insanity is only a kind of delirium, oc- curing during previously developed chronic phthisis, and soon passing off. (15) The prognosis is most unfavorable if tuberculosis occurs in any case of insanity. (16) Half the cases of tuberculosis die within three years after the commencement of the insanity. (17) There is no proof that the " morbid influence of the pneumogastric nerve " has anything to do with the tuberculosis in cases of insanity. (18) Long-continued insanity does not tend to the development of tuberculosis more than to the pro- duction of other diseases. (19) Phthisis is entirely latent in between one third and fourth of all the cases among the insane, and in almost all the others it is latent for a considerable time. This latency is most frequent in general paralysis, in which the majority of the cases of phthisis exhibit no symptoms whatever. (20) There are very few cases where the com- mencement of the insanity benefits the phthisis ; but in a few where the phthisis is very chronic an attack of insanity may be followed by the per- manent disappearance of the phthisical symptoms, or attacks of mania may alternate with symptoms of phthisis. In by far the majority of such cases, however, the phthisical symptoms are merely masked, while the deposition of tubercle goes on. Heschl.—Osterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., viii, 29, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 205. Found in the brain of a melancholic patient, set. 26, an heemorrhagic cavity of the size of a bean, filled with serum and traversed by dege- nerating vessels and connective tissue. The adjacent structure was indurated, and contained several groups of nerve-cells and fibres, partly ossified, partly in process of becoming so. The ossific deposit dissolved in H CI without the development of gas. MiCHEA.—On the Derangements of the Sensations of Hunger and Thirst in the Insane, and on their influence on their Ideas and Actions. Gaz. des Hop., 70, 71, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 206. During stomach digestion some patients become very excited and violent who are calm in the intervals, and in whom there is no notable evidence of dyspepsia. One of them was cured by bismuth and opium. In some cases the sensations of hunger and thirst appear to be quite lost; this condition continued in one patient for eighteen months. Tijis state is mostly met with in the melancholic, while the opposite occurs in states of psychical exaltation, in mania, idiocy, and especially in dementiaEI2P011T ON PfiACTICAL MKDICINE. 112 pnrnlytien. Dipsomnnia is a form of this disordm Perversion of hunger and thirst shows itself in various ways, among which may be mentioned a longing for human flesh, which has caused some lunatics to commit murder that they might gratify this longing. Iodide of potassium is said to have proved beneficial in cases of loss of appetite, opium in cases of immoderate. KoNTNY.— On the use of Opium in Insanity. Preuss. Ver. Ztg., N.F.V., 32, 1862. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 117, p. 208. Kontny records tln-ee cases in which the continued use of opium in gradually increasing doses was of great advantage. The daily amount taken was ultimately twelve grains, the evening dose being increased much more than the morning. The treatment was continued from two to three months. Two of the patients were affected with illusions, one with acute melancholia. Duncan, J. F.—Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Feb., 1863. Kecords three cases of syphilitic affection, producing in the first epilepsy differing in no respect from the ordinary form of the disease, and suc- ceeded, after years of suffering, by symptoms of mental derangement; in the second case epilepsy did not occur at ail, but there was decided insanity ; in the third, insanity took the precedence, and epilepsy followed. The form of mental derangement was different in all the cases. In all a modified mercurial treatment was advantageous, quinine being asso- ciated with the mercurial. EuLENMEYETi; FocKE.—On the emjjloyment of Opium in Psychiatrie. Arch. d. Deulsch. Gef. f. Psych., iii, i, 2; iv, i, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 78. Erlenmeyer states that opium acts best in melancholia, especially in so- called active melancholia, a form which at first sight might be confounded with mania on account of the violent outbreaks of the patients. These are occasioned by the sense of precordial distress, which drives the sufferers about in a restless state. Opium often relieves this, but not invariably. It is necessary to take account of the age and sex of the patients. Women are more prone to suffer from gastric disorder at the commencement of the treatment than men, but they bear large doses better, and the results are more successful. Younger patients recover far more easily and quickly than older, but even this beneficial effect of youth ceases earlier in males than in females. In chronic (passive) melanchoha there is not much to be expected from opium, and in pure mania it is also ineffective. In cases of insanity with fixed delusions opium will probably produce considerable improvement if the delusions are of a melancholy character; but if they are the reverse, if they are of the mngnificent stamp, opium treatment gives no results. In general paralysis, idiocy, and dementia, the drug is of no avail. Focke states the following indications for the use of opium:—(i) The case should be free from any profound anatomical lesion of the brain or cranium as the cause of the disease; therefore opium is a priori contra-indicated in all cases wliere injuries of the head, tumours, meningitis, with its conse- quences, disease of the cerebral vessels, determine mental derangementP3YCHIATIIIK. 113 (2) Oijiiim should not be administered ^vllen there is fever, plethora, cerebral congestion, considerable derangement of the circulation (as in valvular defects), or severe gastric disorder. (3) The more recent the case, the more favorable it is for opium treatment. (4) It is essential to the favorable action of opium that the psychical disturbance should preponderate over the real and illusory impressions which produce it. (5) Those cases are specially suited for opium in which the disease depends on psychical causes', &c. (6) Where there exists a natural irritable condition of the nervous system. Erienmeyer makes the follow- ing remarks as to the action of opium on different organs. Small doses do not usually disorder the digestive system ; larger ones often do, and then, if this disorder does not cease on the mode of administration being changed, the drug must be omitted. In the great majority the appetite docs not fail or improves; this has been remarkably evident in cases of obstinate abstinence from food, where the patients have begun to take food voluntarily. The general nutrition improves, and the bodily weight increases, sometimes very rapidly. If the weight diminishes, a pause must be made in the treatment, or the dose not increased. If the diminution of weight continues, the drug must be omitted, as it is a sign that the system does not tolerate it. If the weight increases without simultaneous improvement of the psychical state, it indicates that the proper dose has not yet been reached. If under the same circumstances the psychical state deteriorates, the opium must either be omitted or given in combination with other means. On the respiratory organs no marked eflect was produced, except that their action was performed more easily. Tlie heart's action was often increased at the commencement of the treatment, and sometimes, especially in the anaemic, there was considerable palpitation. This was quieted by giving cai-bonate of iron along with opium, or, if it occurred in evident paroxysms, by combining quinine with the opium. The urine during the administration of opium was often diminished in quantity, and always became darker, of greater specific gravity, and richer in uric acid and urates. The sexual organs did not appear affected. The influence on the nervous system was the most remarkable—all neuralgic disorders yielded, hallucinations dimi- nished, and sleep was induced. The mode of administration preferred by Focke is a modification of that pursued by Engelken, which consists in giving opium in gradually increasing doses for several weeks together. Engelken begins with from gr. i to iij, according to the general condition of the patient. If in six hours no effect is observed, the dose is doubled. If again there is no efiect, the dose is again doubled in from six to twelve hours, and so on until gr. x or xij are given for a dose, when the drug is omitted, as a further increase would generally be useless. The amount and the frequency of repetition are regulated by the effects. In case of increased excitement or other suspicious symptoms, the dose is mode- rately increased; if the stomach is disturbed, it is diminished, or morphia is substituted. The addition of digitalis (in powder or acid infusion) to the opium seems to be of advantage by regulating the contraction of the vessels. Erienmeyer pursues a more gradual method of administration. He gives usually gr. i, rarely gr. ij, for a daily dose (evening) ; and if no unfavorable symptoms occur, he adds a morning dose. These are in- 8114 REPOllT ON PEACTICAL MKUICINE. creased, ouo or botli, every fourteen days, by gr. i, until the amount reaches lo, 12, or even 16 grains for a dose. BjillTUiuii.—On the Treatment of Clironic Diarrhoea in the Insane. Gaz, des Hop., /i, 1S63. Sclimidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. .347. The disorder in question is of atonic character, and depends on defec- tive innervation. Tlie best treatment consists in the administration of dry roast meat, moistened with some coffee or pure wine. The hygienic arrangements must be good, and no medicines are to be given. The importance of attention to hygiene is evidenced by the comparative iufre- quency of the disorder iu all good asylums. CiiiciiTON Browne, J.—On Mania Ejihemera. Med. Critic and Psy- cholog. J., Jan., 1863. No differential diagnosis, the author states, is yet established between ordinary and ephemeral mania; the following particulars, however, are mentioned in which the two are dissimilar. In a large majority of cases of mania ephemera there are none of those premonitory symptoms which so generally herald the approach of ordinary mania. The sufferer may be weak, ausemic, and in bad bodily health; but until the occurrence of the exciting cause, the mind most commonly remains unclouded. So also during the paroxysm the involvement of the mind seems usually to be less deep and entire than in ordinai-y mania. In ephemeral mania there is generally more regard for cleanliness and decency than in mania proper, and the language also is less blasphemous and obscene. Destructive tendencies and homicidal impulses are frequent in mania ephemera, rendering it a dangerous malady, and one which may easily give rise to medico-legal problems. Many of the epidemic psychopathies which have from time to time appeared seem to have been epidemics of ephemeral mania. The treatment must be conducted on ordinary principles, the object being to calm, support, and give tone. The duration of the attack does not usually exceed forty-eight hours, and the author warns against the mistake of removing the patient to an asylum, which is quite un- necessary. Carmichael McIntosh, W.—On Morbid Impulse. Med. Critic and Psycholog. J., Jan., 1863, There are four ways (as stated by Dr. W. A. F. Browne) in which the onset of the malady may arise, (i) It may arise suddenly, strongly, irresistibly, and precipitate the actor into a course diametrically opposed to his previous character. (2) Or a passion may be nursed and nourished until it obtain dominion over every restraining power. Tendencies in themselves hideous, long subdued by reason and I'eligion, or disguised by prudence, are developed by the decay and deterioration of better ivinciples, by external temptations. (4) Tiie moral sense is warped, as the will or the imagination is, by cerebral disease. The causes of morbid impulse are in a great measure the same as those exciting any form of insanity—hereditary influence, imitative sympathy, favorable opportuni- ties, blood disease, or visceral, cerebral injuries, coup de soleii, epilepsy, exposure to cold, abuse of alcoholic stimulants, bad education, prolonged seclusion, all may have this effect.PSYCUIATRIK. 115 CossTA^s.—Account of an Epidemic of Hysterical Demonomania. Ann. Med. Psychol., Oct. 1862. Med. Critic and Psycliolog. J., Jan., The inhiibitauts of Morzines, a small commune in Haute Savoie, live in a state of great poverty and bad hygiene. This epidemic had lasted about four years, and affected as many as ixo out of a population of 2000. Those affected were termed possessed ; they were mostly celibates, chloro-ancEmic, or scrofulous, and suffered from gastralgia or dysme- norrhcea. Everything gave occasion for a paroxysm, especially the e.\prcssion of a doubt that they were possessed. The phenomena were partly hysterical, partly maniacal. The affected retained sufficient con- sciousness not to injure or expose themselves in the most disordered actions. The epidemic was arrested by removing the priest, and inti- midating the people by the presence of soldiers. McLeod, Kenneth, '^.D.—Hydrocyanic Acid in the Treatment of Insanity. Med. Tim. and Gaz., March 14th, 21st. The author has treated more than forty patients with this remedy, during a period exceeding six months, and the results have been highly satisfac- tory. (I) The symptom which has in every case indicated the adminis- tration of the drug is excitement, the manifested excess of cerebral activity which almost invariably accompanies or assists in constituting most forms of acute insanity, however caused or conditioned. This in- crease of manifested energy may consist in an excessive activity of any or all of the representative faculties—gesture, feature, voice, or an intensified action of the brain itself, resulting in a morbid rapidity of ideation. This excessive and purposeless cerebral vigour (hypernoia, as McLeod terms it) may coexist with more or less mental derangement. It may be an utter delirium, in which reason and design are totally wanting, or may exist along with incoherence and delusions of all sorts and degrees, and with one or several active propensities—erotic, destructive, dirty, homicidal, suicidal, &c. It forms the element of acuteness in many different forms of insanity, is the main object of various medicines and plans of remedial treatment—morphia, antimony, warm bath, douche, emetic, purge, &c. Its degree measures alike the gravity of the disease and the success of treatment, the paranoia or faculty disorganization being subsequently removed mainly by tonic, dietetic, and moral means. (II) The effect in every case has been very manifest. It has been almost purely psychical, consisting in a very remarkable, sudden, or gradual cessation of hyper- noetic manifestations, with or without the induction of sleep. "While its repeated exhibition has never failed to have some calmative effect, this has varied according to the circumstances of the case, and has occurred in all degrees, from the gradual, shght, and temporary, to the immediate, absolute, and permanent, (i) In cases of mania and melancholia of great severity and long duration, with organic disease of the brain and body, its calmative action has been more slowly produced, with more difficulty maintained, more evanescent and futile. (2) In recent cases of mania and melancholia, where no grave structural change exists, and the morbid condition has not become so stereotyped by constant repetition of similar changes, its exhibition has been followed by an immediate and sustained116 REPORT ON PIUCTICAL MEDICINE. change for tlie better. (3) In the violent paroxysmal mania of epilepsy and general paresis, in menstrual mania, and acute melancholic paroxysms, a single administration, or a few full doses at short intervals—have elfectu- nlly dispelled the paroxysm. The eflect is thus of two sorts—(i) Im- mediate: in a few minutes, one to five generally, a patient who has just been shouting, chattering, dancing, swearing, thumping, &c., becomes settled and quiet, sits upon a seat, and perhaps fails into a sound sleep. And (2) gradual: the patient becoming, as the hypernoia is thus from time to time warded off, more rational, companionable, and useful. Whilst changes in psychical manifestation are thus very obvious and striking, concomitant physical phenomena are very obscure or wanting. Only in two cases have I observed a very decided change in the character of the pulse, whicli became slower, weaker, and in one slightly irregular. In two other cases, in which a slight over-dose was given, a semi-comatose condition was induced, with complete adynamia, partial ptosis, the accumulation of frothy saliva, pallor, slight affection of breathing and pulse,—phenomena almost exactly resembling those immediately preceding an epileptic paroxysm. (Ill) The dose has varied from n\ij to lll^vj ; v\v is the most con- venient, and if the effect is not promptly established, a repetition every quarter of an hour effectually secures it. The effect is rather evanescent, and has been observed in some cases to disappear within an hour; but if a slight degree of hypernoia recurs, a subsequent administration is apt to have a more potent effect. The interval may vary according to the nature and exigencies of the case and the effect produced. It may be ad- ministered either by the mouth or by subcutaneous injection. For the latter the dose recommended is v\v combined with Di^xxx of water. (IV) The advantages of the drug in comparison with other calmatives antl hypnotics are—(i) The rapidity, certainty, and simplicity of its effects. (2) Its manageability and freedom from any cumulative property. (3) The absence of any disagreeable concomitant or consequent physical dis- turbance, which most other analogous modes of remedial treatment possess. (4) Its small bulk, want of colour, and its miscibility. (5) Its want of repulsive smell and taste. (6) Its not impairing appetite and digestion, but rather improving both. Besides its great value as a simple quieter in cases of mania and melancholia and in maniacal and melancholic paroxysms it renders still more important service. McLeod has no doubt, from his experience, that it has the power promptly of staying cases running on to chronic insanity on the one hand or exhaustion and death on the other, and of obtaining simply and satisfactorily results which arc at present aimed and arrived at by boiling a patient in hot batlis, half drowning him in douches, narcotizing with opium or morphia, nauseating with tartar emetic, exhausting with purging, roasting with blister, or de- bilitating with lancet, leech, or cup. RoBEKTSON, C. L,, M.B.—Remarks on the use of Digitalis in fhe Treat- mentof Insanity Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 3rd. In cases of general paresis, during the second stage, that of mental alienation, with symptoms of maniacal excitement, Robertson's experience leads him to regard digitalis, in 5ss doses of the tincture, two or three times a day or oftcncr, as quite specific. It calms the excitement and cnabksPSYCHIATllIK. 117 the patient to pass without wear or irritation through this stage of the malady. Its action has been to steady the pulse, and thus apparently to supply the brniu better with blood, and so to obviate the tendency then ex- isting to effusion of scrum, consequent on the inflammatory process going on, as we believe, in this stage of the disease in the arachnoid and pia mater. JlAUcfi, L, V.—On Senile Dementia, and the differences between it and General Parnhjsis. L'Union Med., May 28th, 1863. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1863. Marco, from his experience at the Bicctre, concludes that—(i) Senile de- mentia does not constitute a distinct morbid entity. It is in reality an ag- gregate of symptoms pertaining to different organic affections of tlie brain, and notably to apoplexy and softening. (3) It is made up of two scries of symptoms—those ou the one hand of motihty, which becomes more or less affected ; those on the other hand of intelligence, chiefly a progressive enfceblement, to which is superadded maniacal or melancholic delirium. (3) The disturbances of motility are always explained by organic lesions in the course or at the origin of the motor fibres. To cnfeeblemcnt of in- telligence there correspond atrophy of the convolutions, fatty infiltration, and more or less complete obliteration of the capillaries of the cortical layer, and atheromatous degeneration of the cells of the nerve-tubes. (4) Senile dementia may be distinguished from general paralysis in most cases by tiie signs above alluded to. In an anatomico-pathological, point of view, these two diseases have atrophy and fatty degeneration of the tubes and cells as a common terminal result. But in general paralysis this atrophy is consecutive to a plastic exudation, which, arising around the Avail of the capillaries, gives rise to adhesions between the pia mater and the cortical layer, diminishes the calibre of the vessel which it compresses, and obstructs the circulation of the blood. In senile dementia, on the contrary, the obliteration is consecutive to atheromatous deposits, which arise spontaneously in the capillaries, in consequence of advance of age and diminution of assimilative force. Flinzer.—On Insane Colonies. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 230. After citing a great number of authorities who have expressed their - opinion respecting the institutions at Glieel and similar institutions, he states that all who have given their attention to the subject agree that Gheel, in spite of its many imperfections and deficiencies, shows how a large number of insane patients can be taken care of without isolating them or shutting them up in asylums; that many patients bear a greater amount of liberty than is usually believed, and that a family life is quite pleasant to them, and agrees well with them. It is, however, extremely important that the cases sent to such institutions should be properly- selected, only the comparatively tranquil and more chronic cases being suitable to be placed there. The circumstances at Gheel are so peculiar from its antiquity, the long habituation of its population with the care of the insane, and its religious traditions, that it is scarce possible to think of reproducing it exactly elsewhere. The most practical idea seems to be to have a colony, more or less resembhng Gheel, attaclicd to an asylum, from which proper cases could be at various times trau-^ferred, and to which any could return, who were found unfit for extra-asylum life.REPORT ON PHACTICAL JIEDICINE. 118 Report on the Occurrence of Aural Ilcematomata in thelnaane. Schmidt's Jnlirb., vol. 117, p. 77. Twelve cases are recorded, nnd the question of the mode of origin of these formations is then taken up. Some regard it as merely traumatic, others believe it to depend only on some internal dyscrasia. The latter state that they occur especially in paralytic idiots and in the chronic forms of mania and melancholia. When they are observed in other more acute forms of mania they indicate a transition into a more chronic con- dition. Jung, however, does not think that they make the prognosis neces- sarily bad, and affirms that cures are not infrequent in patients who have had them. Sometimes even they seem to have a critical character. In pa- ralytics they especially appear when the cerebral disease, by impairing the innervation, has made the circulation weak and irregular, and occasioned oedema, ecchymosis, and local gangrene. Hoematomata are much more frequent in men than in women. They occur in docile patients and in those who after recovery make no complaint of having been ill-treated by their attendants. They affect most often the upper and outer parts of the cartilage, most rarely the helix ; sometimes they seem to move gradually from above downwards. Jung thinks that hsematomata may originate in two ways, either by active congestion, or by passive haemorrhage. The first form causes less change than the other, and appears to depend on paralysis of vaso-motor nerves and loss of resisting power in the walls of the vessels. It is most frequent in exacerbations of chronic forms of insanity, witliout any suspicion of paralysis. The second variety of hsematoma results from general disorder of nutrition, dyscrasis of the blood and nutrient fluids, and is similar to hsematomata of the dura mater. By those who maintain the traumatic origin of the disorder it is objected that it is extremely rare whenever the patients are well looked after and taken care off, so that in the Vienna asylum, containing 700 lunatics, no instance has occurred during six years. They also remark that no prodromata are observed, nor any gradual development and decline of the disorder; and further, that it mostly occurs in patients who are refractory and obstinately resist the administration of food and necessary attention. As regards the patho- logical anatomy, it seems generally agreed now that the effusion of blood is not under the skin, but under the perichondrium, and that it is the shrinking up of this membrane and the formation of fresh cartilage in Layers or nodules on its inner surface which give rise to the thickening of the ear. The hsematoma is described as a larger or smaller tumour, tense, usually fluctuating, hemispherical, circumscribed, the skin over which is normal, of a bluish-red tint. It appears suddenly, remains a long time stationary, and disappears after some months, leaving the ear variously deformed. Some recommend early incisions and pressure, others prefer leaving it quite alone. MUSCULAH SYSTEM. ZuRADELLi, CRTS.—On the different kinds of Contractions of the Muscirs of the Arm, especially of that simultaneously affecting the Biceps ayid Supinator Loiiyus. Gaz. Lomb., 4, 6, 7, 8, 1861. Schniidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 166. The disease is rarely idiopathic, mostly symptomatic; more frequent119 MDSCULAH SYSTEM. where rheumntism is endemic, and as the result of gout, and in the right arm It usually commences so gradually that the contraction is not observed until it has become very marked. The principal symptoms are pain, wean- ness, and sense of weight of the limb; atrophy of the whole arm pro- gressing rapidly ; permanent flexion and inextensibility of the forearm on the arm ; a tense state of the biceps, supinator longus, and coraco-brachi- alis ; permanent supination of the forearm ; weakening of the arm in pro- portion to the degree of contraction, and impairment of its movements, those of the hand remaining free. The contraction sometimes affects only a part of the above-mentioned muscles, as, e.g., one head of the biceps, or only one of the three. As predisposing causes, Zuradelli mentions the male sex, the earlier period of life, and hereditary tendency to rheumatism and gout. As exciting causes, pressure of various kind on the axillary nerves, violent shocks to the arms, dislocations, fractures with shortening, over exertion of the arm, exposure to cold and wet, and the endermic application of strychnia. The form of the disease may be tonic, clonic, or mixed. The clonic causes less pain, is not uncommon in the commencement of chorea, is often followed by paralysis, and belongs more to the period of youth and childhood. A peculiar form, distinguished by fibrillary contractions, is almost always dependent on spinal cord disease. The diagnosis from contraction occasioned by apoplexy and softening is determined chiefly by the antecedents, and concomitant symptoms in other parts. In paralysis of the radial nerve the loss of power is more extensive. Injury to or suppuration of the muscles, leaves its own traces. Disease of the cer- vical vertebrae, causing contraction of the brachial muscles, will be recog- nised by its local effects. The principal complications are neuralgia, hypersesthesia, and muscular rheumatism, loss of muscular consciousness, gout with stiffening exudation, and cerebral congestion. Idiopathic con- traction seldom lasts less than three months ; symptomatic is longer or shorter, according to its causes. The prognosis is not very hopeful, espe- cially when organic changes have occurred, in very young persons, and after the disease has lasted a long time. In rheumatic and nervous con- tractions there is more prospect of recovery. The following definitions are given of the different kinds of contraction :—(i) Cerebral, produced by any brain disease, affecting the flexors, or individual parts of them; rarely permanent at first, disappearing without evident cause, and showing, sooner or later, signs of cerebral congestion, which terminates in apoplexy. (2) Spinal, usually the most extensive, affecting flexors and extensors, almost never limited to one limb, at least for any length of time, conjoined with grave symptoms, as loss of sensibility and easily detected by the pre- sence of manifest disease in the cervical part of the cord. (3) Reflected, accompanying severe neuralgia, of short duration, and either entirely vanishing or passing into other pathological conditions. (4) Rheumatic, ■which follow muscular rheumatism, accompanying gout, or are produced by rheumatism of the braciiial nerves themselves. (5) Nervous, occurring in irritable individuals, and from various toxic agents. (6) Muscular, depending on direct lesion of the muscles, over-exertion, &c. The object of of treatment is, on the one hand, to relax the contracted, and on the other, to stimulate the paretic (antagonist) muscles. General baths are found to relax the contracted muscles, and though the effect is not permanent, yetKKPOIIT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 120 something is gniiied by each bath, and the electric contractility of the mus- cles is increased. The baths are most desirable when a notable amount of atrophy exists. Compression or division of the external cutaneous nerve sometimes produces permanent paralysis of the muscles supplied by it; sometimes only removes the contraction for a time. Gentle traction and elongation of the contracted muscles by suitable apparatus is useful, and so also is exercise of the antagonists. In cases of paralysis of tlie anta- gonists, strychnine, if borne Avell for twenty days, is very likely to be speedily successful. Mineral mud applied to the affected limb is bene- ficial in cases of organic attenuation from gout or other causes. Fara- dization of the antagonist muscles and of the skin is recommended; the latter has a magical effect in recent cases. In acute cases of rheumatic character general and local bleeding, followed by quinine and narcotics, do good service. Bkenner.—Petersb. Med. Zeitschr., iv, p. 197, 1863. Advises the use of the constant galvanic current to very atrophied muscles before the induced, which otherwise may prove injurious by stimulating the weak muscular fibres beyond their powers. He thinks that the constant current improves the nutrition of remaining muscular fibres, and causes the formation of new ones. Malmsten.—On Progressive Muscular Atrophy. Hygiea, vol. xxiii, p. 5^5. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 31. Malmsten has observed three cases, one of which ended fatally. At the autopsy no change was found in the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. Malmsten regards the disease as a primary muscular affection— (1) Because, of the muscles which derive their nerves from the same trunk, one is often seriously involved, while the others appear quite healthy. (2) Because in palsies depending on affections of the nerves the muscle, though its function is lost, remains for sonic time unchanged in structure, which is not the case in progressive muscular atrophy. Malmsten is dis- posed to adopt Oppolzer's view, that the disca?e consists essentially in a chronic parenchymatous inflammation of the muscles, the exudixtion taking place into the fibres leading to their degeneration and decay. Taylok, F.'—Med. Times and Gaz., July Tith. Kecords a case of paralysie musculaire atrophique successfully treated, after other means had failed, by Pot. lod. in doses of gr. v ter die. The patient was a strong, healthy looking man, wlio had scarcely known a day's illness. In seven days the paralysis, which commenced in the feet, had extended upwards, and involved all the limbs, and even to some extent the facial muscles, which were agitated with a kind of fibrillary quivering or tremor. This tremor was not apparent in the muscles of the limbs. Great muscular atrophy ensued in both the upper and lower extremities; the power of articulation, deglutition, and respiration, was perfect, sensation being developed to its highest degree. The sphincters remained quite efiicient. After the disease had continued seven weeks the iodide was commenced, and in about two months he had completely recovered.121 CIECULATOUY SYSTEM. ToMjrASi.—L'Union, 114, 1863. Records a case of progressive paralysis of the tongue, palate, and hps, occurring in a man tet. 48. It had existed eight montlis when the patient came under treatment. At tlie end of three weeks, by daily Fara- dization, the power of voluntary motion was restored, thougli the voice liad still a nasal twang, and the letter r was pronounced imperfectly. Two months later the improvement was still maintained. CiaCULATORY SYSTEM. :Marey ; Mach, E. ; DucHEK, A.; Betz, Y.—On the Pulse. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 87. Marey's instrument (v. 'J. de la Physiol.,' April, i860) is said to be much simpler and more convenient than Vierordt's. The varying amount of vascular tension seems to be the chief cause of the varying curves which the instrument describes under different circumstances. The fre- quency of the pulse M. believes to depend (i) ou the influences which affect the heart through the nervous system; (2) on the amount of resist- ance offered to the heart's contraction, which is in a direct ratio to the arterial tension. Duchek (' Wien. Ztschr.,' xviii, 1862) approves of Marey's sphygmograph, and describes the results of his observations with it. He contends that dicrotisra of the pulse is in no way dependent on the heart or the great vessels, but upon each individual vessel, according to the laws which regulate the motion of waves in elastic tubes. Myrtle, A. S., M.D.—Lancet, May 30th. Records a case of ana2mic sphacelus, as he terms it. A military man, strongly built and of sanguine temperament, cet. 46, healthy looking, and having enjoyed uniform good health in spite of seven years' active service in the tropics and in the Crimea, complained of the following affection. The fingers of both hands, especially those of the right, are pale and cold; the right little finger, from its point to its middle, feels cold as ice, and its ungual phalanx is blue—looks as if dead ; under the tops of each nail, and extending across, there is a purple line about one tenth of an inch in breadth. The thumbs and the rest of both hands are natural. The last phalanx only of the right little finger is devoid of sensation. The cars are much colder than natural, have a mottled appearance, and exhibit on the outer and posterior part of each helix a number of ecchy- mosed patches. Heart's action normal, but weak. Five days later he passed a sleepless night, having been kept awake by severe and constant burning pain in the feet and toes; the feet were pale, cold, and clammj'', the extremities of the toes being bluish, and tender to the touch ; the fingers, except the little one, were well, and the ears nearly so. The ex- tremity of the right little finger became gangrenous, and was removed by Mr. Walter Coulson, who was satisfied by careful examination that there was no disease in the arteries. Myrtle is of the same opinion, and thinks that all the symptoms arise from—(r) feeble action of the heart, and (2) lowering of the vitality from deficiency of nerve force. Citrate of iron and quinine seems to have been most beneficial as a remedy.REPORT ON l'UA.CTIC:VL MEDICINE. IlABEUsnoN, S. 0., M.D.—On Idiopathic Anccmia. Lnncet, May 9th, i6i\\. llnberlioii enumerates tlie ciiuses of nnteniiana—(i) Those which interfere with the proper re-formntion or the renewal of the blood, as diseased glands, mesenteric or lymplintic, &c. (2) Causes operating directly on the blood itself, as the effect of physical agents, mercury, water, alkalies ; so also the actual loss of blood in the different forms of hajmorrhage ; here also we may mention albuminuria, and perhaps ague poison. (3) Excessive waste, the demand upon the nutritive power of the system being greater than the compensative supply ; thus, although the blood may be re-formed properly, that renewal is not sufficient to compensate for the constant loss which takes place from exhaustive discharges. He poses the question whether some forms of anajmia may not be correctly attributed to di- minished power in the sympathetic centres rather than to the organs •which they influence. A case is related, ending fatally, where the symp- toms were frequent vomiting, occurring sooner or later after food ; aching post-sternal pain, increased by food and vomiting ; a burning sensation in the shoulders and back, pallor and emaciation. While taking strychnia gr. yV, she was attacked with very severe pain, and such sudden extreme prostration that it seemed as if perforation had taken place. With small doses of morpliia she improved very much, and became able to take animal food with appetite. About nine months after her discharge she returned to the hospital, blanched, emaciated, and extremely feeble. No pain was now felt after food; there was no vomiting, and no evidence of disease of the stomach. The urine was normal, and the blood-globules appeared healthy under the microscope. She was, however, unable to take food, even nutrient enemata could not be borne, and she gradually sank and died. Except some fatty degeneration of the heart, there was no morbid change. She had resided in a damp, unhealthy locality, and had been scantily supplied with the necessaries of life. Habershon does not find that pepsine is of service in these cases ; small doses of mix vomica or strychnia are apt to cause faintness; but quinine and iron given in pills, with a little aloes and henbane, often agree exceedingly well. In the worst cases no treatment avails, the stomach becomes apparently incapable of tolerating the presence of food, even when the patient can be persuaded to swallow it; and in proportion as the nervous exhaustion increases, the morbid state of the stomach is also aggravated ; the one reacts upon the other, each in- creasing the other's defect. GliLTNEAU.—Epidemic Angina Pectoris. Gaz. des H6pit., ir4, 117, 120, 1862. The " Embuscade" corvette, with a crew of 250 men, during several years was rapidly passing and repassing between the cold latitudes of Chili or California and the hot climate of Mexico and central America. These sudden changes of temperature, together with the careless mode of life of the men and other injurious external influences, had previously induced attacks of neuralgia, scurvy, and colic. After some days of stormy weather, in the neighbourhood of St. Helena, angina pectoris ap- peared. Most of the persons attacked were anremic and scorbutic. The pain always began at the sternum, and was more violent in proportion as I123 CIECULATOUY SYSTEM. it nppronched nearer to the heart, which it always reached. It was at- tended with a sensation of imminent death. The pulse was for the most part slow and small; in many cases, however, the heart palpitated with extraordinary violence, and its impulse was forcible. During the attacks the patients were unable to speak, and after it was over they spoke in a low voice and in single syllables. Eructation occurred in eight patients after the attack, and gave relief; in three or four, towards the close of tlie attack, there were nausea and vomiting. Treatment consisted in cupping, the local application of anaesthetics, and the administration of narcotics. Gbandidier.—Report on Hesmophily, continued from the last in 1854. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 329. The disease appears to be gradually, though slowly, on the increase. In 1820 there were known to exist only 11 bleeding families, in 1839 there were 46, in 1849 100, in 1854 152. The number now is 174, and that of haeraophilic individuals has increased from 452 to ^12. As to geo- graphic distribution, it appears that of all known cases 48 per cent, belong to Germany, 18 per cent, to Great Britain, 9 per cent, to Switzerland and North America, and 8'^ per cent, to France. The most northerly limit of the disease is 61° N., at Christiania ; the most southerly at Palembang, in the East Indies. It has been met with at an elevation of 5000 feet, atTenna a hamlet of the Rheetiau Alps, as well as in the plains of Holland and North Germany. In 2^6 cases of spontaneous haemorrhage epistaxis occurred 122 times, in 11 there was haematemesis; in 33 the intestines, in 34 the oral cavity, in 13 the urethra, in 15 the lungs were the seat. Four times haemorrhage took place from the tips of the fingers, 4 times from a swollen part of the scalp, 3 times from the tongue, 3 times from the ear, once from the eyelid, and 10 times from the female genitals. It has often been observed that the haemorrhagic tendency has shown itself in a much more marked manner after the first artificial bleeding; so much so, that the disease has appeared to date from that time. On more extensive inquiry, however, it seems that the kind of bloodletting has much to do with the result. Venesection and cupping do not seem to be anything like so dangerous as leeching and tooth-drawing. One child of three months old is reported by Dr. Henschel, in New York, to have died from bleeding which took place from the scratch made in vaccination. Vieli states that in the subjects of this tendency wounds appear at first to heal favorably; it is not until about the eighth day that the wounded part swells and becomes so painful that syncope and convulsions ensue not unfrequently. A vesicle then forms, which bursts and bleeds, whereupon those symptoms remit, but recur if an attempt is made to arrest the haemorrhage. If this succeeds, the tumour, which is of spongy character, dries up, falls off, and leaves a simple ulcer. The loss of blood is often very considerable, but Vieli and others assert that, as a rule, these iiscmo- philic patients bear the largest losses without injury. Sliglit contusions have often given rise in such persons to enormous effusions of blood, either under the skin, between the muscles, or in the visceral cavities. In some there seems to be an unusual tendency to rheumatoid pains and articular swellings. Occasionally the haemorrhagic tendency ceases, or is replaced by some other disease. Asthma, gout, and white swelling, arellEPOltT OX PRACTICAL JIEDICINE. those which are cspecinlly mentioned. In the great majority of cases, however, death ensues from external or internal bleeding and anaemia, and life is seldom jjrolonged beyond the twcntietli year. Out of 153 males, 19 only survived this period. As to the quality of tiie blood in the lioemophilic, repeated observation has shown that the blood at first shows 110 deficiency in fibrinc, but coagulates well, and that it is not until a later period that its solids diminish and it becomes hydramiic. The same is the case with the red corpuscles, though, after a long continuance of the bleeding, both are relatively diminished. The morbid anatomy of this disorder has hitherto taught us very little of its nature. Tlie only morbid condition which seems to have been frequently observed is a thinness of the arterial coats, a kind of atrophy. This, liowever, only applies to the largervessels. In a fatal case described by Virchow the minute arteries and capillaries, as well as the nerves, presented nothing abnormal on micro- scopic examination. V. Biirenspruug states the same of a case of fatal gastric hicmorrhnge. Recent inquiries show that there are but i female to II male hfcmophilic. Grandidier, however, affirms that the disease is not uncommon in the female sex, only that it is partially and incompletely developed. Though the disease occurs at the earliest periods of life, it seems that spontaneous hsiemorrhage from the umbilical cord is but seldom owing to this cause, as in 202 cases of this kind there were only 14 hfemophilics. Seven Jewish children of liEcmorrhagic tendency had no heemorrhage on separation of the umbilical cord, but considerable on the performance of circumcision. The period of the first dentition is that when the tendency most often makes its first appearance, but it has been delayed as late as the twenty-second year. The hEsmophilic have for the most part a soft, white, translucent skin, with manifestly developed veins, light hair, and blue eyes; black hair and dark eyes are much more rare. There is nothing remarkable in the secretions. Both town and country residents, both rich and poor, are liable to the hsemorrhagic tendency, and it appears that an abundant diet, consisting mostly of nitrogenous articles, affords no immunity. Hsemophilic parents appear to be uncommonly fruitful, 21 families producing together 204 children, which gives about 9? children to each family. As to the origin and propagation of haemo- philia, it appears that among 98 families the disease appeared for the first time in 46 with the patient whose history is given, while in 52 hereditary transmission from parents, grand-parents, or their sisters, was made out. Among the congenital cases the parents or grand-parents were quiie healthy 20 times, while in 26 they suffered from other diseases, as gout, scrofula, syphilis, pulmonary or cardiac affections. It seems that the female has mucli more to do with the origin of the disease than the male parent, inasmuch as in cases where the fatlier has been married several times one wife has produced healthy and the other hoemophilic children. It also appears that violent mental emotions during lactation have not only caused the child suckled at that time to become hemophilic, but the future progeny also. Grandidier has no complete theory of the disease to offer, but thinks that disordered innervation of the vessels and altered tone of the capillaries play an important part, giving rise to congestion and stasis, and probably also to local active determinations of blood. Increased action of the heart, which frequently occurs, he explains by the increased125 CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. amount of red globules in the blood. As to diagnosis, the only diseases ■with which hsemophilia can well be confounded are scurvy and purpura. The distinction rests chiefly on these points—that the latter affections are never congenital or inherited ; that they occur as epi- or en-demics ; that hffiraorrhage in them is never so violent, obstinate, or frequent as in hfcmophilia ; and that traumatic lesions do not give rise to such profuse and exhausting loss of blood. Further, in scurvy there is a much greater tendency to decomposition of all the secretions, to formation of ulcers, destruction of the gums, and to sero-sanguineous exudations in the serous cavities. As to prognosis, Grandidier states—(i) That when one parent only is affected, the progeny is much more likely to suffer when the mother is hfeniophilic than when the father is. (2) Wlieu one parent belongs to an hcemophilic familj', without actually inheriting the disorder, there is a great difference whether this is the male or female. If the former, there is no reason to apprehend that his children, by a healthy wife, will suffer from the affection. In the latter case there is much probability that some of their offspring will be haemophilic, the mother appearing to act as a " conductor" of the disease, though she herself escapes. (3) If both parents come of bleeding families, or are themselves bleeders, the probability that their offspring will be so is, of course, much increased; and Grandidier expresses the opinion that such unions should be legally interdicted. As to treatment, it is evident that the means employed must be different during the time of the hsemovrhages and in their inter- vals. In the latter, the aim of the practitioner should generally be to lower the abnormally increased action of the heart, and to diminish the tendency of the system to local oi-gasm and active determination of blood. In former times V.S. was employed for this purpose, but it is now laid aside as too dangerous in these subjects. Digitalis, nauseating drugs, and cooling neutral salts, are found more suitable. Of the latter, sulphate of soda is stated to have a well-established reputation, and to be looked upon almost as a specific. It is, of course, not to be administered when the crasis of the blood is seriously altered, and exhaustion is imminent. Another indication is to raise and strengthen the resisting power and the energy of the capillaries. For this purpose acetate of lead, preparations of iron, and ergotin, are recommended. They are not, liowever, to be used in the period of congestion and vascular excitement, but later. Some cures are recorded by means of chalybeate waters (Schwalbach and Pyrmonl). When hsemorrhages actually occur, styptics must be em- ployed ; yet even in this case one must not be too hasty to arrest sponta- neous bleeding by local repressants, so long as there appears no sign of danger, for fear that other htemorrhages, such as internal, should ensue, or convulsive and apoplectic attacks. One must rather endeavour to calm the vascular excitement and to lessen the tendency to local determination by suitable general treatment. Of the various local means employed for the arrest of haemorrhage, pressure, following a slight application of nitrate of silver, seems to be most successful, in parts where it can be borne. Perchlo- ride of iron has often been used, but without any remarkable advantage. Mercury, in any way of administration, is to be siiunned; it seems to be specially injurious to the hcemophilic, and its use in several cases has been followed by external and internal hBcmorrhage. Lastly, as to the dis-llEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 126 tinction between spontaneous lioemorrlinges from the umbilical cord in newly born children and hoemophilia, the following points have been ascertained.—(i) Tliese hcemorrhages are rare in hcemophilic children. (z) In these hscmorrhages the causa mali appears to consist in a disor- dered crasis of the blood, whereas in hsemophilia the tone of the vessels is more at fault. (3) These hiiimorrhages are characterised by the fre- ([uent occurrence of jaundice and organic disease of the liver. (4) Hereditary transmission is of rare occurrence in the umbilical iisemor- rhages, whereas it is common in the hajmophilic. In the latter affection, also, the mothers are commonly free, and only act as conductors of the tendency, but in the former they exhibit manifestations of disease of the blood. ( 5) The females are much oftener affected in umbilical haemor- rhage than in haemophilia. (6) No subsequent tendency to hsemorrbage is noticed in those who recover from the umbilical. Stauk.—On Cardiac Cyanosis. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. 177. Out of 46 recorded cases which he examined, he found that in 37 there were 22 males and 15 females. The most frequent anomaly was contrac- tion of the pulmonary artery (13 out of 42) ; the rarest, fusion of the aorta and pulmonary artery (i case). Patients in whom only the fora- men ovale was open reached the most advanced age. Contraction and obliteration of the pulmonary artery is not so dangerous to life, according to Stark's figures, as was previously supposed. The greatest proportion {\) of the cases died before the end of the third year, one tenth between the ages of 3 and 14, and one sixth between those of 11 and 18. Two cases afforded evidence that the power of procreation existed. The tem- perature was not always lowered, in 4 it was normal. Phthisis pulmo- nalis was a frequent complication ; it was present in 7 out of 42 cases. Stabk, Th.—Arch, der Heilk., iv, p. 47, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 45. Reports four cases of chlorosis in which there was evident dilatation of the heart, which again disappeared as recovery took place under the use of iron. Wales, Ph., M.D.—Amer. Jour, of Med. Sc., July, 1863. Records the case of a man dying with arachnitis and cerebritis, in whom there was found a very large circumscribed aneurism of the walls of the left ventricle. It almost appeared as if the heart was double. The aneurismal pouch had a capacity of four ounces, and was enclosed in a hard calcareous case, except at its orifice and apex. Ltjithler, W.—Insufficiency of the Mitral Valve, without Organic Change. Wurt. Corr. Bl., xxxii, 20, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 40. Luithler records a case just like one of Bristowe's (see 'Year-book,' 1862, p. 183), in which there was general dilatation of the heart, undue length of the cordse tendiute, and, as trials on the dead body showed, insufficiency of the valve, which, however, had undergone no morbid change. Luithler believes that in cases of this kind there must be not only general dilatation of the heart, but especially of the ventricle con* cerned, with thinning of its walls,127 CIRCUL^VTOKY SYSTEM. liEGBiE, J. Wahburton, M.U.— On the Biagnostic Value of an Accentu- ated Cardiac Second Sound. Edin. Med. Journ., June. The author finds, as the result of careful observation, that, excluding the accentuated pulmonary second sound and the intensified aortic second sound in some cases of hypertrophy and dilatation of the left ventricle, the accentuated second sound in the aorta is an indication of aortic aneurism or of dilatation of the aorta associated with atheromatous degeneration. If it be the former, the aneurism probably does not arise \yithiu the pericardium, and probably does not afi'ect the ascending por- tion of the arch, but has most likely its seat in the transverse portion. To distinguish betvi'een the two—in other words, to know when the accentuated second sound is due to aneurism and when to dilatation of the aorta—is not always easy. Reliance is chiefly to be placed on the associated physical signs in the former case, more particulai-ly promi- nence, pulsation, extended percussion dulness, and the signs of internal pressure. If atheromatous dilatation exist, and that is the special condi- tion, independent of aneurism, which gives rise to the accentuated second sound, there will probably be more or less pulsation in the jugular fossa, atheromatous condition of superficial pulses (radials, temporal arteries, &c.) noticeable, and probably the arcus senilis. The following points appear to be of importance in endeavouring to explain the mechanism of an accentuated second sound, under the circumstances now considered, (i) The condition of the vessel, both in cases of aneurism and of dilata- tion with atheromatous degeneration, being such as greatly to diminish, if not to destroy, the support given to the circulation by the artery, these results are increased recoil of blood on the closing or closed valves. (2) It is possible that a morbid condition of the valvular apparatus itself heightens or intensifies the sound. The valves are not incompetent, but in such cases they are sometimes found thickened, and even presenting a hard surface at parts. (3) Something may be due to the increased calibre of the vessel, in connection with the altered condition of its inter- nal tunic, in causing the peculiarity of sound. Kaulioh.—On Diseases of the Organs of Circulation, as observed at Prague, in Prof. JakscICs Clinic. Prag. Vjhrschr., Ixxiii, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. i (7, p. 291. Kaulich states, as regards endocarditis, that the diagnosis was founded more on consecutive clinical phenomena than on the presence of any murmur. He considers that everything is to be regarded as a murmur, which is usually designated as an indefinite, extended, or diffused sound^ though it may by no means justify the assumption that the valves are incompetent. When there exists mitral insufficiency, the phenomena of which may in general be considered as those of obstruction, besides the breadth of the cardiac dulness, it is especially important to determine the existence of dilatation of the right auricle. This is indicated by an empty percussion sound, situated at the left border of the sternum, at the level of the third or second rib, over an extent of about an inch. Sometimes, also, in the second left intercostal space, there is a pulsation not quite synchronous with the heart's impulse, belonging to the commencement of the dilated pulmonary artery. During and im-UEPORT ON rilACTICAL WICDICINE. 128 medintely nfter expiration in this situation, the systolic elevation is followed by a short, limited, diastolic vibration. In one case of hyper- trophy of the right heart, with mitral stenosis, the author observed, while the cardiac impulse was indistinct, a manifest elevation and vibration of the sternum (produced by the right ventricle) at the attach- ment of the fifth rib, and a simultaneous descent of the hard, distinctly perceptible liver at each contraction of the organ. At the autopsy tlie right ventricle was found to be actually placed in this way, and there M-as a deep impression on the surface of the liver. Skoda.—On Reduplication of the Pulse, and Sounds of the Heart. Alig. Wien. Med. Ztg., viii, 3, 4, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 28. Reduplication of the pulse is probably a local phenomenon, depending upon a relaxation of the tissues round the artery, which thus becomes more movable. Reduplication of the cardiac sound depends on want of synchronism in the action of the two sides of the heart, or, rarely, on the right ventricle contracting twice for each contraction of the left. The second sound may be reduplicated without the first, but not vice versd. The reduplication of the second sound depends, in most cases, on a con- siderable increase in the tension of the pulmonary artery; as a rule, the separation of the two sounds is so brief that it amounts to no more than a dividing. Manifest reduphcation of the second sound may be produced by the part of the sound produced in the arteries and that produced in the ventricle not coinciding. Sticky exudation in the pericardium may also produce reduplication of the second sound, and also certain conditions of the stomach. DucHEK.—Clinical Lectures on Diseases of the Heart. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., vii, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. n8, p. 29. Duchek distinguishes—(i)Aproductiveform|of pericarditis, in which there is much connective tissue formed, and which usually leads to adhesion. (2) An exudative form, with copious serous effusion, often mixed with blood. (3) A suppurative form. (4) A degenerative form, where the exudation is converted into a cheesy material. (5) A destructive form, where the effused fluid is sanious, and in which gaseous products are some- times developed, almost exclusively of secondary character. The pro- ductive form occurs in individuals previously healthy. The exudative form is to be recognised by the signs of copious effusion. Its subjects are usually depressed or dropsical. The effusion is bloody in cases of variola, scurvy, purpura, &c. If the dull percussion sound changes into a tympa- nitic, it indicates that gas has become developed in the pericardium. The signs of pericardial adhesion are stated as—(i) The cardiac dulness is unaltered by the respiratory movements. (2) The normal systolic impulse is quite lost, or felt only as a weak vibration. The surface of one or more intercostal spaces is drawn in at each systole. This symptom, however, is not pathognomonic of pericardiac adhesion ; it may be pro- duced in atrophy of the lungs, in pleuritic adhesion and retraction, in hypertrophy of the heart, and even in healthy, but lean persons. Retrac- tion of the epigastrium is observed in cases where the diaphragm isCIECULATOUY SYSTEM. 0 1?9 depressed, or tlie heart is placed vertically or horizontally, without any pericardial adhesion. Lancereaux.— On Ulcerous Endocarditis. Gaz. de Paris, 42, 43, 45, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 31. In a male patient, set. 44, dying with pneumonia, the mitral valve M'as found thickened and lengthened, covered with granular fibrine, on the removal of which a tumour as large as a pea came into view, which contained a yellowish fluid. Glomeruli and pus-corpuscles were found in this fluid. There were, besides, two excavations on the valve of the same size. The aorta, its valves, and the right heart, were healthy. There was a firm yellow plug in one large division of the splenic artery, and a patch of softening of the size of a hen's egg in the spleen. The right lung was in a state of lobular pneumonia, with oedema and pleural efi"usion. Lancereaux remarks that the valvular suppuration had given rise to the pyaemia. In a second case, where the left side of the heart was hypertrophied, the mitral valves were thickened, and the aortic covered with thick vegeta- tions. From these altered valves, on section, there issued a thickish yellow fluid, consisting of pus and blood. Both lungs were completely cedematous. The patient had had attacks resembling those of inter- mittent fever for about twelve days, and had actually had intermittent for three months, seven years previously. In a third case the patient had been ill several days, with a sense of distress and pain in the epigastrium ; a severe rigor ensued, followed by vomiting and diarrhoea. During the last two days of life there was icterus, with stupor and adynamia. The lungs were cedematous and carnified, the hepatic cells were more or less destroyed, and several branches of the hepatic artery plugged up. Spleen enlarged and rotten, a branch of its artery corresponding to a firm infarctum blocked up. The kidneys also were in a similar state. The mitral valve was elongated and thickened, yellow coloured, and much injected, and presented a patch of ulceration as large as the tip of a finger, and a small abscess. In the blood of the femoral and certain other arte- ries were found various granules, corpuscles, and fragments of connective tissue similar to those contained in the abscess. Lancereaux remarks on the not unfrequent occurrence of ulcerous endocarditis in pregnant and lying-in women, and states that the pysemic disease which it produces is to be distinguished from intermittent fever by the want of complete apyrexia between the paroxysms. Skoda.—On Temporary Insufficiency of the Valves. Allg. Wieu. Med. Ztg., viii, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 35. Skoda records a case of typhoid fever, proving fatal, where the valves were found healthy, though during life there had been a systolic bruit over the left ventricle, with intensification of the second sound of the pulmonary artery. He ascribes the murmur and valvular insulEciency to paralysis of the musculi papillares, and states that the same occurs occasionally in cases of hysteria, chorea, and epilepsy. The patients have palpitations, severe dyspnoea, and appear in danger of dying, but suddenly recover completely. 'llEPORT ON I'JIACX'ICAL MKDICINE. 130 Skoda.—On the Diagnosis of Pericarditis. Allg. Wieu. Ztg., viii, 1863. Sclimitlt's Jnhrb., vol. 119, p. 32. In order that retraction of the surface of the chest in systole may take place, it is necessary that the lieni't should be fixed so that it cannot glide downwards; and, further, the left lung must be fixed so as to be unable to advance forwards over the heart. The phenomenon is most marked when the heart is attached to the vertebral column behind and to the wall of the chest in front, the two layers of the pericardium being adhe- rent everywhere. If the retraction does not occur at a part of the chest wall corresponding to the apex, it does not indicate adhesion of the peri- cardium. If, for instance, the intercostal space corresponding to the base of the heart is retracted and that corresponding to the apex bulged out during systole, this only signifies that the heart moves downwards, and that the lung cannot enter into the space left by the base. Retraction of the epigastrium does not imply pericardial adhesion, unless one is sure that the heart's apex lies in the epigastrium. As to the diagnosis between pericardial exudation and enlargement of the right heart, Skoda re- marks that, omitting the case of adhesion having occurred between the heart and the pericardium, and between the latter and the wall of the chest, a considerable bulging of the wall of the chest (unless the result of rachitis) is to be regarded as a sure sign of pericardial exudation. Friction sounds and feeble impulse of the heart indicate exudation. Signs of insufl&ciencyand stenosis of the mitral valve indicate hypertrophy of the right heart. Both conditions may coexist, and operate to produce the extended dulness. Demme, R.— On the Anatomy and Diagnosis of Myocarditis. Schweiz. Ztschr. f. Heilk., i, pp. 79, 461, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 44. The acute parenchymatous disease, as a rule, attacks both ventricles, but the left first and most severely. The papillary and trabecular muscles are among the parts most highly affected. In two of the four cases the myocarditis was quite uncomplicated with inflammation of the endo- or peri-cardium; in the other two cases the pericarditis appeared to be the result of the primary disease. Ecchymoses in the epicardium over the principal inflammatory foci were constantly met with; they were most numerous when the coronary arteries were atheromatous. Acute myocar- ditis is not always associated with acute morbus Brightii. There is nothing pecuhar in the dropsy attendant on the heart disease. Among the symp- toms, the most constant and manifest were the decrease of the heart's energy, the loss of rhythm in its movements, increasing frequency of the pulse, steady diminution of its size, and its continuous undulatory character. For some time before death the heart's contractions were more numerous than the beats of the pulse. Systolic bellows murmur, from insufficiency of the auriculo-vent.ricular valves, occurred in three of the four cases. In two cases the first sound of the heart became indis- tinct and was lost. As the power of the heart declined the temperature sank, so that there was very little indication of fever. The twenty-four hours' amount of urine was remarkably small; the decrease was specially observable towards the close of the disease, and affected both the quahty131 CIRCUIATOllY SYSTEM. as well as the quantity. The urea became gradually less, and latterly the uric acid. In all the cases the urine was albuminous, in two it con- tained glucose. The duration of the disease varied from forty-three to about five days. In two cases it appeared that over-exertion in lifting weights was the cause. KiiiKEs, W. S,, M.D.—On Ulcerative Inflammation of the Valves of the Heart as a cause of Pycemia. Brit. Med. J., Nov. 7th. Kirkes relates a case whicli was very obscure during life, but of which he sums up the pathology as follows, after a careful post-mortem examination. In the first instance there was ordinary rheumatism ; then acute ulcerative inflammation of the mitral valve; then contaminatioir of the arterial blood by lymph, pus, and other inflammatory products from the valve; then the signs of general blood-poisoning, namely, febrile disturbance of a low typhoid form, nausea, vomiting, profuse diarrhoea, and erythematous eruption ; then local suppuration in the parotids; lastly, obstruction of the cerebral vessels, with consequent softening of the brain substance and hemiplegia, all terminating in death, and revealing proofs of blood poisoning in various parts of the body. Skoda.—On Cardiac Murmurs not easily explicable. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., viii, 34, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb,, vol. 120, p. 303. As aids in the diagnosis, Skoda lays down, that in any part where it seems possible that disordered innervation is the cause, it should be so regarded. If a systolic murmur is heard in the corresponding situation, and the systolic cardiac murmur is retarded, is more perisystolic, the murmur probably arises in the arteries of the thoracic wall, especially if a similar one can be found in other arteries. That the murmur is pro- duced in the conus arteriosus may be concluded when the systolic murmur is most marked at the base of the heart. Such murmurs are very diflScult to distinguish from those produced at the orifices of the large arteries, but they certainly occur. ScHEiBER.—Case of Complete Obliteration of the Aorta. Wien, Wchnbl., xviii, 26, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 39. The aorta and its large branches were dilated as far as just beyond the origin of the left subclavian, beyond which it was entirely obhterated. The point of insertion of the duct. Botal. was marked by a funnel-shaped depression. The patient from whom the preparation was taken died of pneumonia, and had not suffered during life with symptoms referable to disorder of the circulation. Skoda considers the obliteration to depend on a continuation of the substance closing the duct. Botal. beyond its normal limits, and says that the condition can always be diagnosed by the whirring murmurs in the dorsal intercostal arteries, and the absence of pulse in the lower half of the body. Stofella alludes to a case where, owing to a very free communication between the arteries given off above and below the obliteration, there was a sufficient collateral circulation established to give a pulse in the crural artery synchronous with the radial.IIEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL JIKDICI.VE. 13!l DUCHEK.—Oh Obliteration of the Aorta at the point of entrance of the Duct. Botallii. Wien. Wchnbl., xviii, 37—39, 1862. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 117, p. 39. Ducbelc lays stress 011 the injurious effects of this obliteration in con- sequence of the iuBufliciency of the collateral circulation. The obstruction may produce no serious disorder for a long time, until some casual circumstance—a mental emotion, an unusual effort, or an intercurrent disease—makes the compensatory apparatus insufficient. Symptoms of heart disease then appear, general dropsy, or sudden death, as in Rdmer's case. The following conclusions are ai'rived at from a review of 51 cases :—(i) In the first period of infanc)^ soon after, or during the development of the stenosis, there died—as far as was clearly ascertained —only 2 patients manifestly in consequence of the rapid development of the obstruction. (2) After a longer continuance of the stenosis there died 38 patients, the majority between the ages of 20 to 50 years, only a few between 50 and 60. (a) Laceration of the heart and great vessels occurred in 18 cases under the age of 20. (6) When the disease lasted longer, general dropsy occurred and marasmus, and death ensued with one exception during the dropsy (8 cases, or 20 per cent.), (c) In 3 cases death ensued suddenly, (d) In 16 cases the patients died of accidental diseases not connected with the stenosis, and almost all affecting the respiratory organs, as of pneumonia 9, of pleurisy 2, of bronchitis i. Uuchek is inclined to attribute this in part to increased pressure within the lesser circulation, (e) One patient, aged 92, died of senile marasmus. lloBEKXS, W., M.D.—On the successful use of Pot. lodidi in the Treat- ment of Aneurism. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 24th. Roberts records three cases, in two of which decided advantage appeared to result from the administration of Pot. lod. In the first case the patient had a soft pulsating elevation rising about a quarter of an inch above the surrounding level; the first bone of the sternum and its immediate vicinities were observed to be bulged out, and to be the seat of a heaving pulsation. Over the bulging parts there was an area of duluess, measuring transversely four and a half inches and vertically three and a half inches. Under the use of Pot. lod. the bulging dimi- nished, and the dulness area shrank to three and a half inches transversely and two and a quarter vertically. In the second case a projection of the clavicle to the amount of half an inch subsided almost to its natural position, while cough, pain, dyspnoea, dysphagia, and hsemoptysis ceased. OsBORN, A. G,—Brit. Med. J., Feb. 7th. Records a case of aneurism of the aorta pressing on the superior vena cava. Haldane—Edin. Med. J., Jan. Reports the case of a female, cet. 50, in whom three abdominal aneurisms underwent a spontaneous cure by calcareous degeneration of fibrine coagulating in their interior. The first aneurism involved theCIRCULATORY SYSTEM. 133 ori-in of the ccelinc axis ; tlie second that of the superior mesenteric ; tne third, smaller than the others, that of the left supra-capsukr and left renal arteries. Both the coeliac axis and the superior mesenteric were com- pletely obliterated. An aneurism the size of a small apple projected against the trachea from the transverse portion of the arch. The aortic valves were incompetent. Cockle, J., M.D.—On Aneiirismal Tumours involving the Neck. Med. Tim. and Gaz., May i6th, 33rd, 30th. Cockle relates a case in which an aneurism of the ascending and transverse aorta formed a bipartite tumour in the right neck, extending from between the second and third right intercostal spaces to the angle of the jaw. There was agonising pain in the right side of the neck and shoulder, and paroxysms of suffocation occasionally occurred. With regard to differential diagnosis, he notices the possibility of con- founding an aneurisnr with ordinary strumous abscess, or with cystic growths, connected or not with the thyroid, with encephaloid tumours, and even with exaggerated arterial pulsation in exophthalmic goitre. Many aneurisms yield few or no peculiar signs, and none certainly that are pathognomonic, while, on the other hand, non-aneurismal tumours in contact with and pressing upon an artery may yield both shock and murmur. The distinction of the artery actually involved in the case of aneurism is often no easy matter. An aneurism originating in the aorta, and involving its tributaries, ruay ascend the neck even to the angle of the jaw J and, on the other hand, an innominate or even subclavian aneurism within the scaleni may descend the chest, pressing on or even displacing the aorta, and giving rise to intrathoracic dulness and murmur. Dilatation of the arch of the aorta and trunk of the innominata may much resemble aneurismal tumour, especially if the pressure has condensed the supra-clavicular portion of lung. Anomalies in the course of the innomi- nata may also cause phenomena much i-esembling those of aneurism, particularly when the upper bone of the sternum is short. With Dr. Holland's conclusions respecting aneurisms of the innominata he coin- cides on the whole, but excepts that variety which, either false or true, arises from the upper part of the ascending and angle of the transverse portion of the aorta, involving often the innominata and other arteries. These aneurisms, instead of inclining to the left, as Dr. Holland affirms of those of the transverse portion of the aortic arch, have a decided inclination to the right. It is almost exclusively this form which occa- sionally passes the first rib, and ascends the right cervical region. Cejka.—Prag. Vjhrschr., p. 89, 1863. Among his aphoristic observations on chest diseases, states that aneu- risms and tumours may sometimes be distinguished by careful examina- tion of other arteries. In aneurisms the corresponding arteries of opposite sides are of unequal diameter; those arising from an aneurism are usually of smaller size as compared with their fellows. This disparity is not observed in tumours, even when they press on arteries. The occurrence of a thrill (erzittern) in the tumour is decisive. I134 llEPOKT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. DouoLAS, A. H.—Suhsternal Aneurism: its Relation to Disease of the Heart. Edin. Med. J., Oct., 186.3. Douglas sums up his paper in the following considerations:—(i) Hy- pertrophy of the heart is probably in all cases a secondary lesion, and is the result of nature's effort to counterbalance a pre-existing hindrance to the circulation. (2) Dilatation of the heart is the natural resolution of local diseases which may, in the first instance, excite hypertrophy. Embarrassment of the circulation, with veuosity of the blood, dropsy, &c., usually arises with this consecutive dilatation. (3) Valvular disease of the heart often coexists with aneurism of the aorta, especially peripheral aneurism; the sigmoid valves most usually are affected, perhaps from contiguity. (4) In such cases the consecutive condition of the heart does not materially differ from that which occurs in cases of simple valvular insufficiency. (^) A diseased condition of the arterial coats often exists in conjunction with hypertrophy of the heart, as is commonly seen in cases of apoplexy with disease of the cerebral arteries. (6) There is reason to think that disease of the arterial coats may exist extensively in the system, though the aorta and the arteries at the base of the brain usually present its most advanced effects. (7) In this state the aorta is apt to undergo dilatation, constituting usually peripheral aneurism. (8) The diseased state of the arteries destroying their elasticity, the circulation is to that extent obstructed, and the left ventricle, under the additional burden, undergoes hypertrophy to compensate the lost tonicity of the arteries. (9) In such circumstances hypertrophy arises in a way analogous to that which occurs in cases of disease of the valves, &c., of the heart. (10) Consequently, hypertrophy of the heart and peripheral aneurism stand associated together as effects of the same diseased condition of the arteries. (11) Consecutive preponderating dilatation may occur in such cases, but the progress to that stage is liable to be hindered by the accidents of hypertrophy, as, for example, of cerebral haemorrhage, which is promoted by the coexisting disease of the arteries. (12) Aneurism of the aorta is often altogether its origin, and has no tendency to involve the heart in associated or consecutive disefise. (13) Such aneurisms are usually saccular, but they may be peripheral, and they suggest the probability of localization of the disease of the coats of the artery. (14) Proximity to the heart in such cases does not affect the organ. Douglas, A. H.—Substernal Aneurism: Clinical Illustrations of its Diagnosis. Edin. Med. J., Nov., 1863. Douglas concludes his paper with the following statement of some of the considerations that arise out of his cases, and which were of value in their diagnosis:—(i) The all but invariable importance of dulness of percussion. (2) The great diagnostic value of a cavernous, intensified character of tiie cardiac second sound, heard over the scat of disease rather than at the sigmoid valves. (3) The rarity and uncertainty of diastolic murmur as a sign of aneurism. (4) The importance of pain as a symptom ; observing its neuralgic form and its conjoined fixed or local and lancinating character. (5) The relation of pain of the shoulder to interference with the phrenic nerve. (6) The occasional vomiting of135 CIRCULATOUT SYSTEM. ingesta as a consequence of irritation of both phrenic nerves. (7) The occasionally temporary cliaracter of laryngeal symptoms. (8) The dingnostic value of concurrent inflammation of the lungs. (9) The import of difficult expiration, as indicating mechanical obstruction of the trachea. CoNCATO, LuiGl.—Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 303. Records a case of aneurism of the cceliac axis in a male set, 33. The sac at the time of the fatal rupture was as large as the head of a six- mouths foetus. The diagnosis turned on the non-mobiHty of the tumour along with the diaphragm, and therefore on its retroperitoneal situation, on its expanding equally in all directions during systole, on its spherical shape and smooth surface, in which respects it differed from aortic aneurism, aud on the non-retardation of the pulse in the crural arteries. Habershon, S. 0.—On Pulsating and Aneurismal Tumours of the Abdomen. Guy's Hospital Reports, 1863. Habershon groups the symptoms of aneurismal disease in the abdomen under the heads of—(i) the negative signs ; (2) the character of the pain ; (3) the character of the pulsating tumour. As to the first group, the absence of constitutional disturbance is remarkable ; the patients have often the appearance of robust health ; there is generally an absence of the symptoms of organic gastric disease, as well as of effusions into the peritoneal cavity; the urine is generally normal. Vomiting, Habershon thinks, is less frequent than Hodgson considers it, and constipation is not so invariable as Dr. Copland describes it. As to the second group. The pain is of a twofold kind, one being constant and uniform, the other agonising and paroxysmal, the latter appears to be owing to the dis- tension of nerve-filaments spread over the aneurismal sac. The pain follows the course of some of the spinal nerves ; it may be attended with cramps in the legs, numbness in the feet, and in rare cases with para- plegic symptoms. Occasionally the pain has been located in the joints, and the disease has simulated rheumatism. The pain is increased by constipation or flatulent distension. In some cases there is no pain. As to the third group, the pulsation of aneurism is diastolic iu character; it is by no means always equally distinct, for when occurring at the posterior part of the aorta, close to the diaphragm, and when the sac passes beneath the strong lumbar fascia, pulsation is very indistinct at the earlier stages. A bruit may often be heard at the site of the tumour; it may be systolic or double, but is not unfrequently absent. As the sac enlarges, there may be visceral displacement; the liver may be pushed forwards, or the kidney, spleen, or pancreas. The thoracic viscera are also encroached on, and dyspnoea and palpitation are induced. The heart is generally healthy in abdominal aneurism. The disease may terminate fatally by rupture of the sac or by increasing exhaustion. If the blood be effused slowly behind the peritoneum, the pain may be at first relieved, but subsequently a state of semi-syncope takes place. The extravasation may descend as far as the thigh, and simulate psoas abscess. The rupture takes place frequently into the pleura, and most often on the left side. Perforation into the alimentary canal is rare, The136 rvEPORT 0\ 1>BACTICAL MKDICINE. most frequenf. cause of aneurism of the nbdoniinal norta is excessive exertion; sometimes it is referred to a sudden struin of the abdominal muscles or to a blow. The duration, after severe symptoms have appeared, is rarely as much as eighteen months. From the appearance, however, of the first symptoms, seven or eight years may elapse. The diagnosis is most difficult when some tumour presses upon the aorta. In this case, however, the pain is less severe, the pulsation is lessened by placing the patient on his hands and knees so as to remove pressure from the artery, and there are usually other symptoms indicating di-tsorder of some adjacent viscus. Records are given of sixteen cases. Meissneh, H.—Report on Thrombosis and Embolism. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 209. The first part is chiefly occupied by an account of Panum's experi- mental researches, which are published at length in 'Yirchow's Arch.,' XXV, 3—6, pp. 308—338, 433—530, 1862. He finds—(i) That the absence of arterial blood in the coronary arteries of the lieart by no means causes immediate arrest of its movements, since its rhythmical contractions will persist even for hours after the capillaries and veins have been filled with oil and the arteries with wax. As uuder these circum- stances the heart's action can still be temporarily arrested by irritation of the vagi, it follows that Brown-Sequard's view is incorrect, which supposes that this efi^ect is produced by contraction of the coronary arteries, in con- sequence of stimulation of their vaso-motor nerves. (2) That when sudden death is produced by embolism of the pulmonai-y artery, but little blood is found in the left heart, and the quantity is smaller in proportion as the death has been complete and sudden. A small quantity of blood is, however, always found in the ventricle. (3) ^Yhen death ensues froni embolism of the pulmonary artery, the heart, as a rule, continues to pulsate after all signs of life on the part of the cerebi'o-spinal nervous system have quite ceased. (4) The arrest of the heart is produced by over-distension of the right cavitieswith venous blood ; occurs consequently in diastole, and usually soon after the cessation of the respiratory move- ments. (5, 6) Sudden death depending on embolism of the pulmonary artery is produced by the arrest of the flow of arterial blood to the brain and medulla oblongata. If the arrest is complete, irritative phenomena are slight and soon cease, but they are more considerable and last longer when the arterial current is less completely arrested. Pauum states that when death occurs rapidly, from perfect obstruction of the pulmonary artery, the first and most constant phenomenon is the extreme pallor of all the visible parts of the body and anaemia of the white substance of the brain. There then ensued immediately constant tetanic extension of the limbs, involuntary evacuation of the urine and faeces, very deep con- vulsive respiratory movements, and in one to three minutes death. When the deprivation of blood ia less complete, signs of irritation of the sympathetic nerve ensue, the eyeballs project, the lids are wide open, and the pupil dilated. These symptoms seem to result from altered nutrition of the nervous centres. (7, 8) Complete embolism of the cerebral arteries produces death just in the same way as that of the pulmonary artery. Partial cerebral cmbolia is apt to be more fatal than137 CIUCULATOllY SYSTEM. paitinl piilmonarv, and, wlien certain large branches alone are aflected, will produce special symptoms according to the part of the bram winch is rendered anEcmic. "(9) The increase of the original embolon by addi- tional deposits may cause death days and weeks after its first formation. (10) When lobular foci of suppuration form in the lungs, it seems very probable that coagula may be generated in the pulmonary veins, which then pass into the systemic circnlation and cause arterial obstruction. (11) When unirritating substances, as wax-globules, injected into the vessels, have caused obstruction, they become capsulated by the thick- ening of the wall of the vessel and the formation of a connective-tissue enveTope, which is thicker around the smaller (proportionally) than around the larger. (12) Virchow finds that the dissolute blood-crasis produced by the injection of putrid material into the blood disposes, certainly, to sanguiueo-serous infiltration of the lungs, as well as of other parts, but even when combined with embolia of the pulmonary arteries has no influence in generating the so-named lobular (pysemic) processes or infarctn. (13) Globules of quicksilver, arrested in the pulmonary vessels, produce, as Cruveilhier found, inflammatory foci around them ; but this does not depend on mechanical obstruction of the vessel, but on a specific chemical irritation of tlie surrounding pulmonary tissue. (14) Plugs consisting of nitrogenous substances undergoing decomposi- tion provoke—in the vicinity of those spots of the pulmonary artery where they stick—inflammations, which may spread over a considerable extent of the lung, but which st.irt from the spot where the plug is ."situated. The alteration of tissue is therefore greatest near to the plug, and may end with limited gangrene, the inflammation receding from the surrounding area. The inflammatory irritation is caused by the products of decomposition of the putrefying plug. (15, 16) Perfectly fresh coagula of healthy blood may, in the same individual from whom the coagulum proceeds, excite exquisite lobular processes or infarcta in the lungs, when embolism of the pulmonary artery occurs. It is, however, only in peculiar instances that this takes place, most of the coagula dissolving without producing any alterations in the parts adjacent to them. (17) An altered blood-crasis, however induced, seems to have no influence in determining the formation of infarcta. (18) Neither does it appear that the diff'erent quality of the emboli is the efi'ective cause, as some fragments of the same coagulum will produce infarcta, while the majority, which are of quite similar composition, give rise to none. (19) It must therefore be assumed that there is a peculiar predisposition in diff'erent parts of the lung to be affected in this way by the coagula which become impacted in them. (20) Pus, even when left a long while 4 in contact with the blood contained in the veins of the living body, n produces no coagulation. (21) Besides the larger infarcta, there were constantly found, after embolism of the pulmonary artery with recent (coagula, very numerous, small, hyaline, or yellowish-white fibroid nodules, which Virchow regards as developed on minute embolic coagula. Numerous transition forms were observed between these and the lobular infarcta. (22) It is not improbable that miliary tubercles may be pro- duced in the same way by embolism of the smallest branches of the 1 pulmonary artery. In injections of tuberculous human lungs, enormousHEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 138 local thickenings are seen of the ■walla of these very vessels, 11. Embolism of (he arteries of the systemic circulation.—The results of Panum's experiments, in which wax, mercury or air, was injected into one crural artery in the direction contrary to the current, were very various, and exhibited pathological phenomena which have been referred toother causes. They are as follows:—(2^) Paralysis of the posterior part of the body, and red softening of the lower half of the spinal cord. Vomiting and diarrhoea, with enormous tension and repletion of the whole portal-vein system, with formation of ulcers in the stomach (corresponding to the round gastric ulcer), and also of ulcers in the intestines, which especially involved Peyer's patches, like those of enteric fever. Septic alteration of the blood, in consequence of partial gangrenous destruction of the intestinal mucous membrane. Tetanus, terminating fatally in two hours, without discernible alteration of the spinal cord, induced by embolism of the arteries of the brain and of the medulla oblongata. Eczema of the lips, gums, and muzzle, from lodging of air- vesicles in the small arteries of these parts. Loss of hair and purpuric ecchymoses of the skin. Violent rheumatoid pains, gradually increasing palsy of the muscles, and wasting of the muscular tissue. Mingling of albumen and blood with the urine, and morbid changes in the kidneys, in consequence of emboli in the vasa afferentia, as well as in the Malpighian tufts. Pathological alteration of the liver, partly fi-om small extravasations from the portal vein, partly by the formation of firm, tumid, yellow and red-spotted patches of the hepatic tissue, in which the hepatic cells were partially dissolved, and contained yellow pigment. Secondai-y cap- sulating of some mercurial globules, which had probably remained a long while in the heart, with coagula of blood. Infiltration, inflammation, and aneurismatic dilatation of some arteries where mercurial globules, thus capsulated, had stuck. (27) The enormous hypertemia and increase of blood pressure which is set up in the portal system proves that the peristaltic action of the intestinal villi and of the intestinal tube, which is paralysed by the embolism, is an essential motor force of the portal circulation. The same may be said of interruption of the current in the hepatic artery. (28) The early appearance of the nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea, makes it probable that they are produced directly by the hypersemia, rather than from the putrid infection of the blood.—The next part of the report deals with the anatomical conditions of thrombosis and embolia. Notta denies that irritation of the inner and middle coats of arteries ever produces a plastic exudation, and would consequently exclude arteritis from the causes of thrombosis. Lancereaux, on the other hand, has found actual membranous exudations on the inner surface of arteries, especially almost constantly among drunkards in the pulmonary artery and its main branches, and once also in a syphilitic person in the carotid. These membranes have contained, not only elements of con- nective tissue, nuclei, cells and fibres, but even capillaries. When a thrombus is occasioned, as often happens, by atheromatous disease, it takes the shape of the diseased vessel, but is not closely adherent to its walls ; its ends are conical ; when recent, it is brownish, firm, fibrous, laminated; in a more advanced state it is yellowish gray, granular, soft, and even diffluent in the middle, but always contains altered blood-CIUCULA.TOEY SYSTEM. 189 globules. In cases of embolism the walls of the vessels are for the most part unaltered, as far as the unaided eye can perceive; but Lebert has, after nineteen days' duration, found with the microscope a considerable increase of the connective-tissue-corpuscles, and a division and multiplication of the nuclei. Grisolle also found thickening of the vascular coats and adhesion of the same with the embolon in a case where a calcareous fragment driven into the middle cerebral artery had excited there inflam- mation and fibrinous depositions. The embolon is very variously shaped, mostly fusiform or rounded, colourless or whitish, sometimes gray or brownish, always dry, hard, and resisting. It is mostly fibrinous, or is separable into two parts—one peripheral, which is always fibrinous and sometimes very long; and a central, directed towards the heart, which is calcareous, atheromatous, or fibrinous also, and contains sometimes heterogeneous elements, as warty growths or bits of the valves. Some- times the embolon is absent, having probably become absorbed. In cases of old standing the vessel itself sometimes disappears. The softening which occurs in the brain as the result of the deprivation of the part of blood may be red, yellow, or white, according to the stage in which it is examined. Bed softening commences after twenty-four or forty-eight hours, dating from the apoplectiform attack, and lasts eight to fourteen days. It is characterised by moderately diminished consistence, a red, brownish, or rosy colour, sometimes united with a slight tumefaction of the tissue, and always with increased tension and. injection of the collateral vessels. The red colour is not produced solely through the increased vascular injection, but also by the transudation of colouring matter into the parenchyma (ecchymoses), and by capillary, punctiform efi'usions from the collateral vessels. Under the microscope the nerve- fibres and -cells appear partly normal, partly already broken and granular; the capillary walls for the most part unchanged—however, sometimes filled with coagulated blood. Yellow softening does not appear till after the lapse of fourteen days. The necrotic cerebral mass is by this time more pappy; the nerve-fibres and-cells are broken up, dislocated, granulous, scarcely distinguishable, in a state of regressive fatty metamorphosis. The capillary walls are covered with gray fatty granulations; contain diminished blood-corpuscles, especially granular heematine from the shrunken red globules, and enlarged granuUr white corpuscles. The yellow colour depends on the latter, on coloured blood-globules deprived of their hoematine, and also sometimes on the formation of fat. White softening does not appear until several months have elapsed. The cere- bral mass is then completely white, diffluent like cream, with some whity flocculi suspended in it. Nerve-fibres and -cells have vanished, capillaries and blood-corpuscles are metamorphosed, and under the microscope numerous granulations are seen, oil-drops, and granular cells, which give the fluid the greatest resemblance with the colostrum. This third phase only occurs in large patches of softening, as smaller ones are always resorbed. Sometimes, even in larger patches, the softened mass is absorbed, which constitutes then a fourth phase, which is characterised by superficial depressions, the formation of cysts and cicatrices, and forms the termination in recovery. One peculiarity of cerebral softenings is that the whole region belongingHKPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINB. ]10 to the obstructed vessel is never affected, but only the middle part, on account of the influence of the collnteral circulation. Cerebral softening from pliigging-up of the capillaries differs from that which has been de- scribed by the existence of small scattered foci on the surface or in the intei'ior of the cerebral substance ; and in softening from obstruction of the venous sinuses, there are the same, corresponding to the course of the sinus, mingled with numerous capillary apoplexies and red colour of tlie softened pulp. Softening also ensues from encephalitis, and is charac- terised by actual formation of pus, with induration of the surrounding tissue. Softening may further be produced by the formation of plastic e.tudation or alteration of the connective tissue in the brain, probably as a result of constitutional syphilis. Lastly, tumours or hsemorrbagic effusions may in a kind of mechanical way produce softening. All these latter forms of softening arc, however, comparatively rare, as Lancereaux in twenty-two cases found sixteen to depend on obstruction of vessels. In most of the other internal organs the results of vascular obstruction are quite similar to the forms of softening which occur in the brain. They are known under the names of capillary phlebitis, of multiple fibrous deposits, capillary embolias, but especially as hsemorrbagic or fibrinous infarcta. Three stages may be distinguished. In the first there is some swelling of the diseased part; the parenchyma is not or only a little softened, sometimes even indurated ; the colour is red, brownish, or violet; the form in the spleen and kidneys is more conical, in membranous organs is flatter and patch-like. The blood-vessels are full of blood, and the tissue-elements begin to degenerate and to show granulations. No deposit of heterologous material is ever found, and the name of fibrinous infarctum is therefore incorrect. In the second period the infarctum becomes more yellow, and gradually darker; its consistence varies accord- ing to the amount of connective tissue in the part; in the liver, spleen, and kidneys it is increased, so that one speaks of a yellow induration of these organs. In the lungs the infarctum is like an old apoplectic extravasation or the nucleus of a lobular infiltration. The microscope discovers no new- formed connective tissue, but only the granular debris of tissue-elements, white blood-cells, and very numerous molecular granulations. The vessels and the connective stroma undergo, though more slowly, the alterations which have been mentioned. The blood also decomposes, the colourless corpuscles becoming more or less granular; the red, irregular, granular, pale; and the free hsematine collecting into amorphous masses. The third phase is different according to the size of the obstructed vessels. If they are small, the broken-up tissue is quickly absorbed by the adjacent blood- vessels, and depressed cicatrices remain. When larger vessels are plugged up, only a part of the involved tissue is absorbed; the rest becomes diflBuent, and forms a milky, puriform, or greenish fluid, surrounded by irregularly torn walls. The microscope detects here nothing but debris of the tissues and altered blood. There is no ground for the opinion that inflammation and suppuration have occurred. The cause of cmbolia m most cases is cardiac disease of some kind or otlier, and especially that which Meissner designates endocarditis ulcerosa acuta, which runs its course with typhoid or pyscmic symptoms, and occurs especially lu weakened persons in the puerperal condition and in acute rheumatism.141 CmCULATOllY SYSTEM. The \iIcerations are almost always in the valves of the left ventricle, occa- sionally in those of the right; they result from an inflammatory molecular decay of the endocardium, and become by the roughness of their surface the seat of fibrinous deposits, whicli are subsequently carried away by the circulating blood, and get arrested in different parts. The symptoms of this acute, ulcerous endocarditis are various; they may either be purely ataxo-adynamic, with great depression, heat, rigors, somnolence, delirium, dry tongue, bronchial catarrh, meteorism, and diarrhoea; sometinies en- larged spleen, or ecchymoses and sndamina, presenting by their continuous course the greatest resemblance with exanthematic typhus; or the phe- nomena may be more like those of pyaemia, paroxysmal rigors intervening among the ataxo-adynamic manifestations. In both cases jaundice, more or less severe, often occurs, and has been sometimes mistaken for the primary disease. The progress of this is so rapid that its changes can sometimes be followed from day to day. In cases where the heart is not diseased it is not unusual to find affections of tlie aorta or other vessels, dilatation, atheroma, ulcerations, or aneurisms. In other cases various organic diseases are found, as pneumonia, renal degeneration, cancer, or a traumatic injury, but the connection of these with the emboUc process is much less frequently demonstrable. In spontaneous thrombosis there are more frequently precursory symptoms than in embolia; the condition gets gradually worse, and improves less rapidly. When embolia of the cerebral arteries occurs, obstruction of the carotid or its branches occasions sudden giddiness, loss of consciousness, syncope, deprivation of intellectual and motor power, blunting of sensibility, sometimes involuntary stools, and but seldom vomiting. This attack is, if death does not take place, transitory, and leaves behind one-sided palsy of the body or amaurosis, besides loss of speech and disorders of the intellect. Recovery may be complete when one carotid trunk is obstructed, but is always imperfect when the obstruction is situated on the further side of the circle of Willis. When the vertebral or basilar arteries are obstructed, loss of consciousness and intellectual disturbance more rarely occur, but giddiness and vomiting and sensory disorders are more frequent. The attacks are less sudden, and improvement also is more gradual. Recovery, as far as existing records show, is only possible when the collateral circulation is established before forty-eight hours have elapsed from the period of the obstruction. The diagnosis of cerebral embolia from cerebral htemorrhage or throm- bosis is often diflicult, and by no means clearly to be made. The history is our chief guide as regards cerebral haemorrhage, as the symptoms are in both affections essentially the same. The subjects of apoplexy before the attack have a strong constitution and good health, and receive warnings in the form of determinations of blood to the head, giddiness, drowsiness, and sense of formication in their limbs. The subjects of embolia, on the contrary, have already been depressed by acute or subacute heart affec- tions, and the attack ensues without premonitory symptoms. The dia- gnosis of pigmentary embolia, where comatose and convulsive attacks take place and the cerebral function is suddenly abolished, is determined by tthe presence of pernicious ague fever. The age of the patient is on im- portant item for consideration ; acute rheumatism and endocarditis are diseases of early life, while apoplexy belongs mostly to the later periods. iItEl'ORT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. Cerebral thrombosis, as compared with cerebral embolia, occurs in a much more advanced period of life, after pre-existing cerebral symptomp, and sometimes gradually advancing disease; is more associated with fatty change of the heart and arcus senilis, and less with valvular disease; the radial arteries and others are sometimes ossified, but gangrene of the limbs and iufarcta rarely occur. Lancereaux distinguishes an inflammatory and non-inflammatory form of thrombosis of the cerebral sinuses. Of seventy-four cases he collected, thirty-nine were of the former and thirty- five of the latter kind. Virchow and v. Dusch do not, however, admit this distinction. Non-inflammatory thrombosis occurs chiefly in children and old men, and is induced by tumours which interfere with the circu- lation, or by weakening diseases, such as produce cachexia, also by weak- ness of the respiratory muscles, rachitis, tuberculosis, and peritonitis. Sometimes, especially when false membranes form, no cause can be detected. In this form the sinus is firm and tense, and completely filled by the thrombus. Purely fibrinous thrombi are at first completely homo- geneous, firm, apparently lamellated, non-adherent to the wall of the sinus. At a later period they become yellowish, and soften in their interior into a puriform fluid, turbid, with granular and white corpuscles. The thrombus does not adhere to the wall of the sinus until a later period, in consequence of the formation of connective tissue. Pseudo-membranous formations, in the shape of plugs, bridge-like bands, or tendinous threads, are sometimes present, while on the distal side of the vessel the canal be- comes obstructed by coagulated blood or fibrine. The superior longitu- dinal sinus is the usual seat of the thrombi, and they extend from thence to the adjacent sinuses. The brain is scarce ever inflamed, but frequently tliere is passive dilatation of the veins of the membranes and cerebral substance, with numerous spots of capillary apoplexy, in rare instances attaining a larger size. Patches of softening of the brain are often found, which are the result of the impeded circulation and defective nutrition of the tissue. The patches are mostly symmetrical, and occupy the surface of both middle lobes, involving especially the gray matter. The symptoms are very obscure. Epistaxis (in thrombosis of the superior longitudinal sinus), and unequal distension of the external jugular veins (in thrombosis of the lateral sinuses), are of no great value, especially when the patients are children. The consecutive phenomena are those of cerebral pressure, of passive congestion, and sometimes of softening of the brain. At first there is a fixed gaze, strabismus, cephalalgia, grinding of the teeth, con- tractions and convulsions ; the latter occur also in adults, and resemble those of epilepsy. Subsequently there is clouding of the intellect, drowsi- ness, syncope, coma, dilatation of the pupils, giddiness, vomiting ; more rarely, and only a short time before death, paralysis ensues. The diagnosis is very uncertain, and can only be based on a general consideration of all the symptoms, or be arrived at by exclusion of other affections. The previous occurrence of profuse diarrhoea with exhaustion of the system, of cerebral symptoms with depression of the fontanelles and imbricated overlapping of the cranial bones, as M-ell as unequal distension of the jugular veins, should direct one's attention to a thrombosis of the sinuses. It should, however, be remembered that all these signs may be absent, especially in adults. Inflammatory thrombosis of the sinuses is invariably143 C'lllCULATOllY SYSTEM. connected witli alterfltions of the scalp or of the bones of the head. In the thirty-nine cases collected by Lancereaux, caries existed thirty times and otitis interna twenty-four. The sinus adjoining the seat of mischief is always diseased ; the superior longitudinal sinus and the symmetrical blood-channels are rarely affected. The thrombus seldom consists solely of fibrine, but is for the most part softened in its interior, and made up of fibrine, pus, and pseudo-membranous flakes. The walls of the sinus are usually altered, of a brownish or yellowish colour, thickened, easily torn, sometimes destroyed, and manifestly communicating with the carious bones. The dura mater at the seat of disease is grayish or black- ish, adherent with the arachnoid, and covered with false membranes or pus. Purulent meningitis or abscesses in the brain often occur, not only in the vicinity of the obstructed sinus, but also sometimes at a distance, and unconnected with it. The brain is rarely discoloured or softened in patches; the pia mater oedematous or hypersemic, the ventricles filled wih serum or pus. Effusions of blood occur only in exceptional cases, because, by means of the previous inflammation, collateral channels have been formed, which is not the case in non-inflammatory thrombosis. In two thirds of all the cases other organs are also affected. As the result of purulent infection, metastatic abscesses form, hsemorrhagic or purulent infarcta (much oftener in the lungs than in other organs), suppurative pleuritis, enlargement and softening of the liver and spleen ensue. The cerebral symptoms are very varying, and less connected with disturbances of the circulation than with morbid changes in the brain, produced by the disease of the bone or the secondary purulent infection. At first there are signs of irritation, as pain in the head, delirium, cramps, and contractions ; Rubsequently phenomena of pressure ensue, as depression of the mental powers, paralysis of motor and of sensory nerves, stupor, and coma. Yet sometimes there are no symptoms at all when multiple abscesses exist in the brain. In about half of all the cases there are me- tastatic pulmonary abscesses, with pain in the chest, cough, dyspnoea, often diarrhoea, sometimes jaundice, with or without swelling of the liver and spleen, pains in the abdomen and in the limbs, especially in the joints. Heschl.—On Capillar^/ Scemoi-rhages in Melancemia. Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prfikt. Heilk., viii, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 37. He f^nds that there are two kinds of pigment, one dark brown, which may be free, but is also certainly found in the walls of the vessel; the other, consisting of roundish, pale-bordered pigment-grains, which circulate in the blood, and are probably only altered blood-globules. The chief places where both kinds of pigment are formed are in slighter cases the liver and spleen, in grave also the brain and spinal cord, the capillary system being the especial seat of the change. The cause of the pigment- formation is the spontaneous escape of heematine from the blood-globules. This is the result of malarial infection, and Heschl thinks that the altered hsematine becomes the vehicle of the malaria. Cerebral capillary heemor- 'rhages generally, according to Heschl's researches, proceed from capillary aneurisms, both these vessels and the smaller ramifications being dilated at various spots. No pigmentary accumulations are met with, either in front of or behind the aneurisms. Morbus Brightii, which is present inhepout on practical iiedicink. 14.1. most cnscs Hcsclil rcgnrds, not as the cause of the haemorrhnges, but as a co-result of the malarious disease. Begbie, J. W. — On Vascular Bronchocele and Exophlhalmos. Ediii. Med. Jour., Sept., 1863. As the result of a prolonged discussion, Begbie is disposed to con- clude that the true pathology of the bronchocele and exophthalmos, found in connection with cardiac palpitation and vascular pulsations and dilatations, lies both in the blood and in the nervous system, but that the primum mobile is the former; that an altered' state of the blood—for a time stopping short of wliat is generally known as ansemin, in many cases amounting to well-marked anaemia—acts directly on the nerves of blood-vessels and on the nerves of the heart (sanguis moderator nervorum) ; that, as a consequence, their rhythmical move- ments are seriously affected, and dilatation of the heart's chambers, and of blood-vessels, arteries, but chiefly veins, results ; that for a lengthened period the bronchocele is truly a vascular enlargement and dilatation, but that in course of time hypertrophy and degeneration of gland structure result; that the exophlhalmos, which is not a necessary consequence any more than the bronchocele of tbis disordered state of blood and neurosis of blood-vessels, depends upon congestion and vascular dilatation of the ophthalmic vessels, with effusion of serum into tbe post-ocular cellular tissue ; and, lastly, that a plan of treatment directed to the improvement of the condition of the blood, and at the same time to the state of the nervous system, is successful in effecting a cure, provided those organic changes in the heart, to which reference has been made, have not already been induced. 11E3PIRAT0KY SYSTEM. RiCHAiiDSOX, B. W., M.A., M.D. — Researches on the Treatment of Suspended Animation. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., April, 1863. Richardson states the question he proposed to himself as follows:— Given a healthy body, in which, without structural injury or cliange in any part or organ, life has been arrested by suppression of the chemical process of oxidation: how can such a body be restored? The cases in- cluded under this proposition are more numerous than might be expected. Richardson enumerates six classes, but in the present communication he deals only with the first two, comprising examples where death (apparent) has occurred either from obstructed respiration or from inhalation of a narcotic vapour. He discusses,/rs^, the morbid conditions presented by these different forms of suspended life; secondly, the pathology, general and special, of these forms; thirdly, the modes of treatment. In me- chanical obstruction of the trachea, after death, the blood is found fluid, but subsequently coagulates and docs not appear to have under- o-one any chemical change. The condition of the heart varies with the fength of time during which the death is taking place. If the death is extremely rapid, from the occlusion having been sudden and complete, there is always great engorgement of the right cavities, especially of the auricle, while the left side is firmly contracted and empty. If the death is less sudden, from the period of suffocation having been prolonged, the right cavities are full, as before, but the left also contain more or less ofUESPIBATOEY SYSTEM. 145 blood, and are more relaxed. If in tliese examples the body is opened after the heart has entirely stopped the influence of the air produces reaction ^ within a few seconds after the exposure there is contraction of the right auricle, then of the right ventricle; if any blood remain in the left cavities their walls also follow, and the whole organ may appear in active play. Experimenters, on witnessing these contractions, have assumed that the action of the heart has been continuous, and that it was capable of performing its functions if the respirations were but adequately assisted. This is, however, a mistake; the action is a re-excitement con- sequent on the admission of air to its surface, and is due to a feeble com- bination of the oxygen of the air with the blood still remaining in the mus- cular walls. Again, the contraction observed, vigorous though it may seem, is not propulsive contraction ; it never suffices to drive on a pulmonic cir- cuit ; it excites no dilatation of arteries; hence it is a useless exhibition of force, having as little power in restarting a circulatory movement as the jactitations of the muscles of the limbs in the typhus patient have power to make the patient rise and walk about. The condition of the lungs varies, like that of the heart, according to the time of dying. The lungs, in this respect, go with the left side of the heart If the occlusion is sudden and complete, the lungs present no unnatural appearance ; if the occlusion is imperfect and the struggle is prolonged, the lungs will be found contain- ing blood in the pulmonary artery and in the pulmonary veins ; while if the struggle is greatly prolonged, they are intensely congested. These dif- ferences in the degree of pulmonary congestion depend on the length of time during which the heart continues to act and to send blood to the lungs; and this, again, depends on the amount of air which the lungs can receive. If the occlusion of the trachea is sudden and complete, the heart stops very soon ; if the reverse, the heart continues to act much longer. The sinuses of the brain are congested, like the right side of the heart, when death occurs rapidly. If the death is prolonged, there will be con- gestion, and a little serous effusion. These signs are much more marked when there has been pressure at the same time on the jugular veins. The glands are all more or less congested, as well as the alimentary canal. In drowning at common temperatures, the blood is found dark and fluid, but coagulates on exposure to air and warmth ; the heart is congested on the right side, but also contains blood on the left; the lungs are engorged, and the bronchial tubes contain a little watery sanguineous fluid; the brain and the glands are congested, but not structurally injured. As examples of the phenomena produced by the inhalation of narcotic vapours, Richardson takes death from chloroform and from carbonic acid. The first, like several others, kills by an affirmative process, the other by simple negation. Chloroform destroys life by its power of arresting oxidation by its mere presence ; carbonic acid by simply displacing air. The morbid appearances after death by chloroform are very definite when observed in their pure state, as in experiments on animals ; in fatal cases occurring in the human subject they are more or less modified. The blood is not materially altered in any way, even its colour is not much changed. The condition of the heart after death from chloroform purely is invariably the same : the right cavities are filled with blood, and the left are contracted and empty ; the arteries are also empty, or nearly so. If aus- 10146 REPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, cultntion be practised during the net of dying, while the finger is kept on the abdominal aorta, it is found that the heart's sounds can be heard for a few seconds after the respiration has entirely ceased. But during the whole of the last period of life, although the heart's sounds are heard, there is no arterial pulsation. In three large dogs the arterial pulsation ceased from one minute and a half to two minutes before the cessation of either sound. Richardson concludes from this that the cardiac action, attended as it is with pulselessness, is action developed feebly on one side only, viz., the right, and that death really begins at the heart, though the heart outlives the respiration. On exposure of the heart to the air, if the death has not exceeded half an hour, there occurs after a short pause active motion of the auricle and of the ventricle of the right side. This may continue for an hour if the temperature of the air surrounding is above 60° and not above 80". But the action is utterly futile as a propulsive action; it never injects the lungs; it is neither attended with sounds nor with evidences of valvular tension. If the pulmonary artery be laid open, there is no jet; if air be removed, the action ceases ; the motion is due, in fact, to a feeble oxidation of the blood in the parietes of the heart. The lungs are invariably free from congestion after pure death by chloroform. This is because the effect of the chloroform is primarily upon the heart through the blood. The right side, instead of affording a correct supply, transmits a current gradually decreasing in power and volume. To this current, however, no opposition is offered in the pulmonic circuit; it makes its way, therefore, to the left side, which propels it forward with a force steadily declining. Thus the circulation dies step by step, and with it the muscular power generally. At last a time arrives when the right side of the heart, feebly stimulated by the presence of blood, alone con- tracts, not with sufficient power to sustain its circuit or engorge the lungs, yet with sufficient power to convey to the observer that there is some remaining motion of the heart, even when the respiration has finished play. The brain and the glands are free from all serious organic injury ; they may be a little congested. After death by carbonic acid the effects are greatly different, in many instances, from those which follow chloroform. Death ensued more speedily and with less convulsion when the carbonic acid was pure. The blood is not altered in any essential respect; its colour is darkened ; coagulation ensues after removal from the body pretty soon, but is long retarded in the unopened vessels. In all cases the right side of the heart is surcharged with blood. If the death has been rapid, the left side is contracted and empty; if slow, it contains dark blood. On auscultation during the last moments of life, it is found that the respiration and the circulation fail almost simultaneously. On exposing the heart to the air after death, the reaction (which is always ou the right side) is very feeble, and of short duration, and sometimes does not occur at all. The lungs are scarcely congested at all if the death is quick ; if it is prolonged, they become intensely engorged, and very dark-. The appearances are much modified by attempts at resuscitation. Tli" brain is always congested after death from carbonic acid, and where the struggle is prolonged there is usually effusion of serum. Richanison has never found any extravasation. The pathology of all the aliove cn?'^ essential]v depends on an interruption of the natural process of the coi biuation of oxygen with blood ; and this whether the morbid phenomcIIESPIEATOIIY SYSTEM. 147 approximate more to syncope or asphyxia. The obstacles to recovery m suspended animation are four-.—(i) Coagulation of the blood. If this has occurred, life is extinct, but it is often delayed many hours, and never occurs within twenty minutes after the cessation of the circulation. (2) Blockage of the respiratory tract. This is mostly remediable, and so is (3) suspension of oxidation, if the blood can be brought into contact with air. (4) Broken blood-column. This is the great hindrance to reanimatiou. The break occurs in the pulmonic circuit, and is simply explained. Whenever, in any given case, the right side of the heart fails to propel its column of blood, or the lungs refuse to accept the column, the break occurs. Then the left side of the heart, having no change of blood, closes in permanent systole; then the arteries contract in their systole; then the right side of the heart, unable from the first to propel blood along empty vessels, and force open the contracted left heart, fails, moment upon moment, its own supply of sustaining blood through the coronary arteries being reduced; for a time it lives supported by the blood which it contains in its own cavities, but the life is imperfect, and the required labour enormous. When the current of blood from the right to the left side is unbroken, it is as a syphon stream flowing under the gentlest pressure from behind ; but the syphon stream divided, a force is required equivalent to three times that of the health-actirig ventricle to drive into the arterial scale the blood which is essential to every act of life. All the obstacles above named apply with greater or lesser force in every case. There are at the same time certain diflferences dependent on the degree of muscular irritability remaining after the difFei'cnt forms of death. This property continues longest after death by chloroform, the average duration being one hour and eleven minutes. Next, after sudden strangulation, the average being forty-six minutes. Next, after death by rapid suffocation in carbonic acid, the average duration being twenty-nine minutes. Next, after slow suffocation, either by obstruction or inhalation of carbonic acid, the average duration being from fifteen to twenty minutes. Next, after death by drowning, the average duration at common tempera- tures in adult animals being from five to fifteen minutes. Richardson next proceeds to examine the means for restoring animation. He finds artificial respiration to succeed very seldom. In 78 experiments, in which the action of the heart of the animal operated on had positively stopped, artificial respiration produced not the faintest result. The modes of death were various—by chloroform, by carbonic acid, by drowning, by strangulation. In 27 experiments simple air was used for inhalation, the temperature being changed in series from 60° to 110° Fahr., and the experiment being commenced in every case within five minutes after the cessation of the circulation, and in 19 cases within one minute after the ilast contraction. The respiration was made in every case with double- acting bellows. These on one side removed air from the lungs; on the other side they filled from the air, on expansion. In closure they charged the lungs with pure air, and cast the impure air which they had removed into space. They were always applied gently, so as to imitate as nearly as possible the natural respiration of the animal. In every one of these ■ cases no indication of reanimation was ever presented. On opening the bodies the lungs in more than half the cases were found emphysematous;Klil'OllT ON PllACnCAL MEDICINE, 1-1.8 the blood on the right side of the heart was congulatcd. Richardson con- cludes that avtificiiil rcspirntion, if it fails at first, if it does not catch the column of blood which may be crossing the pulmonic circuit, instead of being a means of restoring life, causes death. In 16 instances, as soon as the artificial rcsjjiration was fairly set up, the cheist-wall was neatly removed, and the effects of the insufflation on the heart were observed. In every instance where this was done the right auricle was seen pulsating, and often the ventricle, but this contraction was never sufficient to fill tije pulmonic circuit. It is worthy of observation, nevertheless, that when- ever the air thrown into the lungs is heated above 96° there is an excess in the cardiac action, which excess is very great at a temperature of 120° but even then the action is insufficient to cause a pulmonic current. The increased action is due to the diffused caloric, or it may be excited by simple exposure of the heart to external heated air. The influence of heated air on the dead heart deserves faithful record and remembrance. With oxygen gas no better success was obtained. After death the lungs were found to be unusually red; the left side of the heart was contracted, and the right side full of coagulated blood. Trials with oxyhydrogen, very dilute chlorine air, and ozonized air, all failed to reanimate, and Richardson concludes that all attempts to restore life by artificial respira- tion fail whenever -the action of the heart has ceased. Whenever the action of the heart has not stopped, and a breath of new air restores the heart, respiratory acts will follow as the muscles of respiration receive a new charge of renovated blood. Hence the respiratory act is an act second to the circnlatory, and artificial respiration is really a remedy acting primarily on the heart. There is, however, reason to think that the respiration of ozonized air in cases of slow poisoning by the more fixed narcotics, as opium, would be of essential service. As to methods of performing artificial respiration Richardson prefers the double-acting bellows to any, and in their absence he would use Dr. Silvester's. As to galvanism as a means of restoring life, Richardson says it can be tried as a means to excite the respiration, or to excite the heart. By adapting a metronome to an induction apparatus, it was found practicable to excite an artificial respiration singularly natural in its appearance. The best position for the poles was found to have one inserted through the larynx, and the other through a floating rib, including a few lines of the diaphragm. Richardson repeated, with this arrangement, all the experi- ments which had been made with the bellows, but the results were ail equally negative. The same was the case when the current was used to excite the heart. There is, however, a considerable risk, in galvanizing the heart, of exhausting speedily its irritability, and so actually paralysing it. The next means of resuscitation tried was injection into the chambers of the circulation of some substance possessing the power of exciting mus- cular contraction. Warm water, moist oxygen, peroxide of hydrogen, and ammonia, were tried, but no satisfactory result was obtained. The exciting influence of the latter on the heart and on the muscles was very remarkable. Richardson next inquires whether more good may not be accomplished by trying to set the circulation into action by mechanical means. He argues, if warm blood, or even Marni water, taken from an external source, will reanimate muscular fibre, as we know it will, J149 UESPIRATORY SYSTEM. merely pushing it into the system, surely the blood natural to the subject himself will do the same if set properly in motion and aerated. Several experiments are related which seem to show that this procedure might have the desired effect if the difficulties incident to its e-vecution could be surmounted. Richardson, however, seems to think that the blood-vessels should not be opened, and that the blood should be drawn, not pushed, over the pulmonic circuit. He states that he has seen such singular effects in animals from long-continued gentle warmth, that he "does not know, if we could understand all its bearings, to what it might not lead." It seems it is no uncommon thing that animals drowned or strangled, and sent to the manure-heap for burial, recover, even some hours after they Iiave been placed there. The general conclusions arrived at are—(i) Tiiat artificial respiration can prove of avail only while the heart is trans- mitting a pulmonic wave of blood, and that, in the absence of this wave, artificial respiration is injurious—injurious to the lungs, and fatal to the blood. (2) That if a current of blood can be made to traverse the arte- rial channels, the muscles of respiration, previously at rest, will resume their action, and that respiration will follow, as at birth. (3) That the effect of gentle external warmth is to induce an arterial tide, and that this one subject is specially worthy of further inquiry. (4) That gal- vanism is a dangerous remedy in all cases. (5) That reanimation is possible between the time of so-called death, and the period of the coagu- lation of the blood. Trousseau,—On Ozcena, and its Treatment. Bullet. Gener. de Therapeu- tique. Edin. Med. Jour., December, 1863. In the first place, it is necessary not to confound ozsena depending upon the condition of the nasal fossse with the foetor of the breath caused by some affection of the mouth or throat. The simplest diagnostic means is to direct the patient to close his mouth and nose alternately during expiration; it is then generally easy to determine the source of the foetor. Ozaena sometimes depends on the nasal secretions becoming offensive, from undergoing change with unusual rapidity. The remedy is to use the pocket-handkerchief more frequently and thoroughly. In some per- sons the secretions of the mucous membranes become very fetid under the influence of acute or chronic inflammation. A coryza will thus render the nasal secretions very offensive. Constitutional ozsena is specially associated with the scrofulous or herpetic diathesis, and presents an almost specific odour. This form of the disorder begins about the fourth or fifth year, increases towards pubert}"-, diminishes, but does not disap- pear completely, in old age. The nasal secretions are usually purulent, and often very abundant; sometimes they dry up, and form crusts, which mould themselves to the interior of the nostrils. The odour is most dis- agreeable when the ozaena is connected with disease of the antrum, in which the matter remains, and from which it is discharged in streams on certain movements of the patient. In rarer instances the nasal mucous surface and its secretions are quite normal, but there is considerable fcEtor. Of all the causes of ozaena, the most frequent is syphilis; this form more than any other leads to ulceration and necrosis. Treatment is by no means very successful, but with great perseverance on the partUEVOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 150 both of the physician and patient good results are often obtained. In adults Trousseau recommends the use of the following powders, which are to be snuffed up the nostrils, after the secretions have been removed by water, twice or thrice daily :—Red or white precipitate gr. v + , powdered sugar 5iv, M. Subnitrate of bismuth, Venetian talc, ana 5iv. M. Chlorate of potash 5 ss, powdered sugar 5iv,M. The bismuth may be used as often as the patient pleases. In children we must have recourse to injections of yellow wash, chlorate of potash, nitrate of silver, sulphate of copper or of zinc. The remedies must often be continued for months without interruption, and when the foetor has been absent four to six weeks the severity of the treatment may be relaxed. Relapses must be expected at the catamenial periods, and on the occurrence of catarrhs. Internally, 01. Morrh., given for a long time, is often useful. Tine. lodinii, i)\v—xv, at meal times, and arsenic appear to be beneficial. In syphilitic ozaena mercury and Pot. lod. are necessary. ' Mackenzie, M., M.D. Lond.—On Functional Aphonia. Med. T. and Gaz., Feb. 2ist; vide also Brit. Med. Jour., Sept. 19th. Mackenzie reports two cases from among others treated successfully by the direct application of galvanism to the larynx. Both patients had previously been subjected to a variety of treatment, including the local application of nitrate of silver, and galvanism externally, but without any advantage. The probang is so contrived that the current does not pass through it until a spring is touched, which completes the connection. Mackenzie states that none of the patients who have come under his ob- servation have been of the hysterical temperament, or shown any of the common and acknowledged phenomena of that disease. The method pursued has been to place one sponge externally over the thyroid, and to apply the others to both vocal cords, and also to the posterior surface of the arytenoid cartilages. Johnson, G., M.D.—Med. T. and Gaz., June 6th. Recommends for the practice of laryngoscopy that the concave reflec- tor should be placed on the forehead, and not in front of one eye. This is very commonly done in Paris. It has the advantage of allowing the free use of both eyes, and of making it much easier to direct the light into the patient's throat, and to practise any other requisite manipulation. The eyes are also better shaded from the direct light of the lamp or of the sun, and a more free movement of the reflector in all directions is obtained. Inhaling a little chloroform has proved useful in subduing the reflex sensibility of the fauces. MoRRELii, Mackenzie, M.D.—Med. T. and Gaz., Aug. 8th. Describes an instrument for supporting the laryngoscope mirror after its introduction into the fauces. The instrument (termed a self-holder) is very easily applied, and easily borne, and is very portable. It consists of a thin plate, which is put into the patient's mouth so as to be on n level with the upper teeth ; on the under surface of the plate is a slight projecting ledge, on which the stem of the mirror, after its introduction into the fauces, can easily be made to rest. The plate is kept in its place IUESPIRATOKY SYSTEM. 151 by means of a spring, which passes round the head, and, through the intervention of a rather broad pad, presses just below the occipital protu- berance. Ey means of this arrangement, the hands are left free for making topical applications. Merkel, L.—Report on recent Contributions to Laryngoscopy. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. 313. Thirty-four papers are cited in this collection, some of which have been noticed on former occasions. A variety of instruments are described wliicli have been invented for different purposes, as fixing the laryn- geal mirror, the tongue, or the soft palate, raising the epiglottis, &c. Various proceedings respecting local treatment are noticed, of which we need only mention Fournie's plan for inhaling finely pulverized substances, such as alum, tannin, acetate of lead, nitrate of silver. He uses a box provided with two glas^tubes, through one of whicli the patient inspires forcibly, while the other passes down to a saucer containing the medi- cated powder, which is placed at the bottom of the box. Examination with the laryngoscope shows that the dust which is raised by the current of the air enters the larynx. Semeleder's remarks on rhinoscopy are given at some length. Under the head of pathology and treatment we have some observations by Lewin respecting the epiglottis, the posterior wall of the larynx, and the arytenoid processes. He shows that the epiglottis is raised when a high note is sounded, and depressed when the reverse is the case ; if it is much depressed, the tone is muffled. When one endea- vours to give to the letter a during phonation a deep, hollow timbre, the epiglottis recedes from the anterior angle of the glottis as far as possible, its free border arches itself to a convexity directed towards the glottis, so that in this way a vault is formed over the laryngeal part of the pharynx (fangrohr). The vocal undulations are thus thrown back by the epi- glottis, and do not freely reach the buccal cavity, as they do when the epiglottis is vertical. The formation of these deep sounds, if they are prolonged for any length of time, is a laborious effort, because the con- cave curvature of the epiglottis is produced by very thin muscular fasci- culi lying iu the aryteno-epiglottic fold. Persons, especially preachers, who are compelled by their calling to make often such exertions of their voice, are liable to suffer from morbid afiections of the parts concerned. Lewin found in such preachers a remarkably great lowering of the free part of the epiglottis, and a considerable thickening of the aryteno-epi- glottic ligaments, as the cause of this altered position. Without the size of the epiglottis having at all increased, its anterior part was often so much lowered that even during the utterance of high tones it was not materially raised, and had assumed the shape of a bowl, while the aryteno-epiglottic folds were considerably thickened and of a livid colour, and the vocal cords were swollen and red. Follicular enlargements and small ulcera- I tions were found at the anterior attachment of the aryteno-epiglottic I folds and in other parts also. Elevation of the epiglottis by artificial means diminished the hoarseness, and the use of local remedies which rendered it more movable had the same effect. Tlie mucous membrane of the posterior wall of the larynx is poor in elastic fibre, but contains inumerous grape-like glands projecting from its deep surface, During15il EEPOUT ON PKACTICAL JtEDICINE, tlie movements of the arytenoid cartilages this membrane is alternately thrown into folds and stretched, the excitement of which disposes these glands to excessive secretion. This, again, when there exists a tendency to tuberculous deposit, leads to the formation of funnel-shaped ulcers, and in such circumstances a simple erosion by becoming infected with tuberculous or syphilitic pus may change into a specific ulcer. New growths do occasionally occur in this situation, but are rare. On the other hand, swelling and thickening of the mucous membrane are com- mon, especially in officers, who have often to give words of command. The relaxed membrane gets between the vocal cords and arytenoid pro- cesses, and appears often, when the glottis is open, as a pea-shaped swelling. The voice is rather but not remarkably hoarse ; tiie principal com- plaint of such patients is that they experience an unpleasant tickling in the larynx, which easily induces coughing. Generally, disease of the mucous membrane between the two arytenoid cartilages produces spas- modic reflex phenomena, whose import has hitherto been mistaken, as difficulty of swallowing, vomiting, and spasm of the glottis. Lewin next remarks on changes taking place in the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage. The yellow spot in which the elastic fibres of the vocal cord pass through fibro-cartilage into the hyaline substance of the arytenoid, and which, in all vocal actions, is chiefly exposed to pressure, is in phthi- sical persons very much disposed to the formation of small ulcers, which penetrate to the fibro-cartilage, and denude the vocal process on its inner side, and destroy it; especially when, as often occurs in the tuberculous dyscrasia, the extremity of the vocal process is converted into a sharp, bony point. The ulcers creep forwards along the vocal cords, find pene- trate more deeply at their anterior commissui'e, where there are numerous glands. With regard to catarrhal laryngitis, Tiirck affirms that it may be limited to the epiglottis, or to the membrane covering the arytenoid cartilages. In the latter case, when there is much swelling, the glottis cannot be completely closed. The superior vocal cords may be inflamed on both or on one side only; when highly inflamed, they appear as red rolls, covering over the vocal cords, closing the ventricles, and impairing the vibration of the lower cords. The latter may be reddened in streaks, or more or less completely; sometimes they are also swollen, and form a reddish ridge projecting at its internal border, or develop a small round tumour, or they may appear as if their surface had been cauterized, and their epithehum had separated. A distended vein is often seen running parallel to their inner free borders. In two instances Lewin observed an actual specific inflammation of the vocal cords, such that they appeared, as it were, saturated with blood, while the symptoms appeared to be those of croup. There is nothing characteristic in the cough, when the vocal cords are inflamed. Hoarseness almost constantly occurs, but may have disappeared when one cord still remains red and swollen. The glottis is sometimes contracted by the swelling of the vocal cords and of the mucous membrane lining the posterior wall of the larynx. Tiie duration of laryngeal catarrh varies from weeks to months; when very intense, the inflammation may lead to the formation of ulcers, which, however, gene- rally heal without loss of substance. Laryngeal catarrh may be chronic from its commencement, and almost limited to the vocal cords ; and thenRESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 153 without giving rise to cough or pain, may cause abiding hoarseness, which interferes materially with singing. In chronic catarrhs the colour of the cords varies considerably; they become thickened and cord-like and deve- lop granulations and (warty) growths, very similar to those which are formed in syphilis. Catarrh, symptomatic of syphilis or tubercle, may leave after its subsidence cicatricial degeneration of the mucous mem- brane and the submucous tissue. In the treatment of aphonia depending on chronic laryngitis, with swelling of the vocal cords, as well as of that which results 'from mere nervous depression, Mascarel recommends the use of the thermal springs of MontDore. These waters are stated to exert n special modifying or substitutive action on the mucous membrane of the throat and air-passages, including the bronchi. They are effectual even when the ventricles of the larynx are dilated, and its intrinsic mus- cles are paralysed. Gerhardt ('Wurzb. Med. Ztschr.,'iii, i, p. lo, 1862) directs attention to a cause of hoarseness, which hitherto has been almost overlooked. This is catarrhal swelling of the inter-arytenoid fold of mucous membrane, which prevents the juxtaposition of the arytenoid cartilages requisite when the glottis is closed for the formation of sound. This swelling is formed mostly in acute, sometimes also in chronic catarrhs. It is evident even during the quiescent condition ; hut during phonation it applies itself to the inner surface of both vocal cartilages, so that the glottis, which in the rest of its extent is closed, so as to appear like a line, presents posteriorly a triangular open fissure. Other causes, such as condylomata, ulcers, cicatrices, &c., may in the same way prevent the due apposition of the vocal cords, and allow the greater part of the air to escape without producing sound. Gerhardt believes that many apho- nias of short duration which are usually ascribed to paralysis of the vocal cords arise in this way. He finds caustic applications most successful when violent muscular and secretory reaction ensue. Tiirck says that in phthisical patients, besides actual tubercular ulcers,, simple catarrhal and follicular occur, the latter especially on the posterior surface of the epi- glottis, where follicles abound, and on the anterior surface of the upper division of the posterior wall of the larynx. These laryngeal ulcers are situated mostly at the lower portion of the posterior surface of the epi- glottis ; they seldom perforate it except at the borders, which then appear as if eaten away. As a rule, the contour of the organ is preserved, and in this respect tuberculous ulcers differ remarkably from the syphilitic, leprous, and cancerous. These ulcers of the posterior surface of the epi- glottis give rise to but few subjective symptoms. Ulcers of the vocal cords are less characteristic; they consist either in excoriations, when the cords, in a great part of their extent, present a grayish-yellow colour, are deficient in their normal brilliancy, and show a superficial depression at the diseased part; or they are larger and more extensive, and show irre- gular and even undermined borders. Even when the ulcers are large the voice is only hoarse, not lost. Sometimes the superior vocal cords ulce- rate in circumscribed spots, without the lower being involved ; sometimes the morbid action extends by continuity of tissue through the ventricle. Ulcers are very frequent on the mucous membrane covering the transverse arytenoid muscle, and are often characteristic of latent pulmonary tuber- culosis. They are best seen when the patient's head is held upright, andHEPOBT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. 164 present a serrated border. They are often associated with ulcers on the epiglottis, vocal cords, and posterior internal part of the larynx. Lewia ('Med. Centr. Zt.,' xxx, 83, i86j) allirms that ulcerations of the postero- internal Willi of the larynx are of the greatest value in forming a diagnosis between syphil is and phthisis, even when auscultation and percussion leave us in doubt. Both pain and hoarseness niiiy be absent, and there- fore laryngoscopy is never to be omitted when there is any suspicion of tuberculosis or syphilis, and the diagnosis is at all uncertain. Lewin states that he has never been deceived in any diagnosis founded on laryn- goscopic examination. Loss of the arytenoid cartilages, one or both, from necrosis, produces aphonia and defective closure of the glottis, with diffi- culty of expectoration. We tlien observe that the posterior wall of the larynx has fallen in, especially when one cartilage only is lost; that there is a want of the usual phonatory movements, which is most remarkable in the case just mentioned, but becomes less so when the mucous membrane in this situation is much swollen or indurated; and, lastly, in some cases large, deep, ulcerated excavations may be seen at the posterior part of both upper and lower vocal cords. Syphilitic idcers of the larynx, according to Tiirck, are mostly situated on the epiglottis; when they last long they penetrate deeply, and perforate, or even destroy, the cartilage more or less completely. The ulcers are surrounded with a red area, and their margins are mostly swollen, by which, as well as by the depression of the epiglottis, the view into the lai-ynx is impeded. They do not occasion, generally, much dysphagia. Ulcers also occur on the vocal cords (upper and lower), the aryteno-epiglottic folds, or the posterior wall of tiie larynx. When shallow, they heal without leaving recognisable cicatrices, but when deep they cause distortions of the vocal cords, stenosis, and adhesions at the anterior angle of the glottis. The pharynx is rarely free when the larynx is attacked. Quasi-condylomatous growths from the mucous mem- brane are also the result of syphilis. Tiirck mentions a case in which these grew on both arytenoid cartilages and one of the upper vocal cords, and were so large as to cover the inferior cords, yet disappeared com- pletely by mercurial inunction. Balassa records two cases of oedema of the glottis, one the result of hereditary syphilis, the other consecutive to typhus. In the first there was considerable swelling of the epiglottis and extensive ulceration, in the second serous submucous effusion of the epiglottis, the vocal cords, and the aryteno-epiglottic folds. In both tracheotomy had to be performed. Ileyer reports the case of a serai- idiotic boy, set. 8, whose speech was extremely imperfect, but sud- denly improved to a very great extent after the administration of a cold douche while he was in a warm bath. The improvement was permanent. Lente records two cases in which aphonia ceased permanently after inha- lation of chloroform or ether to ansesthesia. Tiirck distinguishes different paralytic affections of the muscles of tlie glottis—(i) Phonic paralysis of the constrictors.—Either the whole glottis may remain open and gaping during attempts at phonation, or only a part, viz., the anterior or liga- mentous glottis. During swallowing, however, the glottis is completely closed, and dilatation also is properly performed. This paralysis is always bilateral. Its causes are catarrh, tuberculosis, and typhus. Treat- ment consists in stimulation by galvanism, caustics, &c., but in one caseEESPIUATOUY SYSTEM. 155 recorded by Tiirck which had lasted nearly five years, and where the patient was amenorrhoeal and suffered from dyspnoea venesection to i lb. procured speedy recovery. (2) General paralysis of the constrictors.—In this case not only the phonic, but also the other movements of the glottis, are more or less abolished. The paralysis is almost always bilateral. (3) Permanent unilateral contraction of the glottis is where one vocal cord approaches more or less closely to the median line, while the apex of the arytenoid of the same side appears very prominent, and often projects beyond the median line. In phonation and coughing the vocal cord remains almost immovable, the voice is weakened, the cough not strongly marked. Here the crico-arytenoid post, of the corresponding side is para- lysed, and generally also some fasciculi of the contractors. Rheumatism, catarrh, and cancer of the air-tubes are mentioned as the causes of this affection. The symptoms of new growths in the larynx are—(i) Hoarse- ness, which depends more on the situation of the tumour than on its size. Small growths may produce it if they interfere with the action of the vocal cords ; large ones may not, if they leave these important parts free. (2) Cough, which is also very dependent on the seat of the growth ; it is generally intermittent and convulsive. (3) Byspnosa, which also is seldom continuous, and which is most experienced in in- or ex-piration, according as the obstruction is seated above or below the glottis; peculiar respiratory murmurs are in some cases to be heard. (4) Uneasy sensa- tions in the neck, specially in the larynx, as if mucus was sticking at some part; sometimes these are the sole indications. The importance of de- tecting these morbid formations is very apparent, from the circumstance that such patients have been regarded as syphilitic or phthisical, and in consequence have undergone a great variety of useless treatment, with much trouble, pain, and expense. On the epiglottis the new growths are almost always situated, either on its base or on its postero-inferior surface. The best means of getting a view of the posterior surface of the epiglottis with the aryteno-epiglottic ligaments and vocal cords is to get the patient to utter a high falsetto note. New growths are sometimes developed in the ventricles, and push the superior vocal cord upwards, and the lower down- wards. Until they protrude from the orifice they are, of course, in- visible. Lewin cites 33 cases of new growths situated on the inferior vocal cords; of which 8 occupied both, 7 the left, 16 the right cord. As to their nature, 18 were polypi, 5 epithelial growths, 3 fibro-plastic tumours, 3 cancroid, i encephaloid, i a syphilitic excrescence. The frequent occurrence of growths in this situation is accounted for, accord- ing to Lewin, by the peculiar combination in this part of pavement epi- thelium with elastic and muscular tissue. On the false vocal cords growths are more rare, as well as on the arytenoid cartilages. On the anterior wall of the larynx growths occur much more frequently than on the posterior, which is a favorite seat of ulcers. In the lower parts of the larynx and in the trachea growths of various sorts are not uncommon. The rest of the report is chiefly taken up with a description of the various instruments and proceedings employed for the removal of growths from the larynx, and with the records of numerous cases. For some notice of these ». Year-book for 1863, p. 119. A notice of some cases examined rhinoscopically closes the report.RKPORT ON PUACTICAL MEDICINE. 156 Sanderson, J. B.—Ora Asthma. Med. Tim. and Gnz., May 161I1. Saiulerson regards as the chnrftctcristic elements of asthmatic dyspnoea— (i) Excessive expansion of the chest. (2) Resisted hut forcible elibrtfi to expire. (3) Diminution of the excliange of air in the chest, and conse- quent venous condition of the blood. In the asthmatic state the chest is arched forwards in extreme inspiration, the diaphragm sinks below its normal level, so that its power is lost, while the almost fruitless efforts to renew the air in tlie chest are accomplished by elevation of the upper ribs. The expiratory muscles of the abdominal wail are in excessive action, but, in spite of their efforts, air is expelled from the chest with extreme diffi- culty and in small quantity. The condition of blood which is thus pro- duced gives rise to the sensation of want of breath, and compel* the patient to make conscious and voluntary efforts to get rid of the used air, which is, as it were, locked up in his chest. Sanderson explains the de- velopment of this state by remarking that during the most profound sleep (when asthma mostly supervenes) the muscles which open the glottis become more relaxed, and the aperture is therefore narrower, so that expi- ration becomes more difficult. As the laryngeal resistance is normally greater to the egress than to the ingress of air, the chest falls more and more with each respiration, the inspiratory power of the diaphragm lessens, the exchange of air is diminished, the blood becomes less arterial, and thus, without any agency beyond the intensification of that condition of respiration which exists in natural sleep, all the elemeulsof asthma are developed. Asthma may thus be traced to disorder of the respiratory function of the glottis. As, however, the same nerve supplies the muscles of the glottis and the contractile fibre of the lung-tissue, it is highly probable that both are in a similar state of relaxation. The above view accords perfectly with what is known as to the intimate relation of asthma and emphysema. Emphysema is rather the consequence than the cause of asthma ; it results from resisted but powerful efforts on the part of the expiratory muscles to expel air from an expanded lung. This is precisely the state of things in asthma. But the relation between the disease and the lesion is rather that of community of cause than of consequence. Temporary over-expansion of the lung is a constituent of asthma; perma- nent expansion cannot exist without emphysema. During the attack of asthma stimulants are most useful. Sandahl, 0. Tn.— 0)1 the Effects of Condensed Air on the Human Or- ganism, 171 its Physiological and Therapeutical Eolations. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 173. We refer to this paper, which is too long for our limits, especially with reference to the fatal cases recorded as having occurred from working in compressed air in Ireland {v. p. 88.) The method is said to have been more or less successful in acute and chronic laryngitis, in tracheal catarrh, and acute and chronic bronchitis, in croupous and capillary bronchitis, chronic pneumonia, emphysema and asthma, pulmonary tuberculosis, pertussis, summer catarrh, pulmonary atelectasis, ancemia, chlorosis, and struma, and deafness depending on obstruction of the Eustachian tube. Establish- ments for administration of baths of condensed air are said (0 exist at Lyons, Montpellier, Nizza, Paris, London, and at Johannisberg.RESPIRATOEY SYSTEM. 157 Hyde Saltek, M.D.—Lancet, Nov. 14th. Records of three cases of extremely severe asthma, in which very great rehef was obtained during the paroxysm by full doses of alcoholic liquor, brandy, whiskey, gin. The stimulant is to be taken with a little very hot water," the hotter apparently the better. If taken cold, it does no good. Its continued use requires that the dose should be constantly increased, in order to produce the same effect. Intoxication is not necessary to the beneficial effect. In the recorded cases all other means had been used fruitlessly. Abbotts Smith, W., M.D.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., Nov. 21st. Relates a case of hay fever, and suggests that it is occasioned by benzoic acid being given off in emanations from the Anthoxanthmn odoratum, and the Holcus odoratus during hot weather. Cold bathing, ice internally (allowed to dissolve in the mouth), lobelia, and quinine with sulphuric acid, are the best remedies. Hjaltelin, J., M.D.—On the Epidemic Influenzas of Iceland, especially the last one of 1862. Edin. Med. Jour., Feb., 1863. Hjaltelin says that it often happens that this disorder arrives in Iceland a year later than it does on the Continent of Europe. The epidemic of 1862 was preceded by a dry, thick, ill-smelling fog, and prodigious swarms of flies. Great apathy was a marked symptom. The fever had a marked type, subsiding in the morning and aggravated in the evening, followed by restlessness and neuralgic pains, especially lumbago, otalgia, odontalgia, neuralgia intercostalis and facialis, and hemicrania. All the mucous membranes of the body were, in the more severe cases, in an evident hyper- semic state. That of the urinary organs he notices as being especially in- volved, and so also was often that of the intestinal canal. Serous effusions in the pleurse and pericardium were extremely common, and occurred when there was no clear sign of previous inflammation. Hjaltelin believes the disease to be both contagious and the result of atmospheric miasm. He recommends quinine as a preservative, and veratria as a remedy in the disorder, besides other anticatarrhal remedies. Easton, J. H., M.D.—On the Use of so-called Expectorants in Disease of the Mucous Membrane of the Lungs. Glasgow Med. Journ., Oct., ^^^•3- ... Easton criticises the"views of Dr. Gairdner, and states—(i) That as in the early stage of bronchitis the membrane is inflamed and dry, and there is nothing to be expectorated, the remedies which are employed cannot be called expectorants ; they ought rather to be termed relaxing broncho-muco- alterants. (3) That as in chronic bronchitis the system is often in an atonic state, aiid ihe mucous membrane of the lungs is always so, the in- dication is to invigorate by agents which might be termed stimulating broncho-muco-alterants. (3) That to excite the muscles to healthy con- traction which perform the necessary act of coughing, various stimulants should be used, which may be termed pneumo-musculo-excitants. Gkiepenkeiil.— On the Treatment of Hooping-cough by Ergot of Bye, I Deutsche Klinik. Edin. Med. Journ., Dec, 1863.REPORT ON niACTICAL MEDICINE. 158 Griepenkerl boils gr. xx—xxx of coarsely powdered ergot for half an hour with of isinglass, and adds ^iss of white sugar. Of this mixture he gives 5j adis horis to a child aged five to seven years. For younger children the quantity of ergot is to be gr. x—xv. During the treatment no articles of food containing tannin are to be taken. Tiie remedy is not to be given until the beginning of the third week of the disease, and after all complications have been got rid of. The paroxysms are often aggra- vated at first, but diminish in five or ten days. RoGEE.—Practical Remarks on Pertussis. Journ. Med. et de Chir. pratiq., vol. xxxiv., p. 24. Roger advises that infants should be kept, if possible, from being ex- posed to the infection. Occasional ipecacuan emetics, belladonna, and cofi"ee, are the remedies he finds valuable. Coffee does not diminish the attacks, but only the vomitings which succeed them. Inunction with belladonna ointment in the axilise, and inhalation of ether are also ser- viceable. Change of air is not advisable except in the decline of the disease. GiBB ; Hakley.—Lancet, Sept. 26th. Relate several cases of pertussis treated very advantageously by bromide of ammonium. The dose is gr. ij—iij ter die for infants ; for older chil- dren, from gr. iv to gr. viij or x. It seems to influence the special nervous symptoms more than the catarrhal. If there be a tendency to bronchitis or pneumonia, it should be combined with Vin. Ipecac. Leaked, A.—The Use of Arsenic i7i Phthisis. Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 17th. From its singular power under certain circumstances of restoring health, Leared was induced to try the remedy in phthisis. He gives a brief report of 9 cases, in 4 of which cough and expectoration were improved in 3, pains of chest removed in i, night sweats were arrested in 2, flushing of the face much relieved in i, and appetite greatly increased in i. Cotton, R. P.—Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 24th. States that he gave to 25 patients in the Brompton Hospital (8 males and 17 females) Tine. Ferri Muriatis m^x—xv ter die for periods varying from three weeks to four months. 01. Morrh. was only given occasionally. The results were that 12 patients improved greatly, ^ slightly, and 8 not at all. Ten of the 17 more or less improved cases did not take any cod- liver oil; but by subsequent observations it was suflSciently evident that the greatest good was brought about by the combined influence of these two substances. Smith, Edwaud, M.D., F.R.S.—A Statistical Inquiry into the prevalence of numerous conditions affecting the Constitution in 1000 Phthisical Persons when in Health. Dublin Q. J., Feb., 1863. The ages of the patients at the period of inquiry gave an average of 29-66 years for the males and 27-5 years for the females. It was found tiiat 44 per cent, of tiie whole were between 20 and 30, about one eiglith were under 20 years, and 3 per cent, were above 50 years. As to tlie place of birth 30 per cent, were born in London or its denser suburbs, and 65 per cent.EESPIEATOUY SYSTEM. 159 in other parts of England. As to the place of residence, 36 per cent, had lived in London during the greater part of their lives, 51 per cent, in the country, and 7 per cent, in various places ; but during the last three years ^3 per cent, had lived in London and 40 per cent, in the country. As to edu- cation, all with the exception of 8-8 per cent, could both read and write, and only I4'3 per cent, had been badly nourished at any period of their lives. As to the parents of the patients, it appeared that the average age of the patients being 28-8 years, 54 per cent, had lost the father, 46 per cent, the mother, and 28 per cent, had lost both parents. In 25 per cent, both parents were living. The average duration of life of the parents who had died was—mothers 48-2 years, fathers ^52-9 years. In the period preceding the patients' birth, 18 per cent, of one of the parents had had feeble health, and of that number the greater proportion, viz., II per cent., were the mothers. Both parents were similarly affected in 2 per cent. When the whole course of life was included, the propor- tion increased, so that it became 34 per cent., and still the mothers ex- hibited a preponderance of 8 per cent, over the fathers. Both parents were feeble in 4-3 per cent. In 23 per cent, one or both of the parents had been generally unsteady, mostly the males. Of the parents, one or both had died from consumption in 21 per cent.; brothers or sisters in 33'3 per cent.; parents, brothers, or sisters, in 36 per cent.; grand-parents in 2'8 per cent. In every instance the mortality amongst the relatives of females was greater than in those of males; and iu reference to the im- mediate relatives—parents, brothers, and sisters combined—the excess was 19 per cent. The proportion of presumed scrofulous disease, with the exception of the continuance of enlarged glands in 5 per cent, of the cases, was utterly insignificant. In only 8 per cent, were there any evidences known of the existence of that class of diseases. Rheumatism and asthma were the most prevalent diseases (22'6 and 13*3 per cent.); liver diseases and gout were next in order of frequency (9*2 and 7*2 per cent.) ; ague and typhus fever had each occurred in nearly 5 per cent, of the cases, insanity in 4'3, and cancer in 3*2 per cent., while brain and kidney affections and diabetes had been still less frequent. In only six instances, or '6 per cent., had the parents been related before their mar- riage. At the time of the patients' birth 81 per cent, of the parents were between the ages of 20 and 40. Only 2'8 per cent, were under 20 years, and in about 2 per cent, the age was from 55 to 70 years. As to the number of children in each family, it appeared that families with 6, 7, and 8 children |were the most frequent; in only 3 per cent, was there but I child, and families with 3 children or less formed only 15-4 per cent, of the whole. Families having from 5 to 10 children constituted 56 per cent, of the whole. The average number of children to a family was 7-5. At the time of the inquiry 40 per cent, of the parents' children had died. As to the order of birth of the patients among the parents' children, 20 per cent, of the whole were first children, and from that there was an unbroken line of diminution to those who were the tenth children. Those who were first, second, and third children constituted one half of the whole number. The following statements regard the patients only. As to the colour of the hair, it was found that the femalesUEPORT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. Hoemoptysis, considering the smallest streak as such, occurred in 32 2 per IGO colours Mere twice as frequent in males as in females. As to the eyes, the proportion of black was quite insignificant; tlie gray shades embraced 74 per cent. ; the brown colour was more, and the gray colour less, fre- quent in females than in males. The florid complexion was met with in nearly 60 per cent., and the pale in 40 per cent. The florid was more frequent in the females. As to bodily conformation, about an equal num- ber of all the patients were fleshy and spare ; the females, however, much exceeded the males in the fleshy class, and vice versd. The extremities were apt to be cold in rather more than half the cases, mostly among the females. The susceptible temperament prevailed largely; it was found in 73-5 per cent, of the cases, in 74-5 percent, of the females, and in 68-5 per cent, of the males. As the appearance of the catamenia, 63 per cent, of the whole had ^the menstrual epoch at 13, 14, 15, or 16 years of age. As to irregularity, in only 6 per cent, was there an excessive quantity, in 29 per cent, it was deficient, and 167 the returns were infrequent. Leucorrhcea had been persistent in 42*2 per cent, of all the cases. As to discharges of blood, epistaxial and hsemorrhoidal, the latter were rare, the former rather frequent. There were 43-5 per cent, married, and of these 13 per cent, were childless. Four fifths of the whole had their first child when between 20 and 30 years of age. The number of children Avas not large per each family; those with i and 2 constituted 44 per ceut., those with 3 and 4 gave 20'8 per cent., those with 5, 6, and 7 were 2i"8 per cent. As to the general health of the children, it was feeble in 43 per cent, of all the cases, and in a higher ratio among females than males. Abortion had occurred in 46'2 per cent, of the child-bearing females. Of the male patients, nearly one half smoked, one fourth had drank to excess, and per cent, had led a bad life in various ways at some period, mostly before 20. Syphilis and gonorrhoea had occurred in 27*5 and 50 per cent, of the cases. Late hours had been kept in i9'3 per cent, of the whole cases, and four times oftener in men than in women. Anxiety to an injurious degree had been experienced in 22'2 per cent. ; 70 per cent, complained of some injury resulting from their occu- pation, the males to the amount of 85, the females to 49 percent. The most frequent source of injury was exposure, after which closely came long hours and close and hot rooms. In 9 per cent, mercury had been inhaled or imbibed so as to cause injury, twice as often among males as in females. General bleeding had been practised in 15 per cent, of tlie cases, much more frequently in females. Flannel had not been worn usually by 25 per cent. Only 2*5 per cent, had been dry-nursed ; in 24 per cent, the pa- tients had been born of feeble habit, females in a ratio of 5 percent, higher than males. Good general health during the periods of childhood, puberty, and adolescence, had been experienced by 78-5 per cent., whilst 7-5 per cent, had never enjoyed it. Good health was 20 per cent, more common in males', and unbroken feeble health 7 per cent, more frequent in females. The appetite had been generally good in 83 per cent, of the cases, with an excess in favour of the males of 18 per cent. It had never been good ni 7 per cent., with a large excess on the part of the females. The lungs were considered to be naturally delicate in 12-6 per cent, of the cases, women being more liable to it than men in the proportion of 17 : p'O-KESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 161 cent, in women, and in 33 per cent, in men. As to previous diseases, 16 per cent, of the cases bad not bad measles, 65-4 per cent, had not had scarlet fever, 60 per cent. Lad not had smallpox, and 41 per cent, had not had hooping-cough. In each of the four diseases the greatest num- ber of cases occurred between 2 and 5 years of age, and the proportion was, hooping-cough 38-8, measles 31 "a, smallpox 24'7, and scarlet fever 32'3 per cent. No recognised ill effect ensued from these diseases that is worth much notice ; in particular, they do not seem to have produced general debility. As to presumed scrofulous and allied diseases, some member of tills class had been present in 21 per cent., and of that i2'8 per cent, alone were enlargement of the glands, and 4-per cent, long-continued disease of the eyes ; and hence the affections of the ears, bones, and joints, marasmus, and peaked chest, were too infrequent to assume any import- ance. No case of rickets was found in the 600 males. Of other diseases it was found that no instance of insanity or diabetes occurred among the 1000 patients ; that the most prevalent diseases were inflammation of the lungs and rheumatism or rheumatic fever, the former of which had occurred at some period of life in 16-7, and the latter in i4'8 per cent. After these came fever, chiefly typhus, and frequent diarrhoea, each of which occurred in about 8 per cent. Ague had occurred in 5*6, and liver affections in 4*3 per cent., fits in 2'8 per cent. Dysentery, kidney affec- tions, brain disease, gout, and cancer, were none of them above i per cent. The general result of Dr. Smith's investigation leads him to support Prof. Walshe's statement, that " phthisis in the adult hospital popula- tion of this country is, to a slight amount only, a disease demonstrably derived from the parents." He affirms that phthisis is not necessarily nor Tisually a disease directly transmitted from the parent to the offspring, but that in a large proportion of phthisical patients the parents, brothers, and sisters, had experienced feeble health and a somewhat lessened dura- tion of life. There was not, however, a majority of the cases so con- nected. His investigations indicate clearly a considerable preponderance of unfavorable circumstances on the side of the females, and show how great is the mother's influence upon the health of the children. He con- cludes that, while there is much evidence to show that the disease is frequently allied with a state of system defective in vital power and resist- ance, both of the patient and his parents and his children, yet that the large proportion in which none of those states of health could be disco- vered is sound proof that phthisical patients are a mixed class, and that the disease arises under very diverse conditions. GiNTRAc, H.—On the Dimensions of the Chest in Pulmonary Phthisis. Arch. d. Med., Nov., 1862. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan., 1863. The author bases his observations upon the ascertained dimensions of the chest in 140 healthy people and 80 consumptive ones, whom he [I arranges in three classes, according to age. Each of tliese classes he again subdivides into two groups, according to the periods of "crudity" or softening of the tubercle. The following are his conclusions :—(i) The chests of phthisical patients are less in circumference than those of the j healthy. (2) This diminution in the size of the chest, appreciable from162 REPOET ON P11ACTICA.L MEDICINE. the commencement of the tuberculization, increases in proportion to the progress of the disease ; it may reach in the second period ten centi- metres for the upper circumference, eight for the mammary, and six for the lower. (3) The upper circumference of ihe chest, with but few ex- ceptions, is very much larger than the mammary and lower ones in all the periods of the tubercular affection. (4) The interval between the two nipples in man gives an exact idea of the size of the thorax ; it represents the quarter of the mammary circumference ; in the adult it measures 29 centimetres in the normal condition ; 19 in the earlier period of phthisis, and 17 in the second. (5) The measurement of the inter- mammary space deserves attention, and should be an element of diagnosis in the appreciation of any tendency to pulmonary phthisis. The author lays stress on hygiene and special gymnastics of the respiratory organs as essential elements of the pi-ophylactic treatment of phthisis. Efforts of inspiration and exercise of the upper limbs should be resorted to for the dilatation of the chest. Millet, Aug.—On the danger of employing Ferruginous Preparations at the commencement of Phthisis. Bull. Gen. de Therap., June 15th, 1863. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan. Millet is of opinion that the anaemia, which is one of the precursory phenomena of phthisis in certain young women, is only temporarily benefited by the administration of iron, which fearfully accelerates the progress of the tuberculous degeneration. Cotton, R. P.—Med. Times and Gaz., May 30th. States, with regard to the use of dilute phosphoric acid in phthisis— (i) That it acts beneficially as a tonic in certain instances, but that as a general rule it is inferior to some of the other mineral acids. (2) That when taken in conjunction with iron its good effects appear to be con- siderably enhanced. Of twenty-five cases, three were much benefited, and eight a little, and fourteen derived no benefit from taking the drug. Leaked, A., M.D.—0?t the Treatment of Phthisis by the Hot-air Bath. Lancet, Nov. 21st, Dec. _5th. Leared records three cases, in all of which the bath appears to have been highly beneficial. In two of them the disease was very serious. Coughs, dyspnoea, and night sweats, were decidedly relieved by the bath. Hsemoptj'sis was never induced by it. No debility was produced by the bath, but its effect was rather comforting and sustaining. Leared thinks that the hot-air bath and cold plunge in a great measure supply the defi- ciencies of climate, by rendering patients more tolerant of our own change- able seasons. Leudet.—0?» the use of Acetate of Lead in Pneumonia. Bullet. Gdner de Th6rapeut., Nov. i^th, 1862. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 17th. The remedy was given inVorty cases (thirty-one males and nnie females), of whom three died. The disease was unilateral in nil but one. The mean age of the patients was 364 years. The duration of the use of the medicine varied from one to fifteen days, the average being six. Ibe total163 EESPIKATOUY SYSTEM. quantity administered varied in different subjects from 7 to 80 grains, the average amount was about 40 grains. No signs of poisoning were produced, nor any blue line ; neither was there constipation, but, instead, diarrhoea in half the cases. The effect on the pulse was to diminish the number of pulsations from 100 or 120 down to 70, 60, and even 50 or 40 on the fourth day after commencing treatment. In one-half the cases returning crepitant rhonchus was heard after the first day of treatment. In nine cases out of thirty the stethoscopic signs remained stationary for two or three days, when resolution commenced. In six cases out of thirty the symptoms increased in intensity after the treatment was com- menced, but this continued only one day in five cases and two days iu another. Convalescence was rapid. BoTJCHDT.—On Ohronic Congestionof the Lungs simulating Early Phthisis. Jour, de Med. et de Chir. pratiq., Sept., 1863, p. 392. Bouchut states that the diagnosis of the two states is often very diffi- cult, but that we possess a touchstone of discrimination in the effects of cold and warm sulphurous springs, aided by a residence in the country. These have the best results in mere pulmonary congestion, but are use- less in actual phthisis. The actual condition of the lung is one of partial collapse and hypersemia, in consequence of which it does not receive the usual amount of air, and passes into a sub-inflammatory induration. The disorder is an asthenic affection, often connected with struma or the herpetic diathesis, and ixquires to be combated by tonics and stimulants. Skoda.—On the Treatment of Pulmonary Inflammation. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., viii, 5, 6, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. 34. Skoda believes that we can have no certainty as to whether pneumonia is commencing, and has no faith in the possibility of arresting it in a very early stage. Even when the disease has declared itself we have no sure guide in each individual case to a successful treatment. Observations, made several years ago, as to the results obtained when pneumonia was treated by different methods, showed that where venesection was employed the rate of mortality was most unfavorable, and the reverse where it was quite put aside. For six years subsequently Skoda has experimented in the treatment of pneumonia. He does not find now that abstinence from bloodletting gives a favorable rate of mortality. The general result of his experience is that the i-ate of mortality may accidentally take a very favorable form during a certain interval under each of the different modes of treatment, and again may assume a very unfavorable form, though no reason for the change can be discovered. Certainly the exist- ing epidemic tendency has nothing to do with it. From his numerical researches Skoda comes to the conclusion that treatment exerts no remark- able influence on the rate of mortality on a large scale. There is no specific for pneumonia, but the sufferings of the patients can be alleviated, and some troublesome and life-perilling symptoms can be removed. Vene- section is only advisable when peculiar symptoms are present, either such as by their severity threaten life or are capable of being lessened by it. Such are delirium, sopor, convulsions from arrest of the circulation in the cervical veins, impending asphyxia from copious sanguineous secretion in164 EEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. the bronchi or from rnpid extension of the infiltrntion, Tartar-emeiic nfforcls no relief unless it produces vomiting or diarrhoea. Calomel is not advisable, nor has digitalis produced good results in Skoda's hands. Opium is useful as a palliative in the case of those patients who bear it well, and in them it may be continued for some length of time. Quinine is bene- ficial in pneumonia associated with intermittent fever, and also in dyspnoea, where the action of the heart is irregular, rapid, and ineffectual, owing to exhaustion of the nerve-power. Inhalation of ether or chloro- form aflbrds momentary relief. Warm external applications give relief to many pneumonic patients, but if there is great fever and oppression they cause distress. Cold applications are only useful in traumatic pneumonia. Cold applied to the head and cold sponging is very beneficial. Nitre and similar salts have no influence over pneumonia. It does not appear that the kind of treatment, notably the employment or omission of venesection, has any influence over consecutive diseases, especially tuberculosis. Brian, R.—On the Diagnosis and Nature of certain Chronic Pulmonary Affections. Gaz. Hebd., ii, 12, 1859; 22, 24, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 169. Brian maintains that all cretaceous deposits in the lungs are not the result of tubercle, but may result from chronic inflammatory action. Dis- ease of this kind (chronic vesicular pneumonia) may very closely resemble phthisis, but is much more likely to terminate favorably. Emaciation in the non-tuberculous disease is limited to the walls of the chest; the breathing is less impeded, the expectoration is more raucous, and hsemo- ptysis is much rarer. The lower as well as the upper part of the lung may be affected, and cavities may form. The progress is steady, but very chronic. Three cases in the author's experience have terminated fatally, seven have completely recovered, nine materially improved, and three have remained stationary. ScURANT, J. M.—On Clear Percussion Sound, and its relation to Tym- panitic. Nederl. Tijdschr., p. 657, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 326. A sound appears clear when it gives the impression of being of uniform composition ; it may proceed from a simple or a composite sounding body. A simple vibrating mass of air gives a tone, and this is always clear; also a combination of several tones always sounds clear. A clang (klang) is the entire impression made by a vibrating medium in union with a stratum of air, and this is always clear. A sound which gives no tone is a murmur. A murmur can also be simple or compound, and Savart's researches show that most murmurs contain weak tones in different proportions. A clang (klang) is deficient in a positive basal tone. Often, however, one perceives together with the murmur the accom- panying tone, and then the murmur is rendered clear (e. g. the normal lung sound). A murmur is tympanitic when it is attended by a clnJig; if this predominates over the murmur, the tympanitic sound is at the same time clear, in the contrary case the sound is dull tympanitic. Non- tympanitic, according to Skoda, is only the negation of the clang-hke quality, and consequently coincides with the idea of murmur. As a rule, such a murmur is certainly also dull, but may be also clear.RES-PIRATORY SYSTEJr. 165 ScHiiANT, J. M.—On Skoda s doctrine of Consonance. Nedeil. Tijdsclir., p. 481, 1863. Schmidt's Jalu-b., vol 118, p. 327. Schrant divides consonance into—(i) Simple ringing consonance. This shows the presence of cavities with firm walls ; it gets the tubal character when it is produced in a bronchus ; if it meets with rales, they also be- come consonating or ringing. (2) Nasal consonance. This indicates sound- ing spaces with firm walls, and of more or less tubular shape (segophony). In'it the three properties of being strengthened, of a more distinct articu- lation, and of the nasal tone, must be distinguished; the first two are explicable by the mere conduction of sound in tubes, the third is only to be explained by consonance. (3) Amphoric, and (4) metallic consonance. They often occur together, and indicate free-sonuding spaces with firm walls ; the latter proceeds from smaller, the former from larger, cavities with smooth spherical walls. In very small cavities the metallic clang may be generated only by percussion, and not by consonance. (5) Vocal con- sonance. The respiratory mnrmur presents not unfrequently modifications which resemble the sound of certain vowels. That which suggests the idea of the vowel i usually proceeds from a narrower tube than that which suggests the idea of a or u. Hyde Salter, M.D., F.R.S.—Clinical Lecture on Pleurisy. Brit. Med. Jour., July nth, i8th. Salter considers that serous inflammations, even of catai'rhal origin, arise from blood-poisoning. According to his experience, segophony depends on the presence of a certain quantity of fluid, the symptom ceasing when the amount of fluid is very large. Its persistence after good vesicular breathing has returned, as in one of his cases, Salter explains by supposing that a gelatinous coating of fibrine existing where it is heard is suflicient for its production. He does not believe that sego- phony is generated at the upper margin of the efi'used fluid. Several points are indicated as aids to determine whether in a given case the pain is the result of pleurisy, or rheumatism. The principal are that in rheu- matism the pain may be very severe and the pulse unaff"ected; the pain is produced by pressure upon as well as between the ribs, and by the movement of muscles which cannot affect the pleura. Percussion dulness and diminished vocal fremitus are very slow in disappearing. To give rest, to allay pain, and to promote vital power, are the indications to be fulfilled in the treatment. BowDiTcii, H. J., M.D.—Paracentesis Thoracis. Amer. Quart. Journ. of the Med. Sc., Jan., 1863. Bowditch gives a resume of his experience for twelve years, containing the results of 160 operations on eighty-five persons. He has never seen the least permanent evil resulting from any operation,and only the slightest temporary difficulties, such as pain, slight dyspnoea, stricture, or cough, &c. This shows the innocuousness of the operation by means of the exploring trocar and suction-pump as suggested by Dr. Wyman. Frequency of the operation.—One lady was tapped nine times during eight and a half months ; commencing when she was four and a half months pregnant, and in whom the orthopncea was several times so great that death would have166 iiEPORT ON phactical medicine. supervened witliin twenty-four hours if the operation liad not been per- formed. She is now tolerably well, but with a contracted chest. In striking contrast witii this case, as it regards the frequency of the operation, while resembling it in the number of times it was performed, was the unique case of an elderly man, very recently under my care, and in which I tapped eight times in six weeks. The patient himself, a physician, earnestly and solemnly demanded the operation as a mere means of relief to intense distress. Cases in which the patients recovered wholly. —Twenty-nine out of the seventy-five patients got wholly well, apparently in consequence chiefly of the operation. The operation was performed gene- rally when severe symptoms were manifest, and Bowditch was called in consultation. In a few a great quantity of fluid was recognised by the physical signs alone, the rational having been slight; but as the disease was chronic, an operation was deemed necessary. In all these cases the operations seemed the first step towards a cure. The character of the Jluid, and its influence on the prognosis.—In twenty-six out of the seventy- five, serum was found, and twenty-one of these patients got wholly well. If after the first operation the fluid became purulent, an almost certain fatal prognosis should be made. Six such cases occurred. Four of the patients died, two were lost sight of, but when last seen were faihug. Pus was found at the first operation in twenty-four cases. Once it was of the consistence of honey, but was easily drawn through the exploring tube. Seven of these patients recovered wholly, seven died; nine were relieved one or many times, but they had either a long and tedious illness, termi- nating usually in phthisis, or a fistulous opening, or a still doubtful result. A sanguinolent fluid at the first puncture (and by that I mean a dark-red, thin fluid, evidently stained with blood, though not coagulating) I con- sider almost certainly fatal, and a consequence of some malignant disease of the lung or pleura. There were seven of such cases. In six the patients died. In one there was a doubtful result, but apparently fatal tendencies were commencing. If the fluid is found sanguinolent at the second or any subsequent puncture, Bowditch deems it of comparatively little importance to the prognosis. A mixture of hloodij purulent fluid at the first operation is usually fatal. Three cases, all fatal, occurred. A fetid, gangrenous fluid is very rare, only one case having occurred, and that fatal; but in this case infinite relief from horrible orthopnoca was ob- tained, and it never returned, though the patient sunk and died in a few days. Gangrenous pleura was found. Bowditch has operated once in pneumo-hydrothorax with temporary relief and comparative ease for several days. To theoretical objections against such a proceeding, he re- plies that as the operation can do no harm, and may give much relief, it is advisable in any case where the dyspnoea may be so great as to require it. Cases tvhere no fluid is obtained.—These, seven in number, occurred mostly in the earlier operations, and the failure was often owing, no doubt, to the cautious and slow manner with which the trocar was plunged between the ribs, carrying thus the false membrane of the pleura costalis before the instrument instead of piercing it. At other times, from an error of diagnosis, the operation was done, when instead of a fluid there was simply an unexpanded lung and thick false membranes on the pleura, causing as much dulness on percussion and absence of respirationEESPIEATOKY SYSTEM. 167 as a fluid would have done. The differential diagnosis of the two was not at first quite so easy as it is now. Inspection is usually the test between the two conditions ; the intercostals being distinct and depressed when a membrane exists, but very indistinct and level with the ribs, or possibly prominent, when a fluid occupies the chest. Once an immense tumour occupied and uniformly distended one pleural cavity, and in its course presented all the phenomena, natural and physical, of simple pleurisy. Bowditch tapped three times, viz., at the back, side, and front, at the same visit. No evil followed. With respect to Trousseau's state- ment, that pleurisy of the right side is often or always tuberculous. Bow- ditch finds that in twenty-five cases fourteen were of the right side and eleven of the left. Of the former, only one person is mentioned as having tubercles, and in that the pleurisy was cured and the pulmonary symp- toms mitigated. Of these same fourteen persons tapped in the right side 28-57 P^"" '54'28 per cent, were cured, and 7*14 per cent, re- mained doubtful. Whereas of the eleven cases tapped on the left side, 45-45 per cent, died, 36*36 got well, and i8-i8 were doubtful. In other words, twice as many have got well from tapping the right side as the left, and only half as many have had doubtful results from operations on the right side as in those where the left side has been tapped. Bowditch's experience, therefore, is opposed to Trousseau's. When shall toe operate ? —Experience teaches us to operate in every case, however recent or chronic may be the attack, provided there is permanent or occasional dyspnoea of a severe character, evidently due to the fluid. There is, of course, more hope of doing good where the disease has not been of too long duration, is uncomplicated with phthisis or any other disease, and where, moreover, the amount of fluid seems directly the cause of the trouble. Bowditch deems it best to operate in amj, even in latent cases, where the pleural cavity gets full of fluid, and, if after a reasonable amount of treatment, the fluid does not diminish. Where shall we operate The point originally chosen by Drs. Wyman and Bowditch, viz., in a line let fall from the lower angle of the scapula, and between the ninth and tenth ribs, seems the most appropriate point at which to make a puncture. Bowditch has, however, tapped under the axilla or in the breast, when the case seemed to require it. In selecting the precise intercostal space on the back, Bowditch usually chooses one about an inch and a half higher than the line on a level with the lowest point at which respiratory murmur can be heard in the healthy lung of the other side. Bowditch never waits until pointing commences, for then he is sure that pus will be found. If pointing without opening has commenced he does not necessarily tap in that place, as recommended by the older surgeons, but seeks the most de- pending point in the chest. While thus desiring to operate before a local distension shows itself, he dislikes or refuses to tap where there is con- traction of the intercostal muscles; and he feels certain of getting fluid only where there is distension or flattening of the same. As to the objec- tions to the operation, viz., that "we may puncture the lung;" "we may let air into the pleura ;" " we may by our strong suction injure the lung "the instrument often fails to operate;" "the connecting tube between the pump and the trocar collapses, and thus checks the flow of liquid;" " the liquid may be too thick, and cannot be drawn through the smallheport on piuctical medicink. 1G8 canula;" we may excite inflammation of the pleura ;" " the operation is useless, because non-tubercular cases will get well without, tubercular will die in spite of it;" to all these Bowditch thinks it suHicieiit to reply that, with the experience he has had, they are simply absurd. Let any man have good instruments and manage them skilfully on proper cases, and he will agree to the truth of his statements. The operation is imperfect, it cannot cure all, but it has relieved many, and in a few instances has been the sole means of saving life. On the other hand, Bowditch believes tliat some have died for the want of it. In the earlier years of his practice he had seen men die with sudden dyspncca, or after months of ob- scure disease, with one pleural cavity filled with serum, and not a particle of other disease ; and, finally, he has seen tubercular phthisis follow after months of debility, from what was simple pleurisy at first. Dr. Wyman's instrument and method exactly supplied a want Bowditch had long felt, and now, with bis experience of their efficiency and safety, Bow- ditch affirms that he is as ready to puncture the chest as to draw a tooth or to vaccinate a child. BiERMER.—On Pneumothorax. Scliweiz. Ztschr., ii, p. loi, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. 179. Biermer states that the presence of vocal fremitus is not inconsistent with the existence of pneumothorax. Cardiac murmurs are most likely to be heard when the disease is on the left side, when the quantity of air effused is large, and the pericardium is surrounded with an air-filled space capable of resonance. Biermer believes that pneumothorax may occur without per- foration of the lung, probably from the decomposition of an empyema. The lung in such a case may be perforated from without. In one case he mentions pneumothorax resulted from the breaking up of an hseraorrhagic congestion of the lung in a typhus patient. In this instance the pitch of the metallic sound was higher in the sitting than in the lying position, contrary to what he had previously observed in other cases, {v. Schmidt's •Jahrb.,' vol. 119, p. 35). He accounts for this by remarking that in pyopneumothorax the long axis of the effusion is parallel to that of the body, so that in the horizontal position it is longer than in the vertical. Merbach., Varges' Ztschr., ii, p. 16, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, P- 47- Records two cases of pneumothorax, in which the pitch of the metallic sound was very clearly observed to vary according to the position of the patient, being materially higher when the affected side was uppermost, than in the supine position. With regard to the size of the sounding cavity necessary to produce a metallic tone, Merbach finds that a diameter of four centimetres (one and a half inch) is sufficient. Little, W. S.—Case of Pneumothorax without Perforation, rapidly con- secutive on Simple Hyperacute Pleurisy. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sc., Nov., 1863. The patient, Eet. 22, previously in robust health, without any predispo- sition to pulmonary or any other disease, was attacked with severe pleuritis, and died in five days. There was universal exudation of lymphDIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1G9 over the whole serous surface, with about 38 oz. of serous effusion. The right side was enhirged, the mediastinum remarkably displaced, and the intercostal spaces protruded. The lungM-as completely flattened, but was perfectly sound and capable of reinflation. It did not contain a single tubercle, or anything morbid. Little considers it fully proved by his case that in certain very rare cases the pleura is capable of taking on a peculiar morbid action, whereby air is copiously secreted into the pleural sac. Rosenthal, M.—On Pneumothorax. Wiener Med. Halle, 4, 5, 8, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 170. Among 4140 patients, Rosenthal had 464 phthisical, and of these 7 (3 males and 4 females) presented the signs of pneumothora.x. The disease was in five on the left side. Sk of the seven terminated fatally. In one case the oesophagus was perforated opposite the sixth dorsal vertebra ; the edges of the opening were turned outwards, giving it a funnel shape, and in this opening there was found a small flat piece of bone ; the right pleura con- tained a large amount of chocolate-coloured effusion. DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Flint, A., M.D.—Clinical Report on Hydro-peritoneum, based on an Analysis of Forty-six Cases. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., April, . 1863. The spleen was found to be enlarged in only a small proportion of cases, and in one it was small and wrinkled. Disease of the heart did not appear to have much causative relation to the existing cirrhosis of the liver. Thus, of thirty-two cases in which the condition of the heart was noted, as determined either by autopsical examination or by physical signs, in five cases only were there lesions involving enlargement of this organ. In six out of eleven cases the kidneys were manifestly diseased; in all of these but one they were enlarged and granular. It is, however, by no means clear whether the hepatic disease originates the renal, or vice versd, or whether both have some common cause. Of twenty fatal cases, intemperance in drinking was acknowledged in seventeen. Of twenty non-fatal cases, intemperance was acknowledged in twelve. In two cases only was it certain that the patients were not in the habit of drinking, one of them being a child twelve years old. In fifteen cases, where the point was particularly mentioned in the history, it appeared that the patient had been in the habit of drinking spirits undiluted on an empty stomach. In eighteen cases, where the length of time is noted during which the habit of spirit-drinking had existed, it was found to vary from eight or several years to twenty-five. The supervention of dropsy in ten out of twenty-two cases followed on more or less numerous attacks of intermittent fever. Taking albuminuria as a diagnostic criterion of disease of the kidneys, the latter very rarely existed with hydro-peritoneum, a result which is contrary to that derived from autopsical examination as above stated. In the great majority of cases the disease occurred between twenty and fifty years of age, and in most between thirty and forty. Under the head of symptomatology, it is mentioned that there is an absence of pain, soreness, and tenderness, and of tension of the abdominalREPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 170 walls from tonic rigidity of the muscles. 'Die dropsical effusion takes place rapidly, M'liicli seems to show that other causes are in operation in the production of this result hesides the hepatic obstruction, which would not increase suddenly. Flint does not consider that the size of the liver and spleen can be accurately ascertained merely by percussion. Palpation immediately after tapping aflbrds most information, llsematemesis oc- curred in SIX cases, diarrhoea in eight; both appeared to have an unfavor- able influence. It was found that in about one half the cases in which hydro-peritoneum and oedema of the lower limbs coexist, the latter pre- cedes the former; and that when this is found to be so, it is not to he in- ferred that the dropsy is associated with renal or cardiac disease. He ascribes the ojdcma to pressure of a small amount of effusion on the iliac veins. Icterus was a rare symptom ; it was observed only in seven of the forty-six cases. Anaemia, more or less marked, existed in the great majority of cases. As to the therapeutic management of hydro-peritoneum, the first object being generally to effect the removal or diminution of the peritoneal effusion, cautious trial may be made of diuretics and hydra- gogue cathartics. If these means do not prove promptly efficacious (as they will very rarely do), it is useless to persist in the foruier and in- jurious to continue the latter (hydragogues). Tapping should be resorted to as soon as the abdomen becomes distended, and may be repeated as often as the effusion accumulates sufficiently to produce distension. If the system be not much debilitated, all alcoholic beverages are to be in- terdicted ; and if these seem to be required, or the patient have not sufficient resolution to forego their use, wine and malt liquors should be substituted for spirit. If spirit must be taken, it should be taken diluted, and not on an empty stomach. Tonic remedies (as iron and quinine) are to be prescribed. A nutritious diet is important, and the quantity of liquid ingested should be as much restricted as practicable, the object being to render the blood rich in quality without increase of quantity, avoiding ansemia and hydrajmia. In general terms, the hygienic con- ditions should be as good as possible. If diarrhoea exist, it may be re- lieved by appropriate remedies, in some cases, at least, without injury, if not with benefit. It is dangerous to resort to scarifications to relieve excessive oedema of the genital organs. As to the course and termination, of the forty-six cases which have been analysed, twenty-four are known to have ended fatally. Of the twenty-two non-fatal cases, in eight there had been no improvement when the patients were last heard of. Doubt- less in most, if not all these cases, the termination was fatal. In four cases, when the patients were last heard of, more or less improvement had taken place, but the dropsical affection continued. In ten cases, the dropsy having disappeared or been removed by tapping, the patients were free from the affection when last seen or heard from. The period during which it is known that they continued exempt from dropsy varies from a few weeks to eighteen months. Only one case out of the whole number appears to have actually recovered. The duration of the disease, dating from the commencement of the dropsy, in the fatal cases, varied from six weeks to seventeen months. The average duration in sixteen cases is about five months. Flint concludes that the prognosis is unfavorable in proportion as we have reason to believe that the dropsy is exclusively171 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. due to irremediable lesioa of the liver. He thinks that more success will be attained by resorting early to tapping, and relying more on tonic medi- cation, than by confining treatment to the use of diuretics and hydragogue cathartics. Keller, k.—On CEsojihat/ostenosis. Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., viii, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 35. Keller during the course of five years met with thirty-five cases of this condition in children from the age of six months to fourteen years; most of them were from two to four years old. Of this number, twenty-three were cured, three improved, four remained under treatment, five died. The cause of the stenosis was in all the swallowing of solution of caustic potash. The duration of the treatment varied from three months to a year and a half. Bougies were used to dilate the stricture as it became developed. A circumstance which may cause trouble is the swallowing of morsels too large to pass the stricture, such as bits of meat or stones of fruit. One case of death occurred from a cherry-stone getting into this position. Meissner, H. — Recent Contribidions to our Knowledge of Trichina Disease. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 45. Meissner alludes to several epidemic appearances of this disorder. Thefirst which e-xcited general attention occurred atPlanen, where twenty-five to thirty persons were attacked, four out of sixteen treated by Boliler andKonigs- dorfFer were seriously ill, and one died with prodigious dropsy and obstinate diarrhoea. In three patients a portion of muscle taken from the arm was found to contain living trichinse. The epidemic witnessed by Sendler in Magdeburg, which prevailed during five summers (1858—1862), and afiected3oo persons, is believed to have been of this kind {v. 'Year-book,' 1863, p. 167). A third, less extensive, but very grave outbreak, was observed by Simon and Herbst at Calbe. It affected over thirty-eight persons residing in four contiguous streets. Eight of these died. In one of the fatal cases numberless trichinse were discovered on dissection, and it was found on inquiry that all the inhabitants of this district obtained their supply of meat from the same butcher. lie denied ever killing any diseased cattle, but fell sick himself with his wife and daughter of the same disease, the wife dying of it. Of the thirty-eight, all but two had eaten pork in one form or other, and it is very possible that it was not thoroughly cooked. The severity of the disorder depends partly on the number of trichinae swallowed, partly on the health and capacity of resist- ance of the individual, and on other causes which may hinder or promote the development and migration of the parasites. Apart from differences thus occasioned, the symptoms, except in slight cases, are very uniform, indeed sufficiently so to enable a diagnosis to be made from them alone. The disease begins constantly with catarrhal irritation of the gastro-intes- tinal mucous membrane, with subtyphoid phenomena, a feeling of general illness, dulness, loss of appetite, nausea, and constipation. After a few days ccdematous swelling of the face suddenly comes on, with the feeling of tension, without notable redness, heat, or pain of the skin. There is now pyrexia, with thirst, heat, nocturnal restlessness, general pains in the limbs, unusual oppression of the chest, especially at the epigastrium,llEPOET OX PRACTICAL JIEDTCINK. 172 which Bomotimes iucrenses paroxymally for some hours to n deathly anguish, with occasionnl syncope and intermittent weak pulse. In many, especially in grave cases, violent sweating occurs, with an eruption of miliaria. Consciousness is unimpaired, and only sometimes is there slight nocturnal delirium. After from three to five days the swelling of the face mostly subsides, while oedema of the limbs appears, especially of the lower. At the same time there comes on remarkable painfulness and stiffness of the back and limbs, so tliat they are kept motionless in a semi- flexed position, and resent even the slightest touch of the skin. The mus- cles are contracted, swollen, hard, and in a condition similar to that of rigor mortis. In some instances the patients were completely paralysed, and could not even turn or raise themselves in bed; some even could not carry food to their mouth. A not uncommon and early symptom was hoarse- ness or loss of voice, which reminds one of the statements of Ilenle, BischofF, and Virchow, as to the very abundant development of trichinae ill the small muscles of the larynx. Sometimes dysphagia was observed, or strabismus, or incomplete mobility of the eye. Recovery in most cases ensued very gradually after some weeks, the symptoms slowly subsiding. Diarrhoea and sweating continue, however, for a length of time; and numerous pustules break out on the skin, especially of the back, and change into small, very painful ulcers, or in exceptional cases are asso- ciated with gangrenous spots. Desquamation of the skin, falling off of the nails, glandular inflammations, and subcutaneous abscesses, are observed in some instances. Moderate muscular pains and extraordinary emacia- tion of the limbs remain often for weeks after recovery, and may, per- haps, be regarded as the signs of a chronic state of the disorder. If the trichinae in the muscles are not yet enclosed in chalky capsules, it is pro- bable that there are still mature individuals in the intestines, which will daily make their way outwards. It is, therefore, of the first importance to clear out the intestines by active purgation. Kuchenmeister recom- mends calomel and jalap, followed the next day by jalap with poM'der of male fern. For the purpose of destroying the trichinae on their way to the muscles, Kuchenmeister and others recommend 01. Terebinth., and Friedreich picronitrate of potash, which has an intensely bitter taste, and stains all the tissues, except the nervous centres, yellow. Its dose is ^ grains ter die. Friedreich asserts that it produced rapid amelioration in his patients, but this seems to require confirmation. Trichinae appear to be very tenacious of life, having been found in putrid and in frozen meat, as well as in salt and smoked. Unless, therefore, great care is taken that pork, in all its varieties, is thoroughly cooked, infection may easily occur. Kuchenmeister and Leuekart have performed numerous experiments with animals to determine the effect of different modes of preparation on tri- chinae contained in pork. They find (i) that smoked sausages contain a very considerable number of living trichinae, though not so many as to cause any grave disease in the animals experimented on. (2) Most of the trichinae are destroyed when ham is properly prepared, i. e. laid in brine for two days, and then smoked for three, but a small number of the parasites still remain capable, if the ham is eaten raw, of developing other individuals. (3) Pork which has been salted for at least ten weeks, whether smoked or not, is quite harmless.DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Meissner.—Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 119, p. 187. Gives a second report on the same subject. He notices several limited epidemics, in some of which the phenomena were very much like those of influenzal catarrh. The actual presence of the trichinae was not ascer- tained in any of them, but the resemblance of the symptoms to those produced by undoubted trichincc disease was very close. The most ex- tensive of these outbreaks seems to have been one at Blankenburg, of which an account is given by Scholz (v. -'Deutsche Klinik,' 49, ,50, 51, 1862). He terms it epidemic gastro-rheumatic fever, with acute oedema of the subcutaneous and muscular areolar tissue. It seems to have lasted from 1859 to 1862, and to liave affected 278 soldiers, without reckoning patients "in civil life. Many of the cases seem to have been but slight; in 130 the duration of the disease was only i to 3 days; in 42 it was not above i week; in 33 not above 2 weeks ; in 16 not above 3 weeks ; in 14 it did not exceed 4; in 13, 5 weeks; in 12, 6 weeks ; in 4, 7 weeks; in 10, 10 weeks; and in 4 it varied between 71 and 94 days. The above dates refer to the discharge of the patients from the hospital, but weeks elapsed in the majority before they recovered their former strength. The first cases of an epidemic were always the severest, and the two fatal cases which occurred belonged to the same period. Most of the cases happened during the first six months of the year; only in the year 18^9 were any met with in the second half. This is explained by the circumstance that pigs are killed only in the latter part of the winter (after Christmas) and in the spring. The disease chiefly affected persons in early and middle life; those above the age of fifty-five were exempt, as well as those below the age of twelve. Many more men were attacked than women, and with few exceptions the patients belonged to the lower classes. For the most part the disease set in suddenly with heat and sweating, succeeding to a smart rigor; more rarely it com- menced gradually with dyspepsia, loss of appetite, vomiting, diarrhoea, and rheumatic pains, followed by fever and swelling of the face. The course varied with the intensity of the disease. The abortive form, where the duration did not exceed a week, commenced suddenly with pain and heat of the head, redness of the face and eyes, swelling around the latter, pains in the neck and the limbs, coated tongue, sometimes vomiting, usually constipation, and immoderate lassitude and tendency to sweating. In cases of medium severity (lasting one or two weeks), instead of improvement occurring on the third day, the fever and swelling of the face increased, the tongue became more coated, and the dragging pains in different muscles became more urgent. In many instances there occurred cedematous swelling of the arms and legs, as well as the characteristic muscular contractures. The fever, however, did not run high, declined on the fifth, seventh, or ninth day, and at the same time the other morbid phenomena disappeared rapidly, the tendency to sweat- ing and the muscular weakness continuing some time longer. In the graver cases the disease mostly set in with marked rigor, but sometimes also in an insidious manner, with a gradual increase of originally obscure symptoms. The patients lay almost always motionless, with swollen face their arms flexed and swelled, their legs also swollen, but extended ; they complained of violent pains in the forehead, in the arms and legs, some-174 REPOllT OX PRACTICAL MEDICINE, times also in the back, which were so severe that they often uttered loud cries; the month could be but little opened, and the arms could not be extended without pain. All the patients during the first weeks of the disease were completely deprived of sleep, but only the two fatal cases had delirium. The gastric symptoms were always well marked, the tongue was white, there was anorexia, much thirst, mostly constipation, rarely any diarrhoea, no abdominal pains or swelling. I'ever ran high, tlie pulse was loo to 120. After fourteen days the heat and the frequency of the pulse diminished, sometimes with critical phenomena, but it was always remarkably long, often three or four months, before the strength was restored. Of all the symptoms, oedema of the subcutaneous areolar tissue and of the muscular was the most prominent, sliowing itself first around the eyes, and producing painful tension and difficulty of moving the muscles. From the muscles of the eyes being affected, vision was impaired, especially as respects looking upwards; from affection of the masseters, opening the mouth was painful; the tongue was moved M-ith difficulty; and at the same time, or soon after, also the muscles in other parts of the body, especially in the arms and legs, swelled and became very tender on pressure. In the slightest cases the oedema often appeared only after the disease had passed off and the power of progression was restored; in the graver cases it attained sometimes to such a pitch that actual fissures of the skin were formed, from which an albuminous watery fluid escaped, and which left numerous transverse silvery-looking cicatrices. In no instance was albumen detected in the urine. The rheumatic pains and the extraordinary weariness, doubtless, depended on oedema of the muscles, occasioned, as may reasonably be supposed, by the trichinte. The amount of fever and of acceleration of the pulse varied much in different cases. During reconvalescence the high evening temperature and pulse-rate was remarkable, which appeared to delay considerably the complete recovery of strength. The skin, except during the first days of fever, was very pale, chlorotic, in one fatal case livid and icteric, in another of a marked lemon-yellow colour. It was worthy of remark, especially in the summer of 1859, how great was the tendency to ex- hausting sweats, which were often cold, and occurred at night, in spite of the patients being kept cool. Various cutaneous affections ensued, as herpes, small furuncles, and occasionally even carbuncles of some size. Spaneemia, even in the slightest cases, and after the disease had continued only a short time, became very apparent, and chlorotic murmurs were heard in the vessels of the neck. The respiratory organs were only affected in individual cases ; some who had suspicious symptoms of tuberculosis suffered from bronchitis and severe cough. The morbid changes found on examination of the two fatal cases consisted of extreme serous infiltration of the subcutaneous and muscular areolar tissue (the serum pouring out in quantity when an incision was made into the substance of the limbs), of copious serous accumulations in the pericardium and pleura, of pulmonary oedema and hypostasis. The digestive organs were healthy, except that there was serous swelling of their mucous membranes. The kidneys were healthy, and the spleen, except in one instance. The blood was everywhere uncoagulated, and thinly fluid. [Although in this epidemic it is not absolutely proved175 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. that tricliinsc 'were the cause of the disorder, yet, as Meissncr regards it as almost certain, it seems -worthy of consideration whether some obscure quasi-catarrho-rheumatic affections in our own country may not liave a similar origin.—Ed.] In a communication from Prof. Zenker C'Ber. d. Ges. f. Natur. u. Heilkunde in Dresden,' 1861—1862, p. 49) it is stated that three persons—a husband, wife, and niece—living together, were suddenly attacked with pain of all the muscles, paralysis, and other symptoms of trichinfe disease. The parasites were detected in some recently killed pork of which they had partaken, and also in their stools. Purging was adopted with advantage. The earlier this measure is put in force the better, but it results from various experiments with rabbits that it may be beneficial as late as the eleventh week. Fiedler ('Virchow's Arch.,'p. 573, 1863) states that he has repeated Friedreich's experiments with picro-nitrate of potash on trichinised rabbits, but has arrived at contrary results. He finds that the drug has no effect what- ever on the parasites, whether they are in the intestines or in the muscles; that it does not impede the migration of the embryos or arrest their development. In fact, it killed, if given in large doses, as nine or ten grains, the rabbits instead of the trichinse. Ogle, J. D., M.D.—Observations on the Treatment of Tcenia, especially hy the use of the Oil of Male Fern. Brit. Med. J., March 14th. Ogle gives twentj'-four cases in which this drug was at any rate most useful in causing the death and expulsion of long lengths of the worm, extending in two instances to twenty-four and thirty yards. The ages of the patients varied from three and a half to fifty-seven years. It does not appear that the head was found in any case. In most cases the action of the remedy upon the patient was neither troublesome or dis- agreeable. Ogle has used other vermicides, as Kameela, Kousso, Kottleria tinctoria, and Santonine, but none have given such good results as male fern. Three cases are mentioned in which it evidently was more efficient than turpentine. Laval.—On the Influence of Intestinal Worms on the course of Malarious Fever. Gaz. d'Orient, 7th Oct., 1858. Schmidt's Jahrbuch, vol. 119, p. 54. Laval states—(i) That intestinal worms only produce intermittent symptoms when the patient is under the influence of malaria. (2) They form a grave complication, (3) Quinine is not of decided efficacy until the worms have been expelled. The ascaris lumbricoides was the species present in Laval's cases. Santonine was given with good effects. Traube, L.—Deutsche Klinik, 6, 1863. Schmidt' s Jahrb., vol. 110. p. 88. ' ^' Affirms that colic pains are produced by the strong peristaltic action of portions of intestine situated above some obstructed part. The con- tractions come on periodically, and cause considerable tension of the wall of the bowel, which is unable to drive on its contents. Hence the pains.TtEPOllT OK I'llACTICAL MEDICINK, ]76 Donaldson, J.—Edin. Med. J., Dec, 186.3. States tlint he obtn'med, during the cholerii epidemic of 1861 a wonder- ful amount of success from the employment of cliloric ether with Spt. Ammon. Aromat. ana 5SS every twenty minutes. Hydrocyanic acid was added when the vomiting was more than usually severe, and solution of muriate of morphia when the alvine dejections were unusually great, or when there was unusual restlessness and inability to sleep after the collapsed stage was fairly passed. Tr. catechu was also used in some cases as an astringent. Of eighteen cases of true malignant cholera treated in the garrison hospital, six only died, and the remainder speedily recovered. Of several apparently hopeless cases in the 38th Regiment, not one died. A little brandy and water was given occasionally to relieve thirst, and sulphuric acid drink if desired. Trousseau.—Vertiyo Dijspeptica. Gaz. des Hop., 39, 1862. Schmidt's Jnhrb., vol. 117, p. 34. This affection is unusual before the age of fifty, and is preceded by dis- ordered digestion. It is not felt in a posture of repose, but comes on immediately as soon as the patient rises, or looks upwards, or turns round quickly, or looks at trellis work or narrow-striped carpets. It is not produced by straining or such movements as would cause congestion of the head. The giddiness is attended with nausea, but not with peripheral disorders of motion and sensation. In giddiness from cerebral affection there are signs of congestion of the head, sense of weight, lassitude, and formication in the extremities, without nausea and vomiting. Trousseau gives soda and magnesia in infus. quass. MiiLLER; Witt.—Cases of Gastric Fistula. Wurtemb. Corresp. Bl., xxxii, 27, 1862. Hygiea, xxiii. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 171. One patient was 38, the other 27 years old ; both were females. The first died, and nothing morbid was found in the stomach, except the per- foration, which was in the greater curvature. The other patient recovered. In her the gastric juice was of sp. gr. i'04, acid, and contained muriatic and lactic acids. The latter was the more abundant, and was found with every variety of diet. Blanciiet.—Jour, de Med. et de Chir. pratiq., Sept., 1863. Asserts that he has succeeded on several occasions in passing a sound down the oesophagus, through the pyloric orifice of the stomach, and some way into the small intestine. By this proceeding he has procured the speedy evacuation of foreign bodies, and has twice successfully managed an ob- stinate ileus with persistent vomiting. While the sound is in the intestinal canal Blanchet moves it quickly up and down, which probably excites energetic peristalsis, Renz.—Wurzb. Med. Ztschr., p. 374, 1862. Records the case of a nervous female, who, after eating strawberries or bilberries, had superficial inflammation of the mucous membrane of the tongue. Pears produced in her smart urticaria of both legs.DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 176* Demme, II.—On Glossifis, and its treatment. ScUw. Ztschr. f. Ileilk., ii, p. 7.3, 186.3. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. 29.5. Demnie distinguishes glossitis profunda from glossitis superficialis. The varieties of the latter are gl. catarrhal., gl. exanthem., gl. toxic, gl. croupos., and gl. diphtherica. These he treats but briefly. Gl. profunda has two varieties—gl. phlegmonodes (29 cases), and myo-glossitis (.3 cases). These two may again be arranged, according to different peculiarities, into («) suppurative gl.; (6) tuberculated gl., which is characterised by anae- mic necrosis of cell-growths ; (c) fibrous gl., producing new formation of fibrous tissue, so-called macroglossia; (^) gummatous, or syphilitic gl., which probably commences in the proper muscular substance, and usually appears in the middle of the tongue ; (e) gangrenous gl., ■which only occurs in similar states of angina, or as anthrax iu cases of malignant pustule. After describing the symptoms, which are more or less acute, he states the mortality of his thirty-two cases. Two perished from oedema of the glottis and pyaemia; one from gangrene; twenty-two cases re- covered ; the remsiinder were only improved. In the matter of treatment, Demme lays stress on energetic and early antiphlogistic measures, consist- ing either in the application of ice to the tongue or to the submaxillary region, or in detraction of blood. For the latter purpose leeches may be applied uuder the jaw, or the tongue may be scarified. The incisions sliould be longitudinal, and made pretty deep, and the bleeding from them encouraged. Opening the ranine-veins is not advisable. Brushing the surface of the tongue over with strong tincture of iodine is of great value in all stages of the disease; it produces energetic contraction and indura- tion of the tumour, occasionally with formation of scabs or vesicles. Its action is most evident when fluctuation is already present; it causes reso- lution without any escape of pus. It is generally necessary to repeat the application daily. If there appears danger of oedema of the glottis, in- cisions must not be delayed. Internal treatment must be regulated in accordance with the general state of the system. Similar local treatment is requisite also in the chronic forms. Berger.—On the Treatment of Dysentery. Wien. IMed. Wchnschr., xiii, 22, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 48. In all cases which resist simple treatment, or where there are signs of advanced ulceration, Berger recommends the use of injections of nitrate of silver. He gives gr. vj—x, dissolved in 5iij of water, together with a few drops of tincture of opium three or four times in the twentj--four liours. The remedy is of no avail, he believes, if given in pills or solution by the mouth. In adynamic or septic dysentery, Berger thinks the above mode of treatment is still the most efficacious. The diet must be semi-fluid, consisting of barley and rice, jelly and broth, and rest in bed is essential. Nelson, T., M.D.—Medical residts of the recent Chinese Wars. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 186.3. With respect to dysentery, Nelson shows, from the returns, that in the years 1840-41-42, out of 15,470 men employed, there were 2102 cases, of which 188 died and 60 were invalided. In i8';7.58-59, out of 24,980 men employed, there occurred 2006 cases of dysentery, of whom 11*UKPOET ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE, I76i 606 were invalided nud 465 died. Ou the first occasion, venesection, leeching, and calomel in largo doses, or carried to salivation, was employed ; on the second, depiction was much less employed, and the free administra- tion of mercury was foreborne, wlnle ipecacuanha, as recommended by the Indian practitioners, was largely tried, as well as the older remedial agents. In presence of these facts, Nelson calls upon practitioners to decide whether the much-contemned practice of twenty years ago has not been superseded somewhat rashly, in consequence of its modified measure of success, for another, which, conforming to the quietism of the day, has brought about a series of results that in these times has no parallel. EwAiiT, J., M.D.—On Tropical Dysentery. Indian Annals of Med. Sc. No. 16, April, 1863. Brit, and For. Med.-Ciiir. Rev., July, 1863. With regard to the ipecacuanha treatment, Ewart recommends it in the congestive, exudative, and ulcerative stages of almost every form and type of acute dysentery, as well as in the acute attacks supervening upon chronic dysentery. Its advantages are—(i) its simplicity ; (2) its safety ; (3) its certainty, compared with any other method; (4) the promptitude with which the inflammation is stopped ; (5) the rapidity with wliich re- covery takes place by resolution, or by granulation and cicatrization ; (6) conservation of the constitutional powers; (7) abbreviation of the period required for convalescence ; (8) decrease in the frequency of chronic dysentery; (9) decrease in the frequency of abscess of the liver; (10) diminution of mortality to cases treated ; all of which are accomplished— (a) without local or general bloodletting, (6) without salivation, (c) without calomel and irritating purgatives, (d) without opium by the mouth. To the objections made against this treatment he replies that nausea is only temporary and evanescent; vomiting is an exceptional occurrence, and even when it does supervene it seldom lasts long. As much nourishment, therefore, as may be required to support the strength can be allowed in the intervals between the large doses of ipecacuanha. But what contributes more to the consei'vation of the patient's stamina and to the prevention of depression or asthenia, is the speedy cessation of the dysenteric process accomplished by the drug, followed by refreshing sleep, and the power of digesting and assimilating nourishing food. When uncontrollable sickness and vomiting succeed the employment of ipecacu- anha, it is more than probable that some serious complication exists, such—as (i) abscess of the liver, (2) unchecked aguish or malarious poison- ing. (3) irretrievable constitutional cachexia, (4) Addison's disease, (5) Bright's disease, (6) phthisis or tuoerculosis, (7) strumous disease of the mesenteric glands, (8) permanent enlargement of spleen or liver, (9) peritonitis, with or without perforation of the gut, (10) the existence of extensive sloughing. SECRETORY SYSTEM. Stokvxs.—On Urea as the cause of Urtemia. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. n8, p. 26. Nederl. Tijdschr., Sept., i860. Stokvis found that the introduction of urea into the stomach of rabbits and its injection into the veins of dogs produced no bad effects which could be ascribed to the urea. Similar experiments with carbonate of ammonia tended to show the correctness of French's view as to theSECEETORY SYSTEM. 17Gc> dependence of urfemic phenomena on tlie trnnsformatiou of urea into this agent. Other amraoniacal salts, as the muriate and oxalate, have the same eSect. It appears from other experiments that urea is not decomposed in the blood of healthy animals; Stokvis adopts Treitz's view, that this decomposition takes place in the intestinal canal, which is found, after extirpation of the kidneys, or in cases of renal degeneration, to contain large quantities of ammonia. Stokvis, B. J.—On Albuminuria. Nederl. Tijdschr. v. Geneesk., vi, July, i8(52. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. ii8, p. 38. By experiments on himself and on animals, Stokvis found that removal of chloride of sodium to a great extent from the food did not cause albuminuria. The only result was that the per-centage of chloride fell from I to -1.—Dilution of blood by the cautious injection of water in quantities varying from 2^ to 810 cc, both after bleeding and without it, did not produce albuminuria. There was only one case which formed an apparent exception, and in this blood was mingled with the urine, and the animal died in violent convulsions, showing that the pressure of blood in the vessels was increased. Introduction of fluid albumen into the stomachs of rabbits and dogs caused albuminuria ; in the first, on the third or fourth day after the commencement of this diet; in the second, on the sixth or seventh. Eating eight or ten raw eggs on an empty stomach did not induce albuminuria in Stokvis, nor in two other individuals. Injection of fluid or albumen into the veins produces albuminuria, which lasts a longer or shorter time, and which is sometimes attended with hrematuria. Ser-albumen, injected even in large quantities, did not pro- duce albuminuria. This difference Stokvis refers to a difference in the composition of the two principles, but on the nature of this difference, whether chemical or physical, he does not decide. The author concludes, from his researches, that albuminuria may exist without renal disease, and,, further, that it is not dependent on mere dilution of blood or deranged innervation. He considers that it probably depends on an altered quality of the albumen of the blood, such that it comes to resemble albumen with respect to its diffusion power in the kidneys. The following expe- riment is related in confirmation of this view. One dog had 130 cc. of urine, containing 079 per cent, of albumen, from a patient thus affected, injected (into his stomach?), and evacuated on the following day; o'4i per cent, of albumen with his urine, on the next day 0*40 per cent., on the third day only traces, and on the fourth day none. An experiment with a rabbit gave the same result. In another dog, who had 135 grammes of normal urine, mixed with ox-blood-serum in the proportion of i '59 per cent, injected, there was no trace of albumen in the urine. Peteoff, a.—On VrcEtnia. Virchow's Archiv, xxv, p. 91, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 3^. Petroff, from experiments on animals, arrives at the following results : (i) When the functions of the kidneys are interrupted, Amnion. Garb, is formed in the blood. (2) Injections of Amnion. Garb, into the blood produce phenomena which are quite similar to the urcemic. (3) The degree in which these appear, and their character, depend on the amountItEPOllT ON PllACnCAL MEDICINE. of ammonia in Ilje blood, and on the condition in wliich it exists in that Ihiid. He finds that the qnantity of ammonia in the blood and other fluids increases with the lapse of time after the removal of the kidneys, and especially that the quantity of free ammonia increases considerably. The amount of free ammonia at the end of forty-eight hours was nearly double the whole amount at the end of twenty-four hours. As the toxic cficcts were much more marked at the end of the longer period, PetrofT ascribes them to the presence of free ammonia in larger quantity. In- jections of ammonia in sound animals cause only transitory phenomena of irritative character, because the substance is quickly carried off by the kidneys. If injected into animals' veins whose kidneys have been extir- pated, it causes symptoms just like those of urseraic poisoning, especially convulsions and coma. Cameron, J. C, M.D.—On the Ti-eatment of Acute Hepatitis in its sup- imrative stages. Lancet, June 6th. Cameron protests against the doctrine that positive evidence of pointing shonld always be obtained before any attempt should be made to evacuate the pus artificially. He affirms, on the contrary, that when we have just grounds for believing that abscess of the liver exists, we ought not to lose a day in evacuating it by puncture, and that we are both justified and safe in endeavouring to hit upon it with a trocar when deep-seated, avoiding the gall-bladder and large veins. He has seen men die with denuded and carious ribs, worn out by fever and diarrhoea, while the surgeon has waited for weeks to see the abscess point. The following directions are given:—" When the operation has been decided upon, but there is no particular prominence in any region of the liver, but merely a general fulness of the side (and this, perhaps, only distinguishable by going to the foot of the bed, and comparing from thence the right and left out- lines of the trunk) a very careful examination may guide us as to the likely spot. "VVe should trace all the intercostal spaces, and, if any super- ficial oedema be found, the abscess may be expected under it, and close at hand. The slightest intercostal fulness should be noted, and the patient desired to breathe deepl}', while a finger is fixed with gentle pressure flat along the spot. If the breath be caught precisely under it on deep in- spiration, that is the spot for puncture ; and in the absence of local fulness, the place where the inspiration is most impeded must be our guide, with due attention to anatomical relations. It is remarkable how often one can determine the exact seat of the greatest pain in breathing, &c., within the size of half-a-crown or less. Three cases are related in illustration, which seem certainly to prove that deep puncturing of the liver may be performed wdthout injurious results, and even may apparently act as a discutient of existing inflammatory swelling. In one remarkable instance, after about two ounces of pus had escaped from the canula, which had passed "some inches" deep into the side, it unfortunately slipped out, and could not be replaced. No harm, however, ensued, and the man made a good recovery. BuDD, G., M.D., F.R.S.—On the influence of a long course of Nitric Acid in reducing the Enlargement of the Liver and Spleen that sometimes results from the Syphilitic Cachexy. Brit. Med. J., Sept. jth.CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. The enlnrgement which Bndcl refers to is that which has been latterly described as due to amyloid degeneration. The most striking examples of it are seen in the victims of scrofulous or syphilitic caries. Tliree cases are related in which ll^xx of dilute nitric acid were taken ter die for a period varying from fifteen to four months, without inducing ex- cessive acidity of the urine, or any inconvenience attributable to undue acidity of the stomach. Sarsaparilla, iron, or bark, were conjoined with the acid. The result of his experience leads Budd to conclude that when the liver and spleen have become diseased in the manner specified, in sequel to protracted syphilitic disease of the bones, nitric acid, long taken, has a remarkable influence in gradually eflfecting the removal of the morbid deposit to which these organs owe their increased size, restoring the organs to a more healthy condition, and improving the general health. The cases farther afford a strong presumption that nitric acid, taken earlier, would prevent the disease of the abdominal glands, which, when established, it tends to remedy. It is, however, essential that the disease of the bone, on which the enlargement of the liver and spleen is conse- quent, should be arrested; if this cannot be effected, the malady, though even then its course may be retarded, usually makes progress, and life is cut short by ren.nl disease, which very often accompanies that of the liver and spleen. Budd suggests that a long course of nitric acid may have influence in remedying and preventing glandular enlargements, chronic ulcers, and other forms of scrofulous disease. He is persuaded that in tuberculous disease of the lung nitro-muriatic acid, long taken, tends to prevent the further deposit of tubercle. CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. ITebra.—On ike Internal and External Application of Iodine Preparations in Diseases of the S/cin. AUg. Wien. Med. Ztg., vii, 3, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 26. Hebra insists that the internal administration of iodine is undesirable, because it only modifies cutaneous disease when it is given so as to pro- duce disorder of nutrition and ansemia of the skin, and that, as the general condition improves, the cutaneous disease^ reappears. Only in lupus does he consider iodine as of real utility, whether the affection be of syphiHtic or scrofulous character. The external use of iodine is, on the other hand, very beneficial. Hebra employes the tincture or a solution in glycerine', in chloasma and lentigo, and in lupus. In acne and sycosis he uses XIno-t! Sulph. lodidi. Ungt. Hydr. lod. and Hydr. Biniod. are beneficial "in psoriasis, lichen, and ecz. squamos. Piringer confides much in the local application of Tr. lodinii to prevent pitting of the face in smallpox. This he docs by arresting the development of the pustules and the swelling of the skin. If the patient is seen on the first day of the erup- tion, the whole face, including the eyelids, must be brushed over with Tr. lodinii ten times, making half-hour pauses between. The eruption is stopped, and no swelling of the face occurs. If treatment is commenced on the second day, twelve applications must be made, the first ei"-ht at half-hour intervals. Some swelling only occurs. If the patient ?s not seen till the third day of the eruption, fourteen to sixteen applications176/ heport on practical siedicine. must be made, the first at the same intervals. The swelling and the «nipliou are much checked, but a few pustules proceed to suppurate aud form cicatrices. Hebra.—On the Diagnosis of Eczema. Brit. Med. J., March 7th. Wiener Med. Wochenschr., Dec. 27th, 1862. Ilebra includes under the term eczema all disorders of the skin which are attended in citiier their earlier or Inter stages by the presence of vesicles and serous discharge. Eczema may begin with an eruption of vesicles, or of papules, or of both together. Tlie vesicles may speedily become purulent, and dry up into yellow crusts, which may fall off, leaving the condition known as eczema rubrum. Or after the development of vesicles the epidermis may be quite detached, leaving the rete mucosum denuded, and throwing out exudation. Again, when the exudation ceases, the parts pass into the_infiltrated, red, desquamating phase, known as eczema squamosum, or pityriasis rubra. In this way five or more differently named skin affections may all be referred to modifications of eczema. Hunt, T, —0« Diseases of the Skin developed in Schools, Workhouses, and Factories, from defective Hygiene. Brit. Med. Jour,, March 14th. These diseases are chiefly the common ringworm (porrigo scutulata) and scabies, and both show a tendency to pustulation. They often per- sist month after month, in spite of the most careful treatment and the most scrupulous attention to cleanliness and ventilation. In one particu- lar instance an endemic scabies persisted in a large girls' school for many months together in spite of cleanliness, ventilation, good drainage, nursing, and medical care; but nothing was of any permanent service until an entire change of diet was introduced, together with the daily exercise of the inmates away from the premises. The author states that these four causes atmospheric impurity, sameness of diet, insuflicient exercise, and contagion; all of them, trifling in degree, are yet capable of working together for evil, and may thus become powerful agents in the promotion and perpetuation of disease. Von Veiel's Report of SJdn Diseases observed at Canstatt for the years 1855 to 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 296. The whole number of cases treated in seven years was 887, of whom 740 were cured, 126 improved, 21 unimproved, and i died. Of eczema ehronicum there were 279 cases—42 universal, 237 partial. Only 5 of these were not benefited by the treatment. The most frequent cause is hereditary tendency, for in the parent or grandparent either the same skin disease had occurred (in 112 out of 279), or a similar eruption, in a8 cases, or a dyscrasic disease (as scrofula, gout, arthritis) allied to this form of eruption. Of the acquired diseases, syphilis, acute exanthemata, and itch, especially predispose to eczema, or cause it to be much xiiore obstinate. A peculiar circumstance is, that soiuetimes only the younger sisterg of a family are attacked, the elder ones remaining free, or the con- verse ; or that all the brothers alone are affected, while the sisters escape. Diseases which occurred simultaneously or alteruatingly with eczema176^ CTJTA>^EOUS SYSTEir. were asthma, acute rheumatism, furuncles, tonsillitis, pain in the head, chorea, htemoptysis. In four fifths of the cases the winter caused an aggravation of the disease, in one fifth the summer. In treatment, tar seems to have been used very frequently as an external application ; one very obstinate case of ecz. impetiginod. was cured by mercurial ointment rubbed in till it caused salivation. Internally iodine, mercury, iron, anti- mony, cod-liver oil were employed, arsenic but rarely.—Herpes chronicus was treated by mercurial inunction, counter-irritation, or cauterization. Pemphigus chronicus was best treated by a prolonged arsenical course, in the form of the Asiatic pills. It is considered to depend on a gouty dyscrasia from the excess sometimes of uric acid, sometimes of ammonia, sometimes of corabiniitions of chlorine in the urine. Impetigo is not classed with eczema; its pustules are said to be distinguished from the vesicles of the latter by containing fibrine, phosphates of oily matter, and carbonate of soda. It is almost always dependent on scrofulosis. Of Pityriasis, 19 cases were all cured, the treatment consisting in the use of potash soap, tar ointment, diluted solutions of caustic potash, or chloride of zinc. 0?psoriasis, there were 145 cases, of which 125 were cured, 19 improved, i proved refractory. Hereditary tendency had a marked in- fluence, as mostly the same eruption, more rarely an allied one, had existed in the parents or grandparents. Of acquired disease, haemor- rhoids and scrofula were those which had most causative effect. Whilst inherited tuberculosis disposes to very obstinate secondary and tertiary- syphilis, persons affected with hereditary psoriasis usually remain exempt from the latter. Arthritic psoriasis is sometimes attended with itching. Arsenic in non-specific psoriasis was the chief remedy, with tar ointment, vapour and potash baths externally. Ichthyosis (twelve cases) was always congenital, and in eight of these hereditary influence was apparent, mostly in the paternal hne. Shortly after birth, it has some resemblance to pemphigus. Vaccination seldom succeeds in the ichthyotic. Lichen is said to be hereditary," mostly very obstinate, and prone^to relapse; its treatment is the same as that of eczema. Prurigo is treate'd by the appli- cation of potash soap for many weeks, or by baths of Hyd. Bichl. to sali- vation. Mild thermae, as those of Schlangenbad, or Leukerbad, are useful, also alkaline baths and cold packings and washings. Chronic viiliaria occurred in six cases, five of which were cured, one dismissed on account of dropsy. The outbreak of the eruption is preceded by morning sweats, followed by extreme oppression and high fever. Before the first eruption has got well, a fresh one begins, with the same phenomena. The perspiration is highly acid; after the eruption, albumen is found in the urine. Quinine is to be given internally, and solution of caustic potash (gj ad Ib.j) to be rubbed in externally. Ephidrosis.—A. case of profuse sweatmg of the head and neck during eating was improved by the use of sage tea with acids, and rubbing with Spirit. Camphorse and vmegar. Acne rosacea is almost always hereditary, in the author's expe- rience it is rarely produced by chronic disorders of the stomach, and never by alcohohc excess, over-eating, or want of cleanliness. 'Acne tuberculata is treated by hard rubbing of the infiltrated parts with small brushes dipped in green soap, followed by lotions of Sodse Garb., borax Tr. Benzoes, sulphur suspended in spirit. Seborrhoea occurred in ei^-htKliPOllT OX 1'KA.CTICAL MEDICINE. cases; in one the whole scnlp wns covered with a brownish secrelion, like car-wnx. Si/cosis is described as dependent on inflnnmiation and suppu- ration of the hnir-foUicles, and not as a parasitic disease. Extraction of the hairs is necessary, and subsequently applications arc to be made of solutions of Ilydr. IMchl., Pot. lod., or spirit of tar, according as the skin is morbidly reddened, or indurated, or covered with scales. Fatty and oily substances are generally injurious, but glycerine and volk of egg arc beneficial, ylloj^ecia was never found to depend] on tlie develop- ment of fungi about the roots of the hairs. Its remote causes appeared to be—exanthemata in four cases, disorders of menstruation in three, erysi- pelas of the head in one. As remedies, various stimulating drugs are recommended—Sulph. lod. with Peruvian balsam, biniodide of mercury with Tr. Lyttae, frictions with green soap, vapour douches, &c. Of lupus, fifty-seven cases were treated. The disease consists in the development of degenerate yellowish cells, occupying the tissue of the cutis and the sub- jacent connective. In lupus non-exedens these cells simply cause an atrophy of this tissue ; in lupus hypertrophicus they form knotty growths, covered with crusts and scales; in lupus exulcerans they break up, and destroy the parts where they are deposited. Tiie use of caustics, espe- cially of chloride of zinc, is essential. The morbid tissue is converted by these into a black slough, which is thrown off in six or eight days, after which the cauterization is repeated. A spirituous solution of the chloride may be used for 1. superf and 1. exulccr.; but in 1. hypertroph. the solid form is better, or Potassa fusa. Lupus erythematosvs begins with red, somewhat infiltrated, and itching spots, which either form sebaceous crusts or give rise to a transformation of the epidermis into a liorny or shagreen-like structure. Its treatment is the same as that of lupus. Ephelides.—Two very marked cases were improved by friction of green soap, followed by a pomade consisting of camphor, solution of Pot. Garb., and milk of sulphur. Melasma is cured by vesicants which remove the epidermis. As to si/philitic skin diseases, the author says there are no characteristic signs, but the absence of itching, the swelling of the glands, the i-apid supervention, the colour, and the localization, as well as the history of infection make the diagnosis pretty certain. These eruptions are most obstinate when they occur in scrofulous, gouty, or tuberculous individuals. In ten cases out of fifty-two the constitutional disease appeared to have originated in an obstinate gonorrhoea rather than in a chancre. The time from the infection to the origin of the indurated chancre varied from twenty-four to thirty-six days ; thai from the appear- ance of the chancre to that of the syphilide from sixteen days to twenty- three years. Ulmek, L.—Wien. Med. Halle, iii, 5, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p.182. Records a case of pemphigus acutus, a disorder so rare that but one case has been met with among 300,000 cases of skin disease. It is cha- racterised by severe, almost typhous fever, a copious and spreading erup- tion of vesicles, and non-recurrence after recovery. H. Hertz records a case of pemphig. chronic, attended with amyloid degeneration of the liver and spleen.CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. 176j TifOKKAU, A.—Hospit. Tidende, 8, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, P- 4,3- KecordvS two cases of phlegmon of the skin of the face ending in fatal pjsemia. Ogle, J. W., M.D.—Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xlvi, p. 217. Records two cases of ichthyosis scbacea occurring in two sisters, set. 10 and 14, in good general health. The disorder supervened on some un- healthy sores, which occurred after vaccination. On admission into the hospital they presented the following appearances. Large patches of the skin on the front of the chest immediately above the axillae, as also on both sides of the trunk over the false ribs, and about both knees, as also down both legs (especially in the neighbourhood of the ankles) as well as on the dorsum of the feet, were of a brown colour, so dark as in some parts to be almost black. These discoloured portions were very rough and indurated, owing to masses of dry material covering the surface of the skin, which had the appearance, in consequence of the movement of the parts, of having become broken into scales or small tabular or lozenge-shaped patches, chiefly of a square form, and divided by deep lines, according to the natural creasings of the skin. Owing to these con- cretions, the surface was extremely dry and harsh. Down the legs and arms tiie concretion had less of a scaly form, and more of a papillary character. In some parts at the sides of the knees the affected portions reminded one of the dried and roughened sole of the fowl's foot. By daily warm baths, and inunction first of lard, and subsequently of dilated liquor potassa?, the whole of the morbid sebaceous matter was removed, and the patients were discharged quite free from the affection in about five weeks. It recurred, however, in about three and a half months, exactly in the same parts as were before attacked. The sebaceous matter contained a large proportion of fat, an albuminous substance, and various salts. Under the microscope there were found remains of numerous epithelial cells, besides a number of mainly round and oval, reddish- coloured, solid-looking bodies, of crystalline appearance. Peacock, T. B.—Notes on Hospitals in Northern Italy, and on Pellagra. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. Peacock describes the disease as presenting three stages:—(i) It usually appears in the spring, with a slight febrile attack, which is followed after two or three days by an eruption of red spots, or of erythema on the backs of the hands and the front and top of the chest, and on the feet and ankles. There is usually also some disorder of the digestive organs, especially diarrhoea, and vertigo or headache, at the time ; and the afiec- tion subsides and passes off with desquamation after a longer or shorter period, usually at the commencement of summer. Generally, however, the disease returns with greater severity the following spring; and so, after successive relapses and recoveries, fixes itself in the system. (2) In the second stage all the symptoms are more severe and more persistent. The skin affection is no longer a mere redness followed by desquamation, but the epidermis becomes dark and thickened, and has a tendency to' exfoliate, leaving under it a peculiarly thin and transparent cuticle ; oc-IlEPORT ON PIIACTICAL MEDICINE. 170/t casionally also tlicre arc vesicles, pustules, or fissures on the affected parts, from which secretions exude, and, becoming dry, form crusts. The gastro-intestinal symptoms are more marked—there is a morbidly acute appetite, a red and fissured but not generally coated tongue, and the bowels arc much relaxed. There is pain down the course of the spine and in the limbs. The nervous power also is impaired, so that there are tremor of the extremities, with headache and vertigo, a very desponding state of mind, and not unfrequently delirium, together with emaciation and weakness. (3) In the third stage the affection becomes persistent. The skin may either display the thick and dark epidermis, or there may be fissures and crusts, or the eruption may have entirely disappeared, leaving no trace but the thin and transparent cuticle. The patient's strength is now very greatly exhausted, and he is thin and sallow. The appetite is generally voracious ; he has constant diarrhoea, suffers from excessive despondency or maniacal excitement, and ultimately sinks into a fatuous condition. There is increased tremulousness of the extremities, ' with more or less complete loss of the power of movement. Ultimately the powers of deglutition and of speech may be affected, and usually he has impairment of common sensation 'or of sight. In this way he more rapidly or more gradually sinks, death being sometimes preceded by dropsical effusions into the large cavities, or by convulsions, and too fre- quently accelerated by suicide. Of 310 cases admitted into San Servolo at Venice, in the five years terminating 1861, eighty-two were cases of mania, two of monomania, ninety-five of melancholia, and 130 of de- mentia. The general paralysis which attends the last periods of the disease is identical in its symptoms and morbid appearances with that of the insane. The duration of the disease varies greatly, but is usually two to three years, and often much longer, even for sixty years. Pellagra is essentially a disease of the rural districts. Ballardini found in 1856, that of the whole number in the Milanese provinces, Sp"^ per cent, were peasants, 7-7 were artisans, and 3"6 followed other occupations. The disease is non-contagious, but is generally regarded as hereditary. Cal- derini states that of T84families, comprising 1319 individuals, inheriting predisposition to the disease, 648 were affected, and 671 were healthy; and it is supposed the mother more generally conveys the disease than the father. The disease affects both sexes and all ages, especially the years from thirty to sixty. Death often occurs from marasmus, and it is stated that there are then usually no evidences of disease in the intestinal tunics, beyond some redness or congestion and a peculiar thinning of the mucous membrane. Death is also frequently the result of the cerebro- spinal affection, and effusions of serum beneath the arachnoid, in the ven- tricles, or into the spinal canal, with softening of the brain or spinal cord, are then usually detected. Phthisis and scrofula do not appear to be at all prevalent among the pellagrose, nor does renal disease seem to occur. The frequency of the disease varies greatly in different districts, in Bres- cia amounting to 34*3 per 1000, in Sondrio forming only o'03 per 1000, of the population. Of the whole number of cases, 29,476 were cured, or 78-3 per cent., while 5657 remained uncured, or iJ-4 percent. ; 3390, or 9 per cent., had mental alfections connected with the disease ;"i 10, or 0 029 per cent., committed suicide; and 2385, or 63 per cent., died naturally.CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. 176^ The rate of mortality varied greatly in different districts, from .3-43 m the province of Mantua to 47-85 in Sondrio. As to the causes of the disease, neither poverty and misery, nor malaria, nor exposure to the rays of the sun, nor pecuUarities of soil and climate, nor the character of the water drank, the habits of the peasantry, or the construction of their dwellings, afford any satisfactory explanation of the existence of the disease, although some of them, by deteriorating the general power of the inhabitants, must powerfully predispose them to suffer from any morbific cause, and impart to disease developed under such circumstances a pecu- liarly intractable character. The opinion more generally received in Italy at the present day is that the pellagrose malady is connected with the use almost exclusively, as an article of food, of the maize or Indian corn, upon which, in the form of polenta (or the flour mixed with hot water, and boiled until nearly solid,) the peasants chiefly live. From the Sar- dinian report it appears that of 626 pellagrose persons, 522 lived upon scarcely any other food than maize, and 104 took it, though not exclu- sively. It is a commonly received opinion that it is the deficiency of nutriment, and especially of the azotized elements, in the Indian com, which causes the disease, but this does not seem to be the case. In the southern districts of Italy, in Sardinia, and in Burgundy, the grain is ex- tensively or almost exclusively used as an article of food, without pro- ducing injurious effects. We know, too, that in India large numbers of the population live exclusively upon rice (containing a smaller proportion of azotized matter,) and on vegetable food, without suffering from any similar disease. It is therefore probable that it is not the absence of nutriment which produces the disease, but some change which it occasion- ally undergoes, either during growth or after being harvested. The subject has been carefully investigated by M. Ballardini in Italy and M. Costellet in France, and they conclude that the disease is due to changes in the grain from imperfect drying after being gathered. It is stated that when the maize is cultivated in climates from their dampness and coldness not altogether suited to it, it cannot be fully ripened, and when placed in the granaries, without being previously dried artificially, becomes affected by a parasitic growth. Ballardini states that this appears in the oblong groove, covered by a very fine epidermis, which corresponds to the germ, and bcneatli this is seen a greenish powdery matter. Under the micro- scope it appears to consist of small globules, perfectly round, diaphanous, and without sporidioles internally. This view, if correct, explains the cir- cumstances mentioned above, as also the ascertained fact of the greater prevalence of pellagra in cold and damp seasons, and the occasional occuiTence of a similar form of disease, as shown by MM. Roussel and Landouzy—in those who have not fed upon maize. The preventive measures recommended are—(i) improvements in the cultivation of the soil, so as to secure the more perfect growth of the maize. (2) Drying the grain in the kilns as soon as it is reaped. (3) Lessening the propor- tion of vegetable food, and of this grain in particular, in the diet. As curative means, quinine and iron, good animal food and wine, are niost bene- ficial. Antiphlogistic treatment is highly injurious. Baths, sulphurous and others, have been found useful for the skin affection. In the 'Journal de Med. et de Chir. pratiq.,' June, 1863, p. 27417G;« IJKPOUT OS I'ltACTICAL MKIJICINK, there is n note from M. Landouzy, stating tlint tlie endemic pellagrous aHectioiis of Spain are absolutely identical M'itli those of the Landes (French) district, and those of Italy, and with the sporadic pellagrous liisenses of France. The endemic pellagra of Aragon, where crops of ex- cellent cereals are grown, and not a grain of maize is eaten, is absolutely identical with the endemic pellagra of Asturias, where maize forms the staple of tlie food. Cautisk, H. v., M.D. Lond.—On Leprosy, as seen in India; u-ilh re- marks on the eruption and anaesthesia. Brit, and For, Med.-Chir. lie v., Jan., 1863. During the last twelve years 54,3 deaths from leprosy have been registered in Bombay ; of which 409 were males, 134 females. The fre- quency of the disease in the class concerned in catching and Belling fish is very I'cmarkable, especially as this class contributes but in a trifling propoi*- tion to the general mortality. Leprosy presents three phases—(i) an eruption or affection of the skin accompanied with anaesthesia, and pro- bably allied, to lepra (Grsccorum) ; (2) an affection of the cutaneous nerves and superficially placed nerve-trunks, and of the Pacinian cor- puscles ; (3) a tumefaction or tubercular thickening of the skin, and the mucous membrane of the palate and pharynx. These primary symptoms, seldom, if ever, occur quite independently ; hut in all cases "one or other will be found to predominate, and to determine the variety or form the disease has assumed, which, however, may change as time advances. (I) Of the eruption.—Carter distinguishes four varieties—(i) the typical, consist- ing of circular or annular patches, from three quarters of an inch to four inches in diameter with edges raised, of a light-red or pinkish hue, free from scales, cracked or wrinkled; centre depressed, pale, dry, glistening; they tend to join andcoverlfirgcspaces. The raised margin issligbtlybenumbed ; the centre of the patches insensible; often entirely so, and always in the older ones. No preceding signs of irritation. The arrangement is more or less perfectly symmetrical. The shoulders, hips, elbows, knees, arm, thigh, forearm and leg, temples, cheeks, and back, are the sites mostly affected. The general health and bodily condition are good. (3) The second form consists of extensive patches occupying the back of the trunk, limbs, &c., often so large as to embrace considerable segments of the trunk or to surround a limb like a broad bandage. The margin is two or three inches broad, elevated, and of a light red; the centre de- pressed and benumbed, dry, pale, or of a darker tint. In both (i and 2) anaesthetic leprosy generally coexists. These forms of eruption may be seen at the end of one year, or not fully developed until three or four. (3) The third form is more frequent, and consists in a light discoloured state of the skin, in the form of irregular, often large patches, of which the surface presents hardly any other visible change than that of colour. The tubercular character is reduced to a minimum, and the border is indicated by a narrow, level, and reddish line, or by a level, lighter-coloured streak, the central parts having resumed a more or less natural tint, but remaining insensible. (4) The fourth form consists of numerous round, pale-white spots, whitest in the centres, markedly antesthetic, from which the cuticle tends to peel off. The surface of the patches presents a ratherCUTANEOUS SYSTEM. 170/i coarse appearance, the clogged hair-follicles being visible as elongated dots ; most of the hairs are white, thin, and short. In some cases of leprosy there is extensive blanching of the skin, apparently depending on non-formation of the cutaneous pigment. In others there is an opposite condition, viz., a black discoloration. There is no evident connection between the various forms of eruption described above, and a syphilitic taint. Carter is disposed to regard them as allied to the European squamous disease, lepra. The local preferences, he remarks, and the symmetrical arrangement of each are points of accordance. (II) Ances- thetic /e/j?-os?/.—Impairment or loss of the tactile sense is the character- istic feature of this phase of the disease; this, wheti complete, prevents appreciation of temperature or other kinds of irritation. In most cases only the limbs, and particularly their extremities, are affected; next in frequency tlie lobules of the ears and parts of the face, but rarely the trunk. This very remarkable symptom, standing alone as it does, is so far peculiar to leprosy, and the morbid anatomical condition on which it depends is also equally unique. Careful dissection and microscopic investigation has shown that the nerve-trunks alone are primarily diseased, no other tissue in the limb showing traces of change, except as the result of this, and the nervous centres themselves, and the nerve-trunks of healthy parts, remaining unaffected. The result of the loss of sensory nervous influence is remarkable, atrophy and interstitial absorption, take place, leading at length to the total loss of the hands and feet. As to the co7nparative frequency of ansesthetic leprosy, it was found that of 173 cases 60 belonged to this form, 30 to the mixed variety with the tuber- cular, and 47 to a combination with bai'as (the fii'st form). As to the age, when the symptoms commence, it appears that of 60 cases they were observed in more than half under the age of 30, in many under 20, in comparatively few under 40. Sex.—Males suffer much more frequently than females, and the same is the case with tubercular leprosy, hardly so with baras. As to occupation, several were fishermen, many ryots; all live more or less on dried or salt fish and rice. The duration of the disease varies according to its intensity, from three to thirty years and upwards. The natural mode of termination does not appear to be uniform ; generally some exhausting disease, often dysentery, carries off the patient, occasionally fever and albuminuria. Neither fever nor syphilitic taint is common, but an hereditary predisposition is undeniable ; it was acknowledged in about twenty-three out of forty-eight cases of all kinds. The disease does not appear to be contagious. As to the symp- toms, it has been stated that hypei-Bcsthesia was common at the com- mencement of the disease, but Carter has never been able to discover it. Local sensations of a burning, pricking, or shooting pain, susceptibility to cold, &c., are not uncommon in the fingers and toes; and there may co- exist tenderness on pressure and shooting pains in the course of the ulnar and median nerves, these symptoms never extending upwards beyond the seat of lesion, and to this the local tenderness may be limited, e.g. just above the wrist, or less often at the bend of the elbow, for the median nerves, behind the inner condyle for the ulnar, and behind the inner malleolus for the posterior tibial. General aching, wearing pains in the limbs, are sometimes complained of; or a sense of weakness, theREPORT ON PIIACTICAL MEDICINE. 17 Go patient being unable to grasp firmly, &c. Bullae or blisters are frequent, particularly on the extremities. In most cases they appear to be the result of irritation, sometimes, however, they occur in a perfectly spon- taneous manner. Deep ulcers by no means generally follow. In the course of a few months or longer the disease becomes confirmed ; the extent and degree of anoesthesia show that the nerve-trunks are deeply implicated. The skin of the hands and feet becomes dry and shrivelled • the fingers and toes atrophied and bent; the wasting continues slowly] but surely, until the leper becomes a poor cripple; his general health] strength, and mental faculties, impaired, and the more so in proportion as he suffers from want and exposure. According to Carter's observation, there is rather a diminution than an increase of the sexual passion. Morbid anatomy.—Fourteen autopsies have been made, eight of the anaesthetic, and six of the mixed form; disease has been found only in the kidneys and in the nervous system. The disease of the kidneys has been of the hypertrophous kind. With regard to the nervous system, in no case has the brain or spinal cord, or their membranes, been found diseased. The Pacchionian glands were in their usual state. The prin- cipal sympathetic ganglia in the trunk have always seemed healthy, and also those on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves ; on two occasions the former were examined microscopically, and on two others the spinal cord and the ganglia, with the same results. The roots of the spinal nerves have always had a healthy appearance, and also the large nerves forming the various plexuses in the neck, abdomen, and pelvis. But those nerve-trunks distributed to the affected parts have invariably been found diseased ; they are enlarged, of a reddish-gray colour, mottled or streaked in appearance, and of firm consistence, though supple; their investment of connective tissue, or neurilemma, is free from opacity or adhesion, so that there is commonly no evidence whatever of inflammation (if that process be limited to the neurilemma) ; although I have once found the ulnar nerve at the elbow of a pink colour, and adherent at one or two points, also the musculo-cutaneous and posterior-tibial nerves in a similar state, and therefore would not deny the occasional occurrence of appearances which may be regarded as evidences of inflammation of the nerve-sheath ; but in these and in all other cases the funiculi, or separate nerve-strands, have presented one uniform change of structure; in the last-named instances it ought also to be mentioned that the foot was in a gangrenous state, and phlebitis was present, so that the nerves may have become implicated by continuity, and in the instance of the ulnar nerve it is possible that some local external injury may have induced adhesion at the place of infliction. The funiculi of the nerves are the seat of the morbid changes, the nerve-tubules of which they are formed are separated and compressed by the development of a clear nucleated tissue amongst them, and eventually so much altered as to be even wholly destroyed. These unique changes are fully described in the ' Trans, of the Path. Soc. of London,' vol. xiii, p. [3. The morbid lesion is confined, not only to cutaneous nerves, but to those nerves only after they have emerged from beneath the fascia and muscles which may have overlaid them in the first part of their course, so that the radial nerve, e. rj., becomes swollen just after passing beneath the tendon of the supinator longus muscle ; so with176;? CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. cutaneous branches of dorsal nerves I have found the dorsal branch of the ulnar alone diseased, and that only after it had escaped from beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. By examination with a low micro- scopic power, it is evident that sometimes only some of the tubules in a nerve-fasciculus may be affected. The following is a list of the nerves oftenest found diseased:—Supra-orbital, just after emerging froin the orbit; auricularis magnis, just after turning round the sterno-mastoid muscle; ulnar nerve, at the bend of the elbow, sometimes in the hand, at the wrist; median nerve, just above the wrist, sometimes at the bend of the elbow ; radial nerve, as above mentioned ; external and internal cutaneous, and intercosto-humeral, after perforating the fascia of ihe arm; dorsal branch of ulnar, as above mentioned. The branches of the lumbar plexus are not frequently diseased, except the internal saphenous, in the leg and on the foot. Of the sacral plexus, the following :—Musculo-cutaneous, after perforating the fascia of the leg ; posterior-tibial, behind the inner ankle. The external saphenous and anterior tibial should also be men- tioned. It should also be remarked that the terminal branches of these nerves are generally found atrophied, and of a transparent, whitish aspect; at this stage it is hardly possible to say whether they were not diseased previously to the larger trunks, or whether this wasting is only a part of the general decay which supervenes in all the tissues, as presently to be described. Those appendages to the nerves, the Pacinian corpuscles, are occasionally found to be diseased ; thus they have been seen in the hands, feet, and abdomen. In a dissected hand the great nerve-trunks were also affected in the usual way ; the corpuscles seemed very numerous, and some were much enlarged, but clear ; the central nerve-fibre, however, was either small or absent ; others were occupied in their central part by a copious granular deposit, and this is probably the early stage ; the capillaries were evident and healthy. Physiological remarks.—In numerous cases, all noted by myself, it has been possible to clearly ascertain that certain changes in the hands and feet were connected with disease of the nerve or nerves supplying the affected parts ; in about twelve cases of a par- ticularly satisfactory kind the following were noticed :—For simplicity's sake, 1 will instance the inner side of the palm and dorsum and the two inner fingers of the hand, with a detected enlargement, often tenderness of the ulnar nerve at the elbow, and no other local symptom whatever. First, the benumbed skin sliows evidences of atrophy, shrivelling or wrinkling, dryness ; desquamation of the cuticle sometimes ; a reddish or purplish hue, and a decided diminution of temperature; the whole giving the impression of a dry wasting or mummifying process, with sometimes the idea of a subjacent effusion of reddened serum. The fingers look thinner, and in slender subjects smoother, with a tendency to assume and finally retain a bent position; the inner margin of the palm becomes concave; the interosseous spaces hollowed, particularly the first (which is occupied by the adductor pollicis muscle, supplied by the ulnar nerve); flic whole hand is weak, and the thumb droops. Interstitial absorption proceeding, the phalanges of the little finger shorten, beginning with the terminal one; eventually no traces may remain of it and of the next finger, which becomes wasted, bent, and shortened, although at such advanced stages it is not common to see the disease thus limited, for theItEPORT OX PltACTlCAL MEDICINK. median nerve lias generally ere this become implicated. In (he early stage buUce may appear on the sides or tip of the lingers, filled with dark- coloured serum; the concentric lines on the cuticle disappear, owing, doubtless, to the absorption of the subjacent rows of papillae, and a finely wrinkled, but especially smooth, surface is left; the sweat-glands, be- coming affected, cease to act. The phalangeal bones are strikingly altered ; absorption first renders the shaft very slender about the middle, then the head disappears, and the base remains as a curious conical piece. A general diminution in the size of the bones of the hand and feet has been seen, and even the metatarsal or metacarpal bones may be destroyed, as well as the adjoining row of short bones, so that nothing but a bare stump remains." The author is decidedly of opinion that the atrophy is the result of anaesthesia, but does not consider it fully made out how much is owing to irritation from without, and how much to the loss of the nervous influence. Expei-iments upon animals go to prove that the former is most influential. Barnes, R., M.D.—On the Fallacies of the Statistical Method as ap- jilied to Medicine. Med. Tim. and Gaz., Nov. 14th and 28th. Barnes remarks that if we could be sure that we were adding and comparing like things, we might have confidence in the results of the above method. But it is almost impossible to obtain such materials. He points out various instances where, under some general apparently accurate statement, a number of fallacies are concealed, which direct medical observation alone can detect. One example is as follows:— The returns show that 67 per cent, of the registered births are vaccinated, it is therefore concluded that 33 per cent, are unprotected. But by no means all the births are registered; many vaccinations are not registered at all; many children perish before they are old enough to be vaccinated ; many vaccinations presumed successful are imperfect. Barnes demurs altogether to the assumption that the errors here enumerated can counter- balance each other so that the ultimate result shall at all approach to accuracy. He maintains that pneumonia is more frequently a symptom or manifestation of some kind of blood disease or fever than a simple local phlegmasia. Bronchitis and pneumonia occurring during the first few days of childbirth are commonly nothing more or less than manifestations of puerperal fever, yet the terms are commonly employed when describing the cause of death in quite a different sense. In fact, pneumonia instead of being, as assumed, the most uniform and homogeneous disease, is utterly multiform, and consequently the deductions drawn from the results of various cases grouped together must be unreliable. With respect to the influence of consanguinity in marriages in producing certain forms of disease or physical degeneration, statistics are used with great force both by those who affirm and those who deny its effect. This, of course, proves fundamental differences in the observations. The truth is, that the con- ditions involved are so numerous and complicated as to defy the extrication and isolation of the one circumstance—consanguinity. Discoveries arc made in medicine, as in natural historj', by sagacity in detecting the rela- tions of things, by patient observation and questioning of nature. " Non uumerandrc, sed perpendendsc, sunt observationes."IIEPORT ON SUllGERY. BY THOMAS WINDSOE, SUBGEON TO THE SALfOED BOYAl HOSPITAL, AND TO THE MANCIIEBTEE EYE HOSPITAL. Treatises and collections of cases.—In addition to further portions of works already quoted in former reports, we have to notice ' Outlines of Surgery,' by F. Le Gros Clark, and ' Lectures on Surgery,' by "W. Lawrence; the surgery of Maitre Jean Tpermans, the father of Flemish surgery, edited by J. Carolus (pp. 191, Gand) ; the collected works of M. Burggraeve (6 vols, and atlas, Gand); the ' Clinique Chirur- gicale' of J. G. Maisonneuve (2 vols., Paris); and a new edition, the fourth, of W. Roser's well-known ' Handbook of Anatomical Surgery' (Tubingen, Laupp). Surijical Pathology.—A new edition, with many additions, of J. Paget's ' Lectures on Surgical Pathology' (London, Longman). Surgical Anatomy.—The third edition of the ' Ohirurgico-Anatomical Vade-Mecum,' by W. Roser (pp. 284, Stuttg., Ebner and Seubert). Military Surgery.—A treatise by L. Legouest (pp. 1000, Paris, J. B. Bailliere), and an account of the African campaigns, by A. Bertherand (Paris, 1862). Introduction of air into the veins.—M. Ore has recently experimented on this subject (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 33). He found, that, though an animal is inevitably killed by the introduction of a given quantity of atmospheric air, an equal and even greater amount of nitrogen, of hydrogen, or of carbonic acid, may be injected with impunity into another animal of the same weight and race. Oxygen may be intro- duced in almost any amount. An animal which would have been unable to bear 80 cubic centimetres of air scarcely suffered from the introduction of 300 cubic centimetres of oxygen. Death may be pre- vented by the use of electrical currents in such a way as to provoke energetic respiratory movements, even when a quantity of air is injected otherwise suflicient to at once destroy the animal. The author attri- 12178 REPORT ON SURGERY. butes death partly to distension of the right side of tlie heart, partly to paralysis of the muscular tissue of that organ, caused, as lie suj)- poses, by a sedat ive action of the air; he employs electrical irritation of the pncnmogastrics, with the view of preventing the latter effect, imagining that dilatation of the chest would to some extent remove the air from tlio heart. A. Mercier (ib., p. .321) docs not admit this expla- nation ; the vis a tergo necessary to drive in the air with suUicient force to cause mechanical distension of the heart does not exist; and as to the idea of a paralysis caused by the air, it is well known that the heart of an animal will beat for a considerable period after its removal from the chest. Mercier published in 1837 and 1838 (' Gaz. Med.'), and has since repeated, an explanation which appears to agree better with the facts. Death from the injection of air or any other gas occurs with rapidity, because the pulmonary circulation is interrupted, because the brain is not supplied with blood ; indeed, the condition is just such as would be induced by a prolonged syncope. This interruption occurs, not because the heart is distended or unable to contract, but because the frothy mixture on which it acts does not obey its efforts, but passes with great difficulty, or not at all, through the capillaries of the pulmonary artery. Such a difficulty, indeed, results, first, because the gaseous molecules have little affinity for the walls of the capillaries. It is a fact perfectly established in physical science that the passage of a liquid through very delicate tubes is rendered more difficult by its mixture with a gas. Secondly, because the impulse caused by the con- traction of the heart is only very partially transmitted to the more remote ramifications of the pulmonary artery, owing to the compressi- bility and elasticity of the gas. Thirdly, because at the moment of a contraction, the valves are not so exactly closed by a gas as by au incompressible liquid; and for that very reason a reflux takes place with greater ease from the ventricle into the auricle, and from the latter into the veins. The author has found in the inferior vena cava air which had entered spontaneously by the superior. It is also possible that the viscous condition of the blood is increased or diminished by particular gases. In accordance with his theory, he considers that if death takes place, as in a prolonged syncope, because the brain is too long without the necessary amount of blood, it \TOuld, perhaps, be pos- sible to delay this termination till the heart could liberate itself, pro- vided the whole of what little blood passes through the left side of the heart, notwithstanding the obstruction, could be carried to the brain. For this purpose he recommends—(i) to keep the head low: the experiments related in Bouillaud's report prove, indeed, that animals die with greater rapidity when the head is elevated. (2) To compress the axillary arteries and the abdominal aorta, or in case of need, the femorals. A dog, into whose heart he had passed a considerable quan- tity of air, passed four times from death to life, and from life to death, according as he pressed or not on the aorta (one axillary artery had been ' ligatured); it ultimately recovered (' Gaz. Med.,' 1838). He con- siders that electricity facilitates the circulation in the lungs, and should therefore be used when at hand. Instruments.—J. "Weiss and Son. A catalogue of surgical instruments,MATEUIA CHIRURGICA AND MEDICAL TREATMENT, 179 apparatus, appliances, &c. (London, 1863, 53 plates, and explanatory text). J. Leiter, atlas and priced catalogue of surgical mstruments, &c. (Wien, "W. Braumiiller). . -r,- , i r The elastic ligature.—Kt the suggestion of Trousseau, A. liichard has experimented with india-rubber threads. He describes the effects pro- duced on a tumour by strangling its base with such a ligature : on the first day there is no change; during the second and third the tem- perature gradually sinks, the skin becomes a little flabby, and its colour somewhat duller. These symptoms become more distinct on the follow- ing days: the mass diminishes, becomes wrinkled and dry ; it separates from the fifteenth to the twenty-fifth day, without interference, without pain, without inflammation, without the patient perceiving it. Such ia the course of dry gangrene. During all this time the furrow, which separates the dead from the living, remains hidden by the ligature ; it is much as if the wound were subcutaneous. Eeparation is almost complete when the tumour falls. He considers the process innocent, painful only just after its application, and of easy use ; it seems to him likely to replace all methods of ligature previously known. (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 418.) MATEEIA CHIBUEGIOA AND THE MEDICAL TEEATMENT OP SUEGICAL CASES. Disinfectants.—A. ChevaUier has published a special treatise on this subject (Paris, P. Asselin). 0. Eeveil ('Arch. Gen.,' 1863, i, 5, 1,52) is convinced that the sulphate of lime in bones, when transformed into sulphuret of calcium during decomposition, is the principal, if not the only, cause of the fetid odour emitted in cases of necrosis. He states that in decomposition the ternary compounds—the fats, sugars, and starches—mostly furnish acid products, which are very little odorous ; the nitrogenous bodies produce alkaline ammoniacal compounds, which are extremely offensive. He is of opinion that, to keep a wound in good condition, its secretion must be retained slightly alkaline, or at all events neutral. Putrefaction and fermentation are closely allied; all agents which impede fermentation equally impede putrefaction. Certain conditions must coincide before fermentation can take place ; such are (i) a fer- ment; (2) a fermentable matter; (3) water ; (4) air; (5) a certain tem- perature. The products of fermentation vary in accordance with the nature of the ferment and that of the fermentable matters, and also in accordance with variations in the external c onditions, in the air, water, and temperature. Thus sugar, which may b e taken as a type of ferment- able matter, may, according to the conditions, undergo the alcoholic, the lactic, the butyric, or the viscous fermentation. In the animal economy the fermentable material is almost always the same, and the moisture and temperature invariable; but the ferments and the access of air are variable; and thus it may be imagined how different may be the products of putrefaction. It would be premature to attempt to trace the very different and numerous reactions which in their totality constitute putrefaction; the products of these decompositions arellEi'OllT 0\ SUllGERY. ISO infinitely various. All that can be said is, that there are many kinds of putrid fermentation, and that thus it would be as useless to seek for a general disinfectant, which would act equally well in all cases, as to hunt after a universal i-emcdy. Disinfecting agents should—(i) destroy unpleasant odours ; (2) pro- mote cicatrization; (.3) chock tlie formation of pus, or change it from bad to healthy ; (4) especially and beyond all else, destroy miasms and emanations. The author has examined tlie air of rooms containing cases of measles and variola, and found gaseous organic matters which strongly reduced the permanganate of potash. Ilowevei-, the experi- ments of Gaspard have shown that men and animals can become accli- matised in pestilential spots ; and that where the man who has become accustomed to such exhalations can live, a new comer is rapidly attacked; the experiments of M. Bernard have proved the same thing of poisonous gases administered in small amounts. The author describes experi- ments which he has made with nearly all the agents recently recom- mended as disinfectants. Chloi'ine, bromine, and iodine, are the most typical disinfectants ; they decompose the various products of putre- faction, such as sulphuretted hydrogen or the sulphurets, ammonia, phosphoretted hydrogen, various organic matters, owing to their affinity for hydrogen ; they act as detergents, giving tone to the tissues and stimulating the vitality of the organs; they annihilate the action of venoms, of viruses, of putrefying matters, of all morbid products the introduction of which into the animal economy might become the source of fatal disorders. M. Keynoso showed in 1855 that bromine and iodine destroyed the poisonous property of curare. Gruided by these experiments, the author has experimented on pus from infecting chancres, on putrefying matters, on vaccine virus, and has always found the poisonous or special properties of these different products destroyed ; the experiments were made on men with the vaccine matter and syphilitic virus, and on animals with pus and putrefying substances. Bromine appears to be more energetic than iodine; but its odour is more unpleasant, its price is higher, and its action more irritating. He employs two compound iodine solutions—the one a weak solu- tion, in acute inflammations, or where much irritation should be avoided—the second, a strong one, in atonic and languid wounds. The weak solution is composed of— Tincture of iodine . . 5 grammes (gr. 77, about/3 i in xx). Iodide of potassium . .5 „ („ 77). Water . . . . i litre (2"i x)ints). Nitro-benzine . . .20 drops. The strong solution contains— Tincture of iodine . . 20 grammes (about /3 v m xx). Iodide of potassium . .10 „ Water i litre. Nitro-benzinc . . .20 drops. A child, aged five and a half years, was affected with a most fetid gangrene of the mouth. Various disinfectants, such as compounds of coal-tar, carbon, the hypochlorites, were employed without success ; the patient had to be placed in a separate ward. The weak solution, dilutedMATERIA CHIRURGICA AJiD MEDICAL TREATMENT. 181 with an equal amount of water, was introduced into the mouth thrice a day, and compresses wet with the strong solution were applied to the external wound; in two hours the smell had disappeared; so long as the dressings were kept moist, the disagreeable odour could scarcely be perceived, that of the nitro-benzine being predominant. This treat- ment, continued for forty-eight hours, allowed the nurses to approach the patient, which they had been unwilling to do before. The child died; the external applications were continued in the dead-house, and the offensive odour' did not return. The weak solution, used as an injection in a ease of fetid discharge from the vulva, completely removed the odour. The hypochlorites are undoubtedly excellent disinfectants, acting, as they do, on the volatile products of putrefaction and on the wounded surface; on the other hand, their disagreeable odour annoys the patient, they often irritate, and appear in some cases to increase, rather than to diminish, the suppuration. The author has found the method of M. Hervieux ('Tear-book' for 1862, p. 203) successful in a great number of cases; he saw it employed by its originator in a case of recto-vaginal fistula; it acted eificiently as a disinfectant, and cicatrization soon ensued. He found, however, its action on scrofulous wounds so irri- tating that he had to abandon its use. Nevertheless the hypochlorites will be always the best of all means for disinfecting the vicinity of a patient, owing to the volatile nature of their active constituent. The disagreeable odour of chlorine may be completely masked by adding, immediately before its use, ten to fifteen drops of nitro-benzine to a litre (2-1 Engl, pints) of the liquid hypochlorite. The constitutional treatment is of great importance in all unhealthy wounds; wine, quinine, and preparations of iron, must be freely used. Dr. Boinet ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1862, pp. 626, 644, 708) considers that fetidity or putrid fermentation of purulent secretions is only one of the causes which impede the cicatrization of wounds. A medicament which would simply remove the unpleasant odour would be of little value, compared with one which would modify the wound and prevent the se- cretion of unhealthy pus ; to promote cicatrization, it must act on both the pus and the secreting surface. The ancients made use of numerous detergents, such as various irritants, caustics, the actual cautery, all of which acted more or less efficiently as disinfectants. In 1859 Velpeau, in the name of MM. Corne and Demeaux, described as marvellous the effects of coal-tar and plaster of Paris on unhealthy wounds. Later experience, however, has shown that this powder is rather an absorbent than a veritable disinfectant, masking the odour rather than destroying it. As the powder was removed with difficulty from a wound, was unplea- santly heavy, required frequent renewal, even five or six times a day, and dirtied the linen, it was soon abandoned. According to M. Renault, neither animal nor vegetable charcoal has any disinfecting power. Per- chloride of iron has proved of use in hospital gangrene and purulent infection; its liquid form renders it of ready application ; it disinfects fetid wounds ; it decomposes sulphurous and ammoniacal gases; it destroys, or rather diminishes, the pulpy secretion with which the wound is covered ; and it stimulates the tissues without exciting inflammation.llEPORT ON SURGEEY. 183 Dr. Eodet (of Lyons) lias found so much benefit from a mixture of citric acid and perchloride of iron in botli Him])lo and indurated chancre, that he believes it will destroy, not only the syphilitic virus, but all any foul smell, changes fetid or sanious into laudable pus, stimulates the secreting surface, promotes cicatrization, and destroys the conta- gious property of secretions: its action on the surface of a wound is powerful and rapid. The author concludes with some remarks on the importance of appropriate diet and general treatment.* M. Demarquay has imported into France the use of permanganate of potash (' Gaz. des H6p.,' 1863, iro, 257, 31^). The solution used by him contains two grammes of the permanganate to 1000 grammes of water, and has answered admirably in cases of cutaneous and uterine cancer, of deep abscesses, of wounds, of ozjena, of fetid pei'spiration from the feet, and to remove the odour of the hands after post-mortem examinations. According to the experiments of M. Sicard, it is a most efficient preventive of the putrid fermentation of pus. Its advantages are that it can be readily applied, that it does not irritate the wound, that it does not soil or burn the dressings, and that it is cheap in price. Subcidaneous injection of morplda after operation, before restoration of consciousness after chloroform ('Lancet,' 1863,!, 148).—Mr. Paget, in a case of amputation, after dressing the stump, injected a solution of a third of a grain of morphia, with the view of inducing freedom from pain, and some refreshing sleep after a return to consciousness. This practice has been in use for some time at the Middlesex Hospital, and has afforded much comfort, especially after important and painful operations. From a quarter to a third of a grain, or even half a grain of morphia, may be employed according to circumstances. E. S. F. Arnold urges the use of opium in managing the shock and reaction of surgical injuries ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1863, i, 231). Ac- cording to him, administered after severe operations, it Ijoth rouses the energies of the prostrated sj^stem, restores and controls the circulation, soothes pain, allays irritation, and thus places the patient in the best * Iodine may also be employed as a vapour. G. H. Hoft'mann gives the following description of a plan ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1861, ii, 201), " which has contributed much towards the comfort of the patients in the wards, and lias had the effect, in several instances, of preventing the spread of ' sloughing ulceration,' which is sometimes im- ported into the hospital. The discharges fi-ora strumous wounds are often very offen- sive, poisoning the air, even for the patient himself. Condy's fluid, solution of per- manganate of potash, forms an admirable lotion, as it does not irritate the surface of wounds when dilute ; but it must be renewed frequently. Offensive emanations will occur during the night. "We may prevent these from extending to the harm of the patient and his neighbours by placing under the bed-clothes, and again under the l)eds, boxes with pervious lids, and containing a little iodine. The iodine vapour de- composes the gaseous compounds of hydrogen; and the hydriodic acid resulting is not prejudicial to the patient, like the analogous compounds of chlorine." ("On the Disinfection of B ooms, Clothing, Drains, &c.," ' Third Beport of the Medical Officer pf the Priv^Y Council,' p. 39.)183 MATERIA CIIIUUBGICA AND MEDICAL TREATMENT. possible condition for recovery, as well as for the exertion of the necessary reparative process. A certain reduced and debilitated or exsanguine condition appears to be necessary for the safe adminis- tration of the drug in full doses; in proportion as reaction or in- flammation have actually advanced, it will be necessary to be more careful of its dangerous effects being developed in the form of con- gestion or even narcotism. " In a case attended by Dr. Eobert Nelson many years ago, in Canada, a gentleman had been wounded in a duel. The" ball struck the posterior third of the crest of the right ilium, fractured that bone, and entered the body of the last lumbar vertebra, where it was found some eighteen years after. On the third night the agony of the patient was such as the doctor had never before seen, nor since; the bedstead trembled with his body; he breathed and spoke through his teeth, and perspired so much as to wet through a hair mattress. He entreated for relief of any kind, even called for death. To this patient, at 8 p.m., forty drops of tinct. opium were given; at 9 p.m., 5ij ; at 9.45, p.m., 5iij ; at 10.30, p.m., sj ; at 12 p.m.,_3SS; and between 3 and 4 a.m., 5SS; in all, 5xxiss; when relief was obtained. I should add, he had been previously very freely bled. This large quantity of laudanum was taken with impunity and benefit. He sub • sequently took 3SS-doses two or three times in the twenty-four hours, these producing and leaving behind no other symptoms than those of a moderate anodyne in ordinary cases of sickness; he gradually im- proved, and recovered. In the above case, of which only a short abstract is here given, we have the conditions necessary to establish a full tolerance of opiCim, viz., a system reduced by copious bleeding, and shattered by the severe and exhausting pain of a terrible injury, invoh-ing both sensitive and ganglionic nerves. We find that it was necessary to repeat the opiate in full doses, in order to keep the pain subdued, and such will mostly be necessary ; but instances will sometimes occur when the pain, being once eftectually subdued by opium, will not return, although the lesion that caused it remains. Before the soothing effect of the drug has worn olf, the system appears to have become reconciled to the injury. May we not infer from such cases as the above that when, by shock, or haemorrhage, or venesection, the necessary tolerance of opium has been established, that we may take the alleviation of pain as a safe guide for the extent to which it may be administered, giving it to any amount necessary to relieve pain, and no more—the cessation of the latter being evidence that the system has been thoroughly brought under its sedative influence ?" M. Demarquay on glycerine and its application to surgery and me- dicine (pp. 240, Paris, Asselin).—Glycerine is now preferred by many to fatty ointments as a local application, because the latter oxidize, become rancid, and irritate ; whilst the former mixes with water and is unaffected by the air, and thus appears to possess all the advantages of a fat without its inconveniences. Dr. Tilt, on glycerine plasters (' Brit. Med. .Tournal,' 1863,1, 406). M. Bouillon, on the preparation of Canquoin's paste with glycerine ('Arch. Gen.,' 1863, i, 357). Prof.* Schuh on the use of caustics (' Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 179, &c.),UEPOllT ON SURGKllY. E. Buscli, on chromic acid (' Deutsche Kliu.,' 1863, p. i). MM. Perria and Lnllemand, treatise on surgical anajsthesia (Pans, Chamerot). riiASTIO SUnOBET. The most important advance recently made lias been tlie introduction of osteoplasty, of some of the more important apjilications of which we gave an account in tlie ' Ycar-Look' for 1862. l)r. J. AV^olff has pub- lished the first part of an elaborate essay on osteoplasty in its relations to surgery and physiology, iji which he has collected all previous re- searches, and has further elucidated the subject by numerous well- planned experiments of his own ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iv, 183). His definition is, that " to osteoplasty belong all those bloody operations in which we implant bone or bone-producing tissue in some part of the bodv, with the view of causing a permanent existence of osseous tissue at that spot." He distributes the various operations of this kind into two groups: A. The first includes those methods in which we insert bones or portions of bones in some part of the body, where they are intended to heal-in and continue to live. (Osteoplasty by means of bone— osteoplastie osseuse, directe, proprcment diie.) Such methods are— 1. The insertion of a bone or portion of bone entirely separated from all its attachments. To this may be appended the im- plantation of teeth. 2. The insertion of a piece of bone which is yet partially adherent. Of this method there are two distinct modifications. a. The reinsertion of a piece of bone, which has been so se- parated as to leave a connecting bridge, into the spot to which it originally belonged. I. The transplantation of adjacent, and yet adhering, por- tions of bone. B. The second group embraces those methods by which we bring a tissue, from wliich bone can be produced, to some part of the body where it shall heal-in, live, and produce bony substance. (Osteoplasty by means of a bone-producing tissue—osteoplastie indirecte). Such methods are— 3. The transplantation of a periosteal flap left partially united to the neighbouring periosteum. 4. The transplantation of a periosteal flap separated from all its connexions. 5. The preservation of the periosteum with the surrounding soft parts in resections of bone—subperiosteal resection. To this method may be appended— a. Subcapsular resection. h. The scooping-out of bones—cvidement des os. 6. The transplantation of the osteogenous substance shaved off" from the periosteum. He criticises at length the various attempts which have been made to transplant portions of bone, both in man (after trepanning, &c.) and animals, and finds that in most cases the bone did not live, and185 PLASTIC STJUCEliy. that iu uo case is it proved to bave lived. He discusses the variou3 criteria which have been given of the vitality of transplanted bones, the formation of adhereuces, the normal appearance, the growth, the occur- rence of absorption, softening, fatty infiltration, or incrustation, the appearance of diflerent changes in different parts, and the artificial injection of the vessels. Cf these, only the last and the growth of the portion of bone can have any weight in the decision. The author followed the mucli more satisfactory plan of feeding the animals for a lengthened period after the operation with madder ; according to him, this is a simple, easily employed, indisputable, and only decisive means for the solution of this difficult question. The presence of colouring matter could only be explained by its transmission through the capillaries, and by the existence of a normal irritability and active nutrition. "VVe are un- doubtedly right in admitting that the transplanted bone has continued to live when it becomes of a red colour; that the nutrition has been excessive or defective when the colour appears more or less intense than that of the other bones; and, finally, that the inserted portions present the same appearances as if dead when they have not become in the least coloured red. Among the experiments, we may notice one in which it is shown that a dead bone underwent fatty degene- ration, and another (p. 240) in which a portion of the skull of a dove was entirely removed, and then replaced; it healed in, and the use of madder proved not only that it had lived, but also that there had been a more active change of tissue in it than in the other cranial bones. Such a result is, however, rare; it seems probable that it will occur especially where the wound has healed by the first intention, where the bone has been replaced in its original position, so that the edges exactly fit one another, and Avhere the piece has been removed from one of the flat bones. Among the uses, or possible uses, of osteoplasty in surgery, we may notice that the replacement of the disc of bone sawn out by the trepan was loug since advocated by Ph. v. "Walther, Merrem, and Klencke ; it appears, however, that such a proceeding is little likely to succeed, partly because of the entire separation of the piece of bone from all its connexions, and partly because the piece replaced is somewhat too small, owing to the rim being worn down by the saw. The autlior has experimented with another method, wliich appears to offer greater probability of success; the bone is divided with the chisel so as to cause no loss of substance, and on one side the piece is left connected with the surrounding pericranium, which is drawn aside with a hook during division of the subjacent bone. Other osteoplastic resections, in which the bone is separated so as to leave a connecting bridge, and again replaced in its original position, are tiiose of the nasal process of the upper jaw, with os nasi of the same side, performed by Langenbeck for a large naso-pharyngeal polypus; the operation performed by M. Huguier for the same purpose (' Tear-book,' 1862, p. 295) ; that by Langenbeck for a tumour of the spheno-maxillary fossa (ib., p. 272); those on the lower jaw by Billroth (ib., p. 289). The author enumerates among the possible applications of this process— (i) The operation already mentioned instead of trepanning. (2) Its use in some cases of very extensive necrosis. (3) Osteoplastic resection of186 IIEPOIIT ON SUUGEIIY. the Bcapvila for the purpose of exposing tutnours. (4) A similar operation on tlie storniun. (<;) Instead of the removal of the zygomatic arch, as performed by Langenbeck ('Year-book,' 1862, p. 271), an osteoplastic resection. As oxnmplos of the transplantation of adjacent yet adhering portions of bone, he gives uranoplasty by bone, an operation proposed by Diefl'enbach, and ])erformcd by W utzer, Biihring, and others; Pirogolf's amputation of the foot, and the similar operations on the knee and elbow, proposed by G ritti and Szymanowsky; rhinoplasty, as performed by Oilier, in 1861 ; the cure of pseudarthrosis by transplanting into the intermediate space a piece of bone i)artially separated from one of the fractured ends, an operation Avhich has not been attempted on the living. He concludes with a short account of osteotomy, and an enumeration of the cases hitherto recorded. R. Volkmann points out that there are reasons for doubting the per- manency of the new bony layers formed by means of periosteal osteo- plasty ('Detitsche Klin.,' 1863, p. 204). The new bone formed in fractures, in stumps, iu carious and anchylosed bones, is generally again absorbed after a time, and there is too much reason to fear that the bone formed by means of the transplantation of periosteum, as in uranoplasty and rhinoplasty, will suft'er the same fate. E,. Buchholz has given an account of the microscopical characters of the bone formed by transplanted periosteum ('Arch. f. path. Anat.,' xx'vi, 78). E. Zeis, the literature and history of plastic surgery (pp. 299, Leipz., Engelmann). M. HitFelsheim, on heteroplasty (' Gaz. des H6p.,' 1862, J579). Mr. Wood, successful transplantation from the abdomen to the arm ('Lancet,' 1863, i, 92, 635; 'Med.-Chir. Trans.,' vol. xlvi, p. 149). T. Holmes, series of three plastic operations successfully per- formed in a case of deformity of the neck from a burn (' Lancet,' 1863,1,322). Bhinoplasty.—Langenbeck, Verneuil, and Oilier, on periosteal rhino- plasty ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,'vol. ii, part ij pp. 2^2-3; 'Gaz. Hebd.,' 1862, p. 99, 'Gaz. des Hop.,' 1862, pp. 219,86, 87). M. S^dillot (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1862, p. 531). M. Nelaton (ib., pp. 122, 124, 136). Gheiloplasty.—M. Trelat (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1862, p. 84). Prof. Szyma- nowski ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1862, p. 517). E. Hamilton, by single square flap (' Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' xxxiv, 291). E. D. Lente, case of Szyma- nowski's operation ('Anier. Med. Tim.,' vii, 121). TEATTMATIC DELIEITJM. In the treatment of delirium tremens, after injuries, "W. Eoser (' Arch, d. Heilk.,'and ' Arch, flir Klin. Chir.,' iii, Gurlt's report, 219) re- commends, as a vital indication, the most energetic administration of opium ; for example, two grains of morphia at once, and a grain every hour after, till the pupils become much contracted and the respirations diminish to 10, 8, or even 6 in the minute. Tlio appearance of a patient so narcotized is alarming, but the result soon shows that the deep nar- cotization has its use; the patient becomes quiet, he sleeps a deep sleep, from which he awakes free from delirium; should a recurrence appear, no difficulty will be found in its management.187 WOUNBS. WOUKDS. M. Morel-Lavalloe has directed his attention for many j^ears to trau- matic detachments of the skin and subjacent tissues ('Arch. Gen.,' 1863, i, 20, 172, 300). Such detachments of the skin are produced by bodies presenting a large surface and dragging the skin in an oblique or tangential direction, thus tearing through its attachments to the fascia ; the passage of a wheel over a limb is the most common cause ; direct pressure or blows produce contusion, and not separation of the skin. The pouches of skin, which are thus formed, vary much in size j the author has met witli cases in which the separation extended over the whole inferior extremity, from the foot to the crest of the ilium. Effusion into them is extremely slow, and the amount exceedingly small; the cavity never becomes full; thus, many days after an accident, the author has found scarcely fifty grammes in a cavity which would hold more than ten litres. The fluid generally presents the characters of serum, sometimes limpid as water, sometimes more or less reddened by blood. Such cases are characterised by the small quantity of fluid contained in a large cavern ; the swelling is diff"used, appears in depen- dent spots, and changes its position when the part is moved; the extent of the cavity can be accurately measured by pressing the fluid in difierent dii'ections; when the fluid is collected into one part, percussion causes a slight undulation; there is no fluctuation unless the fluid is pressed into one corner. It is sometimes of great import- ance to recognise this condition; thus, in a case of fracture of the foot requiring amputation, where the integuments of the leg and thigh are extensively separated, it will be necessary to perform the operation at a point nearer the trunk, for otherwise the knife will divide integu- ments certain to mortify. Although the fluid increases with extreme slowness, it has even less tendency to reabsorption; it becomes en- cysted, and thus of indefinite duration; the patients generally die in a state of stupor when the skin is extensively separated. Putrid suppura- tion soon occurs when, owing to a wound or slough, the external air penetrates into these vast caverns. Intercurrent erysipelas is also to be feared. In simple cases the treatment consists of—(i) evacuation of the liquid by means of an exploring trochar; (2) blisters, which should be applied in succession over the cavity, and be quickly healed up; (3) compression over the blister by some elastic material. Where a wound communicates with the cavity, it should be closed if primary union can be hoped for ; in other cases it must be enlarged, placed in a dependent position, or counter-apertures must be made, as the occasion may require. Relief of pain.—"W. Detmold says, in his " Lectures on Military Surgery" ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1862, ii, 347), "You will occasionally encounter wounded, in a high state of nervous excitement and exalta- tion, who complain of the most acute and exquisite pain, much more than, under ordinary circumstances, such a wound would lead you to suppose. This may arise from an excited and exalted state of the nervous system, or may be from the laceration and irritation of some188 heport on surgery. nerve-fibres by a splinter of bone or some other foreign body. In these cases it is best to allay tlie excitement by a full dose of morphine, ten or fifteen drops of IMugendie's Bolutiou, and to soothe the pain by sprinkling half a grain or a grain of morphine directly into the wound, which will in most cases act like a charm, allaying tlie pain imme- diately ; yet where the excessive pain depends upon the irritation of some lacerated nerve-fibrc, this relief may be only temporary. You should therefore furnish a little dry morphine to the attendant on the ambulance, witli direction to repeat the local application, if required." MM. Demarquay and C. Leconte, on the influence of difl'erent gases over the healing of divided tendons ('Arch. Gen.,' 1862, ii, 653). M. Voillemier, on the treatment of collections of blood and pus by capillary punctures (' Mem. de la Soc. de Chir.,' v, loi). FROSTBITE. S. Adams has recorded a case in which, after diarrhoea and rapid emaciation, the autopsy showed ulceration of the duodenum. " The mucous membrane was covered with small, irregular, elliptical ulcers, with rough, serrated edges, and extending in different directions." The author compares the condition with that occasionally found in cases of severe burns ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1863, i, loi). GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Mr. A. Neill enforces the importance of fresh air and of local treat- ment by fresh water ('Edinb. Med. Jour.,' viii, 790). In wounds of the chest the head must be kept raised, so as to relieve the breathing; he has found fixing the chest by means of broad strips of adhesive plaster, passed round from over the spinous processes of the vertebrae to the front part of the chest, leaving the wounds exposed, to give great relief to the breathing, changing the condition from torture and extreme agony to comparative comfort. After amputation acute bron- chitis is to be feared, causing much danger to the patient; it is accom- panied by a considerable diminution of the purulent discharge from the wound, and is little affected by the ordinary remedies; when the pus returns in increased quantity, the wound assumes a more healthy aspect, and the bronchitis gradually disappears. " In the course of treatment in gunshot wounds diarrhosa and dysentery are very frequentlj- most annoying to the patient, and reduce the strength very rapidly. In these cases I have found nothing so speedily beneficial as powdered charcoal, in one-ounce doses, five or six times a day, and it has in- variably checked the diarrhoea. Through the whole course of treatment I have found that the tincture of the muriate of iron in small doses, twice daily, has been of much service, and has changed the appearance of the wound in a few days after amputation, when of an unhealthy aspect, to a fine healthy look, where the consistence of pus changed materially. I have given it in thirteen cases of gunshot wounds, from the seventh day for a period of about a mouth or six weeks, with the most satisfactory results."GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 189 E. Davies strongly recommends Tieman's bullet-forceps Brit. Med. Jour.,' 1863, i, 539). He can, from ample practical experience, testify to its efficiency. It is graduated to sustain a weight of fifty pounds ; • and however deeply or firmly a leaden bullet may be driven into a bone, a sufficient space for its teeth to hold by is created from the mere passage of the bullet. It is constructed with long and stout teeth, set outward like the incisors of a mouse, and will seize upon and hold a leaden ball when even a quarter of its diameter is within their grasp. Bloodletting in chest wounds may, according to W. Detmold (' Amer. Med. Times,' 1863, i, i), be replaced by another method. He says, " I would strongly recommend to you a remedy, which, while it gives you all the advantages to be derived from copious and repeated venesection, is free from all its injurious results; this remedy consists in applying ligatures to the limbs by a circular pressure to the upper parts of the arms and thighs, tight enough to check superficial venous circulation without afiecting the deeper arterial influx of blood. By this means, which is easily put into execution, you may temporarily withdraw any amount of blood from circulation without depriving the wounded of a single drop, the want of which might seriously affect his recovery; for when the momentary and imminent danger to life has ceased, that is, -when the pulmonary haemorrhage has stopped, you gradually loosen the ligatures and allow the blood which you have retained for a while harm- lessly in the extremities to re-enter the circulation." Dr. P. Smith questions the advisability of resection in gunshot or other injury of the knee-joint ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1863, i, 100). " Will there not be more hope for safety if the uninjured ligaments are left undisturbed, and merely the loose fragments removed through large depending incisions ? Let every fragment be removed, and take care that the incisions traverse the synovial sac to its utmost limits, and I am persuaded that we have done our best. Nature can more readily repair it in that shape than she can unite the wound left by exsection. By exsection we also destroy all remaining ligaments of the joint, and render necessary the most perfect rest and most perfectly adapted . splints. What do we gain by exsection ? Merely the removal of shat- tered bone, the smoothing ofi" of rough surfaces, and the extirpation of the synovial sac. All this, or its equivalent, is easily done by free longitudinal incisions and dexterous use of the forceps and gouge." T. Longmore, report on gunshot and sabre wounds of invalids sent to Port Pitt during the years 1860-61 ('Army Med. Eeports for 1861,' p. 442, Lend., 1863). Cicatrices—M. Panas, on faulty cicatrices, and their treatment (Paris, A. Delahaye). J. H. James, on the deformities consequent on burns, and on the peculiar nature of the cicatrices (• Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 246). Blue pus.—A.. Lucke ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iii, 13^; 'Deutsche Khn.,' 1863, 129). Dr. Bartscher ('Deutsche .Klin.,' 1863, 97). Erysipelas—A. Despr^s, treatise on erysipelas (Paris, A. Dela- haye), and statistics (' GJ-az. des Hop.,' 1863, 41). H. Dannenberger, nitrate of silver in erysipelas ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1863, 191). Ulcers.—li. Ulmer, compendium of helcology (Wieu, Braumiiller).llEPORT ON SUBQEttY. 190 B. Volkmanii, on the healing of ulcers under scabs, &c. (' Arch. f. Klin. Cliir.,' iii, aya) Hospital f/am/reno.—A. North ('Amer. Med. Times,' J 86.3, i, 2-;';). G. B. Weeks ("ib., ii, 46). R. L. Stanford, J. A. Dougherty, and Mr. . Goldsmith, on bromine in hospital gangrene (ib., 24, 84, 121). Dis- cussion on iiospital gangrene (ib., 109, 122). 1\ H. Hamilton, two cases occurring without previous wound, (ib., 1863, ii, 181,) and tabu- lar statement of thirty-three cases (ib., 201;). Pi/cBmin.—"W. S. Kirkes, on pericarditis consequent on pyajmia ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 431, 461). E. Quain (ib., 1863, ii, 29). SEPTICiEMIA. Prof. Panum, in his experiments on putrid infection ('Arch. f. path. Anat.,' XXV, 441), never found any inflammatory changes in the lungs, provided the putrid fluids liad been carefully filtered. The putrid liquid employed in these experiments came from decomposing dog's flesh; cold distilled water was used, and then repeatedly filtered. In respect to the nature of the putrid matters, he found the following results: J. The putrid poison is not volatile, but fixed; it does not pass over in distillation, but remains in the retort. 2. The putrid poison is not decomposed by boiling and evaporation, not even when the boiling is continued for eleven hours, and the putrid matters are perfectly dried by means of a water bath. 3. The putrid poison is insoluble in pure alcohol; it is, however, soluble in water, and is contained in the watery extract of the dried putrid substances, after their previous treatment witli alcohol. 4. The albuminous substances often contained in putrid fluids are not per se poisonous, but only become so because they condense the poison on their surface; they can be freed from it by careful washing. 5. The intensity of the putrid poison can only be compared with that of serpents, curare, and the vegetable alkaloids; for after boiling, evaporation, and treatment with pure alcohol, o'oia gramme of it almost sufiices to kill a little dog. He will not attempt to decide whether the putrid poison acts directly on the nervous system or as a ferment on the blood; if, however, it should prove to be the latter, it would differ from all known ferments by retaining its power after boiling and after treatment with pure alcohol. On septic poisoning of the blood, by "NV. Eoser (' Arch. d. HeUk,,' 1863, 135, 233). Much confusion has arisen from anumber of different conditions having been thrown together under collective names, such as putrid infection, septic poisoning of the blood, septicffimia. It has been too often forgotten that a great number of chemical processes are included in the popular idea of putrefaction ; that many difterent products of composition are absorbed, and may be injurious; aud that the circumstances under which decomposing bodies act on the organism vary extremely. It certainly makes a material difterence whether a putrid matter passes from the stomach or intestinal canal, and thus acts on the portal vein and liver, or whether, infiltrated in the cellular191 SEPTIC JEMI A. tissue, it excites local irritation; whether it possibly induces inflamma- tion or coagulation in the veins and lymphatics, or whether, after the manner of other poisonous materials, it mixes with the blood, and so exei'ts both general and local injurious actions. Such cases as belong to surgery may be distributed under four heads : 1. Traumatic sepsis (purely traumatic, primary traumatic sepsis). 2. Poisoning by putrid matter (secondary infection, sell-infection), 3. Infection by the poison of dead human beings and similar matters (infected wounds). 4. The specific zymotic septic process, hospital gangrene, malig- nant pustule, noma, &c. I. Traumatic sepsis.—Such are cases of severe injury, of comminuted fractures Avith extravasations of blood, where the dead parts at once pass into decomposition, and where the patient is attacked in a few days, before suppuration has commenced, by an acute, and often fatal, fever, a fever which can scarcely be otherwise explained than by the absorption of products of putrefaction. A fracture of the arm or leg, in which the injury is far from appearing so important, may be compli- cated with such internal destructions of tissue that the patient dies even in twenty-four to forty-eight hours, from the putrid decomposition and the absorption of putrid products. In many cases the septic poisoning of the blood occurs in combination with septic emphysema of the part ('Tear-book,' 1862, pp. 216-18) and septic infiltration of the cellular tissue. This condition was first described by Maisonneuve in 1853, under the title of " gangrene foudroyante." Billroth has given cases in which the putrid decomposition was not so raj^id—a process of exudation, purulent exudation, indeed, being at the time in process. ('Tear-book,' 1862, p. 197.) The cases of this description form a tran- sition to those of poisoning by decomposing pus, and are clearly the most common. They must, however, be included in the category of traumatic sepsis, according to the principle a potiori Jit dcnominatio, according to the logical requirement that the essential and principal should be placed first, provided their course is such as to justify the presumption that the poisoning depends, not only on the decomposition of the pus, but also on the putridity of the effused blood and necrotic portions of tissue. Roser has seen cases which appear to show the possibility of a septic metastasis to the sacral region. He supposea that, perhaps, in septic poisoning of the blood, a local affection or metastasis is most liable to occur in such parts as are most dependent— in the mass of cases the sacral region. He is not disinclined to consider many cases of gangrenous bed-sore as metastatic aft'ections. He con- cludes that— 1. There exists a septic poisoning of the blood by primary trau- matic gangrene. 2. There exists a septic infiltration of the cellular tissue by primary traumatic decomposing products. 3. There exist cases of secondary septica;mia in which the decom- position of the tissues and the putrefaction of extravasated blood are the principal phenomena, and the formation or decomposition of pus only accessory.UEPOIIT ON SURGERY. 192 4. Fiually, there exist cases of septic poisouiug of the blood ia wliich the disease appears to depend partly on the decomposi- tion of the blood and tissues, partly on that of the purulent secretion. 3. Poisoning hi/ decomposing mts.—Two different types of this form of poisoning may be clinically clistinguislied—that from the primary de- composition of the pus produced in acute suppurations, and that from the secondary decomposition of the purulent matter contained in chronic or so-called cold abscesses. The treatment of abscesses is regulated to a great extent by the principle that acute abscesses must be opened to prevent the absorption of decomposed pus, and chronic abscesses must be as long as possible unopened, to prevent decom- position and the absorption of the products so formed. We can perceive on the second day after a chronic abscess has been opened the odour of sulphuretted hydrogen, and by the fourth day it is very intense. The patient, who had been previously vrithout fever, now presents an increase in the temperature—a coated tongue, a bad appetite, and other, espe- cially intestinal, derangements. Prom the fourth to the sixth day the decomposition continvies ; after that period the symptoms again diminish, the pus becomes healthy, aud unless there is some impediment, as caries or tuberculosis, convalescence ensues. Pyaemia is very liable to super- vene in an infected hospital, but not in private practice. Some of the patients die from tuberculosis, others from albuminuria, others from exhaustion caused by the profuse and long-continued discharge. Death may, however, take place during the first stage after the opening, and the symptoms are then those of an acute septic poisoning of the blood. The symptoms are feverish heat and increasing weakness, perhaps diarrhoea, vomiting, and the formation of bed-sores ; death occurs within the first eight days. Post-mortem examination discloses no further local lesion, no pysemic deposits; nothing is more simple than to refer the death to the septic poisoning of the blood. Acute abscesses are also attended by a series of morbid phenomena which can only be readily interpreted by the supposition of the absorption of decomposed matter. The rigor which so often accompanies the formation of an acute suppuration, the loss of appetite, the constant sweating of the patient, are the principal results which may be ascribed to the decomposition of pus. The con- dition is generally at once improved by the opening of such an abscess. In the author's opinion, traumatic fever depends on the formation and absorption of pus, or, as he proceeds to more exactly define, the symp- toms of fever whicli usually occur after serious injuries are in most cases to be referred to septica;inia. Since a wounded man, a case of amputation, or any case of similar injury, does not present symptoms of fever till from the third to the sixth day, till the occurrence of a fetid suppuration—and since another patient, injured in a similar manner, in whom such suppuration does not result, is unaflected by fever—is it not clear that the fever is caused by the decomposition and absorption of the secretion, and not directly by the wound or the inflammation of the wounded surfaces ? It hence appears that two kinds of decomposing pus must be clini- cally distinguished—that from chronic abscesses, characterised by anSEPTIC/EMIA. 193 odour of sulphuretted hydrogen, aud that from inauy acute suppuratious pus of the latter kind possesses no special clieniical charactcrB.^ Hectic has been by many authors represented as a kind of chronic pysemia; it would be more correctly considered a chronic septictemia. AV'e cannot, howevei-, state with any definiteness how far the shiver- ing, fever, and sweating, depend on" the admixture of noxious agents rather than on the daily loss of constituents of the blood. No one, it appears, has any idea how to explain the morbus Brightii which so often supervenes on chronic suppurations. The same is the case in respect to the aphthous process on the mucons membrane of the mouth and fauces ; though, perhaps, a part of such cases may be connected with ammonisemia, we are still far from a special etiology. There are many extremely fetid abscesses which cause few or no general symptoms ot disease in the body; this may depend upon the walls of the abscess being callous and impeding absorption, or upon the odorous substances not being those which exert the most injurious influence. We are yet far from knowing what are the products of decomposing pus, and which of them are specially noxious. The volatile fatty acids, and their compounds with ammonia, are clearly not the most important, nor yet are the sulphuretted hydrogen aud ammonia. An important advance will, perhaps, be made in the doctrine of septictemia, when the chemical constitution of the fixed putrid poison discovered by Panum has been more accurately determined. Dr. A. Cantani has experimented with PoUi's treatment i(sulphite of magnesia 'Year Book,' 1862, p. 215), and has found it of service in some cases (' Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1863, p. 278). Gangrene.—"W. Cadge, on traumatic gangrene ('Brit. Med. Joiu-nal,' 1863, ii,368.) Post-mortem examination of a case of traumatic gan- grene ('Gaz. d. H6p.,' 1862, p. 604). Tetanus.—F. Asschenfeldt, case of recovery ('Arch. f. path. Anat.' XXvi, 424). E. Leyden, on the pathology of tetanus ('Arch.f. path. Anat.' xxvi, 538). J. Tufnell, on nicotine ('Dub. Med. Press,' and ' Braithwaite,' xlvii, 46, 51). S. Wood, recovery after division of int. saphenous nerve ('Brit. Med. Journal,' 1863, ii, 5). IL/drojiiobia.—Cases ('Spit. Zeit.,' 1862, 514, 521, 537; ' Schw. Zeitschr.,' i, 351). Gualla and Gherini, on curare in hydrophobia (' Gaz. llebd.,' 1862, p. 701). E. Gintrac, on spontaneous hydrophobia (ib., p. 731). Oppolzer ('Wien, Med. Halle,' 1862, p. 423, &c.). Dis- cussion on hydrophobia (' Gaz. d. Hop., 1863, p. 435, &c.). Glanders.—Mr. Savory, farcy cured by iodide of potassium (' Med. Times aud Gaz.,' 1863, i, 161). C. Leblanc (' Arch. Gen.,' 186?, i, 84). W. Pisshng, case (' Spit. Zeit.,' 1863, p. 337, '&c.). miiffnantpusiule.—W. Budd (' Brit. Med. Journal,' 1863, i, 85, &c.). M. Bourgeois, on the importance of the nomenclature (' Gaz d Hon ' 1863, p. 442.) ^ ■' Venereal disease.—History of venereal diseases among the Chinese ( Arch Gen.,' 1863, i, 625). A. Eeder, pathology aud treatment of venereal diseases (pp. 343, Wien, Sallmayer aud Co.) 13194 heport on suegeey. GONoannffiA. Prof. Zeissl has publislied some researcliefi ou the active constituent of copaiba ('Wien. Med. Woeheuschr.,' 1863, pp. loo, 115). Itappears certain that the action of copaiba ia purely local, and that it does not euro by tlic production of any change in the blood ; bcHides, it only acts on the urinary organs, as is shown by its negative eflect in uterine and vaginal discharges, as also in gonorrhoeal ophthalmia. These facts, supported by liicord's well-known case of urethral fistula, prove that the change in the urine produced by the medicinal agent causes the remedial effect. As it is now known that copaiba is not a single body, but composed of several constituents, it becomes necessary to trace the action of each constituent separately. It contains a volatile oil = C,q Iljj, copaivic acid = C^^ H32 0^, and a neutral resin, which has not yet been analysed. Another fact of some importance has been pointed out by Kees (' Guy's IIosp. liep.,' ser. i, vol. vi, p. i2i),F. Simon, and Valen- tin ; it is that the urine of those, who had taken cubebs or copaiba some hours previously, gives an opalescent precipitate on the addition of nitric or muriatic acid. According to the author, Dr. H. Weikart was the first to study this question with skill and success ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' i860). Weikart con- cluded that the active constituent, the resinous acid or the volatile oil, must be contained in the urine. His researches merely showed that little or none of the oil passed into the urine. Prof. Zeissl has repeated these experiments, and has arrived at the same conclusion. He explains the formation of a precipitate as follows :—Copaivic or any other resinous acid administered, unites in the intestines or in the blood Avith potash or soda, and thus forms a resinous soap (resinate of potash, resinate of soda) soluble in water, and expelled in solution in the urine. If, now, a stronger acid is added, the resin falls as a precipitate. The next step was, of course, to experiment with copaivic acid or with the copaivate of soda. As, however, these can only be obtained with great difiiculty, Prof Zeissl employed other resinous acids; thus, in a case of very refractory gonorrhoea, he administered abietine acid, combined with carbonate of soda in the proportion of 3 to 3,-and in the dose of 12 to 15 grains a day, with an exceedingly good eflect. As the body from which abietine acid was derived, and as a material to be readily obtained, he tried colophouium, finely pulverized, and combined with magnesia usta or carbonate of soda, in the proportion of 3 to i, and in the dose of 5 to 6 scruples a day. His experiments were too few to show the therapeutic effect; they proved, however, that the simple administration of copaivic or pinic acid (colophonium) did not induce the peculiar precipitate in the urine already mentioned. This could only be explained by the solid form of the resins mentioned, the fluid condition of the copaivic acid in the ordinary copaiba allowing a rapid change into resinous soaps, soluble in water. To bring the resinous acids contained in colophonium, as soluble bodies, into the organism, he determined to administer them in the form of a soap. Three ounces of crystallized carbonate of soda are dissolved in 12 ounces of distilled water j the solution is then heated to the boiling-point,SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF INTERNAL ORGANS. 195 when two ounces of finely pulverized coloplioniura are gradually added, the whole being constantly stirred, until a drop placed on a cold porce- lain plate sfciftens into a soap-like mass. The soap is then placed on a filtering cloth, and after the lye has dropped otf, thrice washed with a little distilled water. So prepared, it forms a yellowish-brown, smeary mass, which becomes darker and firmer by exposure to the air, but not dry ; it has a slightly alkaline, bitter, aromatic taste, and a smell re- sembling that of turpentine. It is perfectly soluble in alcohol, but with water forms only a frothy substance. Four parts of this soap mixed with three parts of magnesia usta form a mass which may be divided into three-grain pills, and thus each pill contains four sevenths of a grain of the soap. Prof. Zeissl has given eighteen to twenty-four of these pills daily, and has never seen after them such disturbances of the digestive organs as after the use of copaiba or cubebs. The pre- cipitate in the urine previously mentioned may be found after the ingestion of eighty or one hundred pills. M. H. CoUis, on gonorrhoea ('Dub. Quart. Joui'nal,' xxxv, i). O. Max, on the treatment of gonorrhoea ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 117, p. 175). Dr. Montgomery, on the treatment of acute gonorrhoea as a pm-ely local affection (' Madras Quart. Jour.,' v, loi). SYPHILIS. H. Lee, 'Lectures,' 2nd ed. (Lond., Churchill). J. Hutchinson, ' Clinical Memoirs on Certain Diseases of the Eye and Ear, consequent on Inherited Syphilis' (Lond. Churchill). P. Diday,' Natural History of Syphilis' (pp. 276, Paris, Asseliu). In this work the author gives a fuller exposition of the views he had previously advanced (' Tear-book' for 1862, p, 227). Dr. S. Willts, on the syphilitic affections of internal organs (' Guy's Hosp. Eeports,' third series, ix. i). It is now,maintained "that the internal organs may be affected equally with the external; that not only the cranium, but the brain within it, or the nerves; not only the muscles of the limbs and tongue, but the heart; not only the pharynx, but the oesophagus; not only the larynx, but the trachea, bronchi, and lungs ; also the liver, spleen, and other viscera." " In syphilis there is a disposition to the effusion of a low form of lymph, or fibro-plastic material, in nearly every tissue of the body, occasionally modified in character to a slight extent by the organ in which it occurs. Consequently, in those who have died suffering from this disease there is scarcely an organ but what may be found affected in this particular way. In solid organs, or in the interior of the tissues, there is found a more or less circumscribed deposition of an albumino- fibrous material, whilst on the surface of the body a similar material may constitute merely the base and border of an ulcer ; for just as cancer and tubercle, in their own peculiar diatheses, show themselves as masses of disease in the solid organs, and as ulcers in the skin or mucous mem- brane, 80 in syphilis the viscera may be found full of the syphilitic material whilst on the pharynx, larynx, &c., an ulceration may also exist." ' Dr. Wilks points out that the distinction between secondary and tertiary symptoms is quite arbitrary, the terms being used by differentUEPORT ON SUUOEliy. 106 writers in a diftereut sense ; but there is no reason for calling efl'iibeJ lymph on a bono a secondary symptom, and eftused lymph of the same character in the liver a tertiary condition ; and that it is altogether an assumption to infer that the latter affection occurs at a much later pei-iod than the former; indeed as the cliauges are precisely similar, there are good grounds for supposing that they both occur at the same time. iSyphilis being a constitutional disease, a patient cannot be said to be affected by it till some proof of general infection is afforded ; a ])rimary sore alone is therefore not syphilis at all—it is iiot till the peculiar depo- sition of fibro-plastic elements, causing induration, talces place, that the patient can be considered to have syphilis. A sure no more meAis syphilis than the bite of a mad dog means hydrophobia, unless the system be infected. It would be better if the terms primary and secondary were abandoned, and the simple term syphilis used instead. " What is meant hy tertiari/ sj/pJiilis.—If the so-called secondary syphilis, or that which is simply syphilis, possesses certain characteristic phenomena, Ave have a means of recognising its existence; and if, therefore, we find such phenomena classified amongst the tertiary or ulterior changes of the disease, we must replace them in their proper position. Writers, however, have not only spoken of changes already alluded to as being sometimes secondary and sometimes tertiary, but they have referred to other totally difi'ereut morbid conditions under these names, and which, therefore, clearly require separation. These I shoidd regard as the ulterior results of syphilis, not immediately de- pendent upon it, although induced by it. They are difterent from the peculiar eflects of syphilis already spoken of, and can only be regarded as the sequela?. Any form of cachexia, indeed, may produce them, although it is especially those parts which have been in the first place aftected by syphilis which suft'er, and thus it is not so much the character of the change which denotes the syphilitic origin as the site of the disease. Thus, the bones are affected in syphilis in a jnanner which is generally characteristic; but if from any cause the patient fall into a bad state of health, an extensive caries or necrosis of the ordinary kind may result. The first change is syphilitic, the second is a sequela of syphilis. Several cutaneus aflections resembling these sequeke ma}'^ occur under various circumstances, as, for example, ecthyma and rupia in impoverished strumous children. So also the syphilitic disease of the larynx may proceed under certain circumstances to disease of the cartilages, but the latter may occur independently of the syphilitic taint. Besides these aggravated diseases, arising in organs first affected under the influence of the venereal poison, but which have ceased to be syphilitic, and therefore to be regarded as the sequela} rather than results of a tertiary stage, there are other changes in the organs which have received a considerable share of attention of late years. I refer to the lardaceous or waxy disease of the viscera. In persons who have been worn out by syphilitic disease, and been suffering long from a resulting cachectic liabit, such state of organs may be very fairly predicted to be present; but they arc by no means evidence that syphilis luis existed, since they occur in cachexia arising from other causes. They are constantly fouud in yoiuig scrofulous subjects who have long been ill witli some local disease, as of a joint or a bone, and thereforeSyi'llILlTIC AFFECTIONS OF INTEllNAl, OllC.'ANS. 197 cauuot by any means be regarded as connected essentially with syphilis. The latter term should therefore be altogether removed from that form of affection iu which they arc found to exist. If the cachexia under which they occur be induced by syphilis, then let the cachexia be regarded as the sequela, and not styled the tertiary stage. _ Should, however, writers wish to retain the latter term, let it be strictly con- fined to this condition, and not made to include that in which the results of true syphilis are also found. " The subject, therefore, frames itself to my mind in this way : that the so-called secondary syphilis should be simply styled syphilis, and that the disease is known to exist so long as certain phenomena occur, these being exemplified more especially by the exudation of lymph in the various tissues of the body, thus showing that a morbid action is still in existence, and, according to some authors, a virus capable of being propagated iu various direct and indirect manners. This virus may be exterminated by remedies or may wear itself out, and the patient recover his health; but not infrequently, as a consequence of the vitiation which the constitution has undergone (although the syphilitic poison may itself have disappeared), a morbid state of system may have been produced, tending sometimes to a fatty degeneration of the various structui-es of the body, but more especially to that change Ivuown as the lardaceous or waxy. This might, with more propriety, be called the second stage, or, if preferred, the tertiary stage, but one to be distinguished from the preceding, inasmuch as the virus was then still present, whilst in the latter it has departed, the changes in the tissues being attributable to the cachectic condition, and therefore not unlike what may arise under other circumstances. Such a division of the disease into syphilis and its sequelae is one w^hich I have long proposed to^myself, finding it a simple one, and warranted by clinical experience as'well as by pathological research. " The post-mortem discoveries of the combination of the results of the secondary and tertiary stages should present no difiiculty, since much of the albumino-fibroid material formed in the true syphilitic stage is incapable of absorption, and remains during the life of the patient. Deposits of this kind may, therefore, be found in the livers of those who have quite recovered froui the disease, and may have died many years afterwards of an independent malady, or may be found iu those who Imve succumbed to the ultimate eft'ects of syphilis in the so-called tertiary stage. Because they are discovered in coexistence with ulterior changes, they are not therefore to be regarded as necessarily of the same age with them; for example, a lardaceous liver, with fibroid de- posits in it, is rather to be looked upon as an exemplification of two distinct morbid phases than showing occurrences of the same period. This explanation will remove many of the difficulties in the way of separating the stages of the disease, but not hitherto made quite clear, because amongst syphilitic subjects the greater number would be found dying at the later periods than at the earlier ones, and therefore all in- ternal affections would be placed in connection with that stage in which death took place. All experience and analogy, however, would show that these affections arose at an earlier time, and been merely carried on to a later period when they were made manifest to the eye.EEPORT ON SUnGERY. 198 " I would not go so far as to draw in every case an absolute line between the secondary and tertiary stages, nor to Bay that because ulterior changes had commenced tliat all secondary had been removed; for in cachectic patients, in whom it could not be said tliat degeneration of the tissues had not commenced, it would seem sometimes as if syphi- litic taint had also not quite disappeared." Effects of mercury.—"The opiuions held regarding it are apparently most conflicting, some of the older school maintaining that the prolon- gation of our cases at the present day is due to a less abundant use of mercury in the attempt to cure the disease locally, whilst many of the modern school refer the ravages of syphilis of former days to the uni- versal and too free administration of the drug at that period ; thej' point to the caries and necrosis of the bones, shown by the destruction of „arge portions of the cranium, as evidence of the superiority of the later to the older method. These statements are probably both correct, and by no means incompatible. It will be perceived that it is assumed that the eft'ects of syphilis and mercuiy are alike, and therefore it may be asked whether the question could ever arise were we properly acquainted with the peculiar effects of each. I believe there are many eminent men who hold the opinion that some of the worst forms of disease ob- served in syphilitic patients, especially the necrosis of bones, are due to mercury, and thus the greater frequency of this form of disease in by- gone years, when this metal was more freely and more indiscriminately administered. But how is this to be reconciled with the fact that mercury does not affect the bones ? Experiments have been made re- peatedly on animals, and all observers have agreed that the bones are not affected by the drug. Moreover, mercurialism is continually pro- duced in artificers in quicksilver ; of such I have seen several cases, where paralysis had existed so as to deprive the patient of locomotion, where the mind also had been impaired, and, in fact, the whole body undergoing decay, and yet the bones had escaped. It has been said also thaL mercury produces other effects resembling those of syphilis, but of this there is even less proof. The opposite of such statement I believe to be nearer the truth, the tendency of syphilis in the constitu- tion being to the production of a plastic lymph in the tissues, whereas the effects of mercury are the very reverse; they are, indeed, antagonistic, tending to the absorption of new tissue, if such exist—and if it do not, to the destruction of the old. In syphilis there is a forma- tive action, in mercury a destructive one. "I think all such contradictory opiuions to which I have alluded are clearly explicable if the division of the subject according to the secondary and tertiary forms of the disease be strictly maintained, or rather, as I would have it, into syphilis and its sequelae. The former, or secondary, shows the effects of the virus in the albuminous deposi- tions, whilst the tertiary exhibits the degeneration of the tissues due to the morbid action so long in process. Mercury is antagonistic to the first, but in unison with the second. It does not produce symptoms like those of the former, but only of tlie latter; but these are not syphilitic at all, but due to cachexia merely. JMercury, therefore, is antagonistic to the syphilitic condition, promoting tlie absorption of the lymph, which is pvo'ne to be thrown out, but is at the same time aFORMATION OF SYPHILITIC DEPOSITS. 199 powerful poison, acting probably on the blood, producing antemia and tending to a degeneration of the tissues. It must be evident that, either from the nature of the original poison or from some peculiar constitution of the patient, a powerful medicine like mercury may have exerted all its powerful influence, and beyond this have been injurious. If, therefore, a caries of the bone exists, wiiich, corresponding to a true ulceration of the syphilitic kind, exhibits a depression in the centre, with a deposition of new bone around, we know that this will heal in time, and few, I think, will deny that mercury at one time may not be beneficial; but should the caries progress beyond this stage, and lose its chjwacteristics in consequence of some general constitutional dis- turbance, nothing would be more likely to accelerate its progress than mercury. In a word, I consider that in the true syphilitic caries of the bone presently to be described mercury is useful; but if disintegration commences, above all remedies it would he harmful. The two state- ments, then, of its beneficial and injurious effects are not antagonistic ; for although thei'e is no proof that mercury has any especial effect on the bones, yet if a destructive caries already exist, no drug is more likely to extend the process. I cannot, thei-efore, but think that the observa- tion of experienced men like those I have mentioned, as to the too frequent baneful effects of mercury, must be correct. An objection may be raised by some in the denial of such an affection as syphilitic caries, or that this is ever witnessed without the administration of mercury; to this it may be answered that, if reference be made to those severe cases of necrosis of the calvaria where large plates of bone are detached, the opinion is, no doubt, correct; but if it be denied that a caries to a less degree occurs from syphilis alone, the statement must arise from want of experience, for, as I shall presently show, a caries may con- stantly be found in the cranium when the scalp is removed where no disease, or at most a periostitis, was suspected to exist." Mode of formation of syphilitic deposits.—" The character which the deposit assumes in a muscle may be taken as that which prevails more or less in all other organs. In the tongue or in one of the muscles of a limb, a rounded, hard lump may be felt through the integuments, and thus constitutes a tumour. It differs, however, from the ordinary class of tumours, known as new growths, since the latter proceed from a small point or centre, and continually grow on the siu-face, whereby they become circumscribed, and are constituted wholly of the new material which has been thrown out. This is the case in cancer or tubercle. In the syphilitic tumour, however, the exudation appears to have been, in the first place, of a soft and albuminous character, and being poured out in large'^quantity, has infiltrated the tissue; conse- quently, when examined, the lymph and the original structure of the part are found incorporated. At a subsequent period, when this has become hard, if a portion be examined by the microscope, the muscular structure will still be found present in the apparently simple, hard fibrous mass ; and thus it is that, if appropriate remedies be given at an early period, the tissue will be left in its integrity after the adventitious material has been absorbed. Thi.« is everyday experience as regards the tongue. In con.sequenco, also, of the lymph beiug poured out, and not growing from a centre, the diseased mass ia not so circumscribed as a200 IIKPOIIT OX SUIiGKUY. v.ow growtli, iiud the lymph or fibre will be found i-adiatiug into the umscular tissue around. Thus it is that tlie surgeon meets with such difRcuIty in his attcmjjt to remove these tumours by operation ; instead of their turning out as an ordinary new growth would do, these have to be actually cut out. If not absorbed by remedies, they become ver3' linrd, and theu more circumscribed, and remain inert for many years. " In the liver the same process occurs. In this organ the fibroid nodules are not seen, as a rule, until after some years of their exist- ence. _ They are then hard, more or less circumscribed, but found shooting out their fibrous rays into the surrounding hepatic tissue. In this case, also, owing to the contraction which takes place, there is often left a remarkable cicati-iform appearance on the surface. It is this exudation of lymph or fibro-plastic material and subsequent con- traction which poculiarises the disease; thus, in the pharynx and larynx, not only is there an ulceration, but an induration at the edges and base of the ulcer, formed by the same material, and in the case of the larynx there may be sometimes found a simple fibroid deposit, without ulceration. In the bone a similar exudation occurs in the canals, and if accompanied by caries, is followed by a similar cicatriform appearance as in other parts. This is often well exemplified on the os frontis of the cranium." Sfriicture.—" The deposit which is met with in the liver and other oi'gans has generally had a long existence there before it comes under our notice, and then, when submitted to examination by the micro- scope, is found to contain fibro-plastic elements, small nuclei, fatty granules, and some amorphous matter. By Prench and German Avriters the term gummy tumour is used to designate these syphilitic deposits, but it is a word which I do not adopt, as it would seem to suggest a soft and almost semi-fluid tumour, which is a condition not often met with, except in a very recent stage of the disease; as usually found, they are hard and fibrous, indicating a dried-up condition of a fibro-plastic matter; occasionally a secondary softening process may have taken place, and thus in one or two instances the nodules in the liver have been in a semi-liquid state in their centres; but in the best-marked instance of this which I shall have to mention a question existed as to the genuine character of this deposit, and whether, in- deed, it might not rather have been the remuaut of a dried-up abscess. On the surface of the bodyoi' mucous membranes, however, this soften- ing process does take place, and thus we have caries of the tibia aud cranium, or ulceration of the pharynx and larynx." " Is the sypliilUic deposit peculiar and distinguishahle ?—This cannot be answered affirmatively, since no elements possessing any peculi- arities are found in it. At the same time, should nodules of fibroid tissue of the kind described be met with in the liver and in other parts of the body, a strong suspicion would be excited as to the nature of the disease; and should, moreover, tliey be associated with other conditions usually recognised as syphilitic, the proof of the existence of syphilis would be as satisfactory as that for any other disease. For instance, the elements of tuberculous matter are not so distinctive tliat a single tubercle in the body is sufficient to indicate its nature; in- deed, should the theory of those physicians be correct, that tubercleSYPHILITIC DISEASE 01' THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Is onlv a modificatiou of inflaimnatoiy lymph, it would necessarily require a certain amount or distribution of it from which a conclusion could be framed. This difficulty, however, in fixing the syphihtic deposit with any peculiar characters has been considered by some sufficient to discredit its venereal origin, for they have said, why should that be styled specific which presents no other features than those of an ordinary inflammatory product? In answer to this, I would say that, in all probability, time will evolve some distinguishing features in these deposits,- but in the meanwhile I would demand of the doubters whether they disbelieve in the formation of a node on a bone, or lymph on the iris, because they are unable to point to the peculiarities of the eftused products. I think that the changes in one organ are as characteristic as in another; and thus, if an excavated ulcer, with indurated edges and other peculiarities, is called syphilitic, because these are the appearances usually met with in the venereal disease, so iu like manner I should say that fibroid nodules in the liver, deposited towards its surface, and producing a puckering of the surrounding tissue, are due to syphilis, because so frequently met with in that disease. The argument against such a conclusion, taken from the want of any peculiarity of structure, is equally applicable to the syphi- litic deposits on the exterior of the body as well as to a large number of other morbid changes in the system. Lympliatic glands.—" The modern theory is probable correct, that the enlargement and induration of those glands which accompany the Hunterian chancre is evidence of the true infecting character of the disease. When, however, the whole system has become contaminated, the glands in other parts of the body may become involved, and espe- cially the posterior cervical; but in reference to this, there appears to be some question whether they be not enlarged in consequence of some slight eruption on the scalp. In favour of this view, it may often be noticed that when any irritation of the skin exists, they may be ob- served to be larger on that side where the cutaneous eruption is greatest. It would seem, therefore, to be a question still to be answered, whether the lymphatic glands are aftected independently of the part whence the vessels leading to them proceed, seeing that, as a rule, these organs are merely involved in the same disease as the neighbouring texture, as, for example, the mesenteric, by typhoid deposit or tubercle, according to the character of the disease in the ileum; or as the bronchial glands ai'e efiected by cancer, tubercle, mela- nosis, &c., according as the lung itself is; or, as in pneumonia, where they are usually found inflamed, or at least enlarged an(J scrftened; for this reason I can quite believe that, since the lung may be affected by the syphilitic virus, so also may the bronchial glands. " As before said, Avith regard to the liver and spleen, I regard the lardaceous enlargement of the glands as a conseqtience of syphilis. This general enlargement of the cervical, mediastinal, lumbar, and other glands, is sometimes found in connection with the lardaceous change of the viscera, and arises from a general cachectic condition accompany- ing mostly a disease of the bone; but if arising from syphilis, must be regarded merely as the sequelfc, and therefore not directly connected with my present subject.202 TIEPOBT ON SUHGERY. Lungs.—" Should further observations prove that many of the cases of disorganization of the lung known as phthisis orig"inate, not in tubercle, but in a low organizablo deposit induced by the syphilitic poison, a very important fact in clinical medicine will have been discovered. There is no doubt that exudations may oceasionally be found in the lungs Avhich resemble in every respect those which have been described as occurring in the liver or other organs, and at the same time it is well known tiiat those persons whose constitutions are broken down by syphilis and debauchery often fall victims to consump- tion; but to connect these two conditions requires many more obser- vations than we have at present at command. For when the lung is disorganized it is very difficult to ascertain the character of the mate- rial which has been poured out into it, and originated the disease ; it may often, indeed, be found to be non-tubercular; but as low forms of inflammatory product are exuded under so many circumstances, Ave require that it should present some characters more marked before it can be pronounced indicative of the syphilitic poison. " An almost endless number of cases might be quoted where, in syphilitic patients, induration of the lung-tissue and local consolidation have been found, but it would be presumptuous, in the present state of our knowledge, to connect these conditions directly with the vene- real taint." Dr. Wilks, therefore, merely relates two examples of cases where a simple deposit was found, and which, corresponding in every respect with similar deposit in other organs of the same case, left no room for doubt. Larynx.—" Ulceration of the larynx is commonly spoken of as one of the effects of syphilis, but it is of a peculiar kind. It is character- ised by the production of a fibro-plastic material, which is always tending to harden and cicatrize under the curative process. It tlius presents marked differences from other forms of ulceration, as for example, the tubercular, where the ulceration spreads, and the sur- roundiug mucous membrane is often highly vascular. In the syphilitic process, when the activity has ceased from the administration of appro- priate remedies, a cicatrization takes place, leaAang the affected part puckered, hard, and shiny, as no other form of disease produces; the epiglottis may be quite destroyed, as well as a considerable portion of the vocal organs ; but the larynx eventually is quite healed, though indurated and otherwise mutilated. The great peculiarity, however, of the syphilitic affection over any other is in the production of a fibroid material in the affected part, without any necessary ulceration, as in a case where only one small abrasion, and that quite recent, existed on the mucous membrane. In this case the upper part of the glottis had become gradually closed by a small nodule or tumour, which corresponded in every respect to a similar deposit in the liver. The disease of the cartilages of the larynx I regard as one of the sequelas of syphilis, and may arise from other causes than the venereal affec- tion!" Trachea and hroncJd.—Dr. "Wilks adduces four cases; in the first there was a remarkable contraction of the trarliea, due to ulceration, at the same time the epiglottis was destroyed, and the interior cica-203 SYPHILITIC DISEASE OP THE EECTUM. trized in a manner whicli could leave no doubt as to its syphilitic origin. The second was a very similar case, the trachea bemg contracted from ulceration. The third case presented considerable thickening of the fibrous structure of the trachea, in all probability of a syphilitic character. In the last case one bronchus was remarkably contracted, a state, no doubt, due to specific ulceration. Rectum—Dv. Wilks has observed " ulceration of the rectum where the disease has extended inwards from the external parts. These cases have more especially occurred in women where an extensive ulceration of the genital organs has occurred, so as to involve the surrounding parts, and finally the rectum. Accompanying the ulceration of the mucous membrane, there has been an inflammation of the pelvic cellular tissue, and thus some contraction or stricture of the rectum has followed." Brain and nerves.—Dr. "Wilks is unable to bring forward any exam- ple of a clearly independent deposit in the brain substance. AH his own cases of undoubted venereal origin, where a post-mortem examina- tion has taken place, have been very uniform in character ; the surface of the brain and membranes have been united by a firm exudation, similar to that met with in other parts. If the neighbouring bone is afiected, it is by caries, and not by exostosis. The membranes are not connected to the brain by cellular tissue, but by a hard, yellow sub- stance, sometimes of great consistence, and destroying or involving the cineritious matter, or encroaching on the medullary. Eye and teeth.—" Various other affections, fully described by surgical writers, I need not dwell upon, such as iritis, although it would bo interesting to ascertain the relation which the nodules of lymph on the iris hold to simple inflammatory exudation, and the resemblance to the syphilitic deposits in other parts of the body. Nor need I but allude to the aflection of the cornea formerly styled strumous, and which Mr. Hutchinson has so w^ell illustrated by cases in his lately published work under the appellation syphilitic interstitial keratitis. It is interest- ing, however, to remark, in reference to the statement made at the commencement of this paper, that it was merely the external parts of the body, and those which come immediately under the view of the sur- geon, which were thought to be affected by syphilis, and thus that the iris was considered to be the only part of the eye afi'ected by syphilis, whereas now we are informed that the cornea, conjunctiva, choroid, retina, and, in fact, aU the structures of the organ, may be involved in a syphilitic inflammation. " I will only remark, as regards the teeth, that I consider Mr. Hut- chinson has well made out his case respecting the alteration they under- go in syphilis, although the doctrine has not yet pervaded all branches of the profession. I have myself no doubt that the notched condition of the upper incisors is the result of syphilis, and is due to an alteration in the form of the tooth when in the pulp, owing to the stomatitis which so often exists in the tainted child. I have seen this condition too often in association with a flattened nose (owing to an expansion of the nasal bones during an infantile periostitis), with corneitis, and other signs of syphilis, to doubt that it has been caused in the manner wliich the above-named surgeon maintains,"201 lllil'OItT OM SUUGKHY. lione.—" It haa been liitherto generally assumed that the caries and necrosis of bono occurring in sypiiiliH arc of the ordinary kind, sut-Ii as arise from the inflammation set up by injury ; but recent investiga- tions would tend to show tliat tliesc processes in syjjhilis are peculiar. If tliis be true, it would explain much of the contradictory opinionK which are held respecting tlic proportionate eil'ects of syphilis and mercury on the osseous system. If, as was said at the commencement of this paper, it be considered by some that caries of the bone in syphi- litic patients is always the result of an undue administration of mer- cury, it would be important to show that this is not so, but that the caries is of a peculiar kind, and one of the results of syphilis, occurring without the interposition of remedies. Of this I have no doubt, although, if the destruction of bone extend to a great degree, this may be due to an excess or abuse of mercuiy. It is to Virchow especially that we are indebted for investigations in this subject, and the resuft he arrives at so accords witli the well-known appearance, that thei'C is little doubt that his observations are correct. He maintains that in the cranium, for example, a similar process takes place as in other parts—a deposition of albuminous material occurring in connection with the periosteum without, or the dura mater within; and that the medullary or vascular canals are iilled with the same kind of gummy substance as in other parts, when a node is produced; also that this may ossify, producing new bone, or that a caries may result. On the cranium the latter is seen forming a depressed centre, with a deposition of new bone around in a dentated form, giving it a cicatriform appearance, just as is witnessed in the pharynx or other parts. " An examination of tbe skulls in our museum, will aflord suffi- cient illustration of this fact; several will be seen showing the cicatri- form or puckered appearance on their surface, tbe peculiarity being the destruction of the bone at the centre and the increase at the cir- cumference, the caries having also a peculiar worm-eaten character. In ordinary caries froni inju.ry a destruction may be seen going on, and a development of new bone around, with smooth edges, and having the other ordinary features, without possessing the above-named peculia- rities ; also in skulls which exhibit a destruction of tissue by cancer or lupus the bone is simply eaten away, without any disposition to the formation of new osseous material. It will be observed that the depo- sition of the yellow albuminous material between the skull and dura mater in many of our specimens is peculiar, whereas in ordinary cases of disease from injury a suppuration is more likely to occur. " In simple syphilitic caries there is no suppuration, and in this lies its peculiarity and au evidence of its origin. If, after a bloyr on the head, even if "the scalp be not cut, the bone becomes carious in conse- quence, some purulent matter is generally found on the surface or in the diploe; but in syphilis, the scalp may be quite sound, and yet, when removed and the periosteum torn off, a caries may be discovered winch was quite unanticipated, and presenting the peculiarities above spoken of. It is for this reason that Virchow has styled it dri/ caries. The same peculiarity occurs with regard to a node on the tibia, which onlySYPHILITIC DISliASES 01-' TllK NJSllVOUS SYSTBJr. 205 suppurates under peculiar circumstances, and therefore requires us carefully to distinguish a true syphilitic affection of the bone from one •which is merely secondary to an ulceration of the surrounding soft parts. The former is that of which I am now treating, and takes place quite independently of any affection of the adjacent soft sti'uctures. Our preparations will show that sometimes, instead of a caries taking place, the exudation ossifies, and thus the bone becomes much enlarged or hypertrophied ; and herein lies another argument against the afiec- tious of the osseous system being due to mercury, since the property of the latter drug is to destroy or disintegrate. No one, as far as I know, has yet considered enlargements of the bone to be due to mercury, at the same time that he has held the doctrine of the destruction of bone to be attributable to this drug. In a word, there is a disposition in syphilis to the production of an albuminous product beneath the peri- osteum and in the vascular canals of the bone. This may ossify, pro- ducing enlargement or hypertrophy of the part; or if ulceration takes place, a caries results; but here, as in the soft parts, a distinguishing feature is in the presence of a new material around it. As also in the former case, the ulceration is likely to increase from any cause tending to a disintegration of the tissues, so the caries of the bone may extend to a great degree under like circumstances, and especially under the influence of mercury. Thus are the two opinions reconciled—that all great devastation of the osseous system is met with only in those who have taken much mercury, and yet that mercury itself does not origi- nate disease of the bone." Dr. Zamhaco, on the diagnosis of syphilitic affections of the nervous system, ('Year-book,' 1862, p. 226; 'Edin, Med. Journ.,' viii, 628). —In general terms, it may be said with truth, that while no one symptom is pathognomonic of a disease being due to syphilis, the past history and a careful examination of the present condition of Islie patient are alone calculated to enable the practitioner to discover the essential cause of the malady. The question of diagnosis will, however, be more easily elucidated by taking a rapid glance at the more usual forms which the affection may assume, and observing the difi"ereut aspects it may present as it occurs in practice. In the most simple and easily recognised form we find that the nervous derangements are accompanied by other manifestations of the syphilitic diathesis, by which the attention of the practitioner is likely to be arrested. Thus at the very outset of the syphilitic cutaneous manifestations we meet with convulsions, hysterical and neuralgic affect ions. The eruptive fevers are the only diseases with which one is likely to confound the symptoms of nervous derangement which may occur during this period of the sypliilitic infection; and this mistake may be all the more easily committed when we recollect that the erup- tion of syphilis may very closely simulate variola, varicella, or roseola, while the nervous prodromata of which we are speaking usually diminish or disappear when the eruption becomes developed. On the other hand in cases of syphilis the eruption usually lasts much longer than the' exanthem of an eruptive fever, and the general nervous disorders recur again shortly after the manifestation of the specific eruption, if they206 RKPOUT on SUUGKIIY. liad calmed down ou its appearance. Besides, new symptoms indicative of the diathesis occur, which prevent, or at all events enable us to cor- rect, any error in diagnosis, yucli mistakes do, however, occur ; in one case, for example, the patient was supposed by his medical attendant to have tliree times suil'ered from measles, thrice from smallpox, and once from typhoid fever. At a more advanced period ditterent paralytic affections, neuralgia, diseases of the eye, &c., may also occur in company with other mani- festations of syphilis, the presence of which render the diagnosis much more easy. In such cases an attentive examination of the antecedents of the patient, the course or dependence of the different syphilitic phe- nomena, the relation of date or of intensity of the different nervous disorders with the other concomitant symptoms of syphilis, are so many guides to the discovery of the true nature of the nervous affec- tion. We should, however, make allowance for coincidences, and not attribute every condition which may present itself to syphilis, merely because the patient is undoubtedly syphilitic. At the same time, if a patient has never previously suffered from an analogous affection, of a neuralgic kind, for example—if this condition became developed without the existence of any appreciable cause—if it was one of those affections which occur in the course of syphilis at that period at which the dia- thesis had arrived—if, by the date of its appearance, it could be referred to syphilis—if, lastly, it was cured by the use of specifics, and at the same time as the other symptoms of the diathesis, we should then have proofs sufficient to satisfy the most sceptical, and to establish as certain a diagnosis as any in medicine. Let us take, for example, the series of morbid phenomena presented by an epileptic shepherd. In the first place, none of his family had ever been affected with any disease of the nervous system. He had always enjoyed good health, and never dis- played any sign of cerebral disease. In these circumstances he con- tracted syphilis, for which he was subjected to very irregular and insufficient treatment. Two years later, ha^^ng already suffered from a condylomatous affection of the pharynx and violent pains in the head, he became epileptic. After numerous attacks, the epileptic symptoms yielded to a specific treatment, while at the same time the affection of the throat disappeared, after which several years elapsed, during which he enjoyed good health. But at a more distant date other constitu- tional symptoms made their appearance, such as ulceration of the pharynx, affections of the nasal bones, and intense pains in the head, and were speedily followed by a return of the epileptic seizures. Sub- jected anew, and after two years' persistence of these conditions, to specific treatment, both epilepsy and the other syphilitic symptoms were relieved. Some time after, all the aftections disappeared com- pletely. In such a case, though the epilepsy presented no peculiar phenomena, there could be no doubt of its dependence on the syphilitic diathesis. The cases are not always so simple and satisfactory. It sometunes so happens that, during the active existence of constitutional syphilis, cerebral symptoms make their appearance which are ill-defined in tlieir characters, or, assuming the form of apoplectic attacks or cerebral207 SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. softening, persist after the other external syphilitic symptoms have improved under the employment of specific treatment. Tor example, a patient suffering from gummata of the skin becomes hemiplegic, the cutaneous tubercles disappear under constitutional treatment, the para- lysis continues; still it was due to syphilis, for at the autopsy a tertiary syphilitic tubercle was found in the corpus striatum of the opposite side. But the plastic deposit was surrounded by cerebral matter inflamed and softened, and it was this acute cerebral softening that caused the fever, the convulsions, and the muscular contractions, which made their appearance nearly a month and a half after the occurrence of the hemiplegia. Thus a new series of difficulties occur to increase the chance of an erroneous diagnosis. In such cases we must remem- ber that tumours of the brain, by their situation and by the compres- sion of surrounding parts, may induce inflammation, which then becomes the most important, and sometimes fatal, disease. It is not surprising that specific treatment fails to cure the cerebral affection in such cases, occasioned, though it be, by the syphilitic diathesis. The problem becomes still more difficult when the patient suffers from some nervous or cerebral disease, and yet has no manifest symp- tom of the syphilitic diathesis. It is obvious that the difficulties in diagnosis must greatly increase when the syphilitic symptoms are separated from the disease of the nervous system by a long period of time. Such cases require the most careful and attentive research, not only into their history, but for any trace of the pre-existence of syphi- litic affections on those parts of the body which are accessible to exami- nation. There is a class of cases in which the presence of syphilis as a determining cause is too frequently overlooked, and for which the only efficient remedy is thus unemployed. An example will render this more intelligible. Suppose that we are called to see a young man, not above twenty-eight years of age, suffering from hemiplegia. In such a case, although there is no symptom indicative of syphilis present, the ractitioner recognises, as the result of experience, that cerebral semorrhage in one so youug is an exceedingly rare condition, and that paralytic, apoplectiform seizures occur as the result of syphilis. He therefore inquires into the previous history, and finds that at some an- tecedent date there is good reason to believe that the patient has had syphilis. He is now in possession of a fact which may lead him to further researches, and eventually to a rational diagnosis. The treat- ment may finally confirm the decision, by rapidly relieving the morbid symptoms presented by the patient. In exceptional cases no satisfac- tory results, however, occur, even Avhen the treatment has been both carefully and rationally conducted; allowance must be made for the effects which continuance of the lesion of the nervous system must have produced on the surrounding parts. From what has been said, it may be inferred that a study of the history of any such case, with a thorough acquaintance of the various aspects under which syphilis may show itself, should enable the practi- tioner, in the majority of cases, to arrive at a decided and satisfactorv diagnosis. We must not, however, forget the difficulties, which beset us, in tracing such histories, from the ignorance or untruth of patients208 llEPOKT ON SURGKUY. IjiisLly, tlio comparisoQ of doubtful cases with others which are analo- gous in all respects—with this exception, that in tliem tlie existence of syphilis, as a cause, has been demoustrated—may frequently afford us valuable assistance in making out our diagnosis. It should not be forgotten that a patient who has never conti'acted the disease in its primary form may suffer all the sad and fatal conse- quences of sypliilis ; for the hereditary is quite as competent as the acquired form of the disease to produce afiections of the nervous system. The ditfei-ent elements of diagnosis must be drawn— 1. Erom previous symptoms of syphilis, which should always be sought out with anxious eai-e. 2. Erom any existing symptoms of the diathesis. 3. Sometimes from the form and characters of the nervous afiections. 4. Prom the comparison of the case in question witli others already recorded. 5. Trom the results of specific treatment, allowing, on the one hand, for its- occasional failure in undoubted syphilitic diseases, and on the other, for its success in various other complaints. M. H. CoUis ('Dub. Quart. Journ.,' xxxv, i). Dr. Kobner, on auto- inoculability of syphilis ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 402). Prof, yigmund, on syphilitic affections of the cervix uteri (' Spit. Zeit.,' 1863, pp. 51, 91, 99). L. Parker, on latent syphilis (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1S63, ii, 6). E. Eournie, case of syphilis communicated by the Eustachian catheter (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 426). Prof. Sigmund, on examination and observation (' Spit. Zeit.,' 1863, pp. 2, 18, 26). L. Mai'owski, on the social importance of syphilis ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, pp. 41, &c.). Case in which primary, secondary, and tertiary symp- toms were present at one time (* Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 450). J. Marstou, on the treatment (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i, 186). Prof. Sig- mund, on syphilitic affections of the mouth ('Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' i8(53, pp. 273, &c., and ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 378). M. Morel, on the local use of perchloride of iron in phagedenic ulcers (' Prag. Viertelj.,' 1863, iii, Anal. 28). P. Broca, report on the transmission of syphilis by vaccination (' Mem. de la Soc. de Chir.,' v, 575). Constitutional syphilis.—^Y. Hugenberger, on the question of its occurrence only once ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' iii, 161). Prof. Zeissl, on affections of the lymphatic glands (' Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863, pp. 274, 282). Prof, jeitteles, on a syphiloid prevalent at Briinn in 1577 ('Prag. Viertelj.,' vol. 79, p. 49). Dr. Giintz, on syphilitic fever ('Sachs' Med. Alman.,' 1864, p. 189). Congenital syphilis.—P. J. Pick, syphilitic mothers and their chil- dren '('"Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, pp. 105, 116). A. Eoerster, on the pathological anatomy of congenital syphilis (' Wiirzb. Med. Zeitschr.,' iv, i). Syphilitic affections of internal organs.—Cases ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, 11,384). E. Wagner, on syphiloma ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1863, pp. I, &c.). C. Tiingel, chronic brain disease from syphilis ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, pp. 201, &c.). P. Jseumann, motivement de ■manege caused by syphilis ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, pp. 2X, 33). G. Passavaut, on syphilitic paralyses ('Arch. f. path. Anat.,' xxv, 151).209 ARTEIMO-VENOUS ANEUKlSSr. J. P. Duncan, on sypbilitic insanity and epilepsy (' Dubl. Quart. Jouru.,' XXXV, 48). J. Slodkowski, Syph. Paraplegia ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeitscbr.,'V, 127). i-t /j a D. jNIilroy on Pulmonary diseases andtbeir relation to aypbilis ( Army Med. Eeports' for 1861, p. 423;. W. Aitken, on pulmonary lesions as- sociated witli svpbilia (ib., p. 432). Prof. Oppolzer, on sypbilitic disease of tbe liver ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 231, &c.) 0. Biermer, on sypbilitic disease of tlie liver and spleen ('Schweiz. Zeitscbr.,'1, 118). G-. Budd, on tbe influence of a long course of nitric acid in reducing the enlargement of tbe liver and spleen, that sometimes results from the sypbilitic cacbexv (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 259). Carhincle.—A. Pr'icbard ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, 11, i^i). ^/e^7/ff«if/a5/s.—Mr. Butcher, ligature of the femoral artery ('Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' xxxv, 257). Muscles.—M. Jobert, fungous growths from tbe synovial sheaths of tbe flexor tendons of the band (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 502). Prof. Oppolzer, case of myositis, &c. (' Spit. Zeit.,' 1863, pp. 321, 329). Lijmphatics.—M. Leudesdorf, case of lymphatic fistula cured by- digital pressure ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iii, 417). Nerves.—Prof. Schuh, repeated resections of the radial, &c. ('Wieu. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. i, &c.); case of neuroma in the deltoid muscle (ib., p. 311), and on excisions, &c., of nerves ('Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1863, p. I, ,17, &c.). J. Langer, on the infra-orbital canal (ib., p. 577). Arteries.—G. P. B. Adelmann, on the surgical pathology of the arteries ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iii, i). M. Noir, ligature of the external carotid for a wound of the facial (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 595). A. Prichard, wound of tbe vertebral (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i, 399). B. Howard, new mode of ligaturing tbe intercostals (' Amer. Med. Times,' 1863, i, 52). Mr. Higginson, ligature of the internal iliac (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i, 254). G. W. Campbell, ligature of the gluteal artery for traumatic aneurism ( 'Brit. Amer. Journ.,' iii, 103). AlTEUllISSr. Prof. V. Pitha'treated a case of popliteal aneurism by forced flexion for a lengthened period without success, but finally succeeded in curing it by- combining flexion with compression of the femoral; tbe duration of tbe treatment was about four moiitlis ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863, p. 130). A case of arterio-venous aneurism, apparently the one discussed in the 'Year-book' for 1862 (p. 245), was treated by Nelaton, who opened the sac and tied the vessels aljove and below. The operation took not less than an hour and a half. Ten days later, bEemorrhage occurred from the upper end, but was arrested by tbe introduction of a small piece of sulphate of iron into the artery and compression. Ultimately the bleeding recurred, and the patient sank (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' I863, p. 394). P. Broca relates at length (' Gaz. d. H6p.,' 1863, p. 453) an extraordinary case of arterio-venous aneurism at tbe bend of the elbow, with enormous secondary dilation of the brachial, axillary, and sub- clavian arteries. Owing to a slough forming on the sac, and hajmor- rhage occurring, amputation was performed through tbe middle of the arm. As a preliminary measure, the axillary was ligatured; this 14210 IlEPOttT ON SUllGJiliy. vessel was enormously dilated, larger indeed than the aorta, and its walls were very thin. As secondary lia;inorrhnge would, under such conditions, be certain to ensue, Broca punctured tlic artery imme- diately above the ligature with Pravaz' trocliar, compressed the vessel three centimetres higher by the finger, and injected fitteen drops ol'tlie perchloride of iron. It is known tliafc the blood begins to coagulate when in contact with the perchloride, in thirty seconds ; in this case, no clot had been produced in ten minutes, evidently owing to tlie com- pression being imperlect, and the blood escaping in and out. A trijde thread was passed under the artery, three centimetres above the first ligature, and thus the vessel could be somewhat raised, and accu- rately compressed. Twenty drops were now injected, and caused rapid coagulation, the whole of the space between the ligatures becomnig filled with a very firm clot, larger than the thumb. Tiie triple thread, for greater safety, \vas tied in a bow over a small roll of plaster, and not removed till the following day. On the amputation being per- formed, only one small artery in the bono bled. The patient died four days after the operation from a gangrene of the stump and wall of the chest, a gangrene very pi-obably caused by clots furnished by tlie first injection. However that may be, Broca is of opinion that the idea which he has put into execution, the idea of protecting the ligature by means of a chemical clot, may receive useful application in similar cases, where it becomes necessary to tie very voluminous and diseased arteries. Experience has shown that, under sucb circumstances, secondary hiemorrhage is inevitable, and therefore some other means, more efiicacious than the ligature, must be employed. From the point of amputation to the bend of the elbow, the artery was cylindrical, and uniformly dilated ; its circumference measured eight}'-six millimetres, and the humerus at the same level only sixty-eight millimetres. C. Charnal, case of arterio-venous aneurism of the elbow (' Mem. de la Soc. de Chir.,' v, 202), and report by P. Broca (ib.,p. 209). G. Lowe, case of quadruple external aneurism ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 186a, ii, 382). C. de Morgan, case of rapid spontaneous cure of popliteal (ib., pp. 54J, 568). M. Chassaignac, case cured by digital compression (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 487). M. Vanzetti, cases treated by digital compression (ib., p. 519). E. Hamilton, aneurism of ulnar, &c. (' Dubl. Quart. Jouru.,''xxxiv, 295). M. Leudesdorf, aneurism of the radial, cured by digital pressure ('Arch. f. Kliu. Chir.,' iii, 415). Mr. Bickersteth, axillary aneurism treated by opening the sac (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 16). EMBOLISir. Prof. Panum, experimental researches on embolism (' Arch. f. path. Anat.,' XXV, 308, 433). Prom a long series of experiments he has found, that the heart continues its rhythmical contractions for several hours after the coronary arteries have been perfectly filled with a wax injection, a fact of some importance in regard to one interpretation of the eftects of air passing into the veins. In sudden death from pul- monary embolism, the symptoms are the same as in death from cerebral211 EXPJilUMKNTS ON EMBOLISM. embolism,—tetfiuic spasms, paleness of the licad, luvokmtary passage ot the urine and tbces, very deep inspirations, &c.; death is probably caused in both cases by the ischsemia of the brain. He found tliat bodies, such as wax pellets, which exercised neither a mechanical nor chemical irritation, became encysted in the lung, without any further change in the pulmonary tissue; nor did they, when combined with. injection of putrid matters into the blood, excite lobular inflammation. Globules of quicksilver injected into the veins cause local inflammatory changes of the lung, as described by Gaspard and Cruveilhier; the inflammation is not, however, excited by the simple mechanical stop- page of the vessels, but by a specific action of the mercury on the sur- rounding pulmonary tissue. Emboli, composed of decomposing nitro- genous substances, excite inflammatory processes which may spread over large portions of the lung ; they commence, however, from the point at which the plug is arrested, and accordingly the tissues are most affected, even gangrenous, close to the embolus, while at a greater dis- tance resolution of the inflammation may take place. Perfectly fresh coagula of healthy blood, passing into the pulmonary artery, generally contract and disappear without producing any particular change in the tissue around them ; they occasionally under special conditions excite lobular processes: septic changes in the blood exercise no influence in deciding the effects of such fresh coagula. Pus causes no coagulation of blood contained in the veins of the living body, even after long contact. Both miliary tubercles and acute phthisis much resemble, and are possibly caused by coagula acting as emboli in the pulmonary vessels. The in- jection of wax pellets, of air, or of quicksilver into the vessels of various parts of the body produced very different effects according to the par- ticular arteries affected ; thus, (i) paralysis of the posterior part of the body and red softening of the lower half of the spinal cord in embolism of the coi-respondiug spinal arteries; (2) vomiting and diarrhoea, with enormous congestion of the portal vein, and the formation of ulcers in the stomach, which resembled the round gastric ulcer, and in the intes- tinal canal, affecting especially Peyer's glands, and resembling typhoid ulcerations—from embolism of the intestinal arteries ; (3) putrid changes in the blood in consequence of partial gangrenous destruction of the mucous membrane of the bowels caused by embolism of the intestinal arteries; (4) tetanus, ending in death within two hours, from embolism of the brain and medulla oblongata, unaccompanied by any noticeable change in the nervous tissue; (5) eczema of the lips, gums, and muzzle, indisputably from the embolism of air-vesicles in the corresponding ai-teries; (6) falling-ofl[' of the hair, probably; and (7) ecchymoses of the skin, as in morbus maculosus Werlhofii, undoubtedly from embolism of the arteries of the skin; (8) very violent rheumatic pains, gradually advancing muscular paralysis, and destruction of the muscular tissue, in consequence of the embolism of quicksilver into the muscular arteries and the chemical irritation exercised by the metal 011 the muscular substance; (9) albumen and blood in the urine, with patho- logical changes of the kidney, in embolism of the afferent vessels and Jlalpighian bodies ; (10) little extravasations from the portal vein, and the formation of solid bodies, spotted -with yellow and red, attainingUEI'OIIT OX SUllGliRY. even the size of a nut, attended by an intense!}' yellow hue, and partial destruction of the corresponding hepatic cells, from embolism of the hepatic artery ; (ii) some globules of quicksilver, which had probably stopped for some time in the heart, had become enclosed in coagula of blood; (12) iuliltration, inflammation, and aiieurismal dilatation of some of the arteries, into which sucii coated globules liad passed. Tlie autlior notes, as the usual results of putrid poisoning of the blood, that the intestinal mucous membrane is very red from congestion and infiltration, and that the bowel contains a bloody slime. Discussion on embolism (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 587). W. Cooper (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, ii, 488). TRAIS-SFUSIOK'. II. Demme, on the importance of transfusion in military surgery ('Schweiz. Zeitschr.,' i, 437).—A great field is open for the application of transfusion to cases of ana;mia and exhaustion from hajmorrhage. In many cases severe primary bleeding is not only immediately dan- gerous, but also exerts a most injurious effect in promoting secondary, and especially parenchymatous, haemorrhage. Another indication for its use in military surgery is furnished by the chronic anteniia from long-continued and profuse suppurations. It was on five such cases that Neudorfer of Prag operated, in 1859, during the Italian war, furnishing the first examples of the employment 01 this operation in military practice. It appears, however, that great deterioration of the power of assimilation, profuse intestinal catarrh, or far-advanced hectic fever contra-indieates its use. Finally, it will always remain of value, as a powerful stimulant, in nervous exhavistion, in syncope, &c.; it is not improbable that it will prove of much service in asphyxia from chloroform. On the other hand, among its dangers are the paralysis of the heart, often noticed by Brown-Sequard as a con- sequence of too rapid injection of blood, and the danger of causing con- gestion, and even rupture, of the blood-vessels in the lungs and other internal organs. The attempt of a recent writer, L. C. Morel, to re- introduce the immediate method must be considered vain, for the expe- riments of Diefienbach had already shown that his method must be for ever abandoned. Much more important is the question whether human blood alone must be employed ; the experiments of Diefienbach, Brown- Sequard and others have shown that the only danger is from a want of proportion between the size of the blood-corpuscles and the calibre of the capillaries, and that the transfusion of blood into an animal of another species has the same excellent eflect, provided the blood-corpuscles are of equal size, or smaller than the calibre of the ca])iUaries. Brown-Sequard refers some of the failures in previous experiments to the introduction of too large quantities of carbonic acid. Physiologists of importance, as Valentin and Yierordt, consider the innocuous use of animal blood in human transfusion to be an imjiorhnnt discovery; and Demme thinks it will much facilitate its introduction into military surgery. Par larger quantities of blood can be injected, and the o[)cration be repeated more frequently, than was formerly the213 TllAXSFCSIOX IN MIIJTAUV SUllCiKUY. case. Blood, lilce that of the horse, the cow, aud tlie sheep, can be iised. in which the blood-corpuscles are less than the calibre ot human capillaries. The transmission of dvscratic tendencies is much less to be feared ; syphilis is entirely excluded. Denis and Emmerz m the seventeenth century, Blundell, Polli, and Esmarch ('Tear-boolc,' 1862, p. 2^4), have employed sucb blood. . . In the operation, Demme recommends that the vessel for receiving the blood should be made of wood. The veins at the elbow are those into which the blood should be injected. lie opens the vein snb- cutaneously, by means of a canula, with a point like that of a quill pen ; the canula must then be kept in its place by an assistant. Ilia syringe is of glass, and has two apertures at the end ; one with n conical valve opening inwards, admits the blood; the other with a similar valve opening outwards, allows its escape; by this means all danger of the entrance of air is precluded. Such an instrument costs from forty to fifty francs. The quantity of blood injected must vary in different cases ; the practical rule may be to proceed in the first operation, until a sufficient effect has been produced, and for this pur- pose more than four or six ounces will rarely be necessary. Any repe- tition must depend on the degree and duration of the result obtained ; at all events, it must, when necessary, be undertaken before the effect of the first operation has entirely subsided. In wounds of the viscera, it will be best to inject only a small quantity at a time, repeating the operation as often as may be necessary. The same vein can be used for the first repetition ; at a later period it is better to choose a fresh spot. Cases are known, in which four to six transfusions have been performed, and quantities of five or six pounds of blood gradually injected. The effects of transfusion are as follows :—The countenance begins to redden; the eyes become brilliant and more open ; the pupils dilate; the conjunctiva sometimes becomes much congested ; the lips redden ; the heart contracts more energetically, and its pulsations are considerably increased in frequency ; the pulse is fuller and more resistent; the tem- perature often augments several degrees, and is more uniform in different parts of the body; the respirations become deeper and more frequent; dyspnoea is rare, but deserves, unless it at once disappears, the most earnest consideration ; the skin becomes turgesceut and per- spiring ; sometimes there is profuse sweating; spasmodic twitchings of the lower extremities occasionally occur ; in exceptional cases there is involuntary discharge of the urine and freces; diuresis is for the next twenty-four hours not unfrequently increased ; now and then patients speak of a general feeling of warmth and comfort running through them. The longer these phenomena continue, the greater is the hope of perfect success. AVhere they only last a few minutes, little can be expected even from a repetition of the operation. G. Braun, on transfusion in ana?mia (' AVien. Med. Wochensch.,' Veins.—J. Minkiewicz, on operations for varii (' Arch. f. path. Auat.,' XXV, 193). Jfa-nwrrJiriffe.—M. Nclaton, gunshot wound of the hand, &c. (Gaz. d.211. IIEPOIIT OX STTROEUY. Tr<\p.,' 1H62, p. 582). AV. Detmold, on tlie use of towels inptead of sponges in ligaturing veasela ('Aincr. Med. Tim.,' 1863, i, 97). J£cemorrlia(]ic diathrsin.—Dr. Grandidier, observations and researches since 1854—a critical review ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 1x7, ]). 329). Na'vus, &c. — Prof. Zeiss], on the ti'eatmcnt by tartar emetic ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 445). M. Giraldes (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 493), and discussion (ib., p. 499). J. C. Wordsworth, the hot needle ('Lane.,' 1863, i, 294). M.. Bertherand, ligature of the carotid for an erectile tumour of the scalp (' Brit. Med. Joui'u.,' 1863, i, 511). M. Deloro and A. Eichard, case of cirsoid aneurism (' Gaz. Ilebd.,' 1863, p. 365). II. Dcmmo, an analysis of Porta's monograph (' Schweiz. Zeitschr.,' i, 161;). Tumours.—The first volume of a comprehensive work on tumours by R. Virchow (pp. 543, Berlin, Hirscliwald). E. Quain, on recurrent fibroid (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, i^^). A. Hermann (' Prag. Viertelj.,' 1863, i, 126; ii, 20; iii, loi). T. Brj^ant, clinical report on tumours (' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' 3rd series, ix, 212). Mi-. Hart, on cysts nt the back of the Imee (' Med. Tim, and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 377). T30KES. H.Demme,tlie diagnosis and treatment of diffuse spontaneous osteomy- elitis ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,* iii, 169.)—"Whilst osteitis, iu a strict sense, or inflammation of the proper osseous tissue has been only recently proved to exist, it appears that the older surgeons recognised an inflammation of the vascular tissues in the centre of the long bones in opposition to perios- titis. They, however, studied it exclusively in connection with direct injuries of the medullary canal, especially comminuted fractures and amputations; and Chassaignac (18^3, 1859) was the first to accuratelv define and study anatomically and clinically the spontaneous or essential osteomyelitis, which occurs independently of any separation of continuity of the bones. In recent years, German writers have occupied them'- selves especially with inflammatory separation of the epiphysis, an affection which they considered identical with the osteomyelitis described by Chassaignac. The former affection is, however, by no means neces- sarily connected with inflammation of the medullary tissues, of which ' it forms an important, but only occasional, complication; thus, accord- ing to present experience, it occurs as a cousequence of periostiti,-; attacking the lower third of the femur in youthful individuals; 2, as a result of an acute inflammation of a joint in young persons ; 3, in con- nection with a circumscribed inflammation of tlie epiphysis ; and, 4, after either circumscribed or difluse osteomyelitis. It is of importance to separate the circumscribed from the difluse form of osteomyelitis, for the former, in connection with abscess of bone and tubercle, has been far better studied than the latter, is an essentially difterent disease from the one described by Chassaignac, is in respect to its development, course, and the participation of the rest of the organism a local aftection, which, diagnosed early, may end in j-ecovery, and in which the mortality from p^'iemia, septicemia, andOSTEOJtyELITIS, S15 liectic, is relatively small. On the other hand, the diffuse form, which Avas denominated by Chassaignac "typhns des membres," is a liir more serious affection; it always threatens the life of the hone, usually pro- duces most grave constitutional disturbance, and often, when acute, endangers life by pysemia and septic poisoning, when chronic, by exhaustion. In the present essay the author treats only the spontaneous diffuse osteomyelitis of the femur, because it is the form mosc fre- quently observed, is admitted by all authors to be the most dangerous, and was least accurately and minutely described by Chassaignac. A most important foundation for the anatomy, pathology, and treatment of the disease, is furnished by seventeen cases, observed and carefully reported by the author, who has supplemented them by various other macroscopical and microscopical examinations of bones, and by the study of the different works bearing on this subject. Patliological anatomy.—There is rarely an opportunity to examine the hyperemia which accompanies the commencement of a spontaneous osteomyelitis. The redness is then mostly diffuse, uniform, more rarely in isolated spots; the medulla, which in the normal condition does not completely fill the canal, closely presses against its walls ; the hypenemia is rarely limited to the marrow of the central canal, but extends through the cancellated tissue as far as the cortical layer. At this time effu- sions of blood are generally found both in the medullary canal, and in the cancelli of the spongy bone; some of them arise from traumatic causes or rheumatic congestions, others from partial obliterations of vessels. At a later period extravasations occur from the walls of ves- sels becoming ulcerated. By imbibition and the development of pig- ment, changes in colour are usually induced at an early period; they have, by many authorities, been considered the result of septic inflam- mations. The duration of the stage of congestion varies in different cases. The most common terminations of the circumscribed form are suppuration or tuberculization; cases are, however, by no means rare, in which osteoporosis and sclerosis result. Many authors confound the changes produced by osteomyelitis with those arising from genuine osteitis and caries. The author considers it important to remember that the changes in the osseous tissue which are denominated caries, must be anatomically referred to two different processes :—i, to primary changes and proliferations of the medulla (the term being understood in its widest sense), and especially of the con- nective tissue accompanying the vessels in the Haversian canals. This process is one of interstitial osteomyelitis (in opposition to the central osteomyelitis essentially limited to the tissue of the central medullary canal) ; 2, to a proliferation of pus-cells, or of granulations proceeding from the bone-cells (bone-ulceration in the sense of Virchow). Clini- cally these forms, owing to their mutual combinations, cannot be <listinguished. In respect to diffuse osteomyelitis, the author states—-(i) that there is a piire osteomyelitis diffusa, causing suppuration, tuberculization, necrosis, or sclerosis, which is anatomically allied to the circumscribed form, and only differs from it by the wider extent of the disease, by216 EEPOltT OX SUKGKIiy. the more frequent implication of an adjacent joint, and by the serious general symptoms. (2) There is a dift'use tln-ombosis of the veins of the bone, wliicli, in analogy to simihir processes in the soft parts, sliould be distiiiguislied from osteophk'bitiH; it is for the bones the analogue of phlegmasia alba dolens, and may end in phlebitis and periphlebitis of the veins of the bone. (3) In both forms putrid decomposition, witli its further consequences, and the symptoms of septicasmia, may sometimes be observed (osteo- myelitis septica). (4) Both forms may lead to purulent metastasis. There is, however, no necessary connection between pya3mia and any form of osteomyelitis. Tiie author, in his description, especially notes two of the pathological changes accompany ing pure diffuse osteomyelitis, tlie periostitis and the disease of the adjacent joint. The former generally possesses the same characters as the changes of the medulla; thus it is usually purulent. The pus is deposited to the outer side of the periosteum, in its tissue, or between it and the bone ; and it may, as in genuine osteomyelitis, undergo tuberculization or putrid decomposition. Chassaignac supposed that the pus, produced by the periostitis, accompanying inflammation of the medullary tissues, was peculiarly characterised by its containing large quantities of oil- globules. The author states that such a symptom is quite accidental, and often absent. Fibrous inflammation of the periosteum accompanies principally dry proliferations of the marrow: the exudation ultimately changes into a fibrous layer, as hard as cartilage, and so closely con- nected with the periosteum, that no distinct limit can be perceived. The author has only studied one case of hemorrhagic periostitis. Osteo- plastic inflammation of the periosteum has been mentioned by most authors only in connection with necrosis, but the author's experience proves it to be of frequent occurrence, and the constant accompaniment of recovery, whether necrosis has occurred or not. The latter is cer- tainly rarer than is generally supposed. The author's cases prove that even in the purulent forms it is by no means a conditio sine qua non of recoverj*. In respect to the frequency of the characteristic joint-disease accom- panying spontaneous difiuse osteomyelitis, the author agrees fully with Chassaignac, but not in regard to the joint aflected. For whilst the latter asserts that the more central joint is always attacked, tlie author found in his seventeen cases of osteomyelitis femoris, the Itnee always aflfected, with the exception of a solitary case, in which the hip suffered. According to his examinations, the disease of the joint occurs in the following forms :—i. Very often in that of an acute oedema, a dropsy of tlie joint from the increased pressure in the capillaries and veins of the synovial membrane, which results from thrombosis of the veins of the bone and periosteum. 2. Empyema of the joint is very frequently found, owing to superficial suppuration of the synovial membrane; it may retro- grade, even without the pus being discharged externally, and the power of motion maybe tolerably restored. 3. Deeply-penetrating destructive inflammations of the joint, in which no direct transmission of the process through the epiphysis can be found; they appear to depend on embolism,217 CAITSES OF OSTEOMYKLITIS. generally occur suddenly, and are attended by characteristic general symptoiiis. 4. Tiie ulcerative process in tlio medullary canal penetrates tiie epiphysis and cartilage, and thus the joint-affection is directly excited by the osteomyelitis. The two latter forms generally end in partial or total, fibrous or bony anchylosis, if life is prolonged over the stages of suppuration and putrid decomposition. Partial separation or loosening of the epiphysis is far more frequent than the total disunion almost exclusively mentioned by writers. Especially is this the case with the femur, wliere in seventeen cases the author only had two in which total separation, with free motion of the inferior epiphysis, was perceived. In both cases reunion from the for- mation of callus and increased length of the extremity resulted. In six other cases tlie separation was only marked by slight mobility, and at a later period by a little angular bend. Secondary separation of the superior epiphysis of the tibia is more frequent than the total separa- tion of that of the primarily diseased femur, and is also far more often total. Separation of the epiphysis can, of course, only occur before its union by bone with the shaft; it is induced by the morbid process attacking the intermediate cartilage. The large abscesses, which gene- rally form at the inner and posterior surface of the thigh, are more rarely accompanied by necrosis, than is stated by authors; nor is the spontaneous communication between the intra- and extra-periosteal collections of pus, nor the puti-id decomposition of the matter so constant as supposed by Klose. The phlebitis of Klose includes two processes—that of thrombosis and that of phlebitis. The diffuse, spreading stoppage of the medullary veins can be most accurately fol- lowed in cases of traumatic origin. When large collaterals are obstructed, the symptoms are very marked—a deep pei'iosteal oedema, a serous effusion into the adjacent articular cavity, are combined with a dirty, pale, doughy, painful swelling of the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue. Should phlebitis ensue, diffuse suppurations appear in the place of the simple oedematous infiltration, the destructive processes of ulcer- ation and mortification almost entirely prevent reparative action, and pyaemia or septicaemia usually result. Causes.—According to tlie author's experience, spontaneous diffuse osteomyelitis is by no means a rare disease. It was preceded, not un- frequently, by over-exertion. All the patients belonged to the poorest class, and were of debilitated, unhealthy constitution; the age varied from thirteen to twenty-five years; in twenty-three patients there were seven females. Active nutrition and relative congestion of the epiphyses form certainly an essential pre-disposing factor, M hich may be increased at any given time by more rapid growth. The femur is attacked far more frequently than the other long bones {"iZ'S^g per cent.), and the left more frequently than the right one (eleven out of seventeen cases). The author has rarely met with cases in Avhich a number of bones were affected; he has almost invariably seen the disease only spread across the joint to the next bone, thus from the femur to the tibia; only in rare cases has he found it affecting distant bones. Hijmptoms and course.—Klose's division into three stages is quite artificial, and must be rejected. Chassaignac and his followers did notIIEPOIIT ON SUUGHRY. 218 sufficiently distiugulali tlio symptoms peculiar to the disease and those dopeudent on Boplica'inia unci pyjpniia, and accordingly gave an untrue representation. One of tlio niost eonstaut and important symptoms of the commeuciug disease is tlio violent, deep-seated pain, generally limited to a distinct spot, but by no means always to the neighbouHiood of the epipliysis; indeed it is not uncommoiily referred to the middle of tlie thigh, or even further. The character of the pain is very variously described by patients ; it is always, however, increased by the least pressure; its continuance for a lengthened period, even after extensive incisions, and its situation deep in tho interior of the bone, are important symptoms. A more or less characteristic functional disturbance is usually observed contemporaneously with the occurrence of the paiu; the extremity can no longer be raised, the patient com- plains of a sensation of great weight, and as if the leg would break when he attempts to raise it. At first, he usually lies in bed stretched out, at a later period almost always flexed. Between the third and eighth day there generally appears a swelling, which is at first indis- tinct and diffuse, and usually placed in the lower third of the thigh, though soon extending in every direction. The surgeon may, however, generally malce out with certainty a doughy, (Edematous infiltration of tiie skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue, and a firm swelling springing from the bone. So far, there has been no increase in the temperature, no inflammatory discoloration: these appear only at a later period, and in many cases not till a gradually enlarging abscess approxitnates to the skin. So long as the acute oedema remains, there is a dirty, earthy paleness, witli more or less markings of the veins. A di9"use abscess may often be discovered at the end of the first, or in the course of the second week ; spontaneous discharge of the matter rarely follows. The afi'ection of the joint does not, as the rule, appear before the end of the second week, and more frequently not till after the third week. An intense fever, sometimes with repeated rigors, mostly with sleeplessness, headache, delirium, loss of appetite, red, dry tongue, &c., soon follows the local pain. A diphtheritic affection of the mouth was only obseiwed in one ease. The uniform course of the fever may be interrupted at any time by rigors, which are excited by embolic closures of vessels, bursting of an abscess into a joint, secondary abscesses, hypostatic inflammatory processes, &c. The whole appearance of the patient shows even in tiie first week the seriousness of the affection. The further course varies, according as the case ends in recovery, and then usually with a very protracted convalescence, or in death from py£emia, septicajmia, or hectic. The appearance of the tissue found on the examination of in- cisions carried down to the periosteum for the discharge of the pus or ichorous matters, varies at different periods of the disease. Separation of the epiphysis occurs most frequently in the tibia, and usually happens in the second month. Its first symptom is for the most part dis- coloration caused by the pressure of the head of the bone; it is associated in many cases with a doughy swelling of the skin ; botli the discoloration and swelling are, as the'rule, located at the inferior part of the popliteal space, and at the front, in the region of the ligamen- turn patelije, there is a saddle-like depression.TttEATMEXT OF OSTEOSIYELITIS. 319 As to the diagnosis, the author cannot agree with those who hold it impossible to recognise the disease till after division of the soft parts ; he therefore recapitulates the symptoms in short once more, and shows that they almost always suffice for a satisfactory diagnosis. He lays special weight on the lustory as a means of distinguishing primary from secondary phlegmon or periostitis. Acupuncture ('Tear-book,' 1862, p. 258) and examination with tlie trochar may, even at an early stage, decide as to the condition of the bone. Treatment.—In opposition to other surgeons, who vehemently recom- mend immediate and free division of the soft parts down to the bone, Demme considers it a rule, that free and deep incisions should never be made during the acute, progressive stage of osteomyelitis diffusa, not until the disease has become stationary or chronic. _ This maxim finds its justification in the clinical experience and pathological researches of the author. Thus, the first indication for treatment is to induce as soon as possible, a more quiescent chronic course, which is a necessary condition for the success of. any ulterior incision. General and local bloodletting, poulticing, and blistering are quite tincalculated to di- minish the acuteness of the process; the author has had no personal experience of cauterisation or of the assiduous use of cold. On the other hand he has had abundant opportunities to observe the decided action of iodine, locally applied, in cases of osteomyelitis at every stage. He employs a solution of iodine, containing sixty to sixty-five grains to the ounce of alchohol (96—98 per cent.) ; it is applied by a brush till an intense, bluish-black colour is produced, and always over a larger space than that of the disease ; he covers it with cotton-wool or wadding, or with a compress soaked in common oil to alleviate the pain; should vesication occur, he uses lead, alum, or opium solutions. The iodine must be painted on at least every second day. The aiithor's experience is yet insufficient to decide as to temporary, subcutaneous evacuations of the pus by means of the trochar. A fundamental part of every treat- ment must be perfect rest of the whole limb, obtained by an immove- able bandage. The general treatment should be at firsb antifebrile, but yet not too active. As soon as the stationary period of the morbid pro- cess has commenced, the second part of the treatment must be initiated by a free, deep division of the soft parts. The aperture must be gene- rally made between the adductors, the gracilis, semimembranosus, and semitendinosus, or between the vastus externus and the biceps. The length of the incision averaged in the author's cases five to twelve inches; the depth must depend upon circumstances. The aperture is best made by cauterisation with the actual cautery, or the zinc paste; the use of the bistoury is objectionable, owing to the greater loss of blood, and the greater danger of pyfemic or septic£emic infection. It will be well, at all events, to cauterise the wound, when the knil'e has been employed. Chlorine and iodiue injections, &e., are afterwards indicated. Numerous facts prove the utility of directly opening the medullary canal by trepanning, in circumscribed suppurative osteomyelitis. The re- sulting necrosis requires the ordinary treatment; the joint-disease, prin- cipally a firm bandage and the local use of iodine; opening the joint can often be avoided. Methodical employment of passive motion is ad»H15P0RT OK SURGEHY. 2-10 misslble only where the epiphysis is perfectly fixed. As to the treatineut of separation of the epiphysis, the prevention of any displacement, the arrest of any pron;ressi\o \vcarin<(-a\vay of tlie fragments—indications which may be fullilhHl hy proirer splints and bandages, though moKt se- curclyby the plaster i)andage—are the conditionw inostfavorablotolibrous, ossifying union. The general treatment during the second period mnst bo tonic and strengthening ; nutritious food, cod-liver oil and iron ; the condition of the digestive organs must be very carefully watched. Amputation must yet be considered one of the means of treatment; performed at a late period during the chronic stage of the osteomyelitis, it presents greater prospect of success, than when the iimb is removed during the acute, progressive stage, as recommended by Chassaignac. Froffiiosis and (luration.—Of the seventeen cases related by the author, thirteen perfectly recovered (76-47 per cent.^. Death resulted twice from pya>mia and twice from exhaustion; in one case it oc- curred so early as the fifteenth day, notwithstanding amputation ; in the three other cases on the tliirty-fourth, seventy-sixth, and one hundred and thirty-eighth day after the commencement of the attack. The prognosis is rendered unfavorable even in the most promising cases by the long duration of the process, and the necrosis which often takes months, or even years, to become complete. The shortest period in which recovery occurred, was ninety-six days, the longest lyo days, calculating only the time from the beginning of the disease to the discharge of the patient. In one case, the necrotic process resulting from osteomyelitis was prolonged for upwards often years. Prof. PiiJia, on the treatment of necrosis li/ operation (' Allg. Wien. Med. Zeitung,' 1863, p. 73, &c.). The author removed in the year 1839, the whole fibula with both epiphyses from a girl of 15, and in another case the whole tibia, for necrosis after acute periostitis ; thecavity left in the first case, though of great size, rapidly filled up, and new bone was formed to a sufficient extent to take the place of the former fibula ; in the second case a steel splint was substituted in place of the tibia, and the patient was thus enabled to walk. In the metatarsus and metacarpus, necrosis is often complicated with osteoporosis; the first and fifth metatarsal bones are those that most often require operative treatment. As a result of inflammation which has been caused hj injury, or arisen spontaneously, the bone enlarges, and the appearances are such, especially in the case of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, that the adjacent bones may be supposed to be diseased ; such a case might be supposed to indicate a Chopart's amputation, the whole anterior part of the foot being apparently implicated. Such errors may be avoided by the careful use of the probe, and by attention to the facf, that the fistulous apertures, however numerous, are situated along the diseased bone. In three cases treated at the military clinic, the first metatarsal bone was found to be much enlarged, in part affected by sclerosis, and covered with osteophytes, in part broken up into larger and smaller fragments; in these cases the whole bone was carefully removed, the periosteum being injured as little as possible, and the great toe preserved. Such an operation is by no means easy, owing to the difficulty of dissecting out the long plantar jirocess of theOPEUATIVB TEEATSIliN'T 01-' NECROSIS. base ot* the bone, aud the danger of wounding the plantar artery; the hitter injury must be most carefully avoided, because it is almost im-^ ])ossible to ligature the vessel owing to the depth and narrowness of the wound, and plugging frustrates the conservative aim of the operation. It is only by keeping witliin the periosteum whilst separating the bone, a proceeding very troublesome in this case, that such a mishap can with certainty be avoided,—tlie subperiosteal method is therefore de- cidedly the one to be adopted. Since, however, the necrosis is quite peculiar in its form, at least has been in tlie six cases which the author has seen, a more simple method, by whicli the very tedious separation of the bone from the scaphoid might be avoided, would probably ansvrer. In all six cases, the excised bone was found to be indurated and thick- ened towards each extremity, at its middle to contain a cavity as large as a nut, in which were fine, granular detritus, and fragments of dead bone. This cavity always communicated with an adjacent fistula. It would probably suflGice to excise this central portion alone, for the rest of the bone, though not healthy, still appears capable of living, and the essential disease, from which the ulceration proceeds, is limited to the cavity; it might be sufficient even, in favorable cases, to merely clear out the canty {ividement of Sedillot). The author intends to try such a simple method in his next case. Necrosis of the jaw, and especially of the lower jaw, is a subject of great interest. Circumscribed partial necrosis requires simple extrac- tion ; the only point to be mentioned is, that the operation should, aa the rule, be performed from the interior of the mouth, aud therefore be commenced with detaching the gum, the exception being where large, external fistulas render it useless to spare the skin of the face. The side of the face is not uncommonly so much swollen in cases of very limited necrosis, that the whole half of the bone is considered to be quite dead, and the error is not discovered till the bone has been laid bare. Such an error might have most unfortunate results for the patient. Extensive incisions might be made, or even a large flap dissected up, before the slight extent of the disease is discovered. The simplest and least injurious manner of determining the extent of the disease is by de- tachment of the mucous covering, a proceeding which does not in the least compromise the completion of the operation. A soldier, set. 24 years, was admitted into the military clinic, with ])eriostitis of the lower jaw, said to have been caused by the extraction of a carious molar tooth. There were two apertures in the neck, through wliich the bone could be felt to be bare to a considerable extent; the disease made rapid progress, and in a short time the whole of the right side of the lower jaw had become so swollen, that no doubt seemed to remain that the necrosis extended as far as the joint. A most careful examination appeared to show the necessity of dividing the jaw in front of the second bicuspid, and exarticulating. In accordance, however, with the princi))le just given, the operation was commenced by separating the gum from the outer side of the alveolar process ; the periosteum was also dissected off" as far as the angle of the jaw ; it was then clear that the necrosis was limited to the external lamella and a little part of the alveolar process, so that the operation ended in a simple extraction ofUEPOllT ON SUllGEUy. these parts, the continuity of tlie bono being perfectly preserved, llecovery followed in the simplest way, and without the least disfigure- ment. If, on the other hand, the necrosis had extended as far as the external swelling appeared to indicate, and to more than the outer lamella,—if, moreover, its limits had not yet become distinct,—so as to necessitate the removal of tlie whole of that portion of the jaw, the next step would have been to detach the gum and periosteum from the inner surface as far as the lower margin of tiie bone, carrying the separation of the periosteum and muscular attachments up the ascending ramus, and then to saw through the bone anteriorly with the chain saw. The piece is then to be dragged forwards by means of forceps, any parts still adherent to be separated, and the ramus again divided, or exarticulation may be completed without difficulty. The whole half of the jaw can in this way be removed without any external incision, and without injury to the surrounding soft parts. This method of intrabuccal exarticulation and resection (Lai'ghi) is the very perfec- tion of operative surgery; it may also be applied to the upper jaw. Little or no deformity is caused by such an operation, for the soft parts remain after removal of the bone almost in their natural position. Un- fortunately such an operation is scarcely applicable to any but cases of necrosis ; in this affection it is indisputably indicated. The author is not in favour of delaying the operation very long, for the patient loses strength, and the necrosis spreads further and further. Among other interesting cases one is related of phosphorus disease, in which Pitha succeeded in removing the whole of both upper jaws, without making any external incision, and without producing any sub- sequent deformity. Osteitis.—F. Loriuser, on the treatment (' "Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1862, p. 641). M. Verneuil, case of acute osteomyelitis, treated by incision, and amputation at the shoulder-joint ('Gaz. d. H6p.,' 1863, pp. 74, 87, 88). W. Eoser, on periostitis and osteomyelitis ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1863, p. 281). Necrosis.—T. Smith, on acute necrosis of growing bones (' Brit. Med. Jour.,' 1863, ii, p. 51, &c.). Dr. Voss, almost total necrosis of the lower jaw in a child, successful removal ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1863, ii, 194). Exostosis.—M. Maisouneuve, case of exostosis of the ethmoid (* Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 458). Tumours.—M. Legouest, resection of the lower part of the fibula, &,c. ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 519). E. Ne'laton, on myeloid tumours (ib., 1863, p. 2j). ]SIr. Paget and Mr. Syme, on removal of the scapula ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1863, i, p. 6 ; ' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' viii, 951). Caries.—M. Notta, on the use of the "liqueur de Villate" ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 172). T . Lateral curvature of the spme.—Pamphlets by C. Pravaz (Pans, V. Masson), J. Wildberger (Leipz., Weigel), and.E.-R. Nitzsche (2nd ed., Dresden, Klemm). W. Adams ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 527, 579,) &c. H. H. "Bigg, spinal curvature, the mechanical appliances for its successful treatment (Loud., Churchill). Dr. Eu- lenburg, lateral curvature of the spine, its origin, prevention, andCOilPOUIsi; I'KACTUllE 01-' THE I'EMUll. 328 cure (' Jour. f. Kiuderkr.,' vol. xxxviii, p. i), and cases of scoliosis and of displacement of the scapula (ib., p. 322). Potfs ciirvaiure.-M.-MM, on the treatment of abscess from caries of the vertebne (' Mem. de la Soc. de Chir.,' v. 39.5)- J- ^- ^004- mechanical appliances in Pott's disease ('Amer. Med. Inn., i«02, 1, 79, &c.). Case of operation ('Edinb. Med. Jour.,' vn, 781). Actual cautery in disease of the cervical vertebrae (ib., vni, 135). Spina bifida.—C. Eindfleisch ('Arch. f. path. Anat.,' xxvii 137)- M. Giraldes (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 477, &c.). M. Depaul ( Gaz. d. H6p.,' 1863, p. 13). I'BACTUBES. r.'H. Hamilton, 'A Practical Treatise on Practurea and Disloca- tions,' 2nd ed., pp. 750, Philad., Blanchard and Lea, 1863. In a case of compound fracture of the leg with simple fracture of the corresponding thigh, Prof. Pitha determined on preserving the limb; chloroform having been administered, he covered the wound with a little charpie, and at once applied the splints. He strongly recommends such a plan of treatment; no time should be lost with cold lotions, ice, or leeches; the splints act as the best antiphlogistic, and at once relieve the pain of the injury (' AUg. "Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863, p. 237). Dr. Biederlack has somewhat modified an old method of applying counter-extension in fractures of the femur ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, p. 509). A well-padded girdle of leather or elastic material, from which on both sides thigh-straps pass round the inguinal and gluteal regions, as in a truss, is buckled round the hips. On each side of the girdle is a ring, through which a cord is passed, and then fastened to the side of the bedstead. The patient bears such a bandage very well, provided a thick layer of wadding is placed under the thigh-straps. H. Davies gives a description of Dr. Gordon Buck's extension appa- ratus, and of Dr. N. Smith's anterior splint, as employed in some of the American military hospitals for compound fractures of the femur from gunshot wounds (' Lane.,' 1863, i, 629). B. B. Miles records four cases of gunshot fractures of the femur, treated with Smith's anterior splint ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1863, ii, pp. 14, 26). E. G. "Waters records some cases of gunshot fractures of the thigh treated conservatively (ib., 1863, i, pp. I/O. 184). " The writer regrets that he is not able to give the exact number of amputations performed for this injury, but is able to state positively that only one patient recovered of the many who underwent the operation. In this case the operation was performed in the upper third of the thigh." There were three cases of resection of the femur, but " all died within a fortnight after the operation, and the autopsy in each case revealed the melancholy fact that nature had made no attempt at reparation." Three died out of fourteen cases, in which an attempt was made to save the limb; nine were discharged from hospital, already using their injured limbs in standing, and walkiag with considerable facility. " The remaining two of the fourteen con- tinue under treatment. One of them goes out daily on crutches, theIIEPOIIT 0\ SURGKUY, otiicr is coutiued to bed witli a slight disclmrgo. The uuiou iu both is perfect, their general hcaltli excellent, their spirits buoyant, and it requires no excess of professional confidence to be convinced that only a short time will elapse before both patients will be completely re- stored to lieiilth, and will enjoy valuable use of their limbs." He speaks in very enthusiastic terms of Smith's anterior splint. D. C. Peters ('Amcr. Med. Tim.,' 186.3, 233) and J. T. Hodgen (ib., p. 208) are both in favour of conservative treatment in compound fracture of the shaft of tlie femur. The latter states that "since the 3oth day of September, 1861, there have been received at this hospital (City General Hospital, St. Louis, Mo.) sixty-five cases of gunshot fractures of the shaft of the os femoris. Of these, eighteen have died, four remain under treatment (two of whom are waliung witii canes, the other two iu a fair way to recover), and forty-three have recovered, and left the hospital with good limbs, except one, and that one has a limb far better than ' Palmer's best' substitute. It will be observed, that the per-centage of mortality is less than twenty-eight, thus giving better results so far as life is concerned than amputation of the thigh would do, besides preserving useful limbs. These injuries were not all inflicted by conical leaden bullets, a part being by grape, canister, and the round leaden bullet. From my observation I would say gunshot fractures of the shaft of the femur made by conical leaden bullets do not demand amputation, except when associated with injury of the nerve or artery." D. P. Smith describes a new splint for fractures of the femur ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1863, i, 111). He says, "in my cases of shattered limbs, I use a slat of pine wood extending from the crest of the ilium to just beyond the sole of the foot. It should be about two inches wide and half an inch thick. A similar stick runs up on the inside of the limb to the perineum. Join the two by a cross-piece below the sole of the foot, and by a cross-piece passing in front of the thigh just below the perineum; suspend the limb in this by separate strips of bandage passing under the limb, then over the two sides of the cradle, and the ends tying in a bow-knot; suspend the splint from above, so that the Avhole limb and its dressings may swing clear of the bed; change the tension of this or that muslin strip until the limb lies easy; lead the cords that suspend the splint a little downwards so as to make any necessary extension ; raise the foot of the bed an incb or two to furnish counter-extension if needed ; and you have my idea. In no other way can an exsected knee or gunshot fracture of the femur be so completely cared for. One will see at a glance that the limb can be most com- pletely cleansed and dressed without stirring it in the slightest." * M. Duparcque, on inequality in the length of tiie upper limbs in reference to fractures (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 55). E. Gurlt, statistics ('Arch, f Klin. Chir.,' iii, 393). M. Gosselin, on fractures in Y, or wedge-shaped ('Mem. de la Soc. de Chir.,' v, 147). M. Bouvicr, on the immoveable baudage (ib., p. 175). Mr. Spence, case of fracture M ith dislocation of the humerus ('Edinb. Med. Journal,' viii, 1084); * It 13 worth remark, that the ai)pariitU3 here reconinieiKlcd is the bed i:i miniatnre, that was long suice used by Corrigan in fever cases. —T.225 UKDUCTlOxN- OF DISLOCATIONS. Discussion on guushot fractures ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 186,3, 1, P- '^Uni^iiied and hudJy miitedfraclurcs.-lsL Deuuce (' Meui. de la Soc. dc Chir.,' V, Kov). Ciise under Dittel cured by rubbing the ends together, Ac'CSpit. Zeit.,' 1863, p. 114)- Resection ol a badly united fracture of the clavicle (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 186.3, p. 449)- Jj^^'- Luiuniczer, resection and the metallic suture ('Wien. Med. VV o- chenschr.,' 1863, pp. 673, 691). Mr. Spence, fracture of the necic ot tlie .v(Y//>«7«,\vith post-mortem examination('Bdmb. Med. Journ., vm, 10S3). B.-aequard, on trepliiniug in fracture of the spine ('Lane.,' 1863, 1, 477).* H. A. Potter, on fractures of the spine ('Amer. Med. Tmi., 1863, i, 17). M. JMelays, case of fracture of the clavicle by muscular contraction ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 6S4). , Joints—M.. Bouvier, on white swellings (' Mem. de la Soc. de Chir., V, 175). D. C. Peters, on gunshot wounds ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 155). J. T. Hodgen, new splint for gunshot fractures of the femur and tibia (ib., p. 169), L. A. Sayre, new operation for artificial hip- joint in bony anchylosis ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, u, 232). J. Hilton, on disease of the stemo-chivictihir joints ('Lane.,' 1863, i, 85); aud on that of the coccyrjeal joints (ib., 1S62, ii, 471). K Barwell, lectiu-es on disease of the 7*i>-joint (ib., 557, &c.). E. Davies, on disease of the hip-joint (ib., 644). L. A. Sayre, on tenotomy in hip disease ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, i, 219). L. Labbe, on coxalgiu (pp. 140, and 3 pis., Paris, A. Delahayej. W. Busch, on contractures of tlie hip and Icnee (' Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iv, 50). Prof. Schuh, on disease of the knee ('Spit. Zeit.,' 1863, p. 122). DISLOCATIOIfS. Prof. W. Busch has published some contributions to our knowledge of the mechanism aud methods of reduction of dislocations, founded upon cases occurring at the Bonn Clinic ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iv, i). It has become, during the last few years, more and more certain that the difficulties of reduction dependent on the muscles have been much over-estimated, aud on the other hand, that those arising from tension of the capsule have not been sufficiently appreciated. No doubt the muscles may oppose enormous resistance ; it is indeed for this reason that chloroform is of so much value in attempts at reduc- tion. Thanks to this agent, all difficulty caused by active muscular contraction is now entirely removed, and thus the reduction of disloca- tions has been very much facilitated. Yet, under the use of chloroform there still remains the resistance which arises from the tension of muscles, so displaced from their usual position, that their points of attachment are at a greater distance from one another than in the normal condition; for this reason it has been recommended to bring the limb as much as possible into such a position as would relax the tense muscles. The tension, however, which is caused by the elasticity and stretching of the muscles, never presents any very * See also 'Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Kcv.,' vol. xxix, p. .:!78, niul Schmidt's ' .Tahrb.,' vol. 115, p. 332. More recently still, E. Ourlt liii» pubiitilied a very full hc- count of the jn-esent state of this question in his work on fractures, vol. 2, ])p.'l72-lSl). 1.3IIUPOET ON surgehy. 226 formidable obstacle; indeed, in some coses, reduction is more readily cH'ccted by metliods in which the muscles which are already tense ai*e rendered yet more so. Finally, in some rare cases, great importance ha^> been assijj;ncd to the resistance of certain muscles, which were supposed to liold the dislocated portion like a button in a button-hole; such a supposition was induced by cases in which reduction could not bo ell'ected, even by violent force, and in which, after death, the head of the dislocated bone was found to be held between tense muscles; thu.^, in a case of luxation of the femur backwards, where the head was placed between the pyriformis and obturator. Further experimental researches have, however, shown that such muscular button-holes are for the mo.st part imaginary, and that the obstacle to reduction really depends on very different parts, the capsule and its accessory ligaments. AVere the pyriformis and obturator to impede reduction, great force would rupture them, owing to their tenseness. The extension applied does not, however, act on them, because its force is broken by the resistance of the ligaments, a resistance which it cannot overcome. In most un- reduced dislocations failure has been owing to the use of unfit methods, and not to the resistance of the muscles. Every one knows the case of Lisfranc, in which such a button-hole was supposed to be the obstacle, and where, after death, the use of a proper method effected reductiojn with the greatest ease. On the other hand, it cannot be denied that, in some dislocations, the resistance of the capsule to exten- sion in a certain direction is increased by the tension of the muscles, as in dislocation of the hip on to the pubis, when the head lies under the psoas and iliacus. This muscle resists extension of the extremity in the direction of the longitudinal axis of the body, just in the same manner as the capsule, an artificial difficulty, however, which can be avoided by the employment of a proper method. For the very reason that we can now eliminate almost all the resist- ance of the muscles by the use of chloroform, much more attention has been recently paid to the tension of tlie capsule and the form of the bones as obstacles to reduction. Since Malgaigne pointed out the im- portance of recognising the spot at which the capsule is ruptirred,Koser (in his revision of the theory of luxations) and Weber (in his ' Chirurgisclic Erfahrungen') have treated this matter with great thoroughness, and have applied the results, at which they arrived, to practice. Quito recently a complete essay on the most difficult dislocations to reduce, those of the hip, has been published by Gelle in Paris; he, however, after the usual custom, has entirely neglected the researches of German in- vestigators. Prof. Busch has himself made a considerable number of ex- periments on the subject, and has in general arrived at the same result as Eoser, at the old principle of Galen and J. L. Petit, that the reduction of a dislocation is most easy when the dislocated bone follows the same course, but in the opposite direction, to the one along which it originally passed, and that the most favorable position of the limb for reduction is that in which the displacement occurred: in respect to the treatment of dislocation of the femur, he found some modifications of Eoser's principles advisable. *' On the morning of the 12th February, 1861, a young man appliedIIESISTAXCE OJ? THE LIGAMENTS. at the Cliuie, who, during an epileptic attack iu the coui-so of the previous night, had had a recurrence of a dislocation of the shoulder. It liad been dislocated for the first time a year previously in Australia, by a iall, and he had since had a couple of recurrences (he varied in his account of the number). The position of the arm vras the usual cha- racteristic one; the displaced head was close to the coracoid process, which, as ho was thin, could be readily felt. As reduction was expected to be very easy, owing to tlie frequent recurrences, it was attempted by the method of Mothe-Rust, and without the use of chloroform. The failure of tlie traction thus exercised was referred to the awkward move- ments of the patient; he was accordingly fully narcotised, and the attempt repeated. Another failure was the result, although the process was carried out by well-skilled assistants ; indeed it was now found that even great force was insufficient to firmly fix the scapula, and that the arm could be scarcely at all raised without changing the position of that bone. Thus it appeared clear that the humerus was held with uncommon firmness by the slit in the capsule, and probable that the greater tension of the latter was owing to the head of the humerus having passed to a greater distance from the glenoid cavity than on former occasions. After repeated but vain attempts, a trial was made with Astley Cooper's method, and as this also was unsuccessful, the patient being still under the influence of chloroform, the arm was ex- tended horizontally by the apparatus of Schneider-Mennel. Tet the head did not move in the least from its place, although the force was increased by means of the apparatus to such a degree that I believed I coidd not go further without danger of rupturing the muscles or vessels. " It was now evident that tliis enormous difficulty was owing to some peculiarity, for on previous occasions the same luxation had been reduced without any extraordinary trouble. At all events nothing was to be gained from force, and from the ordinary methods. We evidently had to try some other plan, or send the patient home with the disloca- tion unreduced. Fortunately we were able, in this case, to approxi- mately determine the position of the rupture in the capsule. His friends had, frequently and distinctly observed that iu his epileptic attacks the arms moved in such a way as to drive the elbows violently backwards. Now, since the head of the humerus had slipped out of tlie capsule in such a movement, it was probable that the aperture was placed more on the anterior than under side of the capsule. Moreover, tlie outer lip of this slit must now be so closely stretched over the neck of the dislocated humerus, that traction could not release the head from ats position. It became clear to me that reposition would become more easy if the slit in the capsule could be made to gape, so that the head could glide through it. " To effect this, I let the now conscious patient get on the operatino- table, and place himself in a horizontal position; I now placed my rio-ht forcarni under the back of his arm, just below his shoulder, as a fulcrum and let an assistant press the patient's arm powerfully backwards. If my calculation as to the position of the rupture in the capsule and the manner in which it caused the difficulty, were correct, the outer lip ofniil'OllT ON .SUlKiEKV. the tear would bo raised upwards by tlie dislocated bone itseU", owing to this backward inoliou of tlic arm over the fulcruin, llie slit would gape, and as large a space as possible would be left between its outer lip and the margin of the glenoid cavity or the inner lip. On tliis i)ro- ceediiig being put into force, tlie bead immediately left its previous position, and on slight rotation of tlie arm inwards, slipped into the articular cavity. Thus Avhat had not been possible by the use of gi-eat force, and when the patient was perfectly narcotised, now succeeded with the greatest ease, and when t he patient Avas perfectly conscious. It has often been noticed before that it has been quite child's ])biy, on the use of a proper method, to reduce dislocations which had previous!}' resisted the use of great force. It is very extraordinary, and, so far as I know, has not been pi-eviously observed, that after several recur- rences of luxation of the humerus the slit in the capsule should hold the dislocated bone so tightly that any traction, according to the ordinary methods, only appeared to tix it more firmly. As already mentioned, there must have been something peculiar, for in the course of last year this patient twice dislocated the humerus, once in swimming, and once in an epileptic attack, and botb times reduction was very easy, once by the lever-movement just described, and tbe other time by extension and countei'-extensiou." iSince in this case one lip of tbe tear in the capsule was raised from the other with the view of dilating the aperture as much as possible, the author endeavoured to test the same principle in other luxations. Unfortunately the production of shoulder and elbow dislocations on the subject is ordinarily attended with such extensive tears in the capsule, as to render reduction extremely easy. In only a few cases was the luxation firm enough for the purpose. In respect to dislocations of the shoulder, experience has already anticipated theory; in the method of Motbe-Kust, so often employed, the head of the bone raises the lip of the rupture from the glenoid cavity, owing to the elevation of the arm, when the rupture has taken place at the lower part of the capsule. Dislocation under the coracoid process was always readily reduced on the subject, by raising the arm as directly upwards as possible; when the capsule was ruptured in front, reduction was facibtated by carrying the arm backwards, and at the same time raising it. On the subject it mattered little whether slight traction in such a position, with subse- quent depression of the arm, or the lever movement already described, followed by rotation, was employed. The author was able, in two cases, to confirm Eoser's statement that byi^er-extension, by which dis- location of the elbow backwards is most easily produced, was also the position in which reduction was most readily efl'ected. The value of a method of reduction may be best tested in cases of dislocation of the femur. The dislocation is most easily produced on tbe subject by fixiug the pelvis firmly, flexing the thigh at the hip and knee, and with a sudden cftbrt adducting, and at the same time rotating the extremity inwards. Thus the neck of the femur presses on the margin of the acetabulum as a fidcruin, whilst the bead is raised and violently forced out, so as to rupture the postero-inferior part of tbe capsule. The head always pa8^^ed out below the tendon of tlie obturator internus.DISLOCATIOX OF THE KKArUli. owing to the great flexion iieeessary to rupture tlio capsule. It depends on the size of the tear, and on the force exerted in carrying the limb down after the production of the dislocation, whether the head remains close to the point of rupture, or whether it is driven to a greater or less distance, even on to the ilium; sometimes an ischiatie, sometimes an iliac dislocation is the result. Gelle has asserted that a luxation of the lemur may be most easily produced on the subject by flexion without adduction, but the author has never been able to succeed in such a way. The capsule does not always tear in the same direction ; the rupture is sometimes just at, or close to, the edge of tlie acetabulum ; at other times tliere'is a short tear close to the acetabulum, from which a second passes outwards, parallel to the neck of the femur. The author has never seen sucli a rupture as that described by Gelle, in which the capsule remains entire near the pelvis, and is only torn at its attach- ment to the neck of tlie femur. Experience has already show-n that in respect to luxations backwards, it matters not whether the head is placed higher or lower on the pelvis, the method of reduction by trac- tion in the direction of the longitudinal axis of the body must be rejected. Such a method would only answer where the capsule was extensively torn. AVhere, however, as is usually the case, the rupture is only to a moderate extent, its outer lip is applied firmly to the neck of the femur, and the front of tlie capsule, which is at the same time uninjured, is very tense. On the subject it can be easily proved that extension causes ijicreased tension of the capsule, but does not approximate the head of the bone to the acetabulum. On the other hand, if the thigh is flexed to a right angle or more, the head passes down to the rupture, and may, in a favorable case, then only require slight rotation outwards to efl'ect reduction; in other cases it must be also slightly raised, which may generally be readily eflfected bj' a little extension, in a direction at right angles to tlie longitudinal axis of the body. Reduction is, how- ever, miich facilitated by adduction, which forces the rupture to gape, tlie head or neck of the bone raising the lower lip of the tear from the edge of the acetabulum. Thus in one experiment, after the thigh had been flexed, a small subcutaneous wound of the capsule was made with a tenotomy knife, and the head forced out by violent adduction, and then driven as much as possible upwards. The author now proceeded to reduction ; he bent the thigh on the body to somewhat more than a right angle, then adducted, finally rotated the limb outwards, and stretched it; the luxation was reduced without the least traction. Having again dislocated the same limb, he bent the thigh not quite to a right angle, and then rotated it outwards ; the head did not slip in, and still remained at some distance from the cotyloid ridge. The pelvis was now fixed, and extension applied to the thigh, flexed at aright angle ; it required very considerable traction, indeed so great as to raise the pelvis, notwithstanding the efi"orts of the assistant, before the head could be replaced by rotation outwards. Thus flexion with adduction is the readiest method; simple flexion required the use of considerable traction. Adduction raises the head from the edge of the acetabulum, so that a little rotation outwards causes at once reduction. Flexion with adduction was empirically used, and recommended by Dospres ;ItKl'OUT ON SUIIOKIIY. 230 the addiictiou should, however, he carried to a greater degree liiaa re- commended hy him ; the thigh should generally ho flexed to rather more than a right angle. The capsule is always ruptured on the inner side of the ilio-femoral ligament, in eases of dislocation forwards on to tlie puhis, or into tlio foramen ovale; hotli these luxations are caused essentially in the same manner, and the difl'ereut position of the head depends on the degree of adduction of tlie thigli, and the point of rupture of the capsule. Both are produced on tlio suhjeet hy hyperexteusion, ahduc- tion, and rotation outwards. In some rare cases the dislocation into the foramen ovale is secondary to the ischiatic form produced hy flexion and adduction, ahduction immediately ensuing, and driving the head forwards round the lower margin of the acetahulum. In tlic luxation on to the puhis the head either remains close to the spot at which the capsule is ruptured, a little to the inner side of the anterior inferior spinous process, and therefore, strictly speaking, not on the puhis, as correctly remarked hy Malgaigne, or it passes further inwards, even hehind the l^soas-iliacus, the nerves, and vessels. Experience has already condemned direct extension in the latter cases, where the limb is extended or slightly flexed and rotated outwards; such traction, indeed, renders both the psoas and the capsule more tense, lieduction by flexion, even to an acute angle, has been recently recommended, and it is true that by this means the outer lip of the capsular tear, which is formed by the ilio- femoral ligament, is relaxed; where the head is close to the anterior inferior spinous process, flexion, aided perhaps by a little abduction, forces it to the edge of the acetabulum; but where it is placed really on the pubis, flexion presses it still further behind the os pubis; it is necessary in such a case to use sufliicient extension in a dii'ection at right angles to the longitudinal axis of the body, to raise the head over the pubis. It may be laid down as a general principle that in both varieties of suprapubic luxation the method of reduction by abduction, hyperexteusion, and rotation outwards, is to be preferred to that by angular flexion. It is not necessary to make any difference in the method of reduction employed in dislocations forwards ; just as in those backwards, the higher or lower position of the head is of little import- ance, and accordingly the method just recommended for the luxation on to the OS pubis answers for that iuto the foramen ovale, except that in the latter the abduction should be somewhat more forcible. _ Of course, in the rare cases where the latter form is secondary to an ischiatic dis- location, the first point will be to reproduce the latter form. Accord- ing to the author's experiments, the easiest way of reducing dislocations of the femur may be formulated as follows:—i. Dislocation backwards, iliac or ischiatic; flex the thigh to rather more than a right angle, adduct it till the knee reaches somewhat over the opposite side of the body, and then rotate outwards. (2) Dislocation forwards, supra or infra-pubic ; abduct the thigh, rotate it somewhat outwards, and carry it into hypercxtcnsion, then rapidly rotate ihwards and place it straight. A.n athletic farmer's-man had, six days before his admission into the Clinic, dislocated the left thigh backwards by a fall from a considerable height. Tiic limb was moderately flexed and much rotated inwards, butDISLOCATION OF THE IIUMEUUS. 231 little shortened; the head appeared to be located on the edge of the os ilium. At three different times attempts at reduction had been already made, both with extension and flexion to an acute angle. When chloro- form had been administered, the thigh was flexed to rather more than a right angle, adducted and rotated outwards; but although the head of the femur rose considerably during adduction, it would not slip in during rotation outwards, but returned to its abnormal position. An assistant now placed his forearm under the knee, the thigh was again flexed and strongly adducted, the assistant somewhat raised the limb, and theu reduction was at once effected by rotation outwards. The author also relates a case, in which repeated attempts had been made to reduce a dislocation of the shoulder without success. The patient was an old, but athletic countryman, the head was placed some- what to the inner side of the coracoid process. The author first tried extension both in the horizontal position and with the arm carried vertically upwards; as these failed, he had the arm raised to a hori- zontal position by an assistant, he himself placed his left hand, as a fulcrum, on the back of the upper arm just below the shoulder, seized with his right hand the patient's forearm and carried it forcibly back- wards ; he then rotated rapidly inwards, and the dislocation was reduced without the least difficulty. Having examined the influence of the capsule in regard to reduction, the author proceeded to trace its connection with the position of the luxated limb. In respect to luxations of the femux", it is already known that the muscles which have become tense owing to change in position, exercise no influence in determining the position of the thigh on the pelvis. In dislocation backwards, the author found the quadratus, gemeUi, obturator, pyriformis, either very tense, or ruptured, whilst in front only the tensor vaginfe femoris and the rectus appeared to be stretched; he divided all these muscles without in the least chxinging the degree of flexion, adduction, or rotation j the position of the limb is dBtermined by the capsule. The same is the case in respect to disloca- tion on to the pubis; section of the psoas-iliacus does not influence the position. It appeared probable that in the shoulder the muscles would, at all events, modify the position; but in the dislocation downwards, and forwards, although part of the deltoid, the supra- and infra-spinatua were tense, yet their division did not diminish the abduction of the arm. The author concludes his paper with the relation of a curious case of dislocation of the shoulder. A porter, carrying a heavy load on his left shoulder down some steps, stumbled and fell. Owing to violent pain in his arm, he at once hastened to the Clinic. He arrived there with the left upper arm raised upwards by the side of the head, on which the fore arm rested, whilst he held with his right hand the left one near the right ear. The arm could be readily lowered, and as it approached the chest, the symptoms of a luxation downAvards became distinct; the head was in the axilla just at the lower border of the glenoid cavity. The patient almost immediately begged the bystanders to let his arm alone; he then with a violent ettbrt slung it up to its former position. Ho was induced to lower it himself, but the pain was so violent thjit in about a mjnute he throw it up again. To allow such232 itKi'onT ON si ufiratY. free motion of the nnn, tlie capsule must have been i-uptured to a eou- siderable extent. Chlorolbrm was not administered ; tiie patient was seated on the ground, the head inclined somewhat to tlie right nide, ho that the arm could alno he brought somewhat towards tlie same side from its erect position, gentle traction Avith one hand followed and the reduction was effected. In a supplementarr note, ho mentions two further cases of ischiatic luxation of the femur, in which the method by flexion, adduction and rotation outwards, was employed; both were reduced with the greatest ease in a few seconds. M. Maisoniicuvp, researclies on Hie meclianim of cUslocalions of ihc jnio ('L'union Med.,' 1863; and 'Schmidt's Jalirb.,' vol. 119, ]). 71). This dislocation is not uufrequently produced by some accidental cause, such as gaping, its symptoms are striking, and its reduction somewhat difficult, yet its experimental study has been hitherto neglected, its pathological anatomy imperfectly known, and theories widely at variance with the truth have gained credit. The author has succeeded in effect- ing this lesion on the subject; after some practice he gained such skill as to enable him to produce it at least forty times, both in male and female, young and aged subjects. He imitated the three motions which ai'e now considered to cause it. Tlie lower jaw was first pressed forcibly down, causing the condyles to glide on the articidar eminences; then followed that motion which drives the condyles over them, and which is effected by a spasmodic contraction of the external pterygoid muscles or by external force. The energetic contraction of the eleva- tion of the inferior maxilla, which should then ensue, was imitated, so as to fix the dislocated parts in their abnormal position. It is necessary on the subject to fix the head and to press the jaw- repeatedly and violently downwards, until the muscles become yielding. Then it is kept down by means of the two thumbs, whilst the tips of the middle and index fingers are placed on the rami below the condyles, so as to press the jaw strongly forwards. One condyle usually passes at a time before the eminentia articularis. When both condyles have passed forwards, the chin must be pressed upwards for a time ; the dislocation is then often as unyielding as during life, presenting considerable diffi- culty in reduction. Patholor/ical anatomy.—The condyles are in front of the transverse I'oot of the zygoma; the coronoid processes arc completely surrounded by the tendons of the temporal muscles ; they are situated below, and scarcely ever touch, the zygomatic process; they do not in any way impede reduction, as supposed by Monro, Nelaton, and others. The capsular ligament is tense, but not ruptured; the external lateral ligament is tense and passes from behind forwards, instead of from before backwards ; the internal, lateral, and stylo-maxillary ligaments show considerable tension, which is increased by elevation of the chin. The interarticular ligaments arc attached to and follow the motions of the condyles. The temporal muscles are only stretched; the niasseters and external pterygoids are moderately tense; the internal very much relaxed. lirthietion.—To trace ont its difficulties, the author, in a series ofArTKV.-TltK.VTMKXT Ol' KXCISIONS. experiments, divided the coronoid processes at their base, the zygomatic processes, opened the front of the capsuUir lisameuts, all without effect; on dividing, however, simply the stylo-inaxiilary and internal and late- ral ligaments, with the posterior fibres of the external ligament, the least pressure sulBced to effect reduction. He then proceeded to ex- amine the dill'ereut methods of reduction; he found blows on the cheeks useless; pressure with the thumbs on the back-teeth, combined with elevation of the chin, only succeeded a few times; depression of the chin, at the same time that the thumbs pressed away the masseters from the interior of tlie mouth was rather more successful; depression of the eliin and pressure 0]i the coronoid processes from before backwards^ with the thumbs in the mouth, effected reduction constantly and with ease. Sucli a method also appears most rational, for the pressure on the coronoid processes is transmitted directly to the condyles, and the ligaments, which form the principal impediment, are previously relaxed as much as possible by the depression of the chin. Prof. Streubel, on the difHculties in the reduction of recent traumatic luxations ('Pi-ag. Tiertelj.,' 1863, iv, 59). B. Bnins (ib., 1863, ii, i). ^fr. Higgin-son, dislocation and fracture of the sjiine, displacement reduced by moderate extension under chloroform ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, ii, 499). H. Demme, dislocation of one half of the pelvis (' Schweiz. Zeitschr.,' i, 290). E. Ancelet, on dislocations of the sternum ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 257). M. Morel-Lavallee, sub-acromial dis- location of the clavicle (ib., 1863, pp. 103, 298). F. H. Hamilton, unreduced dislocation of acromial end of clavicle—use of arm perfect ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 193). J. Bell, on the nomenclature of scnpulo-lnmeral luxations (' Ediu. Med. Journ.,' viii, J004). Dr, Garms, a new method of reducing dislocations of the shoulder (' Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1863, p. 181). M. Poulet, on the diagnosis of incomplete luxation inwards of the elbow ('Gaz. d. Hop./ 1863. p. 343).) Dr. Hahn ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 119, p. 74). M. Cbassaignac, dislocation of the 7(ff;?^? backwards ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 463). M. Dolbeau, luxation of i\\Q femur into the foramen ovale ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, pp. 425, 439). M. Fortin, on the diagnosis of dislocation of the femur in young children ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 698). T. O.Ward, dislo- cation of the knee ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863,' i, 113). Dr. Gaulke, vertical dislocation oi paiella (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, p. 108). EXCISIOK. J\rr. B. Holt has found extension by straps of plaster and a weight to give most satisfactory results in cases of excision of the head of the femur. He adopted a similar plan in a case in which he had excised the elbow by a single longitudinal incision ('Lane.,' 1863, i, 38). " After the operation the limb was extended in the following manner :— A long strip of plaster was carried up on each side of the forearm, leaving a loop beyond the hand, and a piece of stick being inserted in the loop, so as to prevent the hand from being compressed; a bag of sand of three pounds weight was attached to the stick, so as to keep the arm on the stretch and the cut ends of the bones apart. As the patient complained after a day or two of the drag on the shoulder, a23-1. IIKI'OIIT ON fiUKOKRY. piece of plaster una attaclied to tbo upper part of the humerus, and fastened by a bandage to tlio bead of tbc bed, so as to keep up counter- extension, and Iio was thou perfectly eawy. After the operation the condition of the nrin was most satisfactory, tlie ends of the bones being well separated, and the amount of suppuration small. No pain what- ever in the part Avas complained of by the jmtient. Unfoi'tuuatcly the case terminated fatally from tuberculosis; but so far as the treatment of the elbow went, everything was most satisfactory, tlie patient being perfectly easy, and the external incision healing rapidly." Discussion on subperiosteal operations ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 18(5.3, P- ^9',f &c.) li. Seuftlebeu, on the indications, the process of liealiiig, aiid the after-treatmeut ('Arch, f. Klin. Ciiir.,' iii, 79). A. Liicke, a collec- tion of all the resections performed by B. Langeubeck at the Berlin Clinic (ib., p. 291). S. B. lladcliile, on the use of drainage ('Arner. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 60). J. Speuce, on excision of the elbow by a longitudinal incision ('Ediub. Med. Journ.,' viii, 10,33). D. P. Smith, excision of the head of the femur many months after a gunshot-wound; recovery ('Amer. Med. Tim.,'vii, 13). T. Demel, on excision of the hip (' AV'ieu. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 440). T. W. Crosse, excision of the knee in children ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 210). T. Smith, Clinical lectui'e on resection of the knee-joint in children ('Med. Tim. aud Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 241). M. Verneuil, excision of the knee, in a case of gunshot injury (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 665). AV. M. Clarke, exci- sion of the knee-joint—is it a justifiable operation ? (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 337). H. Hancock, on excision of the ankle ('Lane.,' 1863, i, 142). J. C. Johnson, case of resection of ankle-joint for com- pound dislocation ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 234). W. Canniff, case of resection of the ankle-joint ('Brit. Amer. Journ.,' iii, 170). AMPUTATION. D. P. Smith recommends a method of amputating the leg, which in its results is essentially the same as the process by a single outer flap long since reconnnended by Sedillot ('M6d. Operat.,' 2nd edit., vol. i, p. 444). He says—"The multitude of amputations below the knee which I have performed, seen, and watched the result of, have con- vinced me that none of the ordinary methods are the best possible in any case, least of all in army surgery. I have yet to see the circular operation heal without great suppuration ; and the posterior flap opera- tion has, in five cases out of six, been complicated with the protrusion of the spine of the tibia. This with a heavy posterior flap can scarcely be prevented. The double flap is nearer the truth, but the (in my estimation) proper operation difters widely from that. It is briefly described thus:—Standing on either side, transfix the limb at the point you intend to saw the bones, with the flat of the knife against the posterior surface of both tibia and fibula; then cut downwards for about five inches, keeping the knife closely applied to the surface of the bones. Next bring the back of tlie knife to its first position, pressing back against the commencement of the incision. Then witli a quick movement of the wrist cut a posterior flap of one or two inches235 AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. in length, and carrying the disengaged knife over the front of the limb, connect the extrennties of the longitudinal incision hy a curved incision with its convexity downwards. Dissecting up the anterior flap the operation is easily completed, and, remembering to saw off the upper and inner angle of the shin, your anterior flap falls over the stump as naturally as the eyelid over the eye, and the pus finds as ready an exit as do the tears." "The advantages of this mode of amputation are many and various— (i) the facility of execution; (2) the complete freedom from all and any tension ; (3) the ready exit of pus ; (4) the impossibility of any dragging of the flap against the spirit of the tibia; (5) the freedom from pressure of all the important vessels and nerves." " The only objection that can be urged against this method is this— that by making the anterior flap so long, more of the length of a limb may be sacrificed. This objection at once falls to the ground, when we reflect that the posterior flap may be increased in length, and the ante- rior shortened, whenever circumstances may seem to demand it. The peculiar advantages of this form of operation are well preserved if the anterior flap is not more than two inches longer than the posterior." ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, i. 88.) J. Swinburne, in a paper on the indications for amputation in military surgery (' Amer. ]Med. Tim.,' 1B63, i, 149) makes the following remarks: "' The treatment of compound and comminuted fractures of the thigh becomes a matter of serious consideration, since it involves many important points. Statistics from the Crimean war show that in amputation through the hip-joint all died. In the upper third 87'o. In the middle third 6o'o died. In the lower third died; while the present war will, I think, demonstrate that even a greater propor- tion than this prove fatal. Excision of the shaft is evidently out of the question, since all die after the operation. The question then arises. Shall we amputate ?—or, Shall we treat siich cases as ordinary compound fractui'es? I prefer the latter, and have from the first thought it the most reasonable treatment. The plan I propose is to place the patient on a bed or stretcher, extend the limb as near as pos- sible to its normal length witliout giving too great pain, lietain it in that position by fastening the foot to the foot of the bed or stretcher, by means of adhesive plaster, as in ordinary comj)ound fractures, as I have on other occasions illustrated (' Traus. State Med. Soc, N.T.,' for 186i, &c.). Make the counter-extension thereon by an inclined plane, against which the body impinges, by elevating the foot of the bed or stretcher,—or the use of a perineal belt fastened to the head of the bed or stretcher. To obviate inversion or eversion of the foot, I place bags of sand on each side of the foot. There should be no bandaging of the leg or thigh. If collections of matter follow, free incisions may become necessary to relieve constrictions, and to facilitate the discharge of such matter and spicula of bone,—irrigation or the application of clotli wet in cold or warm water must be continued to the limb until inflammation has passed ofi". Under no circumstances must the patient bo removed from the bed or stretcher until the consolidation of tho bono is considerable, Avlien artificial support can be given, and tlioIII'U'OUT ON SUIiOKllY. patient allowed to go about ou crutches. lu this way 1 couteud that many more lives can bo saved than by amputations, and of uecesHity "with loss mutilation. Hence, do not amputate for compound and com- minuted fractures occiUTing in the shaft, neck, or head of the thigli- bono." Tho author adds a note, Irom whicli it appears that, out oi' twenty-one cases of compound and comminuted fraciurc; of tiic thigh taken indiscriminately, and treated by AY. van Steinburg, M.D., surgeon to the /Ith N. Y. S. V., with simple extension in the Tuanner just described, two died and nineteen recovered witli tolerably useful liiiiljs. " In compound and comminuted fracture of tlie shaft of the tibia, or even tibia and fibula, from bullet wounds, amputation should not be practised, since liundreds who have accidentally escaped the surgeons have recovered with only slight deformity. I think as many will sur- vive by simply treating these injuries as if they were ordinaiy com- pound fractures from any other cause, an would from amputation, and of course with much more useful limbs. I now know of at least a dozen cases which were destined for amputation that arc now recover- ing, and most of them will be as perfect as before the injury. As soon as practicable after the injury the wounded man should be placed ou a bed or stretcher, and kept there until consolidation of the bone takes place,—or nntil removed to some permanent place for treatment. Extension sufficient to keep the limb to near its normal length. Lateral support given by means of sand-bags placed longitudinally to prevent inversion or eversiou of the foot, as well as for the proper support of the limb. Extension kept up with no bandaging, and the treatment pro- ceeded with as previously detailed in analogous injuries of the thigh,— or, as if it were an ordinary compound fracture of the leg; but under no circumstances should excision be practised. All that can be required is to enlarge the incision, and remove loose spicnla and other foreign bodies. I may here state the great and potent reason why so many compound fractures do badly, is the fact, that the injured limbs are either bound up tightly with bandage and splints, or carried from hospital to hospital without even the support of a stretcher; a proceed- ing which destroys even a limb with simple fracture, and much more one of compound and comminuted fracture." The author concludes his paper in the following words:—" I cannot ur^e too strongly the importance of having an abundance of stretchers foAhe immediate relief of the wounded, and particularly those wounded in the lower extremities, to which can be attached an india-rubber cover, in case of heavy dews or rains. Ey this means the patient is treated more successfully some days after injury than if he Avere transferred to close and ill-ventilated hospitals, houses, or even tents, since you avoid the danger of foul and pus-generating air. These appliances keep them from the wet above as well as below (compare Jiiugken's remarks ou pyjcmia, &e., ' Year-book' for I862, p. 21a). There should be at least.a sufficient number of these stretchers to supply all cases of amputations of the lower extremities, as well as compound and commijiuted fractures of the same, where any eifort is being made to save the limb ; without them our efforts are futile, since the bedstead or stretcher becomes the splint; so in all cases of wounds of the tr\ink."llKliUISITJiS or A UOOU STUMl'. Aooordiiig to J. T. Hodgen ('Arnev. Med. Tim.,' 1863,11, 169), am- l)iitati()U iu cases of gunshot fractures of the femur or tibia has been pretty generally abandoned by American military surgeons, except wlien joints, blood-vessels, or nerves, are implicated. M. Legouest rejects primary amputation at the hip ('Mem. de la Soc. de Chir.,' v, 1^7); he has collected thirty cases, in which the operation was imme- diately performed—not one recovered; and Baron Larrey (ib., 369) lays it down as an almost absolute principle, that in cases of gunshot fracture of the superior third of tlie femur, preservation ot" the limb should be attempted, amputation, when necessary, being pertormed at a late period, as in a case of organic disease, and not immediately after the receipt of the injury. 21)'. Spence ('Edinb.'Med. Journ.,' viii, 955) gives the following as the requisites of a good stump :—the bone must be well covered with soft parts, and must not be adherent to, or bear directly upon, the cicatrix ; the nerves must have been so cut as not to become involved in the cicatrix, or attached to the end of the bone, and so deeply covered as to obviate the bad effects produced on their cut extremities by pressure or atmospheric changes. Such a stump would bear a con- siderable amount of direct pressure without becoming painful, irritable, or liable to ulceration. Mr. Spence has found, by examination and dissection of stumps, that whilst the muscular substance retained in llap operations certainly diminished in bulk, it did not in many cases do so to such an extent as might have been expected from a p)>'iori reasoning, but that, in almost every case, the muscular fibre, though frccjuently altered and condensed into a fibroid substance, could be traced as a thick layer under the skin ; as to neuromata, they are equally present in all forms of stumps, and even when the nerves are deeply covered ; in fact, a greater or less enlargement of the end of the nerve is a necessary result of its division. When such swellings are subjected to irritation from pressure, or from atmospheric influences, by being too near the surface of the stump, or from being involved in the cicatrix, tliey appear to increase in size, and occasion excessively painful symp- toms ; however, whether the stump had been painful or not, neuromata were found invariably pi-esent. Examination of stumps formed by the circular method had satisfied Mr. Spence of its inferiority to the flap ; for almost all the circular stumps were extremely conical and tender, the bone adhering to the cicatrix, which was not unfrequently idcerated. At the same time many of the stumps formed by flap amputations were very defective, especially those where the operation had been performed by lateral flaps in the lower third of the thigh. In these the bone pro- jected towards, and generally adhered to, the cicatrix at the anterior ])oint of transfixion, whilst the soft parts, forming the flaps, hung back from it. In various cases the soft parts were so retracted as to cause the stumps to resemble those obtained by the circular method; whilst in others the flaps seemed to have turned' in upon themselves, leaving a deep cleft corresponding to the cicatrix, which was closely attached to the bone. Still, on the whole, the stumps obtained by the flap were decidedly better than those which resulted from the circular method and their defects did not appear due to causes inherent in the mode of o[)erating.238 UEPOllT OX SUUGEUY. " After performing several amputations of the tliigli by Mr. Teale's method, and obtaining excellent stumps, it seemed to Mr. Speuce that its chief advantage consisted in the end of the bone being com])letcly covered by the sound tissue of tiio anterior flap, whilst the cicatrix was placed high iip ou the posterior part of the stump ; but that the square forni aud the folding of the long Hap were disadvantages as leading to trouble in adjusting the flap, and in the after-dressing, should uniou by the first intention fail, whilst the folding the flap on itself, aud ho retaining it by stitches, was likely to endanger its vitality to some extent. It seemed, therefore, to Mr. Spence that ho might obtain the advantages without the disadvantages of Mr. Teale's method, by revert- ing to a modification of O'Halloran's operation, aud simply cutting a large, slightly-rounded flap from the anterior aspect of the thigh, dividing the soft parts posteriorly by a circular sweep of the knife, so that, when the bone was sawn through, the anterior flap would fall upon and adjust itself to the section of the limb. This plan had accordingly been put in practice, and found to answer so fully, as regarded the form of stump and the simplicity of the dressing and after treatment, that Mr. Spence now constantly adopted it as a general method in amputation of the lower part of the thigh. For the proper perform- ance of this operation some particulars required to be attended to as regarded the size, form, and textures to be preserved in the anterior flap, and the section of the bone. In order that the anterior flap might fall loosely over, and cover the posterior segment of the stump, its breadth, in its whole extent, must be fully equal to one half the circum- ference of the limb, and it must be gently rounded at its extremity, so as to adjust itself readily to the curve of the cut margins of the posterior half of the stump. In Mr. Spence's own operations, he judged of the proportions by the eye ; but a flap of four inches would be found sufli- cient in a limb twelve inches in circumference, provided due attention were paid to preparing the bone for section, by elevating the thigh somewhat towards the pelvis, retracting the soft parts, and clearing the bone fully two inches higher up than the base of the flap. The bone was thus projected to the utmost, and if sa-wn close to the soft parts, when the limb was lowered, it was deeply buried in the anterior flap, which hung loosely over it. As to the textures composing tiie flap, Mr. Spence generally operated as low down as possible, so that the lower part of the flap was chiefly composed of skin ; but he cut obliquely through the anterior muscles to the bone, so as to have a thicker cushion directly corresponding to the sawn end of the bone. The great vessels must be left in the posterior part of the stump, and not included in the flap." H. Schmidt, statistics of all amputations and excisions performed at the Surgical Clinic of Tiibingen, from 1843 to 186.3 (Stuttg., Ebner and Seubert). M. Legouest, statistics of amputations (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 222). M. Debout, on the use of coverings for stumps (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 374). W. Busch, artificial leg for cases in which am- putation of the thigh has been performed ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iv, 32). J. F. Heyfelder, case of amputation at the shoulder-joint '(' Deutsche Klinik,' 1862. p. 4; 3). J. Spence, case of amputation at theACUTK PEllIOSnTIS 01' TUE LOWER JAW. 239 hip.joiiit C EJiub. Med. Journ.,' viii, 385). Sawostifczki; osteoplastic amputatiou of the thigh ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr., in, 31V. SPECIAL SURGERY. HEAD. M. Nilaton, clinical lechire on a case of cancer of tie upper jaw, following suppuration in the antrum ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863, p. 2). He pointed out that the tumour had caused absorption of the bone, and that an ordinary needle could be introduced without meeting with any resistance, an almost decisive sign of cancer. Dr. S. Self Helen has given the following description of acute rheu- matic ])eriostitis of the lower jaw ('Arch. f. Path. Anat.,' xviii, 347). It attacks perfectly healthy and robust individuals, with good teeth, after severe colds. It commences with violent toothache along one side of the jaw, considerable and often very intense fever, swelling of the cheek and gums, difiiculty in chewing and swallowing, increased secre- tion of the mucous membrane of the mouth and salivary glands, con- gestion of the head, even delirium. The symptoms usually increase in severity until suppuration takes place, unless active local blood- letting is early employed. Scarification of the gums down to the bone is the most simple and effectual manner of depletion; its effect is often magical. "Warm poultices and saline purgatives should also be employed. The action of preparations of iodine or mercury is too slow and uncer- tain. Suppuration sometimes occurs in even two or three days, one or more teeth fall out, and the pus is discharged by the alveoli; the matter also makes its way into the mouth by an aperture forming at the level of the roots of the teeth, and still more rarely through the cheek and external skin. Before the latter occurs, fluctuating swellings, with great but circumscribed redness of the skin, appear; should these not be opened early, a necrosis, of the whole thickness of the bone, is sure to result. The suppuration, which was originally limited to a few spots covered by the gum and to the alveoli, extends along the lower border, and covers the whole circumference of the jaw. If the abscess is early opened, the exfoliation of the bone is limited to one or other cortical layer, and usually to the outer one. PistulaB passing towards the mouth heal with difficulty, for the morbid process has then a great tendency to recur, owing to the constant movement of the jaw, and the irritation of the diseased tissues by the secretions and ingesta. Occasionally fresli suppurations, accompanied by febrile symptoms, recur, the submaxillary lymphatic glands become swollen and indurated, the soft parts of the cheek acquire slowly a hardness like that of a white swelling, constantly present a higher temperature, and are extremely sensitive to the touch. The diseased periosteum produces both pus and osteophytes. The latter vary much, sometimes appearing as compact bridges of bone, which even undergo sclerosis, or as porous deposits like pumice-stone. AVherever a sequestrum is not thrown off soon after the first attack of acute inflam- mation, it may be admitted that an extensive necrosis is in progress, when osteophytes can be felt with the probe. In such cases sponta-congress, 2nd session, 1862 (Paris, J. ]3. Baillierc). 11. Gritti, on the UKrOllT ON SUllGUIiy. iieous separation of the sequestrum rarely onsuoB ; it reiimiuB to koimc extent in organic connccf ion with tlie osteopIiytcH, and ultimately, after a number of niontha, a year, or oven more, an operation lias to be per- formed, in which both the sequestrum and the osteopliytes are removed together; in some cases, however, tlic sequestrum can be dragged out of the uewly-formed shell without dilllculty. A surgeon does not usually determine on an operation for the extraction of a large sequestruin, affecting the whole thickness of the bone, until osteophytes have formed, sufficient to form a bridge between the healthy portions of the bone, and to preserve the continuity of the maxillary arch ; for otherwise deformity is invariably produced by the lateral displacement of the chin. On tlie other hand, it should be remembered that the necrosis may spread further, attack the osteophytes, and ultimately require the removal of all the side of the jaw. The patients suft'er much in their general health ; the unavoidable mixture of pus and fetid products with the saliva and food excite pharyngeal catarrh, and interfere with digestion. The latter eifects would be of still greater importance in children ; fortunately the course of the disease appears to be different in them—the sequestrum soon becomes loose, and is thrown off before the process has become chronic and produced osteophytes, thus pieces, in- cluding the whole thickness of the bone, may come away in a very short time. Necrosis of the whole jaw from rheumatic periostitis is certainly very rare ; to remove such a sequestrum— and sooner or later it becomes necessary—is equivalent to extirpation of the whole bone. The author describes such a case, in which Professor Laugenbeck removed the whole lower jaw. I\ Jordan, on ligature of the carotid- in progressing extravasation of blood within the cranium ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, i, 612). Dis- cussion on a tumour of the head (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, pp. 54.3, 55.5). T. Bilh'oth, case of meningocele spuria cum fistula ventriculi cerebri ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir., iii, 398). E. Gintrac, on hydi-omeningocele (ib., Gurlt's report, p. 308). Jaios.—Von Pitha, on exarticulatiou of the inferior maxilla ('"Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1862, pp. 673, 689, 705). M. Eizzoli, on inti-a- buccal removal of inferior maxilla (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 293). Prof. Linhart, extraction of the roots of two teeth from the antrum (' Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 215). G. Simon, osteoplastic resections (' Deutsche Klinik,' 1863, p. 81). EYE. E. Liebreich, atlas of ophthalmoscopy (BerL, Hirschwald). T. Samisch, contributions to the normal and pathological anatomy of the eye (pp. 36, Leipz., Engelmann). H. Snellen, test-types for the deter- mination of the acuteness of vision (Lond., Williams and Norgate). P. Giraud-Teulon, lessons on strabismus and diplopia (Paris, J. B. BailliSre), H. W. Williams, practical guide to the study of the dis- eases of the eye (Boston, U.S.). M. Pollin, lessons on the" examination . of the eye, &c. (Paris, A. Delnhaye). Compte-rendu of the ophthaliuicIIEASUIIING THE ACTJTENESS OF VISION, 21-1 ophthalmoscope and the internal diseases of the eye (reviewed in the 'Ann. d'Ociil.,' vol. xlviii, p. 290). J. Z. Laurence, the progress of ophthalmic surgery (Lond., 1863). E. Canton, on the arcus senilis (pp. 228, Lond., 1863). A. W. Volkmann, physiological researches in optics, ist fasciculus (Leipz., Breitkopf and Hartel). A new journal, edited by Dr. "W". Zehender, has been commenced, under the title of ' Klinischc Monatsblatter fiir Augeuheilkunde ' (Erlangeu, T. Enke). In Snellen's work the ascending and descending portions of each letter are imiform in thickness, and exactly five times longer than broad. A number is placed over each set of letters, which gives the number of Paris feet at which a normal eye sees the height of each letter under an angle of five minutes, and therefore the breadth of each stroke under one of one minute. The author assumes that an eye of normal acuteness sees lines distinctly under an angle of one minute, or, inversely, that an eye which sees lines distinctly under a visual angle of one minute possesses the normal acuteness of vision. This assumption is founded on the researches of Hooke, according to which an angle of one minute is necessary for the accurate distinction of lines. By means of this supposition the author gains a comparable numerical expression for the degree of visual power in the following manner. The visual acuteness of an eye (S) is equal to the proportion of the distance at which the eye clearly distinguishes the letters {cl) to the distance at which the eye sees them under an angle of five minutes (D), i. e. S = ^. If, for example, an eye sees the letters marked I, V, XX, at a distance of i, <, 20 Paris feet respectively, then S =— = = — = i, or, in other words, the acuteness is equal to the normal. Should, on the other hand, another eye recognise No. XX at no greater distance than fifteen feet, S would equal — = —, the acuteness beiner less than 20 4 " the normal, a condition coming under the head of amblyopia. There are also eyes which are able to see distinctly at a greater distance than the number assigned ; such eyes possess an unusually great acuteness of vision, of which the proportion is again expressed by ^. It should be mentioned that all abnormal states of refraction must be eliminated by the use of proper glasses before the acuteness of vision can be deter- mined. The author has added to his work specimens of white and coloured letters on a black ground, of black strokes on a white ground, and a series of words in which the letters correspond as much as pos- sible to the desired size. Dr. Snellen adds (and edition, Berlin, 1863, p. 6), that in noting cases he usually inserts the fractions as they are, without reduction. By this means it may be known at a later period what numbers of the type have been employed. Thus, S = — would 20 signify that No. XX was recognised at the distance of ten feet. Where the vision is so bad that the letters are too small, he hasllKl'OUT ON SUllOEUy. recourse to the countiug of fiugers. lingers well separated from one another auci hold before a bhick background equal with tojerable accuracy No. CC in distinctness; and thus, if fiugers can bo so counted at the distance of ten feet, it may be noted as S = aoo The motion of a hand over a surface five times larger than No, CC can be recognised at about live times greater distance = looo feet. If, then, the motion of a hand is seen at three feet, S — ——. lOOO If only quantitative perception remains, the visual angle required for vision being infinite iu size, S = —. If no perception of light remains, S = o. In order that no error may arise from defective accommodation, the author generally commences with the examination of large type at a considerable distance; if, then, the vision is not improved by either positive or negative glasses, both myopia and hypermetropia are excluded. The eye must still, however, be examined for astigmatism, either by the use of a small slit or, still better, of both positive and negative cylindrical glasses ; in practice, we soon learn to recognise this afiection from the peculiar errors made in naming the letters and from the elongation of the image. Dr. J. Vroesom cle Haan, researclies on the influence of age on the acuteness of vision (in the reports of the Dutch Hospital for Eye Diseases, 1862, Utrecht). He excluded all eyes affected with myopia greater than with manifest hypermetropia greater than -g'jj, or with astigmatism greater than Such eyes as were not perfectly emmetropic were only examined, when they had been provided with neutralizing glasses. Care was also taken to avoid other errors, such as might proceed from different degrees of illumination or from the direction of the incident light. The only test-objects employed were the letters U, A, 0, L, in No. XX, white on a black ground, whicli can be easily recognised. The number of persons examined amounted to 280 ; the age varied from seven to eighty-four years. Of twelve 30 children, seven years old, one showed an acuteness of vision of —, the ' ' 20 second of —, the third of ^, the fourth of —, the fifth and sixth 20 20 20 26 1 32 of —, the seventh of — with + —, the eighth and nmth of —, the 20 20 80 20 tenth of --, the eleventh of —, the twelfth, with + —, also ^. 20 20 10 20 The average visual acuteness, according to the observations of the 30 author, is from the seventh to the twenty-seventh year = —. Troin 50 29J the twenty-eighth to the thirty-second year it sinks from ^ to —— ;BINOCULAll OPHTHALMOSCOPY. 24.3 from the thirty-third to the thirty-seventh year to —; then to the forty-second year down to ^; with the forty-eighth year it falls to 21 ^; with the fifty-third to —, and in the foUowing five years to ao 20 ''^ Trom that time to the sixty-second year there is a diminution to —^ ; then to the seventy-second year to ; and finally, it continues to fall to — in the eighty-second year. The author is far from considering the uumber of his observations sufficient for perfectly certain deduc- tions ; they appear to him, however, to show— (i) The average acuteness of vision remains much the same during the first twenty-five years of life. P (2) After the twenty-fifth year it diminishes in a tolerably regular manner. (3) In old age it sinks to even less than half the original. (4) It varies considerably in different persons of the same age. A very interesting fact elucidated by the author's researches is that normal eyes possess a much greater acuteness of vision than that adopted by Snellen as the unit. The author found up to the twenty- fifth or thirtieth year S = ^ ; from that period it diminished with such 20 slowness that it was not till the age of fifty that it became = — = i. Binocular oplitlialmoscopy.—J. Z. Laurence (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, ii, 457) has simplified the instrument of Giraud-Teulon, by sub- stituting for the rhombs ordinary reflectors of silvered glass or specu- lum metal. By a proper iuclination of the reflectors, the double images can be made to coalesce (as in "Wheatstone's reflecting stereo- scope) without any additional prisms. Such an instrument can be adjusted to suit either the different separation of the eyes met with iu different individuals or any deviations of accommodation. E. B. Carter ('Lane.,' 1863, i, 264) is anxious to call the attention of the profession, and especially of students and beginners, to the advantages of Mr. Laurence's instrument over those in common use. " In using the monocular ophthalmoscope of Coccius or Liebreich for the indirect or iuverted image, in spite of abundant illumination and perfect definition, the objects seen have the appearance of being all in one plane. The vessels of the retina can be distinguished from those of the choroid by colour and direction, but not by any appreciable difference in their position. The depressions formed by choroidal atrophy or posterior staphyloma, and the elevations from subretinal haemorrhage or effusion, present colours which contrast strongly with those of the general field, but scarcely any appearances by which, prior244 REPORT ON SURGEEY. to reflection, their sunken or raised position can be positively deter- mined. Even the cupped optic diwc, tlie most iiiarkecl of tlie surfiice- changCK ol' llio I'uudus oculi, bctra^'s itHclf chiefly by the bending of the vessels at its margin, and by inexperienced observers is not seldom mis- taken for an elevation. Indeed, the limited ])o\ver of one eye to furnish data for correctly estimating relief and relative position is, perhaps, tiio chief source of difficulty in the interpretation of ophthalmoscopic appearances. We are indebted to M. Giraud-Teulon for the suggestion by which this difficulty may be overcome. His binocular ophthalmo- scope has now been nearly twelve months in use in this country, and it may fairly be said to enable the student to discern at once the nature of appearances that, with the monocular instruments, are obscure to any but the most experienced observers. Witli its assistance, not only is the depressed optic nerve immediately recognised as an unmistakable cup or cavity, but even small effusions of blood, or lymph, or serum, on the one hand, and patches of atrophy on the other, present aspects that are conclusive with regard to their relations to the general level of the field. The vessels of the retina, too, appear to stand out from, and to be distinctly on a plane anterior to, those of the choroid, which, again, in young light eyes, with good illumination, may be recognised at dif- ferent depths in the chorio-capillaris. It would, perhaps, be too much to say that such assistance is of great value to those who have had large experience in the use of monocular instruments; but for those who desire to learn the use of the ophthalmoscope quickly, or to avoid errors of interpretation in spite of having had small experience, the instrument of Dr. Teulon can hardly be too highly estimated. It has, however, two serious faults. In the first place, the observer is annoyed by multiplied reflections of the mirror; and in the second, any one instrument can only be used by persons whose eyes are placed at the same distance apart. A slight difference in width sufficient to prevent perfect combination of the two portions of the light-pencil produces double vision and complete confusion. A somewhat greater difference, by excluding one eye from the visual act, reduces the instrmnent to a monocular ophthalmoscope of small utility, one half tlie light being lost to the observer." After describing the modifications suggested by Mr. Laurence, and carried out by Messrs. Murray and Heath, of 43, Piccadilly he states that " Messrs. IMurray and Heath's instrument, on account of its adjusting properties, not only admits of being passed from hand to hand, and modified, by turning a screw, to suit any observer, but it has the much greater advantage of affording complete rest to the muscular and accommodation apparatus. By altering the inclination of the mirrors, the precise direction may be given to the pencils of light, that enables tlie eye to receive them without eff'ort and to study the images they form without fatigue. On this account, and also because it is free from the reflections of the mirror that are so annoying in Dr. Teulon's instrument, it is the easiest of all ophthalmoscopes to use, and is calcu- lated to promote the general cultivation of ophthalmoscopic inquiry. There is a superficial appearance of complexity about the screws, tlie use of which sliould be mastered by preliminary practice with a candle- flame as an object j and the instrument is only ])erlcctly adjusted whenBINOCULAU OPHTHALMOSCOPY. 245 the observev looks tlirougli it, almost Matliout being conscious of its pre- si'iice. If a little pains be taken in tlie first instance, the beginner will find no tlimonlty, except a liability to set the mirrors much too near or too far apart, in either case totally excluding one eye from participation in the visual act, and using, in fact, a monocular ophthalmoscope, with perfect definition, but no relief After once seeing the relief that may be obtained, the Avay in which the retinal vessels appear to stand out from the nerve entrance, this mistake would be impossible. The degree of relief afibrded by Messrs. Murray and Heath's instrument is superior to anything that I have been able to obtain with Dr. G-iraud-Teulon's, a circumstance to be explained possibly by the rarity of a perfect fit with the latter. One patient, in whom I carefully compared the powers of the two instruments, and the state of whose eye was well adapted for testing them, suff"ered from a condition the nature and cause of w^hich ought to be recorded. She had considerable detachment of the anterior portion of the retina on the nasal side of the right eye, as a consequence of that operation which the surgeons who perforin it term ' division of the ciliary muscle.' A puncture had been made into the eye, ostensibly for the relief of myopia, and the resulting subretinal haemorrhage or effusion had been sufficient to produce a lesion seriously and permanently injurious to vision." Dr. Knajjp (' Klin. Monatsbl. f. Augenh.,' 1863, p. 319) has employed the binocular ophthalmoscope of Girand-Teulon. He states that he has found great advantages in its use in pathological conditions of the eye. The distance of opacities in the vitreous from the retina can be immediately recognised. The diagnosis of even the least degree of retinal separation is easy. In cases of oedema or of inflammatory changes in the optic nerve, the binocular ophthalmoscope causes instant recognition of the elevation, both as to its nature and degree. The same is the case in respect to excavation from atrophy of the optic nerve, or from glaucoma. Swellings of the retina to twice or thrice its natural thickness could be observed, and, on the other hand, atrophy of the retina was equally characterised. Both white points and streaks, and the more extensive plastic exudations, or collections of pigment in the retina, can be distinguished with greater ease from similar atrophic spots or masses of pigment in the choroid; the differential diagnosis of ecchy- moses of the retina and choroid is also much facilitated. The author Avas able to recognise distinctly, in a case of retinitis from Bright's disease, that the collections of fat were placed in the central layers of the retina; from this and some similar cases he arrived at the con- clusion that fatty degeneration of the retina, in Bright's disease, com- mences in the granular layers, and that it does not attack the layers of gray cerebral substance and of nervous fibres till a later period. He points out, in respect to diseases of the choroid, that binocular oph- thalmoscopy is of great service in the diagnosis of choroidal exudations, and that atrophic and prominent portions of the choroid, which ex- tremely resemble one another when seen by the ordinary instrument, can be very distinctly recognised and distinguished from' one another. According to him, the steep margins of atrophic portions of the cho- roidal tissue, chiselled, as it were, in the choroid, which occur in caies2:L6 UEVORT ON BUnaEUY. of choroiditis dissemiuntti, and in sclerotico-clioroiditia poBterlor, appear in a most striking inamier. It is more especially in regard to the latter disease that the author praises tho binocular speculum, and jnaintains that certain differences of level and other peculiarities can scarcely be recognised except by its use. J . Hutchinson, ailcctious of the eye following attacks of neuralgia or injuries to branches of the fifth nerve (' Ophth. llosp. Eep.,' iv, 120). J. P. Streatiield, new ibrceps for fixing the eye (ib., p. 100). Dr. Debout, on the mechanical restoration of tho apparatus of vision ('Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' xxxvi, 67). Dr. Klebs, on the pathological anatomy of the eye ('Ai'ch. f. path. Anat.,' xxv, 355), and I)r. iSchiess- Gemuseus (ib., xxvii, 127). L. Kugel, on oblique vision in cases of astigmatism ('Wicn. Med. Wochenscbr.,' 1863, p. 420, &c.). J. H- Knapp, Dr. Schweigger, and Prof. Douders, on astigmatism (' Arch. f. Ophth.,' vol. viii, part 2, p. 185 ; ib., vol. ix, part i, p. 178 ; ' Gaz. Ilebd.,' 1863, p. 637). H. Schiess, statistics of diseases of the eye ('Schweiz. Zeitschr.,' ii, 248) ; and on panophthalmitis (' Arch. f. Ophth.,' vol. ix, parti, p. 22). M. Giraud-Teulon and P. Heymann, on auto-ophthalrao- scopy ('Ann. d'Ocul.,' vol. 49, p. 181 ; and vol. 50, p. 34). JEyelids.—W. Detmold, division of the levator for lagophthalmus ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, i, 62). "W. Eoser, on trachoma ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1863, p. 377). Prof. Arlt, congenital coloboma of the upper eyelid ('Spit. Zeit.,' 1863, p. 187, &c.). H. Snellen, on suture in entropion (' Ophth. Hosp. Eep.,' iv, 62). EXOPnTHALMIC GOITEE. In a paper by Di*. J. O. Pletcher ('Brit. Med. .Tourn.,' 1863, i, 529), five cases of recovery from this aftection are related. The first case, a Mr. 0—, aged 26, after much mental anxiety and overwork, had an attack of hepatic colic. Scarcely recovered, he married, and went on a tour; on his return, Dr. Fletcher " found him sitting ujj, able to walk a short distance, and then failing, not for want of muscular power, but from the severe palpitations caused by the slightest motion or excitement. He was greatly emaciated, his clothes hang- ing upon him in folds. The eyes protruded to a considerable extent, and were more than ordinarily brilliant. The rest of his face was pale, sickly, wasted, and expressionless; no wrinkles nor painful ex- pression, but rather a want of it; yet the peculiar staring of the eyes gave him a most wild look, intensified by every motion of the body or mental excitement. The colour of the skin was peculiar, being some- thing between the paleness of simple auaimia and slight jaundice, dif- fering from the greenish yellow of chlorosis or the malignant tinge. When he was spoken to, the face flushed slightly, the eyes started more from their sockets ; he complained of increased paljjitations, throbbing in the neck and head, and constriction about the throat, which caused him to remove all covering therefrom. Ho complained of the heat of the room, although it was a cold night, and requested the fire to be removed, and the window to be opened, evincing a great tolerance of cold and intolerance of heat. Upon examining the heart, it could be247 EXOPIITWALMIC GOITRE. felt beating in its normal situation, with a tumultuous jcrldng impulse. He observed tliis symptom three days after his marriage. The palpita- tions were increase,c],.-by alteration of position and excitement^ to a con- siderable extent, giving him the idea, as he expressed it, 'as if it would jump out of the chest, or burst.' There was a lond systolic murmur, extending along the great vgssels. On percussing the region of the heart, I did not perceive any increased vertical or horizontal dulness. The carotids could be seen beating most violently, and gave a loud bruit. The abdominal aorta could be felt pulsating in the same way through the thin, wasted abdominal walls, and here also the bruit was heard. The radial pulsations were 1,36 per minute, full and soft; during excitement they had some of the violence and irregularity of the carotids ; but at all times there was a marked dilference in the radial and carotid pulsations. The thyroid body was enlarged, the lateral lobes being each of about the size of a duck's egg, the right a little larger than the left; it was soft to the feel, conveying a thrill to the fingers and a bruit to the ear. During excitement the gland increased in size, the thrill and bruit were increased. He noticed the enlargement of the thyroid gland fifteen days after the palpitations, eighteen days after his mai-riage. There was a distinct venous murmur in the jugulars. The abdomen was flat, and gave the normal physical sigus, except the pulsations and bruit of the aorta, and increased vertical and lateral dulness over the regions of the liver and spleen. The limbs were much wasted, the tissues hanging flabbily to the bones; there was slight oedema of the ankles. The eyes projected from the orbits ; by pressure of the finger the protrusion could be diminished, but it returned on the removal of the pressure. He could move the eyes freely in any direction, but the tendency was to look straight out. The coats of the eye were not in- jected ; vision was perfect, but there was a great disinclination to read, because the fatigue and consequent excitement caused an increase of the palpitations. The skin was cool, except during a paroxysm of ex- citement, when it was covered with a clammy perspiration. The urine was slightly increased in quantity, specific gravity 1021, pale, acid, deficient in urea, but otherwise normal. The tongue was clean, except near the base, where there was a creamy fur. He had much thirst, the desire being for acid liquors. "Whilst on the Continent he had taken freely of the light acid wines, which were no sooner taken than rejected, as he thought, from their not agreeing with him; he therefore day by day changed his wine, without any different result. This irritability of the stomach had troubled him during the convalescence from the attack of colic, and up to the time of his leaving England he had only been able to take milk diet without great risk of its being rejected. His appetite was variable and capricious, the desire being for highly seasoned soups, which were frequently rejected. In this way he accounted for the emaciation. He had diarrhcca during the first ten days, the stools being 'dark and bilious;' then constipation, which still continued. The bowels had not acted for three days before this evening; the motion \yas scanty and pale. He complained of inability to sleep ; he could not lie upon tke left side, in consequence of the increase of palpitations; nor on the right side, from difficulty of breathing; nor on his back, from con^248 EEPOUT ON SURGERY. striclion of the throat; the only way in which he could sleep was in a senii-roeiimbent position, or upon his stoinach. Tor more than tliree months, ho said, his slec]) had been disturbed and unrefreshing, from mental anxiety ; and now he thonj^ht ' sleep liad almost forsaken hiin.' He went to bed with a fixed impression that lie would not get an hour's sleep, and arose in the morning, nervous, fretful, irritable, and morbidly anxious. Ho had gone to bed night after night o£ late, rising in the moi-ning Avorse than on the previous day. He gave this as the reason for sitting up in his present emaciated condition. " The treatment consisted of nutritious, unstimulating food, in small quantities and at short intervals; a full dose of morphia at night to produce sleep, digitalis to steady the heart, and tincture of sesquichloride of iron to improve the condition of the blood. " He was under this treatment for a month, and at the end of Decem- ber, 1858, went to the west coast for a month, without medicine, and returned perfectly well. The improvement in the symptoms followed the order of their appearance—better nights, less irritability of the stomach, more perfect digestion, diminished excitement of the heart, gradual loss of bruit, sinking of the eyes, and diminished goitre. "When he left for the sea-side, there still remained a little of the goitre, but it was quite gone on his return. Up to the present time (over four years) he has enjoyed perfect health, and passed a critical examination in London in connection with a life assurance society." T. Laycock, on the cerebro-spiual origin and the diagnosis of the pro- trusion of the eyeballs termed anajmic (' Bdinb. Med. Journ.,' viii, 681) ; •ind on the causes and nature of the vascular kind of bronchocele, and of the pulsations and palpitations termed ansemic (ib., ix, i). J. W. Begbie (ib., ix, 198). Case of the occurrence of all three symptoms— exoplithalmus, bronchocele, and heart affection, in a single night, during which the patient's father died ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 389). Three cases ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' iv, 343)- MUSCLES OF THE EYE. Dr. H. D. Noyes records a case in which he brought forward the in- sertion of one of the recti, as first performed by Guerin, and since more widely promulgated by A. von Graefe ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1862, ii, 350). Twelve years previously the patient had a converging strabis- mus, which, owing to an operation, had been converted into the di- A'ergent form. " To correct the deformity, simple division of the external rectus was evidently inadequate, and the following operation was under- taken. The aim of the operation was to give to the divided muscle an attachment to a part of the globe nearer to the cornea, so as to enable it to act at a greater mechanical advantage. The loss of power is due to two causes—first, that the muscle has been shortened, and, secondly, that its insertion has slipped backwards. The first fault is irremediable ; the way in which the second impairs the power of the muscle is evident on a moment's reflection. The normal insertion of the ocular muscles is a little in front of the equator of the globe. So long as its attach- ment continues to be at or in front of the equator, a muscle actmg aloneOPEUATION rOU SECONDAUY STRABISJIUS. 219 simply turns the eye about its centre. But where the insertion slips behind the end of the transverse diameter into the posterior quadrant of a great circle, the turning power rapidly diminishes as tlie sine of the arc grows shorter; at the same time the muscle tends to pull the eye bach into the orbit. The muscle is further weakened by the appijoxima- tion of its origin and insertion, rendering its contractions less ellicient. " Operation.—Patient etherized; ej^elids separated by the wire specu- lum. The first step was to find and dissect up the insertion of the internal rectus muscle. An incision, a quarter of an inch long, was made vertically through the conjunctiva, at a reddish elevation which marked the original insertion of the rectus internus. The conjunctiva was dissected off the sclerotica and off" the external surface of the muscle by scissors for a depth of one half or three fourths of an inch. It was accidentally cut through before reaching the muscle. The in- sertion was sought for by a blunt hook—was found to be composed of a small bundle of fibres, not more than one fourth the normal breadth. Seizing it with forceps, it was separated from the globe and from its surrounding attachments, and loosened, until its extremity could be pulled as far forwards as the edge of the cornea. The next step was exposure of the external rectus muscle. A thread armed with a needle at each end was passed twice through the tendon, so that, when tied, it should include in the loop its whole breadth. The muscle was then severed just behind the thread. In these dissections the wounds made in the conjunctiva were as small as practicable, and the subconjunctival areolar tissue divided as sparingly as possible. The reason for this caution is, that the nutrition of the cornea may be perilled by the diminution of its vascular supply; nearly one half of its blood-vessels are sacrificed, at any rate. " By the thread fastened to the tendon of the external rectus, the eye could now be tiu-ned inward to the utmost degree. In doing this the divided external rectus could not slip entirely away from the globe, because its lateral attachments to the tunica vaginalis oculi had not been cut; at the same time the internal rectus applied itself to the sclerotica, very near the margin of the cornea. To maintain this extreme inversion the thread was carried across the bridge of the nose, which was protected by a compress, and fastened by isinglass plaster upon the opposite cheek. The thread, in passing out of the eyelids, pressed upon the border of the upper lid, and to correct this, another thread was attached to the middle of the first, like a guy, to pull it down, and fastened by plaster upon the right cheek. The eyelids could be'shut completely, and the thread was held tense. April 20th.—Patient was kept in bed for ten days, and the thread kept in situ forty-two hours. But little inflammation ensued; lids moderately swollen; external cccliymosia very extensive; general injection of the sclerotic ; no chc- mosis, no pain. Convergence is decided ; a fold of conjunctiva projects at inner canthus. Has double vision. May 12th.—The redness of eye almost gone; has made use only of cold lotions. The tendon of the extcmai rectus to which the thread was fastened, and the sclerotic into which the tendon was inserted, have sloughed. There is deep venous congestion at this spot. The cornea entirely transparent. Patient no250 UEPOIIT ON SUIIOERY. longer sees double, except when looking fur to the right side. Wlieii looking straight heforo him, the visual axes are pai-allel. There iR iieceusarily a decided limitation in tlic excursion which the eye can per- form ; but tlio range of its rotation, so far as it reaches, now corresponds to the other eye. October ,3rd.—Tiie position of tlie globe remains the same—its correction being i)erfect—but the arc of rotation is no greater. Tiiere is a slight degree of prominence of tlie eyeball. A black spot marks the original insertion of tlie external rectus. Patient is much gra- tified with the improvement of his appearance. Does not have diplopia. " This operation is troublesome to perform, and requires for its suc- cess great docility on tiie part of tlie patient. The thread ought to be retained in place for twenty-four hours. I kept it in longer, because the patient made no complaint of it. AVhen removed, after only twelve hours, the muscle has been found to adhere firmly ; but the longer the extreme inversion is kept up, the better Avill the new union bear the strain. There need be no fear of producing permanent converging squint. It is better that convergence should be the immediate result, because the eye will adjust itself in a little time, as the new union stretches. The same proceeding may be used in cases of paralysis of one of the ocular muscles. The muscle must not have entirely lost its contractility, and the paralysis must be old enough to be sure that no further improvement is to be expected by natural efforts. Bringing forward the paralysed muscle enables it to act at a greater advantage, and the slight weakening of the antagonist, which the operation pro- duces, is in favour of tlie paralysed muscle." F. O. Danders, on the pathogenesis of strabisimts ('Arch. f. Ophth.,' vol. ix, part i, p. 99). The researches on the accommodative and refrac- tive diseases of the eye have assisted in the highest degree in clearing up the pathogenesis of squinting. The following i-emarks are drawn from 280 cases which Bonders most carefully examined ; the sex, age, ordi- nary occupation, refractive condition and range of accommodation, extent of motion, constancy or variability of the squint-angle, time and manner of occurrence, hereditary influences, complications, such as diplopia or contraction of the field of vision, were always noted. The most important points discovered were, that convergent squint is usually the result of hypermetropia, and divergent of myopia. (i) Psendo-sirabismiis.—The visual lines* are parallel when two eyes, unaffected by strabismus, fix an object situated at infinite dis- tance.' If they are not parallel, there is strabismus ; but even if thej' are parallel, there may be pseudo-strabismus. The latter plays an impor- tant part in the development of true strabismus, and must accordingly be first discussed. It depends on the relations of the visual lines to the corneal axes. The two do not coincide ; the one is intersected by the other in the single knot-point (of the reduced eye), and the visual line strikes the cornea at the nasal side of the axis. The angle formed by these two lines at the knot-point averages, according to the observa- * For an explanation of various technical terms used in this paper, the reader may be referred to an article entitled " Recent Researches on the Optical Relations of the Eve," ' Brit, and For. Med.-Chir Rev.,' 1862, vol. xxix, p. 1.CAUSES OF STRABISMUS. tions of Dr. Doycr and Prof. Bonders on fifteen emmetropic eyes, :;-o82° ; its maximum is f, its minimum 3-5°. Thus, when the visual lines are parallel, or in other words, wlicn a man with normal eyes looks straight forward, the corneal axes diverge, and form with one another an angle of 2X5°=io°. Now, we naturally decide from the direction of the corneal axes in what direction the eyes are looking, and yet this (physiological) divergence gives us the impression of parallel- ism, and not of (pathological) divergence, simply because it is the normal condition. This angle, however, becomes greater in hyper- metropia, smaller or even negative in myopia; there is, therefore, often pseudo-strabismus divergens in the former, in the latter pseudo-strabis- jiius convergens ; in the former the divergence may increase from 10° to 18°, in the latter may assume even a negative value of 9°. Such deviations depend upon peculiarities in the structure of hypermetropic and myopic eyes. Bonders is inclined to think that the so-called strabismus incongruus of J. Miiller is nothing more than the pseudo- strabismus here described. (2) Convergent strahismns is in most cases connected with hyper- metropia (in 133 out of 172 cases). The latter is the primary affection, for it is present at the very commencement of the so-caUed periodical strabismus, and such a commencing squint at once disappears on the correction of the refractive condition. The tendency to strabismus is excited in these cases by the great efforts to accommodate which the hypermetropic patient is obliged constantly to make, and especially in the vision of near objects; the squint is an iunnediate consequence of the intimate connection between the degree of convergence and that of accommodation. Two alternatives are presented to a hypermetropic patient:—(i) The instinctive employment of binocular vision; by this means he remains free from strabismus, but as he cannot then converge the eyes to the degree necessary for the correction of the optical defect, lie is obliged to be satisfied with only an indistinct perception of objects. (2) The instinctive use of distinct vision ; he abandons bino- cular vision and induces the necessary (pathological) convergence, or, in other words, he begins to squint. As, however, there are far more cases of hypermetropia uncomplicated than complicated with strabismus, it appears that there must be some special causes which induce the second course. Such are congenital differences in the acuteness of vision or in the refractive condition of the eyes, corneal opacities, and other conditions which diminish the importance of binocular vision, or such as facilitate the occurrence of convergence—peculiarities in the structure or innervation of muscles, or ready mobility of the eyes inwards. The very great angle between the visual line and corneal axis, which occurs in hypermetropia, might be expected also to promote the formation of a squint, for in such cases the eyes can only diverge to the necessary degree with difiiculty; and thus if the regulating influence of binocular vision is once lost, convergence ensues. This supposition is confirmed by a number of cases tabulated by Bonders ; they show that under similar conditions a large angle of divergence forms a special predisposition to strabismus. In the highest degrees of hypermetropia strabismus is rarely observed, because even an abnormal increase of thehepoiit on suroehy. 252 convergence would not excite suflicient accommodation in hucIi oases. Strabismus is, therefore, most frequently met with in moderate degrees of hypormetropia (relative hyperiuetropia). It may be slated, as a general rule, tliat tlic less tlio range of accommodation, and tlie greater the angle between the corneal axis and visual line, so much the lews will be the degree of hypormetropia necessary to excite squinting. The iixation of near objects, and especially of those placed to one side, has often been adduced as a cause of squinting. Donders is convinced that strabismus is not produced in the emmetropic eye in such a manner; but he admits,' that in cases of hypermetropia such a habit might i'acilitate its occurrence. This form of strabismus generally commences about the age of five; it is at first periodical, occurring upon efforts at distinct vision. Diplopia does not occur, probably because the deviation only occurs during attempts to distinctly see some particular object, to which alone the attention is accordingly directed. In most cases the squint becomes at an early period constant and concomitant; the deviation is, as the rule, permanently restricted to one and the same eye; the movements of the eyes are easy, the range of lateral mobility of both eyes increased to the inner side, diminished to the outer side, although one is always deviated, the other constantly directed in the right direction. Both internal recti must, therefore, be contracted. This contraction of the internal recti, at first dynamic, becomes organic when the squint becomes constant; it is a consequence of excessive action, with relaxation of the antagonistic muscles ; there is no pathological change of tissue. Fixation induces increased convergence even when the strabismus has become permanent; after tenotomy the same increase is often noticed. As squinting may be prevented in the first stage (that of periodical squinting), so after an operation a recurrence may be obviated by convex glasses, which neu- tralize the hypermetropia. The deviated eye soon diminishes in acute- ness of vision, and when the amblyopia has attained a high degree, fixation becomes excentrical. Hypermetropia has not been recognised by earlier authors as a cause of convergent strabismus. (3) Strabismus cliverrfens is, as the rule, connected with myopia. The - divergence is, however, not induced actively, as is the convergence in hypermetropia, but passively, owing to the increased length of the optic axis, which impedes the globe in rotating. The mobility both inwards and outwards is at first afi'ected. There is insufficient mobility inwards, when the visual lines cannot be made to intersect at a distance of two and a half inches (=an angle of 51°). Now, since the angle between the visual line and corneal axis is, in cases of myopia, very smaU or even negative, still greater convergence of the corneal axes is required than in hypermetropia. The insufficiency just mentioned induces in some cases muscular asthenopia. If deviation of an eye (outwards) occurs during great exertion, as a consequence of such insufficiency—a circumstance which sometimes diminishes, sometimes increases, the troubles of the patient—relative strabismus divergens is present. The visual lines are properly directed to objects at a distance; only one eye is employed on work close at hand. There is always relative strabismus divergens, even when the convergence is uualtered,253 CAUSES OF STEABISMUS. wlien the furthest point of distinct vision is nearer than that which can bo attained by the utmost convergence, thus when the myopia is greater than Accordingly, whilst relative strabismus divergens may occur in high degrees of myopia, unattended by any insufficiency, it may also appear without myopia m cases where the insufficiency is extreme. Its most important form is where a moderate degree of myopia appears iu combination with insufficiency. An ordinary degree of insufficiency would only induce muscular asthenopia; accompanied by myopia, it induces divergent strabismus. Muscular asthenopia is thus avoided at the cost of binocular vision. Opportunities are frequent for observing the difierent phases of the contest between tiuocular vision and rela- tively divergent strabismus. Cases are exceptionally met with in which, with extreme myopia, there is a great power of converging, though, indeed, at the cost of the mobility outwards. More frequently, however, the convergence is not sufficient for such cases, and we then meet with a strange combination of relatively divergent strabismus during vision of near objects, and relatively convergent during that of distant objects, whilst a certain range of binocular vision remains for medium distances. Such a condition recalls to mind the combination of myopia with presbyopia. Absolute divergent strabismus is characterised by the visual lines diverging also in the vision of distant objects; it ordinarily excludes all binocular vision, though in some few cases a tendency in the oppo- site direction is temporarily noticed during vision of objects placed at a particular distance, a few feet or inches. Absolute divergent squint is rarer than the convergent form, and myopia is less frequently the cause of the former than hypermetropia of the latter. If, however, cases of both absolute and relative divergent strabismus are counted together, the convergent form would be the less frequent; myopia is found iu about 90 per cent, of the cases of relative divergent strabismus. The reasons for the change of the relative into the absolute form are—want of the regulating action of binocular vision during the fixation of near objects, the tendency to separate double images more widely, perhaps also the effort to exclude the high tension of accommodation associated with the difficult convergence. On the other hand, there are some causes which impede such a metamor- phosis, thus the impulse towards binocular vision and the limitation of the mobility of the eye outwards. Individual peculiarities decide ; just in analogy to the convergent strabismus caused by hypermetropia,' the absolute form is promoted by such conditions as facilitate motion outwards or take away the value of binocular vision. Inequality of refractive power must be specially mentioned iu respect to the latter. In short, hypermetropia causes accommodative asthenopia, which is actively overcome by convergent strabismus; myopia induces muscular asthenopia, which is passively avoided by divergent strabismus. A. von Grafe, on muscular asthenopia (' Arch. f. Ophth.,' vol. viii part 2, p. 314). ' ■ ' J. "VV". Ilullce, cases of abscess and of tumour of the orbit C Onhth Hosp. liep,,' iv, 88). ^ ^UEPOUT ON SUllGEUY. 25-1 Lach'ymal ormns.—M. Funo, hypertrophy of the palijebral portion of the lachrymal Kland ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 529). Dr. Hirscbler, ou stillicidium (' Wiou. Med. AVochenschr.,' 1862, p. 721). Befmction and accommodation.—H. de Haas, historical researches on hypermetropia (Kotterd., 1862, aud 'Klin. Monatsbl. f. Augenh.,' 1863, p. 31). M. Tetzer, abnormal conditions of refraction ('Allg. Wien. 3lcd. Zcit.,' 1863, p. 170, &c.). A. Biirow, a new optometer (pp. 36, Berlin, Peters). P. J. Bumstead, ou astigmatism ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 203). Malic/nant disease.—H. Walton says ('Med. Tim. aud Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 316)— "What is to be doue when a patient is brought to us with supposed medullary cancer ? It is certain that, if the suspected disease be present, it will increase, and no general treatment can be available. Are we to operate ? It is equally certain that no cure is to be found in removing the eyeball. The invariable result of such attempts has been recurrence of the disease locally, and there are always tumours of the brain or other vital organs, generally called secondary, but fre- quently incorrectly so. I'rom all that I have seen, and most cei'tainly when the optic nerve is involved, I fully believe that death has occurred sooner than if the disease had been left to run its course. There is not an unequivocal case of recovery on record. The hasty reports given in the journals a week or two after the operations as ' successful opera- tions for soft cancer of the eyeball—extirpation for cancer—cure,' and 80 forth, tend greatly to mislead the medical public. I am not now, be it remembered, discussing the question of operating for malignant affections in general; for I must say that iu some—hard cancer, for instance—I fully believe that, imder certain restrictions, life is pro- longed by it, that a part of the term to be lived is passed through with less suffering, and that hope, rather than despair, prevails. It is medullary cancer only of the eyeball that I am considering." J. W. Hulke, six cases of intraocular cancer (' Ophth. Hosp. Eep.,' iv, 81). Conjunctiva and cornea.—H. Demme, case of cancroid simulating phlyctenular disease ('Schweiz. Zeitschr., i, 301). E. Theremin, sta- tistics of purulent conjunctivitis in the foundling hospital at St. Petersburg (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' v, 97). A. Geissler, report on military ophthalmia (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 116, p. 81). Dr. JNIarstou, ou epidemic ophthalmia in the central London district schools ('Arch, of Med.,' iii, 183, 266). M. Purnari, ou conjunctival tonsure ('Ann. d'Ocul.,' vol. xlix, p. 172). 0. Bader, on syndectomy (' Ophth. Hosp. Eep.,' iv, 19). Mr. Critchett, on the operation of abscission in staphyloma (ib., p. i). P. Marsdin, on keratitis (ib., p. 30). H. Snellen, on the diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva (ib., p. 58). Iris.—'K. Stellwag, on iridencleisis ('Wien. Med. Wochenschr., 1863, p. 449). Dr. Magavly, on iridodesis (' St. Petersb. ]\fed. Zeitschr.,' iii, 225). Dr. Wecker, on iridodesis ('Ann. d'Ocul.,' vol. xlix, p. 186). Prof. Hasner, on posterior synechia ('Prag. A'iertelj.,' 1862, iv, 137). T. Windsor, on the operation for artificial pupil ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, ii, 464). W. E. Beaumont, new iris forceps ('Med.-Chir. Trans.,' vol. xlvi, p. 175).GLAUCOMA. 255 Calabar bcah.-I>. A. llobertson ('Edinb. Med. Jouru., vui, 810, and ' Ophth. Hosp. Eep,.' iv, 38). T. R. Praser (ib., ix. 36, &c.). D. Hanbury C Brit. Med. JourD.,' 1863, ii, 239). G. Harley (ib., 262). T Nuuuele3% on its use in prolapsus of the iris ('Lancet, 1863,11, 65). C. J. Workman ('Opbtli. Hosp. Rep.,' iv, 112). J. W. Ogle, the Calabar bean paper (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i, 673). A. von Urate ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, p. 285). , /<T^ ^ , Zens—Vrof. Axlt, on the causes of failure in extraction ('Deutsclie Klin.,' 1862, p. 474). A. von Grafe, clinical lecture on extraction in inarastic eyes, &c. ('Eliu. Monatsbl. f. Augenh.,' i, 172, 185). T. ■Windsor, on the use of forceps in extraction (' Brit, and For. Med.- Chir. Rev.,' vol. xxxii, p. 219). J. Jacobson, a new and innocuous opera- tion for cataract (Berl., Peters). GLATJCOMA. J. H. A. Haffmans has published (Diss., Utrecht, and'Arch. f. Ophth. vol. viii, part 2, p. 124) an exposition of the views and experience of Prof. Douders with reference to glaucoma. In his sketch of the history he shows that "Weller was the first to give a good account of the symp- toms ; that Mackenzie in 1830 had perceived the importance of the increased tension of the eye; that E. Jager, in 1854, drew and described the peculiar appearance of the entrance of the optic nerve ; that a very little later, von Grafe gave a still more accurate account of the oph- thalmoscopic manifestations; that he added the fresh and very im- portant symptom of arterial pulsation, traced the change in the optic disc to excavation, and finally referred, with success, the whole of the symptoms to one origin, that of increased pressure in the vitreous space (see the translation of his essays. New Syd. Soc, 1859). Prof. Donders distinguishes only tvro principal forms of this afiection— glaucoma simplex and glaucoma cum ophthalmia. The former is the typical form. "Whilst the globe increases in hardness, the papilla of the optic nerve becomes excavated, the vessels become displaced along the margin of the disc, gentle pressure induces arterial pulsation, the anterior chamber is lessened in size, the power of accommodation is lost, the field of %'ision becomes contracted, and its acuteuess diminished. In typical cases the increased tension persists, the excavation increases, the arteries become very small, and complete blindness is the result. Throughout the course of the disease every symptom is the necessary and immediate consequence of the increased intraocular pressure. The media may remain transparent even for years after the occurrence of total blindness. Ciliar neuroses occasionally occur, yet never to a high degree. Inflammatory symptoms are entirely absent. Coloured halos around flames are rarely seen. The subconjunctival vessels become somewhat enlarged; the sclerotic continues white; the cornea smooth and brilliant, though less sensitive; the pupil dilated and fixed; the iris scarcely changes, however, in colour or tissue. Such an uncom- plicated course is, however, somewhat uncommon ; out of eighty-two eyes which had been blinded by glaucoma, seventy-three had presented inflammatory symptoms. On the other hand, we often meet with this form in the commencement of the disease; thus, in more than thirty256 llEPORT ON SUnOEEY. cases one eye had become blind from glaucoma cum ophthalmia, tlie other presented symptoms of glaucoma simplex. Tiie lii'st symptom is increased tension of tlie globe. The " amaurosis with excavation " of Von Grafo is the glaucoma simplex of Bonders, for in all cases that presented the characteristic form of excavation—that reaching to the edge of the papilla—ho has found increased pressure. Not only can the increased pressure be felt by the finger in such cases, but its existence is also shown by tlie excavation, the more ready occurrence of arterial pulsation, by diminished depth of the anterior chamber, by the in- creased size of the subconjunctival vessels, and by the diminished range of accommodation. The slower the increase of intraocular pressure, the deeper does the excavation become, before it interferes with vision, just as very great Eressure can be borne on the brain provided it progresses very slowly. _ >onders has also found that the eye is less inclined to be attacked with inflammation when the pressure increases very slowly ; inversely, a deep excavation and little loss of vision justify the supposition that the course of the disease has been slow. What von Griife described as the premonitory stage is for the author glaucoma itself—glaucoma simplex, and identical with " amaurosis with excavation." The difference between the author's opinion and that of von Griife consists in the former believing that the increased intraocular pressure is present from the very commencement of the disease, whilst the latter appears inclined to attribute it to the inflammation which so often occurs at a subsequent period. The pressure very rapidly aug- ments when inflammation occurs; but even when no inflammatory symptoms have supervened, we find that the eye becomes, in the course of years, as hard as stone, and totally blind. Such a case has continued one of glaucoma simplex. The inflammation is a complication, though truly one of very frequent occurrence. The conclusions of the author are as follows : 1. Glaucoma simplex may run its course to total bUndness without the occurrence of ophthalmia, the globe becomiug of stony hardness, the papilla of the optic nerve becoming much excavated and atrophied, but the media remaining clear. 2. Symptoms of inflammation, characterised by congestion of the vessels, pain, and turbidity of the media, very often complicate glaucoma simplex, especially in its earlier stages. These symptoms lead to perfect blindness, either by violent attacks with intermissions, or as an insidious inflammation with repeated slight exacerbations. When inflammation occurs, the tension becomes notably augmented, and the symptoms dependent upon pressure rapidly progress. 3. It is not proved that a primary glaucomatous inflammation occurs in any case where the intraocular pressure has not been already increased. As to the origin of the affection, the author sets up the hypothesis that it depends on a condition of irritation of the ner\ es, which regulate secretion in the eye. Douders traces' a connection between the arterial pulsation and the interference with the ])owcr of vision. He has found, by pressing onGLAUCOMA. 257 healtliy eyes that obscuration of the visual field occurred as soon as the pressure caused arterial pulsation. The obscurations are often tran- sitory iu glaucoma; so is likewise the arterial pulsation. It thus appears that the obscurations depend at first on the condition of the circula- tion, and are not directly caused by pressure on the optic nerve and retina. . The coloured ring seen around the flame of a candle has been attri- buted to the augmented pressure on the retina. The author shows that it is a physical phenomenon, caused by the peripheral portion of the media. The reason for the frequent occurrence of this symptom in glaucoma is partly because the pupil is much dilated, partly, perhaps, from some change in the lens, which causes greater diffraction. Contraction of the visual field occurs in every form of glaucoma, though it is not in glaucoma simplex one of the earliest symptoms. Hardness of the globe is often followed by distinct excavation _ of the papilla and displacement of the vessels, before any contraction can be found. Whether the field of vision is intact may easily be discovered, if the patient closes one eye and looks with the other at that of the observer, the left eye of the patient being directed to the right one of the observer, and conversely. The surgeon now moves his hand, or some object, midway between his own and the patient's eye, so as to convince himself whether the latter sees it whenever he himself can. The acuteness of excentrical vision may be tested in the same way to some extent, by comparing the power of counting fingers, or of recog- nising various objects. It is not uncommonly found that in some parts of the \isual field the power of recognition is diminished when no distinct contraction has occurred. As to the operation, Bonders considers the excision of the piece up to the very periphery of the iris of greater importance than its size. He mentions Mr. Bowman's method of seizing the iris at one end of the incision, incising it, tearing it away up to the other end, and then cutting it off. Comparing his own results with those of von Grafe, he finds that the operation is invariably rewarded with success wherever the results, according to the latter, are favorable. He has, however, obtained much better results, than von Grafe's experience had led him to expect, in cases of glaucoma with chronic ophthalmia (von Grafe's chronic glaucoma), and in those of glaucoma simplex (von Grr'afe's amaurosis with excavation of the optic nerve). He is perfectly con- ^ inced that in glaucoma simplex, not only arrest of the disease, but also a gradual improvement in vision, and in many cases expansion of the contracted visual field, may be expected from a well-performed iridectomy. The essential indication is the increased tension; where excavation of the papilla and impaired vision are attended by increased hardness of the globe, benefit is to be expected from iridectomy. A. von Grafe has published cm accotint of his later experience of glaucoma and the action of iridectomy ('Arch, f Ophth.,' viii, 2, p. 242). As to the time when the operation should be performed in acute cases, he still holds to the same opinion that, as the rule, the operation should he performed as early as possible in acute fflaucoma, altliough iu some cases a little delay may be allowable. The condition of tlie vision 17258 KErORT ON SUEGEEY. decides the urgency of the operation; if not much deteriorated, and if the ciliary neuroses are extremely violent, some delay and the previous use of subcutaneous injections of gr. -i to -J- of morphia may be advisable. He has seen, in old persons beyond fifty-five years, although ex- tremely seldom (only four times), vision entirely lost in the course of a few hours, even in half an hour. He assigns to these cases the name of glaucoma fulminaus. No cases more urgcjitly require immediate operation. In one case, where no perception of light remained, the operation Avas performed twenty-eight hours after the occurrence of blindness ; the ])atient could see next day the motions of a hand, and on the third day count fingers; the vision continued to improve till she could read Jiiger's No. 3 at ten inches' distance ; it has for the last year and a half remained unchanged. Another case, in which not a trace of quantitative perception of light remained, was operated on the third day after the supervention of blindness ; two days later there was a very little perception of liglit, and after eight days the patient could count fingers in a small part of the visual field. In two months the improvement had reached its acme, so that No. 6 could be read at ten inches by means of convex glasses. In a third case the operation was performed after a period of fourteen days ; it relieved the inflammatory symptoms, but had only a temporary effect on the vision; the very slight quantitative perception of light which ensued was again entirely lost in six weeks. The fourth patient was not seen until five weeks after the attack, which had caused total blindness in an hour and a half. No operation was performed. These cases show, von Grafe remarks, that it is not always easy to decide that all vision is lost. He has seen four or five patients who could not distinguish the light of a brightly burning lamp, close at hand, from darkness, and who yet could accurately perceive the motion of a hand in a small portion of the visual field to the outer side. The earlier the operation, the better is the result. In reference to some real or supposed inconveniences of iridectomy in glaucoma, the author remarks— (1) That its performance in the acute form, but in that only, on one eye, hastens the outbreak of the disease in the other. Forty-three cases were submitted to operation during the first period of acute glaucoma, at a time when the other eye was either normal or only in the premonitory stage. Out of these cases an acute attack occurred in the second eye in nine instances within fourteen days from the former operation. Out of more than eighty cases, where the first eye had not been treated by opera- tion, the second eye was attacked in only five within a month from the commencement of the disease. Such a circumstance should induce the surgeon to watch these patients carefully. (2) That iridectomy in glaucoma does not promote the formation of cataract unless the capsule be accidentally injured. In more thau four hundred cases of operation for glaucoma von Griife lias seen cataract only once occur immediately after the operation, and in that case the capsule had been wounded. He takes this opportunity to remark that he had expressly recommended in his first publication on the subject (as Arlt has also done recently) a broad excision of the iris, reachmg to259 EXCAVATION OF THE OPTIC DISC. the ciliary iusertiou, and accordingly to make the internal wound quite at the periphery. He also recommends, as the rule, that the inner portion of the iris should be excised, and not the upper, a rule espe- cially to be observed when the assistant is inefficient or the operator little experienced, and generally in all difficult cases. (3) He has seen a peculiar "cystoid" form of cicatrization of the wound made in the operation, to a slight degree in one fifth, to a high typical development in about one fifteenth, of all the eyes thus treated for glaucoma. This form of healing has, in addition to some problem- atical advantages, positive disadvantages, and must therefore be opposed by proper treatment. As such may be enumerated, compression by a bandage as a prophylactic, and excision. The author now admits "amaurosis with excavation of the optic nerve" into the category of chronic glaucoma. Every excavation of the optic papilla which presents the characters of an excavation from pressure, would accordingly be named glaucomatous. Yet it must be remembered that the excavation is only a symptom, and the essence of the disease is the increased intraocular tension, ivith reaction on the functions of the optic nerve or retina. He describes the characters of the excavation from pressure at length. He asks, "Has it fixed characters, and is it easy under aU circumstances to distinguish an excavation from pressure from other depressions of the optic nerve caused by atrophy or by yet unknown causes. I consider this question of such practical importance that, even at the risk of repeating well-known facts, I shall once more enter upon its consideration. The following are the characteristics of the typically developed excavation from pres- sure : " (i) In contradistinction to the physiological (central) depression, it reaches to the margin of the papilla. " (2) It has a steep edge, even when not very deep. This furnishes an explanation for most of its ophthalmoscopical appearances ; first, the bendings and interruptions of the vessels; then the peculiar displace- ment of the fundus of an excavation, owing to prismatic action, when a convex glass is moved hither and thither towards the margin; for the whole fundus being relatively at a distance from the surface of the retina, owing to its steep descent, but its separate portions approxi- mately in the same plane, the mutual position of the separate objects on the fundus is changed but little, v?hilst the excavation, as a whole (of course in proportion to its depth), is much displaced towards the margin. These signs are of special importance in regard to excavations from atrophy. The latter, even when very deep (a circumstance of rare occurrence), have a gentle slope, and are accordingly without the abrupt interruptions and bendings of the vessels; the latter are only slightly deviated. Eor the same reason, the fundus of the excavation is not displaced as a whole and relatively strongly towards the margin, but when the convex glass is moved from side to side, the difierent portions of the excavation, in proportion to the gradiially augmeutino- distance from the retina, approach or recede from one another. ^ "(3) A distinct enlargement takes place in the retinal veins, after they have emerged from the excavation, which is clearly caused by theIIEPOUT ON SURGEEY. nieclmuioal liypera-iiiia at tho poiut of bending, aud wliicli reaclieri its niaxiiiniiii doso to the margin of tlio excavation. TIiIh is also an imijortaiit dillL-iviiw from atrojjliic excavations, in wliich the vessels are generally diminished in size, and in which especially the sud- den ending of congested veins at the margin of the depression is absent. "(4) The arterial branches within the excavation i)ulsate either spontaueonsly or on the slightest pressure with the finger on the eve." He totally rejects the idea of an idiopathic affection of tho optic nerve in glaucoma, an idea wliicli is unsupported by fresh 8i)ecimenB or yet by analogy. The author doubts Bonders' explanation of glaucoma, according to which an abnormal irritation of the secretory nerves is the remote cause—(i) because of the absence of any experimental proof; (2) be- cause of the want of any connection between pressure and inflamma- tion, whilst, on the other hand, inflammation sufficiently explains the increased pressure; (3) because in mauy cases of so-called glaucoma simplex slight transitory attacks of inflammation may be discovered. He still defends the inflammatory nature of glaucoma, although he admits that a certain proportion of cases run their course without marked symptoms of inflammation, and that in the rest the pressure- symptoms continue during the intervals between the inflammatory attacks. As to the classification of cases of glaucoma and the definition of their stages, be notices the 'premonitorij stage (glaucoma imminens, incipiens). This stage is characterised by the periodical occurrence of the symptoms. The intervals present perfect intermissions, except that the range of accommodation remains somewhat limited, and that the tension of the eyeball is increased. The attacks are characterised in this stage by slight sluggishness and dilatation of the pupil, faint cloudiness of the aqueous humour, congestion of the retinal veins, iridescent vision, mistiness of sight, and occasionally—though by no means always—by ciliary neuroses. In more severe attacks all these symptoms are more fully developed; diminished size of the anterior chamber, indistinctness of excentrical vision, even peripheral defects in the visual field, especially when the light is of little intensity, and arterial pulsation, make their appearance. If thepu])il and acutencss of vision are no longer normal during the intervals, or if the optic nerve lecomes excavated, then the premonitory stage is past, and the case is one of developed glaucoma iviih periodical exacerbations of the symptoms. Prof von Grafe considers the distinction of the premonitory stage to be of practical importance, because its duration is indefinite, and operative treatment may be delayed. Cases of developed glaucoma (evolutum, confirmatum) maybe divided into several forms:—(i) Those without inflammatory symptoms, the glaucoma simplex of Douders, the glaucomatous excavations or amau- roses with glaucomatous excavation of the author. This form is scarcely ever preceded by a premonitory stage; about one third of the eyes at- tacked by it are myopic, a circumstance of otherwise uncommon occur- rence ; it occurs relatively more often than the other forms duringVAlMliTIES OF GLAUCOMA. 2GI the first hall" of life. As the rule, one eye is attacked soon after the otlier. The pressure-symptoms are generally not very marked. Glaucoma xcith intermittent injlammaiion.—The inflammatory attacks are very transient, and only characterised by extremely slight cloudiness of the ocular media; in their intervals we find diminished acuteness of vision, contraction of the field of vision, more or less distinct symptoms of increased pressure, and, as the rule, well-marked excavation of the optic disc. ^ Chronic inflammatory glaucoma—li is sometimes preceued by a pre- monitory stage, sometimes by glaucoma simplex. After an acute attack the inflammation generally becomes chronic ; such cases are character- ised by the peculiar changes of the iris, and must be considered as belonging to the next subdivision. Acute inflammatory glaucoma (formerly called arthritic ophthalmia).— The pressure-symptoms are most clearly marked. A premonitory stage is only exceptionally absent. The complete loss of quantitative per- ception (glaucoma fulminans) in a few hours may be noticed as demand- ing immediate treatment. A perfect intermission does not occur after an acute attack; there is, as the rule, a considerable remission, with partial restoration of vision. The further course varies ; sometimes the sight is lost from chronic inflammation, sometimes its gradual diminution is attended only with symptoms of increased pressure, and not unfrequently it is brought about by the repetition of acute attacks. Glaucoma consecutiinm.—A name for the cases in which it results from other processes, as after corneal cicatrices, staphyloma, iritis, or sclerotico-choroiditis (see translation of A. von Grate's ' Memoii's,' New Syd. Soc, 1856, pp. ,370-80). Glaucoma absolutwm, consmnmatum.—AVhen quantitative perception of light has been lost for some time, and treatment is of no use in respect to vision. Prof. Grafe has had occasion to repeat iridectomy, owing to fresh symptoms of pressure, only ten or eleven times; three or four of these cases were in the latest periods (of glaucomatous degeneration), where the effect of the operation is always uncertain ; four times owing to the first operation having been imperfectly performed, so that only three cases remain in which the effect of a single iridectomy was insufficient. The repetition of the iridectomy was successful in two out of the three. The repetition had the desired eftect in all the cases in which the first operation had been badly performed, except in a single patient where, at a later period, symptoms of increased pressure again appeared. These numbers are of some value, for the total number of operations on account of glaucomatous conditions amounted to more than 400. Prof. Griife concludes his paper Avith a number of remarks on the prognosis and treatment, in which he calls attention specially to two forms of glaucoma, one secondary to sclerectasia posterior, the other accompanied by contraction of the visual field towards the outer side, and points out that other means of treatment, such as leeches or laxatives, which were previously inefll"ective, have a beneficial action after iridectomy.BEPOET ON SURGERY. 262 J. C. Solomon, some account of the operations practised in the nine- teenth century ibr the relief of tension of the eyeball, glaucoma, &c. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i, 450, &c.). Prof. Arlt ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 347). Prof. A. Coccius ('Arch. f. Ophth.,' iv,. part i, p. i). Dr. Magavly, case of iridectomy; no return for two years, &c. (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' iii, 226). Prof. A. vonOiuife, clinical lecture on neuro-rclinitia (' Klin. Monatsbl. f. Augcnh.,' 186.3, P- 3)- i.3tli- Nov., 1862.—Auguste P—, ait. twenty years, unmarried; menstruated since fifteen ; of healthy but somewhat delicate constitution; has suflei-ed during last year from attacks of head- ache, sometimes ending in vomiting; in the intervals there were weeks during which she was entirely free from pain. A more than usually severe attack occurred three weeks ago. • The patient says she moaned many hours for pain, principally seated in the back of the head; then followed repeated severe vomiting, sopor; and, finally, a perfectly sense- less condition, which is said to have lasted for three days. When she recovered her consciousness she was extremely depressed, and could not raise herself in bed, owing to the violence of the pain in her head ; in both arms there were lancinating pains; the left was very weak and could not be completely raised; the corresponding hand could not be perfectly closed. Objects appeared double to the two eyes, cloudy to each eye separately. Some days later she noticed that the left eye squinted; the vision also became somewhat worse. Since then she has had at various times exacerbations of the headache, which, however, have never gone on to insensibility. The paresis of the left arm soon disappeared ; the eyes remain in the same condition. The patient has, however, so far recovered as to be able to walk a quarter of a mile from her home to the hospital. The first thing to be noticed to-day is the squinting position of the left eye. It is at least three lines to the inner side of its normal posi- tion when she is looking straightforwards. As to the mobility, we find, after closing the right eye, that the cornea cannot be moved even as far as the middle line from its abnormal position. This proves that the abducens is completely paralysed; we must admit, there is also some degree of contraction of the internal rectus, for a simple paralysis of the abducens would not be sufiicient to account for either the great convergence when she is looking straightforwards or the imperfect rotation of the cornea towards the middle line. Just as the rectus extermis has lost the power of voluntary contraction, so has the rectus internus lost that of volimtary relaxation. Independently of the paralysis, there is a disturbance of the antagonistic equilibrium, as is so frequently seen, either as a consequence of paralysis or as a coeff'ect of intracranial diseases.* No other muscle is paralysed; the eye can be moved from its abnor- * The contemporaneous development of a contraction of the internal rectus may, indeed, be of pathognomonic importance, just as much as a pni-alysis with con- traction of an extremity. Sucli mixed affections occur, in general, when there exist causes of both pressure and irritation, the latter acting on the antagonisticNEUHO-RETINITIS. 363 raal position yet further inwards, indeed as far as normally, upwards, downwards, and into the intermediate positions. . ^ Let us now proceed to the next symptom, the interference with vision. She sees double; the diplopia disappears on the closure of one eye, and has all the characters proper to such a position of the globe. The double images are direct,* placed on the same level, and stand upright; they are at a great distance from one another in the middle line,°and they separate still further when the object is moved towards the left side." The diplopia is not, however, the only symptom of defec- tive vision. If she closes an eye, it matters not whether it is the right or the left, the vision remains very indistinct, which, as you know, is not the case in simple strabismus from a muscular affection. We can readily imagine that the power of accommodating may be also para- lysed. Such a suspicion appears to me improbable, owing to the per- fectly free action of the pupil, for it very rarely happens in such cases that the tensor choroidere is affected without the sphincter. Trials with convex glasses, which we now accordingly apply, show that the accom- modation is either not at all or ouly very slightly affected ; and, on the other hand, that the acuteness of vision is much diminished, for with the right eye she deciphers specimens of print only under a visual angle thirty times greater, and with the left eye only under one twenty times greater, than the normal (Snellen's letters, No. xii, with the right eye and + lo to 5", with the left eye and the same glass to 7"; No. vi, right side with + 5 not quite to 3", left side to 4"; the letter A in No. CC with both eyes to 12', and, indeed, furthest without any glass—illumination that of average daylight). No way of explaining this amblyopia appears more easy than to assume that the optic nerve is paralysed, for the same intracranial cause which has produced paralysis of the abducens, contraction of the intemus, and the former paresis of the left arm, may well be supposed to have interfered with the functions of the optic nerve. In such a condition as the present, examination of the field of vision is of special importance. We know tliat one-sided lesions in the substance of the brain, whether apoplexies, centres of inflammation, or tumours, whenever they interfere with the optic nerve, produce the so-called same-sided hemiopia. There is a hemiopic deficiency in the visual field of each eye to the left side when the cerebral lesion is on the right side—to the right, when the brain is affected on the left side—because the para- lysed optic tract proceeding from the diseased half of the brain sends its fasciculus lateralis to the outer half of the retina on the same side, its fasciculus cruciatus to the inner half of the retina on the opposite side. Such a hemiopia is characterised, for simple anatomical reasons, muscles J such a condition is, accordingly, far more likely to occur in encephalo- meningitis than in simple hreaking-up of the cerebral nervous substance by extra- vasations of blood. The squint which accompanies the well-known basal meningitis of children is generally the result of such a mixed condition, and not of a pure paralysis. * Perhaps, " corresponding " would be a better term than " direct j" the meaning is, that the image on the right side belongs to the right eye, that on the left to the left eye.—T. W.hkport on suroehy. ^64 by its limits being abrupt, so that portions of the visual field, in whicli the acuteuess oi' vision is relatively normal, impinge directly on por- tions entirely defective. The condition is similar to that in an.-rsthesia from section of the fifth nerve, where the loss of sensibility ends abruptly in the middle line of the face. It may be readily understood that the same must be the result when one optic tract behind the commissure is rendered incapable of performing its functions, owing to some cause at the base of the cranium. If the optic nerve is com- pressed in front of the commissure, it will, of course, only be prevented from conducting the impressions of the eye of the same side. Should some cause at the base of the skull, whether behind or in front of the commissure, press out from the middle line against the optic nerves, as not unfrequently happens, then the fasciculi cruciati will especially sufler, the inner half of each retina will be paralysed, and the outer half of the visual field will be aff"ectcd; this is the so-called lateral hemiopia. Touwill readily iinderstand that it does not end so abruptly as the same-sided form, for the effect of the pressure is not limited to some particular bundles of fibres; the inner bundles are tlie parts first and chiefly affected, the action gradually diminishing from within out- wards towards the fasciculi laterales. And thus, in respect to the visual field, it will never happen that a part in which the vision is relatively normal will border upon a perfect defect; there will be a gradual transition from the one to the other. If we now examine our patient in this respect, we find that there is neither the one nor the other kind of hemiopia, but that an irregular portion to the lower and inner side is wanting in each visual field ; when strongly illuminated, she sees in the directions just named the motions of a hand as far as the normal limits, the exceutrical vision being only indistinct; but when the illumi- nation is less, this portion of the visual field is totally wanting. Such a contraction of the visual field may arise from cerebral causes when thei'e are multiple or dift'use centres of disease, or from basal causes, such as exudations, impeding the action of the fasciculi laterales of both sides ; it is, however, rare for it to arise from such causes—its more frequent origin is disease of the optic nerve or retina. "We have, therefore, a special reason for asking wdiether any peripheral lesion of the optic nerve complicates the disease—I say special reason, because, owing to the frequency with whicli neuro-retinitis forms a complication of intracranial processes, it is generally necessary to examine this pos- sibility in the diagnosis. Examination with the ophtlialmoscope shows, in fact, great changes in the optic nerve and retina; especially on the right side is the pa]nlla of a deep-gray colour, opaque, and slightly swollen; its choroidal limit invisible, owing to the cloudiness of the super- jacent retina ; the retina over a space several lines in diameter is dif- fusely clouded ; when much magnified, this cloudiness presents here and there an appearance of delicate stripes; nowhere are there apoplexies or groups of opaque spots, or the yellowish-Avhite patches, characteristic of fatty degeneration ; the veins are much enlarged and serpentine, at places rendered indistinct by the turbid retina, and then again appear- ing more distinctly. On the left side these changes are undoubtedly present, though not to the same degree. The retinal lesion perfectlyNEUUO-RETINITIS. 265 explains tlie condition of the vision, and tliere can be no doubt that it is also the cause of the contraction of the visual field, for it is a matter of experience that such processes scarcely ever leave it intact, although, of course, we cannot account for the exact form of the contraction. Our (liaffnositi is accordingly—hilaferal nenro-retinitis, with consecutive amblyopia, and circumscribed exceutrical contraction of the field of vision, VI compani/ u-ith an iniracranial lesion. The latter must be considered, from' its symptoms, as a basal meningitis, possibly de- veloped from chronic * meningitis, which had existed for a longer period. It is possible that this inflammatory process may result from some other disorganization, of which, however, there are no sufficient .symptoms. The constitution of the patient gives us no assistance. The lungs are healthy, nor is there any hereditary tendency to tuber- culosis. Examination of the circulatory and abdominal orga,ns, of the digestive functions, and of the urine, gives a perfectly negative result. The history shows no trace of earlier scrophulosis or syphilis. We are, therefore, obliged to hold to the simple supposition just given, which is, indeed, supported by tolerably frequent analogous cases. The prognosis in general appears dubious ; the present attack of meningitis appears to have reached its conclusion, and thus there is no fear of its extending further. But, on the other hand, there is no reason why it should not recur. Nor can any certain prognosis in respect to the power of vision be deduced from the existing symptoms. Perfect restoration is improbable, because such processes of neuro-reti- nitis lead, as the rule, to partial atrophy of the optic nerve and retina in cases where the visual field has once become contracted. Among more favorable symptoms we find that the margin of the visual field is still at a considerable distance from the point of fixation; that the power of distinguishing, though much lessened, is still tolerable in comparison with the condition of the retina, and that, according to her account, there has been no further deterioration for eight days. The prognosis is certainly more favorable m respect to the power of distinguishing than in reference to the field of vision. In general, we may assert that this is by no means an example of the worst course of neuro-retinitis, for in other cases, of which we have at this moment two examples in the clinic, all power of vision is entirely lost in a few days. As the patient has yet attacks of cephalagia and periodical febrile augmentations of the temperature, the treatment will consist of local bloodletting behind the ears, of nitrate of potash with the infusion of senna internally, and of a derivative regimen. Novemler—second i)resentation of the patient.—In general, she has been better; there has been no pain in the head for the last six days. The condition of the muscles and fundus of the eye, and the de- terioration of vision, remain essentially the same. To-day, as the acute symptoms have subsided, we shall stop the medicines recently ordered ; we shall direct that a seton be applied through the nape of the neck, and that the bichloride be administered internally, such means being tliose from which wo have seen the best eSect in chronic meningitis unattended by any special indications.REPORT ON SUnOERY. 266 4th Decemher—third presentation of the patient.—She looks much better, and has gained both in colour and tone, a proof that the treat- ment, whicli has no directly strengthening property, is exercising a beneficial iuilueuce on the morbid condition. The abducens is still completely paralysed, for wlien the right eye is closed, tlie left cannot be rotated over the middle line ; the contraction of the internus has somewhat diminished, as is proved by the less amount of deviation—by about a line—when she looks directly forwards, and by the increased power she now possesses of moving the eye outwards towards the middle line. The statement of the patient, tliat she has seen considerably better for some days, has just been accurately tested. Patients often make such egregious errors that it is always necessary to submit their accounts to trial, before any deduction can be drawn. In this case the examination has proved a satisfactory improvement, though it has shown that the visual field of each eye still remains in the same defective con- dition; it has demonstrated that the acuteness of the right, which was formerly the worse eye, is ten times better, and that of the left, now the weaker eye, is four times greater. She now deciphers Snellen's letters No. xii with + J^, by the right eye to 4', by the left with + to ; No. i, right eye with + | to 4" ; left eye. No. ii with + to 5"; and recognises with both eyes the letter C at a distance of more than 30'. The ophthalmoscope shows that the retinal veins are less swollen and serpentine; it also proves that white discoloration of the papilla and atrophy of the arteries, so ominous as signs of commencing atrophy, are not in progress. Such a course is certainly very cheering in respect to the further treatment, but it will require a longer period before the final result is decided. Dr. Zehender appends to this lecture a note, in which he states that, according to a letter of the 26th December, 1862, from Prof von Grafe, the patient had continued to improve, both in her general condition, and in her power of vision; the paralysi^ of the abducens had disappeared, but the visual field remained in the same state. Retinitis leuccemica.—Dr. Liebreich has figured in his atlas an example of this disease. He remarks that it is characterised by the pale hue of all the retinal and choroidal vessels, and especially of the retinal veins. The latter are large and tortuous, the papilla is very pale, and the retina around it is clouded; there are little irregular spots in the region of the macula lutea. Finally, there are numerous brilliantly white, round spots, which only differ by their very peripheral position from those occurring in Bright's disease. The author considers that this affection depends on the general condition just as much as the retinitis accompanying syphilis and albuminuria. In his opinion, idiopathic retinitis, or, in general, idiopathic diseases of the retina, are extremely uncommon. "Whilst idiopathic affections of the choroid are far more frequent than those caused by syphilis or other constitutional diseases, lesions of the retina are the result either of diseases of the choroid, injuries, &c., or of irregularities in the general circulation of the body, of disease of the heart and kidneys, of syphilis, &c.; such is, at least, almost always the case when the affection of the retina is sym- metrically spread over a large portion of the fundus. iTie author hasCATHETEUISM OF THE EUSTACHIAN TUBE. 267 seen six cases of retinitis leucaemica, and has found in all essentially the same condition; in one case Dr. von Eecklingshausen found that the white spots were caused by the same form of sclerosis of the nerve- fibres, as that which occurs in the retinitis of Bright's disease according to H. Midler. J. C. Wordsworth, case of spontaueous pulsation of the artena cen- tralis retinffi during temporary faintness (' Ophth. Hosp. Eep.,' iv, m)- H. D. Noyes, effects of albuminaria on the retina (' Amer. Med. Times,' 1862, ii,323). Dr. Blessig, on retinal haemorrhage (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' iv, 273). Prof. A. von Grrafe clinical lecture on a case of retro-bulbar abscess, separation of the retina, &c. (' Klin. Monatsbl. f. Augeuh., i, 49). A. Mooren, on retinitis pigmentosa (ib., p. 93). H. Walton, case of retinal separation, in which a puncture was made for the evacuation of fluid ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 363). J. H, Jackson, on defects of sight in brain disease (' Ophth. Hosp. Eep.,' Remeralopia.—E. Porster, on the limits of the field of vision, and on hemeralopia ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, p. 475). A. Netter, on dark rooms in the treatment (Paris, Gr. Bailliere, and 'Ann. d'Ocul.'vol. xlix, p. 164). M. Bitot, on a conjunctival affection, hitherto unde- scribed, accompanying hemeralopia ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 284), and J. A. Villemin (ib., p. 332). Dr. Eitner, epidemic of hemeralopia ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, p. 245). EAE. At the request of Dr. Kramer, a committee was appointed by the Berlin Medical Society to examine some points in dispute between him and Erhard. It was composed of Krieger, Leyden, von Eeckling- hausen, Teuber, Virchow, and reported to the following efiect (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, p. 258): The programme drawn up by Dr. Kramer states— 1. That when air is blown into the Eustachian tube by means of the catheter, it really passes into the tympanic cavity, though the mem- brana tympani is entire, because— 2. The accompanying sound is produced by friction of the ingoing air against the membrana tympani and the walls of the tympanic cavity. Alterations in the tube or in the walls of the tympanic cavity cause alterations in the sound, by means of which the former may be recognised. 3. The air that is thus blown into the tympanic cavity, when the membrana tympani is entire, necessarily returns back into the pharynx through the Eustachian tube if the blowing is continued. 4. Catheterism enables us to recognise, not only permeability of the tube in general, but also very various degrees of contraction of it. 5. The tube is always pervious, yet it does not follow— a. That the tympanic cavity always contains air, and— h. By no means that it is not the seat of the functional disturbance. 6. According to my conception of the action of air driven through the instrument, the catheter is indispensably necessary only in theIlEPOUT ON SUllGEllY. 68 treatment of frco exudations in and on the tul)c and tympanic cavity. 7. Bougies can be passed into and through the Eustachian tube as far as the tym])auie cavity, by means of the catheter, and are decidedly required for tlie treatment of strictures of the tube. Dr. Kramer commenced his demonstrations by showing to the com- mittee a series of Eustachian catheters and bougies, liy means of an otoscope, provided with three ear-pieces, so that three members of the committee could listen at once, he pointed out that—• 1. The listeners hear a loud full blowing sound, which appears to arise close to their ears, when he blows through an Eustachian catheter into the end intended for the patient. 2. This sound is in no Avay changed, when a piece of goldbeater's skin is interposed between the apertures of the tube and the ear-pieces. 3. On the other hand, it becomes notably altered when a plug is placed at any point between the tube and the ear-piece, or when the tube is compressed at any point. In the former case no sound penetrates through the tube to the ear of the listener ; in the latter it becomes, according to the degree of compression, weaker and weaker, and at the same time more distant, until at length it entirely dis- appears. Dr. Kramer then presented a number of patients. 1. The full, blowing sound, which apparently arises close to the ear of the listener, was heard in one case by means of the otoscope when air was blown through the catheter introduced into the tube. 2. In another case Dr. Kramer showed that this full sound could not bo produced by blowing air through catheters jN'os. i and 2, but only through No. 3. 3. A female, in whom no sound could be heard through the otoscope when air was blown with the usual- intensity; when, however, air was forced more powerfully and for a longer period through higher number of the catheter, a weak (distant) sound was perceived, which increased in intensity, but then again became at times weaker, or entirely dis- appeared. It occurred by fits and starts, and gave the impression that there were some obstacles to the transmission of sound through the tube to the ear of the listener, and that these were occasionally removed or overcome by the blowing. 4. In another case air was blown in through No. 2 ; a weak-blowing sound was heard ; with No. 4 it was somewhat stronger, but did not attain by any means to the normal full sound. f,. Dr. Kramer also showed on another patient that the full sound could not be produced with Nos. i and 2, but only with No. 3. To demonstrate the passage of instruments into the tube (as far as the tympanic cavity). Dr. Kramer employed thin caoutchouc bougies. On these, white dots marked the spots which corresponded to the posterior aperture of the catheter when the point was at the anterior aperture, or ^, i, l i, and 2 inches beyond. Dr. Kramer was able, in three cases, to push the bougie through the catheter introduced into the tube as far as the third mark, so that its point must have projected beyond the end of the cuthctcr an inch and269 CATHETEllISM OF THE EUSTACHl-lN TUBE. a half, and if it remained in the tube, must probably have reached to the tympanic cavity. The bougie could not be seen in the pharynx, and presented no particular bending on its being removed. These demonstrations showed that— a. Very various sounds are heard by the listener when air is blown into the patient's tube. The difference consists essentially in varia- tions of the intensity, so that the sounds sometimes appear to arise near to, sometimes at a distance from, the ear. Such sounds are probably produced only at the pharyngeal aperture of the tube, and the in- tensity with which they are heard varies not only according to the streugth of the blowing, but also according to whether the tube conducts the sound well or whether it presents some obstacle to the transmission of the acoustic waves. Such impediments may occa- sionally (Case 3)—probably when they are situated near the guttural termination of the tube—be temporarily removed or overcome by stronger blowing. That the air, which is blown in, passes into the tympanic cavity, is not proved by any of these demonstrations. b. It is probable, but not proved, that the bougies were introduced into the tube. At the proposal of the committee. Dr. Kramer undertook the following experiments:—Two little glass tubes, of about two milli- metres in diameter and an inch and a half in length, were so made that their anterior end was dilated like a trumpet, their posterior end blown-out into a sphere; the latter was entirely closed in the tube a, but opened and covered with goldbeater's skin in the other, b. In this way, some approximation was made to the conditions of the tube and tympanic cavity. If a little lock of cotton was placed in the anterior aperture, and then air blown in by means of a catheter of moderate calibre, the lock was driven a little further, but then soon thrown out again by the stream of air. If, before blowing, the lock Avas introduced somewhat further into the narrower part of the tube, it could not be driven the least further, even by the strongest blowing; it remained exactly at the same spot. On attempting to inject water by means of an India-rubber ball, it was seen to pass a certain distance along both tubes, but not a drop could be driven directly into the spheres; finally, after repeatedly inclining the tubes, blowing, and injecting, a few drops ]-an along the walls into the spheres. Under certain conditions the injected water passed into the sphere of the tube b. The following seemed necessary i—i. That the tube should be two millimetres wide; 2. That the thickness of the stream of water should not exceed half a millimetre (catheter No. i). And 3. That the direction of the latter should be as exactly parallel as possible to the axis of the glass tube. Bcmomtrations on the subject.*—I. Dr. Kramer attempted to in- troduce the bougie into the tube. In many cases he met with such resistance that he could not push on the bougie. In two subjects out of five he succeeded. In one of them the tympanic cavity and tube were opened from above ; the point of the sound was in the tympanic cavity. * Dr. Kramer himself introduced the catheters and bougies in the following expe- riments oil the subject.270 IIEPOIIT ON SUllGERY. IT. In oue subject obstucles were found to passing the bougie; examination with the otoscope wlien air was blown into the tube showed that there was some impediment to the conduction of sound, The bougie, after it had been introduced for one inch, met with resistance • this was overcome on the right side by repeatedly drawing the bouo-ie backwards and pusliing it forwards, so that it then penetrated an inch and a half. Now the stream of air had also become free. On the left side there was the same resistance at the corresponding spot; it was not forced, but the tube was opened. The point of the bougie was in the tube close to the tympanic cavity; the tube, just before opening into the tympanic cavity, presented a bend, and passed in an oblique direction ; far from being contracted, it was very wide. On the right side the bougie was introduced, and the tube opened; it presented the same bend, and the point of the bougie struck directly on the head of the malleus. III. A dilute solution of iodine was injected through the catheter into the Eustachian tube of a subject on whom the bougie could be easily passed, and where a full sound could be heard by the oto- scope. The tympanic cavity and posterior end of the tube were then opened, and the starch test applied; there was no trace of reaction. The same experiment was repeated on two other tubes; in the one there was a dubious trace of reaction, in the other none at all. Chloride of iron gave no trace of reaction in the tympanic cavity and the posterior end of the tube, after a solution of ferrocyanide of potas- sium had been injected. IV. In a case where the bougie could be readily introduced into the right tube, and a full free sound could be heard by the otoscope, the tympanic cavity was opened from above, a little lock of cotton was introduced, and the aperture was covered with a small watch-glass, which was rendered air-tight by the use of cement. Air was now blown through the catheter into the tube. Although by auscultation the fuU sound could be constantly heard, the cotton in the tympanic cavity did not show the slightest trace of motion. Little drops of water on the floor of the cavity showed a slight change of level when air was forcibly blown, evidently] owing to the increased atmospheric pressure. Since these experiments on blowing had given essentially negative results, Dr. Kramer was induced by the committee to institute some further essays in the following manner : Extremely delicate elastic catheters, through which injections and insuflJations' could be made, were introduced through the silver catheter into the tube, just in the same way as the bougies previously mentioned. It had, indeed, been found, that water could be injected into the spheres of the glass apparatus when a very fine injecting canula was used instead of the nozzle of the India-rubber ball; it was by no means necessary to push the canula far up the glass tube—a positive result was gained when the point of the canula was within the anterior aperture of the glass tube. V. 16th March.—Catheter No. 3 was introduced into both tubes ofCATHETEUISM OF THE EUSTACHIAN TUBE. 271 a male subject, but on blowing into tliem tliere was heard only a very distant dull, not a sonorous near, blowing sound. The bougie, one millimetre in size, could only be pushed three quarters of an inch, and then met with an invincible resistance. After the tympanic cavities had been opened from above, the point of the bougie was found to be fixed on the left side at a flat osseous projection, on the right _ side in a narrow portion of the cartilaginous tube. There were no signs of a pathological change. VI. i8th March.—AuBcidtation gave on both sides of a male subject a full, sonorous sound. A bougie, one millimetre in size, could be passed on both sides through catheter No. 4 an inch and a half, and thus into the tympanic cavity; an elastic catheter of two and a half millimetres, open anteriorly, passed only three quarters of an inch. Through it a sonorous, blowing sound could be heard, which, it may be incidently noticed, must have originated in the tympanic cavity, and not in the guttural extremity, as the instrument passed so deeply. A solution of carmine, which was now injected through the elastic catheter, was afterwards found in abundance in the tympanic cavity. The same experiment was repeated on the left side—with this difterence, that the elastic catheter had an aperture laterally, and not at its extremity. On opening the tympanic cavity, none of the solution was found. VII. On the body of a man, aged 32, a sonorous, full blowing sound was heard by catheterization and auscultation of the left tube. The elastic bougie (i millimetre) easily passed an inch and a half; the elastic catheter, open at its extremity, would only pass three quarters ,of an inch, but the sonorous sound could be also heard through it. A solution of carmine was injected, and then air was blown in, a crackling sound was heard, and a large amount of the solution was found on opening the tympanic cavity. VIII. In the case of a girl, aged 21, where the bougie of one milli- metre passed an inch and a half, and the catheter, open at its end, three quarters of an inch, black ink was injected, and afterwards blown- in through the elastic catheter. A very crackling sound was heard, which, as in the previous experiment, must have been caused by the direct entrance of the air into the tympanic cavity, for the point of the catheter was found at the point of union of the osseous and car- tilaginous portions of the tube, exactly as in the previous experiment, when the tympanic cavity and tube were opened from above. The tympanic cavity and the cells of the mastoid process contained a large quantity of ink. IX. 28th March.—On a female subject, a bougie of one millimetre could be passed an inch and a half into the left tube, whilst one three fifths of a millimetre in size only penetrated seven eighths of an inch on the right side. There was found on the right side a con- siderable lateral deviation of the osseous portion of the tube. From these demonstrations and experiments the committee draws the following deductions: • 1. Air does not pass into the tympanic cavity, when it is blown through the wide silver catheter introduced into the pharyngeal orifice272 llliPOKT OX SURGKIIY. of the tube, tlie meiubraua lympaiii being entire. Kor cau, iu that manner, any considerable (juaafcity of a liquid be injected into the tympanic cavity, even where tlie ))crincability of tlie tube has been proved by tlie bougie and auscultation. On the other hand, both Bucceed when a tine elastic catheter is introduced as far as the osseous portion of the tube. 2. The sounds produced by blowing arise iu the tympanic cavity, only when the second method is employed; those which are perceived, when air is blown through the ordinary silver cathether, probably arise within the pharyngeal extremity of the tube. 3. A change in the latter shows some obstacle to the conduction of sound; it also shows whether the obstacle is moved or not by blowing, but no conclusion can be drawn from it as to changes in tlie walls of the tube or tympanic cavity. 4. It must remain for the present a question whether " free exuda- tions " can be removed from the tympanic cavity by blowing through a very delicate catheter. 5. It has been proved beyond all doubt, that bougies can be introduced through the catheter as far as the tympanic cavity. 6. The value of bougies in respect to diagnosis and treatment can therefore be scarcely doubted. M. Triquet, clinical lectures on the diseases of the ear (pp. 260, Paris, P. Savy). J. Erhard, clinical otiatry (Berl., Hirschwald). Dr. Voltolini, the dissection and examination of the organ of hearing (i pi., pp. 27, Bresl., E. Morgenstern). Dr. Erhard, on physical diagnosis ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, p. 424); and reply by Dr. Troltsch (ib., 475). J. G-ruber, cases (' Spit. Zeit.,' 1863, p. 29, Ac). J. Boke,, contributions on pathological anatomy (ib., p. 377, &c.). H. Schwartze, retrospect of the last ten years (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 116, p, 248, &c.) A. Lucae (' Arch, f pathoL Anat.,' xxv, 339). Dr. Voltolini, dissec- tions (ib., xxvii, 159). Dr. Moos, on the sudden occurrence of deaf- ness ('Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1863, p. 641, Ac). A. Pagenstecher, report on 220 cases ('Deutsche Ivlinik,' 1863, p, 399, &c.). JEustacliian tube.—Dr. Gruber, on pathological states of the tube ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 280). A. Politzer, new treatment of obstructions ('Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1863, p. 84, &c.; and Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit., 1863, p. 235, &c.). H. Schwartze (.'Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, p. 367). Tympanic caviti/.—J. Hintou, sebaceous tumour (' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' ix, 264). i)r. Schliller, on the diagnosis of catarrh ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 396, &c.). Internal ear.—5. Gruber, on caries ('AVien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 4, &c.). Dr. Voltolini, on diseases of the labyrinth and auditory nerve ('Sachs' Med. Alman.,' 1864, p. 292). LIP. Cancer of the Up.—Dr. W. Strieker (' Arch. f. pathol. Anat.,' xxy, 600) speaks in high tenns of a thesis on this subject by Dr. L. Lortet (laris, 1861), and gives an analysis of the portion on etiology.273 CA.XCKll 01'' THE LIP. Predisposing causes.—(a) Sex.—It has long been noticed that cancer of the lips principally occurs in the male sex. In different regions women form from one twentieth to one fifth of the cases, as is shown in the following list:—Lebert (Paris), 15 males, 3 females (' Tr. d. Mai. Cane.'). Gault, ao males, i female. Bertin (Montpellier), 24 males, 3 females. Meker (Laibacli), 127 males, i_5 females ('Jenaische Ann.,' 1850, ii, 480). Heurtaux (Paris), 69 males, 10 females ('These, du Cancroide,' Paris, J 860). Bruns (Tubingen), 50 males, 5 females ('Handb. d. Chir.,' 18^9, ii, _53j). Barrier ('Gaz. Med.de Lyon,' 1852, and by letter) observed 71 cases, from iS^o-j;^, 6a males and 9 females; in 1^9 cases the lower and in 12 the upper lip was affected; of the latter, 6 were males, and 6 females. In 181 cases collected by Des- granges ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 18^4) there were 158 males, 23 females; tlie l^art affected was in 169 the lower, in 22 the npper lip, and in 6 the angle of the mouth. All these cases together give 527 males, 69 females, or a ratio of 7,^0 to i. (d) In 2 52 cases, only one occurred under the age of twenty,—in a girl of sixteen. Prom the thirtieth year the disease increases in fre- quency up to extreme old age, the number of the cases being compared with the number of those living at each particular age. Of cour.se the absolute number of cases diminishes in proportion to the advance in years, for at the age of 60 there remains only a fifth, at 70 an eighth, at 75 a twelfth, at 85 a ninety-third part of those born; the very aged, besides, rarely agree to an operation. Lebert found in 17 cases of cancer of the lip 2 aged from 30 to 35, I from 35 to 40, 2 from 40 to 4J, 7 from 45 to 50, a from 50 to 55, 3 from 60 to 65 years. Bruns found that the disease commenced in his 55 cases in a between 20 to 30, in 9 from 30 to 40, in 11 from 40 to 50, in 13 from 50 to 60, in 15 from 60 to 70, and in 5 from 70 to 80 years. (c) Temperament, occupation.—Dr. Lortet believes that the san- guine temperament predisposes to this disease. Most of the cases seen by him were blonds, with red faces and fully developed capillary circu- lation. Both Lortet and Bruns agree in considering the disease more frequent in those residing in the country. In 181 cases collected by Lortet there \yere 107 countrymen, la weavers, 4 gentlemen, 4 masons, 4 shoemakers, and 4 joiners, 2 wheelwrights, a wood sawyers, a servants, and 19 without fixed occupation. The excessive amount of agi'iculturists does not in any way correspond to a predominance of the country population in the nine departments from which these patients were drawn. There M'ere 1,095,000 residents in the country out of a total population of 3,924,000, or rather more than a quarter, ' whilst the number of cases occurring in agriculturists is over five ninths. (n) Clinical and geographical conditions.—Heurtaux collected twelve cases of hereditary origin, to which Lortet is able to add four or five more, a number too small for any deduction. More abundant thou^li yet insufficient, are the materials for determining the geographi- cal distribution of the disease. 18EEPOET ON SURGERY. 274 There were i8i cases out of a total of 3217 operations performed at Lyon from 1850 to i860. In Sweden the disease appears to be very rare. Eossander, principal surgeon to the large hospital in Stockholm, says, "Trom iS ^Jo to 1859, out of a total of 2200 operations, 17 were performed on 16 per- sons—12 men and 4 women, for ' cancer of the face ;' all the patients were peasants from the neighbourhood of the city. The disease seems to bo yet rarer in the mountains than in the lowlands. The re- maining hospitals of Sweden are small, so that the total number of operations performed in them can scarcely amount to more than that performed in Stockholm." There was thus] at Lyon i operation for cancer of the lip in 17; at Stockholm i in 137, or, deducting cases of cancer of other parts of the face, about i in 200 operations. According to a letter from Dr. L. Benjamin in Hamburg, only two cases occurred there from 18^4 to 1857. The disease appears to be very rare in Prussia. On the other hand, according to Melzer, 453 cases of cancer, and among them 142 cases of cancer of the lip, occurred in a total of 27800 patients, in sixty-two years, at the hospital of Laibach. Switzerland.—According to Vogt, Socin, and Jung, the disease is tolerably common at Bern and Zurich, rare at Basle, where in thirty- eight years only three cases were observed at the siu'gical clinic. According to Bertin, there were 33 cases of cancer of the lip in 895 operations performed at MontpeUier from i8_5i to 1857. According to Berrut, three cases of cancer of the lower lip occmred amongst 1607 surgical cases at Marseilles in 1857. Dr. Lindermayer, who has practised at Athens since the liberation of Greece, had observed only two cases up to i860, and other medical men had only seen a few rare cases in the country districts. Dr. P. Paure, who for years has been travelling in Asia Minor, Syria, Palestine, Mesopotamia, Egypt, and Nubia, found every kind of cancer scarcely known in those regions. Dr. H. Barth, the celebrated traveller in Africa, observed only a single case of cancer (in a man), although consiilted by innumerable patients. In the tribe of the Beni-Meluk, on the Niger, some days' joui"ney west of Tombuctu, he met, however, with an affection of the skin somewhat resembling cancer of the lip ; the ti-ibe was not, indeed, purely African, but composed of a mixture of Berbers and Arabs. Livingstone and Lantre never met with this disease among the aborigines of Southern Africa. The latter, who passed many years among the Bassutos, to the north of Cape Colony, never saw a single case of cancer of the face, an affection which is by no means rare among the white inhabitants of Cape Colony. So far as is at present known, cancer of the lip occurs most frequently in central Europe, a region of which, however, we have the fullest knowledge. Tobacco has been repeatedly blamed as a potent cause, and especially smoking short pipes. In 179^ S. T. Sommering ('De morb. vas. absorb., p. 109) considered that the pressure of the pipe on the lower hp causedCANCEU OF THE LIP. 275 cancer. Eigal and Bonnet blame the irritation of teeth injured by the pipe. Eechnitz maintains that cancer of the lip is very frequent in Hungary, because the acrid juice of the very strong tobacco, which is chewed or smoked there, irritates the lips. Glintner (' Prag. Viertelj.,' vol. xlii, p. 64), remarks, that almost all his patients had been passionate smokers; on the second or third day after the operation, he found them secretly smoking behind ,the bed-hangings. Bouisson ('Montpellier Medical,' 1859) adduces forty-nine cases of cancer of the lip, all of which, were in smokers. On the other hand, Bardeleben has operated on many patients in Greifswald, who had never smoked (' Canstatt's Jahresber.,' J 854, iv, 183). Fleury, in Clermont, has observed similar cases. Bruns had only ten great smokers in fifty-five cases, and one, in whom the disease afiected the left angle of the mouth, asserted that he had always held his pipe in the right side of his mouth. Heurtaux also saw such cases ; four out of nine cases reported by him had never smoked, and in five smokers the disease was only in two where the pipe usually rested. Lortet could trace no effect of smoking in the eases at the Hotel-Dieu at Lyon. According to Heiirtaux, Lemarchand had seen at Tinistere, where almost all the women smoke short pipes, about 100 cases of cancer of the lower lip in men, and not a single case in a woman. "We have already mentioned, that in the East, where everybody smokea, cancer of the lip does not occur. Further geogi'aphical and statistical facts must be collected, before any certain decision can be reached as to the etiological conditions. Harelip.—T. Bryant, statistics, date of operation (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i, 339). D. P.Smith ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1863,1,207). "W. Steinlin ('Arch. £ Klin. Chir.,' iii, 125). M. Broca, extraordinary- case (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 125). Stammering.—2. H. Wolff, new treatment (' Deutsche Klin,,' 1862, p. 228). A. Clemens ('Joxirn. f Kinderkr.,' vol. 38, p. 315). E. Lichtenstein, on laloplegia (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, p. 62, &c.). Tongue.—H. Demme, on glossitis ('Schweiz. Zeitschr.,' ii, 73). A. Prichard, sphacelus (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, ii, 487). M. Toucher, removal by the ^craseur, haemorrhage, ligature of the carotid ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1862, p. 518). Dr. Nottingham ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1863, i, 641). E. Bockel, temporary resection of the lower jaw, removal of cancer of the floor of the mouth, &c. (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 304), ImmoUlity of the lower >«;. — ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 475, &c.: 'Gaz. Hebd.,' 1862, p. 699). C. Heath, Esmarch's operation ('Lancet,' 1862, li, 443, and 'Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. xxxv, p. 323). B. Holt (ib., 1863, i, 91). A. Verneml ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 97). W. Grube, true anchylosis ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iv, 168). Nares.~W. Lawrence, new operation for the removal of a large mass of polypi ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 491 ; ' Gaz. d. H6p.,' 1862, p. 530). On rhinoscopy ('Arch. Gen.' 1863, i. 333). Palate.—Mv. Syme, tumour of hard palate (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862,1, 401). J. E. Bennett, on destructive ulceration of the palate and fauces ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 31). W. J. Coulson operation for adhesion of the softpalate to the posterior wall (' Lane ' 1862,11, 529; 'Gaz. Hebd.,' 1862, 783). Dr. Wirtinger, completellEPORT ON SURGEEY. 27G xiniou ('"Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1862, p. 438). a. Passavant, on congenital fissures of the hard palate (' Arch. d. Heillc.,' iSiSa, pp 103 305). Uratioplanti/.—Von Pitha ('AVien. Med. AVochenschr.,' 1863, pp, 369, &e.), and on stapliyloraphy ('AVien. Med. Jahrb.,' 1863,1,105).' O. AVeber, in young children (' Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iv, 295). Prof. Schuh (' AVien. Med. AVochenschr.,' 1863, p. 529). Tonsil.—M. Demarquay, removal of a cancer ('Cxaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 500). L. Tiirck ('Allg. AVien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863, p. 98) succeeded in pi'oducing local aiicesthesia of the fauces by repeatedly applying a mixture recommended by Prof. Beruatzik, and which was composed of three grayis of muriate of morphia, one drachm of concentrated spirit of -wine, and half an ounce of chloroform. Pharynx and (Esophagus.—H. AVeil, new forceps (' AVien. Med. "AVochenschr.,' 1862, p. 741). Dr. Semeleder, on cesophagoscopy (' AVien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 319). Dr. Stabel, foreign body in the oesophagus (' Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iii, 420). J. AV. Riggson, pins (' Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1861, ii, 389). Mr. Syme and M. Crequy, ceso- phagotomy ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, 1,299; ' Graz. Hebd.,"' 1861, p. 700). A. Keller, ou stricture ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 118, P- 35)- TBACHEOTOMT. Prof. Eoser has published his experience and views of this operation in his 'Handbook of Anatomical Surgery' (4th ed., Tlibingen, 1863), and in the ' Archiv der Heiikunde' (vol. ii). A full account of his opinion.s in regard to its use in croup is also contained in a ' Guide to Tracheotomy in Croup,' by M. Lissard (Griessen, 1861). He points out, that it is of importance to distinguish threatening suiFocation (Erstickungsangst) from asphyxia. Any obstacle to the free passage of air will induce symptoms of these' conditions. Genuine suffocation is usually preceded for a longer or shorter period by pre- monitory symptoms; thus, in croup, the asphyxia follows a very marked stage of suffocative agony, during which children struggle with forced respirations to overcome the obstacle ; in this period the blood is still very red,—indeed, even that of the veins is strikingly so. Should they be left in this condition till their muscular power is exhausted, and till asphyxia—overloading of the blood with carbon — has really com- menced, the prognosis, will, of course, be much more unfavorable. Asphyxia sometimes occurs in a more acute manner, and is characterised by such symptoms as sudden blueness of the face, fixed and staring eyes, convulsive anxious exertions and struggles for breath,—or in the form of a more slow suffocation, with symptoms of great weariness and weakness, restlessness, oppression, anxious startiugs out of short slumbers, loss of consciousness and of feeling, sopor, the face being often pale and rather oedematous. Both the danger to life and the agony of the patient are proportional to the acuteness of the symptoms. An important sign of obstruction in the air-passages is sinkiu"^-iu of the intercostal spaces, of the clavicular fossw, and of the scrobiculus cordis,277 TRACHEOTOMY. diu-ing inspiration. Since tlie air cannot enter witli sufficient ease, it l)resses with increased force on tlie more yielding parts during expan- sion of the chest. It must be, ho-wever, remarked, that the value of this sign increases in proportion to the slowness of inspiration, for even a healthy individual w-ill present such a sinkiug-in, when the inspiration is rapid. The inspiration alone is usually impeded, the expiration being rapid and easy, whilst the former is difficult, very much lengthened, and noisy. "Where the expiration is occasionally impeded, as by a foreign body or polypus, the sudden, as it were, valvular ob- struction can be sometimes hoih heard and felt. As to the administration of chloroform during the operation, the authoi'' is of opinion, that it is inadmissible in genuine asphyxia, when the blood is loaded with carbonic acid; in such a condition it is, indeed, quite unnecessary, for sensibility is so much diminished, that even children are sufficiently quiet for the performance of the operation. On the other hand, he recommends its iise in the stage of suffocative agony, when children, for example, are extremely restless. In respect to the operation, he has found it often much facilitated by division of the isthmus of the thyroid gland; he passes and firmly ties a strong ligature around it on each side of the middle line, and then divides it without danger of bleeding. Professor Eoser considers it an important rule—not to open the trachea till all bleeding has stopped. He himself, after much experience in tlie ojjeration, and with practised assistants, had the misfortune to see a child suddenly die from the passage of blood into the trachea, a ligature on the middle jugular vein having been accidently pulled off; he feels himself bound to oppose the most earnest warning to the carelessness, with which this subject is treated by most authors. He is aware of quite a series of cases, in which children perished on the operating table in the same manner; and he has become convinced, from experiments on rabbits, of the reality of the danger which arises from sudden coagulation of the blood in the bronchial branches. He has invented an instrument, somewhat after the eye-speculum of Kelly-8nowdeu, for pressing apart the lips of the wound when a sufficient number of assistants are not at hand. He makes frequent use of a bit of sponge held by forceps, and notes, that a sponge can be more rapidly cleansed by pressing it in a towel than by washing. After opening the trachea, as soon as the first expecto- ration is over, and before the canula is inserted, he passes through each edge of the tracheal wound a ligature, which must not be tied, but only be a little twisted, and fastened on each side with sticking plaster. The operator has then full command over the trachea, and can readily dilate the wound, a circumstance that much facilitates the insertion or change of the canula ; he keeps the ligatures in for three or four days, and has not seen any injurious effect from them in some forty cases. There should always be an elastic catheter in the tracheotomy case; nothing promotes so conveniently and innocuously the discharge of false membranes, and excites expiratory movements, as the motion up and down of a catheter; such an irritation is especially required where asphyxia already exists. He strongly recommends thetransport of cases of croup fromthe countryREPORT ON SURGERY. a78 into town, where they can be properly watched; he has not observed any injurious effect from the exposure to cold; he believes that croup diners toto coelo from catarrh caused by cold. Tracheotomy in croup has been recently gaining ground. It is now perceived, that croup is a specific disease, dilFering in essential points from simple catarrhal affections, and that it is usually,—in the majority of cases—fatal. (It is frequently contagious; every precaution must be used, for many medical men have recently caught the infection and died.) It cannot be denied that children perish almost always from suffocation. It is true that after the operation many patients—up to the present time more than half—die from pneumonia, bronchitis, or the fever, but they do not perish from suffocation. The first indication is to prevent suffbcation; when this danger has been overcome by opening the windpipe, every efibrt must be made to diminish the danger of pneumonia, &c. Tracheotomy is indicated in croup, so soon as there are urgent symptoms of obstruction of the glottis. It has been already noticed, that whilst in asphyxia caused by the gradual cessation of the oxydizing process of the blood, and by the progressive poisoning by carbonic acid, when the respiration is impeded, there are at the same time cold extremities, blue lips, livid countenance, cold sweats, and general relaxation passing into a soporous condition, the condition threatening suffocation is essentially different. The respiration is impeded, and the demand for oxygen is only satisfied by difficult, forced respirations; dreadful anguish is depicted on the reddened countenance, covered with sweat; there is extreme restlessness; the patient tosses from side to side, gets out of bed one minute, into it the next, and clutches spasmodically at those around him, as if seeking every- where for help. This is the proper j)eriod for the operation; this is the time when success may be expected. Should the operation be longer delayed, symptoms of genuine asphyxia appear; and then, though it may enable the child to breathe freely, it has usyially no longer power to resist the advancing bronchitis. Yet it is never too late to operate; so long as respiration continues,—life may possibly be yet saved. Eoser has operated on or assisted in the treatment of forty-two cases in seven years ; of these nineteen recovered, twenty-three died. In fourteen of the latter there were special, more or less avoidable, causes of death; thus in six there was far-advanced asphyxia when the operation was performed; three times death was probably o^ving 1;o cerebral complications, tvrice to secondary disease (acute pneumonia after almost complete recovery, death on the fifteenth day; albumi- nuria, death in the third week) ; twice death occurred suddenly, in all probability from obstruction of the canula through fault of the nurse; once, very probably, from passage of blood into the trachea. Prof. Szymanowski, new canula (' St. Petersb.'.Med. Zeitschr.,' iy, 22), and remarks on the manner of operating (' Prag. Viertelj.,' 1863, iii, i). A. M. M'Whinnie (' Lane.,' 1862 i, 143). Dr. Matejovsky (' Prag. Yiertelj.,' 1862, ii, i). M. Demarquay (' Gaz. d. Hop., 1862, p. 177). Mr. Spenee, tracheotomy tube di-opped into left bronchus ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' viii, 191). Dr. Burow, simplified operation (' Deutsche Kim., 1862, p. 382).EEMOViL OP THE TIIYEOID GLAND. m NECK. Thjroid Gland. H. Lebert, the diseases of the thyroid gland, and their treatment (pp. 8 and .314, Breslau, Maruschke and Berendt). Dr. Voss removed an enlarged thyroid gland from a lady aged 54 ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1862, i, 10). It had existed for forty-two years, and during the last seven years had occasioned such difficulty in swallowing and breathing that ultimately she was unable to lie down. The size of the tumour before the operation was equal to that of a clenched fist; the trachea was pushed towards the right side. The gland was removed without difficulty; a long incision having been made, it was separated for some distance, and the rest of the operation finished with the ecraseur. Dr. "Wood, in some remarks on this case, stated that a few operations of the same kind had been performed in ISTew York, and that he knew that two of them had died from venous hsemorrhage. M, Gouget, epidemic of acute goitre (' Arch. Gren.,' 1863, i, loi). A. Klein, dissertation on the surgical treatment of bronchocele (Tubingen, i860 ; 'Arch. f. Klin, Chir,.' iii, Bericht, p. 286). Prof Oppolzer, rheu- matic inflammation of cervical vertebrtB ('Spit. Zeit.,' 1862, pp. 503, 511). E. Semeleder, on inflammation of the cellular tissue of the neck ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 265, &c). O. Storch, on congenital hygroma of the neck ('Joum. f. Kinderkr.,' vol. 37, p. 68). M. Verneuil, tumour of the parotid (' Gaz. d. H6p.,' 1863, p. 439, &c). L. J. Bauchet, on hypertrophy of the parotid (' Mem. de la Soc. de Chir.,' 7,289). Larynx. T. Bryants states ('Brit. Med. Jour,,' 18/53, h 44^) ttiat when tracheotomy is performed on account of a foreign lody in the air-passages, " chloroform should be administered preparatory to the operation, as it may be given with perfect safety; for it not only tends considerably to prevent the spasm of the laryngeal muscles by allaying their irritability, but it enables the surgeon to perform his difiicult duties with calmness and precision. A free section of the trachea is always to be made, in order to allow of a free passage for the expulsion of the foreign body; and in the majority of cases, this foreign body will Jje expelled as soon as the opening in the trachea has been accomplished. If any difficulty be experienced in obtaining this result, the child's body may be tilted upwards and the head downwards, to favour the gravitation of the sub- stance ; and a good shake or pat upon the back will at times dislodge it from its position, and consequently assist in securing its expulsion. If these means fail in carrying out the object for which they were under- taken, the child must be left alone; the opening in the trachea should, however, be made large, or even valvular, and means adopted to preserve its patency ; so that, should the foreign body by any chance be subse- quently dislodged from its position, its expulsion may be secured. The larynx itself should be always most carefully examined, not only before but after the operation; for it is not an uncommon thing to find thellEPORT ON SUEGEUY. 2S0 foreiga body firmly impacted within the rima, aud consequently in a osition from which ita removal cannot be looked upon as being very ifficult. In two of the cases which I have recorded, out of the three which proved fatal, after a futile attempt at the removal of tiie foreign body by tracheotomy had been made, 1 have already shown that tlie foreign body was subsequently found to be firmly impacted within the rima ; and it is fair to believe that, if the foreign body had been pre- viously removed from this position, a very diff"erent success would in both cases have been recorded. This laryngeal exploration must, how- ever, be conducted witli considerable care. The passage of a probe or fine catheter, or any other small body, through the rima from below up- wards, ia positively useless, as experience has proved that these means may be carefully employed, and yet the surgeon will fail in finding any obstruction ; but the exploratory instrument must be a large one; indeed, it should be nearly as large as can be admitted through the rima; so that, if the foreign body lodge at this spot, it will necessaril}'^ be pushed up- wards into the pharynx by its forcible passage. A large elastic catheter ia unquestionably the best instrument for this purpose ; and if this be employed in such cases, it may be unhesitatingly asserted that a more uniformly good success will in future have to be recorded. This prac- tice would probably have added two more successful cases to the five which I have already mentioned, making seven successful instances of the removal of the body, out of tiie eight in which it had taken place. Within the last few months, I was present at the examination of a child who had died from the impaction of a bone ^vithin the i-ima, which had not been detected after the operation of tracheotomj^ although a careful examination of the larynx was made with a fine instrument. It was impossible to see the specimen without a painful feeling of regret that a larger instrument had not been employed in the exploration, for the body was at once dislodged after death by the introduction of a catheter up the passage. In all cases, therefore,,of foreign body in the air-passages, in which an expulsion cannot be obtained by the opera- tion of tracheotomy, let the larynx be carefully examined by means of a large catheter, and its extremity passed from below upwards through the rima; the finger at the same time making a careful examination from above ; for by these means, and these only, will a foreign body be re- moved from the rima glottidis."* Mr. Spence, extrq^tion of a foreign body from the bronchus (' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' viii, 979). Mr. Briddon, removal of necrosed cartilage from the larynx ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1862, ii, 327). Dr. Tobold, M. Yerneuil, M. Trelat, on polypi ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, pp. 455, 467 ; ' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, pp. 161, 292, &c.). Gr. Lewin, essay on new growths ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, pp. 19, 114, &c.). Dr. Kauchfuss, case of removal of a laryngeal polypus, and excision of one vocal cord * .1. F. May succeeded in dislodging a coflee-graiu from the larynx by the use of a small whalebone probang, the sponge of which was calculated to fit the_ larynx rather closely, and thus to force anything it might encounter past the epiglottis. This instrunient wa.s introduced through the wound and forced upwards, looking in the mouth, he saw it pass the epiglottis. ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' new ser., vol. 23, p. 412.)PAUACENTESIS TIlOllACIS. (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitsclir.,' iii, 153)- ^- Bruns, the first extir- pation of a laryngeal polypus, &c. (2nd ed. p. 76. Tiibingen,H. Laupp). Mr Walker, removal of a polypoid growth of the larynx ('Lancet,' 1861, ii, 444). Prof. Czermak, on local treatment by means of the laryngo- scope ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 4^2), and on tumours in the larynx and nostrils (ib., 581). CHEST. IT. J. Bowditch, paracentesis thoracis (' Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences,' Jan. 1863, and ' Canada Lancet,' i, 33).—" Having performed paracen- tesis 150 times on '] <, persons, during the past twelve years, besides being witness of ten other cases, I now give a brief re'sume of my ex- perience. I have never seen the least permanent evil ensue from any of these operations, and but slight temporary difiiculty, as pain, dyspnoea, stricture, cough, &c. This, I think, sufficiently proves the innocuous- ness of the operation, by means of the exploring trocar and suction- pump, as suggested by Dr. Wyman, of Cambridge, Mass. "Frequency o/tJie operation.—I was once compelled to tap a patient, himself a physician, eight times in six weeks, to relieve his intense dis- tress in breathing ; and to operate on a lady nine times during eight and a half months, the first, being to save her from death from orthopnoea, was performed when she was over four months pregnant. I have also pvinctured one chest twice in the same day, in order to reach all the fluid which was divided by false membranes. " JVtmier of perfect recoveries.—Out of the whole seventy-five patients, twenty-nine recovered completely, and apparently in conse- (juence of the operation, which was generally performed after severe symptoms had manifested themselves, and when I was called in consul- tation. In all these cases the tapping seemed to be the first step towards recoveiy. "Thefluid—Of the seventy-five, the fluid obtained at the first operation was serum in twenty-six, of which twenty-one made good recoveries. If, afterwards, the fluid became purulent, "l have noticed an almost cei'tain fatality to attend the change ; of six such cases, four have died, and the other two, when last seen, were failing. Pus flowed at first in twenty-four cases ; seven of these recovered, and seven died. Belief is always obtained, but the tendency remains to a termination in fistulous openings or phthisis. A sanguinolent fluid at the first punc- ture, thin and of a dark-red colour, not coagulating, I consider almost certainly fatal, and a cousequence of some malignant disease of the lung or pleura. Of the seven of these cases, six died, and the other is stijl lingering. But when the fluid becomes of this colour only at the second or any subsequent puncture, I deem it of comparatively little importance towards the prognosis. A mixture of bloody purulent fluid at the first operation is usually fatal; of three occurring, all died. A fetid gangrenous fluid is very rare ; I have met with but one case, and although great and permanent relief was obtained from the orthopnoea, the patient sunlc in a few days, when the pleura was found gangrenous.EEPORT ON SUUGKHY. 282 " Hi/ch'opneumothorax,—Here paracentesis can do no harm, and may- give great relief. I have operated once with much temporary benefit, and should not fail to do so again vrero the dyspnoea urgent. " No fluid.—riually, in seven cases I got no fluid whatever; this occurred most frequently in my earlier operations, uud tlie failure was probably due to the cautious and slow manner in which I plunged the trocar between the ribs, carrying thus the false membrane of the pleura costalis before the instrument instead of piercing it, so that it really never entered the fluid. At other times I have little doubt that an error of diagnosis was made, and that instead of a fluid there was simply an unexpanded lung and thick, false membranes on the pleura, causing as much dulness on percussion and absence of respiration as if a fluid were present. The diagnosis of the two was not as easy to me then as now; inspection is the test between these two conditions; the intercostals are distinct and depressed when a membrane exists, but indistinct and level with the ribs, or possibly prominent, when a fluid occupies the chest. Once an immense tumour filled and uniformly distended one pleural cavity, and in its course presented all the pheno- mena, natural and physical, of simple pleurisy. I tapped it three times, namely, at the back, side, and front, at the same visit. No evil effect ensued. " An inquiry has been made as to which side gives the most success- ful results. I regard an operation performed on the right side as much more favorable than one on the left, for about twice as many of the former have recovered as of the latter. " Inspection of the chest should never be neglected, for when full of fluid there will be found a general roundness and immobility of the whole of the affected side. At times local swelling may develop itself, and this is especially apt to occur with the breast, which becomes unduly prominent. It is not often that bulging of the intercostal spaces takes place, for they are rarely more than on a level -with the ribs, which fre- quently seem closer from contrast with those of the opposite side, that are so constantly on the stretch to fulfil their double duty. Where the eflfusion is great, vocal fremitus is wanting, and there is often exquisite sensitiveness to the touch over the whole of that side of the chest, which disappears after the removal of the fluid. The lung, unless bound by adhesions, is gradually displaced, and floats upon the fluid beneath. Should doubts arise as to the presence of eflrusion, change of position with palpation, as in dropsy, will remove them. As the liquid increases the lung becomes further compressed and forced backwards towards its root, until respiration can no longer be detected but at its apex and close to the spine behind; and other organs become removed from their positions. Mr. M'Donnell states that occasionally the heart, by giving impulse to the fluid through its mediastinal wall, may cause eftusion to be mistaken for aneurism. I liave never noticed any such efftect. " If hen to operate.—Experience has taught me always to operate without delay, when the pleural cavity has become distended with fluid, and the dyspnoea is great; for I have found that, when performed early, it prevents long tedious illness, future contraction of the chest, and the probable development of tubercle, or perhaps a troublesome283 PAUACENTESIS THOIIACIS. fistulous opening in tlie side. I also remove tlie eifusion in all chronic cases where it -will not disappear under a reasonable amount of treat- ment, for I have noticed that persons sometimes die suddenly of dyspnoea, with one side of the chest partly filled with fluid. I never wait for pointing, nor necessarily insert the trocar at any such point when existing, choosing rather the most depending part of the chest ; and dislike or refuse to tap in all cases where the intercostals are depressed, never feeling certain of seeing anything flow away. " Where to operate.—Tlie most appropriate spot for puncture is between the ninth and tenth ribs, in a line let fall from the lower angle of the scapula. I have, however, tapped under the axilla, and even in the breast, when the case seemed to requii-e it. But in selecting the precise intercostal space of the back, I usually choose one about an inch and a half higher than the line on a level with the lowest point at which the respiratory murmur can be heard in the healthy lung of the opposite pleural cavity.* " The operation.—The instrument I employ is a small trocar, a little larger than the ordinary exploring trocars of our pocket-cases of instruments. When possible, the patient should be seated sideways on a chair, or astride with his face towards the back of it. Having pressed the forefinger of the left hand deeply into the intercostal space, I plunge the instrument through at the depressed part, keeping as near as j^ossible to the upper edge of the lower of the two ribs, to avoid injuring the larger branches of the intercostal arteries, which run along their inferior borders. I never incise the skin before the introduction of the trocar [for I find when it, with its canula, will pass readily through buckskin or chamois—as it should do when well made —its insertion will be easy, and cause but little pain.—Ed.]. Having withdrawn the stilette, see tbat the passage of the fluid is not impeded in any way through the tube, employing a blunt probe to ascertain the cause and to remove any obstruction; then, by means of a piece of very flexible tubing and a double-valve syringe, similar to that of a stomach-pump [an ordinary bivalve enema syringe might be employed for want of better—En.], draw away the efiusion slowly, until, by distress, or a sense of dragging, distension, or pain, the lung gives warning that it has undergone as much expansion as it can endure with safety. Having then removed the instrument, the wound will be found to contract, and close so completely that no lint or dressing of any kind will afterwards be required. * In a former paper in the same journal, new series, vol. xxiii, p. 348, Dr. Bowditch says—" It is evident that it will be wise to introduce the trocar as low down as possible, consistently with the safety of important organs within the chest or abdomen. The spot usually chosen by Dr. Wyinan and myself is just under the lower angle of the scapula, between the seventh and eighth, or eighth and ninth ribs. Tliis point is chosen, first, because it is easily reached; second, the muscles covering the thorax at this part are thin; thu-d, the intercostal vessels are as small there as elsewhere—possibly they may be smaller. The intercostal space is sufficiently large to easily admit of the passage of the trocar. With a reasonable degree of caution ■in our diagnosis, and if, when penetrating low down, we raise the point of the instru- ment instead of depressing it, we shall avoid the diaphragm, liver, or spleen." Fur- ther details and a drawing of the suction-pump may be found nt the same place,RJCl'OJiT ON SUU(;K1IY. " It is woudcrful to observe the efl'ects produced by thia operatiou, even upon the mind, which, like the lung, seems relieved from great oppression, and the patient, before quite Aveak, gets up and walks and talks and acts like a new being. The digestion becomes at once improved, and the strength is rapidly regained. The cough usually, however, augments during the first few days; the pulse retains its quickness; friction sounds occasionally become developed, and several months may elapse before the vesicular murmur becomes pi-operly re-established. Tiie amount of relief obtained bears no relation to the quantity of fluid removed, for I liave found as much ensue from half a pint as from a quart. " Surgeons generally have the idea that the entrance of air at an operation produces dangerous symptoms. I have never found this to be the case, even when, from the mismanagement of the syringe, it has been pumped into the chest; nor am I alone in this experience,—other operators, who have Avitnessed like accidents, corroborate the testi- mony, the only disagreeable effect being the oppression momentarily produced. I do not doubt, however, that air frequentli/ introduced would prove injurious. Some surgeons besitate to operate for fear of wounding the lung. My experience on the subject is, that the punc- ture of any portion of the lung that can be reached with this small instrument, even if it were likely after auscultation, is but of trivial moment, compared to the great benefit to be derived from drawing off the effusion. I have once punctured the lung ; Dr. Wymau confesses to a similar accident; and I have witnessed a third surgeon not only injure it wdth the trocar, but work the suction-pump whilst the canula was in its substance; notwithstanding, all these j)atients got well as usual, although bloody sputa were occasioned in one of them. " I do not pretend that this oj^eration will cure every case in which it is employed, but feel confident that in my hands it has been the means of saving many lives; and I believe that several patients within my knowledge, who have died whilst vmder the care of other physicians, might have recovered had it been had recourse to. It is comparatively harmless, and gives but little pain, and, in my opinion, ought never to be allowed to fall into disuse by the profession. It was in my earlier years of practice that I first noticed and endeavoured to prevent sudden death from pleuritic eflusion, meeting with but indifferent success, owing to the imperfect state of surgery at the time, when my attention was drawn to Dr. Wyman's mode of operating by means of a small trocar and suclion-pump, which I at once adopted as the means I had so long sought after. Modifying his plan, however, I employed a flexible tube with the canula, that it might not be disturbed whilst I was drawing oft' the fluid. I have employed this instrument ever since, and the result is the experience here given. I consider the operation so simple, that I would as soon perform it as draw a tooth or vaccinate a child." E. H. Powell, on thoracentesis in serous effusion (' Lane.,' 1862, ii, .384). A. Biermer, on paracentesis in traumatic pneumothorax (' Schweiz. Zeitschr.,' ii, 1^52). Prof Symanowski, on partial excision of the sternum ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, p. 306). M. Trdlat, fistula after a wound (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 438).FOKEIGN BODIES IN THE STOMACH. Mamma.—VvoL Soluih, on cancer ('Spit. Zeit.,' 1862, pp. 27, &c.). M. Nelaton, adenoid (' Gaz. des H6p.' 1862, p. 554). M. Demarquuy, tumour of butyrous appearance (ib., 1863, p. 17). ABDOMEIf. J. Poland, a collection of cases of foreign bodies in the stomach and the intesiincs (' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' 3rd ser., vol. ix, p. 269).— Tlie symptoms of a foreign body in the stomach are ver}'' various, and depend in a great measure on differences in tlie size, form, and irregu- larity of surface. In many cases it may be retained ■\\atbout incon- venience, or pass thi'ougb the bowels without pain or trouble. But in general there is a sense of uneasiness and pain in the stomach, and if the body be large or heavy it may produce a feeling of weight and fulness. After a time, vomiting, hasmatemesis, and dyspepsia, are wont to ensue. If the foreign body is composed of iron, or of other material soluble in the gastric juice, more or less of it will pass off with, and sometimes greatly discolour, the motions. The diagnosis may be pre- sumptive or direct; the former from the actual swallowing of the substance, the immediate sense of suffering in the stomach, the sub- sequent pain iu the same region, vomiting, haematemesis, and dis- coloured stools; but the latter only can be fully satisfactory. In many cases, however, it is quite impossible to detect a foreign body in the stomach by even the most careful manipulation, especially where the parietes are thick ; even where a body is felt, it may be impossible to determine whether it is in the stomach or the arch of the colon. Course,—(1) Foreign bodies may be vomited up. (2) They may escape into the intestines, and pass off with the fcBces. (3) They may, as in the case of pin-swallowing, traverse the organ, and appear at different parts of the body. (4) They may remain quiescent in the stomach for a long period, and the patient die of other causes. (5) They may cause gastritis, indigestion, slow emaciation, exhaus- tion, and death. (6) They may induce adhesion of the stomach to the abdominal parietes, followed by ulceration and the formation of a fistulous aperture. (7) After inducing ulceration, they may perforate the peritoneum, producing violent inflammation and death. (8) They may at once, from their sharpness, perforate the stomach, inducing collapse and rapid peritonitis, such as is observed in rupture of the viscera. In 39 cases, there were 12 deaths and '27 recoveries. Of the 12 deaths, 5 were from perforation, 5 from exhaustion, i from ob- struction, and I from suicide, owing to the intensity of the pain. Of the 27 recoveries, the foreign body was vomited up in 2, in 1 the pins passed out at different parts of the body, in i the body remained quiescent in the stomach, iu 14 it was passed per anum, and in r gastrotomy was performed.286 REPOUT ON SUEGERY. Treatment.—According to Mr. Pollock, the swindler in the streets who, to avoid conviction, swallows a piece of false money, adopts a peculiar treatment. He avoids purgative medicine as worse than useless ; on the other hand, he has recourse to a constipating diet, and feeds for some days on hard-boiled eggs and cheese, in excess beyond his usual diet. Oily, mucilaginous drinks may be given ; all complica- tions, such as gastritis or vomiting, must be combated by the usual i-emedies. Mr. Poland is of opinion that gastrotomy cannot at present be recommended, and that it was probably superfluous in the cases where it has been performed, the foreign body being capable of natural expulsion. Professor Adelmann is not quite of the same opinion as Mr. Poland. In a lengthy paper, principally devoted to internal obstruc- tion of the small intestines (' Prag. Viertelj.,' 1863, ii, 29), he gives a table of nine cases in which the stomach was opened for the re- moval of foreign bodies, according to which death only once ensued. On the other hand, it is advisable to delay any operative proceedings as much as possible till the stomach or intestine has united to the abdominal wall. Monro's proposition, to favour such union by exciting a circumscribed inflammation of the abdominal wall by means of caustics, has been employed with success in cysts of the liver. E. Billroth, extraction of a needle from the abdomen (' Schweiz. Zeitschr.,' i, 52). Dr. Legendre, on accidental anus (' Mem. de la Soc. de Chir.,'V, 227). Prof. Oppolzer, on traumatic peritonitis ('Spit. Zeit.,' 1863, pp. 25, 41). "W". G-ruber, abscess in cavum prseperitoneale (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' iii, i^i, 366). M. Blanchet, on cathe- terism of the duodenum, &c. (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 555). J. C. Came- ron, on the treatment of abscess of the liver ('Lane.,' 1863,1,631). M. Trousseau, on repeated acupunctui-e as a means of causing imion between the walls of the abdomen and cysts (' Gaz. des H6p.,' 1863, p. 537), and on hydatids (' Spit. Zeit.,' 1863, pp-. 45,53). HEEWIA. E. Coulson speaks strongly in favour of the operation for strangulated hernia without opening the sac (' Arch. Gen.,' 1863, i, 273, &c.). Among other advantages of this method of operating, he notes that the intestine is less liable to be wounded, and that if any artery is opened, the blood flows outwards and cannot escape into the peritoneal cavity; the ha?mor- rhage is at once perceived, and a ligature can be readily applied, if the incision is somewhat prolonged. In the operation it is sometimes difficult to recognise with certainty the sac. The surgeon wUl do well to remember that it is not con- tinuous with the margins of the ring, as are the other layers. By passing the finger round the pedicle, some more yielding spot may generally be found; it is there that the bistoury should be passed. The stricture having been divided, great care must be used in the reduction not to rupture the sac, or otherwise injure the bowel. The taxis should be continued for some time, the index finger of the left hand bemg applied to the neck of the tumour, so that reduction may not take place en masse, as ia so liable to occur when the ring is large and the strangu-DIAGNOSIS OP HERNIA. 287 lation due to the neck of the sac. Grurgling does not always accompany the return of the howel, but the relaxation of the tumour, and the possibility of feeling with the finger and through the sac the aperture into the abdomen are sufficient proofs. An objection to this method has been drawn from the occasional seat of the stricture in the neck of the sac. Dupuytren declared in 1818 that six times out of nine, strangulation was caused by the neck of the sac. Not much later, A. Berard raised the proportion to eight out of nine; and ultimately Malgaigne maintained in 1840 that genuine stran- gidation was always caused by the neck, and that the cases of supposed strangulation by the rings were cases of inflammation of the hernial sac. The author has found that strangulation of a hernia by the neck of the sac is not a frequent obstacle to reduction, either because such a form of strangulation is rarer than supposed, or because the resistance of the neck is not so great as to reqiiire incision; thus, in his sixth case, where the neck of the sac was very hard and contracted, reduction was effected by moderate pressure on the sac for eight or ten rninutes. Such a condition of the neck of the sac may be expected when a hernia comes down after the long-continued use of a truss. Its most certain character is the continued hardness of the pedicle after division of the fibrous rings. The author recommends that, when the rupture is very large, when the symptoms are those of inflammation of the sac rather than of genuine strangulation, when the bowel is adherent, or when there is some reason to suspect gangrene, the intestine should not be reduced; the case should, however, be very carefully watched, so that the sac may be opened, if at any time it appears absolutely necessary. C. HoUhouse, clinical lecture on the diagnosis of hernial and other tumours of the groin and scrotum ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1863, i, 129, 286).—"A man, set. 47, was lately admitted with strangulated hernia, supposed to be inguinal. A tumour of an oblong form occupied the left inguinal region; its long axis was parallel with Poupart's ligament, and it projected a little above this structure. It differed, however, from an inguinal hernia in the following important parti- culars :—(i) Its outline was more defined; (2) it was more prominent; (3) it was more superficial. An inguinal hernia in this situation must have been wholly or in part within the inguinal canal, and therefore beneath the aponeurosis of the external oblique, which, owing to its un- yielding nature, would have prevented such a prominence and such a definition of the tumour as was here apparent; but the decisive test for determining whether it were an inguinal or a femoral hernia consisted in carrying the finger into the inguinal canal. This you saw me do; invaginating a portion of the skin of the scrotum on the end of my forefinger, I passed it into the inguinal canal, and found this passage free, and the tumour lying in front of my finger. There could be no doubt, then, that this was a femoral hernia. The taxis having failed to return the hernia, the usual operation was performed, and the patient left the hospital well a few days ago." Mr. Holthouse classes the swellings which bear some resemblance to hernia under two heads;—(i) Those situated in the neighbourhood of288 IIEPOIIT OX SUllGEUY. the groin, including the region immediately above and below Poupart's ligament; and (2) tliose met with in the scrotum or labium. Among the tumours in the former situation may be enumerated enlarged glands, abscesses, imperfectly descended testis, hydrocele and hematocele of the cord, adipose tumour of tlie cord, the fibrous tumour of tlie iliac fossa of N^latoii, occurring only in females, aneurism, and dislocation of the femur upon tlie pubes. The tumours in the scrotum or labium ai'e hydrocele, common and encysted, hscmatocele, varicocele, sarcocele, and other tumours of the testis or cord ; and in the female, cysts and chronic abscesses of or in. the labium. He explains and illustrates by cases the difl'erential diagnosis of these aifections, very justly laying stress on percussion, as a means of extreme value in the determination of some difficult cases. " Hydrocele of the cord, whether encysted oi- diffused, bears some resemblance to hernia: a movable tumour, circumscribed in the one case, diflused in the other, occupies the inguinal canal, and, perliaps, the upper part of the scrotum, and can be pushed towards the abdominal and scrotal cavities, but not completely into them, as, indeed, is the case with an irreducible bubonocele. The difference con- sists in this—the hydrocele is fluctuating to the touch and dull on percussion, whilst the hernia is either elastic to the feel, resonant on percussion, and has a distinct impulse communicated to it on coughing, in which case it is intestine ; or it is neither elastic, resonant, nor fluctu- ating, but doughy to the feel, in which case it is omentum. The chief points in which a hematocele of the cord differs from a hydrocele of the same part are—(i) the mode of its occurrence, coming on sud- denly after violent exertion or a blow on the part; (2) the occasional presence of ecchymosis ; and (3) the indistinctness of the fluctuation." Mr. Holthouse gives a very necessary caution against being in too great haste to operate, even in cases of undoubted hernia. " I was called up by a surgeon a few nights ago to see a case of strangulated . hernia, and was requested to bring my instruments with me, as he thought there was no time to be lost. I found'a tolerably large scrotal rupture ; it was tense and somewhat sensitive to handling, and attended with a sensation of dragging in the abdomen. The patient had been the subject of hernia for many years, but had always been able to reduce it till about fourteen hours before I saw him. From this time all the eftorts both of himself and his surgeon had proved unavailing. I put him under chloroform, and tried the taxis for about fifteen minutes, but was not successful in returning the rupture. I declined, however, to operate, becavise there were really no symptoms of strangulation present; the hernia was for the time irreducible, but it was not stran- gulated. A pill of two grains of opium was therefore prescribed, and ice was directed to be applied to the tumour. Before eight o'clock the next morning the hernia had gone back of its own accord." M. Nelaton, clinical lecture on a case of strangulated femoral Jiernia (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 166).—Yesterday morning there was admitted a woman of 56, who for a dozen years has had a femoral hernia on the right side, imperfectly supported by a bad truss. This rupture escaped from time to time, but returned readily. Nine days ago it made its appearance of larger size than usual, and could not be reduced289 DIAGNOSIS OF HERNIA. by the patient; she was iminediately attacked with abdomiiial pains, constipation, nausea, and vomiting. The matters vomited were of a greenish colour, and had not the smell of intestinal fluids; such arc simple bilious vomitings, and occur in inflammations of the abdomen; they are composed of a transparent, colourless fluid, which contains, as a precipitate, a layer of greenish-coloured mucus. The vomiting was accompanied by a complete stoppage of the bowels, by a tense and tympanitic state of the belly, so that the intestinal coils could be seen through the walls of the abdomen. Every part of the belly, but espe- cially the supra- and infra-umbilical regions, became painful. Such were the local symptoms presented by our patient. AVe also found a notable alteration in the countenance; a slate colour of the face, which might be compared to the cyanotic hue in cholera, an appearance of the same kind on the back of the hands, and a slight diminution in the tempera- ture ; the latter change could be most readily perceived in the ex- tremities, at the end of the nose, the fingers, or the tongue, where the quantity of arterial blood is not sufficient to keep the temperature as high as in more central parts. This is a bad sign,—it shows us that the haematosis is imperfect, and that the process of calorification is not following its regular course. She also complained of pains in the groin, where there was a swelling of the size of a little orange. This swelling, which was diagnosed as a femoral hernia, presented some peculiarities as to its position. It appeared to be placed above the inguino-crural fold, and to rest rather on the abdominal wall than on the thigh ; it seemed even to pass to some extent into the greater labium of the same side, just as an inguinal hernia. On the other hand, there were reasons for believing the hernia to be femoral. Thus, to arrive at an exact determination of the nature of the tumour, it became necessary to analyse the symptoms which we have described, and to fix with precision the position of the hernia, which seemed, as we have mentioned, to encroach on the abdominal wall. M._ Nivet, an old interne of the Hotel Dieu, has established, that in the diagnosis of a hernia the points to be determined—the veritable laud- marks—are the bones, the fixed parts of the pelvis, and not the external soft parts. In fact, in oldish persons, especially if they have been stout Avhen young, as our patient, the soft parts at the lower part of the ab- domen become lax and pendulous; the mens veneris is, so to say, prolapsed forwards and downwards, and becomes located lower than the symphysis pubis. In our case the symphysis is placed very much higher than would be supposed from simply examining the position of the mons veneris and of tlie hairs; the latter, indeed, are much below the brim of the true pelvis. When, however, we carefully marlted by palpation the pubic symphysis, and drew a line from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubis, we saw clearly that the hernia was placed below it. In short, you must always deter- mine the position of the pubic symphysis, and liot let yourselves be led into error by depression of the mons veneris; you must see whether the tumour IS above or below a line drawn from the anterior superior spinous pi-ocess of the ilium to that of the pubis. It is of great importance to call the surgeon's attention to the errors of diagnosis which may arise 19390 liKPOllT ON SUUGEEY, firom the soft parts of the abdomen changing then- relative position to the bones. Thus, iu puncture of the bladder, if you trust to the outward appearance of the soft parts, you may fancy yourself above the symphysis, when, owing to the low position of the mens veneris, you are below. Unless you searcli for the upper margin of the pubis with the finger, you will be liable to fall into this error, and to puncture below the symphysis. M._ Nelaton saw this occur in the days of Jime. A young non-commissioned officer was struck by a ball in the upper part of the thigh; it passed obliquely through the perina)um, and escaped by the opposite gluteal region. The young man was tormented with complete retention of urine. M. Nelaton saw him, and after examina- tion, directed the interne to puncture the bladder. The latter was deceived by the sinking of the soft parts in the hypogastric region ; fancying he was above, when he was really below the symphysis, he punctured, and, as you may readily imagine, no urine flowed. M. Nelaton saw another example of this error in the case of an old man of eighty-two ; he had for many years been very stout, and thus the tissues in the pubic region had become so depressed and flaccid, that the punc- ture was made below the symphysis. Another symptom, which seemed somewhat incompatible with our diagnosis, was the form of the swelling. It was not globular or shaped like a chestnut {marronnee), as is usually the case with a femoral rup- ture ; it was not reflected upwards and outwards, as the latter so often is ; on the other hand, it formed a swelling obliquely downwards and inwards, and simulated to a certain degree, as we have already said, an ingTiinal hernia. There is a symptom which is generally well marked, and which is of great service in a doubtful case of hernia; this symptom, which is in practice too much neglected, and which yet is really of importance, is drawn from the point of attachment of the prolapsed bowel to the rest of the viscera contained in the abdomen. The, point of union is the pedicle of the hernia; it may, as in the present case, be felt through the parietes of the abdomen in the form of a roimded, cylindrical cord. Although the belly was much distended in our patient, we could feel this cord, and trace it to the hernial ring. The general condition of the woman was bad; the strangulation was of nine days' duration; the pulse was small; there was some cyanosis ; the abdomen Avas distended with gas; she had incessant vomiting; the pains extended over the whole abdomen. These were symptoms of advanced peritonitis. What ought to be the surgeon's conduct iu such a case ? Should he wait for death ? We thought not; there was still a faint shadow of hope; we operated. The operation was performed three quarters of an hour after the patient's admission into the hospital. It was tolerably simple—an incision through the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue; as Ave proceeded, we saw a sero-sanguineous fluid, somewliat re- sembling that contained in the sac, escape at each incision with the bistoury. The presence of this fluid was owmg to the strangulation having existed for a considerable period; it might possibly have given rise to the belief that the sac had been opened, all the more because, atter dividing the subcutaneous tissues, layer by layer, a rounded mass, muck291 INTESTINAL GANGUENB. resembling omentum, came into view. As, however, it did not present the bluish-gray colour characteristic of the hernial sac, it waa incised, two other layers were divided, and the sac was exposed. It is very difficult to give in words any idea of the appearance of the latter; it must be seen. It does not differ from the outer layers by its slightly yellow and marbled colour, as has been asserted, but rather by its- being of a uniform bluish-gray; it most closely resembles in hue a vein seen through a very delicate stin, or some darkish body seen through a translucent substance. It was punctured ; a slightly viscous and bloody fluid escaped, and the aperture was enlarged upwards and doAvnwards. The sac contained omentum, which was placed, as is always the case, in front of the intestine, and which adhered partially to the walls of the sac. "We then met with some difficulty, o-wing to the depth to which the pedicle penetrated. The sac was drawn for- wards, and one side of it was helcl by an assistant; we then took hold of the other, and divided as far as we could with scissors. By such a proceeding we may occasionally succeed in relieving the strangulation; in the present case we were obliged to divide the stricture with a curved bistoury, to the extent of not more than two or three millimetres, and we then convinced ourselves, by passing the finger, that the dilatation was sufficient; if, in such a case, the index finger will pass through the aperture, you may be sure that the bowel will pass. Eeduction was readily performed. It will be advisable to remark on some portions of this operation. The escape of a sero-sanguineous fluid, as the various layers are suc- cessively divided, is a sign that the taxis has been tried quite long enough. Such a discharge may occasion errors in diagnosis, which may be followed by hasty treatment on the part of the surgeon; indeed, it may induce a belief that the sac is opened, the more because, after incising the supposed sac, a distinct and perfectly separate sphere is found, as in our patient. If reduction is then performed, both the hernia and the sac will be returned without relief to the strangulation, the only difference being that the seat of strangulation will be in the abdomen instead of externally. The loop of intestine was carefully examined; it was di'awn further out, so that we might satisfy ourselves of its integrity at the point of constriction. Occasionally, as you may remember, a little iilceration is found to correspond to the seat of stricture ; here it had not occurred, because the omentum had completely surrounded and pi'otected the bowel at that point; thus the gut was not immediately compressed, and had escaped in part the eftect of strangulation. There has been much dispute as to the anatomical characters of intestinal gangrene; it has been said that the bowel is of a brown colour, somewhat like that of a withered leaf. M. Nelaton, after the examination of a great number of strangulated heruise, has come to the following conclusion:—That the loop of bowel haviug'^been drawn down and the point of constriction carefully examined, if a portion is gangrenous or sloughing, it will be found to be macerated and im- pregnated with the intestinal fluid ; it toill then he of tJie same colour as the inlestinal contents. This is the matter which colours the gau-IIKPORT ON SURGEliy. 292 grenous portion ; you may now readily uuderstand the comparison witli the colour of a dead leaf. After the operation M. Nclatou did not follow his usual custom of prescribing a purgative ; the patient had, however, four full evacuations. An immense blister, covering the whole of the abdomen, was ordered. It must be remembered tiiat at the time of the operation the patient presented the symptoms of general peritonitis; now it is known that blistering is of service in serous inflammations ; it is thus used in pleurisy, and there appears to be no reason why it should not be used also in peritonitis—both membranes are of the same nature, and both are subject to similar inflammations. M. Nelaton has twice employed this method of treatment with success in his private practice. One case was that of a young man who was operated for hernia, and who presented symptoms of acute peritonitis; he perfectly recovered after the application of a large blister. To-day—yesterday the operation was.performed—the patient is no worse ; she is perhaps a little better ; she complains less of her belly, although the pains are deep-seated. She frequently complains of being unable to make water—a result, perhaps, of the blister; she has been relieved by the use of the catheter. The pulse is by no means bad ; it is of tolerable size, and beats io8 or no times in the minute. An un- favorable symptom is the violent thirst; it is a sign of serious peri- toneal inflammation. The expression of countenance still continues, though less marked. The nose is not so violet and cold as yesterday. This morning, when the hernia was examined, it was seen that the edges of the skin had almost entirely united, and that there was con- siderable swelling, so much, indeed, that the rupture might be supposed to have again escaped, a circumstance, which, by-the-bye, would not add much to the danger. "We considered that the swelling was owing to the effusion of bloody serum. We immediately separated the lips of the wound, and allowed a large quantity of such fluid, mixed with buhbles of gas, to escape. The reproduction o^ this fluid in the hernial sac may be observed every day. It may, unless allowed to discharge externally, infiltrate the walls of the abdomen, and pass upwards to the back of the trunk, determining terrible attacks of diffuse phlegmon. This liquid, which is effused by an inflammable peritoneal sac, is more deleterious than even urine ; both produce gangrene of the infiltrated tissues and frightful ravages. AVe therefore hastened, m our case, to evacuate the promiscuous fluid, which might give rise to—(i) the acutest peritonitis, if it passed into the abdominal cavity; and (2) in- filtration of the superficial layers of the perinajum, followed by difluse phlegmon. The patient died two days later; the post-mortem showed general peritonitis. Mr. "Wood, on ruptures, inguinal, crural, &c. (Loud., Davies). C. W. Streubel, summary of recent publications ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 118, p. 81). C. Vines, on the treatment of congenital hernia (' Lane.,' 1862, ii, 699). Mr. Jordan, on inversion ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 609). M. Philipeaux, on cauterization of the omentum after the opera- tion (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 365). Dr. Sayre, on cutting at once to the sac ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1862, ii, 192). Cases of inflamed sac293 INTESTI.VAL OBSTRUCTIOXS. (' Schweiz. Zeitsclir.,' ii. 0, ^7> 58)- I^- Eupprecht on the result of operatiousfor hernia (' Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1863, pp. 547, &c.). Messrs. Wood, Davies, and Colles, on the radical cure ('Med. lira, and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 326; ' Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol.xxxiii, pp. 60, 243)- , Inguiml Hernia.—Z. Paget, on congenital, &c. (' Bnt. Med. Journ., 1863, i, 88). W. Busch, rare case Q Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iv, 47). Mr. Bradford, case of operation, in which both the testicle and sac were above Poupart's ligament (' Glasg. Med. Journ.,' ix, 492.) M. Fano, unusual course of an inguinal hernia ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862,1, 356). Femoral Hernia—W. Callender, anatomy of the parts concerned in femoral rupture (Lond., 1863). P. G. Hewett (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i, 131). Mr. Harper, operation on a woman of ninety-five (' Lane.,' 1863, i, 34). Case under Mr. Skey, in which the gall-bladder was contained in the sac (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 296). Case in which the ovary was in the sac (' Schweiz. Zeitschr.,' ii, 50). OUtlrator Hernia.—Drs. Ulrich and Wilms, four cases of operation (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, pp. 10$, 107). W. Coulson (' Lane.,' 1863, iij ,303)- Umbilical Hernia.—M. Debout, on congenital (' Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. XXXV, p. 98). J. Moor (' Schweiz. Zeitschr.,' 1863, p. 256). H. Moore, stomach strangulated ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 218). M. Huguier and others, on the operation (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1862, pp. 754) 845). Mr. Steele, operation for strangulated congenital umbilical hernia (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i, 137). Mr. Barwell, on a new operation for the radical cure (' Lane.,' 1861, ii, 419, 471). Dr. Wat- son, on the radical cure of exoraphalos in the adult (' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' viii, 236, 276). M. Chicoyne, on the radical cure (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 20). H. Walter, congenital sciatic hernia (' Arch. f. pathol. Anat.,' vol. xxvii, p. 212). Dr. Chapplain,■ lumbar hernia ('Arch. Gen.,' i85i, ii, 739)- INTESTINAL OBSTETJCTION. Prof Adelmann discusses, in the paper already quoted, the syinp- •toms and treatment of mechanical obstruction of the small intestines. He considers that the history of the case, the suddenness of the attack, the frequent recurrence of the symptoms, or their supervention after the reduction of an external hernia, are but very uncertain signs of any particular form of strangulation. He calls attention to the serous exudation which often rapidly appears in acute internal strangulation, and relates a case where a very large amount of reddish serum was found; the bowel was strangulated in an abnormal aperture in the mesentery, and death had occurred forty-eight hours after the com- mencement of the disease. He considers the gurgling sound, which is often heard, a favorable symptom, as showing that the peristaltic in.otion of the bowel is still active. He quotes cases in wliicli this affection has been confounded witli strangulated hernia, with reducible hernia, with peritonitis, with biliary and renal colic, with poisoning,■294 IIBPOET OX SUllGEllY. ■with cholera, aud with circumscribed pueumothorax. rrom the tabular "view of 33 cases of laparotomy, it appears that— The indication for the operation wiis P„... Of llicsc cases There there recovcrca died Volvulus in 4 2 2 Continuance of tlic strangulation after the reduction of a hernia .... 7 5 2 Invagination 5 2 3 Foreign bodies 3 2 i Prolapsus of small intestine through a rupture of the rectum .... 2 o 2 Bands 8 2 6 Tumours and liypcrtropliy ... 4 2 2 Eifteen cases were correctly diagnosed; in 17 cases there was really no diagnosis made. The shortest time after the occurrence of the symptoms, at which the operation was performed, Tas 16 hours, the longest 30 days, and the average of 22 cases 53 houtd. The table of 31 cases of enterotomy for internal obsti-uction (ex- cluding cases of Callisen's operation, and those in which it was performed in infants) shows that 13 recovered and 17 died. The duration of the obstruction was— In the cases of deaths In the cases of recovery 2 days ... I S hours . . . i 7 „ ... 2 2 days ... I 8 ... I 8 „ ... I 9 m ... I 9 „ ... I J2 „ ... I 10 „ ... I 13 » ... 2 12 „ ... I 18 „ ... I 13 „ ... 2 20 „ ... I 82 „ ... I 30 „ ... I An account is given of a number of experiments, which were made for the purpose of tracing the effect of connecting various parts of the small with the large intestine; the small intestine was divided, the two ends were placed parallel to one another, fixed for about an inch •distance with sutures, and then introduced into the large intestine. A. P. Duchaussoy has published an elaborate essay ('Mem. de TAcad. de Med.,' vol. xxiv, p. 97), founded on 518 observations, in which the anatomical changes are accurately described, and 120 in which there was no post-mortem examination. A. — STRAlfGTJLATIOM' OF THE MESUKTEET. There were only three cases of this kind in which the bowel was probably not implicated; in one case death occurred in forty-eight, in •another in thirty-four, hours. B. — STEANGUIATION OF THE IKTESTIXE. Causes seated in the hotvel itself. I. Invaginations.—ExclviAmg those which so often, occur in young children during the agony, they may be divided into central and lateral:INVAGINATIONS. 295 tlie former amount to 135 cases; the latter, in wliich only one wall is invaginated, are extremely rare (3 cases). Out of the 135 cases the age is mentioned in 100 ; there were 37 children (31 under four years, 6 from four to ten years) and 63 adults (49 men, 14 women); from which it results that invagination is relatively most frequent during the first four years of life. In 61 cases the commencement of the disease is stated; in 34 of which 27 were young children, the afiection suddenly occurred whilst the general health was good; in 27 of which only 4 were children, it was preceded by other symptoms, as pain, constipation, prolapsus of the rectum. a. Simple descending invaginations.—9a cases, or 36 in which only the small intestine, 25 in which, only the large intestine, and 31 in which both, were invaginated. It must be noted, however, that in aU the children, except four, either the large intestine alone or both large and small intestine formed the intussusception. The invagination was seated in— The rectum, aucl projecting through the anua . . .11 times. „ rectum alone ........ 6 „ sigmoid, flexure and rectum .11,, ,, sigmoid flexure alone . 6 ., „ descending colon ........ 7 „ „ transverse , . • 7 « „ ascending , 9 „ Both tlie transverse and descending colon . . . . 3 u The end of the descending colon and heginuiug of the sigmoid flexure 2 „ The transverse, the descending colon, and the reetnm . i „ Tlie ascending and the transverse colon . . . . 1 „ 64 The left portion of the large intestine contained the intussusception 41 times, the transverse portion only 7 times, and the right portion 9 times; the tmnour must, accordingly, be especially looked for in the left portion of the large intestine. The autlior finds that gangrene, perforation, and rupture, do not occur in the simple intussusception of adults till the strangulation has lasted at least twelve days, and some- times not for one to two months. b. Ascending intussusceptions (16 cases) always appear as a com- plication of some other afiection. The author has also collected 14 cases in which an intussusception appeared as a complication of such diseases as polypus or cancer of the rectum ; 8 cases in which an intussusception was again invaginated, so as to be composed of five cylinders, and i case in which it Avas composed of seven cylinders ; 65 cases in which the invaginated portion of bowel was eliminated (in 7 of these, contraction of the bowels followed). Of the whole 135 cases, 97 died and 38 recovered from the immediate effects of the strangulation; of the latter, however, 9 died, cither dii-ectly in consequence of the elimination of the eschar or from the morbid pondition of the intestine; the further course of most of the otlier cases is unlcnown. Diagnosis.—A tumour always exists, and is usually seated in the296 llliPOllT ON SURGERY. large intestine; it is especially to be sought for in the middle and lower parts of the left side of the abdomen, by palpation, by examination with the finger or a bougie introduced per anum, and by percussion. Tlie diagnosis is facilitated in the period of elimination by tlie symptoms of enteritis, by the bloody discharge, and by tlie slouglis. Treatment.—Reduction may be attempted by the fingers, by a bougie, by insufflation of air, or the injection of water, before sloughing lias commenced. Purgatives and fluid mercury are decidedly injurious. Antiphlogistics and narcotics are often of great service. During the second stage, when the slough is forming, little can be done but to watch the case. The author considers it justifiable to puncture the in- testine with a trocar, or even to perform enterotomy, for the purpose of allowing an escape for gas and fluids. The greatest care must be taken during the third period, when the slough is being eliminated, not to break up the adhesions. II. Twists of the intestine, citlier on its own axis or round another piece of hoicel.—The author has collected 21 cases, in 8 of which the small, and in 12 the large intestine was the part affected; in 10 cases it was on the right, in 7 on the left side, and in 3 near the middle ; peri- tonitis occurred in almost every case. They must be treated in the same manner as intussusceptions. III. Strictures.—Twenty-eight cases of cancer, inno case affecting the small bowel. 2. Twelve cases from hypertrophy of the submucous, mus- cular, and cellular tissues, of which almost all were in the rectum or sigmoid flexui'e. ,3. Trom cicatrices or inflammation there were 16 cases, mostly seated in the small intestine ; death ensued ten times from peritonitis, six times from perforation. 4. From valves; rarely observed in adults. Of 8 cases of enterotomy in the inguinal region only i recovered ; of 7 in the lumbar region all recovered; one case of gastrotomy was also successful. , IV. Foli/pi.—Fourteen cases, generally complicated with intus- susception. V. Agents not structurally connected with tlie intestine. I. FcBces.—Only 15 cases, in which no other cause could be found. Tlie cfccum, sigmoid flexure, and the rectum, were the parts generally affected. These cases lasted for an extremely long period—3 months, no, 114 days. 1. Foreifjn bodies.—Fourteen cases; the seat of the obstruction was in most cases the termination of the small intestine. 3. Worms.—Nine cases. 4. Biliari/ calculi.—Eighteen cases ; and 5. Intestinal calculi.—Ten cases, generally in the large bowel. Agents external to the intestine. The author notes 16 cases of strangulation by the vermiform appen- dix, 21 cases by diverticula of the small intestine, 7 cases by the mesentery acting as a band, 7 cases by the omentum twisted like a cord. There Avere 65 cases of strangulation by bauds or adhesions; the bandIMPEKFOEATE ANUS. 297 was placerl, in 48 cases, thirty times on the right side, generally between the umbilicus and right iliac fossa, nine times on the left side, and nine times in the middle line. Out of 53 cases the large intestine was stran- gulated only four times, the small intestine forty-nine times. The duration was in 10 cases from eight hours to three days; from four to eight days in 15 cases (three operations) ; from nine to fourteen days in 8 cases (one operation); from fifteen to twenty days in 6 cases (three operations). The diagnosis of bands and adhesions may be to some extent aided by the fact, that almost all the cases of obstruction from adhesions have occurred in adult females, whilst by far the majority of those from bands were in males (from seven to eighty-five years old). Obstruction from adhesions must be treated just as that from faecal collections; that from bands by forced injections, fluid mercury, and perhaps drastic purgatives; an operation will, however, be generally required, and gastrotomy is to be preferred to enterotomy. The author concludes with the consi-deration of cases of internal hernia, and of strangulation from the displacement of other viscera of the abdomen, such as the spleen, or from abdominal tumours. A. P. Duchaussoy, on obstruction caused by biliary calculi (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 700). Dr. Johnson and Mr. Fergusson, operation ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 435). W. Gruber, on strangulation by a knot formed of the last part of the ileum and the sigmoid flexure ('Arch. f. Path. Anat.,' xxvi, 377). W. Brinton, on an anomalous in- tussusception ('Lancet,' 1863, 1,409). J. Gay, on invagination (ab- stracted in ' Lond. Med. Eev.,' iii, 387). Dr. Scholz, abdominal section ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, p. 21). von Thadeu, colotomy according to Fine ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iv, 154). M. Bosia, on intussusception in infants, with a case cured by catheterism ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 502). Dr. Breisky, case of retroperitoneal hernia (' Wien. Med. Jahrb.,' 1863, i. Anal. 63). EECTTJM. Malformations.—Mr. Bryant is of opinion'C Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i, 391) that the inguinal or Littre's operation'should be performed, when relief cannot be obtained by any operation in the anal region. " We have next to determine whether the intestine should be opened in the left side, in which it was originally suggested, and has hitherto been practised ; or whether it would not be a more certain and equally effectual operation to open the colon in the rigM groin. After care- fully reviewing the chief facts connected with tliis subject, I believe that the best practice lies in the performance of this last suggestion, and my opinion is based upon the following reasons:—Firstly, the large intestine will to a certainty be found in the right iliac region, whilst in the left this certainty does not exist; this has been shown by Mr. Curling, even in normal subjects, in which no deformity exists. In two instances out of twenty, in which ho practised this operation upon the dead child, the colon could not be found in its natural position, and on s.ubsequent dissection it was found to be lying on the right side. In cases of maldevelopment there is strong reason to believe that this irregular position of the descending colon exists in a larger proportion298 heport on surgery. of cases, and that in such the terminal portion of the bowel will be found more frequently on the right side than in well-developed and well-formed children, or ifc may, perhaps, have assumed some median j)osition. Under these circumstances the attempt to open it in the left groin would necessarily fail, and the life of the patient be probably sacrificed. It appears, therefore, to me to be a more certain and equally scientific practice to open the colon in the right groin ; for if the de- scending colon pass in that direction it can be opened ; and if otherwise, the crecum can readily be secured; and, Avithout doubt, under both cir- cumstances, an equal relief will be afforded to the patient. The diffi- culties of the operation in the right or in the left groin are the same, and the certainty of finding the large intestine on the right than on the left is much greater." Discussion (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 463, 186.3, p. 16, <fec.). H. F. Witt ('Diss, de atresisB ani cong. anat. path.,' Kil., 1859) figures two cases; one in which the rectum ended in a narrow canal, which ran along the penis close to the urethra, and opened just behind the meatus ; and a second, where it ended in a canal as large as, and opening into, the membranous urethra. M. Bourcart, on the position of tbe sigmoid flexure of the colon in the infant (' Graz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 705). Diseases.—IMr. Bryant endeavoured to show in 1859, that haemor- rbage from tbe bowel is in children a very certain indication of the existence oi &polyims ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i, 499). " Since that date many similar cases have fallen under my care, and I must confess that it'is a rare thing for me to meet witb any instance of haemorrhage from the bowel in children, which is not to be explained by the presence of sucb a growth. These growths are generaUy found in children under ten years of age. In some cases the discharge of blood from the bowel is constant, and tlie patient will be brought with its clothes stained and its buttocks smeared with a bloody mucus. In these instances the polypus will generally be found to be within, if not protruding from, the sphincter. In other examples occasional discbarges of blood will be observed, although not to a great extent, and wiD generally accom- pany and follow the act of defecation. In others, again, the hemor- rhage will take place independently of any such process. In a patient exhibiting any of these symptoms a careful local examination should be made. Much care is required in the examination, as the growth is readily passed by and overlooked. The best plan is to sweep the finger, passed well into the rectum, completely round the walls of the bowel. The polypus will thus be dragged from its attachment, and its pedicle will be made tense, thus arresting the attention of the examiner. By a careless examination it is almost sui-e to be overlooked, unless very large. When it is once detected, the cure is not diflicult. The remoATil of the growth is the only correct treatment, and this may, in a large proportion of cases, be readily done by simply hooking the finger over the pedicle and breaking it off. I have never kno-WTi any evil result from this practice, not even hajmorrhage, the process of lacerating the pedicle preventing this occurrence. In other instances the polypus may be brought out externally and ligatured. If the pedicle be thick,299 SPEUMATOURHCEA. and the polypus liigli up, it should be dragged down by means of forceps or by a wire uoose, and then ligatured. The removal by the finger is the readiest and best practice, and it is the one which I have almost always followed. After the removal of the growth a cure may con- fidently be predicted; some care being always taken by the surgeon to satisfy himself that a second growth does not exist." T. B. Curling, observations on the diseases of the rectum (3rd ed.). Gr. Passavant, dangerous injuries by clysters ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, p. ^03; 1863, p. 3). M. Velpeau, idceration at the margin of the anus ('Graz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 510). Syphilitic disease ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, p. 26; ' Lancet,' 1861, p. 420). H. Smith, prolapsus treated by the hemorrhoidal clamp ('Lancet,' 1863, i, 578), and cases (ib., 1862, ii, 371, 592). J. B. Brown, operation for relaxed sphincter ani (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 72). M. Demarquay, removal of a cancer (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 473). GENITO-TTEIITAUT ORGAJTS. Spermatorrlicea and Onanism.—Dr. T. Clemens states (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, p. 149, &c.) that hypertesthesia of the urethral mucous membrane is a frequent cause of spermatorrhoea, even the passage of the nrine being sufficient to cause an emission. Patients who suffer from this state of the urethra to a less degree are extremely subject to noc- turnal emissions. The author has very often seen such a condition in married men. He has foimd washing with cold water, the sitz-bath, &c., of very little use. The hypera;sthesia may, however, be soon over- come by powerful electrical currents* passed from the perinfBum towards the glaus, across the pelvis, through the rectum and penis; bougies, coated with a saturated solution of sulphate of iron in gly- cerine, may afterwards be used. The diet should be somewhat stimu- lating ; red wine and coitus may be directed with advantage. As reasons for the use of electricity in sucli cases, he states that whilst misuse and excessive irritation of the genitals exhaust the spinal cord, the latter organ is strengthened and stimulated by such means as render the former stronger and better innervated; he has noticed such a reflex action of electricity in cases of onanism. The hyperesthesia is j^er se sufllcieut to cause impotence, the semen being emitted on the slightest irritation, so that coitus becomes impossible.f The autlior has generally been able to trace the hyperesthesia to affections of the spinal cord and onanism ; he has also often found it acccompanied by exactly the oppo- site state of the skin of the penis—anaesthesia. Instead of Lallemand's porte-caustique, he uses electrical shocks passed through an instrument, of which one pole is in the bladder, the other at the anus. J. S. A. Diceuta states (ib., 1862, p. 441) that in 500 cases of sperma- torrhoea he met with about 100 cases of some derangement of the digestive organs, generally constipation or dyspepsia, and about fiftv * The iiutlior generally uses the constant current or friction-electricity, and not Taraflization; tlic latter is often injurious, accoriling to him. t The aiithor gives a clcscrijition of an electrical girdle (ib., 1863, pp. 34, 57), for the prevention of noctumal pollutions.300 RKl'OllT ON SUllGEllY, cases of hsomorrlioids. Tliese morbid conditions appear to have a mutual reaction; the origin of the spermatorrhoea is generally to be found in earlier mastvirbatiou. B. Scliulz does not consider the frequent occurrence of emissions to be a morbid condition, uiiloas they are unaccompanied by libidinous dreams or unattended by erections, because the laws of reflex action are the same during sleep and during waking. ('Wicn. Med. Wochenschr.,' and ' Schmidt's Jalirb.,'vol. 114, p. 351). The induc- tion current is of no use in spermatorrhoea; the constant current, on the other hand, is very beneficial when it is transmitted along the ver- tebral column for one or two minutes, and repeated three or four times a week. Twenty to thirty Daniell's elements, of medium size, should be used ; the positive pole should be applied to about the fifth dorsal vertebra, and the negative to the sacrum or perinteum. This would appear to confirm the statement that the constant cui-rent diminishes the irritability of the spinal cord, and thus renders it less prone to the production of over-hasty reflex motions. Mr. Hilton remarks (' Lancet,' 1863, ii, 123) that "regarding onanism and its treatment, surgeons are often consulted, and it is a very import- ant matter. It is a habit very difficult to contend with in practice. I know of no way to prevent onanism except by freely blistering the penis, in order to make it raw and so sore that it cannot be touched without pain. This plan is sure to cure onanism. I have adopted this plan of treatment during more than twenty years. Gentlemen have come to me and said, ' I have for many years siifteredfrom this abomin- able,'disgusting habit, and I have tried to cure myself of it, but I cannot; for my morbid inclination overcomes my disgust when awake, and I thinlc when asleep I am sometimes pursuing it. Can you offer any sugges- tion ? ' I have said,' Paint this strong solution of iodine over the whole of the skin of the penis every night, and if that does not make the organ too sore for you to touch it, then apply in the sain£ way a strong blister- ing fluid to the penis.' Tiie result of my experience in practice has been that in almost every instance the continuance of the habit has been thus entirely prevented. Here is a case in relation to this subject—the notes are from the patient's surgeon :—' "W. B—, vet. 15, is one of eight children, all of delicate constitution, and himself prone to convulsions in his infancy. After repeated exposure to cold and wet, he called upon his surgeon September 4tli, i860, complaining of pain in the sacrum and left hip and thigh. He was relieved by purgatives and salines, I saw him on September iith, witli both knees flexed, and complaining of great pain in the lower part of the sacrum, with so much tenderness as to be unable to sit down. The left thigh and leg were very tender, and there was excessive tenderness of the surface all down the spine. Xo local indications of heat in any of these parts; bowels constipated ; tongue coated. He was ordered cathartic pills, colchicum, and an aperient mixture, in strong doses ; croton oil and tartar emetic liniment to be rubbed along the dorsal and lumbar portion of the spine. Within a week there was great pain along the cervical portion of the spine, ex- tending to the left arm. Says the motion of tiie slioulder is very pam- ful; elbow free; left hand closed tightly, and any touch cither of theONANISM, SOi fingers or wrist caused him great pain. Slight pressure anywhere on the spine produced great pain, according to his own statement. Sep- tember 19th.—Left hand firmly closed; both thighs drawn up; knees bent, and cannot be extended; toes of left foot inverted, and whole limb very sensitive. The mouth is closed for a few minutes two or three times a day. This went on till October 3rd, when a i)hysician from London saw him. This gentleman, in consultation, thought that he recognised an important pathological state of the bra,in or spinal marrow, and pointed out with great precision the pathological anatomy which was sure to be found at the expected post-mortem examination. This prospect made the friends of the patient very anxious indeed. Ou October 7th he was no better ; head symptoms Avere now added, and for a mini;te [or two he became unconscious, i ith.—No better; valerianate of zinc, with compound rhubarb pills, quinine, &c., were continued. 19th.—Consulted with the physician again; fits and trismus worse. He was ordered to have bichloride of mercury, iodide of potas- sium and bark.' " 30th.—As the patient was getting worse, I was requested to see him. I found him sitting in his chair, the left forearm flexed, with the left thumb turned inwards towards the palm of the hand, and the fingers flexed over it, his face flushing very readily. The skin was cool, and there was no thirst. The pulse was not quick, but the heart was very excitable ; the tongue clean ; the pupils dilated ; the skin exquisitely sensitive to the touch when attention was directed to that point, but not when the mind was diverted from it. The contraction of the limb and hand was constant, but could be overcome by persevering efforts on my part, giving way very suddenly. The spine was tender the whole of the way down. I requested that he might be denuded. The • penis was very sensitive, and the skin, prolonged; the genital organs Avere cold, but highly sensitive; the hands were cold and damp. He had insisted on sleeping by himself, and in a room to himself. The patient watched especially my examination of the genitals, and when I at that moment looked at him seriously, averted his face, as if ashamed. I felt convinced that the whole of the symptoms were the result of onanism. On October 30th I insisted upon his not sleeping alone, so that he might not be able to continue his habit unobserved, and ordered five grains of mercurial ointment to be rubbed once a day into the axilla, so as to divert his mind from the thing I had in view, and I desired that a blistering fluid might be applied to the penis every night. In about three or four days the hands relaxed and opened, the legs remaining contracted ; this contraction continued during sleep. The trismus persisted, but with longer periods of muscular relaxation. The local genital irritation was kept up, small doses of morphia were given at night, and the ointment used till the 20th of JSTovember. The mouth was a little sore, having been made so by the mercury. The ointment was then omitted, but the application to the penis was maintained. " Nov. 23rd.—This is the surgeon's report:—' The fits,' &c., continued till to-day, and to-day the trismus lasted longer than at any former time. Ho suddenly opened his mouth, regained the use of his \e"s and no relapse occurred. Subsequently a mixture of strychnia was' c^ivenREPOKT OX SUllGERY. 302 twice a day.' I afterwards received this letter respecting the case from his surgeon:—'My dear Sii-,—Young B— is and has been quite well; ho is now in London. Ho was cured by the end of last November (one month from my visit). A slight gleet remained for months after; I did nothing for it but cold baths, &c.; The application, I painted tho whole penis well with, was the compound tincture of iodine, made stronger by ten or twelve grains of iodine to each ounce. " It touched him up well," I can tell you; but 1 don't think the friends ever had any idea what wo considered the cause of his illness.' Here is a case, then, which I have placed upon the simple anatomy of the parts—viz., that the same nerves which supply the skin supply the mucous membrane and the muscular apparatus of the jjenis, and I have done so for the purpose of displaying its utility in practice. Not long after I had visited this young patient, a gentleman called upon me. When he came into my room, he said, ' You have performed a miracle, sir!' ' A miracle!' I said ; ' you really take me by surprise. "What do you mean ?' ' Why, you have cured young B—; he is quite well, and at school.. Dr. — said he would surely die from fits, resulting from some constitxitional influences inherited from his father and mother.' I assured him that what I had done was no marvel; that I had simply acted upon common sense, experience, and physiological deduction. With that assurance and explanation he seemed to be satisfied, and so was I." J. r. H. Albers, essay on spermatoiThcea (pp. 152, Bonn). J. L. Milton, on spermatorrhoea and its complications (6th ed.). M. Mallez, on the perineal douche (' Graz. d. Hop.,' 1861, p. 607). Impotence.—B. Schulz considers the definition, that impotence is entire or partial loss of the power of erection in consequence of defective innervation, too narrow (' Wien. Med. AYochenschr.,' and ' Prag. Yiertelj.,' 1862, i, Anal. 61). He treats the physiological sexual act as composed of three principal parts: (1) The sensual excitement or desire. (2) Erection, a reflex efi"ect of desii-e. (3) Voluptuous ejaculation, whilst the penis is erect. At the very commencement of the act, the sensual excitement is often such as to prevent all further functional activity — generally, indeed, from its being present to an excessive degree. Teelings of anxiety and shame soon appear, and many individuals then imagine themselves really impotent; mental depression and deterioration of health are the consequence. Such cases of psychical or hypochon- driacal impotence are not to be treated by electricity ; nil that is necessary is to give the patient confidence. :T-,n:ir'iyp > .*^t= In respect to the second point, he admits, in accordance with the usual view, that there is a close relation of tho medulla oblongata to tlie genitals, and that the former may be excited cither by the will, or by peripheral nervous irritation, a fact which will explain how erection may be excited either by mental impressions or by irritation of the glans or fossa naviculans, by fulness of the bladder, of the rectum, or even of the seminal vesicles. Yet though an erection is always the effect of reflex action, there must algo be some other conditions, such asIMPOTENCE. 303 the normal action of certain muscles and a normal sensibDity of the glans; from which it results, that an imperfect erection may occur, or there may be even no erection at all, when (i) the sensual excitement is abnormally increased or diminished, and (2) when the sensibility of the glans or the reflex action of the m. bulbo-cavernosus is abnormal. The author has met with such cases of impotence, one side of the penis, and generally the left one, being too much or two little sensijiive to electrical irritation of the skin, and the m. bulbo-cavernosus con- tracting irregularly. Anesthesia causes paresis, hypertesthesia spasm, of the bulbo-cavernosus; both these conditions may be readily diagnosed by the use of the electrical pencil. Diminished reflex action—paresis —is much more common in practice than spasm; thus the author observed the latter only in twenty-four out of eighty-three cases. As a typical example of the hyperaesthetic form of impotence, he relates the case of a robust man, aged thirty-six, who had masturbated from his fifteenth or sixteenth year, and who had attempted coitus shortly after- wards without success, owing to a dragging sensation in the penis and perinseum. Prom that time the same sensation had recurred at night, and an emission without erection occurred on any attempt at coitus. The urethra was so sensitive that a bougie could not be passed. The anaesthetic form of impotence is attended by relaxation, paleness, and coldness of the penis, and by a loose and hanging scrotum. Both these varieties of impotence are sometimes only relative, that is, the indi- viduals are impotent only in respect to certain women. The emission of the semen is principally caused by the contraction of the circular muscular fibres of the urethra; the m. bulbo-cavernosus is only secondarily affected. The ejaculation is an effect of reflex action ; there is, indeed, no doubt that the whole of the sexual act is regulated from a nervous centre in the medulla oblongata. The diseases of the spinal cord, which occur in cases of onanism or of ex- cessive sexual indulgence, evidently depend on the frequent nervous u'ritation, for simple seminal discharges, unattended by reflex move- ments, are quite iminjurious. Such discharges not uncommonly accompany the passage of the faeces; they also occur after long continence, and may be most rapidly cured by regular coitus once or twice a week. Too early ejaculations may occur with or without erection ; only the latter can be considered a form of impotence. The author refers ejaculation without erection, spermatorrhcea, day and night pollutions, to excessive irritation; tardy ejaculation and aspermatism, the complete absence of seminal emission, to dimi- nished irritation. He observed a case in which a man of twenty-eight could not ejaculate till coitus had been continued for an hour' and a half or two hours, and a case of aspermatism in a man of twenty-seven who had never been able to ejaculate during coitus, although he had perfect erections; seminal emissions occurred during sleep in both cases. Treaiment.—In this respect, tlie author distinguishes three forms of true impotence—(i) the anasthetic, in which the electro-cutaneous sensibility of particular parts of the penis is diminished; (3) the hyper- sesthetic; and (3) where ejaculation occurs without erection. HeRKPORT ON SUllCJ£lt,Y. treats the first form by applying a pencil connected with the induction apparatus for one or two niinutcH to the different anesthetic parts, ■whilst the other and moistened conduction is placed in the patient's hand. After six or eight minutes, the pencil is changed for a moistened conductor, which is applied to the perinajum, and in very obstinate cases to the fossa navicularis. He obtained good results in the hyper- SDsthetic form from the constant current. Such a current, derived from sixteen or twenty Daniell's elements, was directed from the middle of the spine to the sacrum for three or four minutes, and then the positive pole was applied to the periua3um, and the negative to the glans or back of the penis. He has treated 8.3 cases. Of these, 59 belong to the anaesthetic form; 35 were cured, and 24 were unsuccessful. There were 24 hypertesthetic cases; of these, 13 were treated with the induction current; 3 were cured, 10 were unsuccessful: and 11 were treated with the constant current; 7 were cm*ed, and 4 were unsuccessful. Thus, out of 83 cases, 45 were treated with, and 38 without, success. M. Hieguet, case of aspermatism (Liege, anal, in ' Arch. Gen.,' 1862, ii, 384). B. Schulz, on aspermatism ('Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1862, pp. 769, 787). C. Schmitt, case of aspermatism (' Wiirzb. Zeitschr.,' iii, 361). T. B. Curling, on sterility in. man (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 99). Tabes Dorsalis.—E. Meryon (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 204). Prof. Eemak ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, p. 478). Urethal Fever.—E. Marx has published an essay on intermittent febrile attacks, and on certain inflammations which occui' after opera- tions on the urethra (pp. 124, Paris, Gr. Bailliere, 1861). Under the tead of inflammations, he describes the pyaemic localizations in the joints, muscles, and serous cavities, which not very imfrequentiy follow injuries of the urethra. The term urethal fever should be restricted to certain peculiar inter- mittent attacks of fever, of which the author describes two varieties— the slight and the severe. In the former the rigor is generally sudden, though occasionally it is preceded by such symptoms as loss of appetite or lassitude ; its duration varies from a few minutes to an hour ; should it continue for a longer period, and especially if it is more than usuallj^ intense, it is probably the precursor of a severe attack. The skin is shrivelled; the nails, the tip of the nose, and the lips are pale; the breathing is oppressed; the pulse is rapid and sometimes irregular; the thirst is intense; the sensation of cold is most distressing. Then follows a hot stage, of which, however, the intensity bears no propor- tion to that of the rigor ; thus excessive heat may follow a slight rigor, and vice versa. At this time the breathing beomes more free and the anxiety disappears ; the pvdse becomes full, frequent, and more regular ; the face becomes red, the thirst continues great, the head is painful, and the eyes are much congested. After a time the pulse becomes weaker and slower; the thirst diminishes ; sweating commences; the patient becomes calm, and falls asleep ; the pulse, however, remams somewhat rapid, till even the following morning. Such attacks generally commence from three to four hours after the operation,UliETHllAL FEVER. 305 passage of a bougie, &c., and not uufrequentl)^ recur on four or five successive days. The severe attacks may be again subdivided into— (1) Those, where the patient is not affected by any serious chronic disease of the geuito-urinary organs. (2) Fulminating attacks, rapidly causing death. (3) Those complicated with some serious disease of the genito- urinary organs. In these forms, the cold stage is often very prolonged, and followed by other alarmiug symptoms, such as stupor or delirium, difficult breathing or even ijneumonia, tympanitis, constipation, vomiting, or diarrhoea. It must be noticed that, in many cases of disease of tho genito-urinary organs, attacks of intermittent, or of slight continued fever occur before any surgical treatment has been employed. It may be taken as a general principle in respect to the prognosis, that wheu well-marked hot and sweating stages succeed the rigor the patient almost always recovers; and, on the other hand, that where moderate reaction does not take place an unfavourable result must be dreaded. Treatment.—M. Eicord, who for a long time denied the value of sulphate of quinine in urethral fever, now administers it as a preventive in all cases, where he is about to perform an operation on the urethra. He gives it for four or five days before the operation to the amount of forty or fifty centigr. (6 to 7 grains) daily, if the patient is young, and has not had previously any attack either from catheterism, or owing to malaria; in the latter cases, or if the patient is old and weak, it may be increased to seventy or eighty centigr. (11 to 12 grains) in the twenty- four hours. Mr. Long has recommended the tincture of aconite (' Liverpool Med.-Chir. Journ.,' Jan., 1858). Civiale has for a long period urged preliminary treatment by soft bougies, as a means of preventing further complications—a method advised also by Mr. Henry Thompson. As to the curative treatment, rest, and sucb means as promote the sweating stage, will alone be demanded in slight cases. In the more serious forms, fifty centigr. (8 grains) of quinine should be swallowed immediately after the attack, and the same dose should be given per anvm. If the attacks recur, the dose of the medicine should be in- creased, till several grammes are given in the twenty-four hours (i gramme= 15-43 grains Engl.). Large doses should be given iu enemas, and not by the mouth. In a case of urethral fever, related by M. Bricheteau, the sulphate, which had been gradually augmented to a gramme, excited nervous symptoms and gastric derangement, and was therefore stopped: three days later, as the fever had become more intense, two grammes were given in an enema—the fever ceased. One or two hours in the day and ten or twelve iu the night should be left between eacb dose; in serious cases the quantity must be gradually increased, till toxic nervous symptoms make their appearance. The quinine must be given by the skin, if the patient has constant vomiting or diarrhcea. The fever, which occurs independently of an operation, is unaffected by quinine, and its only certain treatment is by attention to the disease on which it depends. This is well shown in a case of dysuria, which 20806 UBPOUT ON SUUaEUY. has been related by M. Mercier, in which the patient suffered, even before any examination liad been made, from very severe attaciis of fever, which were unaffected by quiaiue. A prostatic obstruction was excised; fever again inatle its appearance after tiie operation, but was at once arrested by the same medicine which liad previously failed. Penis.—Dr. Hosier, urtemia, &c., from phymosis (' Arch. d. lleilk.,' 1863, p. 289). Dr. Steinhaus, apparent absence of the penis, operation ('"VVien. Med. Halle.,' 1862, p. ,315). Mr. Dick, on phymosis (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 220). M. Dolbeau, on epispadias (' Paris, A. Delahaye'). M. PoUin, case of epispadias ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 335). Mr. Lee, perinreal section after the destruction of four inches of the penis ('Lancet, 1862, i, 222). Scrotum.—Elephantiasis, Prof. Fayrer, ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,'vii, 718 ; ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 274). Dr. AVibliu (Ibid., pp. 339, 555 ; ' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' vol. xlvi, p. i). J. P. Ogilvie (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, p. 511). J. B. Quinlan, on haemorrhage in operations (lb., 1863, i, pp. 133, 516). Varicocele.—M.T. Lee ('Brit. Med. Jour.,' 186I, ii, 602). Mr. Tufnell ('Dubl. Quart.,' vol. xxxii, p. 331). Cases of excision of the skin ('Araer. Med. Times,' 1861, ii, 272). Hydrocele.—J. U. Gillespie, wire seton(' Edinb.Med. Journ.,'vii,629). M. Duval, method of avoiding the testis ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 293). M. Gosselin, operation for congenital hydrocele and hernia (lb., p. 158). T. Euthnum, on chylous hydrocele (' Madras Quart. Journ.,' iv, 421). Testis.—H. Demme, tubercular disease ('Arch. f. path. Anat.,' xxii, 155). M. Dauve, on enchondroma (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 15). M. Laugier, traumatic orchitis (lb., 1863, p. 449). Drs. Mudge aud Van Someren, fungus testis treated by iodide of potassium (' Madras Quart. Journ.,' iv, 187). Vidva and Vagina.—M. Boys de Loury, elephantiasis (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 190). M. Boulogne, operation for elephantiasis of the labia (lb., 1862, p. 189). MM. Martin and Leger, on inflammations of the vulva ('Arch. Gen.,' 1862, i, 174). L. Le Port, on malformations of the uterus and vagina (pp. 210, Paris, A. Delahaye). BLADDEE. Hair-pin hi tie Uadder of a girl set. 19 ('Lancet,' 1863, i, 235). "An attempt was made to extract it by introducing forceps into the bladder, and grasping the pin, but it was too firmly fixed to allow of extraction, Soon after her admission, under Mr. Hilton's care, she was rendered insensible by chloroform, and a pair of dressing forceps were introduced into the urethra, so as to dilate it. First, the little finger, and subse- quently, the forefinger, were passed into the bladder, and the hau--pin could be felt towards the patient's right side, firmly fixed in the right wall of the viscus. The reflected part of the body being directed upwards and backwards, one leg of the pin was seized by the forceps several times, but could not be drawn towards the urethra without em- ploying injudicious force. The patient was replaced in bed, warm poppy fomentations were applied over the bladder, and five grains ot Dover s807 HAIH-PIN IN THE BLADDEB. powder given her every six hours. No untoward symptom supervened, and she felt well in tliree days, and could retain her urine for several hours. At the expiration of a week chloroform was again administered, and Mr. Hilton passed his little finger, and then his forefinger along the urethra into the bladder, and felt the pin still fixed across the right side of the viscus, with the bent part of the body directed backward. A blunt hook, directed by the forefinger, was passed so as to hook on to the hair-pin, and it was pulled first towards the patient's left side, so as to disengage its point from the right side of the bladder, and then drawn downwards towards the urethra, and thus extracted without difficulty. It was then discovered that a piece of one of the legs of the pin had been broken off and left within the bladder, but the finger could not detect it. The bladder was therefore distended by the injection of warm water, and the water allowed to gush outwards, and with it floated the remaining piece of the pin, about an inch long." Had either 6f the pointed legs presented, Mr. Hilton would have employed a blunt hook provided with an eye ; the latter would have been passed over the point and then run along till it reached the bend. The patient could in a few days retain her urine almost as well as before the operation. She left the hospital in every respect well at the expiration of a fortnight. In some remarks on a similar case, Dr. Billroth states (' Schweiz. Zeitschr. f. Heilk.,' i, 56), that he has found no bad effect from dilating the female urethra with a blunt-pointed knife, towards one side, suflBi- cientiy to introduce the forefinger. The only thing that he has noticed is, that when the patient stands up, she sometimes experiences a violent desire to make water, a state which rarely continues more than two or three days. He cannot understand how complicated methods of opera- ting for stone in the female can be recommended. A few months since a woman with stone in the bladder came into the hospital; he dilated the urethra, felt with the finger a stone as big as a large plum ; broke it with strong forceps, extracted the fragments, and cleared the debris out by injection. No fever followed; the patient was cured, and left the hospital in eight days. The urethra is often so large in females, that the finger can be at once introduced into it. The operation for vesico-vaginal fistula is much facilitated by the introduction of the finger into the bladder ; the sutures are applied with far more certainty and exactness by this means than when the fistula is reached from the vagina alone. B. Solt, on certain errors m the diagnosis and treatment of retention of urine (' Lancet,' 1863, i, 202). " Ketention of urine in a healthy man (excluding that from stricture of the urethra) may be said to occur generally from one of these causes—(i) From over-distension conse- quent on the postponement of the act of micturition. (2) Upon spasm arising from irritation of the urine after a debauch. (3) From either or both of the above acting upon an elderly person subject to more or less enlargement of the prostate." It is generally supposed that the diagnosis will be at once determined by the introduction of the catheter, but according to Mr. Holt's experience, in this proceeding, " a fallacy occurs which constantly leads to most serious error. The surgeon introduces a silver catheter into the urethra, it is true, but the instru-308 llEFORT ON SURGERY. ineut never i-caclies tlio bladder, being eitber too sbort (as is frequently the case, especially wben the prostate is enlarged_), or, being thrust on- wards, makes a false passage in which the point becomes entangled. Or again, the surgeon employs an elastic catheter withont a stilette, under tlie impression that thus no damage can possibly be done; and the instrument is then either too abort, or, as is frequently the case, it bends upon itself, and never reaches the bladder at all. It has happened that a catheter has been blocked with coagul um, &c., which has not allowed the passage of urine, even after the catheter has entered the bladder; but only great carelessness could overlook this. The only way to be perfectly certain that a catheter has reached an empty bladder is to inject water through it, which it will readily admit; whereas if the instrument has not reached the bladder, it will be impossible to inject more than a few drops. The same plan may be adopted in those rare cases where a fall bladder has been reached, but the instrument has become tempo- rarily obstructed with clot, which prevents the exit of urine." "In January, 1861, I was requested to visit Mr. M—, a hale, hearty man, ast. 62, who was suffering from retention of urine, arising from over-distension of the bladder. He told me that whilst travelling from Birmingham to London he had, after leaving Eugby, an urgent desire to pass urine, which he was compelled to repress, and when he arrived in jjondon he found it impossible to relieve himself of even the smallest quantity. He drove to his house as quickly as possible, and sent for his surgeon, who attempted to pass a catheter, but failed. There was considerable haemorrhage from the urethra, but no urine passed ; the patient was therefore placed in a warm bath, ..and twenty minims of tincture of opium were administered. At midnight I was requested to see him, when a superficial examination sufficed to show that the bladder was greatly distended, and upon passing & prostatic catheter (which was accomplished without the slightest difficulty) more than a quart of urine was removed. Vivid recollections of previous cases in which grave errors had been committed, induced me to point out particularly to the practitioner in attendance the necessity of introducing the catheter at least four times in the twenty-four hours, in order that the bladder might be kept moderately empty, and so be enabled to recover its tone; but that gentleman, believing that all difficulty in the treatment of the case was over, did not think it necessary that I should see the patient again. A fortnight afterwards I had occasion to meet the same prac- titioner', and upon inquiring aboirt his patient, learned that he was dead and buried! I afterwards ascertained that the bladder had not been relieved by the catheter, as I had advised, because the urine had dribbled away after many hours' retention, and it was therefore believed that there was not any in the bladder." In another case, " in addition to the urgent symptoms consequent upon an over-distended bladder, the patient lost a considerable quantity of blood from the bladder, whicii was not effectually arrested until 1 had recourse to the admiuistration of turpentine in ten minim doses, the good effects of which i have frequently witnessed in such cases. " Towards the close of last year I was requested by telegram to proceed to a town more than 150 miles distant, to visit a gentleman who had309 IlETKNTION OF UlUNE. alarming vesical hjemorrhage. Upon niy arrival I fouud tlie patieut, Avho was sixt^-two years of age, pallid and feeble, ])artly from loss of blood, and pa'rtly from the exhaustion incidental to low irritative fever. On inquiry, I found that my patient, who up to ten days before had enjoyed most excellent health, had had, whilst engaged iu transacting important business, an ui'gent desire to void urine, but was unable to quit the room for that piirpose, and that when able to do so a short time afterwards, he had found himself incapable of micturating. A surgeon was sent for, who attempted to introduce a catheter into the bladder, and the instrument Avas said to haxe j^cssedfor its icJiole length, but no urine was withdrawn. Similar attempts were repeated three or fom* times, but with the same result; and, although the patient was suffering the most intense agony, the case was now considered to be one of " suppression," and linseed meal poultices were applied to the abdomen, whilst the patient was desired to drink plentifully of barley-water and linseed-tea, in order to ^force tJie water.'' On the following day the urine was passed in small quantities at short intervals, the swelling and agony remaining unrelieved, and the patient became much exhausted and passed into a typhoid condition. After having been allowed to remain Avith a distended bladder/b;* six dai/s, another surgeon was con- sulted, who passed a catheter without difficulty, and removed three 2nnts of bloodi/ tirine. This gave great relief, and the patient rallied; but the urine, which was drawn oS' only twice a day, still contained a large quantity of blood, which was unchecked by gallic acid,'tincture of iron, and turpentine in two minim doses, and I was therefore summoned. On my arriviil I at once introduced a gum-elastic catheter, and removed a pint of urine loaded with blood; and having then washed the bladder out with cold water, I fastened the catheter iu, and directed the patient to evacuate the bladder every four hours. Turpentine, iix ten minim doses, in mucilage, Avas given internally, and repeated every four hours, and produced an almost immediate effect upon the haemorrhage. In consequence of the coagulum which remained iu the bladder, the eye of 'the catheter became blocked during the night, and the patient was tmable to relieve himself. I therefore removed the instrument, and introduced one with a large eye, through v/hich the urine, containing now but little blood, flowed freely. On the following day the urine was nearly natural, and the patient somewhat improved in general con- dition ; and the reports subsequently forwarded to me state that the appetite has returned, the bowels are regular, and the uriue is free from blood, but that the patient has as yet no poiuer of expulsion, and is still obliged to have the catheter employed. Iron and quinine are now being administered, and the urine is withdrawn three times duriug the day, and twice in the night. The patient is able to take a daily airing in his carriage; but it remains to be seen whether he will recover the power over his bladder." " Such cases may be termed aciUe, but there are others of a more chronic character in which mistakes of a similar kind are continually occurring. I mean those iu wliich there is frequency of micturition of some months' duration, accompanied by great general irritation of the system with excessive thirst, and iu which the fact that the patientKEPOllT ON StTEGERY. uever thoroughly empties his hladder, but leaves a constant residuum of urine, has been entirely overlooked. The following is a good case in point:—Mr. P residing on tlie south coast, consulted me last year in consequence of frequency of micturition, which necessitated his relieving himself every three-quarters of an hour, both night and day. His health was greatly impaired from want of rest, he was very irritable, and had pain over the pubes and excessive thirst, lie had consulted several surgeons, who had prescribed various remedies without relief A careful inquiry into the history of the case, assured me that the bladder remained always more or less permanently full, although the ordinary quantity of urine was passed during tiie twenty-four hours, and although his urethra readily admitted, as he told me, a No. lo catheter. He had no power of ejecting the urine any distance from his lodi/, but it came away in a dribbling, uncertain stream, wliich dropped down between the legs. I desired him to micturate before me, when only about an ounce escaped ; but upon introducing a catheter, I drew off five ounces of offensive iirine, and upon injecting the bladder with Avarm water found that it would not hold more than six ounces. The nature of the case was thus obvious; for six months this gentleman had been suffering from retention of urine, although he passed as much during the twenty-four hours as the kidneys secreted. I desired him to pass his catheter every six hours, and to wash out the bladder every night, gradually increasing the quantity of water injected, so as, if possible, to distend the bladder eventually to its normal capacity. He was ordered to live well and take wine (from which he had previously been debarred), with the tincture of steel twice a day. In a few days he had so far improved as not to require to pass urine more frequently than every four hours, and he now has improved materially in general health ; his thirst has entirely subsided, and he has gained flesh, whilst the capacity has so improved that he has to relieve himself only once during the night. It is more than probable that this gentleman's bladder may never recover its tone, and that the error of treatment committed will necessitate the constant use of a cathether for the rest of Ms life ; but as he has gained some slight power of expulsion during the last few weeks, it is just possible that we may alleviate his unfortunate condition." " The diagnosis between retention and suppression is so very easy as to render a mistake perfectly inexcusable. In retention there is the urgent desire to micturate, accompanied with violent spasms, not only of the urethra and perineum, but of the whole abdominal wall; and as time elapses, the imjency increases, the patient rolling in agony, and straining violently to relieve himself Besides, the surgeon's hand will at once detect the solid tumour above the pubes, formed by the distended bladder, which will yield a dull sound on percussion. In suppression of urine, on the contrary, there is no urgent desire to micturate, no spasm, and no agony consequent on a distended bladder; but the patient lies in a listless condition, soon passing into coma, whilst the breatli and skin exhale a strong in-inous smell. Moreover, the bladder will be found empty, and the fingers can be thrust nito the pelvis, where the intestines yield a clear percussion sound. It must not311 UETENTION OP XTEINE. be forgotten that a case of retention will at length pass into a typhoid condition, which might possibly be mistaken for the coma of uraemic poisoning; but the history of the case, and the presence of a distended bladder and dribbling of urine, would at once point out its true nature." C. H. Moore, on a method of operating for retention of urine in certain cases of cancer of the vulva (' Lane.,' 1863, ii, 218). "There appear to be serious objections to the methods suggested for punc- turing the bladder in women. The most promising operation is that through the linea alba, and the most disappointing ; for it, more than any other, is attended with the subsequent inconvenience, that an instrument can scarcely, and sometimes cannot, be retained in the track of the puncture. The cause of this difficulty is twofold. On the one hand, as it is the function of the bladder to expel its contents, a catheter or a canula is at least as sure to be extruded as the natural contents of the organ; on the other hand, the channel of the puncture, though at first direct, becomes curved as the \irine escapes. When the bladder is full, the apertures in the linea alba and the bladder corres- pond in situation. It is at this time that the puncture is made. But when the bladder contracts, the puncture in it descends far below that in the linea alba, and a tube, which is flexible enough to lie in both openings, is easily pushed out of the minor one by the bladder. Unless the tube can be re-introduced, Avhich is not always the case, the urine collects in the bladder again, or is infiltered in the tissues outside it." In the case, described by Mr. Moore, difficult micturition had been gradually induced by the presence of a large tumour, springing from the ramus of the os pubis and ischium, by enlargement and protrusion of the clitoris and nymphss, and by oedema of the whole vulva. As the disease advanced, the " difficulty increased; the desii-e to pass urine was frequent and urgent; the quantity which escaped at each effort lessened; at length, a teaspoonful only vras voided a few times a day, and no permanent relief was obtained even in the warm hip-bath. The bladder rose to the level of the umbilicus—a broad smooth rounded swelling, dull on percussion, and tender when touched. The countenance looked distressed, and its hue dark. No relief could be afforded to the bladder by the use of the catheter. The meatus was hidden in the swollen parts, and their tender condition, together with the tight constriction of the urinary passage, precluded the use of instruments. As soon, therefore, as the obstruction had reached the degree which has just been described, and it was evident that no relief to the tension of the parts was about to be afi'orded by a spontaneous sloughing of the tumour, I determined to puncture the bladder." " Having had chloroform administered, I introduced Mr. Cock's long curved trocar and canula about an inch above the pubes, and passed it through the linea alba into the bladder. Withdrawing the trocar, I evacuated about half the urine, and relaxed the tension of the bladder. Then directing the canula behind the symphisis pubis, and pressing it, as nearly as I could judge, against the inner end of the meatus urinarius, I re-introduced the trochar into the canula, andsn HEPORT ON SUKGRIIY. pushed both tlirough to the vulva. Tlie rolaxatiou of the bladder enabled me so far to depress the handle of the instrument against the abdomen, tliat its point came out between the orifices of the vagina and the meatus. The bladder was thus transfixed. I then withdrew the trocar, and passed a string through the canula. To the lower end of the string, I attached the point of a gum elastic catheter of the same size as the canula, and was thus enabled to pull both upwards together, and, as I withdrew the canula, to substitute the catheter for it in the double puncture. A cross piece of wood tied in front of the abdomen to the upper end of the catheter prevented it from slipping backward, and I found that when the wood was against the skin, about one-half of the catheter projected below the vulva; but of course no urine escaped. It only remained to make a lateral opening at about the middle of the catheter in the part nearest the vulva, through which the urine might flow when that part of the instrument was pulled far enough upward. This arrangement was found to be both convenient and safe. Each end of the catheter was secured against withdrawal: the upper end by the piece of wood, and the lower by the ivory ring of the catheter. The bladder being not simply punctured, but transfixed, its wall could slide up and down the catheter securely, but the instru- ment could not be thrust out of the cavity. And as to the evacuation of the urine, it was only necessary, after oiling the lower half of the catheter, to pull upon its upper end until the lateral hole made in its middle reached the vesical cavity; the urine would then flow out through the lower end . of the instrument. When the bladder was emptied, and the upper end of the catheter oiled, traction on the lower end of it brought the hole out of the bladder, and no urine could flow through it. " Sleep and freedom from pain followed the relief of the retention. In a couple of days the dusky hue of the countenance had disappeared, and a little appetite returned. Some tenderness and swelling came on before the end of a week in the anterior part of'the abdomen, a little to the right of the upper puncture, but both subsided in a few days. About a fortnight after the operation, the upper track became too large for the catheter, and the urine welled up continuously by the side of it. Some pus, mucus, and a little urine escaped when the catheter was pulled up for the purpose of emptying the bladder. Tearing there might be inflammation of the bladder from the constant pressure of the instrument, I had a new catheter introduced, and the bladder frequently washed out with tepid water. As the catheter had three openings—one above, one in tlie bladder, and one below—the cleansing was very conveniently done by means of a syringe. The secretion of pus and mucus speedily ceased, and the patient from that time continued at ease, so far as micturition is concerned, and she suffered from the original disease considerably less than in the early period of the case." The advantages of this method were, according to the author, that " it afforded easy exit for the urine ; it averted the liability of tiie tube to slip out of the bladder; it allowed of the syringing or irrigation of the bladder, which might become necessary; and it was wipable of813 LITHOTRITY. being coutinuousl}'' employed throughout the remainder of the patient's life." T. Holmes, on congenital extroversion ('Lane.,' 1863, i, 714). Prof. Zeissl, on acute catarrh ('Wien. Med. ITalle,' 1863, pp.3, ip)- J- Adams, case of operation for abscess, &c., (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, i, 506). ]3r. Eiganer, on retention of ui-ine ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, p. 483, &c.) ^Y. Brown, villous cancer (' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' viii, 1036). "W. H. Banking, encephaloid disease ('Brit. Med. Joiirn.,' 1863, ii, 209). UnETHEA. Statistics of internal urethrotomy.—M. Maisonneuve has furnished to tlie Surgical Society of Paris a resume of the operations of nrethro- toiny, which he has performed in the hospitals during the last ten years (' Graz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 692). The cases are distributed by him into three groups: the first contains those from 1853 to 1858, when he employed a urethrotome with an uncovered sharp edge, and did not adopt the after-use of the catheter ; there were 70 cases, of which five died from the operation, and four from accidental causes. The second group contains'the cases from 1858 to 1861, when, he employed free incisions with the lithotome cache of Frere Come ; 30 cases, 6 deaths from the operation, and 2 from other causes. The third group includes from 1861 to 1863, when he employed the urethrotome with uncovered, but blunted blade, and constantly retained the catheter after the operation; 40 cases, one death. M. Guyon, on malformation of the urethra in the male (pp. 180, Paris, A. Delahaye). E. Fiirstenheim, the endoscop ('Deutsche Klin.' 1863, p. 313). A. Haken, on urethroscopy (' Wien. Med.Wochenschr,' 1862, p. 177). W. Busch, simple method of changing the catheter in wounds (' Arch, f Klin. Chir.,' iv, 36). Prof. Linhart, Caruncles (' Wiirzb. Zeitschr,' iv, 87). M. Arrachart, obliteration, &c. (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 430). Dr. Montgomery, urethral calculus (' Madras Quart. Journ.,' v, 171). Prostate.—P. Pauli, on hypertrophy (Arch. f. path. Anat.,' vol, xxvii, p. 27). Stricture.—P. Tillaux, on urethrotomy (Paris, Asselin.) M. Pliillips, cases of urethrotomy ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 594). M. Voillemier, on urethrotomy from before backwards (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 474). P. H. Watson, steel catheter (' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' vol. ix, p. 56). M. Bourguet, on the radical cure (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 418). Prof. Dittel, on the nosology of urethral fistuloe (' Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863, pp. 252, 257). STONE IS' THE BL.U)DEH. Practical maxims in litliotrilij.—(H. Thompson, practical lithotomy and lithotrity, p. 211.) (1) Let the urethra at the outset be accustomed to contact with instruments, so that the lithotrite, which it is necessary to employ, can be passed without causing much uneasiness or any bleeding. ' (2) Always operate, whenever this is possible, witliout previously disturbing the bladder by injecting or sounding.814 REPORT ON SURGERY. (3) Having determinetl the position of tlie patient according to the necessities of the case, slowly introduce the lithotrite, and take care that the blades reach or pass beyond the centre of the bladder before the male blade is withdrawn. (4) Execute every movement deliberately; open and close, incline, or rotate, slowly, without any jerk whatever; and all without bringing the blades into contact, as far as it is possible, with the walls of the bladder. (5) Maintain the long axis of the instrument in the median line of the body, and the blades at or near the centre of the bladder, this being the area for operating mostly to be chosen. In screwing home the male blade to crush, it is especially necessary to keep the instrument steady, otherwise niuch vibration of it may be occasioned, and much lateral movement of the blades from its axis at each turn ; a small deviation at the handle produces a large one at the blades. (6) The usual position of a large stone is near the necii of the bladder; of a small one at or near the back of the trigone, and the lithotrite should be applied accordingly. (7) When the stone is caught, especially if in the fenestrated litho- trite, rotate it a fourth of a turn on its axis before screwing up iirmly or crushing, to make certain that notliing is included besides the stone. (8) Having broken a stone or a large fragment, the operator may pick up and crush piece after piece consecutively, without further searching, if he is only careful to work the lithotrite exactly at the same spot—the patient of course not shifting his position—since fragments fall immediately beneath the blades of the instrument, and rest there. (9) Never withdraw a lithotrite loaded with calculous debris; a moderate quantity will come away between the plain blades ; but if an impediment is felt at the neck of the bladder on withdrawing, return to the centre of the cavity and unload them. Xhis can always be done Avith a properly constructed lithotrite. (10) No sitting should exceed five minutes in duration, except under very peculiar circumstances. The large majority of sittings should occupy only three minutes, some less. The mere sojourn of a lithotrite, without any movement, for three minutes in the bladder, causes un- easiness, and often subsequent irritability, which may be considerable if the time is prolonged. (11) If the patient experiences an unusual amount of pain at the commencement of any sitting, it is wise to postpone it until another day, or make it very short. Such unlooked-for pain is a useful intimation that tlie urinary ipassages are not at this time in fit condition for our piu-pose, and by acting upon it, we may avoid serious mischief (12) After the first sitting, it is generally desirable that the patient should have hot fomentations to the hypogastrium and perineum, remain in the horizontal position, and pass his water in tliat position, if he can. He should remain tolerably quiet until the debris has passed, which usually happens within three days of the sitting. (13) The removal of debris by injecting ;^and washing out the315 LITHOTOMY IN THE FEMALE. bladder, is to be considered the exception to, and not the rule of, practice. Vse of chloroform.—^Ir. H. CoUis notes ('Dubl. Quart. Journ,, May, 1862) that " if chloroform is used, the old plan of fastening the hands to the feet must be abandoned, because the chest is thereby dangerously compressed and respiration impeded." Lithotomy in the Female, by J. E. Lane (' Lane.,' 1863, i, 34, 57).— " My object in the present communication is, in the first instance, to call attention to what I believe to be, in appropriate cases, a greatly improved plan of operation ; and in addition to this to inquire how far ■we can determine—(i) "Whether some of the various operations pro- posed may not now with advantage be discarded altogether; (2) "Which of them are worthy of being retained; and (3) Whether amongst these latter, we can find good grounds for allotting to each its own appropriate class of cases." Mr. Lane was led to consider the subject of lithotomy in the female in consequence of a case which has been already reported (' Lane.,' 1862, ii, 370). The patient, whose age was thirty-eight, had suffered from stone for many years; an attempt, which he made to crush it, so greatly aggravated her symptoms, that its immediate i-emoval became a matter of imperative necessity. " The operation was performed in the following manner:—The patient being placed in the lithotomy position, Bozeman's speculum was introduced into the vagina, and held so as to expose its anterior wall, and a straight grooved staff was passed into the bladder by the urethra. An incision was then made into the groove of the staff", commencing just behind the neck of the bladder, and extending backward in the median line for about an inch and tliree quarters—to within a short distance, in fact, of the attach- ment of the vagina to the cervix uteri. Through this incision the stone, which was nearly two inches in length, was readily extracted. The edges of the wound were then brouglit into apposition by twelve silver-wire sutures. Immediate relief of all the painful symptoms followed the operation; tlie greater pai't of the incision united by first intention, but, unfortunately, a small portion of its edges at the anterior part sloughed, and when the slough separated, the urine made its way into the vagina. This opening, however, healed by granulation, the granulating surfaces being held together by the inser- tion of two wire sutures. It remained closed for a fortnight, the patient being able to retain half a pint of urine without difficulty ; but at the end of this time, the uniting medium, which was at one point very thin, gave way, and an opening was formed just large enough to admit a probe. Failing to close this by repeated applications of caustic, I pared its edges, and again applied sutures, this time with complete success, and the patient shortly afterwards left the hospital quite well, having perfect control over her urine, and all inflammation and irrita- bility of the bladder having subsided, the vesico-vaginal septum remaining as thick and strong along the line of the incision as else- whpre." Vesico-vaginal lithotomy has been practised by many operators since the time of Kousset, but the danger of its leaving a fistulous aperture316 nEl'OIlT ox SUllGERY. was so groat, tliiit it lias beeu generally regarded with disfavour. " Now, liowever, all this is changed. The experience of the last ten years, has abundantly shown that almost every case of vesico-vaginal fistula, even when atttMided with great loss of substance, may be firmly and permanently closed by the improved plastic procedures now in use. We may tiierefore very fairly feel confidence in our ability to close the clean longitudinal incision made for the extraction of a stone; which is attended by uo loss of substance, and with no cicatricial contraction or induration." " Vaginal lithotomy, immediately followed by suture, possesses, in my opinion, many and great advantages. Perhaps there is no part of the vesical parietes, whicii may be incised with so little risk. The in- cision being in the median line, no vessels of any magnitude are likely to be wounded. The vesico-vaginal septum is composed of dense tissue, little, if at all, liable to urinary infiltration, and the free outlet pro- vided for the urine would, even under other circumstances, render sucli an occurrence improbable. The chance of pelvic cellulitis is, therefore, remote. The peritoneum is not likely to be injured, for even if the incision required to be carried as far back as the attachment of the vagina to the cervix uteri, the vesico-uterine reflexion of the peritoneum is situated nearly an inch higher up. Veipeau, in his inquiry into the historj' of the operation, seems to have been struck W'ith its great im- munity from danger, and with the slight degree of constitutional dis- turbance which it entails; in fact, he did not meet with the record of a single fatal case." Mr. Lane urges that the urethra " should on no account be interfered with. The incision should commence just behind the neck of the bladder ; that is to say, in an adult person at least an inch and a quarter behind the external orifice of the urethra. Incision of the urethra gives no additional room, but increases the length of the wound without any compensating advantage whatever, and the uretljral portion of the wound is incomparably more difficult to close than that which is deeper in the vagina. " The conclusion wliich I have formed is that in an adult female, and e&pecially in the case of a large stone, lithotomy through the vagina, conducted on proper principles, and followed by immediate closure of the wound, is the safest and best procedure that has as yet been devised, and deserves to be accepted as a recognised operation in surgery. It should be understood, however, that it is not applicable to children; neither is it well adapted for young unmarried women, in whom the difficulties of this operation must necessarily be greatly increased." As to tlie other modes by which a stone may be removed from the female bladder, the author considers that the high operation should be " dismissed altogether from the practice of surgery. The only con- ceivable case in which it would be justifiable would be, perhaps, one in ■which, with a deformed pelvis and a very large stone, extraction per vaginam was impossible." " Urethral dilatation should be only practised in cases where the stone is of small size. To fix a maximum, I would say, in an adult, not larger, certainly, than an acorn, and in a child not larger than a horsebean."317 LITHOTOMY IN THE PEiMALE. "Though incision of the urethra downioards towards the vagina is in every way objectionable, it is otherwise as regards incisions made in an ttpw'ard direction. By dividing the nrethra and neck of the bladder towards the symphisis pubis, room may be obtained for the extraction of a moderate-sized stone, without injury to any important structure, and Avithont the disadvantage of laying one mucous canal open into another, wlien the two are only separated naturally by a very thin par- tition." Mr. Lane would prefer:—"If any incision of the urethra is to be made to depend upon incision alone, rather than combine it with dilatation; and I believe that by so doing the chance of incontinence would be diminished. Of all the urethral methods, it appears to me that the incision upwards is the only one at all deserving of confidence. It is, perhaps, not altogether devoid of the risk of urinary infiltration into the loose areolar tissue between the bladder and the symphysis pubis; but the urethra, which is situated at tlae bottom of the incision, forms so convenient a groove for the escape of urine, tliat this risk is probably not very great. I should myself, in a suitable case, always prefer the vaginal incision, as attended with less risk at the time, and less danger of subsequent incontinence; but the urethral incision, for a moderate-sized stone, is undoubtedly a much easier and less trouble- some operation. " The lateral operation is a method which, though it can scarcely be called new, is not at all generally known, and not nearly so well known as, I think, it deserves to be. It is, as neai-ly as the diflerent structure of the parts will permit, the exact counterpart of the lateral operation in the male. It may be pei-formed in the following manner:—a straight grooved staff having been introduced into the bladder, an incision is to be made on the inner surface of the left nympha, commencing half an inch above the meatus urinarius, and passing obliquely downwards and outwards parallel with the rami of the pubes and ischium. This in- cision should be carried deeply into the space between the rami on the outside and the vagina on the inside, care being taken not to wound the vagina, which should be protected, and pushed inwards towards the median line by the left forefinger, introduced into the wound. With the same finger the stafi" should be felt for deeply in the wound, and the knife should be made to penetrate the groove at a point corresponding, as nearly as can be judged, to the vesical termination of the urethra. It sliould then be passed onwards into the bladder, its cutting edge being turned obliquely downwards and outwards towards the left side, just as in lateral lithotomy in the male. The incision may be enlarged, should it be thought necessary, as the knife is withdrawn, by a further division of the tissues in the same oblique direction. The ordinary lithotomy forceps can then be introduced into the wound for the extrac- tion of the stone. This operation, or something very like it, seems to ])ave been practised by Frere Jacques. It has been condemned in suc- cession by several writers of note, but, as it appears to me, without sufficient grounds. Its revival, or, I might almost say, its introduction, is due to I)r. Andrew Bucliauau, of Glasgow." The author terminates his remarks by submitting for consideration the conclusions which he has himself formed, " Avith reference to the818 REPORT ON SURGERY. subject of lithotomy in the female, bearing in mind always that, though the first object is undoubtedly to remove the stone with as little risk as possible to the life of the patient, yet that it is of almost equal import- ance that this should be done without permanent injury to the reten- tive function of the bladder and urethra. These conclusions arc briefly as follows:— " ist. That dilatation of the urethra should only bo employed for the removal of stones of very limited size; otherwise it is attended with serious risk of incontinence of urine, that incontinence heincf incurable. " 2nd. That incisions of the urethra in the doiunward direction should be discarded altogether; but that the incision tiptvards may be practised with but little danger to life, and little risk of incontinence of urine. It is not, however, adapted for the removal of stones of any considerable magnitude, neither is it well suited for children. I believe free incision to be preferable to any combination of incision with dilatation. "3rd. That the vesico-vaginal incision, with immediate closure of the wound by suture, is admirably adapted for the removal of stones in the case of adult women, in whom the vagina is of average capacity; that it is the only safe and available method for the removal of stones of large size ; that it is attended with a minimum of immediate risk, and no risk at all permanent incontinence of urine. "4th. That the lateral operation of Dr. Buchanan is founded upon sound anatomical and surgical principles, and is probably the best opera- tion that can be practised in children. It is also well adapted for young and unmarried women, in whom the small size of the vagina would contra-indicate the vesico-vaginal method. In these latter cases the choice would, therefore, be between the lateral operation and the incision upwards of the urethra. " 5th. That there are scarcely any conceivable circiunstances which would render the high operation above the pubes justifiable. " 6th. That the ' vestibular' operation of LiSfranc possesses no merit of its own to compensate for its manifest disadvantages." G-. AUarton, treatise on modern median lithotomy. M. Civiale, statistics ('Gaz. d. H6p.,' 1863, p. 42). C. F. Hecker, on encysted stones ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iii; ' Gurlt's Eeport,' p. 438). M. Giraldes on stone in children (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 465). M. Dolbeau, case of very large stone (ib., 1863, p. 403). L. Bauer, on the recto-vesical operation (-Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iii, 158). M. Civiale, lectures on lithotrity ('Gaz. d. H6p.,' 1863, p. 153, &c.). VLKSTD AKD rOOT. On disease of tie astragalo-calcaneal joint, produced by injury, by E. W. Coe (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i, 62). '• From my observation, during the last ten years, of the diseases of the tarsus, more especially of those following upon slight blows or sprains, I may safely assert that the astragalo-calcaneal joint is more frequently affected than either of the other tarsal joints ;'that, from the functions and anatomical charac- ter of the astragalo-calcaneal articulation, the bones entering mto its composition very frequently and early participate in its diseases ; that.319 DISEASE OF THE ASTEAGALO-CALCANEAL JOINT. from its proximity to the ankle-joint, the latter articulation is generally looked upon as the seat of the mischief, which is really situated in the astragalo-calcaneal joint; that the signs of the beginning of mischief in the astragalo-calcaneal joint are very easy to be appreciated; that a careful attention to the history of the cases I shall relate, and the results of the treatment had recourse to, point out what course should be adopted in their management." ^ "John Bilby, ret. ,3a, collier, was admitted into Eaton Ward ot Bristol General Hospital, February 24th, 1859. History.—Re sprained his left foot about three years since by slipping oft" a metal rail underground. He worked up to seventeen weeks 'since. He had not any treatment for his foot until November 5th, 1858, when he went into the infirmary, which he left in seven weeks, on account of his wife's illness, his foot being then worse. Fresent appearance.—He was thin and pale; the left ankle was swollen. The swelling was not in the ankle-joint, but in a line corre- sponding to the astragalo-calcaneal articulation; it projected on eacb side below the corresponding malleoli, also posteriorly above the pro- jecting part of the calcaneum, thrusting out the tendo-achillis. On "grasping the calcaneum and attempting to move it on the astragalus, a grating was felt, as if the bones were rough; there was sufficient motion to give the idea of weakening, if not entire destruction, of the interosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament. He could move his ankle- joint without pain, but he felt pain when he put his foot to the ground. The pain complained of was exactly in the situation of the astragalo- calcaneal joint. " March 2nd, 1859.—I made an incision, beginning a little below and in front of the external malleolus, carried it under the external malleolus at the distance of an inch, and brought it up to the inside of the tendo Achillis, an inch above the insertion of the latter. A depot of pus, in the neighbourhood of the tendon, was opened ; a probe could be passed deep into the astragalo-calcaneal joint, and rough bone felt. I dissected on, and exposed the joint, and found it clearly diseased, and determined, if possible, to remove the articular surface of the os calcis. I made a second incision, an inch and a half in length, across the dorsum of the foot, which fell on the anterior extremity of the first, so as to enable me to divide any fibres of the interosseous ligament that might be remaining. I dissected up the side flap for a short distance, and opened into the articulation without injuring the peroneal tendons. I found the articular surface, especially of the calcis, roughened, and a number of white, soft granulations between the bones ; these were seen especially in front. I succeeded, partly with Hey's saw, and partly with the chisel and gouge, in removing the articular surface of the calcis, and eventually obtained a moderately smooth surface. The bones were drawn into position by the tendons, the flap was fastened down by sutures, and the limb laid upon its outer side. " Por some time the case promised fairly, indeed, I think, might eveutually have recovered, but the man became impatient, as his wife and child depended solely on himself, and he begged to have his foot removed, to which, much to my annoyance, I was obliged to accede.320 IIKPOJIT OiV SOllfiERY. I i-cmovecl his foot at the ankle-joint; he quickly made a good re- covery. " Wlien this man came under treatment I had determined that an- cliylosis of the joint was the termination to be sought for in tliis disease, when the mischief had advanced to suppuration ; and that, in the ma- jority of oases, this result was hindered or prevented by the dilGculties in the way of the escape of tlie products of inllammation, and of the dvhris of the brolcen-dowu tissues. I thought that, if I gave free exit to those products, and, in addition, a new surface to the bones, I miglit possibly succeed in bringing about tliis desirable result. In the present instance I now believe that too much was attempted; it would have been better merely to have made free openings into the articulation, for the escape of morbid products, leaving to nature the preparation of the bony surfaces, especially as they were smoothed with so much difSculty." In one case the author removed both the astragalus and the os calcis ; and though the patient was a long time in recovering, she ultimately did get well, with a useful and shapely foot. " I received a letter of thanks from her last November, telling me how well able she was to perform her houseliold duties. Before preparing this communication a friend kindly saw her for me, and reported very favourably of her con- dition. This is only the second recorded case in which both these bones have been removed." " Treatment.—" i. Whilst the joint (and by the term joint is meant, not only the two synovial sacs between the bones, but also t!;e inter- osseous ligament) is simply irritated or inflamed, compel perfect rest through a long period of time (say months), and the occasional applica- tion of leeches or warm soothing applications; and when the recovery is sufficiently advanced to allow the patient to leave the bed, insist upou the foot being relieved from the weight of the body for many weeks or months, as by the use of a wooden leg, or of crutches. This plan is to be used in every case. " 2. When there is evidence of the presence of pus in the articula- tion, without any external opening, or when an external opening exists leading down to the joint or bai'e bone, but not aftording a free exit to the discharge, then open the joint by as free incisions as possible, in hope that, by relieving the parts from all irritation, they may recover. " 3. When the disease has made still fnrtlier progres.s, and the bones become so involved as to render it unlikely that the last plan would answer, or after the failure of that treatment, then I would very strongly advocate the propriety of removing the os calcis ; thus giving the under surface of the astragalus the best chance of recovery, and preserving to the patient a most useful and shapely foot. " 4. When both bones are apparently immediately aftected, I would advise their removal, as also that of the projecting malleoli of the ankle- joint. So fiir as regards the disease, this proceeding is as completely eliminative as amputation at the ankle-joint itself, but has the great ad- vantage of preserving a very useful, and assuredly a more sightly, extremity than the stump of an amputation. "5. When, from the long-continuance of the disease, many of the321 ETIOLOGY OF CLUB-FOOT. neighbouriiicr joints auci bones are affected, as the ankle-joant a,nd bones and joints of tlie tarsus; or when, superadded to the original disease, there is a well-marked constitutional or scrofulous diathesis, ot such a nature or to such an extent as to render it probable that the restora- tive powers of the patient would not be able to bring to a favorable result the designs of the surgeon in some of the foregoing plans ;^ then, and not till then, do I think amputation of the ankle is justified." B. Volkmann, on the etiology of chih-foot ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, pp. 329, 341). If we allow the name, club-foot, to have its widest signification, we must distinguish, with reference to the etiology, two principal varieties, the ])rimari/ or idiopathic, and tbe secondary or symptomatic. Primary or idiopathic club-foot is always a varus or equino-varus. It must be considered to depend simply on an arrest of development, and is therefore always congenital. Secondary club-foot may be acquired at any period of life, either before or after birth. It is the result of most different changes in the muscles, nerves, and even bones ; so that it is by no means adequately represented by the forms varus, valgus, equinus, and calcaneus. Dieffenbach wrote, in 1841, that infants are always born with "club- foot of the first degree," the soles of the feet being turned towards one another; the correctness of this statement has been recently recog- nised by Henke. The etiological conclusions which may be drawn from this fact have been stated by the friend of Johannes MUller, the Dane Eschricht. He showed ('Deutsche Klinik,' 1851, No. 44; on foetal curvatures) that the form of the fcetus underwent certain changes during the process of normal develoj)ment in the uterus, changes which consisted of unrolling and twisting of entire limbs and portions of the skeleton. The foetus blooms, if it be allowed to say so, like a bud. It unfolds itself; the head, which had been bent till it touched the breast, —not, indeed, because of flexion in the joints of the cervical vertebrse, but because of the very shape of the cranial bones,—becomes more erect. The caudal part of the vertebral column which had been also extremely curved towards the abdomen, straightens in the direction of the longi- tudinal axis of the body, not because of the action of the muscles and joints, but because the bones and soft parts grow straight. Moreover, the lower extremities are peculiarly twisted. It must be here noted, that at the time when they are applied to the surface of the abdomen, they are also twisted in such a mode that their popliteal side, and not their anterior surface, touches the abdomen of the embryo ; and that tlie little, not the great toes, are in contact, a reason why in abnormal union of the pelvic extremities (Sirens) the little toes are always found to be adherent, and why the double limb has at each outer edge a great toe. But tliis unrolling of a lower extremity is not effected by motions of the joints and muscular action; it is the result of a twist in the whole thickness of the limb, and especially of " growth of the bones in a spiral direction." Sych a twist or unfolding arrives at its full completion more slowly in the lower than in the upper part of the extremity; indeed it is not completed at birth, as has been already mentioned. Should it not 2132a repout on suugeby. take place at nil, or not attain a proper amount at the same part, the foot will be fixed in its false position of varus or equino-varus. Our experience has shown us that almost all cases of congenital club-foot very exactly agree with this embryonal theory, wliicli was first scientifically founded by Eschricht. It will be found on anatomical examination of the newly-born infant aflfected with talipes varus, that every part is adapted to the abnormal form. The skin, muscles', and ligaments are all somewhat too short on the concave side ; even the cartilaginous and osseous surfaces are such as to suit the false position, the form and direction of the articular surfaces being slightly, but still very distinctly, abnormal. The club-foot is idiopathic; neither the nerves, muscles, ligaments, nor bones are primarily affected, nor can it be said that the deformity takes its origin from any one of them. It is true that some authors, especially Scarpa, have urged the secondary characters of the contractions, particularly of those of the muscles and tendons ; but their assertions, though essentially correct, were not sup- ported by sufficiently cogent reasons. So long as it was supposed that a club-foot had been originally of normal form in the uterus, and had only become contracted at 'some later period, medical men naturally recurred to the muscles, or, going further back, to the nerves, the brain, and the spinal cord, for an explanation why the abnormal posi- tion occurred. Thus the supposition generally admitted was that of the primary or antagonistic contraction, of the nervous or, at all events, myopathic nature of club-foot; in short, its origin was generally ex- plained by a meclianical theory. The success of subcutaneous tenotomy appeared to confirm this view, although the supposed nervous origin of congenital club-foot could not explain why its form is so constantly the same, the number of cases of congenital valgus, of pure equinus, calcaneus, being infinitely small in comparison with that of the common equino-varus. According to that supposition, the same nerves must have been always affected. This constancy of form is unfavorable also to the supposed proof drawn from the fact, that malformations of the brain and spinal cord fre- quently accompany club-foot. How could spina bifida, situated as it is in different parts of the spine, and accompanied by most varied con- ditions of the spinal cord, by hydrocephalus, by anencephalus, &c., almost invariably induce irritation of the same nerves ? Just the opposite is the case in the forms of club-foot acquired at a later period of life; especially when the nervous nature of the afi'ection is most certain, is there an extraordinary variety in the form, sometimes pure equinus, sometimes varus, sometimes valgus, &c. It is of importance to notice that there are no signs of retrograde changes in the muscles or nerves in the ordinary cases of congenital club-foot; the most minute dissection only gives a negative result, a statement which has been often made, and one which the author can confirm from his own researches. There is, therefore, a very remark- able difference between the primary and symptomatic forms ; in the latter, and particularly where the affection is primarily nervous, retro- grade parenchymatous changes very soon appear in the muscular tissue. In the primary form no such alterations occur till a late period, when323 TREATMJiNT OF CLTJB-POOT. the deformity has been increased by walking and standing, and the foot has become fixed; some muscles, and specially those placed on the convex side of the curvature, are then little or not at all employed, and accordingly suffer in their nutribion. It may now be readily understood how tenotomy acts, and in what cases it is likely to be useful. In primary club-foot, it overcomes only that fraction of the resistance which a single tissue, the muscles, pre- sent to the reduction of the foot to its normal position. The contrac- tion of the skin, subcutaneous cellular tissue, ligaments, and bones must be overcome by orthopedic after-treatment. In the symptomatic form the condition is usually much the same; for though the affection may have arisen from a single tissue, as the muscles, yet all the other surrounding parts adapt themselves to the false position with such rapidity as to oppose much resistance. The importance of tenotomy really consists in this, that it attacks the parts in which the danger of operative interference is the least, and of which the resistance is usually the greatest. Hence it results that it should only be employed when the muscles really present considerable resistance. The operation is not indicated when the foot can be placed in a proper position, either with or without the aid of chloroform. For we must not forget that the operation directly weakens certain muscles, and that it may have other injurious effects. In the treatment of club-foot, tenotomy is only the auxiliary of orthopasdic treatment. Secondary club-foot is usually acquired during extra-uterine life ; of course it may occur as a congenital affection. Most of the causes which produce it at later periods may, in exceptional cases, occur in the foetus. It may depend on some disease of the nervous system, of the brain and spinal cord, or much more rarely of its peripheral por- tions ; the disease may be of a spasmodic, or, as is very much more often the case, of a paralytic nature. Acquired varus is almost without exception the result of paralysis, and is most commonly seen in cases of infantile paralysis, more rarely in Pott's disease of the spine. In other cases, secondary talipes may be caused by the foot being kept in an unnatural position for a long time. Such is the pes equinus, which is developed in cases where only the toes and the Leads of the meta- tarsal bones touch the ground, owing to one limb being much shorter than the other. The same condition has often been induced in a similar manner by large painful ulcers of the back of the calf. The formation of cicatrices, inflammation of the ankle-joint, and inflammatory retrac- tions of the fascia, are other causes. The frequency with which a primary affection of the muscles acts as a cause cannot yet be decided. In very rare cases, talipes is produced by the abnormal form, or entire absence of some bone. The author terminates with the details of some cases, which appear to prove that pressure by the uterus may be a cause of talipes. Treatment of club-foot.—Mt. Bryant ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i> 415) ^^s. carried out the following practice extensively at Guy's Hospital with great success. " The rule which I apply to these cases is as follows:—That if the foot can be restored with but little forceIIEPOHT ON SUllGEUY. to its uoi'iiml position, a cure will, in nil probability, be secured by simple means, that is, by extension, and tliafc the operation of tenotomy may be set aside; but if much force is called for to bring about this result, the division of the contracted tendons should be performed. " The mechanical means which I have been in the habit of employiuf^ arc very simple, a good firm linen strapping being all that is required by way of material. The metliod of its application is alsQ very simple, and may be thus described. If the case be one of varus or equino- varus, a piece of strapping about one inch wide, broad enough to cover the body of the foot, and about nine inches long, should be selected, and fastened by at least one circular turn round the foot, leaving the end on its outer sidai; the foot is then to be brought to the requii-ed position, and fixed there by forcibly bringing the extremity of the plaster to the upper and outer part of the leg, using it as a side splint. This upper extremity is then to be firmly held in position by an assistant, whilst a second piece is applied round the foot and ankle as a figure of 8. By this turn the external upright plaster-splint is firmly compressed towards the leg, and thus drawing upon the ankle, turns the deformed foot firmly outwards, and fixes it in the required position. A third or circxilar piece may then be applied roimd the leg to fix the upper portion of the vertical plaster-splint, and the thing will be complete. " If these strappings be well applied, it will not be necessary to readjust them for at least three or four days; by such means a large proportion of cases will be readily and permanently cured. " The principle of its application rests in the extending force which is employed by the external or vertical portion ; the second or figure- of-8 binding this vertical splint firmly to the leg, increasing its extend- ing force and making it permanent." Sand.—M. Delore, on congenital union of the fingers ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 508). Mr. Smith, on injuries ('Lond. Med. Kev.,'iii, 11). Dis- cussion on an afiection produced by post-mortem examinations (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 451). MM. Mirault and Verneuil, curious afiection ('Q-az. Hebd.,' 1863, pp. 113, 131). M. Verneuil, plastic operation for a burn (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, pp. 542, 548). Mr. Annan- dale, on excision of the finger-joints (' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' viii, 253). Mot.—Case of onychia maligna cured by the local use of arsenic ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 7). Mr. Jordan, on fibro-cellular annulus of the ankle (ib., 1862. i, 208). A. Hirsch, on the Madura- foot ('Arch. f. path. Auat.,' vol. xxvii, p. 98). G. Bidie, notes on mor- bus pedis entophyticus (' Madras Quart. Journ.,' iv, 222). A. Collas, on the endemic degeneration of the bones of the foot^ (Eev. in ib., p. 331). H. V. Carter, the fungus disease of India (Eev. in ib., p. 150), and on mycetoma ('Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev.,' vol. 32, p. 198). Dr. Marston, the fungus foot of India ('Arch, of Med.,' iv, 48). Mr. Hilton, disease of the bones ('Lancet,' 1862, ii, 670). "W. Henke, contraction of the metatarsus (' Zeitschr. f. rat. Med.,' 3rd ser., vol. xvii, p. 188). Dr. Eussell, on flat-foot ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, ii, 105). MM. Duchenne and Bouvier, on fiat-foot ('M^m. de la Soc. de Chir.,' v, 533, 559). M. Foucher, sub-ungual exostosis (' Gaz.325 STIFP JOINTS. d.Hop.,' 1863, p. 497). A. SfcafFhorst, on exarticulatiou of tlie foot by Malgaigae'3 metliod (Gotting. Deuerlicb). Dr. Heyfelder, on resec- tion of the astragalus (' Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. xxxiii, p. 67). Dr. ]Jradford, excision of the os calcis, cuboid, &c. ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' JS62, i, 38, loi, 171). M. Vanzetti, on excision of os calcis ('G-az. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 52.3), and cases (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 357). Extremities.—K Billroth, extraction of piece of v?ood from the fore- arm (' Schweiz. Zeitschr.,' i, 54). C. Hilter, anatomical studies on the joints of the extremities ('Arch. f. Path. Anat.,' xxv, 572 ; xxvi, 484). M. ibebout, on artificial substitutes in congenital affections (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, pp. 110, 162). Dr. Martini, on- artiiiciallimbs ('Schmidt's ' Jahrb.,' vol. 115, p. loj;). OETHOP-^DIC STTRGEET. M. Malqaignc on stiff joints (lectures on ortliopsedic surgery). The following remarks deserve attention, for cases in which the joints become more or less stiff are very common, and too often neglected by the medical attendant. False anchylosis frequently results from a limb being long retained in one position, sometimes from arthritis, sometimes from the after-efl^cts of fractures or dislocations ; for example, a man has the lower end of the radius fractured, a bandage is applied, and the fingers are kept motionless and extended; forty days later, the surgeon uncovers the limb, the fractured ends are united, but the patient is much more helpless than directly after the accident, for all his finger- joints are stiff". The patient, as the rule, loudly complains ; to this the surgeon replies that all will go well in time. The end not imfrequently is, that the patient becomes permanently disabled, for the natural mobility of a joint can only be restored by motions performed at a proper time and to a proper extent. Time alone renders the case in- curable. Other errors, which are too often committed by surgeons, are to direct the patient to move the limb himself, or to recommend certain baths, the treatment in the former case being insufficient, in the latter useless. Diagnosis of false from true anchylosis.—Many surgeons, and in par- ticular Bonnet, have declared this diagnosis impossible ; Malgaigne has, however, maintained for twenty years the contrary, and taught his pupils the differential diagnosis of the two forms. If, for example, in a case of osseous anchylosis of the bones of the elbow, the surgeon attempts to forcibly extend the forearm on the arm, at the same time pressing, with his knee against the projecting angle, pain will only be felt at the points directly compressed. If, on the other hand, the union be fibrous, the same extension will cause pain at points which are not at all com- pressed, but which are being forcibly stretched; the pain, besides, is most acute. Prognosis.—It is absolutely necessary for success that the surgeon liimself should carry out the treatment, and that the patient should be willing to bear much pain and trouble. " An English lady was attacked \ a few months ago, by slight arthritis of the wrist. She was declared to be cured at the end of fifteen days; although she could not move the joint, her medical man affirmed every week that it would get all rii^ht •REPOUT ON SUUGERY. 826 at length, at the end of the fifth month, she became anxious, and I was consulted. It is now two and a half months since I began the treat- ment ; much has been gained, and I believe I shall be successful, but the case is not yet cured." She ultimately recovered after six months' treatment. Indications of treatment.—Our object is, not only to restore the natural mobility, but also, where that is impracticable, to restore the form alone by giving the limb a better direction; the treatment must vary accordingly. One of the greatest difficulties in practice is to de- termine when to commence exercising the joint. " There has been arthritis; the inflammation has simply passed through the acute stage, and after a month or six weeks apj^ears to be no longer present, or the patient being of unhealthy constitution, or the case badly treated, it has first become chronic, and then ultimately disappeared. How can we determine that the disease has really retrograded to that degree that we can commence the restoration of motion, without running danger of re-exciting violent inflammation, of which suppuration and death may be the necessary results; and yet time presses. If interference may induce such serious consequences, inaction still more certainly con- demns the patient to a condition in which even the most ordinary actions may be difiicult or impossible. In 1838, I filled the office of M. Baffos, at the hospital for sick children. There were in the wards many cases of hip disease, among others a child of seven years, in other respects in good health, and in whom I excited no pain whatever by pressing freely on diflferent parts of the hip; yet there was extreme pain as soon as I tried any movement. "Was this a case of stifi" joint, or did the inflammation still continue ? Both cause, as you know, atrocious pain under such circumstances, yet I required a diagnosis. I hunted-up authors, I found no information. I applied to the most de- servedly renowned surgeons, my question appeared to surprise them; none of them had thought of this difficulty. Left to myself, I pressed on various parts of the joint, and most carefully on those said to be nearest to the capsular ligament. Many theorists have asserted that, by pressing in front in the hollow of the groin, you are almost on the head of the femur. This region was insensible in my case. Others, that by pressing the trochanter major against the ilium, you pressed the articular surfaces against one another, and that this would, in case in- flammation was present, excite pain. I tried it, there was no pain. I then commenced vcith moderate movements. After two or three days it became very difficult to eff"ect them ; I continued, however, but soon it became necessary to stop altogether. The articular inflammation had recommenced; it became intense, the joint suppurated, dislocation ensued, and the little patient died. Convinced that I had not known the proper method of examining the joint, I set myself to study, and have by perseverance acquired a better knowledge of how to test the condition of the parts. For hip disease, in particular, there is one point which you must remember ; pressure over an extended surface would teach you nothing; but press forcibly, with the fingers curved like a hook, behind the trochanter, and if there remains any inflamma- tion, you will be certain to excite pain. The same is the case with theTREATMENT OF STIFF JOINTS. 327 elbow ; at tlie level of the head of the radius the synovial membrane is almost immediately under the integument; press forcibly on this point with your thumb ; if you do not excite pain, you may be satisfied there is no longer any arthritis. In the shoulder you will sometimes, though rarely, excite some pain by pressing on the posterior or outer side ; but it is in front that you must seek it, by pressing forcibly on the head of the humerus. Such examinations vrill enable you not only to distin- guish traces of arthritis just before it disappears, but also to diagnose inflammation of the joint when just commencing. So long as you find pain at these joints you should take as your rule, that the limb must be kept motionless; any motion, far from being useful, would excite inflammation. "So far we have considered only the fibro-seroua portions of a joint; but when an articulation has been for some time diseased—for example, after a couple of months in arthritis of the shoulder—the muscles, and especially the deltoid, become paralysed and extremely painful near their upper and lower attachments. Tou will only overcome this diffi- culty by examining the points just mentioned. If pressure on them is not painful, employ regular movements ; it is the best way of relieving the pains, and restoring the contractility of the muscles. Thus you will not now fear to act, armed as you are with means which show the time for movement; you will not fear even when the part is still swoUen, for the swelling also often yields only to exercise." It is in some such cases of simple stifi"ness that bone-setters occasionally gain brilliant results from their manipulations. Cases in tvhich no attempt should he made to restore mohility.—It may be laid down as a practical aphorism that in the ginglymoid articulations, especially the elbow, it is impossible to restore motion after a lapse of two months. In other joints, as the shoulder, the surgeon may act with some probability of success, after three or four months ; for the latter articulation has a loose capsular ligament, whilst the elbow, like other ginglymi, is tightly held by the lateral ligaments, which become thickened and contracted, so as to oiFer extraordinary resistance. Treatment hj the hand.—In slight or recent cases this method is sufficient. "Tou may have seen this morning a young man with frac- tured clavicle, who has hud the limb immobilised for thirty days ; the bandages were taken oif; the elbow was stiff", so that it could not be moved. It was important to overcome this complication. I seized his arm with one hand, and with the other I pressed on the forearm, but the biceps presented great resistance. I then had the shoulder' and arm fixed by assistants, and by pressing forcibly on the forearm I suc- ceeded in extending it, and then at once caused"the joint to perform all its natural functions. The violent pain felt by the patient disappeared as soon as the limb was extended. In such a case all that is necessary is to repeat once or twice the difficult movements ; there is no occasion for the use of any machine." On the next day there was slight trau- matic arthritis, with acute pain at the outer side of the joint, and slight crepitus in the bursa over the olecranon; twenty-four hours later it had again disappeared. It is more especially in unhealthy subjects, scrofulous children, or328 IIKVOUT ON SURGERY. delicate females, tbab there is a clanger of artliritis ensuing. Not that this is a reason for refusing tliem tlie benefits to be derived from treat- ment, only the surgeon must not endeavour to gain too much at once; he must reiterate the exercises, so as gradually to restore perfect mobility. He must act iu the same cautious manner in cases of some standing. He need not fear the delay; he may let, when necessary, five or fcix days pass between tlie sittings, without running danger of losing what he has gained. When the surgeon's object is simply to place the limb in a better position, machines are generally unnecessary. As in such cases it is only necessary to flex or extend, the best plan is to do all at once. The patient is placed under chloroform; then the upper segment of the limb being firmly fixed, the surgeon seizes the inferior, and endeavours, by a single, sudden eifort, to bring tlie part ijito the desired position. The inflammation, which inevitably follows, is usually of no great im- portance ; to check it the limb should be immobilised. It may be noted, as an important practical remark, that the extension or flexion must be carried to a somewhat greater extent than what is intended to be the final position ; thus if a limb is to be ultimately flexed at a right angle, force the position to an acute angle, for a certain amount of secondary- extension is sure to occur. Treatment hy machines.—The utility of machines does not consist in their making extensive movements, but in their efi'ecting certain move- ments exactly to the degree intended. Such graduated changes can only te obtained by means of them ; the hand flexes or extends a joint by sudden, intermittent efforts, and thus to obtain a flexion of two degrees produces one of four; it is only by mechanical apparatus that the force employed can be calculated and regulated. The fundamental rule in the use of machines is never to yo too far, and never to go hade. It must always be remembered that acute arthritis will ensue if force is em- ployed beyond a certain degree. Bonnet's insj;ruments, iu which the force employed cannot be accurately estimated, are accordingly con- sidered by Malgaigne quite useless. The changes at fijst produced in the position of the limb must be slight; it is only at a later pei'iod, when the surgeon has learned the degree of reaction of the parts, that he may .dare to effect more extensive motions. The treatment is not concluded when the limb has been flexed or extended by the use of an instrument; the same motions must then be repeated with the hand for some time, before the patient will recoyer sufficient power to effect them himself Thiis, after flexing the forearm on the arm to an angle of 45° by means of the machine, it will take some time before the same degree can be reached by the use of the hand alone, without the employment of excessive force, and a little longer before the patient can voluntarily perform the same motion. We may take, as an example of this treatment, a case in which the elbow has been affected with arthritis, and where for thirty days it has continued inflamed and motionless. Numerous careful and reiterated efforts will be required to restore mobility in such a case; for not only is the resistance great owing to plastic exudation and newly-formed fibrous tissue, but the surgeon cannot, without great risk, exceed theTREAT3IENT OF STIFF FINGERS. 329 point already mentioned in exercising the joint; he must perform, indeed, only such graduated, well calculated, slow, yet powerful motions, as can be arrested or increased at will. For such a case treatment by a carefully constructed machine is indispensable. Summarif.—Where our object is to restore the normal mobility of a joint, we may move the segments of the limb to the fullest extent, and cure the patient in a single sitting, for which purpose machines are rarely required; or we may execute the motions slowly, gradually, and certainly, for which purpose machines are indispensable, as it is only by their use that we can combine great force and extreme precision to- gether. After a month or six weeks, in cases of stift" knee or shoulder from immobility, we may employ the former method ; at a later period, or where there has been arthritis, we must depend on the latter; lastly, where there is still pain at the points already mentioned, we must not commence till it has disappeared, and the best way to hasten this result is to immobilise the limb in a good position. Extensive movements produce, in favorable cases, brilliant eftects. Let it be a precept in the radical cure to carry the movements to their xitmost limit. Malgaigue treated a friend for acute hydarthrosis; he had certain movements per- formed, the joint recovered its functions, and he considered him cured ; nevertheless the patient continued to limp, and consulted the author again in a few days; the knee was healthy, flexion extensive, though not complete. Malgaigne carried it to its greatest degree, till the heel touched the buttock ; the limping instantly disappeared, and the patient was perfectly and permanently cured. Aixplication to each joint.—Malgaigne explains tbe application of these principles separately to each joint. In stilF fingers, treatment by special machines is rarely required. The surgeon must first attend to the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation; he takes the finger in his hand, and exercises sufficient traction to elongate the ligaments, and at the same time cause flexion. " To what extent should the flexion be carried ? It is evident that the surgeon has sufficient force to overcome all resist- ance at once, but it is equally certain that arthritis Avould be the result. The pain excited by even moderate flexion is atrocious, much more severe than that of an amputation; yet I do not employ chloroform, for I am guided by the degree of pain, and the patient prevents my passing beyond the limits of really curative motion. This fact has not been published, and is known to very few ; yet you may talte it as an absolute rule. I seize then the diseased joint, and bend it till the pain can no longer be endured. Ton may rest easy that no patient will let you go too far, for even the most courageous man yields to the agony. Ton stop for a few minutes; you ask whether the pain persists, whether it increases or diminishes. If the latter, you may flex a little more, but you stop as soon as the patient again exclaims ; should then the pain last for more than a minute, you should conclude the sitting." Shoiild the pain persist or increase, you must keep the hand at rest till it has ceased. You may then again flex the finger, following the same plan and thus you may gradually progress, step by step, to complete flexion! After a time the patient himself should occasionally repeat the same motions. Eecovery is often promoted by the retention of the finger in380 EBPORT ON SURGEUY. a flexed position, for an hour or two at a time, hj means of a ribbon or bandage. The treatmeat must be carried out m a similar manner in the other joints. In respect to the hip, however, a good position is all that can generally be achieved. Only in rare cases can mobility be restored. The careful performance of the natural movements should be com- menced five or six days after the reduction of a dislocated elbow, and twelve days after that of the shoulder. Similar treatment must be em- ployed after fractures into the joints, as after fractures with dislocation of the elbow, or comminuted fractures of the head of the humerus. Considerable mobility may sometimes be gained in cases of unreduced luxation. Malgaigne relates the case of a child of two years, who had a dislocation of the upper end of the radius forwards. Reduction could not be effected. He set the mother to work; in two months flexion was complete. In an adult affected with the same dislocation, flexion, though not perfect, became sufficient to allow the patient to shave himself. He has also seen a case of unreduced luxation of the elbow, in which the patient could almost perfectly extend the forearm, and flex it enough to touch his nose with his hand, when the head was slightly inclined. On certain grave evils attending tenotomy, and on a neio metliod oj cm'ing deformities of the foot, by K. Barwell f Med.-Chir. Trans.,' vol. xlv, p. 25).—The author is of opinion that the subcutaneous division of tendons and muscles frequently produces lameness, less apparent, perhaps, but certainly more incurable, than the original disease. " In the purely mechanical treatment of distorted foot from excessive muscular contraction, which the use of the tenotome has superseded, it was found that the mere lateral twist could be overcome without any great difficulty, while the most obstinate distortion was the exaggerated extension of the part. The pes equinus could hardly ever be cured; equina varus was, ccsteris paribus, obstinate in a /iirect proportion to the amount of the extension. That is to say, the difficulty of overcoming a contracted muscle is, other things being equal, in a direct ratio with its size and strength. " At the present time the treatment of pes equinus is, above all others, simple in its performance and happy in its results. The restoration of all those other deformities in which extension mingles is also greatly assisted by annihilating that over-action of the gastrocnemius, to which much of the inward twist of the foot in equtno-varus is attributable. But this last-named deformity is now treated by division of four tendons, at least—the tibialis posticus,'the flexor longus digitorum, the tibialis anti- cus,and the tendoAchillis,and frequently also of the plantar fascia. A very similar treatment ia inflicted on valgus. ' The peronei tendons are to be divided, or together with them those of the extensor longus digitorum and the tendo Achillis, and also those of the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicis.' Can we be surprised that after this' there is difficulty in continuing efficient support to the arch of the foot; and even after the arch has been restored, support is required during many months' ? " But, besides the cases which arise from excessive action in one set of muscles, there ar^ others whicl^ have their origin in partial or tot^l831 EVIIi EFFECTS OF TENOTOMY. paralysis or in debility of certain other muscles. If, in such instances, it be endeavoured to restore the balance of the limb by dividing the tendons of the still active muscles, the consequences are very disastrous; but even orthopasdists do not often now, I believe, tenotomize such, cases, although no more efficient apparatus than the old jointed iron and Scarpa's shoe appears to be employed in that special practice. " Now, the difficulty of overcoming a contracted muscle being, as I have already remarked, in exact proportion to its strength, it follows that it is most difficult, or indeed, all but impossible, to overcome the sural muscles, those attached to the tendo Achillis. Hence division of that tendon is a most valuable, an all but indispensable, resource in all deformities of the equinal or extended varieties ; and it happens that the tendon is so situated and surrounded, that not only is its division, but also its reunion, extremely easy. So remarkably is this the case, that it requires a diligent application of ignorant management to produce a non-union of this tendon. But are the other tendons, whose section is so constantly performed, thus easily reunited ? This question occurred to me rather more than four years ago, when I was struck by observing on a patient, who had long before been freely tenotomized secundum artem, that several movements of his foot were very feeble and uncertain. Since then it has fallen to my lot to see several feet in the same circumstances, both as to apparent cause and effect, but the full solution of the question only presented itself about a year ago." After referring to some experiments on dogs by M. Bouvier, the author continues:—"It may easily be averred that experiments on animals cannot be relied on as proof of what happens in man. Post- mortem examinations after tenotomy, moreover, are not common; but Mr. William Adams has been able to gather together, in his book on the ' Eeparative Process in Human Tendon,' the results of thirteen autopsies. In this number there are six in which the tendo Achillis only was divided, a tendon which should never do badly. There are, therefore, seven cases in which other tendons were also divided and in every one of them one or more of the severed tendons is either not united at aU or is adherent to the bone or surrounding parts, so as to abolish the action of the muscle. In no one instance, in which the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, one or both, were divided, did they so unite as to be of the slightest use, Avhile the tibialis anticus is more exposed to extinction by non-union than by false union. Now, these are the only accounts of examination in the human body of the actual effects of tenotomy upon tendons other than the tendo Achillis. The results are confirmed by experiment. What conclusion is to be drawn from them but that such muscles as the tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, and probably also the peronei (which are similarly placed behind the leg-bones), might as well be struck with sudden and irremediable paralysis as be subjected to the knife of the tenotomist; and that, moreover, other tendons—those in front of the foot—are only a little better off in this particular? Under such circumstances the phrase made use of at the commencement of this paper—that tenotomy fre- quently produces lameness, less apparent, perhaps, but certainly more incurable, than the original disease—is, I hold, fully justified." '033 HEPOUT on SUllGKRY. To the question wliefcliei- most cases—iu fact, uoiirly every case—of talipes canuot be reduced witliout division of the tendons in question, Mv. Barwell replies, " We may not have quite sufficient data at present to determine the exact proportion, but at all events we have sufficient to show that, under the circumstances which I have endeavoured to portray, the tendons in question should never be divided, except in tlie very rare cases in which no other means Avill succeed in reducing the deformity. Therefore we must return to mechanical treatment for the elongation of those muscles whose size renders this possible, and which have tendons so placed as to cause their section to be destructive of muscular action. _ " All the best forms of instrument hitherto invented act on the prin- ciple of confining the foot in a shoe or sabot, which, by springs of various shapes and materials, bend or twist the Umb in a direction con- trary to that of the defoi"mity. There are several grave objections to the application of force through the medium of a shoe—the impediment thrown in the way of walking, the pressure on the limb, &c. But the greatest inherent and insurmountable defect is that the antagonistic force is not applied in the delicate and discriminative manner emplo)'^ed by nature ; the foot is treated as a clumsy whole, to be twisted inward or outward upon a stiff turnboard, to which it is bound for the purpose." Mr. Barwell explains his plan of treatment in the following manner:— " In fact, however, when any of these constituents change their position, and thus the whole foot its form, the only rational indication is to use some means of supplying the overbalanced muscular power in its proper place and direction, until the organs themselves regain their due force; and this latter can only take place when the foot is alloiced its liherti/. I believe myself to have fulfilled these indications by the following method, which, though simple in itself, is difficult to describe. The only necessary apparatus is strapping-plaster ;* a piede of tinned iron about an inch broad, as long as the patient's leg, and provided at its upper end with a wire loop; a few india-rubber springs of one-quarter-inch cord of various lengths, and furnished at each end Avith a steel hook ; and some eyelets, with the pincers for fixing them. " First, a piece of the plaster is cut into a trapezoid form, in such wise that its broadest part, adherent to the sole and side of the foot, shall follow with considerable accuracy the course and insertion of the weakened tendon. The narrower part shall lie on the side of the foot, a little before or behind one or other of the malleoli, as the case may be ; it is not to adhere, but to be folded on itself with the sticky sides together, and through the double thickness an eyelet must be inserted. The foot must now be held by an assistant as nearly as possible in the normal position, and be evenly strapped from the toes backward, leaving out the ends into which the eyelets are driven. By these first-named pieces of strapping the insertion of the muscle or muscles is repre- sented. " We now turn to the leg. A piece of strapping rather broader than * Emplnstnun rosina-, spread on stout twilled calico.333 NEW METHOD OE CURING DEFOUMITIES. the tin, aud three times as loug, is made to adhere over the defective muscle, from its origin to just above the ankle-joint, the superabundant lougth hanging loose below. Over the plaster which covers the muscle is placed the piece of tin, roughly moulded to fit the surface, and padded at its lower end with a little cotton-wool. The additional length of strapping is next turned upward over the tin. The leg is then to be smoothly strapped, in continuation with the circular strapping on the foot, from the ankle to just beyond the other end of the tin, care being taken to leave the wire loop uncovered. There is still an additional length of longitudinal plaster, which, for security, may be brought down and made to adhere outside the circular pieces. Now, it will have been perceived that the arrangement of the longitudinal piece of strap- ping is as follows:—it first adheres to the skin of the leg, then forms a loop, sustaining the lower end of the tin; thence it runs up with its sticky side outwards and adherent to the inside of the surrounding strips; lastly, for more security, it turns down over the last circtdar piece, its inner side adhering to the outer surface of those strips. Thus we have at the upper part of the leg a fixed point, the wire eye supported through the medium of the tin by a loop of plaster, which takes its bearing in such a manner that no constriction of the limb can be pro- duced, whatever downward force be exerted upon the wire. Now, it is only necessary to choose an india-rubber spring of such a length as to produce the right amount of tension, and to fix one of its hooks in the wire loop, and the other in the eyelet which was let into the plaster on the foot. " By tension of this india-rubber we can assist any one muscle or muscles in their action on the foot, making them adapt themselves to a normal posture in an active condition. If we vdsh to supply two mus- cles, e.g. the tibialis posticus and anticus, two tins and two wire loops are as easily fixed as one. But a little difference must be observed in supplying the peroneus longus and brevis. These run so equally and closely on the leg that one wire loop suffices for both; but below the fibula they make a bend of a little more than a right angle, and we cau- uot, as is the case with other and less crooked tendons, produce the necessary change in the direction of the force by the trapezoid shape aud the adhesiveness of the strapping. That which represents these tendons must belaid on the outside of the foot, nearly as far forward as the root of the toes, and to its eyelet must be fixed a piece of catgut, which in passing \o the spring runs through a little metal block, thus constructed. An eyelet is nipped by the proper pliers as though for fixing it, but without fastening it to anything; this is to act as a pulley. It is tied, not too tightly, by a piece of wire to a hole at the lowest part of the front edge of the tin. Of course, the catgut running through this barren eyelet bends at an angle which can be made pre- cisely to imitate that of the tendon. In these cases the tin should be passed into a slit in a piece of the strapping going round the leg, so as resist the slight tendency forward. " A case of varus is to be treated by supplying force to the two peronei muscles; it is better to use a spring for each muscle, and the amount of traction should bo distributed between them, until the due334 UEPORT ON SUHGEUY. balance is obtained. On the other hand, valgus is treated by giving greater effect to the anterior and posterior tibials; in severe cases to both, iu milder cases to the former only. Two tins and two wire loops should be used, except in the case of infants, when one tin, broader above than below, and one broad loop, will suffice. The common and very inconvenient deformity called flat foot may be conquered in a week or two by supplying power to the tibialis anticus, and the treatment relieves the patieut oi pain so completely that one who limps to the surgeon will walk away upright and freely. Nothing has struck me with greater astonishment than to observe that tenotomists counsel the division of this tendon; for this muscle, above all others, is that which, by lifting the inner cuneiform and metatarsal bones from the ground, keeps up the arch of the foot, and aids in preventing the outward twist of valgus, which is always more or less present in flat-foot. One reads in books that this painful affection is produced by relaxation of the ligaments, although it is well known that the ligaments are merely secondary assistants to the muscles, and that their yielding is only an effect, and not a cause. Even the elongation of the plantar fascia is in these cases simply a sequence of muscular debility. " In equino-varus or equino-valgus, it may be necessary to div'ide the tendo Achillis, but only when the extension is severe and well marked; otherwise the treatment should be undertaken for the other tendons, as though no equinal deformity were present. " In treating an infant, very little force is required, certainly less than when n sabot is used, since it is applied in the normal direction. During the first few hours, it is well to apply less force than is intended to be used in the subsequent treatment. I have never found the amount of pressure influence the growth of the bones. If the child be old enough to walk, he should be encouraged to do so as soon as the treatment begins to have any effect on the posture of the limb ; since the weight of the body will then aid in the cute. This ia.further advisable for the following reasonsi When deformities are treated by irons and shoes, which confine the bones of the foot, the muscles remain inactive, and merely contract to their new position in a passive manner ; such distor- tions, when the limb is again used, are very apt to return. To combine exercise with the treatment above indicated increases the muscles ; they accustom themselves to activity in their new relations; when the apparatus is discontinued, the deformity has no tendency to return. Lastly, the faiUty posture must be somewhat reversed, and the patient encouraged to walk with the foot in its new position before the treat- ment is finally abandoned." Mr. Brodhurst, in describing the treatment of spinal curvature (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, 253), demonstrates the necessity of attending to the cause, and modifying the mechanical means accordingly. " The treatment of spinal curvature must vary as the cause which induced it varies. Unfortunately for orthopaedic surgery, it has been too much the habit to treat every form of spinal curvature, whether induced by immoderate use of an upper extremity or by deficient length of a lower extremity or by thoracic disease or other cause, after the same fashion ;835 OUTHOPiEDIC STJEGEEY. to ignore the cause, in fact; and to treat the affection entirely irre- spective of cause and position, so that—whether the curve be primary or consecutive—whether it depend on affection of a lower extremity, or on the use of an upper extremity, the dorsal curve is treated without reference to cause or consequences, without knowledge; and, I might say, without honesty, until it has become matter of doubt, among members of the profession even, whether spinal curvature is curable. " Spinal curvature is curable, but only when all the circumstances which gave rise to it are taken into consideration. " In Lecture IV an instance of spinal curvature is represented in fig. 6, which is a sigmoid curve, consisting of a primary lumbar curve and a consecutive dorsal curve; and the cause of the lumbar curve is obliquity of the pelvis, occasioned by genu valgum. The ordinary treatment of such a case would consist of a spinal instrument to act on the convexity of the dorsal curve, with, perhaps, a second plate to act on the lumbar curve. Let no one suppose, however, that such treat- ment would be effectual to remove the spinal distortion. Not only would it not be removed, but distortion would increase, notwith- standing that the spinal instrument might be worn so long as the cause remained. The treatment should first be directed to the cause of curvature, namely, to the knee. For until the inversion of the knee is removed, the spinal distortion must remain. In this instance the treatment was as follows. An apparatus was applied to the leg to restore the straight line of the limb, the recumbent position was much observed, and slight pressure was made on the lower part of the lumbar curve, while the dorsal curve was supported. " Again, fig. 7 illustrates a case in which the pelvis was rendered oblique through standing much on one foot, and where, consequently, was developed a strongly marked lumbar curve, which was compensated by a dorsal curve. In this instance, as in the last, it was necessary first to remove the cause by obliging the patient to recline in a spinal chair during several hours in the day. When this first point had been accomplished, the removal of the lumbar curve was easy; and, as would be expected, the dorsal or compensating curve was removed even before the primary curve. Thus the recumbent posture must be considered a very important adjunct to other and more direct treat- ment in all those cases which depend primarily on affections of the lower extremities. " The cause of lateral curvature is rarely to be found in the spine itself Generally it must be sought for remotely ; or the cause may be, as it often is, general debility, when the spine partakes with the rest of the organism. "Nothing has been more abused than the mechanical treatment of spinal curvature. Let the case be curable or incurable, and let dis- tortion arise from whatever cause, the treatment in each instance has been the same. Common sense alone would indicate that, in the treat- ment of spinal curvature, the primary curve should first be acted on • and, further, that it ia of little use to act on this primary curve without first attending to the cause which gave rise to the curvature."llEPORT ON SUllGEKY. 386 M. Mulgaigue, lectm-es on orthopasdic Burgeiy (pp. 434, Paris, A. Delaliaye). E. J. Chance, on the nature, &c., of bodily deformiticH', (part i, pp. ,304, Lond., Leniarc). li. Barvvell, on the cure of club-foot without cutting tcudona, &c. (Lond., Churchill). B. E. BrodhurKt, on orthopfedic surgery ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 463, &c.). Dr. Little, on the influence of parturition, &c. (' Obstet. Trans.,' iii, 293). J. Wildberger, practical experience in orthopaedic surgery (pp. 300, Leipz., Weigel). E. Le Gros Clark (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, ii,'83). Dr. Eulenburg ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iv, 301). M. Morel-Lavall6e, coxalgia as a cause of congenital dislocation (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 115, p. 57). C. E. Taylor, infantile paralysis ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1862, ii, 187, 215). M. Jobert, section of the clavicular portion of the sterno-mastoid ('Gaz. d'Hop.,' 1863, p. 314). L. Voigt, case of con- genital absence of the radius ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1863, p. 27). H. W. Berend, diffuse aneurism from a wound of the posterior tibial in division of thetendo Acbillis ('"Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 331). Dr. Hueter, on genu valgum ('Arch. f. Klin.,' Chir. ii, 622) ; and on the etiology of club foot (ib., iv, 12.5).EEPOET ON MIDWIFERY AND THE DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN. BY JOHN MEABUEN BEIGHT, M.D., ASSISTANX-SUEGEON TO THE HOSPITAL rOK WOllEJf. litehature. midtvipert. In America, Dr. Bedford's work on the ' Principles and Practice of Obstetrics ' has reached a third edition (New York, Wood). In France, Delattre has published a ' Practical Treatise on Mid- wifery, and the Diseases of Women and Children' (Brest, Eoger). The sixth edition of Cazeaux's ' Midwifery' has been published (Paris), and we notice a thesis by Bruneau, on ' Pibrous Tumours of the Pelvis as a Cause of Dystocia' (Strasbourg, Christophe), and by Nivert on ' Cephalic Version by External Manipulation in Abnormal Presenta- tions of the Postus' (Paris, Coccoz). In Germany, Prof. Grenser publishes a ' Manual of Midwifery' (Leipsic, Hirzel). In this country, " The Obstetrical Society of London " publishes the fourth volume of its ' Transactions,' containing forty-one articles on some of the principal subjects in obstetric medicine and surgery (London, Longmans). DISEASES or WOMEN. In Prance, Tardieu publishes an able treatise ' On the Medico-Legal Study of Abortion' (Paris, J. B. Bailliere). In Germany, Prof Braun publishes a' Manual of Diseases of Women' (Vienna, Braumiiller). Prof Scanzoui has published a treatise on ' Chronic Metritis,' and dedicated it to the Obstetrical Society of London (Vienna, Seidel). Prof. Luschka brings out a work on ' The Anatomy of the Human Breast' (Tubingen, Laupp), being another of 22838 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC, his series of anatomical essays, written with especial reference to the requirementa of practical medicine. MM. Bernutz and Goupil publish the second volume of their ' Medical Clinicjue on the Diseases of Women.' In our own country, we notice the following: Dr. Graily Hewitt, on ' The Diseases of Women' (Loudon, Long- mans) . Dr. McClintock,' Clinical Memoirs on Diseases of Women' (Dublin, Eannin). Dr. Churchill, on' Diseases of Women,' fifth edition (Dublin, Fannin). Mr. Baker Brown, on ' Ovarian Dropsy ' (London, Churchill). Dr. Mackenzie, ' On the Pathology and Treatment of Phlegmasia Dolens ' (Loudon, Churchill). Dr. Savage, ' A Series of Plates, illustrating the Surgery of the Female Pelvic Organs' (London, Churchill). Dr. Tilt, • A Handbook of TJteriue Therapeutics,' and the third edition of the same author's work on ' Uterine and Ovarian Inflamma- tion' (London, Churchill). Dr. TJvedale West, ' Illustrations of Puerperal Diseases,' second edition (London, Churchill). Dr. Swayue,' Obstetric Aphorisms,' third edition (London, Churchill), and ' The Annual Address in Midwifery of the British Medical Association.' We may mention also the following pamphlets as specially worthy of notice : Dr. Tanner, on ' Cancer of the Female Sexual Organs' (London, Eenshaw). Dr. Tuckwell, on ' Effusions of Blood in the Neighbourhood of the Uterus ' (London, J. Parker). Dr. Chapman, on ' Functional Diseases of Womea' (London, Triibuer). 0 DISEASES OF CHILDEEK. In America, the third edition of Dr. Meig's work on ' Diseases of Children' is published. Prof. Jacobs publishes a course of lectures on ' Dentition and its Derangements' (New York, Bailli^re). Dr. Bodenheimer has written a practical treatise ' On the Etiology, Pathology, and Treatment of the Congenital Malformations of the Eectum and Anus ' (New York, Bailliere). ' In France, Prof. Bouchut has published the second edition of his work on ' Diseases of Infants,' and also a work on ' The Hygiene of the First Period of Childhood ' (Paris, BailliJire). Dr. Seux,' Eesearches on the Diseases of New-born Chddreu (Pans, Bailliere). In Germany, Dr. Stiebel publishes a-treatise on 'Eachitis' (Er- langen). A treatise by Dr. Widerhofer on the 'Diseases of the Umbilicus in New-born Children' (Vienna, Aust). Dr. Laiig, a pamphlet on the ' Acute Catarrh of the Intestinal Tract in Infants (Schaffhausen, Brodtraann).STATISTICS, ETC. 339 In our own country, Mr. Bryant has published his Lettsomian Lec- tures on the ' Surgical Diseases of Children ' (London, Churchill). Dr. Eouth has piiblished the second edition of his work on ' Infant Feeding, and its Influence on Life' (London, Churchill). Among pamphlets, we notice Dr. Meadows has translated Dr. Rogers's treatise on 'Auscultation of the Head' (London, Eenshaw). STATISTICS, ETC. Dr. Steele.—' The Annual Medical Eeport of Guy's Hospital' for 1862, Contains a special account of the Lying-in Charity, of which the follow- ing is a summary (Mr. Doig, 'Med. Times and Graz.,' vol. i, p. 419, 1863) :—" The patients are attended by the pupils of the hospital, under the immediate superintendence of the two obstetric physicians. Two of the senior pupils are in constant residence for two months at a time, to keep the records and to attend cases of urgency, as weU as to direct the junior pupils in cases of doubt or difficulty. The records of this department of the hospital have been always carefully kept, and the small rate of mortality attending its operations is a sufficient criterion of its administrative success. The charity is entirely confined to the south side of the river, and embraces a densely populated neighbourhood of considerable extent. Taking the hospital as a centre, its radius extends two miles in every direction—from Lambeth Walk on the west to Rotherhithe on the east, while the High Street of the Borough forms the central line, and subdivides the area into two nearly equal parts." The total number of labours which occurred during the years 18^4, 1856, and 1861, was 5254, of which there were 1738 during the year 1854, 2011 during 1856, and 1505 during 1861. Of the 5254 women delivered, 810 were primiparse and 4444 were multiparje. The total number of children born was ^310. Of I7SS births during 1854, there were 2028 „ „ 1856, „ 1527 „ „ 1861, „ „ Single. 1721 1994 1485 5200 Twin. 17 18 52 Triplet. Hence twins happened once in about loi labours, while triole occurred only once in 2627 deliveries. Bu-ths. Alive. Male. Female. Stillborn. Mule. Fern. Abortions. Moaslers, Of the I7SS 1680 869 811 66 36 30 8 I 2028 1932 1019 913 96 57 39 1527 1476 1753 723 51 27 24 S088 2641 2447 213 120 93 8 I The number of still-births among the males is greater than among the females, being in the former nearly i in 23, in the latter i in 27 ; the total number of still-births, excluding abortions and monsters, was nearly i in 2j.hepout on midwipehYj etc. the children, 4 were born dead and 24 a]i\ e. An earlier use of the The following were the presentations in 5310 births : Bu-ths. Abnoinml. Breech. Aim. l''uuii). I'ace. I'ooUiiig. TraMvcrsc. I'laccntal. Of the 1755 1707 48 20 6 2 3 »S 2 )> » 2028 1964 64 23 10 3 6 20 2 » j> 1527 1474 S3 24 4 4 8 1 I 1 1 S3I0 5145 i6S 67 20 9 17 46 3 3 Hence abnormal presentations occurred once in about 32 labours; breech, nearly i in 79; arm, i in 265 ; funis, i in 590; face, i in 312 ; footling, I in nearly 115; transverse, i in 1770;'and placental, also I in 1770 deliveries. Of the 5254 women in labour, 19 died, or i in 276-5 cases; and the mortality was due to the following causes :— Three died from exhaustion after haemorrhage, 3 from peritonitis, 3 from convulsions, and i from each of the following causes—rupture of the uterus; laceration of the cervix; metritis ; phthisis; fever; cholera; pneumonia, complicated with erysipelas; Bright's disease; acute rheumatism ; and uraemia. Dr. S. Lawrence (Montrose), "A Statistical Eeport of One Thousand Midwifery Cases " (' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' February and March, 1863). The author insists on the importance of collecting accurate statistics of midwifery in private practice. In the above number are included all cases of birth occurring after the period of quickening, 32 children having been born abortive or premature, of whom 18 were dead and 14 living. Of the 1000 women, 220 were primiparae and 780 multipara3. The number of chOdren born was 1017 (there being 17 cases of twins), of whom 553 were males and 464 females. Five mothers died, and of these, 2 were previously in a feeble state of health. Of the children, 45 mature and immature were born dead. The number of tedious or difficult labours was 83. Delivery was accomplished by the forceps in 28 cases ; there were 34 cases of abnormal presentation, and labour was complicated in 21 cases. (i) Of the 83 tedious and difficult cases, 38 were primipara?, or i to 5 ; and 45 were multiparae, or i to 17. Feeble uterine action, or this with rigidity of the soft parts, occurred in about i of every 6 primi- parae, in I of every 21 multiparae. Of the 83 cases, delivery was ac- complished naturally—i. e. without either medicinal or mechanical aid— in 21; by the forceps in 28 ; ergot was given in 37 cases (always in the second stage, and in infusion) ; in 19 "with apparent benefit;" in 18 " with no perceptible effect;" in 5 cases the tincture of Indian hemp was given, by way of testing its powers as a uterine stimulant," in 2 cases "with seeming benefit, in 3 with none." (2) Of the 28 forceps cases,_ 21 were primiparas, or i to 10 ; and 7 were multipara), or i to 111. Of the mothers in these 28 cases, all recovered bvit one, who died from uterine phlebitis, after a very severe labour from contracted pelvis; in the great majority the recovery was as rapid as in ordinary cases. Of341 STATISTICS^ ETC. forceps would, in the autlior'a opinion, have saved three. In opposition to the opinion of Dr. Murphy, who thinks " that, so far as children are concerned in protracted labour, the proportion of stillborn is very much the same, whether the forceps be employed or not," the author believes that many more children might be saved by their timely use ; and, in support of this proposition, compares the practice of Dr. Hamil- ton, of ralkirk, who holds the same view, with that of the Dublin Lying-in Hospital (in 1848), where the opposite prevailed. Of 731 labours. Dr. Hamilton employed the forceps in 90 cases, or i to 8, and in all these cases the children were born alive. Drs. Hardy and McClintock relate 18 forceps cases in 6634 labours, being i to 368'5 cases. Of these 18 cases, the mothers died in 5 and the children in 8. The author's own experience is directly corroborative of the opinion he advances. In the first ^00 cases he used the forceps in 8 cases, and in 4 of these the children were born dead ; in the last 500 he used them in 20 cases, and in all of these the children were born alive. Hence he believes that, in considering the indications for the use of the forceps, the danger to the child from protracted labour is not dwelt upon with the force and emphasis it deserves. In all the forceps cases, with one exception, chloroform was adminis- tered, the author's experience in this being directly opposed to the opinion of Dr. Meigs, " that the patient's retention of sensibility to pain is an important means of securing her safety in the use of this instrument." In operative cases the author has had the best proof of the perfect safety and great advantage of chloroform ; but in ordinary cases of labour he has so frequently found it retard, or even suspend, uterine action altogether, that he now never administers it in such cases, imless pressed by the patient to do so, and then only towards the close of the expulsive pains. (3) Of the 34 cases of "abnormal presentations," excluding 3 cases (2 breech and i footling), there occurred 9 breech, 4footling, 2 arm, 5 of the funis, i of the face, and 10 of the face to pubis. Of the 31 cases, 8 were primiparse, or i to 27-5 ; and 23 non-primi- parae, or i to 33 •9. Of the cases in which the presentation involved danger to the child from pressure on the cord, 6 were primiparse and 14 multipart; of the 9 breech cases, 6 of the children were born alive and 3 dead. ' In all the cases the breech was allowed to pass before any efforts were made to aid delivery. Of the 4 footling cases, 3 of the children died and i was born alive. In both the arm cases turning was performed under chloroform by means of one foot, and both children were saved, though both were at first asphyxiated. Of the 5 funis cases, 3 of the children died and 2 were saved; version performed in 2 cases, and the funis pushed up into the uterus in 2 cases. . In the face presentation delivery was not long delayed. Of the 10 cases of face to pubis the labour was tedious, and in 2 the forceps were required. (4) The 21 cases of " compUcated labour" include 3 ofEJ3P011T ON MIDWIFEUY, ETC. 342 puerperal convulsious, 7 of ante-partura hajmoi-rhage, aud i of post' partum, 7 of retained placenta, 2 of syncope after delivery, and 1 monster. Eight of these occurred in primipara and 13 in multi- pai'aa. The 3 cases of convulsions were all primipara), and all recovered; in I caao twins were delivered alive by tlie forceps; in each of the cases venesection was employed. _ Of the 7 cases of ante-partum haemorrhage, 5 occurred at the full time and 2 prematurely ; 2 were primiparo3, and 5 multiparas. All the mothers recovered, but only one of the children was saved; in 2 of the cases version was performed, the rest were left to nature after the membranes were ruptured. In the single case of post-partum hemorrhage the latter was arrested by pressure and cold. Of the 7 cases of retained placenta, the retention was due to inertia of the uterus in 6, and in i to hour-glass contraction. In the latter case the placenta was very friable, and broke down during removal. Some small pieces were thus left in the uterus, and, as the patient was much exhausted, it was not deemed prudent to attempt their extraction. Irritative fever and other symptoms of uterine phle- bitis resulted, and the patient died on the eleventh day. In all such cases the author recommends immediate removal of every part of the broken placenta, if possible; but if, from haemorrhage or exhaustion, this be inexpedient, stimulants and ergot should be administered, and, if necessary, after waiting a few hours, the patient should be put under chloroform, and the removal of every portion of the placenta be now effected by the reintroduction of the hand into the uterus. The author believes that the risJc, hoth ofj)ost-])artum hcemorrhage and of retained pla- centa, whether from inertia or irregular contraction, is directly as the timeiohich elapses hettoeen the hirth of the child and the expulsion of the placenta, and that any line of practice, otherwise unoljectionable, tending to secure the expulsion of the afterhirtli loithin.ten or fifteen minutes from the time of the tvoman's delivery, will reduce to a minimum the chance of such contingencies. The following simple and most valuable rule is recommended by the author as the best mode of lessening the chance ot post-partum hemor- rhage. After the birth and separation of the child, let the funis be held with the right hand, and maintained tense, loithout, hoivever, any dragging, and let the left hand at the same time grasp the fundus and body of the uterus through the abdominal parietes, and thus keep up steady pressure until the placenta is expelled. Two cases of syncope followed delivery; in both, recovery resulted from the use of stimulants and pressure over' the uterus. (5) There were 17 twin cases—3 were primipara and 14 non-primi- paraj. In 7 cases both children presented naturally; in 10 one of the children presented abnormally, and this happened, with only one excep- tion, with the second child. The shortest interval between the birth of the children was five minutes, the longest three and a half hours. In each of the 3 primipara? the co-twins were males. All the mothers recovered well, and of the children all were born alive, with the excep- tion of one dead before birth.STATISTICS; ETC. 843 (6) Of the 5 mothers who died (i primipara, 4 raultiparse), 3 were from puerperal peritonitis and 2 from uterine phlebitis. (7) Of the 4'; children born dead, 20 were priraiparous and 25 miU- tiparous. In 18 cases the children were premature—5 primiparous, 13 multiparous. Of tlie 27 at full time, 15 were primiparous and 12 multiparous. Of the 15 primiparous, 7 were dead before labour commenced and 8 died during labour. Hence the danger to the child is nearly three times as great in a first pregnancy as in subsequent ones, and nearly five times as great in a first labour. But the ratio 01 mortality from pressure on the head of the child during labour was m primiparfe i to 73, while in multiparas it was i to 780. Can anything be done to prevent or diminish this excess of infant mortality in first labours ? The author is convinced that the true answer to this is, that in all difficult or tedious cases we ought to employ the forceps much sooner in primiparous than in non-primiparous ones, if we would give our patient an equal chance of having a living child. A comparison of the above statistics with those of large lying-in hospitals is instructive, as showing a far greater liability to diseases of the puerperal state, and hence a much higher rate of mortality in the latter institutions. Prof. Hecker states, in his ' Clinical Eeport of the Lying-in Hospital at Munich' for the year ending October, 1862 (' Mon. f. Geb.,' p. 395, May, 1863), that of 913 deliveries (304 primi- pai'EB, 609 multipara>), 186 women "fell ill," but of these 44 sufiered from slight maladies; of these, 122 recovered, 7 died, and 57 were transferred to another hospital, of whom 32 recovered and 25 died, giving a general mortality of 3'6 per cent. Of the labours, 85 were premature, and 828 at full term; 928 children were born (tvrins in 15 cases), of whom 18 died before and 20 during birth. The opera- tions were as follows]:—Podalic version, 9 cases; extraction, 16 cases (in 7 after version) ; forceps, 21 cases; Cassarean section, once; reposi- tion of prolapsed funis, once ; of prolapsed arm, 3 cases; removal of the placenta, 3 cases. The funis prolapsed in 3 cases of head presentation (in 2 the children were saved, in one case by reposition, in the other by extraction with the forceps ; in a third case the festal heart was heard 20 hours after reposition of the funis, but the child was born asphyxi- ated) ; in 4 cases with pelvis and cross presentations (all the children born dead). . Partial placenta prsevia occurred in two primiparse, with, in both cases, cessation of the haemorrhage after rupture of the mem- branes and the birth of dead premature children. Haemorrhage, post- partum, occurred in 13 cases, but with no fatal result. 11132 cases rupture of the perinaeum occurred (27 primiparae, ^ multiparae), but in no case did the laceration involve the sphincter ani. A complete cure was obtained by primary union in 17 cases, in 8 a partial cure, the remaining 7 were discharged uncured. The indications for the forceps —employed in 13 primiparae and 8 multiparaj—were, contraction of the pelvis, 2 cases ; abnormal position of the head, 4 cases; abnormal rela- tion between head and pelvis, 2 cases ; prolapse of the fimis, 3 cases ; atony of the uterus, long duration of the expulsive pains, and danger tohepoet on midwifery, etc. 814 the life of the child, lo cases; 17 living aud 4 dead children were thus delivered. Of 304 priniiparrp, 66 fell ill, aud 15 died, or 227 per cent.; of 609 niultiparaj, 76 fell ill, and 17 died, or 22'.3 per cent. The author thinks that the cause of this great disproportion is the much greater length of tlie labour in primiparte, aud hence the gi-eatcr pressui-e on the soft parts. Of the 142 cases, 45 were injured during the labour, either by natural or artilicial delivery. Of the children, about 22 per cent, died from diseases very similar to puerperal fever ; and as if to show the subtle influence of this miasma, a series of children of healthy M'omen quickly died from diseases of the lowest type, general septicaimia, septic peritonitis, &c. Prof. Ilecker believes that the opening of the hospital for the instruction of the students during the summer session, and for the midwifery pupils during the three following mouths, cannot have exercised any influence upon the origin and communication of the disease, for the arrest of which the most careful hygienic measures were adopted. GENEBAI; ANATOMY AND PHTSIOIOOY. Prof. Kussmaul reviews the question of the transmigration of the ovum (" Further Contributions to the Knowledge of the Transmigration of the Human Ovum," ('Mon. f. Geburt.,' October, 1862, and 'Brit, aud For. Med.-Chir. Eev.,' January, 1S63). The following case is first related. After suflering from acute pains in the abdomen and chest, with haemorrhage from the vagina, for a fortnight, a woman died in a state of collapse. After death a large quantity of blood was found in the abdominal cavity ; the uterus, pear-shaped, was enlarged; the cavity was lined with decidua, terminating at the os internum and at the Fallopian tubes; the anterior aspect and both sides of the uterus were covered with stringy growths of cellular,tissue ; the left ovary, very large, was close to the uterus ; both surfaces were covered with stringy growths of cellular tissue ; thin strong threads ran from the outer side of this ovary to the extremity of the Fallopian tube ; a w^ell-developed corpus luteum existed in the outer part; the left Fal- lopian tube, with the broad ligament, showed long and short free- hanging threads of cellular tissue. The rujlit ovary had no corpus luteum, but was also covered with threads; its outer free end impinged upon a tumour, the fruit-sac. The rUjlit tube was dilated in its outer half into a thick fleshy swelling. Between the right ovary aud right Fallopian tube was a cyst, with thin walls larger than a hazel-nut. The fruit-sac was as large as a goose's egg; it lay behind the right Fallo- pian tube and ovary, apparently grown to both. The walls of the sac consisted of peritoneum, a strong muscular coat, the chorion, and amnion. Within the sac lay a placenta with extravasated blood, and an embryo of more than two months' development. Now, since the corpus luteum was on the left side, and the tubal gestation was on the rujlit, at the fringed extremity, the ovum must have passed over from the left ovary to the right tube. The author thinks that the ovum did not pass through the left tube, across theGEKEUAL AKATOMY AND PHYSIOrOGY. 345 uterus, and aloug the entire length of the right tube, because the middle part of tlie right tube was compressed by the cyst described; but believes that there was an extra-uterine transmigration, and that the ovum passed either directly or after a passage through the abdominal cavity into the right Tallopian tube. In support of this view, the two eases of Oldham and Eokitansky are quoted. In Eokitansky's case a uterine pregnancy resulted, an interstitial pregnancy in Oldham's, and a tubal pregnancy in the present case. If, in these three cases, the morsus diaboli of one side had been united by adhesions to the opposite ovary, the mode in which the migration happened would be clear enough, but only in Oldham's case were such adhesions probable. Klob showed that the morsus diaboli of one side was often easily brought into relation with the opposite ovary, and held that, as the result of the turgescence attending men- struation, such a relation frequently occurred. The author contends that such proximity is not necessary for the passage of the ovum, and cites the observations of J. MuUer, that in many amphibia and fishes the openings of the tubes are widely distant from the ovaries. He thinks that a kind of capillary stream is set up by the action of the ciliated epithelium, which mostly leads towards the openings of the tubes ; and that this is more likely to sweep the ovum into the tube corresponding to the ovary from which the ovum escaped. If the ovum escapes from the hinder surface of the ovary, it may easily fall into the peritoneal cavity, and be lost altogether. The possibility of the passage of an ovum from the ovary of one side to the opposite side of a simple uterus, is proved by the fact that the placental wound is frequently found on the side opposite to the ovary which fui'nishes the corpus luteum, and even, as Virchow observed, over the mouth of the opposite Fallopian tube. The author thinks it probable that intra-uterine transmigration may be effected through the muscular erectile action or compression of the uterus occurring shortly after conception, squeezing the yet free ovum upwards towards the opening of the opposite tube, and possibly into the tube itself. See also Klob, "On the Migration of Ova" ('Wien. Wochenbl.,' xvii, 40, 1861, and ' Tear-book' for 1862, p. 331). Dr. r. A. Kehrer, " On the Tubo-ovarian Connecting Apparatus of Pank, and the Mechanism of the Transit of the Ovulum into the Fallopian Tube " ('Henle und Pfeuffer's Zeits.,' 1863). Prof. Braun, of Vienna, in an interesting paper, " A new Contribu- tion to the Knowledge of Amniotic Bands " (' Zeitschr. der Gresellschaft der Aerzte in Wien.,' 1862, and 'Mon. f. Geb.,' March, 1863), endea- vours to explain the mode of formation of bands and membranes in the amniotic sac, which are sometimes found in connection with intra- uterine amputation of foetal limbs. The formation of the amnion takes place through cell-multiplication and special relations of growth of the external layer of the germinal membrane. The first amniotic folds are developed by a rapid surface- growth at one spot; these are carried up in a definite direction towardsllEPOUT ON MIDWIFBEY, ETC. 346 the back of the embryo, and the final coalescence of the approaching folds occurs in one point, after wliich the amnion remains for a time in connection with the serous envelope. Anomalies of this connection, whicli are most frequently caused by a deficiency of amniotic liquid, or by the secretion occurring too late, may interfere with the development of the embryo, of which the author communicates two cases— (1) On the body of a new-born child, weighing four and a half pounds, and nineteen inches in lengtli, a skinny, flaccid sac was found at the back of the cranium. This sac presented on its posterior aspect a fissure two inclies in length, and was covered with shreds resembling the amnion in appearance and structure. The right frontal bone, the parietal bones, and the occipital bone, were undeveloped. In the skull-cavity were eero-fibrous strings running from one side to the other. The palate was fissured. On the riglit hand the first three fingers were com- pletely amputated; from the metacarpal bone of the index to the stump of the middle finger ran a sero-fibrous string, having at its extremity an appendage as large as a pea, covered with normal skin. On the left hand were several strings which incompletely cut the thumb, divided the index fingers into two unequal halves, and compressed and bent the middle finger ; in place of the fourth and little fingers a small protuberance existed, covered with skin, and divided in several parts. On the left foot the second and third toes had grown together. On the right foot the third toe was attached to the fourth by a sero-fibrous cord; the ungual phalanx of the second was amputated. On the pla- centa were found indications of amniotic bands. (2) The second case related to a male foetus, born living, fifteen and a half inches in length. The frontal bone was not developed, and several scars existed on the forehead, which were connected internally with the dura mater, and through this at several points with the inner mem- branes of the brain; from these latter ran several torn pseudo-mem- branous strings. In place of .the nose, two, fissures existed. The upper lip was split in its right half, and attached to the right ala nasi; the left half was everted, together with its alveolar continuation. On the right hand the ungual phalanges of the three middle fingers were imperfectly developed, and from the end of the ring finger a cord about 2" in length ran under the middle to the iilnar side of the index finger. On the left hand, besides the thumb, all the fingers were imperfectly developed, the last three bent, and attached to each other by bands of skin. The right foot was clubbed, the left was normal in direction, but the phalanges of the fourth and fifth toes were very rudimentary; the rest only consisted of a rudimentary phalanx, without any trace of nail- formation, and connected with each other by bridges of skin ; on the second toe was a torn pseudo-membranous string. From the inner surface of the amnion, which appeared normal in appearance, several strings proceeded, 2" to 3" in length, hanging free in the amniotic cavity, or attached to opposite points. At the point of insertion of the umbilical cord, near the edge of the placenta, roughened, a spot existed, denuded of amnion, from which several thin shreds and strings proceeded.347 TEMPEEATUEE, ETC., DUEINO THE PUEBPEEAL STATE. Dr. ^y. M. Turubull ('Australian Med. Journ.,' July, 1863), "On tlie Measurement of the Postal Head," gives the general results of the measurement of 50 heads of children horn in Australia. Of the mothers of these children, 28 were Irish, 12 English, 6 Scotch, i German, i a native of Jersey, i a Victorian (Melbourne), and 1 was born in Sydney. Thirty male and twenty female heads were measured. In. Eighths, The mean occipito-frontal diameter was . • 4 slii; The mean bi-parietal 3 4jn J The mean bi-mastoid 3 ; The Victorian, female, gave occipito-frontal .4 7 ; Bi-parietal . . . . . . "35; Bi-mastoid . . . . . . .34, The author contrasts these figures with those of several authorities, and finds that the results of his own measurements, as regards the difierence between the bi-parietal and bi-mastoid diameter, differ some- what from those of Prof, Simpson, the average difference being scarcely iths of an inch. OK TEirPEUATTJBE, ETC., DUEINd THE PUEBPEEAL STATE. Dr. r. "Winckel, of the University of Berlin, has published an inte- resting paper, entitled, "Observations on the Temperature during Labour and the Puerperal State " ('Mon. f. G-eburt.,' Dec, 1862). Although inany valuable observations have been made on the tem- perature of the living body in its normal physiological condition and in febrile diseases, it is remarkable that investigations on the state of the animal heat during and after parturition have been hitherto altogether wanting ; and this is the more singidar, since the correct appreciation of the temperature curves of the puerperal state must be most closely connected with the whole process of labour, as well as with the conse- quent production of heat. When we reflect that, according to Hecker's opinion, the intensity and succession of pains exercise a most important influence upon the increase of temperature soon after labour, may not the pains themselves be measured by the thermometer ? And may we not hope to discover certain differences between normal and abnormal pains, especially as, according to the experiments of Helmholtz, the temperature of a muscle affected by tetanus is perceptibly raised; and according to Beclard, a muscle merely affected by tension developea more heat than when it performs, at the same time, an external me- chanical function ? Prom various reasons, the author always determined the temperature of the vagina before, during, and after labour. A sensitive thermometer was placed in the vagina, so that the globe lay from two to four inches within the canal, and this was kept in position by the thighs, which were pressed against each other. To determine the temperature in the axilla during labour is not only tedious to the physician, but almost in- tolerable to most parturient women, from the irksome position of the arm. In the axilla it is necessary that the thermometer shall remain at least twenty-five minutes; while in the vagina, on the average, nineUEPOUT ON SlIDWIFERV, ETC. 318 miuutes are sufficieut for the thermometer to reach-its highest standard; moreover, the iiistrumeut docs uot cause any iiiconveuieuce to the women, whetlier they lie ou the back or on the side. The questions then arose whether the canal of the vagina might not be too wide during labour to allow an accurate deteraiination of the temperature to be made, and whether conclusions as to the temperature of the whole body could bo drawn from tlie local hyperajmia of the vagina. It therefore became necessary to make comparative observations on the temperature in the axilla and in tlie vagina. These gave the following results:—(ist) That if all other circumstances, such as clothing, air, food, &c., remained the same, the difference between the temperature of the axilla and of the vagina was nearly constant, that of the latter being o'i° to 0-4° C. higher than that of the former; (2nd) that if variations occur in. this difference, they almost always depend ou the greater variations of the temperature of the skin ; (3rd) that even if con- siderable morbid conditions of the vagina and uterus were present, which generally occurred after, but not during birth, there was almost always a constant ratio between, the temperature of both places, so that it was clear we might, during and after parturition, draw just as certain conclusions as to the temperature of the blood from the heat of the vagina as from that of the axilla. In 100 observations made in women who were in the last two months of pregnancy, the author found the mean temperature of the vagina, between 9 and 10 a.m., to be ioo'67° !Pahr.; and between 5 and 7 p.m., 10079°. T^^t-s remained the same during the whole of the last two months, and did not even increase during the last few hours before labour. In one case only a slight increase of tem- perature occurred in the evenings of the last four days before labour. The expectation, therefore, of being able to determine the advent of labour by the thermometer was not fulfilled. In the first period of labour it is not difl&cult to ascertain the tem- perature of the vagina; during the second stage, if the head descends rapidly, the thermometer is sometimes expelled; but where the head advances slowly, or where it remains fixed for some time, we may, even during the second period, determine the temperature without much difficulty. Premature rupture of the membranes is avoided by intro- ducing the globe in an oblique direction towards one or other synchon- drosis, below the posterior labium of the oa uteri. In drawing conclusions from the facts observed, the normal daily variations of temperature must be considered. Animal heat increases, under ordinary circumstances, from 2 to 10 a.m., and decreases from 10 a.m. till 2 p.m.; it then again rises from a till 6 p.m., and decreases from 6 p.m. till 2 a.m. Muscular activity perceptibly increases the temperature, according to Davy, by 3°—7°C.; and inasmuch as muscular action continually in creases as labour progresses, we should expect a marked increase of temperature, especially in primiparse. But many circumstances concur during labour to regulate, and jeven diminish, the temperatiu-e. The majority of parturient women take little or no food during labour, but, correspond- ingly with the increased action of the skin, most of them only ask for cooling drinks, by which animal heat is diminished. Moreover, inspira-349 GENERAL ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. tioa is generally short, rapid, and superficial, while expiration is pro- longed and intensified ; hence less oxygen is carried into the blood, and, at the same time, the evaporation from the lungs is increased, whereby cold is produced. Heat is also lost hf evaporation from the skin, especially as the women are only lightly covered. Trom observations made on forty parturient women, the following results were obtained:— The mercury always rose much more rapidly during the pains than during the intervals of the pains. The temperature reached its acme at the acme of the pain, and then rapidly fell. In every natural labour the temperature of the body is slightly raised—■ o"34° to o'4o° Fahr. It does not rise continually, and in proportion to the progress of labour, but the ordinary daily variations of temperature remain unafiected. The temperature is a little higher in the second than in the first period. The temperature was not afiected by early rupture of the membranes, nor by the labours being premature. Imme- diately after birth, taking the average of fifty cases, it was 105*05° Fahr. Compared with the temperature of the second period, it was slightly increased when labour occurred in the morning, and slightly diminished when labour occurred in the evening. After every normal labour the temperature rises about 1° during the first twelve hours, and only falls in the second twelve hours. In the case of abnormal pains it was found that, if any inflammation was present, the temperature increased continuously, even during the intervals between the pains, and that after birth it suddenly fell again considerably. Dr. Puech ('G-az. des Hop.,' April 21st, 1863) has communicated to the Academy of Sciences, Paris, a paper " On the Influence of Vicarious Menstruation on Ovulation," of which the following are the conclusions : 1. Vicarious menstruation, i. e. supplemental haemorrhage, is said to exist when, at the regular periods, a flow of blood takes place elsewhere than from the genital organs. 2. All parts of the body may be the seat of these ho3morrhages; nevertheless they occur more frequently in some localities than in others; thus, in Dr. Puech's cases, they were met with from the stomach in 32 cases, from the breast in 25 cases, from the lungs in 24 cases, from the nasal mucous membrane in 18 cases. 3. In all cases which have been carefully observed, antecedents either of hysteria or of an exaggerated nervous sensibility have been noticed. 4. In general, the menses ha,ve been absent (183 cases), but sometimes (in 15 cases), at the very time of the occurrence of the vicarious men- struation, a slight flow of blood has been noticed. 5. The genital organs are generally healthy, although they have sometimes been found to be abnormal. In 11 cases there was atresia, either congenital or accidental. ' 6. With the exception of these last-mentioned cases, absence of the menses does not imply sterility. Except in the case of grave disorders ovulation continues to take place, and the rupture of the Graafian vesicle corresponds with the period of vicarious menstruation. 7. Pregnancy, accordingly, is possible, and has been observed. ItllEPORT ON MIDWIPERYj ETC. 350 suapeuds the deviation for the time, although it may reappeai* after delivery or at the coasatiou of nursing, 8. Although compatible with health, and occasionally existing for the whole period between puberty and the time of the cessation of men- struation, the deviation is a pathological condition ; nay, more, it is not free from danger, having occasionally been the cause of death. Dr. Matthews Duncan describes the state of the cervix uteri in a woman who died in the eighth month of pregnancy (' Trans, of Med.- Chir. Society of Edinburgh,' June 1863, and 'Ed. Med. Journal,' Sept., 1863). The cervix measured about an inch in length. It easily admitted the finger. Its tissue was much hypertrophied, and com- pletely softened in every part. The rugse, especially the anterior and posterior columnje, were greatly hypertrophied and very prominent. The lower margin of the cervix could easily be identified by the presence of a row of Nabothean follicles; the upper margin by the abrupt termination of the arbor vitse, and the expansion into the smooth-walled cavity of the uterus. The internal surface of the body of the uterus, examined microscopically after the chorion was detached from it, showed no denudation of the muscular fibres, but the surface formed of a layer easily detached, in an early stage of putridity, composed of decidual structures, especially of fusiform nucle- ated cells, which seemed to be less fusiform in shape and rounder the nearer they were to the chorion. B-oederer held that after the fifth month the cervix is gradually expanded from above downwards, and contributes to the formation of the cavity of the pregnant uterus (' Elementa artis Obstetriciae,' Got- tingen, 1759, p. 23). Weitbrecht, in his treatise ('De TJtero Muliebri,' 1750), first described the true development of the cervix in pregnancy, and showed by actual dissection that it remains imdeveloped till a short time before parturition. This view is confirmed by the course of the uterine artery as it approaches the cervix, and also by the situation of the broad ligaments iipon the side of the uterus, which remain, during pregnancy, nearly the same as in the unimpregnated state. If the cervix were developed—as most writers assert—then it woidd necessarily follow that, with the growth and expansion of the cervix into the lower part of the great iiterine cavity, the uterine arteries and the lower parts of the broad ligaments would be elevated, accompanying the growing adjacent parts, and that the arteiy would approach some part of the expanded uterus. Dr. A. S. Donkin, in a paper on " The Physiological Action of the Uterus in Parturition" ('Ed. Med. Journ.,' Dec, 1863), disputes the accuracy of Wigand's theory that the contractions of the uterus in par- turition are essentially peristaltic, commencing in the cervix and gradually advancing into the fundus, and then pursuing a retrograde course to the point from which they originated. Dr. Murphy (' Lect.f GENERAL ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 351 on Midwifery,' 2nd edit., p. 180) considers uterine contraction to be peristaltic; but, in opposition to Wigand's theory, maintains that it commences in the fundus, and pursues its course towards the orifice of the uterus. The tension of the cervix, which, according to Wigand and his followers, constitutes the earliest manifestation of uterine contrac- tion, is considered by Dr. Murphy to be merely passive, and the result of the mechanical pressure of the liquor amnii propelled against the inner surface of the lower segment of the uterus. Braun (' Lehrbuch der Geburt.,' p. 150, Vienna, 1857) maintains that the contractions of the uterus do not begin in the cervix, but at the orifices of the Fallopian tubes, and then expand equally over the entire circumference of the organ. Scanzoni ('Lehrbuch der Geburt.,' p. 171, Vienna, 1853) agrees with Dr. Murphy in his objections to "Wigand's theory, but holds that a normal uterine contraction commences neither in the fundus nor in the cervix, but is equally spread over the whole organ. Dr. Christie (' Ed. Med. Jour.,' vol. iv, p. 481) asserts that the retraction of the foetal head at the commencement of a labour pain—on which Wigand chiefly based his theory—is not a real, but only an apparent occurrence. The above authorities, though differing as to the origin and course of the uterine contraction, all agree that in each contraction the entire organ participates, the cervix included. The author believes this latter view to be inaccurate, and submits the two following propositions : (i) During natural parturition the seat of contraction is the fundus and body of the uterus; contraction ceases entirely in the cervical segment. (2) The cervix, and a short zone of the body of the titer us, continuous ivith and adjoining it, do not contract tvith each labour pain, but, instead, undergo passive mechanical expansion, by ivhich the canal of the cervix is dilated so as to perm it the escape of the foetus and its appendages. Physiologically, then, during parturition a line separates the lower or cervical zone from the lateral and fundal regions above. Beloto this line there is passive mechanical expansion; above it, active rhythmic contraction. The author supports these propositions by the following arguments: I. The marked differences in anatomical and histological structure between the fundus and cervix uteri. a. In the mode of connection with the peritoneum, on which M. Jobert observes (' Lancet,' 1844, vol. i, p. 3 70), " It may be established as a law that the peritoneum is intimately connected with the body of the uterus by muscular fibre, both in woman and the lower animals, never by areolar or yellow elastic tissue; while through the entire mammalian aeries lax areolar or connective tissue is the mode of union between the peritoneum and the neck of the uterus, the vagina and lare-e ligaments." ^ ^ b. In the great difference between the middle coat of the cervix and that of the fundus—first, in the absence of a superficial layer of longi- tudinal muscular fibres; secondly, in the much more circular an-ange- ment of its muscular fibres ; and thirdly, in the preponderance of elastic fibrous tissue over the muscular element. c. In the peculiar arrangement of the mucous membrane of the cervix852 EEPOUT ON midwifehy, etc. ■which is folded up in a manner so complex as to give the greatest pos- sible extent of surface in the least possible space. 2. The pathoJoc/ij of placenta prwvia* nh.ow^ that the whole of that portion of the placenta (whether entire or in part) which is abnormally implanted tuithin the lower or cervical zone of the uterus is detached or peeled off" during the first stage of labour, tohile the other portion, normalhj seated begond or above the honndarg of this zone, retains its attachment until after the expulsion of the fosius. The active rliythmic contraction of the upper zone, i. e. above the line of spontaneous detachment, with the passive or elastic expansion of the lower zone, clearly explains this. 3. The gradual thinn ing, and at last complete obliteration, of the cervix as labour progresses. Practical observation further convinces the author that the cervical region of the uterus does not contract during a labour pain; the rigidity of which it is then the seat is not evidence of contraction, but the effect of the distending mechanical forces to which it is subjected. If the views above stated be correct, then it is easy to understand why the encroachment of the placenta, even to the slightest degree, within the cervical zone of the uterus, is incompatible with normal labour; why any portion of the placenta thus abnormally seated is detached during that process, and its separation attended by haemorrhage of a character opposite to that which is accidental and^jos^ partum, in being synchronous with uterine contraction, and ceasing during relaxa- tion ; and lastly, ivhy this unavoidable haemorrhage is spontaneously and permanently arrested at a certain period during the progress of labour. The period of spontaneous cessation of the haemorrhage in placenta prsevia has been shown by Dr. Barnes (op. cit., p. 54) to coincide with the period of complete detachment of the placenta fi-om its abnormal adhesion within the cervical zone. The author believes these phenomena to be due to the mechanical dilatation of the cervix, and not, as Dr. Bacues thought, to its con- traction. In cases of placenta prsevia during the first stage of labour, this expansion of the cervical zone of the uterus and detachment of the j)lacenta from it proceed pari passu until the period arrives when the portion of the latter abnormally seated is entirely cast ofi". The sudden arrest of the hsBinorrhage at this period is not due simply to the completion of placental detachment, but to the degree of expansion tvhich the cervical zone has then undergojte; the iitero-placental vessels, previously divided on its inner surface, are by this expansion of its tissues mechanically compressed and occluded in passing through its substance. In other words, the remarkable change of contour—of circular stretching and shortening—which this region of the uterus has then been subjected to, and the disturbance of the natural relations of its tissues, are so extreme, that blood-vessels can no longer permeate its substance as cylindrical canals pervious to the blood. This mechanical squeezing of the divided utei-o-placental vessels con- tinues until the foetus is expelled; passive contraction of the cervix then replaces the previous passive expansion, and in its turn is power- • See Dr. Barnes on the ' Piitbology and Treatment of Placenta Trfcvin.'853 UTERINE AND EXTRA-UTEKINE PREGNANCY. fully hajmostatic in preventing a recurrence of the ha)mon-hage after the uterus has been emptied. This is the mechanism by which the ante-partuin hffimorrhage in placenta pr£evia, whether partial or central and complete, is spontaneously and permanently arrested. In a paper " On the State of the Internal Surface of the Uterus after Delivery" ('Trans, of Obstet. Society of London,' vol. iv, p. 107), Dr. Matthews Duncan supports the conclusion of William Hunter, that" the decidua is an efflorescence of the internal coat of the uterus itself, and that one stratum of it is alwaifs left upon the uterus after delivery^ Cruveilhier taught that, after delivery, the muscular tissue of the body of the uterus is everywhere laid bare, and Dubois still holds a similar opinion ('Traite Coraplet de I'Art des Accouchements,' torn, i, livr, 2ine, p. 430); but the author believes that at no time during pregnancy, or after it, is the decidua thrown off in mass, or the muscular tissue denuded. As the superficial layers of the decidua gradually become obsolete and caducous during pregnancy, new growth of mucous mem- brane takes place beneath the old; and at whatever time miscarriage may occur, the separated decidua always leaves a layer covering the internal surface of the uterus. In support of this, the author cites the observations of Chisholm ('Ed. Med. Journ.,' Dec, i857),Virchow, ibid.), EobinCMem. del'Acad.Imp. deMed.,' i86i,p. 150)^ and Priestley ('On the Development of the Gravid Uterus,' p. 98). In reference to the pla- cental site, the author's original opinion, that after delivery the persistent layer of mucous membrane is found, as in early pregnancy, to be thicker at the site of the insertion of the placenta than elsewhere, is confirmed by the more recent researches of Eobiu. "With regard to the reproduction of uterine mucous membrane after delivery, or during pregnancy, Robin and Priestley believe that during pregnancy, after the fourth month has passed, the whole mucous membrane of the uterus, or the whole decidua, with the exception of the serotina, is thrown off from the subjacent muscular layer, being displaced by a new mucous lamina, which at that time springs up beneath the old decidua. The author dissents from this view, and believes that at no time, either during pregnancy or after delivery, is the musciUar layer laid bare. SIMTJLTANEOrS TJTERINE AND EXTRA-TJTEEIKE PREGNANCY, PEOCEEDINa TO TUE ETTLL TEEM OF GESTATION. The two following cases are interesting from their extreme rarity • and the recovery of the patient in the second case is the more remark- able, as most, if not all, of the cases on record have ended fatally in the early months of gestation. In the first, recorded by Mr. L. E. Cooke ('Trans, of Obstet. Society of London,' vol. v, p. 144, and ' Lancet' vol. ii, 1863, p. 39), the patient, £et. 39, was taken in her fourth (labour on Dec. 8th, 1862. Her previous labours had been natural, and, with the exception of some difiiculty in standing, from a constant sense of weight in the abdomen, and an inability to lie long upon her back or upon the 23354 REPORT ON MIDWIl'ERYj ETC. left side, no unusual symptoms were present during pregnancy. On external examination, tlio abdominal tumour was more defined and spiierical than usual, tilted forwards, and considerably to tlie left side, Avitli its apex on a level with, and about two inches to the left of tlie umbilicus, so that ovarian disease was at first suspected. A furtlier examination revealed tlie undoubted existence of a living foetus, and a placental souffle was heard over a largo portion of the tumour. A vaginal examination showed the canal much elongated, its ruga; oblite- rated, and the os uteri beyond reach. Suspecting an abnormal gestation, Mr. Spencer Wells and Dr. Kumar (Vienna) now saw the patient with the author. It was thought tlie sounds of two foetal hearts could be heard, while the extensive surface over which the placental bruit was audible gave a suspicion of two placentaB. At this time the pains were so slight and at such long intervals that, after the bladder had been emptied and a sedative administered, the patient was left. She passed a good night, and by 6 p.m. next evening the expulsive pains were strong and regular. On examination, the sacral concavity was now found occupied by a firm, resisting, rounded tumour, presenting no trace of fluctuation, and immovable under as much force as was justifiable between the pains. Its presence reduced the antero-posterior diameter of the inlet to less than two fingers' breadth, through which no 03 uteri could be felt; but, resting ou and anterior to the symphysis, the foetal head was recognised. Dr. Greenhalgh and Mr. Meates now saw the patient. The diagnosis was difficult, from the great anteversion of the uterus, but the obvious indication was to deliver the woman as speedily as possible. Chloroform being given, the tumour was with diffi- culty pushed out of the pelvis, and delivery accomj)lished by version. The placenta was removed without difficulty; no subsequent haemor- rhage occurred, but vomiting, dyspnoea, and great abdominal pain supervened next day, and slie died about fortj^-eight hours after delivery. On opening the abdomen after death, the bod^ of a full-grown female foetus was foimd within, its membranes unruptured and distended with liquor amnii. The anterior surface of the chorion was in immediate relation with the abdominal peritoneum, to which it was not adherent, nor was it enclosed in a capsule of any kind. Beneath the tumour the uterus lay, partially contracted and unruptured. In the peritoneal cavity was much grumous fluid. On opening the membranes and removing the foetus, it was found that the placenta was situated in and firmly attached to a shallow capsule, formed of the expanded and en- larged fimbria; of the right Fallopian tube, which, on its convex or peritoneal aspect, was firmly bound down by numerous and very tough bands. A stylet could be passed along the tube to its expanded ex- tremity, where it was arrested by the placenta. The author remarks that the lessons derivable from this case are— 1. That in cases of doubtful tumours complicating parturition, evidence of an extra-uterine fostation should be sought for as soon as possible after delivery. 2. "Whether, in the event of sucli a discovery, it is or is not probable that the adhesions of the tumours may be so "firm and numerous as to render gastrotomy inadmissible.UTEUINE AND EXTRA-UTERINE PREGNANCY. 855 3. Whether, supposing the existence of such adhesions to be admitted, it is advisable or justifiable to remove the foetus alone, with the cer- tainty of a portion of the liquor amnii escaping into the peritoneal cavity, and with the possibility of the jjlacenta becoming encysted, and being thro'wn off at a future period. The second case is recorded by Dr. J. Pennefatber ('Lancet,' vol.i, 1863, p. 688). A lady, £et. 38, the mother of five children, miscarried in August, 1861, and again became pregnant in the following October. From the time of conception she felt unusually unwell, and suffered much from constipation. While dressing, on April 3rd, 1862, she was seized with acute pain in the abdomen, which was relieved by purgatives. Much tenderness, however, remained; and she was unable to lie on either side, but more especially the left. Constipation continued during pregnancy, and vomiting and flatulence distressed her much. The abdomen continued to increase until it attained an enormous size; the stomach now retained little else than brandy and water, and sleep was only obtained by large doses of morphia. On September 4th, after a labour of six hours, a full-grown female infant was born. Trom the size of the abdomen, her medical attendant suspected a twin case; but after careful examination, the tumour was considered to be ovarian. The author now saw her. A large hard tumour was felt to the left of the umbilicus ; and, with some difficulty, the foetal heart was heard. Ergot was giveu, and found to act powerfully on the uterus, but the tumour was not influenced by it. Half an hour after it was given no foetal move- ments could be distinguished. The uterus now ascended considerably, and the author regarded the case as one of coexisting intra- and extra- uterine pregnancy. The patient, who had previously been mucb emaciated, after this rapidly gained flesh, and for three months her general health steadily improved. In the early part of February, bow- ever, hectic set in, with distressing diarrhoea and profuse sweats, the pulse ranging from 120 to 160. On February i4tb her medical attendant detected fluctuation in the left iliac region. Concluding that this arose from fluid in the ovary, and with the perfect concurrence of two other practitioners, a full-sized trocar was plunged into the tumour. No fluid flowed, and on withdrawing the trocar it was covered with fa3ces. The patient was kept on her back, and the wound healed rapidly. The hectic immediately subsided, and for a few days all the urgent symptoms were much relieved. The bowels then became trou- blesome, tenesmus occurred, and the emaciation was extreme. On the loth of March the abdominal tumour had become much smaller, and from the constant tenesmus, and the immense quantities of faecal matter passed, it was thought the tumour might be caused by an accumulation of fasces in the rectum. Examination of the bowel by the finger caused intense pain, but while using the speculum ani a bone of the foetal skull was seen at the orifice of the vagina. The patient was now put under chloroform, and the vagina dilated by a large speculum. Th6 parietal and occipital bones were first brought away, and after the clavicles and scapulae had been extracted, firm traction on the sternumhki'Out on mfdwifery, etc. 356 bi'ought down !i full-grown male child, minus the head, much decom- posed, and saturated in linces. The vagina was well syringed out, and the patient left free from pain. Examination with the speculum two days after sliowed a large rent in the vagina to the right of the os uteri. Yov some days all ftccal matter passed per vaginam about every half hour ; this gradually diminished, and two months afterwards tlie fajces passed naturally, and the patient rapidly regained health and etrengtii. TJlTtTSTJAL LOCALITY 01" PEEGNAKCT. Dr. Haydou records a case of extra-uterine foetation, in Avliicli two fu3tuses were found in connection with the same tube (' Trans, of Obstet. Society of London,' vol. v, p. 280). A young woman died after a few hours' illness, from rupture of the sac of a tubal foetation, and consequent haemorrhage. The post-mortem examination showed all the organs healthy, except the uterus and appendages. In the peritoneal cavity was found a mass of coagulated blood extending seven inches upwards from the pubes towards the left ilium, and from ten to twelve inches on the right side up to and round the duodenum. In the pelvis were several pounds of dark, clotted blood. The foetus had escaped from the ruptured sac, and lay vrith its placenta and membranes loose in the pelvis. Dr. Tyler Smith and Dr. Braxton Hicks give a report of the uterus and its appendages. After mentioning the size of the uterus, and its decidua, they show that the right Fallopian tube came from the middle of the uterus. The tube was much elongated and distended in the middle by a sac which had burst. The right ovary, double the size of the left, was attached to the middle third of the sac, and contained a corpus luteum of a six months' normal pregnancy, except that the centre was already filled with a white structure, and seemed to have possessed a well-defined border to the cavity. The foetus which escaped answered to that of a three months' pregnancy, was enclosed in its membranes, and presented a shri- velled appearance, with scarcely any trace of bony structure. Appended to the edge of the rent in the sac was a small solid mass the size of a walnut, which proved to be also a small foetus, packed tightly within a membrane, the base of which was adherent to the outside of the sac by firm membranous adhesions, forming a narrow pedicle. There was no trace of any ovular structures beyond the enclosing membrane. The following conclusions are added by the reporters :—ist. That some time since, the patient had conceived extra-uterine; that the foetus was attached to the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube, in such a manner as not to form any impediment to conception. That the i'oetus died at about the second month of pregnancy, enclosed still in its ovular structures ; that it then gradually came away in its present state, the chorion villi being absorbed. 2nd. That at a later period, probably six months before death, she again conceived extra-uterine, but the ovum now descended to the middle of the tube, where it became arrested, lived about three months, and then died, three months after which the sac burst and death ensued. It appears probable that the position and length of the Fallopian tube357 jrECIIANlS.M OF DELIVERY. was congenital. It seems improbable that the development of one side of the uterus could have been the cause, inasmuch as the interior of the uterus was perfectly symmetrical, and the walls of equal thickness. Dr. MuUer ('AUgem. "Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1862) records a case of extra- uterine foetation, in which the ovum became enveloped in an inguinal hernia of the right side, so that the sac springing from the inguinal region formed a round tumour reaching to the knees, and weighed eight pounds. A mature living child was removed by operation. The mother died shortly after of internal haemorrhage. A post-mortem examination was not permitted. Dr. Simpson relates the following case for Prof. Simpson (' Ed. Med. Jour.,' Sept., 1863). The patient, set. 45, usually enjoying good health, had not been pregnant for twelve years, and suffered from severe pelvic pains. A sensitive tumour stretched across the pelvis, between the uterus and rectum, wanting some of the characters of pelvic abscess, but possessing most of those of a pelvic hsematoma. Suddenly the tumour greatly enlarged, and produced distressing and urgent symptoms. The author made an opening into the mass through the roof of the vagina. Several large, old, and recent coagula were discharged, and at last the foot of a small foetus projected; a slender, early, entire foetus, with the placenta, was extracted, and the patient recovered. Dr. Matthews Duncan exhibited to the Med.-Chir. Society of Edinburgh, June, 1863, a foetus nearly fully developed, but in an advanced stage of decomposition, which he had delivered per auum as a breech presentation. After the birth of the child the author passed his hand and arm per anura into the cyst, to examine it and remove its contents. In spite of this immense distension, the bowel recovered its function so quickly that six days after the operation the sphincter had completely regained its power ('Ed. Med. Jour.,' July, 1863). MECHANISM OP DELIVEEY. The following are the conclusions arrived at by M. Laborie, in a memoir " On the part which the symphysis pubis plays during the process of labour" ('Gaz. Hebdom.,' torn, ix. No. 34, 1862, and'Mon. f. Geb.,' May, 1863). (1) Almost all accoucheurs assume that the ligaments uniting the articulation of the pelvis become relaxed during pregnancy ; through this the joints attain a certain degree of mobility, the extent of which, however, is very indefinite. (2) All anatomists now place the sym- physis, sacro-iliac, and pubic, in the class of arthrodia. According, hovyever, to the author's observations in the pelves of recently delivered women, these joints belong to a special class of themselves; for while, by their opposing surfaces, which on the one bone are con- cave and on the other convex, they present the cliaracter of the enarthrodia, they also, by appearing only movable in one direction show their resemblance to the ginglymoid joints. (3) It is only when the child enters the true pelvis, and is fairly engaged in it, that the mobility of the symphysis exercises any influence upon the act of birth.REPORT ON MlDWIFERYj ETC. 358 (4) Heretlie principal resistance is met with in tbo transverse diameter; tlie pressure, however, exerted by tlie head of the child against the tube- rosities of the ischium is strong enough to effect a partial separation of the bones. This happens entirely according to the mechanical laws of the lever: the diHtanco between the sacro-iliac symphysis and the tube- rosity of tlio ischium represents the long arm of the lever; this distance is 138 millimetres (about 5 inches). Thus a separation of the symphysis to the extent of only 2 millimetres on its lower end permits to the external end of the lever—i. e., the transverse diameter—an increase of nearly 2 centimetres (about one seveutli of an inch), and this is probably even greater. (5) Inasmuch as in women above the age of thirty the mobility of tlie symphysis is altogether nil, or at least very limited, the difRculty of the birth concentrates itself in the true pelvis, and in these cases, notwithstanding the otherwise normal structure of this, delivery must be frequently terminated by the forceps. EETROVEBSION OP THE aUAVID TJTEBTJS. Two cases are recorded by Mr. Hardey (' Trans, of Obstet. Society of London,' vol. v., p. 267). In the first case, all the symptoms of reten- tion of urine occurred suddenly in a woman at the end of the fourth month, of pregnancy. An ovarian tumour of the left side had seriously obstructed the delivery of her first child, nine months previously, and now prevented the nterus rising out of the pelvis. The bladder was relieved, and the nterus found retroverted, with its fundus lying deep within the recto-vaginal pouch. Eeduction was effected by placing the patient on her knees and elbows, and making steady pressure on the fundus with the right hand in the vagina. The recumbent position was maintained for a fortnight, and, five months after, she was delivered of a child at the full term. Death took place fourteen days after delivery, from strangulation of the intestine by the neck of the ovarian tumour, which, with the small intestines, was found twisted round the left Fallo- pian tube. In the second case profuse hasmorrhage preceded the expul- sion of a large blighted ovum in a woman who believed herself to be at the full term of pregnancy. The uterus was found retroverted, and reposition was effected as in the first case. The author adds a third case, in which retroversion occurred -with partial prolapsus vaginaj two days after delivery, at the eighth month of pregnancy. The uterus was replaced as in the other two cases, and sponge-pessaries worn for some time. Dr. Dickie records a similar case in a young unmarried woman who suffered from difficulty in micturition. Menstruation had ceased three months. A week later, complete retention of urine occurred, and the uterus was found enlarged and retroverted. Eeduction was effected, after the bladder had been relieved, by placing the patient in the prone position, and making pressure on the fundus with two fingers in the rectum. The patient afterwards admitted that she had taken large doses of croton oil to procure abortion, and the tenesmus thus caused probably produced prolapse of the posterior wall of the vagina and retroversion of the uterus. ('Ed. Med. Jour.,' April, 1863.)359 ABORTION. ABOBTIOK. Dr. Storer, in a paper—the first of a series—entitled " Studies of Abortion" ('Boston Med. and Surg. Journal,' Feb., 186.3), urges tbat the same success maybe accomplished in the treatment of abortion, Avliich, during late years, has attended the treatment of all stages of labour at the full time. The causes of an immediately or secondarily fatal result of labour at the full period are few ; in abortion nearly every one of these is present, with the addition of others peculiar to the sudden and untimely interruption of a natural process and the death of the product of conception. He then dwells upon another and by no means unimportant element—a degree of mental disturbance, often profound, from disappointment or fear,—that to tbe same extent may be said to exist rarely in labours at the full period. It is extremely important that the nature of the abortion should be clearly under- stood, and that we should be able to distinguish between proximate and predisposing causes. " How different, for instance, the nature of abortions arising from mechanical violence, external or internal, from a general virus pervading the maternal or foetal system—from disease of the uterine walls, or of the placental tissue, or tbe acci- dental extravasation of blood between them—and how different sbould be the treatment, although so generally the same." In the diagnosis of abortion there is often much difficulty, for there is scarcely a phase of uterine or ovarian disease that may not simulate, or be simulated by, some form_of abortion; and there is scarcely one that may not induce, or be induced by, the same disturbance of gestation. The partially detached ovum has been mistaken for polypus, the expulsive contractions of the uterus for intestinal flatulence, the cachexia from retention of a dead and putrid foetus or membranes for malignant or other incurable disease. In the treatment, the duty of the practitioner is, in most cases, not—as is generally attempted—to complete the abnormal process as soon as possible, but to arrest it; for even in cases where the danger to the foetus appears most immi- nent, its life can be saved. If, however, the expulsion of the ovum be already effected, or be beyond prevention, the process should be thorouglily completed. An able exposition of the fallacy of statistics, in determining the com- parative infrequency of abortions, concludes the paper. Taking the same statistics from which Churchill and Clay argue that thei-e are more than sevcnty-eUjld labours at the full period to every abortion, the author shows, by a tabular statement, that while one observer, Madame la Chapelle, places the frequency of abortions as low'as one to every one hundred and eigldij-nine labours, another, Deubel, who was probably just as unbiassed, supposed it to be one to twelve, a difterence of over seventeenfold; while Churchill himself, though broadly stating the proportion to be one to seventy-eight labours, in reality had found it by his .own experience to be at least one to ever^ twenty-six labours. But putting aside the absence of any evident ratio, or law of increase or decrease, between the total number of cases presented and their respec-3G0 IIRPOIIT OX JIIDWirJillY, ETC. tive rate of proportion of special cases to their sums total; tlie writers referred to—as indeed, most others—have not separated premature births from abortions properly so called ; hence the impartiality of these statistics — compiled for an entirely dill'erent purpose — cannot be appealed to, and yet the conclusion drawn from such erroneous premisses has been, till now, suffered to remain uncliallenged. Dr. Alfred Hegar (Darmstadt) publishes a paper on " The Pathology of the Human Ovum, and on Abortion in the first months of Preg- nancy." This he believes to be of very frequent occurrence, not less than one abortion taking place to every eight or ten births at the full term. The author jjrotests against the too hasty manual extraction of the ovum, which induces irregular uterine action, and frequently gives rise to obstinate haemorrhage and much subsequent mischief. ('Mon. f. G-eb.,' supplementary vol., 1862.) Dr. Pritchard records a case of abortion produced on the fourth day after dilatation by tents of the Laminaria digitata (' Trans, of Obstet. Society of London,' vol. v, p. 198). Three cases of abortion, with pro- fuse hsemorrhage, are reported by Dr. llamsbothara ('Med, Times,' ii, 1863, p. 89). Dr. Matthews Duncan, " On some results of Imperfect Deliverance in Abortion or Labour, especially Fetid Uterine Discharges." ('Ed. Med. Jour.,' Jan., 1863.) Five cases are here recorded, all of which were marked by symptoms of uterine disease occurring after abortion or laboui-, local pain, puru- lent or hoemorrhagie discharges, occasional metrorrhagia, patency of the OS uteri, and hypertroiAy, or a state of imperfect involution of the uterus ; followed, after variable periods, by the expulsion or removal of portions of the decidual or ovuline structures. In two of the cases,—both of retention of the ovum,—no fetid discharge occurred for some weeks, in one case seven months, after all symptoms of pregnancy had disappeared; in two other cases the fetor—which was afterwards intense—was delayed until part of the decidual struc- tures had been retained five months. This absence of fetor, which renders such cases the less likely to be correctly diagnosed and treated, may be accounted for by the expulsion of the entire ovum, or part of it, without the decidua, or accompanied by only a portion of the latter structure. In such cases the remaining decidua may retain its uterine connections for an indefinite period, and then being thrown ofi" may be retained in utero, and at last become putrid. "When the cause of abortion is disease of the decidua, especially if there be hajmorrhage beneath it, or when uterine contraction is strong, then persistent adhe- sion and retention will be evidently less likely to occur than when the decidua is healthy and uterine contractions are feeble. It is generally believed that the retention of part of the fully developed placenta is rapidly followed by putridity ; but in one case mentioned by the author, the incomplete removal of the placenta,—part of which came away a month after delivery,—was not followed by fetor.IIYDATIDIFORJl OVUM. 3G1 DISEASES OF THE MOTHER IMPEDING DELIVERY. OK THE HTDATIDIFOBM OVTJM. The researches of Cruveilhier, Mettenheimer, Gierse, Paget, and Graily Hewitt, have shown that the disease formerly known as " hydatids of the uterus " is, in fact, not a disease of the uterus at all, but simply an hydatidiform degeneration of the ovum. " The little vesicular bodies, expelled singly from the uterus, or in series like beads, really result from certain alterations in the chorion villi, and are always the result of conception." (Graily Hewitt, 'Diseases of Women,' p. 74.) There is much difference of opinion as to the mode of origin of this vesicular degeneration of chorion. Mettenheimer and Paget believe it to bo a true cystic disease, caused by an abnormal development of the elementary cells, and that it is the cause of the death of the embryo; while others, and especially Gierse and Graily Hewitt, maintain that the vesicular bodies are the result of distension of the villi by serous effusion, and that the death of the embryo has preceded this degenera- tion. The latter theory affords a better explanation of the frequent absence or decomposed state of the embryo than the former. " In very few of the recorded cases of the disease was there any vestige of an embryo. Its absence would seem to be the rule, its presence the excep- tion." (Dr. M'Clintock, 'Diseases of Women,' p. 416.) The period of pregnancy at which the embryo dies materially affects the development of the disease. "If the death of the embryo occur very early, and before the appropriation of certain of the villi to form the foetal pla- centa has commenced, the ovum may continue to grow, and may remain in the cavity of the uterus, and in such a case the whole of the cho- rionic membrane would give rise to hydatidiform villi. If, on the other hand, the death of the embryo be postponed until the formation of the fujtal placenta has commenced, the hydatidiform degeneration will be necessarily limited to that part of the chorion which is in contact with the decidua serotina." (Hewitt, op. cit.) " The early history of these cases is that of pregnancy up to a certain period, when some of the ordinary symptoms of this state disappear and are replaced by others. Persistent vomiting, unusual hardness of the uterine tumour, vrith ita rapid increase and disproportionate size to the supposed duration of pregnancy, and irregular and sudden sero-sanguineous discharges, are the most reliable indications of the disease." (M'Clintock, op. cit., p. 393.) In the diagnosis from normal pregnancy, the absence of the fcetal heart sounds and of ballottement are the only two conditions which can be relied upon, since tlie placental soufile may be heard after the death of the embryo, and the mammary symptoms may be not much altered. Dr. M'Clintock records five cases of this disease in his work on 'Diseases of Women,' pp. 392—410. Dr. Moorhead publishes a case ('Lancet,' vol. i, 1863, p. 205), and Dr. Graily Hewitt records two cases ('Lancet,' vol. ii, 1862, p. 369, and ii, 1863, p. 699). All these cases are very similar. In each case a partial but incom- plete separation of the ovum was caused by an accident about the sixth week of pregnancy ; this was followed by rapid and dispro-362 REPOIIT ON MIDWIFERY. portionate eulargement of the uterus, and the subsequent expulsion of the hydatidiform mass after slight or severe hseniorrhage. From these and otlier cases wo may iufer that this degeneration of the chorion villi is most likely to happen after incomplete abortion about the sixth or eighth week of pregnancy. ABXOEMAL CONDITIOKS OF THE PELVIS. Dr. Olshausen, in a paper " On the Obliquely Distorted Pelvis, with Sacro-iliac Anchylosis" ('Mon. £ Geb.,' March, 1862, and 'Year-book,' 1862, p. 341), contests the opinion held by Simon Thomas, and Martin, that this distortion might arise from disease ending in anchylosis of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, and believes that Litzman's view is correct, which is that the anchylosis as well as the peculiar shape of the pelvis in these cases is due to the pressure upwards from the hip-joint on the affected side. Professor Thomas upholds his views in an essay (' Mon. f. Geb.,' Nov., 1862). Mr. Blair records a case of " Deformity of the Coccyx complicating Labour and causing Eecto-vaginal Pistula" ('Aus- tralian Med. Jour.,' Oct., 1862). Dr. G. Braun reports a series of cases in which labour was obstructed by immovable pelvic tumours. (' Wien. Med. Wochensch.,' xiii, 1863.) ABNOBMAL COKDITIONS OE THE TTTEEUS. M. Mattel, " On Complete Obliteration of the Os Uteri as a Cause of Difficult Labour" ('Brit. Med. Jour.' vol. ii, p. 401, 1862). The following is a summary of the views of the author, from a memoir on the above subject, founded on an analysis of forty-two cases. I. The complete occlusion of the cervix uteri, whether at its orifices or within its cavity, may be the result of local inflammatory action; but in the majority of cases (in nineteen out of thirty-one), it has been the result of the organization of the plastic plug which is found within the cervix during gestation. 2. This obliteration scarcely ever prevents the pregnancy reaching its full period, and sometimes even retards it. Examination alone reveals it at the time of labour. 3. The occlusion is generally (thirty-six times out of forty-two), sufficiently firm to resist the natural efforts, to such an extent, that the woman has, in some cases (three in forty-two), died undelivered. "Where interference has been tardy, the death of the child (in seven cases out of twenty-eight), and even the death of the mother (in two out of twenty-eight cases), have been the result. 4. When the obstacle has not been very resisting, the male or the female catheter has sufficed to overcome it; but when these do not succeed, the scissors or bistoury must be resorted to. ^. The bistoury has been in general preferred, but the liability to hffimorrhage, the danger of the angles of the wound enlarging beyond the point of incision, and the possibility of injuring the fcetal struc- tures, are objections to its employment. 6. The point of the grooved director, applied wdth force during the uterine contraction at the lowest part of the tumour, or, when it can be recognised, at the point occupied by the cervix, will eflect a passage through the tissues, and so (lyert the danger iuQident to the employment of the bistoury,PLUEAL BIRTHS. 3 Dr. Barnes, "A Case of Fibroid Tumour of the Uterus, which obstructed labour (' Trans, of Obstet. Soc. of London,' vol. v, 171). In this case the patient died from symptoms of rupture of the bladder during labour. A hard fibroid tumour was fomid in the lower part of the anterior wall of the uterus; this was jammed against the symphysis pubis by the pres- sure of the child's head, and so closed the urethra. Two lacerated openings were found in the bladder. Mr. Freeman, " A Case of Polypus Tlteri complicating Labour." ('Trans, of Obst. Soc. of London,' v, p. 42). "Without any previous symptoms, a large polypus appeared during labour, and protruded beyond the vulva, followed by the head of the child. Delivery was efl'ected without difficulty, and no hfemorrhage followed the expulsion of the placenta. Two days after delivery the polypus, weighing three and a half pounds, was removed by ligature, and the patient did well. PEOCIDENTIA OE THE GEATID TTTEEUS. Dr. Husty records a case of total procidentia of the gravid uterus ('Wien. Allg. Med. Zeitsch.,' 1862). The patient, a strong, well-built woman, set. 34, had suifered since her second labour from procidentia of the uterus. This could not be replaced in her fourth pregnancy, but was always supported by a bandage. "When taken in labour, the oa uteri was found swollen, dilated, and near the knees; the head of the child, Avhich was dead, was protruding. Reposition was easily effected, but the parts had to be supported to maintain them in situ. The head Avas then perforated, and labour completed with much difficulty. The child weighed nine pounds. The mother recovered, and bore two years later a healthy child, the uterus being maintained in the pelvis during preguancy by a bandage. PLUEAL BIETHS. The occurrence of twin birth with placenta prsevia has been thought rare. Cases in which this complication occurred are reported by Dr. Pardey ('Lancet,' vol. i, p. 53).—Version of first child; mother reco- vered, children born living, but premature. Dr. Ellis (ibid., i, p. 138). —Placenta expelled before delivery, version of both children, fatal result to both mother and children. Mr. Chambers (ibid., i, p. 313). Perfoi'ation of placenta, version, and recovery of both mother and children. The same patient had been delivered seventeen months pre- viously under precisely similar circumstances. Dr. Uvedale "West (ibid., i,p. 346).—One case of twin birth, with placenta praevia, and two cases of ante-partum ha)morrhage, with twins. In the first case delivery effected by version of both children, which were prematm-e, but born livino-. In the second case delivery natural, after rupture of the membranes • severe post-partum haemorrhage; both children born living. In the third case "first child, with breech presentation, delivered naturally ; version of second child from severe ante-partum hjemorrhage j both childreuEEPOET ON MIDWlFEIlTj ETC. born living. All tliree mothers recovered. Dr. West combats the opi- niou that turning in twin births with placenta prajvia, or with hajmor- rhage during labour, is dangerous, and liable to be followed by post- partum hfflmorrhage or collapse; and believes that these may generally be averted by delivering slowly, i. e., by making no traction al'ter the breech has reached the perinscum. ABNOEMAL PBESENTATIONS. Dr. Eamsbotham, "Clinical Midwifery" ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' vol. i, 1863, p. 4), relates seven cases of transverse presentation, which occurred in his practice during 1843 and 1844. In three of these cases turning was performed, and two of the children were born alive; in two cases evisceration was performed. In one case spontaneous evolution occurred ; the child dead. In another case the result is not stated. Of the mothers, five recovered, one died from gangrenous tubercle of the uterus. Of the children, two recovered and four died. The author dissents from the view held by Denman, that in cases of spon- taneous evolution the shoulder recedes into the uterus as the breech is expelled downwards, and is convinced that the shoulder does not recede, but is, on the contrary, thrust further and further externally in proportion as the breech descends into the pelvis. Dr. V. Hiiter, in a paper " On the Liberation of the Arms in Labours in which the Head is born last" ('Mon. f Geb.,' March, 1863), men- tions the various modes recommended by other authorities, and then describes his own mode of action. Grasping one or both thighs of the child, he makes traction downwards and forwards, turning them near the middle of the mother's abdomen, and so making the trunk revolve round the symphysis. The shoulder, which is most posterior, is thus lowered, and the elbow brought down within reach of the index and middle finger, and the arm libei'ated in the usual way. In order to liberate the second arm, the author adopts Von Eitgen's plan, which consists in giving a rotatory movement to the child on its long axis, the effect of which is to throw the arm across its breast. Professor Lazzati ('Annali Dniv. di Med.,' Aug., 1863, and 'B. and P. Med.-Chir. Eev.,' Oct., 1863) maintaius that in the so-called trans- verse presentations, when the arm or shoulder presents, the foetus really occupies an oblique position in the uterus. During the last three months of iitero-gestation, and especially during the eighth and ninth, the development of the foetus is such that the length of its occipito- coccygeal diameter exceeds that of the transverse or antero-posterior diameter of the uterus. The foetal occipito-coccygeal diameter is ten and a half to twelve inches. The longitudinal diameter of the uterus is twelve and a half to thirteen inches, while the greatest transverse diameter is only eight to ten inches; and the transverse diameter of the inferior segment only seven and a half inches. This being admitted, and all due allowance made for the variations in these measurements, for the flexibility of the body of the foetus.365 ABNORMAL PIlESENTATIO?< S. and for any yielding of the uterine walla, tlie fact still remains that the transverse and antero-posterior diameters of the uterus are shorter than the longitudinal diameter of the foetus. Hence it is impossible that the occipito-coccygeal diameter of the foetus can be in relation with these diameters of the uterus; and the longitu- dinal diameter of the foetus must, therefore, correspond more or less closely with the longitudinal diameter of the uterus; or, in other words, one or the other extremity of the occipito-coccygeal diameter—i. e. the head or the breech— must be in relation more or less exact with the inferior segment of the uterus, whilst tlie fundus must be more or less closely occupied by the opposite extremity of the foetus. Assuming this to be true, the author concludes that the terms transverse position and transverse presentatio}is are incorrect, but that all such are cases of co7isiderahle ohli^uity of the foetus. The head in such cases is placed in one of the iliac fossae, and on the corresponding part of the inferior segment of the uterus; the breech occupies the fundus, which is usually inclined laterally in the direction opposite to that which is occupied by the head. If this were not the case, in turning we should have to seek for the feet in one side of the uterus, where, as is well known, they are not to be found. The two cases recorded by the author are interesting. Case I.—A patient, set. 30, who had lost her first two children, the first after a natural labour, the second after turning on account of shoulder presentation, was seen by the author in the ninth month of her third pregnancy. The fundus of the uterus was strongly inclined to the right hypochondrium, where the small angular parts of the child and active movements were felt. The head lay to the left and below, cor- responding to the left iliac fossa. The back was felt directed forwards. A small angular body, which receded as soon as it was touched, could only be felt per vaginam ; no ballottement; the shoulder felt distinctly by passing the finger through the cervix. By applying his right hand upon the head in the left iliac fossa, and his left hand upon the nates in the right hypochondrium, and pressing in opposite directions, the author found he could bring the head over the pelvic brim, and therefore contrived a belt which should act in the same way. This consisted of a pad pressing inwards on the left iliac region, and another pressing inwards on the right hypochondrium, fitted with springs, and attached to a support worn on the back. This succeeded per- fectly, and the head was thus kept constantly over the pelvic brim. Labour set in a fortnight after, and the child was delivered naturally by the head. In the second case there was considerable obliquity of the foetus. The right shoulder in the left position ten days before labour, without being preceded by uterine contractions. The same belt was' applied, and the compression continued for four days. The child's head was brought over the pelvic brim on the second day, and there maintained. Delivery was natural and easy, the head presented in the first position, and the child was born alive. Dr. Pajot, in a memoir " On Presentations of the Trunk in Extreme Contractions of the Pelvis," relates five cases of extreme contraction of the pelvis ('Arch. (Jen. de Mdd.,' August, 1863). Of the first fourREPOUT ON MIDWIFBEYj EtC. 866 cases which ended fatally, the child was mature in three. In the fifth case the foetus was in the eightli month ; labour was induced, and ver- sion tried without success, although the arm was amputated; finally, craniotomy was performed. The following conclusions, the author- thinks, may be fairly drawn: i. If the child be alive, and at full term, if it present by the trunk in a contraction below six or seven centi- metres (about two and a quarter inches), turning by external manipu- lation having been tried for the purpose of facilitating the application of instruments, and found to be impossible, the Caesarean section is to be considered. 2. The foetus not being at term, and turning being found to be impossible, the amputation of the arm will certainly facilitate the manipulation for version; moreover, the section of the neck or of the trunk will be easily made by the author's mode, and the extraction of the foetus will not present insurmountable difficulties if it have not passed the seventh month. 3. If the child be dead, even at full time, whatever difficulties and dangers are presented by the series of operations necessary to deliver the woman by the natural passages, the Cassarean section will be absolutely rejected. After having applied the new mode of embryotomy, we should endeavour to break down successively the different foetal parts which present themselves at the brim by repeated cephalotripsy. Dr. Halahan, " On the Treatment of Prolapsed Funis" (' Dub. Quart. Jour.,' Aug., 1862). ProlajDsed pulsating funis, with head presenta- tions, generally occurs at the rupture of the membranes. From the records of the Dublin Lying-in Hospital, the funis prolapsed in 304 cases out of 51,061 patients, or about i in every 168. The mortality from the above reports, which include all cases of pro- lapse of the funis without regard to the presentation, was a little over 66 per cent.; but the author believes this to be about the average mor- tality in cases where the prolapse occurs at the rupture of the mem- branes with head presentations. Ten cases are related, in all of whicli reposition was attempted by carefully pushing up the funis above the brim of the pelvis. In a cases only did it again prolapse after reposi- tion, and when properly replaced, the author considers no artificial aid is necessary to keep it up. The prolapse occurred in the first stage of labour in 8 cases, and in the second stage in 2 cases. In all but 2 of the cases the membranes were ruptured at the time the prolapse was discovered. In 2 cases the forceps were applied, in i of which the mother died. Perforation in i case, and the remaining 7 left to nature. Nine of the mothers recovered and i died. Of the children, 7 were born alive and 3 dead. Dr. Lumley Earle condemns the practice of turning in prolapse of the funis, and advocates Sir Eichard Croft's method by which the cord is passed up to the fundus of the uterus, and then hooked over the highest part of the foBtus. Of 7 cases of prolapsed funis which he records, this plan was adopted with success in 3 cases; of the remaining 4, version was performed in a cases, and in the other a the cord wasDROPSY OP THE OVUM. 367 pushed up above the brim. Of the 4 children, 2 were born alive and 2 dead. The mothers did well in all 7 cases. (' Med. Times,' ii, 1863, p. 642.) DISEASES^ ETC., OF THE CHILD IMPEDING DELIVERY. DROPSY OP THE OVUM. Dr. McClintock, on "Dropsy of the Ovum," 'Dub. Quart. Jour.,' Feb., 1863, p. 188. AYe know little of the pathology of this condition, or of tlie special conditions which give rise to it. No disease of the amniotic membrane has been found, although many cases have been carefully examined. In a few exceptional cases the amnion was only partially opaque and thickened. That the disease does not depend upon a dropsical diathesis of the woman, is shown by the fact that these patients are often free from general dropsy, and that in many patients affected with general dropsy at the time of delivery there is yet no abnormal increase of the amniotic fluid. In the case of a woman preg- nant with twins, the amnion of one child only is generally affected, and this ia generally that of the second-born twin. Of 11 twin cases in which the disease was present, in all it was confined to a single amnion, and in 9 cases it was the amnion of the second twin. The dropsy being confined to one ovum points to the cause as local. That the foetus of the dropsical bag of membranes should be the last expelled is probably due to its gi'eater mobility. The disease is more common in multi- parae than in primiparae. Of 33 cases noted by the author, only 5 were primiparae. The rapid development of the disease, which is very marked in many cases, affords some clue to the diagnosis. It is con- stantly associated -with abortive ova, and the author believes, with the late Dr. Eetzius, that it is a very frequent cause of the early death and expulsion of the embryo. Of the 33 cases 1 ended in abortion at the fifth month and i at the sixth mouth, 12 resulted in premature expul- sion of the foetus, and in the remainder the child seemed to have reached the ninth month. Of the 33 cases, 4 resulted in the death of the mother—I from rupture of the uterus, the child being hydroce- phalic ; another from puerperal fever, at tliat time epidemic; and 2 from " debility and prostration ;" each of tlie latter had been con- fined of twins, and was in a broken-down state of health at the time of delivery. Of the 29 women who recovered, 3 had smart attacks of metritis after delivery. Of the children, 9 were born dead, and 5 of these were iu a putrid condition; and of those born alive, 10 died within a few hours after birtli. It occurred more frequently with female than with male children, in the proportion of 25 of the former to 8 of the latter. The presentation was noted in 31 cases. Of these, the head presented in 20, the pelvis in 9, and the upper extremity in I. With regard to the diagnosis, the expanded state of the cervix the extreme tension of the lower segment of the uterus, or of the mem^ branes, if the os be open, and the ease with which tlie child can be dis- placed, are all corroborative symptoms of the ovum being dropsical." The author knows of no treatment capable of arresting the secretion of the liquor amuii, or of causing its absorption when secreted to an368 llEPOHT ON MIDWIPERY, ETC. excessive amount. Puncture of the membranes should be performed ■when the distension of the uterus becomes enormous, even though labour may yet seem distant. If only a portion of the fluid could be drawn off, perhaps labour would not immediately follow, and great relief would accrue to the patient, who might thus be carried forward in her. pregnancy. The three following classes of facts will help to illustrate the functions of the amnion:—(i) Cases of plural births are occasionally met Avith in which one foetus having been blighted, the fluid contents of its, enveloping amnion have disappeared; this the author would attribute to its absorption by the membrane itself. (2) Cases occur in which the liquor amuii presents a very altered appearance, all its sensible charac- ters being changed, and instead of being transparent, thin, and inodo- rous, it is thick, turbid, and fetid. This is an instance of perverted secretion. (3) The quantity of the secretion may be enormously in- creased, or may be speedily replaced if it come away. These facts all concur in strengthening the analogy between the amnion and serous membranes, by showing that it can, under certain circumstances, in- crease, absorb, or alter its proper secretion. The author thus sums up his views :—(i) Dropsy of the ovum certainly does not depend on any dropsical diathesis of the woman. (2) It may occur quite independently of any dropsical condition of the foetus. (3) It is not constantly associated with any morbid condition of the mem- branes or placenta. (4) Nor has it any special relation with any ab- normal condition of the foetus. (5) That the cause is purely local may be inferred from the fact, frequently observed, that in plural pregnan- cies, where the disease existed, it was confixied, in every instance, to one ovum only. (6) It has probably no connection with syphilis. In only one of the author's cases Avas the woman so aiFected. (7) The mother's recovery is afifected by the disease. Of the 33 cases, 4 died, and putting aside two of these as resulting frpm accidental causes ; viz., rupture of the uterus and epidemic puerperal fever, the mortality still remains 6*45 per cent. Dr. Braxton Hicks relates three cases in which labour was obstructed by abnormal conditions of the foetus (' Trans, of Obstet. Society of London,'vol. v, p. 285). _ . ^ • ^^i, , In the first case delivery was impeded by great distension ol the aD- domen of the foetus by ascites. Chloroform was given, and the parietes of the child punctured with the crotchet; about two quarts of fluid in- stantly escaped, and rapid expulsion of the child followed. The pla- centa was very large, ragged, and pulpy; on removal, it was found that the whole of the villi wanted cohesion. The author suggests that this condition arose from oedema of the placenta, and this view is supported by the fact that before the membranes broke a considerable quantity ot bloody serum escaped. Both of the child's ureters were completely occluded near the bladder, for one third of their length ; above this point they began to be distended till they reached the kidneys, the pelves of which, on both sides, were distended into cysts, having on one side aDUOPSY OF Tini; OVUM. 369 diameter of three and on tlie other of two inches. The diagnosis of ascites in the foetus before labout is difficult, and very liable to be mistaken for dropsy of the amnion. The second case was very similar. Enormous distension of the foetal bladder was here the cause of the ob- struction. In the third case there was immense distension of the uterus from dropsy of the amnion. The whole appearance of the abdomen closely simulated ovarian dropsy complicated with pregnancy, especially from there being a slight oblique depression between the middle and lower third of the tumour. Premature labour was induced at the seventh month by puncturing the membranes, upon which about three gallons^ of fluid escaped. When labour fairly set in, another bag, apparently of membranes, presented, and obstructed delivery ; this proved to be a large fluctuating tumour, situated on the neck, tongue, and face of the foetus, after puncture of which labour terminated naturally. The mothers in all three cases did well. Hirsch (' Wiirzb. Medic. Zeitschr.,' Band iii. Heft 6) records the fol- lowing case:—The first symptoms of pregnancy appeared in a woman £et. 38, in March, 1861. In July the uterus could be felt between the um- bilicus and the pubes. A thin serous fluid exuded from the breasts. Aa labour did not come on in December, the author was summoned to examine the patient, and found her at the full term of a normal preg- nancy. Within the uterus, which extended to the epigastrium, the fcetal movements could be distinctly felt. A progressive increase of the circumference of the abdomen occurred during the next five months, without the patient's health being affected. At the end of May, after a supposed pregnancy of fifteen months, feeble labour pains came on, with draining away of the liquor amnii, eftecting, after three days, the complete dilatation of the os uteri. Unsuccessful attempts were now made to extract the head by the forceps. The author, now consulted, found the head movable at the entrance of the pelvis, with an opening in the skull half an inch in diameter. Proceeding to turn by the feet, the hand was ai-rested by a large, round, fluctuating tumour. The child was delivered by traction on the head, with the fingers introduced into the cavity of the skull; it weighed eight pounds, and was fully developed. In detaching the placenta the tumour was found attached to the fundus of the uterus. The patient died ex- hausted, a few hours after delivery. No post-mortem was permitted ; but the tumour, which after death partly protruded through the vulva, was found to be as large as a man's head. Its external segment pre- sented a smooth, firm, serous surface ; and on cutting through its fleshy wall about half an inch thick, a large quantity of pale, serous fluid escaped, containing coagula, and a few shrunken, fleshy parts, resembling the rudiments of an embryo. The author supposes that, after tiie degeneration of the first impregnated ovum, and partial inter- growth of this with the substance of the uterus, a second conception had occurred, and the further development of tlie mole advanced with the normal development of the second impregnated ovum. 21UEPOllT ON MIDWIFERYj ETC. 870 HJEMOKKIIAGE BErOBE, DUHING, OE AriEIl DELIYEIIY. Dr. Kamsbotham relates five cases of severe post-partum hacinor- rage (" Cliuical Midwifery;" 'Med, Times,' ii, 1863, pp. 245, 431). A largo fibroid tumour imbedded iu the posterior wall of the uterus, and preventing its perfect contraction, complicated one case, and in another, the only fatal case, the placenta was adherent to a large polypus attached to the fundus of the uterus. The author remarks that in most of tlie cases whicli he has seen of coexisting pregnancy and iutra- uteriue polypus, although hajmorrhage might have occurred before conception, this has been either entirely suspended or greatly lessened during utero-gestation. The case, however, now recorded was an ex- ception to this rule, since the haemorrbage increased after impregnation, probably from the placental attachment to the polypus. In relatingeight cases of adherent placenta (ibid.),the author states that Lis own practice is to remove the placenta at once if dangerous hsemor- rhage occur, and never to wait longer than an hour or an hour and a half if there be no flooding. If part of the placenta be left, the hand should be again introduced, and all removed, since the patient cannot be free from danger so long as any part of the placenta be retained in utero. In one case, here related, profuse hsemorrhage occurred from the placentae of twins at three months being retained six weeks after the miscarriage. In all the cases the mothers recovered. PLACENTA PBiEVIA, Dr. Murpby records a case of placenta praevia, with detacbment of the placenta before the birth of the child ('Dub. Quart. Jour.,' May, 1863, p. 472). The hcBniorrhage ceased at once. From ten to fifteen minutes were occupied iu the operation. Version Avas then performed, and thougb the cbild did not at first breathe, respiration was gradually established, and botb mother and child did well. Dr. W. H. Moor relates a case ('Med. Times aud Gaz.,' vol. i, 1863, p. 532) iu which he separated the placenta from the sides aud front of the os, and plugged this with the detached portions of the placenta aud the unruptured mem- branes. Hsemorrhage ceased at once. Brandy aud ergot were given, the labour terminated naturally, and the mother made a good recovery. The child, a seven months' one, was stillborn, but was restored by artificial respiration, and did well. About a third of the placenta was found to have been separated from its attachment to the uterus. Dr. G-. Clendinning records four cases ('Australian Med. Journal,' July, 1863). In the first three delivery was effected by version. Two'of the mothers and one of the children recovered. In the fourth case with the patient almost pulseless — after the removal of the detacbed placenta, which partly protruded through the full dilated os, delivery was effected by the long forceps, and the mother did well. The child had been dead some time. ,„/,,t c Dr. C. Pfeiffer, in a paper on " Crushing the Placenta ( Mou. t. Geburt' Sept., 1863), comments on the little value to be attached to871 ILEJrOEEHAGE TRANSFUSION. the statistics of lying-in hospitals in determining the comparative frequency of cases of placenta prteria, since these are much more com- monly met with in multipart than in primiparse, whereas the latter class form a large proportion of all the patients in lying-in institutions. Tlie author thinks that this condition occurs at least twice as frequently as is represented in hospitals, and, from his own observations, finds the actual proportion to be about i to every 250 or 300 cases. While admitting the value of Dr. Barnes's plan of separating all that portion of the placenta which adheres to the cervical zone of the uterus, the author maintains that the haemorrhage is arrested, not by the normal contraction of the uterus, but by the crushing or contusion to which the placenta and mouth of the womb are subjected by this process. The author's mode of practice—which seems entirely based on the hy pothesis that the hjemorrliage arises only from the placenta—consists in intro- ducing one or two fingers into the cervix, between the placenta and the uterus, and crushing the former as much as possible, while the uterine wall is lightly pressed. By this means, the haemorrhage ceases at once, according to the author, and does not return again in the course of the labour, whether delivery is efiected naturally or artifici- ally, quickly or slowly, and the result is said to be most favorable to both mother and child. Dr. "Williams records a case in which the placenta was found par- tially detached and lying in the vagina, with profuse haemorrhage. The placenta was removed, and haemorrhage ceased at once; the child was delivered naturally two hours after, and the mother recovered well. ('Med. Times,' ii, 1865, p. 214.) Prof Schule, in some remarks on the management of the placenta, based on 300 observations, explains the method practised in the clinical institution. This method is virtually the same as that long practised at the Dublin Lying-in Hospital, but seems to have been hitherto little known in Germany until Crede and Spiegelberg referred to it. Im- mediately after the expulsion of the head of the child the right hand is laid on the mother's abdomen, over the fundus of the uterus, and, with slight pressure, made to follow this down as it gradually empties itself. If the placenta should not be expelled after waiting ten or fifteen minutes, the fundus of the uterus should be firmly grasped— without any kneading or rubbing—and pressure made directly back- wards, when the placenta, in the great majority of cases, will be found to have passed into the vagina, or even be expelled beyond the vulva. In all the 300 cases noted by the author the above method was practised with the best results. All the placentae, without exception, were per- fect, and had no trace of any separation or rupture, and the membranes were in all cases perfect. HJEMOBRHA&E—TEANSrUSION. Dr. Braxton Hicks records two cases of transfusion (' Lancet,' vol. i, 1863, p. 265). In the first case the woman, in whom there was no history of syphilis, had had six children, and with the last fourREPOnT ON MIDWIFEUY, KTC. 372 there had been adherent placenta. Immediately after natural delivery profuse hajmorrhage occurred from adliesiou of the placenta; this was carefully removed, and the viterus contracted well. Half an hour after, jactitation and collapse came on, and, as a last resource, the author de- termined on transfusion. Assisted by the resident clerks, Dr. Hicks injected, at three instalments, about six ounces of the husband's blood, ■which was all that could be obtained. She rallied for a short time; but another attempt to procure more blood failing, she sank two hours after delivery. The second case was that of an ill-fed Irishwoman, jet. 3 8, mother of six children, who was attacked with immense hasmorrhage at the full term, and was A'ery shortly in a state of collapse. The membranes were ruptured, and as the os gradually dilated she improved, but when fully dilated the pulse suddenly flagged. Transfusion from the husband was accomplished with difficulty, and about six ounces were injected. The pulse, before scarcely perceptible, could now be plainly felt, the jactita- tion ceased, respiration improved, and the voice became stronger. Dr. Hicks now with great ease performed bimanual Aversion. The child was dead, and the placenta almost entirely detached. The uterus failed to contract, and in spite of the most unremitting support by stimulants, she sank before a second attempt at transfusion could be made. In both cases the funnel-and-syringe apparatus was used. Mr. Thorne reports a case ('Lancet,' i, 1863, p. 266). In a few minutes after premature delivery of a dead child symptoms of internal haemorrhage appeared, and pressure over the uterus was followed by profuse haemorrhage. The placenta, now found nearly entirely adherent, was at once detached, and firm pressure made over the uterus, when all haemorrhage ceased; the patient, however, was nearly pulseless, and in spite of free stimulation, became rapidly worse. Respiration twice ceased, but was restored by artificial means. Transfusion was now performed, but, owing to the loss of some blood, and the woman fainting from whom the blood was drawn, only about two ounces were injected into the patient's median cephalic vein; this, however, seemed just sufficient to stimulate the heart to renewed action, for immediately before the operation the pulse at the radial could scarcely be detected, whereas in ten minutes after, the pulsations of the temporal were very distinct. During the next six hours she had two injections of hot brandy and beef tea, and after this she was fed every quarter or half hour during the next forty-eight hours. All symptoms of reaction soon passed off; she was kept for ten days on strong fluid nourishment, and recovered well. An interesting case of Transfusion for the relief of anaemia consequent on repeated attacks of uterine hemorrhage is recorded by Dr. Braun ('Wien. Wochensch.,' 1863, No. 21). The patient, aet. 45, miscarried in August, 1862, and suffered from such severe metrorrhagia, from that time up to April, 1863, that her life became in most imminent danger from extreme ana;mia. Dr. Braun therefore performed transfusion on April 22nd, and the result was most satisfactory. Scarcely an ounce of blood was injected when the patient, who had before been most ex- hausted, recovered some of her colour, and declared herself better, and373 H.KMORRHAGE—TRANSFUSION. the pulse at once became full and strong. She rapidly improved, and a week after the operation seemed quite well. Dr. Lumley Earle believes that distension of the bladder is not an un- freqiient cause of primary post-partum hajraorrhage, and urges that the catheter should be used 'in all cases where great and unusual suflering exists, Avith disproportionate severity of the pain to the progress of labour. (' Trans, of Obst. Soc. of London,' vol. v, p. 294) Dr. Grraily Hewitt, " On the Operation of Transfusion m Obstetric Practice" (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' ii, 1863, p. 232). Taking the reports of the Eegistrar-General for several years, the author finds that the number of deaths in England and Wales from accidents during childbirth average nine per diem, and of these at least one is caused by bsemorrhage. In many of these cases all remedies short of transfusion will fail, and it is, therefore, the more remarkable that the operation is not more frequently practised. The author answers the objections urged against the operation, and thinks that the obstacles to its more general adoption arise from (i) a disbelief in its eflBcaey, (2) the difficulty of deciding on the indications, or (3) the difficulty in its performance. Under the first head the author cites Prof. Martin's series of cases.* Of 57 cases collected by this author, 43 were successful. In 7 of the unsuccessful cases, however, death occurred some days later from return of haemorrhage, or from phlebitis, which gives a mortality of only 7 in 50, or B>6 j)er cent, recoveries. (2) The indications for the operation are absence of power to swallow, with the symptoms of collapse, and especially if to these be added dyspnoea, jactitation, and convulsions. In the great majority of cases, where the patient is able to swallow, recovery will follow the free administration of stimulants. In two cases mentioned by the author more than thirty ounces of brandy were given in less than two hours, with a successful result in both cases. Absence of pulsation at the wrist appears to be, taken alone, one of the most positive indications for the operation; but it does not follow that because pulsation is felt the operation is not required ; and extreme feebleness, combined with greatrapidity of the pulse, is, in some cases, as strongly indicative of the necessity for the operation as its complete absence in other cases. The operation is not indicated unless the hae- morrhage and the tendency to it have ceased. The exceptions to this rule are cases like Dr. "Waller's, in which placenta praevia existed, and the patient was so much exhausted from loss of blood that the attempt to deliver her would probably have been fatal. Here transfusion was performed in order to enable the patient to bear further manipulation. But there are some cases of post-partum hsemorrhage in which this seems to defy all attempts at arrest; and here, unless the hcemorrhage be stopped, transfusion is useless. In these obstinate cases the author has found Dr. Hamilton's plan successful. The uterus is closely compressed between the two hands, one hand being in the vagina, aud the other grasping the uterus from above, and this compression maintained for some time. (3) The difficulties in the performance of the operation are carefully * ' Ueber die Transfusion tei Blutungen Neuentbundener,' Berlin, 1859.kepout om midwifery, etc. 374 considered, aud simplified by a convenient apparatus, invented and de- scribed by the author. Dr. Hewitt thinks that pure blood should be used, and cites Dr. Browu-Sequard's statement, that the introduction of defibrinated blood has, in animals, induced sudden coagulation of the blood and death. The opposite opinion, however, is held by Bischoff, and in an interesting case recorded by Prof. Nussbaum (' Baier lut PI.,' No. ix, 1862, and 'Year-book,' 1862, p. 253) transfusion was suc- cessfully performed with defibrinated blood. Dr. Hewitt insists on the importance of previously arranging all the steps of the operation, aud gives minute directions for its performance, especially urging the avoidance of all delay, and the prevention, as far as possible, of exposure of the blood to the air. RTTPTTJEE OF THE TTTEEUS. Spontaneous rupture of the uterus only occurred 11 times in .59,859 cases of delivery at the large Maternity Hospital at Paris, or once in 5441 cases (Casper 'Porensic Med.,' vol. iii, p. 401). A case is recorded by Heer (' Preuss. Med. Zeit.,' 1862, No. 31). The patient, from her suffering in a long, protracted labour, requested to be taken into the Lying-in Hospital at Oppeln, for the purpose of being delivered. Here she arrived in great agony, after nearly two hours' drive in a bad carriage, by night. On admission she was pale, pulseless, Avith cold extremities, the body covered with a clammy sweat; the contour of the uterus could not be felt, while the parts of the child could be very dis- -tinctly recognised, and labour pains had ceased. She died directly after she had been put into bed, and before even any examination could be made. The forceps were at once applied, and a dead child extracted without difficulty ; profuse haemorrhage followed. Post-mortem, the an- terior wall of the uterus was found raptured to the extent of about five inches.—Hugenberger relates three cases ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeit.,'1862, Heft 16). Case i.—In a well-formed multipara, after three days' labour, and the escape of the liqxior amnii, the child's face was found presenting at the brim. Pour hours after admission into the hospital the woman died suddenly, with sudden and great distension of the abdomen. After a fruitless attempt at extraction by the forceps, the dead child, whose long diameter of the head was nearly five inches, was removed by the Caesarean section from the apparently unruptured uterus; but during the operation between two and three pounds of blood escaped from the abdominal cavity, and post-mortem, a rupture to the extent of about three fifths of an inch, with friable edges, was found in the posterior wall of the uterus, corresponding to the promon- - tory of the sacrum. Case 2.—Here the rupture was occasioned by a fall upon the edge of a table, the foetus passed into the cavity of the abdomen, and the woman died on the spot. Case 3.—In a third case the rupture occurred with the simultaneous passage of the child into the abdomen. The child Avas delivered through the rent thus made, and both mother and child recovered.—Three cases are also related by Niemann ('Ilenke's Zeitschr. £ d. Staats.,'. 1862, Heft 4). C^ase I.—After an easy labour and natural delivery, the placentaOPERATIONS IN MIDAVIFERY. 375 was retained four days, and a rupture of the posterior wall of the uterus, "several inches long," occurred, through which a convolu- tion of intestine had passed. During the fruitless attempts to detach the placenta the intestines protruded en masse. Vain attempts having heen made to replace them, they were cut oflFwith a pair of scissors! The patient died thirty-eight hours after. The thickness of the uterine wall, near the seat of rupture, was found, after death, diminished from half an inch to two lines. In another case, a short time after the natural birth of a child, a midwife introduced her hand into the vagina, in order to remove the placenta, tore off the funis, and, after the woman had uttered a loud scream, brought away a convolution of intestines, of which part of the large intestine was torn off. Three days after, the jjatient died. After death a large rent of the uterus was found at its junction with the vagina. The muscular tissue w^as firm and normal in structure.—Dr. Olshausen publishes a paper on ruptures of the uterus, and especiaUy on that form of rupture which results from prolonged kneading and compression ('Mon. f. Geb.,' October, 1862). LACERATION OP THE PEEINiETTM. Mr. Biyant records three cases, with successful operation in each ('Lancet,' ii, 1863, p. 702). Dr. C. Ricketts recommends the adoption of the following plan in forceps cases. When the forceps have been applied, and the head of the child has been brought down so low on the perinasum that the forefinger, introduced into the rectum, can reach, in occipito- anterior presentations, beyond the frontal eminence, the instrument should be withdrawn, or all traction discontinued, and the finger, still retained in the rectum, should be used like the vectis, pressure being made with it on the forehead, upper jaw, and chin, as these parts can be felt. The head is thus made to rotate in the axis of the outlet, and being directed forwards under the pubes, its pressure on the perinseura is greatly relieved. (' Med. Times and G-az.,' i, 1863, p. 415.) OPERATIONS IN MIDWIFERY. ON THE INDUCTION 01? PREMATURE LABOUR. Dr. Storer, of Boston, in a pamphlet * On Artificial Dilatation of the Os and Cervix Uteri by T?luid Pressure from above; a reply to Drs. Keiller of Edinburgh and Arnott and Barnes of London,' gives are^sume of the history of all the methods employed for dilating the os uteri. Putting aside the measures of Hiiter and Braun for inducing premature labour by dilatation of the vagina, it is to Arnott and Qariel that belongs the credit of first suggesting the possibility of dilating the cervix by fluid pressure from heloio; while in dilating the uterus by fluid pressure from above, although the author's instrument was already prepared for the purpose, Dr. Keiller really anticipated him by a few days in actual practice. 4-S regards priority of publicjv-376 IJJiPOllT ON MIDWIl'KRY, ETC. tion, however, Mr. Jurdine Murray forestalled both. To Dr. Barnes belouga the merit of forcibly prosentiug tlie subject to the pro- fession at a later date, of eudeavoiiring by modification of the lirsfc instruments to perfect one for practice, and of adopting tlie author's proposal of water as the dilating medium. The author, after referring to the value of elm-tents, which he first introduced to the profession ('Assoc. Med. Journ.,' May, 1855, p. 446), and which he thinks greatly superior to sponge, in those cases wliere a slow and moderate action is desired, as in mechanical dysmenorrhea and certain forms of sterility, remarks :—" There is no doubt tliat in the induction of premature labour by the injection of water between the membranes and the uterine wall, after the method of Schweighauser and Cohen, there is some liability of effecting an unfavorable change in the presentation of the child, as in two cases related by Dr. Priestley, and of inducing haemorrhage by partial separation of the placenta. It is also possible, as in two cases related by Dr. Simpson, that rupture of the uterus, from exoessive distension, may thus be pi'oduced." These objections do not, however, apply to the author's mode, since the extent of separation of the membranes, of dilatation of the cervix, and of distension of the uterus, by the enclosing sac which he has proposed, can be perfectly controlled.* Dr. Kobert Lee advised the induction of premature labour in a lady suffering from disease of the retina and albuminuria. This was not at once adopted, but after a short time a convulsion occurred, and it was then determined not to delay the operation. Amaurosis, albuminuria and csdema of the face were now present. The membranes were punctured, labour ensued, and a dead foetus of four months was expelled. After this the albumen gradually diminished and vision improved. The particulars of an analogous case are added. (' Med.- Chir. Trans.,' vol. xlvi, 1863.) Dr. Barnes records a case of induction of laljour by his method at the eighth month of pregnancy. Incessant vomiting had persisted from the commencement of pregnancy, and she had suffered from haematemesis and menorrhagia. Examination revealed a nodular induration of the cervix. Labour was induced and delivery of a living child effected in less than four hours. (' Lancet,' vol. i, 1863, p. 10.) Prof. Giordano, of Turin (' Omodei's Annali,' vol. clxxxii, p. 407), states that premature labour may be much more effectually induced by the application of the solid nitrate of silver to the cervix uteri than by any other mode. Having introduced it within the cervix, he imparts to it slight, but repeated, rotatory movements, in order to thoroughly cauterize most of the internal surface. "While most of the other plans proposed are difficult, inoperative, or even dangerous, this mode is easy of execution, prompt and complete in its results, and is followed by no ill consequences. A case is related in which cauterization was per- formed, on account of deformed pelvis, at 9 a.m. on one day, and the fcetus was expelled at 8 a.m. tbe following morning, and tlie placenta followed in an hour afterwards. * For a description of tlie caoutchouc bags introduced, nnd employed by Dr. Barnes, see ' Year-book' for 1862, p. 355.OPERATIONS IN MIDWIFERY, 877 Scanzoni ('Lehrbucli der GeburtsliUlfe,' p. 730), on the authority of Marians, Ritgen, Stolz, and Kiwisch, states that "artificial labour should be employed when tlie dimension of the conjugate diameter of the brim is abnormally small," and minutely indicates the time for per- forming the operation by the following schedule. Inclica. Lines. Wlipn the sacro-pubic diameter is 2 and 6 or 7, induce liibonr at 30th week. 31st „ 32nd „ a 3^(1 „ .?3rd „ 34th 3Sth „ 36th „ Scanzoni remarks that the necessity for inducing premature delivery niay be argued from the fatality resulting to the childi-en previously born, whether caused by compression of their heads when excessive in volume or by a contraction of the pelvis ; this is conditional, however, as a subsequent child might be smaller, and with ease and safety pass through a diameter of three inches or three and three quarters of an inch. FORCEPS. Dr. J. Cronyn, " Report of Cases of Delivery by the Forceps in the Rotunda Lying-in Hospital, from June ist, 1862, to April ist, 1863" ('Dublin Quart. Jour.,'-Nov., 1863). During the above period the forceps were applied in 26 cases out of 856 patients delivered in the hospital, being a little more than 3 per cent. Results to the mothers and children :—In 17 cases loth were saved and in i both were lost; in 5 cases the mother died and the children were saved; in 3 cases the mothers recovered and the children were lost. Seventeen of the number were primiparse; 5 in labour of the second child, i of the third, 2 of the sixth, and i of the seventh. Of the 26 cases, in 18 the forceps were applied for inertia, in 6 for disproportion, and in 2 for convulsions. Of the 6 mothers who died, 2 were from uterine phlebitis, 2 from metro-peritonitis, i from peritonitis and pneumonia, and I from puerperal scarlatina. Of the children, 6 were stillborn, and in 4 cases the foetal heart was inaudible. In addition to these 26 cases, the forceps were ineffectually applied in 3 other cases, in which craniotomy was afterwards resorted to. Dr. Murphy, ('Dublin Quart. Jour.,' May, 1863,) endeavours to determine the vexed question as to whether the maternal mortality is les- sened by the employment of the forceps. This he does by comparing the results where the forceps had been used to conclude labour and where it had been allowed to proceed in a protracted course and terminate without assistance. Eor this purpose, three reports of the Dublin Lying-in Hospital are analysed, which are especially valuable, since they give the results of opposite modes of practice under the same cir- cumstances. The following are the total results of these reports, by Dr. Collins, Drs. Hardy and McClintock, and Drs. Johnston 'and I) )> » II )> " 2 „ 8 or 9 2 „ 10 or II 3 — 3 » I 3 « 2 01' 3 3 » 4 or s 3 „ S or 6878 EEPOET ON MIDWIFERY. Sinclair:—The total number of cases was 3 7,036. Of these, 742 women, having labour protracted beyond twenty-four hours, were delivered with- out aid; 46 died, being nearly i to 16; of the children, 162 were lost, being i to 4*6. The women delivered by the forceps were 248, and of these, 20 died, or i in i2'4; 50 children delivered by the forceps were lost, or about I in ^. So far, therefore, as the general results are concerned, the maternal mortality in protracted labour will bear comparison with that where the forceps were employed. In both instances the maternal mortality is higher than the average, because it was impossible to sepa- rate the cases of puerperal fever from ordinary labours. To place the question, however, in the clearest light, the practice of Dr. Collins, who only used the forceps once in 694 cases, may be compared with that of Dr. Shekleton (Johnston and Sinclair's report), who used them once in 68f cases. Both were in charge of the same hospital and of similar cases. The deaths of mothers delivered without forceps, in pro- tracted labours, were i in 16 (Dr. Collins's report). The deaths of mothers delivered with the forceps were i in 18 ('Drs. Johnston and Sinclair's Report). If this difference on the one side be compared with that on the opposite—i in t2'4—from the total results, it may be said to disappear; proving that in cases of difficult labour, which are of necessity protracted, mere duration does not increase the mortality. Prom the fairest review of statistics which the author can make, he shows that in difficult labours, where so much judgment is required, there is no essential difference in the maternal mortality whether the forceps be used or not. The deaths of the children are also alike, being about I in 5 cases. Dr. Barnes, in a paper " On the Midwifery Forceps " (' Lancet,' vol. ii, 1862, p. 31), points out the objections to the short straight forceps. ' The instrument by which Dr. Barnes proposes to remedy its defects is similar to, but less powerful than, Mie French forceps of Dubois and Pajot, and resembles that of Mr. Eoberton, of Manchester, with these advantages—that it is equally adapted for application at the brim, cavity, or outlet, and that it diminishes the risk of laceration of the perinaeum.—Dr. Gayton proposes to secure the handles of the forceps during delivery by joining them on the rack-and-spring principle ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' vol. h, 1863, p. 218). The following is an abstract of a memoir by Dr. J. Braxton Hicks, " On Combined External and Internal Version" (' Trans, of Obstetrical Society of London,' vol. v, pp. 219—259): _ p , , , ^, Dntil within the last few years, in effecting version of the child, the whole hand was introduced into the uterus, in order to seize the part to be brought down. The unavoidable delay occasioned by this mode of practice, and the suffering often induced by it, proved in many cases ffrave objections to its employment. Dr. Collins and Dr. E. Lee lave pointed out that in some cases of transverse presentation it is not 'necessary to pass more than two fingers into the os uteri in order to879 TUBNING. seize the knee. But in Germany it has been shown for some years past by "Wigand, Mattei, Stoltz, Martin, and Carl Esterle, that it is possible to rectify entirely from the outside abnormal positions of the foetus, and by the last two professors it has been employed in many cases. But Carl Esterle seems to have principally adopted this method some weeks before labour was expected, and Martin insists in its use— ist, that immediate delivery be not called for ; 2nd, that there be a capa- cious pehas; 3rd, no active pains; and 4th, that the child be living. Now, it is evident that these conditions cannot be granted if we wish to practise this method in the midst of labour or in urgent cases. In- debted, then, to the Germans for the discovery of the mobility of the foetus from the outside, and to our own countrymen for the plan of pushing on the child by one or two fingers through the os, the author proceeds to show how, by the simultaneous application of these two plans, each acting upon opposite ends of the foetus, a degree of certainty aud celerity may be obtained, of which each alone is entirely incapable. The principles upon which the author's plan is based are—ist. The mobility of the child in vitero, varying according to the activity of the uterus. 2nd. The fact that in transverse presentations the knee is almost immediately over the os uteri, and that the foot is close to the breech, and will be found upon it when this presents. 3rd. The ease with which, in transverse presentations, the head can be directed either back to the os or to the fundus of the uterus. Podalic version of the child, in ordinary head presentations, is efi'ected by pressing on one side of the breech at the fundus by a series of gentle palpations, or by a gliding pressure on the abdominal parietes, so as to follow up the foetus as it recedes lender the impulse, by the continuance of which the breech is brought to the middle of the uterus on one side; at the same time the head is pushed up by one or two fingers in the os, so as to raise it above the brim to the middle of the uterus on the other side. The child being thus more or less transverse, the knee can, in most cases, be easily seized; if not, the breech must be depressed still more, and the foot secured. Turning will sometimes be simplified if, as soon as the head is above the brim, we pass the outside hand beneath it, and t)ush it up from the outside alternately with the depression of the jreech. If the os will only admit one finger, the foot can yet be re- tained by pressing it with that finger against the anterior part of the OS, because here the pubes will assist in supporting the pressure. Sup- posing the position cannot be distinctly made out, if the head be placed at some distance from the centre of the os, then the head sliould be pressed to that side to which it inclines, and the breech to the opposite; but if the head be nearly central, and the position be not known, then the breech should be pressed towards the right side and the head to the left. In the early stage of transverse presentations the case will generally be the easiest of any requiring version, and here the external depression of the breech is so efi"ective that the necessity for introducing the whole hand is, in most cases entirely avoided; but where the arm is prolapsed beyond the vulva, and the thorax jammed into the cavity of the pelvis, the old method should be adopted, though even in the worst cases the external depression of the breech is of great advantage.REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, KTC. 880 Wlieu the arm has not prolapsed so far, the attempt should be made to return it on to the chest of the child, and then to push the child onward in the direction of the head, depressing the breech externally if podalic version be intended; but since the greatest value of this mode is the capability of version long before it can be performed by any other method, extreme cases will seldom occur to a vigilant practitioner. Cephalic version, which adds to that of Wigand's the more extended use of the iuner hand, and which the author has found most useful in some cases of transverse presentation, is thus effected:—With the left hand in the vagina, as in podalic version, and the right over the uterus, the shoulder is first pushed on in the direction of the feet by the inner hand, while at the same time pressure is made on the cephalic end of the_ child, which will bring the head down close to the os, and allow it to be secured between the two hands. The head is then placed directly over the os, and any tendency to face presentation at once rectified, while the external hand is retained on the head till the uterus has moulded itself to the form of the head and shoulders. The ease with which cephalic version was effected in this way in one of the cases related by the author was such that only half a minute was required; but if there be any difficulty in this, podalic version is still feasible. All that is required is to place the hand on the opposite end of the child and depress it, pushing the head and shoulder from within, while the fingers in the os are ready to hook down a knee or foot; and, as a rule, in neck and transverse presentations, where all the conditions are favorable, cephalic version should first be attempted, and, failing this, podalic version may be effected. The advantages of early turning, whether for a cephalic or podalic presentation, in cases of neck, shoulder, and transverse presentations, will be manifest, while it is not less valuable in cases of convulsions ante partum. Here the introduction of the hand into the uterus is frequently attended with much danger, while by this method we shall Ije able to take advantage of the earliest dilatation of the os, and assist it by gentle traction upon the leg, which will thus act as a dilator. In placenta prtevia the easy application of this mode of turning is shown by the author in a series of eight cases. It is especially valuable in those cases where, with great haemorrhage, the os is yet so little dilated that not more than one or two fingers can be introduced. Here the author's practice is to rupture the membranes when the foot arrives at the os, and then, without any force to draw the foot and leg through. By exerting gentle traction tvitli merely the weight of the arm, the leg is retained and forms a good plug, while valuable time is gained to rally the patient, for the os to dilate, and the pains to come on. Except in cases of internal haemorrhage, the author waits for the natural efforts to deliver, and has never seen any haemorrhage, internal or external, after the leg has been brought down. Should the placenta lie more or less completely over the os, the membranes will generally be found by detaching the placenta on that side which is least thickened; otherwise the method recommended by Dr. Barnes, of detaching the placenta all round till the membranes are reached, is the best. The advantage of turning under chloroform is very marked, but at least half the cases rela-ted by the author were performed381 TUBNING. without, and were amongst the most successful. Twenty cases are related, including eight of placenta prfevin, as illustrative of the author's mode of version ; all were cases of great urgency, and in most, the old method of version would not have been practicable. In one case of profuse accidental haemorrhage, transfusion was employed with so good a result, that version was performed in half a minute, and delivery accomplished, but the patient, unfortunately, died from exliaustion half an hour afterwards. The advantages of this method of turning are summed up by the author under two heads—(<?) those of avoidance, and (b) those of acqui- sition. (a) We avoid the addition of the hand, and perhaps of the arm to the uterine contents, with the present and future chances of irritation caused by it; the entry of air into the uterus; the liability to rupture of the uterus, the pressure being opposite to that of the ordinary method; much of the pain and distress felt by the patient in the old plan; much of the fatigue and distress felt by the operator by the pressure of the uterus during contractions, and the increase of collapse by the presence of the hand in cases of severe exhaustion. (b) On the other hand, we shall gain—i, The opportunity of cor- recting malpresentations as soon as they are recognised; 2, the capa- bility of early delivery; 3, the opportunity of using the child as a compress in placenta praevia; 4, the capability of version at a time when the old method is impracticable; 5, the opportunity of producing cephalic version much more readily than formerly. The difficulties liable to occur in performing this plan of turning are -.—first, the doubling up of the foetus upon itself, as in protracted transverse presentations, especially where the arm has been long pro- lapsed. If to this condition be added a very active uterus, the diffi- culty is still further increased, and here the breech should be depressed as much as possible externally, and the hand introduced as far as is necessary to reach the knee, which, by the eflFort, has generally been brought down at least half the distance towards the cervix. Second. The firm and active contraction of the uterus upon the foetus. Here chloroform should be inhaled to its full extent, and should it suspend uterine action for only a few minutes, in the majority of cases version may be effected without the hand in the uterus, except in the first-men- tioned cases. A fourth difficulty may be the excessive mobility of the cliild, which is seldom met with m labour at full term, but will be found in premature labour, especially if the child be already dead; and this diffi- culty may be increased by excess of liquor amnii, which, however may at once be removed by rupturing the membranes. The operation should he perfo7'med methodicalli/, and without any confusion or hum/ No indications of metritis have ever been seen by the author after this plan of version, and if such a sequel threaten, the j^ressure required and the kind of motion to be produced, will not have been understood! Dr. Hicks believes that the above mode of version will succeed in " c per cent, of all the cases requiring it, and the earlier it is performed the greater will be the resulting success.382 UEPOllT ON MIDWirEllY, ETC. OiBSAUEAN SECTION. Dr. Ludwig AVinckel, on fifteen cases of Ceesarean section ('Mon. f. Gebui-t,' July and October, 1863). Prom the remarkable prevalence of osteomalacia and rachitis in his district, Dr. Wiuckel has performed the Cfesarean section thirteen times in twenty-two years, besides assisting in the operation twice. Of the fifteen cases, the deformity of the pelvis arose from osteomalacia in nine cases, and from rachitis in six. The patients all belonged to the very poorest class, and were most unfavorably situated in every respect; most being dependent upon public charity, and some on parochial relief. Among other difl&culties encountered by the author was the great distance at which many of the patients lived, and hence the most favorable period for operation was often missed, and the after treatment materially afi"ected. With regard to the operation itself, Dr. Winckel thinks that it is essential to its suc- cess that no previous attempts at delivery shall have been made. The most favorable period for operation is the end of the first stage, with the membranes unruptured. About this time the uterus has attained its greatest expansion, its activity is well developed, and the evolution of the child will be easiest. Little or no fear need be entertained of the escape of the liquor amnii into the abdominal cavity as in three of the cases where this occurred no unfavorable result followed. In all but four of the cases, the operation was performed under chloroform, which in no case produced any injurious effect. The author thinks it very important to open the uterus as near the median line as possible, and especially urges the avoidance of the fundus, from the great liability of wounds of this part to gape widely. Protrusion of the intestine is prevented by drawing closely together the corresponding angles of the uterine and abdominal wound; by this simple method, all internal sponging (Von Grraefe) and preliminary sutures (Autenricth and Zang) are avoided. Haemorrhage after the uterus is emptied is most easily checked by immediate compression with the hand, and hence the abdo- minal wound should not be closed until the uterus has firmly con- tracted. By adopting this plan, the author has not lost any patient from haemorrhage. After all hajmorrhage has ceased he closes the abdominal wound by the " sutura cruentaand into the lower angle of the woimd places a narrow strip of linen, soaked in oil; which is directed backwards towards the uterus to favour the discharge of any secretions. He considers that complete closure of the abdominal cavity is very im- portant, but that the presence of a little blood in it is of little or no consequence. After the completion of the bandaging, an examination per vaginam is made to ascertain the condition of the os, and remove any coagula, for the successful issue depends not a little on the uterine secretions all passing by their natural outlet from the beginning. In the after treatment the importance of great cleanliness, frequent change of bandages, except the first bandage (which the author prefers to keep on until the fourth or fifth day), and the internal exhibition of opium are insisted upon. The troublesome and distressing meteorismus is best relieved byCEPHALOmiPSY. 388 enemata and small doses of Dover's powder. The much-extolled appli- cation of ice the author was never able to test. The following are the results of the 15 cases. Of the mothers, 8 died and 7 recovered; while of the children, 8 were born alive and 7 dead. One patient was operated upon twice, but died after the second operation ; and, on another patient, Dr. Winckel operated three times successfully; on the last two occasions rupture of the uterus occuri-ed prior to the operation, and the child was both times removed from the abdominal cavity. Eight months after the operation, the patient is said to have died of parotitis. These cases show how much more unfavorable osteomalacia is for the operation than rachitis. Of the 9 patients oj)erated on for osteo, malacian deformity of the pelvis, 6 died, or 66 per cent.; while of the 6 rachitic women only 2 died, or 33 per cent.; and these results would probably have been more favorable if the selection of the period for operation had been dependent on the author. A case is recorded by Professor Breslau with dilatable osteomalacic pelvis (' Mon. f. Geb.,' Nov. 1862); M. Schulze (' Mon. f. Geb.,' July, 1863); M. Heillmann, successful ('Deutsche Klinik,' No. 31, 1863); M. T. J. Freericks, of Bussum, a case with successful result for mother and child; a year later, induction of premature labour, and rupture of the uterus, with successful gastrotomy (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' No. 3, 1863) ; Dr. Taussig, two' successful cases ('Med. Times and Graz.,' ii, 1863, p. 377); Prof Hecker ('Aertz. Intell. Baiersch.,' Aertz. 9, 1862); Dr. Swayne ('Lancet,' i, 1863, p. 606); Dr. Greenhalgh ('Lancet,' i, 1863, p. 204). CEPHAIOTBIPST. Prof. Pajot, in a memoir on " Cephalotripsy repeated without trac- tion; or, a method for delivery in extreme contractions of the pelvis" ('Arch. Gen. de Med.,' May, 1863), shows that in many cases tha Cffisarean section may be avoided by the use of the cephalotribe being extended to cases of greater pelvic contraction than those to which it has hitherto been limited. In ordinary contractions—those between two and a quarter, and three and three quarter inches—cephalotripsy succeeds well, and not more tlian two or three applications of the in- strument need be made. But an objection to it is, that it compresses the head in the transverse diameter when the contraction is in the antero-posterior, so that the long diameter of the head is opposed to the short diameter of the pelvis; this defect may, however, be partially corrected by imparting to the head, during traction, a slight rotatory move- ment. But in extreme contractions, as those between one and a quarter and two and a quarter inches, cephalotripsy is as dangerous to the mother as the Cassarean section. Here, the difficulty or impossibility of reach- ing, the base of the cranium with the instrument, the disproportion between the passage and the head, the repeated tractions, necessary and often fruitless, to deliver the child, the lacerations, and death which884 IIEPOJIT ON MIDWIFERY, KTC. often result, sufliciently explain why the Ctesarean section should be preferred. Professor i?ajot, however, uses the cephalotribe with suc- cess in cases where the contraction measures only one and a quarter inch. As soon as tlie os is sufficiently open to admit the instrument, the cephalotribe should be applied, witli the head fixed by pressure in the hypogastrium, and the handles of the instrument carried well back- wards, and the blades pushed as deeply as possible, so as to bury the joint in the orifice of the vagina. All this is necessary to crush the base of the skull. On this first cephalotripsy the success of the whole operation depends. The first crushing effected, a movement of rotation is made with the instrument, in order to place the lessened dimen- sions of the head in the contracted diameter of the pelvis, carefully moving to the right or left to find the direction where there is most room. If thei-e be any resistance, rotation must be desisted from altogether. The uterus almost always moulds the new form tiius given to the head by crushing to the shape of the canal, by imparting that rotation which was difficult with the instruments. The head having been crushed as much as it can be, the instrument is disjointed and withdrawn icithout having exercised any traction. A second, and, if ne- cessary, a third introduction and crushing is efiected, but always loithout traction. The patient is then left. According to her condition, M. Pajot repeats the crushings every two, three, or four liours; and the head being well broken up, one or two more crushings will generally suffice for the trunk. The distinguishing character of this operation is the absence of all traction, the object being to effect the progressive dimi- nution of the parts in proportion as the uterine contractions mould the crushed head, and so direct it in the direction most favorable to enable it to pass through the contractions. The author relates 7 cases in which this method was practised. In 4 of these the autero-posterior diameter measured only six centimetres (about two and a quarter inches) ; and in the 3 remaining cases the contraction was less than two inches. In 6 cases the foetus was expelled, in 1 the woman died un- delivered, and another died after the operation. The remaining 5 recovered. (' Brit, and For. Med.-Chii-. Eev.,' July, 1863.) PAET II.—DISEASES OE WOMEN. PHTSIOLOGX. Dr. Lissuer records a case of congenital absence of the uterus. The patient, set. 35, was married thirteen years, without children. Men- struation had never appeared, but molimina menstrualia had recurred every three weeks from her seventeenth year. With a catheter in the bladder and the finger in the rectum, no intervening body could be felt; and in spite of the periodical molimina, no swelling was found above the vagina (hajmatometra), the pelvis resembled that of the male, and there was complete sac-shaped closing of the vagina. (' Mon. f. Geb.,' December, 1862.)385 OPERATIONS IN MIDWIFEllY. M. Gubler, " On Uterine litemorrbages, aud their relations to Men- struation" ('Gaz. des Hop.,' Sept. 1863), states that the sanguineous discharge from the uterus which not uncommonly occurs at the com- mencement of, and during the progress of acute diseases, is merely analogous to the epistaxis which occurs in the early stage of fevers. M. Gubler cites the following case, to show that the sanguineous dis- charge is merely an accessory circumstance of menstruation. A woman of general good health, set. 23, died in the Beaujon Hospital, from acute meningitis. She had never had any menstrual discharge, but after death the ovaries were found well developed, and contained corpora lutea. There were eleven in the left ovary and six in the right. In the left ovary there was a recent corpus luteum, and the vesicle still con- tained a small clot of blood. On the other hand, the discharge may take place independently of ovulation, or continue beyond it; for dis- charges regarded as menstrual occur in circumstances where ovulation is impossible, as in girls not arrived at puberty. M. Gubler relates a case which seems to show that in some circumstances the same cause may bring about ovulation, aud the discharge of blood, Avithout one of these being necessarily subordinate to the other. In a young woman attacked with cerebro-meuiugitis, the menstrual discharge began with the first symptoms of the disease, and continued till her death, on the tenth day. The autopsy showed perfect cicatri- zation of the follicle, and the formation of a corpus luteum, correspond- ing with the presence of recent clots in the uterine cavity. Here was well shown the separation bet\veen the two orders of menstrual pheno- mena ; the evolution of the Graafian vesicle, and its rupture, with the discharge of a mature ovum; and, on the other hand, the congestion of the utero-ovarian vascular plexuses and of the uterine cavity, with the discharge constituting the menstrual flux. NON-PTIEEPEltAL PELVIC INFLAMMATION. Under the head of " Pelvic Inflammation and Abscess in the Non- Puerperal State," Dr. McClintock ('Clinical Memoirs,' pp. 36—jja) groups together an important series of cases, including many which difier materially in then* character, from the cellulitis of the puerperal state. Two forms of the disease may be recognised: a primary, or idiopathic—the more rare in occurrence, and the more apt to have a distinct, if not an acute, mode of invasion ; and a secondary, or symp- tomatic, generally consecutive, upon some uterine or ovarian disease. Twelve cases are related. Of these, 6 were primary and 6 were secondary. Of the former, the attack was induced by an ill-adjusted or over-large pessary, in 2 cases, " and this is not an uncommon cause;" while in a third, excessive coition seems to have been the exciting cause. In 3 of these cases the inflammation had its seat in the cellular tissue around the cervix uteri, and were strictly examples of the " peri- uterine phlegmon " of Becquerel. Of the latter class the pelvic inflam- mation was secondary to fibrous tumour of the uterus in 3 cases, to uterine polypus in 2 cases, and to peritonitis in i case. ' Of the primary cases, 5 recovered aud i died. Of the secondary 25386 llEPOET ON MIDWIFEllY, ETC. cases, I recovered aud ^ died. These cases, though few in number, forcibly illustrate how insidious aud dangerous pelvic or abdomino- pelvic abscesses may be, and how important is their correct dia- gnosis ; especially if any operation, such as the removal of a polypus, be contemplated. The symptoms which should excite suspicion are a persistent hardness and swelling in one or other iliac region, not distinctly refer- able to uterine or ovarian enlargement, with persistent uneasiness and more or less tenderness on pressure. Among the points of difference between the pelvic abscess of the puerperal and of the non-puerperal state, may be noted—i. The far greater frequency of the abscess bursting into the peritoneal cavity in the latter than in the former case. No such accident ever occuri'ed, in the author's experience, of pelvic abscess succeeding to parturition, while of the six fatal cases here recorded, three terminated in this way; —2. The much greater frequency with which the pus is discharged per rectum or per vaginam in the ?iora-puerperal pelvic abscess, and the ex- treme rarity of the abscess pointing externallj/ in this class of cases;— 3. The far greater danger of the non-puerperal pelvic inflammation, and hence the more guarded prognosis. This latter is contrary, however, to the opinion of many French authors, Avho maintain that the puerperal disease is more dangerous than the non-puerperal. The apparent dis- crepancy may be reconciled by the primary or idiopathic form of the latter being only included in the comparison, and not the secondary. AFFECTIONS Or THE OS AND CEEYIX 'UTEEI. Dr. Barnes relates an interesting series of cases of occlusion of the uterus or vagina at different periods of life. " On Amenorrhoea aud HEBmatometra" ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' vol.'ii, 1863, p. 401). Of the tv?o cases of hfematometra, one arose from an imperforate hymen in a young girl, and was cured by operation. In these cases the author strongly advocates the gradual evacuation of the uterus, in opposition to the sudden artificial emptying by compres- sion and washing out; and he therefore simply removes the obstructing barrier, and leaves the uterus to empty itself, only giving it support by applying a compress and binder to the abdomen. In the second case the retention of blood in the uterus arose from complete atresia of the vagina by cicatrization, probably during the healing of venereal sores. The vagina was with difficulty opened up by two operations, and the uterus allowed to empty itself naturally. Two others were cases of amenorrhoea; one with congenital absence of vagina, and the other with undeveloped uterus; and in two more cases procidentia of the uterus existed, with complete occlusion of the os uteri. Dr. Tracy records a case of undeveloped uterus (' Australian Med. Journ.,' January, 1863), where the development was stimulated by the use of galvanic intra-uterine pessaries.387 DISEASES OF THE CHILD IMPEDING DELIVEUY. Dr. Bavues relates a ease of hypertrophic elongation of the cemi uteri, iu w hich cauterization failed. Amputation was performed by Dr. Marion Sims' method, with successful result. (' Med. Times and Gaz., vol. i, 1863, p. 7.) ^ M. Jobert distinguishes between congenital elongation and hyper- trophy of the cervix from disease, and recommends cauterization by the hot iron, especially for the first condition. ('L'Union Med.,' Julj, 1863.) VERSIONS OF THE UTERUS. INVEESIOIf. We extract the following from Dr. G-raily Hewitt's work on ' Diseases of "Women,' p. 266. Inversion of the uterus generally occurs in connection with child-birth, but sometimes quite independently of pregnancy, being caused by the presence of a large polypus dragging down the fundus. The inversion may be partial or complete. If com- plete and recent, the diagnosis is not usually difficu^lt. A tumour is felt in the vagina, which varies in size according to the degree of the inversion, and the time since its occurrence. This tumour is smooth, hard, uniform, and without any opening on the surface, which is per- fectly continuous with that of the vagina. At the point corresponding to the OS uteri this pyriform tumour projects downwards into the vagina. If the patient have been recently delivered, if a tumour have occupied the vagina since delivery, and if it be known that no tumour existed previously, then the case will not be doubtful. There is no possibility in complete inversion of passing the finger above the pedicle of the tumour, nor can the uterine sound pass in this direction. The symptoms are variable, unless the inversion be acute, and sometimes do not attract attention until the disease has lasted some time. Inversion of the uterus has been frequently regarded and treated as polypus, and the difierential diagnosis is sometimes obscure. In both cases the tumour is generally more or less pyriform, hard, resistant, and smooth, and in both it termi- nates above in a constricted portion; in both, hasmorrhage and leucorrhoea are present, with symptoms produced by pressure on the adjacent viscera, but in the case of inversion, neither the sound nor the finger can be passed upwards beyond the pedicle of the tumour, whereas in the case of a polypus projecting into the vagina, the uterine sound can be made to pass beyond the neck of the tumour, which is encircled by the 08 uteri, into the interior of the uterus. The introduction of the sound into the uterus is not, always, however, an easy matter, and the only positive means of ascertaining the true condition is by intro- ducing a sound into the bladder and the finger into the rectum, when the absence of the body of the uterus will be perceptible. In cases of partial inversion the difficulty of diagnosis is even greater. Dr. M'Clintock points out this additional symptom. By making downward traction on the tumour the lip formed by the os disappears, while on ceasing the traction the lip is again evident. In many cases the closest examination will be necessary to solve the difficulty. Dr. M'Clintock388 llJStOllT ON MlUWiFKEY, ETC. records a case of complete procidentia and inversion of the uterus, witli a polypus attached to tlie fundus ; extirpation of tlie uterus by the ecraseur was performed after it had been ligatured three days, and the patient got rapidly well. In any case of chronic inversion calling for extirpation, Dr. M'Cliutock states that he will, without hesitation, adopt a yimiiar course. ' Diseases of Women,' p. 97. Cases of acute inversion of the uterus are recorded by:—Mr. Thorne (' Lancet,' vol. i, 1863, p. 266); Mr. Hooker, ('Med. Times and Graz.,' vol. ii, 1863, p. 277), and Dr. Eamsbotham, (ibid. 432). Hetroflexion of the TJtems. Dr. Ereund, of Breslau, on ' Retroflexlo Uteri and its Consequences.' In this affection, the connective tissue is considerably altered at those points where the flexion takes place; there are adhesions between the fund us of the uterus and the rectum, owing to peritonitis. The posterior wall of the flexed womb is filled with masses of connective tissue, the seat and extent of which determine the ease or difficulty of reposition. Hydronephrosis is a frequent concomitant affection, and is caused either by real stenosis of one or both ureters, or by flexion, owing to dislocation of the womb. After perimetritis, the ureter fre- quently adheres to the lateral wall of the uterus ; and this explains the symptoms of hydronephrosis during life, viz., violent lumbar pains, shooting downwards along the ureters, neuralgia in the lo\^'er extremi- ties, headache, disordered functions of the bladder, and dyspepsia, all which were formerly attributed to hysteria. The condition of the urine resembles that observed in catarrh of the bladder, and pyelitis might often be the consequence. Regarding the treatment. Dr. Freuud re- commends reposition by mechanical means^ more especially by jNI. Valleix's sound, and medicated enemata (' Mon. £ Geb.,' supplement, vol. 1862). DISEASES OF THE UTERUS.—TUBEHCULOSIS. Tuberculosis of the uterus is a very rare disease. Mr. Tomlinsou contributes a case, 'Trans, of Obst. Soc.,' vol. v., p. 174. The patient, a single lady, £et. 55, had suffered from a profuse Avatery discharge of a dirty-brown colour, without smell, for more than two years. The uterus was found to be enlarged, but no conclusion could be formed as to the nature of the disease. She died fifteen months after being first seen. The uterus, Fallopian tubes, and ovaries were found enlarged and filled with tuberculous masses, on the removal of which the inner surface of the uterus presented a pitted or honeycomb appearance as far as the cervix, which was hypertrophied, but otherwise perfectly liealthy. There were no tubercles in the lungs, nor in any other organ. Dr. Oldham remarks that in six cases of this disease which he had seen, the cavity was attacked in almost all, and generally was of small size.DISEASES OF AVOJrEN. 389 POLTPUS OF THE UTEEtTS. Tlie followiug is an extract from the essay by Dr. M'Cliutock, ' Clinical Diseases of Women,' p. 155. Polypus uteri is very rarely met vith before the age of thirty. Of thirty-four cases noted by the author, the youngest was twenty-five, and the oldest sixty; married, widows, and virgins, were among the number, but of the last, comparatively few. The general structure of the polypi removed by the author was fibrous, or fibro-sarcomatous. The particular structure of which it is composed does not appear to influence the hajmorrhage or other symptoms of a polypus. Of the varieties, tlie fibrous or muscular generally arises from the fundus ; the sarcomatous, from the upper part of the cervix, or lower part of the body, the gelatinous and vascular almost always spring from the lower part of the cervix. Besides the leading sipnptom,—irregular ha)morrhage,—sickness of stomach is not infrequent. The surface of a beniffii polypus varies in colour from a pale pink, to a deep red or purple, and is smooth to the touch. Uterine pain, and tenderness on digital examination are generally absent, but the former may exist when the tumour is intra-iiterine, and the latter after it has been expelled. The diagnosis of an inti'a-uterine polypus is generally difiicult; but it may be suspected if there be frequent metrorrhagia, independently of pregnancy or disease of the ceiwix, and with the enlargement of the uterus. If a tumour appear at the os-uteri, exploration with the finger or uterine sound may clear up the doubt; if these fail, the growth may be seized with a vulsellum, and if it have a pedicle, some movement of rotation can be effected. Of the fibrinous polypus first described by Kiwisch, and noticed by Scanzoni and West, the author has met with one well-marked case, in which a dense coagulum, forming an exact cast of the uterus, was expelled thi-ee weeks after de- livery. He agrees with Scanzoni, that these formations are always to be regarded as sequelae of abortion, and there can be little doubt that some of the moles described by Musitamus and others, were identical with the fibrinous polypus. Bokitansky suggests the possibility of these polypi occasionally originating in alterations of the retained membranes after abortion ; and Prof. Braun, of Berlin, believes that a retained placenta is often the cause of polypoid bodies being formed within the uterus. See also a case of Dr. J. Ogle, 'Trans, of Path. Soc' In the treatment, Dr. M'Clintock strongly insists on the removal of the polypus by torsion, or excision by the "knife, scissors, or ecraseur, in preference to the ligature, for while the principal danger from excision is the haemorrhage, in the operation by the ligature it is the secondary or remote eftccts which are to be most dreaded. Of 34 cases noted by the author, there were only 3 fatal cases, all of which occurred after operation by the ligature; and of ^9 cases of ligature reported by Dr. E. Lee, 9 proved fatal, while, according to the same authority, out of 35 cases in which polypi were removed by excision or torsion, not one patient died. Scanzoni restricts the ligature to cases in which torsion is prevented by the thick- ness of tlie pedicle, and excision is impossible, from its being beyondTIEPOHT ON MIDWIFEHy, ETC. 390 reach. The author believes the use of the ligature alone will ere long become nearly obsolete, and, from a review of the cases given in this report, as well as of those recorded by Dr. Hamilton, Dr. 11. Lee, and others, thinks we are justified in drawing the following conclusions as to the bad consequences whicli may result from the use of the ligature :— I. Death may occur before "the ligature has cut through the neck of the polypus, even in cases where this has not been unusually delayed, and where no part of the uterus has been included in the ligature. 3. In some cases, death has been caused by the supervention of peritonitis. 3. In other cases uterine phlebitis, ending in death, has succeeded the application of the ligature. 4. In not a few instances the fatal issue has apparently been attributable to a kind of low toxceraic fever, or constitutional irritation. 5. Pelvic abscess, with its attendant dangers, is a result to be apprehended. 6. Phlegmasia dolens of one or both legs may foUow the employment of the ligature. Dr. Braxton Hicks records a case of intra-uterine polypus removed by his wire-rope e'craseur, after the cervix had been dilated by means of the stem of the Laminaria digatata, or common sea tangle (' Med. Times and Gaz.' vol. i, 1863, p. 109); Dr. Cockle, a case of large pedunculated fibrous polypus (ibid., vol. ii, p. 484). Prof Simon, of Eostock ('Mon. f. Geb.' Dec, 1862), proposes a new method of removing large fibrous polypi from the uterus, the base of which is so large that application of the ligature or ecraseur is im- possible. The essential point in the excision of such tumours is the diminution of their circumference, for by this only can the pedicle be reached. This method consists in making a series of transverse inci- sions in the capsule of the tumour, and then by traction elongation is effected, and the tumour so thinned that the pedicle can be reached without difficulty by the finger and instrument. This elongation of the polypus at the expense of its thickness is de- pendent on that property of the fibres of fibrous polypi by which they are enabled to be drawn out and separated from each other in large bundles, as soon as the unyielding investment, the hypertrophied sub- mucous cellular tissue of the uterus, is divided to a sufficient extent. The operation is performed by seizing the point of the polypus with the vulsellum, drawing it down, and then making free and deep transverse incisions into the body of the tumour, with a long and sharp-pointed pair of Cooper's scissors, luitil the unyielding capsular parts beyond the first incision are divided, and a sufilcient reduction of the size of the tumour is obtained. The haemorrhage is slight, and soon ceases after the removal of the polypus. Three cases are related in which this operation was performed with success. Dr. Alfred Hegar, of Darmstadt, relates a case in which this operation was modified. The tumour was chiefly intra-uterine, extending one inch and a quarter beyond the cervix, with its whole cir- cumference adherent to the uterine walls. The adhesions were divided by scissors as far as possible, the point of the scissors was then turned directly on the tumour itself, which was cut, first in front, and then on the side, in a circular direction, so as to form a spiral series of cuts,891 DISEASES OP WOMEN. thus using traction on the tumour, it became elongated, so that the pedicle was readied and divided, and the tumour removed. Slight fever and peritonitis followed, but the patient recovered well (' Mon. f. G-eb.' March, 1863). DISEASES OF THE OVARIES.—OVAEIOTOMT. Dr. Clay, Manchester, gives the results of his experience (* Trans. Obst. Soc, Lond.,' vol. v., 58). Of 116 cases in which the peritoneal section was made, 108 were for the extirpation of diseased ovaries, 4 for cutting down upon the tumour to establish ulceration where its re- moval was known to be impracticable, i for the Caesarean section, and I for the removal of both uterus and ovaries. Of the 108 cases of ovariotomy, 74 completely recovered, and 34 died. All the four ulcerative cases recovered; the case of Cfesarean section lived to the fifteenth day, and the case of entire removal of both uterus and ovaries recovered. Of the 74 recoveries, many subsequently had children, both male and female, and in only two cases did the disease return in the opposite ovary. Of these last, one died five years after the operation, the other recovered after the removal of a tumour weigh- ing forty-eiglit pounds, married, had three children, and sixteen years after the first operation was operated on a second time, and recovered. Of the 34 deaths, 10 died from " shock," 10 from peritonitis—generally about the third day—12 from prostration on or about the sixth or ninth day, and 2 from haemorrhage. Dr. Clay attributes mucTi of his success to the temperature of tlie room being raised to about 75°. He would prefer to operate without chloroform, since of the first fourteen of liis cases, performed before chloroform was discovered, nine recovered; he still prefers tlie large incision, and attributes the distressing vomiting to the use of chloroform. Critical days are the third, sixth, ninth, and twelfth. Purgatives are injurious, and enemata with ox-gall are recommended. The patient is never allowed to empty either bladder or rectum without the catheter or enema for the first five or six days after operation. OVAKIOTOMY. " The results obtained by operators of late years have been very much more favorable than was tlie case a few years back, and it may "be said that, with a few exceptions, the most eminent physicians and surgeons in this country now regard ovariotomy as a legitimate and necessary operation." Dr. Graily Hewitt, ' Diseases of Women,' p. ^88. The following table, with the exception of Mr. Bryant's cases, in- cludes the results of operations performed, so far as the author can learn, up to September, 1863. Name of operator. ^ '^^HX^T' ^urcs. Deaths. Mr. Baker Brown' 58 32 26 Mr. Bryant lo 6 4 Dr. Clay (Manchester) 107 73 -34 .Mr. Jonatlian Hutchinson 7 4 ^ Mr. Lane ji g ^ Dr. Tyler Smith ig ^ Mr. Spencer Wells ^4 aqKEPOUT OX MIDAVIFKRY, T.TC. 392 The average per-centage of cures will be found to be 66; the highest and lowest pei'-centage being 78 and ^5 respectively, but if the results of operations performed within the last four j'ears only had been given, it would be seen that the per-ccntago of cures would be even still higher. "If this result be coinparecl with that of cases of ovarian dropsy left to themselves, it will be seen that of 100 patients aftecteil ■with progressive ovarian disease, 90 may be expected to be dead within two years if nothing beyojid palliative measures be adopted ; while from 60 to 70, may, by experienced operators, be fairly expected to be saved from death by ovariotomy." Dr. HcAvitt (op. cit.), p. 590. There is good reason to believe that the mortality after the operation will annually become less, and that operations in the last stage of the disease Avill be comparatively rare. Mr. Hutchinson, in recording a successful case in a woman, aged sixtv- five,—probably the oldest on whom the operation has been performed,— shows the value of turning the patient on the side opposite to that from which the tumour grows, as soon as the cyst is partially emptied. The advantages obtained by this are tliree. First. The greatly increased facility of dragging out the cyst. Secondly. The much diminished risk of any cyst-fluid or blood passing into the peritoneal sac. Thirdly. Tlie completion of the operation much more quickly, and with a smaller incision. In cases of polycistic tumours, the side position is especially desirable, since these can be much more easily reached and punctured in succession, or, in some cases, in this position, the tumour might be cut into freely, without any attempt at emptying it being made by the trocar. 'Brit. Med. Journ.' vol. i, 1863, p. 320. Mr. Spencer Wells relates the case of a patient upon whom ovari- otomy was twice performed. 'Med.-Chir. Trans.,' vol. xlvi. The propositions the author believes to be established by this ease are: (r) That ovariotomy may be performed twice on the same patient without any unusual difficulty. (2) That it may be advisable to make the in- cision, with the second operation, at some distance from the cicatrix left after the first operation. (3) That whenever one ovary is removed, the opposite ovary should be carefully examined, and that in all penetrating wounds of the abdomen, the divided edges of the peritoneum should be brought accurately and closely together. The author believed this case to be unprecedented, but he has lately learned that Dr. Atlee, of Philadelphia, has performed ovariotomy suc- cessfully upon a patient from whom Dr. Clay, of Manchester, had re- moved an ovai'ian tumour, sixteen years before. Mr. Spencer Wells records 2 5 cases of ovariotomy—18 of these were performed at the Samaritan Hospital, 14 recovered, and 4 died; the remaining 7 occurred in private practice, 6 of these recovered, and i died, • Med. Times and Gaz.,' vol. i., pp. 267, 314, 587, and vol. ii, pp. 560, 585.DISEASES OP WOUrEN, 393 EXTIEPATIOJf OF THE tTTEEUS AND BOTH OVARIES. Dr. Clay, Manchester, relates a case of extirpation of the uterus and both ovaries (' Trans, of Obst. Soc, Lond.,' vol. v, p. 66). He had also performed this operation in 1844, and but for an accident on the thirteenth day, the patient promised to recover. The present case was that of a single lady who suffered from a large fibroid tumour of the uterus very closely simuhiting an ovarian tumour. This had latterly so completely filled, up the cavity of the pelvis, that the passage of the fseces and urine was rendered extremely difficult. The tumour was with great difficulty dislodged from the pelvis, and was partially covered with the broad ligaments, so that the ovaries, of which the right was diseased, lay close to it. A ligature was ajjplied immediately above the plane of the 03 uteri, and the tumour removed with very trifling lijBmorrhage; the integuments were brought together and secui'ed by six interrupted sutures, padded, bandaged, and the patient removed to bed in about fifteen minutes from the commencement of the operation. The tumour weighed eleven pounds. Sickness was troublesome during the first twenty-four hours, and symptoms of peritonitis occurred during the next three days, but the patient made a good recovery and returned home quite well on the thirty-fifth day from the operation. Prof. Simpson, who saw the patient, and the tumour immediately after the operation, remarks that this case may prove a precedent for extirpa- tion in some exceptional cases of large fibroids of the uterus. M. Kceberle, of Strasbourg, relates a similar case, ' Presse. Med. Beige,' November, 1863. Both ovaries and the uterus were removed just above the vaginal portion of the cervix, for a large fibroid tumour of the uterus, which weighed fifteen and a half pounds. In spite of a severe attack of bronchitis, the patient recovered well. Dl' SMENOIIEHCE A. Of the three forms, mechanical, congestive, and neuralgic, Dr. Greenhalgh ('Trans, of Obst. Soc.,' vol. v, p. i64,) believes the first to be by far the most frequent. Many cases which he formerly regarded and treated without success as examples of the two latter forms, have readily yielded to division of the os and cervix uteri, by the bilateral metrotome, which the author has invented. Of 2^5 cases in which the author has operated with this instrument 18 have benefited considerably; 20 were married, and 3 were single women. Of the married, 5 had children, but had been sterile for periods varying from four to eleven years ; 3 have since become pregnant. All these patients had been treated without success for dysmenorrhcea • 7 were cases of congenital, and 16 of induced dysmenorrhcea; n have been wholly free from pain since the operation ; 7 suflfer so little as not to fieed treatment; the remaining 5 are unrelieved. In 4 of these last chronic metritis still existed. The author has found the division of the oa and cervix uteri especially serviceable in (i) dysmenorrhcea, congenital■HEPORT ON aiidwifehy, etc. 394 and induced. (2) In sterility, where there has been more or less obliquity of the uterus with a small external os. (3) In endometritis, where accumulation of inuco-pus takes place in the uterine cavity. '(4) In fibroid diseases of the uterus accompanied with great pain. (5) In suspected and proved cases of intra-uterine polypus, and discharges of coagula. PEEGKANCT. Dr. Curtis, after carefully examining the 'evidence, records a case of pregnancy in a girl under ten years of age, who was delivered of a full- grown male child, weighing eight pounds, when slie was ten years, eight mouths, and seven days old. The reputed father of the child is said to be about fifteen years of age. The mother menstruated once or twice before conception, was tolerably healthy during gestation, and had rather a lingering but quite natural labour. ' Boston Med. and Surg. Journal,' Feb. 19, 1863. The earliest age at which pregnancy is known to have occurred in this country, is eleven years, recorded by Mr. Eoberton, of Manchester. As an example of late pregnancy, Mr. H. Bloxam records a case of delivery in a primipara, aged fifty-two. * Lancet,' vol, ii, 1863, p. 380. ■DISEASES OE THE VAGIKA. Tumours springing from the walla of the vagina are rare.—Dr. M'Clintock, 'Diseases of Women,' p. 196. In structure they are either {a) fibrous, or (h) cystic. The former may be either peduncu- lated or non-pedunculated ; are generally small, and arise in the sub- mucous cellular tissue, the muscular coat of tbe vagina, or in the cellular network external to it; the larger growths have usually a deeper origin. Kiwisch asserts that the majority of the rounded fibroids connected with the vagina are primarily developed in the uterus, but this is only true of some cases where fibrous tumours of the uterus co-exist witli similar growths in the vagina. Dr. M'Clintock relates 3 interesting cases. In 2 of these, the tumours,—about the size of a hen's egg,—was first noticed near the end of pregnancy, both were pedunculated, and attached to tlie posterior wall of the vagina. The third case much resembled a procideut uterus. In all 3 cases extirpation was performed with success. (6) Cystic tumoui's of the vagina are even more rare than the fibrous. They probably arise, in many cases, from obstructed mucous follicles as Huguier has shown. Some of these vaginal cysts contain a clear glazy fluid like mucus, and others a limpid straw-coloured serum. These vaginal tumours are generally unattended by any symptoms; in many cases they have not been discovered or suspected till after labour has set in. Huguier supposes that the chauges and lesions of pregnancy and parturition most frequently produces them ; since out of 13 cases, in 12 tlie disease had developed itself during gestation or after delivery. The radical cure of these tumours may be eff'ected by simple puncture, excision with the scissors or knife, or by tapping and the subsequent application of nitrate of silver or iodine,DISEASES OF -WOMEN. 395 Di'. Saexinger relates 3 cases of cystic tumours of the vagina. ' Spitals-Zeitung,' Sept. 1863. All 3 cases are very similar, and in all the application of nitrate of silver rapidly effected a cure. Dr. Hard- wicke records a case, * Lancet,' vol. i, 1863, p, 326, were a non-pedan- culated tumour larger than an orange was found in the recto-vaginal septum in a woman in labour, and pressing forwards into the vagina. It was pushed down, and rendered tense by the child's head at each pain. The cyst was punctured, and about a pint of serous fluid escaped. Dr. Barnes—A case, 'Med. Times and Gaz./ vol. ii, 1862, p. 602. DISEASES OF THE PUEEPERAL STATE. PTTEEPEEAL C0NTTJLSI0N3. Bossi (' Spitals Zeitung,' 1862), relates 14 cases of eclampsia, which occurred witliin thirty-one months, among 4500 patients at the Lying- in Hospital of Graz. Of the 14 cases, 13 were primiparae. Of the mothers, 8 recovered, and 6 died. In all these last there was intense Bright's disease, with great hyperemia of the meninges, or of the brain itself, and in 5 cases oedema of the lungs. Of the children, 2 were born dead, and 12 lived ; 13 presented with the head, and i case—twin, with the bi'eech. Of the 15 children, 10 were extracted by the forceps, and i by perforation with cephalotripsy. The treatment adopted was, venesection in two cases, without success; chloroform in- halation one case, Avithout success ; enemata of opium in 7 cases, 3 died, 4 recovered. Subcutaneous injection of morphia 4 cases; 2 died, 2 re- covered. Applications of ice, and cold douche to the head, in 3 cases —all 3 recovered. Dr. Earasbotham, ' Clinical Midwifery' (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' vol. i, 1863, pp. 105, 235, 288), relates a series of cases of puerperal convulsions, which occurred in his practice during the years 1840— 1844. The number of cases was 19. Of these, 11 were primiparae, 7 were multipart, and in i case, it is not mentioned whether the patient was a primipara. In 14 cases, the convulsions occurred either before or during labour; and in 5, after the child's birth. Of the former series, 8 were at the full period of pregnancy; and in 6, labour came on prematurely. Of the latter series, _5 were at the full period; and in one, labour was premature. Three were twin-cases; in one, both children presented with the feet, which were brought down artifici- ally ; in another, both were delivered by forceps. One child was de- livered by turning, 5 by craniotomy, and' 12 passed naturally. Of the mothers, 15 recovered, and 4 died. Of the 4 fatal cases, one was a case of pure apoplexy. Of the 22 children, 6 were saved, and 16 bom dead. The author remarks on the peculiar liability of primiparse, especially if it be a twin gestation, to attacks of convulsions, and adds^ that of 111 cases attended by himself, 79 were primiparae, The opinioiiEEPORT ON MIDWlFEllYj ETC. 896 held by Deninnii and Collins, that "abdominal" inflammation is a common sequela of puerperal convulsions, the author does not find confirmed by his own experience; but thinks this may be accounted for by its being the practice to bleed more freely now for these attacks tlian when Deinnan wrote. In the 19 cases above mentioned, free venesection was employed in every case. In reference to the condition of the urine—of which mention is made in only one case, where it is said to be albuminous, the author remarks that he has found this condition to exist in " about every five cases out of six in which he has been able to make the observation, gradually becoming less with the recovery of the patient, and almost entirely disappearing at the end of twelve or fourteen days." Some pathologists believe the presence of albumen under such circumstances to be an indication of granular disease of the kidneys, and to this latter condition ascribe the cause of the convulsions; on the other hand, M. Blot and others, assert that "the excretion of albumen by the kidneys in small quantities, is not an unusual occurrence in pregnant women." The author suggests the following explanation :—" "We know that fibrine is in excess in the blood of pregnant women, we have reason to believe that albumen is also in excess ; and from the observations of M. Blot, as a part of that excess is got rid of by the kidneys, we may easily imagine that if there be a much greater quantity formed than healthy blood ought to contain, the superfluous albumen may be the exciting cause of the convulsive seizAire." Dr. Donkin (Ed. Med. Journ., May, 1863) relates a case of puerperal mania, in which the urine was albuminous, and submits the following proposition; " That the acute dangerous class of cases are examples of ursemic blood-poisoning, of which the mania, rapid pulse, and other constitutional symptoms are merely the phenomena ; and that the effu- sion, therefore, ought to be termed ura3mic oi* renal puerperal mania, in contradistinction to the other form of the disease. PUEEPEEAl DISEASES. Prof. Simpson relates four cases of exanthemata occurring in the puerperal state ('Ed. Med. Journ.,' June, 1863). Two were cases of scarlatina, both occurring on the second or third day after delivery, and both recovered; another was a case of measles ushered in by an intense rigor on the fourth day after a natural labour, and proving fatal in fifty-three hours. The fourth was a case of smallpox occurring seven days after delivery, and causing death on the sixteenth day. Professor Simpson remarks "that when any of the exanthemata attack a pregnant woman they rarely prove fatal, whatever the date of pregnancy may be; or if tliey do not appear till ten or fourteen days after her delivery they are not specially dangerous; but witliiu the "first eight days they are always alarming, and very often fatal. The early diagnosis is often very difficult, the disease, in many cases, being only marked by rigor.s with great rapidity of the pulse. Tlie author does not agree witli Dj-. Kamsbothara in'supposing that the poison of the special epidemic fever397 DISEASES OF WOMEN. is retained in the system of a puerperal woman some time before it broke out. A fatal case of puerperal purpura is added. As an exception to the above statement, Dr. M. T. Sadler (' Med. Times,' vol. i, p. 657) states, that of six cases of smallpox occurring within the first week after deli- very, all were mild cases, and recovered; while in three cases, the same disease appeared during the thii-d, fifth, and ninth months of preg- iiuncy respectively, inducing in each case premature labour, and causing death a few hours after delivery. "VVe take the following from a memoir, by Dr. M'Clintock, " On Puerperal Pelvic Cellulitis," ' Diseases of Women,' pp. i—35. Although tedious in its progress, and exhausting to the patient, the disease rarely ends fatally. Of 70 cases, seen by the author, 2 only died, death in each case resulting from dysentery caused by an abscess bursting into the colon. Of 61 cases, 28 were primiparte, though these form only a third of all the patients delivered in the Rotundo. The author agrees with Dr. AV^est that cellulitis is rarely the result of true puer- peral fever, but thinks, with Dr. Bennet, that it often succeeds an attack of metritis or metro-peritonitis. In 34 out of 62 cases, previous to the occurrence of cellulitis, there had been well-marked symptoms of uterine or abdominal inflammation, more or less severe, wthin the first week of childbed. The disease may follow so insidiously after metritis that its existence may not even be suspected until the patient gets up and begins to walk about. Heace the rule insisted upon by the author, that in all cases of convalescence from uterine or peritoneal inflammation, tlie iliac regions should be daili/ examined as carefully as the pulse is noted. Pelvic cellulitis may afl'ect almost any part of the cellular tissue adjacent to the uterus ; and whether occurring primarily or secondarily, it seldom appears after the lying-in month. The sex of the child, the age of the woman, and whether she suckles or not, are circtunstances which do not seem to have any influence upon its production ; but, upon this last point, the author's opinion is directly opposed to that of M. GrisoUe and of Dr. Bennet. The latter states that " one of its most frequent causes is the sudden arrest of lactation, however it may originate." When the disease occurs in a primary form,—which is generally attributable to some imprudence or indis- cretion of the patient,—its invasion is marked by a rigor, to which succeed local pain, pyrexia, and the rapid formation of a tumour. Cases which begin thus, seldom end in suppuration, if appropriate treat- ment be promptly adopted. More usually, however, there seems to be no acute stage, the disease coming on insidiously, or appearing as a sequela of metritis. The diagnosis is here sometimes less evident, and if the tumour be very large, and extend much above the crest of the ilium, a disregard to the history of the case may lead to its being mis- taken for an ovarian tumour. Where suppuration occurs, the chronic stage is generally brief, and seldom well marked. A return of pain and great tenderness in the tumour, with heightened pulse, emacia- tion, hectic symptoms, and diarrhoea, mark this stage, which, if it con-898 REPOUT on MIDWIFEEY, ETC. tinue long, will reduce the patient to a state of great marasmus, and from this, recoveiy would scarcely seem possible. Among the more special symptoms—which of necessity vary with the seat of the tumour,—the author mentions as an unfavorable symptom, inability to extend the thigh of the affected side, and agrees with Churchill, that where this symptom is present, the cellular tissue cover- ing the psoas or iliacus internus muscle, or the parts lying beneath Poupart'a ligament are affected. _ Suppuration being established, the matter may point in different situations. Of 70 cases seen by the author, 37 ended in suppuration, with discharge of pus; 24 of these burst or were opened externally; viz., 20 in the iliac region, 2 above the pubes, i in the inguinal region, and I beside the anus ; 6 wei'e discharged per vaginam, 5 by the anus, and 2 burst in the bladder. The author has never known a puerperal pelvic abscess burst into the peritoneum. " The most rapid and satis- factory cases were those in which the matter discharged itself, in the iliac or supra-pubic regions. Enoi'mous purulent cysts were thus obli- terated within ten days after the puncture ; while in other cases, where the abscess was smaller, three or four days sufficed to bring about a similar result." On this point, however, the author's opinion is con- trary to that held by other writers, especially M. Becquerel. In the only two fatal cases seen by the author, death occurred from dysentery following the bursting of the abscess internally into the bowel. Thirteen cases are related, as illustrating the principal points of im- portance in the disease, and the author concludes the memoir with remarlis on the treatment. Absolute rest, in the physiological sense of the word, is strongly insisted upon in all stages of the disease, " without which all other treatment will prove nugatory. These cases almost always issue in the recovery of the patient; but they extend over a long period,—from three to four months being their average duration. Until resolution has taken place, or until the tumoin'has become chronic, the patient should observe the recumbent position." In the acute and sul- acute stages the local abstraction of blood by leeches to the seat of pain, is strongly recommended, with warm fomentations, light diet, and opiates, if necessary; a warm iiip bath in the evening, the greatest care being taken in moving tlie patient, and if she have been recently deli- vered, the vagina should be syringed twace a day with warm water. In the subacute stage, small doses of the bichloride of mercury are sometimes useful, with the addition of the muriate of morphia, if there be any tendency to diarrhoea, but the author has seen little benefit derived from the use of the iodide or bromide of potassium. When all fever and pain have subsided, and the tumour only remains, the Ung, Plumbi lodidi or the Ung. Hydrarg. maybe used, but should be at once suspended if any pain be caused by their employment. The treatment must be perseveringly continued for some time, and great prudence must be used in allowing the patient to get up. "This should not be attempted till all signs of inflammatory action in the tumour have completely disappeared." In the chronic stage, quinine, iodide of iron, and cod-liver oil are the remedies most relied on by the author. A gene- rous diet, with a moderate amount of stimulants, may be allowed; butDISEASES OF WOMEN. 399 the eflfects of tonics and of full diet should be carefully watched, since there is danger of over-stimulation. Pure air, however, " is the best of tonics," and from this change, if it can be safely enjoyed, the patient will derive the greatest benefit. The cases where the catamenia reappeared all ended in recovery, and had no relapse. It is almost needless to add, that sexual intercourse must be strictly prohibited as long as any vestige of the disease remains. If the disease should pass into the suppurative stage, the treatment must be directed with a view of hastening forward the abscess, supporting the woman's strength, and alleviating any promi- nent symptom that may be present. During this stage the patients often become much exhausted, especially from diarrhoea, and the difficulty in the treatment is to administer the necessary support without over-stimulating the patient, and so increasing the fever Avhich is always present to a greater or less degree. The tenesmus, which is generally a distressing symptom if the abscess be point- ing in the rectum, and after it has burst into the bowel, will be best relieved by enemata or suppositories of opium. The dysentery wliich supervenes in these cases will be the more profuse and unmanage- able, the higher the point of communication between the abscess and the gut, and to check it the most careful treatment, dietetic and medi- cinal, will be required. On the propriety of opening the abscess, the author observes :—" Where the abscess points externally, an artificial opening is desirable, but this should not be made till the matter is near the surface. A free opening should be made with the lancet, and it is better to let the matter exude spontaneously, or, at least, to make only very gentle pressure." If, however, the abscess tend towards the vagina, be prominent and distinctly fluctuating, and causing much dis- tress, the bistoury may be used, though the author believes it better to let it burst of itself when pointing in this situation, and this was the course almost invariably adopted in his cases. M. B16t, in a treatise on the " Slowness of the Pulse in the Puerperal State," arrives at the following conclusions. 'Archiv. G6u. de M^d.,' Sept. 1863. (a) Healthy lying-in-women in general have a pulse which has become more or less slow. (J) Three series of observations, made in the Clinical Institution and iu the Hotel Dieu, prove that the frequency of this phenomenon necessarily alternates with the state of health of the patient. In the physiological condition, the slowness of the pulse seems to be a general fact connected with the emptying of the uterus. It only varies in degree. It is not connected with the disposition, peculiar to many women, of always having a slow pulse, for tliose women on whom the observations were made possessed the ordinary physiological frequency of the pulse except during the puerperal period, (c) The degree of slowness of the pulse varies greatly. In 3 cases it fell to 35 pulsations in the minute, most frequently it varies between 44 and 60. _ From 21 observations tlie author concludes that food exercises no influence upon it. {d) This condition is more frequently found with multiparse than with primipara), which may be explainedIIEPOIIT ON MIDWIFKEY, ETC. 400 by the greater frequency of puerperal attacks among the latter, (e) The duration alternates between a few hours, and lo or 14 days; generally the longer it continues the stronger it becomes, presupposing that tlie patient continues well. (/) The course is almost always the same. It begins generally in the first 24 hours after birth, then becomes always more considerable, remains uniform for a time, and again gradually disappears. It often exists even very distinctly at the time when the milk-fever,—falsely so called,—is said to come on. (g) The duration of the labour seems to have no influence upon the development and the degree of this condition of the pulse; on the con- trary, the slightest pathological condition prevents its occurrence and removes it. It is observed after miscarriages, premature labour, and labour at the full time; and after natui'al and artificial delivery. Even violent after-pains do not remove it, but the same is not applicable to any but slight haemorrhages. (7i) Position has a marked effect, and a very considerable change occurs when the patient removes from the recumbent into the erect position, (i) This slowness of the pulse in- dicates a very favorable prognosis. It is only found with women in perfect health. In a hospital its frequent occurrence indicates an excellent state of health, while its rare occurrence should cause us to fear the appearance of diseases and epidemics. {¥) The cause of this slowness of the pulse does not lie in a nervous exhaustion :—the inves- tigations on the pulse which the author made in conjunction with Marcy, much more clearly point to its connection with an increase of the arterial tension after birth.EEPOET OS TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. BY C. HILTON FAGGE, M.D., DEMOKSTBATOE OF ANATOMY AND LECTUEEE ON EXPERIMENTAIi PHILOSOPHY AT cry's HOSPITAL ; PHYSICIAN TO THE EOYAL INFIE3IARY FOR THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN. DIALYSIS. De. Haevey gives an account of some experiments made by him, with reference to the detection of poisons by dialysis ('Lancet,' 1863, vol. i, p. 6). The metallic poisons, mercury, antimony and arsenic, were of course easily found by this process, even in organic liquids. It was, however, found that in the case of organic poisons mixed with " colloid " substances, sufficient amorphous matter passed through the membrane to obscure, and in some instances to render nugatory, the application of the colour-tests. This was the case, for example, in an experiment in which some strychnia was mixed with three eggs, and the mass was then submitted to dialysis; but on concentrating the fluid, and then extracting the strychnia by ether, the colour-test was successfully employed. No reaction was obtained by this process from the stomach (with its contents) of a man poisoned by opium ; but it is not stated Avhether the ordinary methods of analysis gave a better result. Cossa (' Gaz. Med. Ital. Lombard.,' 1862; Canstatt, Band vii, p. 66) finds that the dialyser need not be kept in the external fluid more than a quarter of an hour, when arsenic is the poison sought for. Morphia and phosphorus are also capable of detection by this method. MECHANICAL IHEITANTS. Pereles ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' No. 32, p. 254) relates the case of a woman, sc-t. 34, who on account of disordered digestion swallowed a quantity of coarsely powdered glass, in order to " scour out" her stomach. Intense pain in the stomach came on, with tenderness; the pulse became small, too in the minute, and there were thirst 26KKl'ORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATEIIIA MEDICA. 403 and pallor of countenance. An emetic was given, and part of the glass was rejected. Afterwards stimulants and aqua lauro cerasi were em- ployed ; the next day the urgency of the symptoms had passed off, and she completely recovered. SULPHUBIC ACID. A series of papers on poisoning by sulphuric acid, from observations made in the clinique of Prof. Trericlis in Berlin, published by Maukopff in the ' Wien. Med. Woch.,' (i86a, pp. 558, &c.; 1863, pp. 180, &c.), contains several observations of interest. Five cases are recorded. The first and second cases are those of female servants, each of whom swallowed a mouthful of the dilute acid (one part of "English" acid in six) ; both these cases terminated in recovery. The first patient stated originally that a man had poured a burning fluid into her mouth ; the truth of this was doubted, because the poison had evidently been swal- lowed, and the next day the girl confessed that she had taken the acid of her own accord. The third case, also that of a female, who took a mouthfid of (? dilute) acid, was fatal in eight weeks. The next case, that of a youth who took a mouthful of strong acid, was doing well when the report terminated. The last case is that of a woman who swallowed a quantity of dilute acid, and who died in twenty-eight hours. The main symptoms were those ordinarily observed in similar cases, but some points were also noticed to which attention has not been previously directed. Besides the matters vomited and those regurgi- tated from the Q3Sophagus, there was abundant discharge of fluid, con- taining at first blood and afterwards mucus, from the buccal cavity. This was probably in great measure secreted by the salivary glands, owing to the irritation of the nerves of the mucous membrane of the mouth, as in the experiments of Bernard and others. In the fourth case suppurative parotitis occurred on the left side at the end of the sixth week. The salivation had then long ceased; and the inflamma- tion is ascribed to extension of the swelling of the mucous membrane (which still existed) into Steno's duct, consequent obstruction of its cavity, accumulation of the secretion, and ii-ritation of the gland—the chain of circumstances being exactly similar to that which causes mam- mary abscess. Swelling of both parotids on the foiu-th day of a poison- ing case had already been noticed by Sebregondi. The difficulty of swallowing, slight at first, gradually increased, and was greatest at the time when the altered mucous membrane sepai-ated and exposed the superficial ulcerations beneath. It appeared to be caiised partly by the swelling of the subjacent tissues, partly by spas- modic contraction of the muscular fibres of the throat. The pain was most severe behind the larynx, and it remained there longer than else- where. In the fatal cases this part was found to be most aftected by the poison. "When the oesophagus was completely obstructed, the gas- tric symptoms disappeared lor a time, to return the first time anything was swallowed and reached the stomach. The local action of the poison usually ceased at the oesophagus. In one case slight blackish spotsSULPHUKIC ACID. were observed in the duodenum, and in another small cicatrices. The ileum and colon were found inflamed in Case 3 ; but this aflec^on was quite recent, and probably was caused by the marasmus. The larynx was affected more or less in four cases; in the third case cica- trices were found in its posterior wall. CEdema glottidis was feared in two cases, and the instruments for tracheotomy were got ready. It •was observed, however, that the dyspnoea became much less when the patient was placed upright and made to cough, and examination with the finger showed that there was no great swelling; so that it vras evident that the alarming symptoms Avere caused by the buccal fluids flowing backwards into the larynx. The trachea and bronchi were found partly covered by a croupy membrane in Case 5, and lobular pneumonia was also present, which may have been caused by portions of the membrane getting detached and being carried down into the larger tubes. The blood examined in one of the cases during life was alkaline ; twa days after death in this instance it was found to be neutral, and as decomposition came on it became acid. A feebly acid reaction was observed in the muscles and also in the brain-substance in the fifth case. An increased quantity of sulphuric acid was found in the ui'ine in Cases 3, 4 and 5. It appeared to be in combination partly with lime, partly with alkalies. The excess would probably be greater than it is, ii the destruction of the mucous membrane of the stomach did not retard the absorption of the acid into the blood. The greatest increase occurred within five hours after the poison was taken, and it had disappeared by the fifth day after that time. Albumen was found in the urine in the last three cases, in the others it was not looked for. In two cases transparent casts containing fine detritus-granules were also observed. Like the excess of acid, the albumen reached its maximum five hours after the ingestion of the poison, and it disappeared in two of the cases on the second day; in the other case on the third. Its presence is accounted for by ascribing it to a change in the diffusion-relations between the blood and the kidneys, caused by the presence of the sulphuric acid in the blood, and by its passing into the urine. In the third case the urine was found to be again albuminous on the ninth day and in the fourth case on the twentieth. Cylinders containing granules of urates, and on one day blood-discs, were also noticed ; and after death the cortical substance of the kidney was found inflamed, with swelling of the interstitial tissue. The uriniferous tubules contained detritus ; the epithelium was opaque from the presence of fine granules. Another effect not hitherto described was intercostal neuralgia. In the second case it was observed in the position of the sixth to the tenth ribs on the riglit side on the third day; in the fourth case at the same spot in. the fourth week. In the third case it was bilateral, afterwards affected the lumbar nerves also, was accompanied by hypersesthesia, and was followed gradually by extreme sensitiveness of the whole body. Physical examination showed that there was no disease of the chest in these cases. The tliree points of greatest intensity, insisted on by Yalleii,. were well marked; and as the neuralgia occurred in each case at theREPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 404 time when the ulceration of the oosophagus and stomach was most intense, and disappeared when that morbid process diminished, it is clear that it was due to reflected impressions, caused by irritation of the nerves of those parts. Dr. Heginbothom ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' vol. i, 1863, p. 183) relates a case of poisoning by six drachms of sulphuric acid, of sp. gr. 1-848, diluted with eighteen drachms of water, which was fatal in two and a half hours. The symptoms were those of collapse. There was neither vomiting nor purging. Stringy mucus and froth were dis- charged from the mouth, and dark-brown foam from the nostrils. The tongue and fauces were white, the oesophagus thrown into folds, brown, and ha^^ng a tesselated or worm-eaten appearance ; there was no breach of surface. The stomach contained a pint of black, acid, tenacious fluid, and was lined with a firmly adherent, black, gelatinous coat. The rapi- dity of the death M as explicable partly by the drunken habits of the man, and partly by the fact that the stomach was empty when the poison was swallowed. NITRIC ACID. Wunderlich ('Arch. d. Heilk. Vierordt,' Heft ii, 1863, p. 183) records a case of poisoning by a teaspoonful of concentrated nitric acid. The usual effects occui'red; but on the second day they were followed by dysenteric symptoms and by suppression of urine, which continued till death. This was preceded also by delirium and unconsciousness, and took place on the eighth day. The ordinary appearances produced by the acid were found in the throat, oesophagus and stomach. The mucous membrane of the small intestine was healthy; but the whole of the large intestine, from the csecum to the anus, was inflamed, as in dysentery, and presented extensive false membranes and ulcers. Both kidneys were enlarged, their surface yellowish-white, adherent to the capsule, covered with ecchymoses; their coi-tical substance twice as thick as in the natural condition, bloodless, with a spotted yellow-white appearance. The epithelium of the uriniferous tubules was opaque and finely granular ; no casts were seen in their interior. The bladder was empty. JHOSPHORTTS. Numerous papers on poisoning by phosphorus are to be found in the foreign, and especially in the German, journals for the past year, which fully confirm the modern views of the similarity of the symptoms with those of acute atrophy of the liver, and of the rapidity with which fatty degeneration of almost all parts of the body occurs in these cases. M. Bucquoy (' Un. Med.,' 1863, No. 81) relates a case of this kind, in which even the brain was found in a state of fatty degeneration. He also remarks that it contained an enormous quantity of phosphorus. M. Lancereaux (' Un. Med.,' No. 82) goes over the whole subject, and relates four cases which support the new views. E. Wagener (' Wagner's Arch.,' 1862, iv ; Canstatt, Band vii, p. 67) publishes a case of phosphorus poisoning in a girl aged thirteen. Fat was found in the parenchyma of the liver, in the renal cpitlielium, inPH0SPir01lU3. the tissue of the lungs, in the organic muscular fibres of the intestines, in tlie muscle of the heart, and in the abdominal muscles. The question whether many cases of supposed yellow atrophy of the liver are not really caused by phosphorus is especially discussed in this paper. Karajan relates an instance which is a good illustration of the danger of overlooking this condition. A man, aged twentj^-five, came and said that he had swallowed the substance scraped from the matches con- tained in three packets. He was in a cafe at the time, and went on drinking beer and wine. He said that the first effect produced was vomitnig, which came on after six hours, and was repeated ten or twelve times. On his admission, twelve hours after taking tlie poison, all that he complained of was headache, anorexia, and thirst; dryness of the palate, with a metallic taste; and a slight burning sensation, not amounting to pain, and extending down the oesophagus into the stomach. The throat was somewhat red and the stomach rather tender; nothing else could be discovered to cause uneasiness; and, as the man was known to be a liar, the truth of his statement was considered extremely doubtful. One packet of matches, without heads, was found in his home. The stools and vomited fluids contained no phosphorus or phosphoric acid, but much pliosphate of magnesia. In the faeces the phosphate of ammonia and magnesia was also found. Magnesia had been given freely as an antidote. No lead was detected, though this metal usually is present in the matches. Serious symptoms, however, slowly manifested themselves. On the third day jaundice appeared, with tenderness of the hypochondrium and slight enlargement of the liver. On the seventh day this organ extended below the ribs by the breadth of a pleximeter, but on the evening of the same day it was found to have diminished in volume. There was also some blood in the fajces on the fourth day and later. On the sixth day the urine was thoroughly examined. Albumen was discovered in considerable quantity ; biliphjein and uro-erythrin were also present, and the phosphates were in excess. On the seventh day somnolence with incoherence of speech came on. The tongue was dry and black, the skin hot; at night he was obliged to be restrained, being delirious. The next morning he was unconscious, with a pulse of 132 in the minute ; respirations slow. Tonic cramps tlien came on in the legs, and the ankles were extended. Later there were spasms of the arms also and trismus, and he died in convulsions at 4 p.m., 190 hours after taking the poison. The usual appearances were found in this case. Extravasations of blood in the connective tissue of the neck and mediastinum; ecchy- mosia of the base of the heart. Liver small, withered; acini made lip of fat-globules of different sizes; few of the hepatic cells still visible. Spleen unaltered in size, of rather an elongated form ; some of its ele- ments converted into aggregates of fatty globules, and fiitty molecules found clinging to the trabeculaj. Alimentary canal containing a tarry- fluid in its upper part. Numerous ha>morrhagic erosions in the pyloric extremity ot the stomach. The cortical substance of the kidneys swollen ; uriiiiferous tubules filled wibh fat-granules. Accordin<y to Karajan, other substances, which have a chemical resemblance to phos-4.06 UEPOET ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATEllIA MKDICA. ■phorii8, produeo similar changes in the liver. He refers to a case of supposed acute yellow atrophy of that organ, fatal in twenty-four hours after the patient's admission into the hospital. On poat-mortem exami- nation, a considerable quantity of arscnious acid was found in the stomach; but at the same time the liver presented the patliological appearances which had been expected. He also cites the fact that ;antimony is given to geese, in order to produce the fatty liver in them {'Woch. d. k. k. Ges. d. A. in Wien,' Nos. 20—27, 186,3). E. Fritz, L. Eanvier, and J. Verliac ('Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1863, vol. ii, p. 25), give two cases of a similar kind. One is that of a girl, £Et. 25, who took the paste scraped from about sixty lucifer matches, containing phosphorus. Symptoms of imtant poisoning followed, with convulsive attacks, apparently of an hysterical kind. There was no jaundice. She died at the end of seventy-seven hours. At the autopsy the usual ecchymoses'were found beneath the visceral pericardium, in the subpleural tissue, and in the mediastinum. The liver was of normal size, but its tissue was in an advanced state of fatty degeneration, no cells being visible in a thin section. The cortical tubes of the kidneys were filled with fat-granules; this was the case also to a less degree in the pyramids. The Malpighian tufts and capsules, on the other hand, "were perfectly healthy. The other case is that of a woman who died six davs after eating a rsalad in which a large packet of matches had lain for an hour, having fallen in accidentally. In this case an icteric tint of the skin was ob- served. The cells at the periphery of the hepatic lobules were loaded with fat; those in their centres were healthy. The kidneys were less affected than in the first case; the heart, on the contrar^^, was more fatty. The muscular fibres of the tongue also contained fatty granules. "The authors performed some experiments on cats and rabbits, giving them the paste from lucifer iiiatches made into an emulsion with yolk of egg. In animals which died after forty to sixty bours the same changes were observed as have been described in man. Dr. E. Maukopff ('Wien. Med. Woch.,' 1863, Nos. 26—32) gives a fuU account of three cases of phosphorus poisoning which occurred in the clinique of Prof. Frerichs. In one case the paste from the heads of 1000 matches (containing ten or twelve grains of phosphorus), in another three times that quantity, was swallowed. It is remarkable that one of these persons had swallowed the paste from 500^ matches previously without any effects being produced, though in some instances thirty or forty have been known to kill. The liver was very carefully examined in one of these cases. It was much enlarged, and its substance was made up of two portions, the one red, the other of a bright-yellow tint, which were sharply separated from each other. In the yellow parts the hepatic cells were enlarged and rounded, and contained numerous fine, fatty gi'anules, but no globules of fat. The connective tissue between the acini was increased in thickness, and that between the cells was much more distinct than m the healthy organ. This was still more marked in the red portions, and the presence of numerous fatty granules showed t-liat the tissue was begm- cing to undergo retrograde metamorphosis after its rapid growth. TheseALKALIES AND ALKALINE EAETHS. 407 pai'ts, in fiict, presented in every respect a more advanced stage of the affection than the yellow. In them the line fat-granules had coalesced into masses, and even into globules of fat, and tlie walls of the hepatic cells liad disappeared. This change commenced in the periphery, and passed gradually towards the centre of the lobule; and the wasted condition which occurs in the later stages of the disease was shown by the surface of the liver being depressed opposite the parts which were red. The blood in this case was dark, and coagulated imperfectly after death. The corpuscles were normal in appearance. The urine, though slightly acid, deposited crystals of ammonio-phosphate of magnesia. Maukopif remarks that the hepatic affection produced by phosphorus ought not to be called a fatty disease, but an acute, diffused, parenchymatous in- flammation. It exactly resembles the acute yellow atrophy; and since the enlarged spleen, the fatty heart, the ecchymoses in the areolar tissue of various parts, and the cerebral symptoms which precede death, ocdu* in both conditions, he suggests that the disease of the Uver only is produced by the poison, and that the affections of other parts are secondary. In one of his cases albumen was not present in the urine till two days after the jaundice and hepatic affection had been observed, and this fact supports Maukopff's opinion. ALKALIES AND ALKALIITE EAETDS. Alkaline oarhonates.—Mauricet (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, No. ,3, p. 11) has made an experimental investigation into the action of alkalies upon animals, and has arrived at the following conclusions. The tolerance of alkalies depends on their elimination by the kidneys, the virine being rendered alkaline. The bicarbonate of soda is much more slowly excreted than the bicarbonate of potass, and therefore its administra- tion cannot be borne for so long a time. It appears in the urine unchanged, whereas the potass salt was once found in a small quantity of urine converted into chloride of potassium. The ingestion of either of these salts always leads, in animals, to the presence of carbonate or bicarbonate of ammonia in the urine. When carbonate of ammonia is given to animals, its elimination is very rapid. Grreat increase of the appetite is among the effects of its administration in large doses. It was not found to produce any excite- ment nor any nervous affection, nor disorder of the digestive tract. It was not detected in the urine, nor did the most delicate tests show its presence in the air expired. The administration of alkalies did not appear to diminish the quan- tity of the solid constituents of the blood, nor the amount of urea in the urine; the animals became somewhat thin, but this was probably due to their taking less food in consequence of its being mixed with the salts. Dr. Wilks and Dr. Taylor ('Guy's H. Eep.,' vol. ix, 1863, p. 173) relate a case in wliich a drachm and a half of nitrate of potass was administered daily in three doses during thirty-three days. The urine was increased in quantity under this treatment, sixty-four ounces beinw passed in one day. The amount of potass contained in it was more408 UEPORT ox TOXICOLOGY AND MATEEIA MEDICA. tlian twice as great as in the healthy secretion. Crystals of nitre were obtained on evaporating the urine, and the presence of nitric acid wa& also proved by chemical tests. Carbonate of soda.—Dr. Haines (' Pliarm. Journ.,' vol. v, p. 26) gives the results of his investigations on the nature of a crystalline substance found near Aden, which contains 51 per cent, of neutral carbonate of soda. It is found along the coast for an extent of, perhaps, ten miles ; and its quantity appears to be practically unlimited. It usually occurs iu hollows beyond high-water mark, to which sea-water has had access by percolation. Ilitherto it has only been used to increase the pungency of snuff. It is probably produced by the action of chloride of sodium 'on the carbonate of lime which forms the shingle at this spot, but the con- ditions of this decomposition are not yet known, and this appears to be the first observation of the natural production of alkali from sea- water without organic agency. Bitartrate of potass.—M. Suter (' Journ. de Phar. et de Chim.,' p. 486) uses a dilute hydrochloric acid, consisting of equal parts of the ordinary acid and of water, for the purpose of dissolving out the bi- tartate of potass from crude tartar. In this way the formation of chloride of potassium is avoided, which was observed by Liebig to take place when the strong acid was employed. The solution is made by the aid of heat; and as it cools, crystals of the bitrartate are deposited from it, which only require washing, to free them from any adhering hydrochloric acid. The mother-liquor is used several times in succes- sion, till it becomes loaded with the salts of lime and iron. Citrate of mar/nesia.—M. Martin ('Bull, de Ther.,' Ixiv, 1863, p. 505) says that, in examining a specimen of English " citrate of magnesia," with the object of discovering the cause of its greater solubility and pleasantness, as compared with the French salt, he found it to consist of a mixture of bicarbonate of soda and citric acid. M. Letter, of Brussels (' Journ. de Phar. et, de Chim.,' p. 383) pre- pares the citrate of magnesia in the following manner. Twenty parts of citric acid are powdered, and are then mixed intimately witli twelve parts of the carbonate of magnesia. The powder which results is left to itself; it gradually undergoes chemical change, and forms a spongy mass. At the end of about four or five days, if a little of it be thrown into Avater, it will be found not to efiervesce. It is then dried at a temperature of 30° C.; it is reduced to powder, and must be kept in well-closed vessels. Eather a longer time may be required for the com- plete formation of the salt than that given above; the test of the com- bination being fully effected is tlie cessation of effervescence. Citrate of magnesia prepared in this way is perfectly soluble in water, and does not, like the ordinary salt, undergo in the course of time any change by which part of it is rendered insoluble. Salts oflarijia.—Onsum ('Virchow's Archiv,' xxviii, p. 233) made a series of experiments with the salts of baryta on animals. IToppe Seydler had found tliat a dog died a fortnight'after the administration of carbonate of baryta, witli niimerous hremorrhagic spots in the lungs, the tissue of which was already breaking down. The object of the paper is to show tliat the poisonous action of tlicse salts is exertedAllSENlC. 409 primarily on the lungs, and that particles of an insoluble mineral com- pound become precipitated within the blood, and cause impaction of the branches of the pulmonary artery. Carbonate of baryta was given to a rabbit in increasing doses. "When the quantity amounted to three grains daily, symptoms first appeared. Five hours after the poison was swallowed the animal was found lying motionless, with the respiration much quickened. Sensation appeared to be diminislied. The difficulty of respiration and the paralysis in- creased, and the temperature fell, till in six hours the animal died. Small coagula were found in the branches of the pulmonary artery, which under the microscope were seen to be crowded with inorganic particles. Portions of the lung-substance were firm, not crepitating, and redder than the normal tissue. Miliary ecchymoses were found on the surface of the lungs, and also in the stomach. Other experiments gave similar results. Baryta was detected chemically in the lungs in every instance, and in the liver once; never in the brain, spinal cord, kid- neys, or muscles. Granules of sulphate of baryta appear to be deposited in the blood, in consequence of the reaction of the sulphates contained in that fluid with the soluble salt of baryta absorbed, but the presence of fibrin is necessary for these granules to become aggregated into masses. If carbonate of baryta be placed beneath the skin of a rabbit, so that the animal cannot get the poison into its mouth by licking, no effects are produced; and the substance is afterwards found encysted or enclosed in an abscess. But chloride of barium, being soluble, acts as a poison when applied endermically, and its effects are best studied in this way, for death is not then so rapid. It is admitted that wlien the baryta salt is given in a large single dose, these characteristic appearances are not to be discovered. Convulsions were never observed among the effects of salts of baryta, though it is not denied that they may occur when the dose given is very large. The symptoms always commence in the lungs, the respiration becomes quicker and less deep, and the inspiratory murmur is inaudible ; the heart's action, however, becomes more fre- quent. Afterwards restlessness is noticed, with loss of power, which at last amounts to paralysis. Exactly similar efi'ects were produced by the administration of oxalate of ammonia to rabbits. The appearances found after death are also the same. Oxalic acid is detected in the lungs, and oxalate of lime crystals are contained in the coagula which occupy the interior of the pulmonary artery. ARSEIflC. Kebcr ('Casper,' xxiii, p. 271; xxiv, p. 131) records ten cases of poisoning by arsenic, some of which present points of interest. The first is that of a man and his wife, to whom the poison was repeatedlj'- administered in small doses, producing transitory irritant symptoms. After a time both began to suff'er from ansosthesia of the hands and feet, so tliat pricking and pinching them produced no effect. They also complained that their limbs felt as if they did not belong to them. In addition, the man suff"ered from muscular weakness, flnding it difficult to rise from his seat, and walking in a heavy, clumsy manner, as if hisUKPOllT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATKllIA MEDICA, 4.1:0 feet were loaded with weiglits. The streugtli of liis liandH waa also impaired. The jnusculur actions of the woman Avere less aiiected. Schaper has recorded Bimilar sj'mptoms among the effecta of arsenic, and the probability that they arose from this cause in the present instance is, of course, increased by the resemblance which the two cases bore to each other. Another caae, which ran an acute course, is re- markable, because the patient, a girl, complained of no pain, though she suffered from diarrliam and vomiting. She Avas pregnant; and when the body was exhumed, the foetus was found lying between the thighs, with part of the membranes within the vagina. There is every reason to believe that its expulsion took place after the corpse was placed in the colBn. No trace of arsenic could be detected in the embryo. The duration of the mother's illness Avas fifty hoirrs. The question arose in a third case whether asiatic cholera Avas not in part the cause of death, there being at the time an epidemic of that disease. Casper ('Vjschrft.,' xxiii, p. 193) gives the details of a case in Avhicli two persons Avere convicted of murder, on account of the death of a Avoman under suspicious circumstances, in which he shows that the death was probably due to natural causes. The most prominent symp- toms were headache and drowsiness. Casper states that arsenic pro- duces cerebral symptoms only Avhen taken in a large dose, and immediately absorbed. In this case, however, only traces of arsenic Avere said to have been found in the viscera ; and no serious vomiting or diarrhoea had been present, by which the poison could have been removed from the body. Koffler C Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' p. 93, 1863) records the poisoning of 138 persons by arsenic, in consequence of a miller having washed his mill-stones with a solution of that substance in vinegar, and afterwards used tbem for grinding corn. One case only was fatal, that of a man, 65 years old. A pustular eruption was observed in many of the patients; it occurred over the whole body, but especially on the face Zenger (' Bull, de la Soc. Chim.,' ' Union Med.,' No. 62, 1863) recom- mends, for the detection of arsenic in organic compounds, the process of distillation with pure hydrochloric acid. Sulphuretted hydrogen gas is then passed into the distillate, and the sulphuret of arsenic so obtained is converted into arseniate of soda by nitric acid and nitrate of soda. The novelty of the process appears to be in the mode of obtaining the ring of metallic arsenic from the arseniate. Ten times its weight of oxalate of soda is added to this salt, and a little brick-dust to colour it. The mixture is then introduced into a tube tAvo to four millimetres in diameter, and above it is placed some pure oxalate of soda. To this white substance the heat is lirst applied. When it is fully decomposed tiic tube is sealed at the end prcA-iously open, and the red powder in the bottom of it is then heated. The arsenic which it con- tains is thus reduced under pressure, so that no loss of it can take place, and a Avell-defiued ring of the metal is obtained. Dr. Odling ('Jouni. of the Chem. Soc.,' July, 1863, p. 247) remarks that in testing the purity of the copper gauze or foil used m Ecmsch 3 process it is onlv necessary to act on four or five grains of copper, smce411 ARSENIC. tbe quantity of it dissolved in the application of Reinscli'a test is so small as to be scarcely appreciable. He recommends that the copper, cut into fine pieces, be placed in a small tube-retort, with an excess of hydrochloric acid, and so mucli ferric hydrate or chloride, as contains a proportion of iron double that of the copper used. Heat is then to be applied, when the whole of the copper is dissolved. On distilling to dryness, any arsenic present in the copper passes over as chloride. The distillate may be dissolved in a little dilute hydrochloric acid, and tested with sulphuretted hydrogen or pure copper gauze. The reason for using ferric chloride is that this agent does not give oft' any chlorine gas when heated with hydi-ochloric acid, as is the case when other oxygenants are used. If chlorine be generated, it passes over into the receivers, and prevents the immediate application of the tests to the distillate. Cupric oxide or chloride, on the other hand, is scarcely active enough for this purpose; and the solution of copper in hydro- chloric acid, brought about by mere exposure to the air, is exceedingly tedious. It may be well to add that ferric chloride may itself be ren- dered quite free from arsenic by evaporating it once or twice to dryness ■with excess of hj'drochloric acid. Millon and Commaille ('Journ. de Pharm. at de Chim.,' Aug., 1863, p. 97) advise for the complete purification of copper from all traces of arsenic the foUoAAong process, which is stated to be more effectual than even the deposition of copper by the galvanic current. The metal to be purified is dissolved by ebullition in commercial sulphuric acid, diluted with half its weight of water. All the arsenic present, whether derived from the acid or from the copper, is deposited in a black powder (known as the oxysulphuret of copper), on which boiling sulphuric acid has no action. Thus the sulphate of copper formed is quite free from arsenic. Its aqueous solution can be poiu-ed off" from the black powder and crys- tallized. The salt still contains iron, and often zinc, but it may be com- pletely separated from these metals by deposition by a galvanic battery. Dr. J. Davy ('Ed. New Phil. Journ.,' vol. xviii, No. i, p. 42) has visited the Whitbeck stream in Cumberland, and confirms the state- ments that its water contains arsenic in the proportion of "008 grain to the pint. The people did not appear to be in any way affected, either for good or evil, by the use of the water. It had been asserted that those who came to the place suffered at first from soreness of the throat, but of this he could find no evidence. No fish exist in the stream ; and Dr. Davj^ mentions the instance of Ullswater, where the chaiT has completely disappeared, apparently in consequence of the water of a lead-mine, which he has found to contain arsenic, flowing into the lake. He also says that, as had been previously stated by Mr. Church, no ducks can be bred in the village. The vegetation on the banks of the stream appears to be quite unaflfected. He did, indeed, notice a maple some of the branches of which were dead, but the cause of this was quite uncertain. M. Pecholier ('Eev. Mt'd.,' p. 500, 186.3) relates to the Academy of Sciences some experiments made with the object of determining"the412 llEPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATKUIA MEUICA. effects of tartar emetic on animals. It did not exert a uniform contra- stimulant influence. The depressing action on the circulation, respira- tion, and nervous system, though tlie most striking, is not the most constant of its effects. "When given in a dose of "15 to 6 grains, it at first augments the rapidity of the pulse and respiration by a tenth, and produces a little nervous excitement. This state lasts fifteen or twenty minutes. It is not observed wlien the dose is very large (15—30 grains), and when no vomiting occurs. It is followed by a period of depression ; the pulse becomes slower, and the respiration also; the temperature is lowered, especially on the surface; and there is a marked collapse of the nervous functions. This stage has a mean duration of three or four hours ; it is never absent. Succeeding it a state of reaction is observed, in which the pulse and respiration again become somewhat more rapid than in health, and the temperature rises. This febrile condition appears to be caused by the organic lesions which are found after death, and it is generally fatal. If the dose be either very large or very small, it does not occur. The nervous symptoms observed in these experi- ments were connected chiefly with sensation; the motor power of the muscles and nerves, though diminished, was less affected. On post- mortem examination of the animals experimented on, irritation and in- jection of the stomach and intestines, and also of the liver, kidneys, brain, and muscles, were observed. The antimony was detected in the liver. The blood was always diffluent, especially when the poison had been given in large doses. Comparing tartar emetic with ipecacuanha, Pecholier finds that the latter causes a more rapid depression, which very soon threatens life, but passes off quickly, and is not followed by the same dangerous reaction. The antimonial action, on the other hand, is slower, more profound, more lasting, and, when a certain limit has been passed, progresses almost certainly to death. It does not, like ipecacuanha, destroy the glycogenic function of the liver; on'the other hand, ipecacu- anha does not produce the diffluent condition of the blood, nor the con- gestion of the lungs, which are fouud after the administration of the antimonial salt. lEOiir. Mr. Gury (' Jotirn. of Pract. Med. and Surg.,' Jan., 1863, art. 6372) draws attention to the decomposition which occurs in mixtures contain- ing syrup and an aqueous solution of sesquichloride of iron under the influence of light. The iron salt becomes reduced to a protochloride, and the cane sugar of the syrup is converted into grape sugar. Hence such combinations, which Mr. Grury thinks very valuable, cannot be kept, and must be freshly prepared. Under certain circumstances solutions of the sesquichloride of iron also have a peculiar action on gum. A cloudy appearance results on mixing them, and in a few hours one half the mixture is converted into a caseous paste. Tliis eflect is pro- duced only when these substances are combined in certain proportions. If the quantity of the iron salt be either too great or too small, tlie mixture remains undecomposed. M. Toucher ('Union Med.,' No. 42, 1863) recommends the use of413 JfANGANESE. niauna iu preparing pills of proto-iodide of iron. A mass so made always reiiiaius of a pasty consistence, and the iodide is found to retain its green colour, and not to undergo any cliemical change. M. Leroy (' Journ. de Phar. et de Chim.,' p. 275) has investigated the cause of the change in the hydrated sesquioxide of iron. This substance, when recently prepared, is light and flocculent, but, as is well known, after a time it becomes heavy, and it has then lost the power of combining with arsenious acid, so that it is useless as an antidote for that poison. This change was shown by Lefort to depend on an altera- tion in its chemical composition. Its formula becomes ^FegOg, 3HO, instead of l^.fi3> HO. This alteration has been regarded by some as merely the effect of time, and by others it has been attributed to exposure to the air and to the action of light. According to Leroy, it is simply the effect of cold. He has a specimen which has been kept ten years without undergoing any change. It has been freely exposed to the sunshine; in the summer it has been allowed to have the tem- perature of the air, but in the winter it has been maintained uniformly above the temperature of 12° C. It still retains the power of combining with arsenious acid. About 15° C. is the best temperature to ensure the permanence of this preparation; below 12° C. it tends to undergo change. M. Smedt (' Joiu'u. de Phar. et de Chim.,' p. 485) prepares a substance "which he believes to be a definite iodide of quinine and iron in the fol- lowing manner. He adds tincture of iodine to a concentrated solution of the sulphuret of barium. The precipitate of sulphur is removed by filtration, and a concentrated and slightly acid solution of sulphate of quinine in alcohol is mixed with the liquid. Sulphate of baryta now goes down, and iodide of quinine remains dissolved in the spirit, forming a yellow liquid, A concentrated solution of iodide of iron is now pre- pared, the quantity of iodine being in the proportion of one part to two and a half of the sulphate of quiniue originally used. This is added to the solution of iodide of quinine, and the mixed fluids are heated in a water bath. Finally, the liquid is filtered and crystallized. The salt forms long needles of a beautiful yellow colour. It is completely soluble in boiling water, and is not deposited as the liquid cools. It is also soluble in the cold in alcohol and ether. It has not yet been analysed. It has no smell, but possesses a bitter and ferruginous taste. M. Josi (' Comptes Eendus de Ferrare,' ' Presse Med. Beige,' No. 7, 1863, p. .38) speaks highly of the insoluble tannate of manganese, prepared by the decomposition of the sulphate of the protoxide of manganese by the alkaline tannate of potass, as an antiperiodic and febrifuge. It is not bitter, and therefore it is especially suited to delicate persons and children who cannot bear quinine. Its dose is two grammes (gr. xxxj) fop an adult.UKPOllT ON" TOXtCOLOOY AM) MATEUI.V WEUICA. 4.11 BISMUTH. In order to detect the presence of arsenic in the nitrate of bismuth, Dr. Herapath ('Phar. Jour.,' 1863, p. 304) recommends the reduction of the salt by hydrogen. The vessel used for generating the gas is connected ^vith a tube of suitable diameter, which is drawn out at cer- tain points, so as to narrow its calibre. It is also carefully counter- poised, and heated at different parts by spirit lamps. When the purity of the hydrogen evolved has been ascertained, about twenty grains of the nitrate of bismuth are poured into the gas bottle. It is usually necessary to add a little more hydrochloric acid, after which the evolution of hydrogen goes on rapidly. In this way three or four films of metallic arsenic may often be obtained from this quantity of impure nitrate of bismuth. Dr. Herapath finds that arsenic is con- tained in almost all specimens of the commercial salt, and its proportion may amount to i part in 433. The question appeal's to have arisen in a recent case of arsenical poisoning in "Wiltshire, whether the arsenic could have been derived from this source. At least an ounce of impure bismuth must, however, have been taken on this supposition, to account for the arsenic found in the viscera of tlie poisoned person; and all this bismuth must have been evacuated, for scarcely one twentieth of a grain of it was foimd. There is some reason to believe that the salts of bismuth also often contain thallium. The best method of purifying the insoluble preparations of bismuth from arsenic is to boil them with caustic potash or soda. In this way the arsenious acid is dissolved out; and after repeating the process and washing with water, the residue is free from this impurity. It now consists, however, chiefly of oxide of bismuth, and it is necessary to dissolve it in nitric acid, and to reprecipitate it by the addition of water or of carbonate of soda, according as the' nitrate or carbonate is desired. The liquor bismuthi of Mr. Schacht, of Clifton, is a transparent solu- tion, a dj-achm of which, containing a grain of the oxide of bismuth, is said to be as effectual in gastric diseases as fifteen grains of the insoluble nitrate (' Lancet,' 1863, vol. ii, p. 49). COPrEE. Two cases of colic, caused apparently by poisoning ^vith copper, and occurring in boys who worked with the metal, are recorded by the ' Bull, de Ther. (vol. Ixv, p. 80). The pain was attended with slight constipation. It was much less severe than that of lead colic. The black line on the gums was distinct in each case, and in one the gums were also swollen and ulcerated at their edges. Both patients recovered in a few days. Milk was given to them, and this was the only treatment employed. M, Llovet ('Uu. Med.,' 1863, No. 14, p. 219) prepares cylinders of sulphate of copper for use as a caustic, by mixing two parts of the powdered salt with one part of alum, fusing them gently over a spiritTHALLIUM. 415 lamp, and pouring them into a bronze mould. The object of adding the alum is to prevent the water of crystallization of the sulphate of copper being driven off by the heat. It is essential that the mould be made of bronze, lest the copper be deposited in the metallic state. The c^dinders so obtained are transparent, and of a bluish-green colour. MEECrBX. Mr. Lowndes ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' vol. ii, 1863, p. 195) relates a case of poisoning by turbith mineral (subsulphate of mercury). The patientj a healthy adult, appears to have taken rather less than a di'achm of this substance. A burning sensation in the throat and vomiting soon followed, and afterwards purging and pain in the epigastrium, with cramps of the limbs. Ten hoiu-s after, the tongue was still of a greenish- yellow colour in the middle, evidently the result of local contact with the powder. Under the administration of opium, vomiting and purging ceased, but tenesmus remained for some time. The gums began to be sore thirty-six hours after the poison was taken, and slight salivation came on; but in three or four days the patient was able to return to his work. Pedrolli ('Union Med.,' jN'o. xlii, 1863) recommends the following combination in obstinate syphilis :—Three grains of iodide of arsenic are dissolved in 1900 grains of water by the aid of a spiritlamp, and six grains of biniodide of mercury, with fifteen grains of iodide of potassium, are added to the solution. The dose is at fii'st four drops daily, and is increased by two drops each day till eighty are given. Mr. Haines ('Phar. Journ.,' p. 363), writing from Bombay, advises the disuse of the Hydrargyrum cum Greta, at least in India. At the or- dinai-y temperature of that country the metallic mercuiy volatilizes ; and at the same time some proto.xide and peroxide are formed, so that the powder acquires a dirty salmon colour. In one specimen examined not a trace of metallic mercury was left, but there were 2-16 per cent, of the protoxide, and 39*48 per cent, of the peroxide. THALLITTM. Lamy ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, No. 104; 'Schmidt,' 1863, Ko 11, p. 181) relates that, while experimenting on this new metal, he ex- perienced pains accompanied by the greatest lassitude, especially in the lower extremities. In animals, even after small doses, he has noticed paralysis of the posterior limbs, feebleness, and A'iolent pains, which appeared to have their seat in the intestines, and to be momentarily relieved by pressure and friction on the abdomen. Death occuiTcd in sixty-four hours, or in a few days. Neither vomiting nor purging was noticed in the whole course of the affection, and no evidence of inflam- mation, or of other changes, was discovered on post-mortem examination of these animals. In a dog the bladder was distended; in some cana- ries the serous membranes, and especially that covering the liver, were granular, and had a whitish appearance. The thallium was detected by the spectroscope in the muscles, and still more in the intestines and in the white-looking serous membranes. It was not found in the teeth. ItREPOllT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA XilCDICA. 41G is fortunate tbat wc possess so delicate au indication of the presence of n poison tlie eliects of wliich appear as yet to be obscure. MINEUAL WATEBS. M. Petrequin (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 484) recommends the method of repeated congelation for the purpose of concentrating mineral waters. EbuUitiou in the open air has the disadvantage of destroying the organic substance (baregine, glairine), to which part of the efficacy of these remedies is ascribed; it also drives off the gases contained in them, and probably alters the composition of the salts ; and even evaporation in vacuo expels the gases. Congelation is, therefore, to be preferred to either of these methods. OBGANIC SUBSTANCES. Fii/nijfi. M. Humbert (' Joiirn. de Chim. Med.,' vol. ix, p. 263) observed the effects produced by partaking of a fungus in a family of four persons. Two children vomited freely, and recovered. The father fell into a state of profound coma; tetanic symptoms and paralysis of deglutition ■were also observed; but recovery took place under the use of strong injections of coffee. The mother suffered from symptoms of cerebral excitement, among which was incessant loquacity. The coffee did her no good; but the application of leeches, on the following day, led to her restoration to health. Dr. Mitchell ('Brit. Med. Joum.,' 1863, No. 130, p. 672) records two cases of poisoning by mushrooms. In the one the following effects were produced. A burning sensation, with constriction, extended down the pharynx; the abdomen was much distended; the stomach was irri- table, but no actual vomiting occurred ; there was slight purging; the sight was dim, and all the objects seen had a Blue coloiu". In the other case drowsiness and giddiness were the only symptoms observed. Both patients recovered after the administration of an emetic, but nervous twitchings remained for some days. The Amanita muscaria and the Boletus luridus were found among some of the mushrooms which had not been eaten. M. Lafargue ('Journ. de Chim. Med.,' 1863, vol. ix, p. 74) relates three cases of poisoning by fungi, the Agariciis hiliostis being probably the species which produced the symptoms. About ten hours after eating them, one of the patients, a man aged thirty-eight years, was seized with pains in the epigastrium, extending over the abdomen. He also complained of nausea and vomiting, and he was purged. Collapse came on, and he died in thirty-eight houi-s after the first appearance of the effects of the poison. It was observed tbat, seventeen hours after death, decomposition had already set in, as showm by the fetid odour of the body. The case occurred, however, in the second week of September. The wife of this man was attacked with similar symjjtoms, but re- covered. Another man, who had eaten only one of the tungi, suffered from vomiting and diarrhoea for some days.417 ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. Melaiithacea. Dr. Edwards ('IMed. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, p. s) records a case of poisoning by the veratrum viride, in the person of a scientific chemist, who took, experimentally, a drachm of the tincture, a dose equivalent to twelve grains of the powder. A sense of uneasiness was soon expe- rienced; and a little later, pain in the lower part of the abdomen, nausea, and alarioiing vomiting. After the contents of the stomach had been ejected, glairy mucus and blood were thrown up. Cold sweats also came'on; the features became sunken, the skin cold, and the pulse could not be felt. An ounce and a half of pure brandy was given hiui, which checked the vomiting, and he rallied a little ; the pulse was then feeble and irregular, forty-four in the minute. After an hour he fell asleep, and on waking, at the end of a quarter of a hour, appeared comparatively well. There was no diarrhea at any time. All tliat the patient remembered afterwards of the most severe period of his symp- toms was hearing and recognising the voice of one of bis medical friends. Immense circles of a green colour appeared round the candle, which, as vertigo came on and he closed his eyes, turned to red. He had two or three times a slight return of the symptoms, and did not sleep during the night which followed. M. Trapp, of St. Petersburg (' Bull, de Ther.,' vol. Ixiv, p. 545) has noticed that on boiling for some time the colourless solution of verati'ia in concentrated hydrochloric acici, it gi'adually acquires an intense red colour, resembling that of the permanganate of potass. Warncke ('Hosp. Tidende,' No. 6, 186,3 ; 'Schmidt,' No. 10, p. 39) relates a case of poisoning by a wine-glass and a half of viu. sem. colch. occurring in a boy fourteen years of age, who swallowed it by mistake for Madeira, though it tasted disagreeably. During the whole day after taking the poison he remained well, but late in the afternoon he was found to have no appetite for dinner. Vomiting and purging (jf rice-water stools then set in, and pains in the limbs and thirst were also complained of. During the night he could not sleep, and suffered from headache and from vomiting of the water which was given to relieve his thirst. The medical man was not called in till the next morning. The child was then in a state of collapse, with clammy sweat on the surface of the body. The extremities cold, the lips and tongue bluish, the face pale and blue. The fingers spasmodically flexed, but in a state of constant movement. There was no tenderness of the abdo- men ; but a sense of uneasiness at the epigasti'ium was complained of. In the afternoon of the same day the vomiting ceased, but the cramps continued; and according to those who saw the child before death occuiTcd, they assumed a tetanic form. Warncke gives an analysis of nine other fatal cases of the same kind, recorded by lloux and Casper; he also relates some which terminated favorably. He thinks that the effects of colchicum are divisible into two classes—the gastro-enteric and tlie spinal. The gastro-enteric symptoms include pain andburnino- in the throat and a-sophagus, pain and tenderness of the abdomen, and rapid collapse. The spinal symptoms resemble those of cholera; they 27llEPOUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATlilllA MEDICA. -1.18 are in fatal cases always accompanied by symptoms belonging to the first group. Important cerebral disturbance does not occur in cases of poisoning by tliis substance. Tho headache and delirium which are observed are subordinate eiiects. Solanacece. Dr. Hayden ('Dubliil Quar. Journ.,' Aug., 1863) records a case of poisoning by the berries of the Atrojpa belladonna, in which the early symptoms of excitement, with unmeaning laughter and staggering gait, were well marked, so that the condition resembled alcoholic intoxica- tion. An emetic of mustard was given, and afterwards coffee; but in spite of this treatment, coma came on. As this passed off there Avas a second period of excitement, the patient shouting, singing, laughing, and crying alternately, and trying to get out of bed. The case ter- minated in recovery ; at the end of the third day the only effect which remained was slight dilatation of the pupils. Dr. Hayden has repeated the experiments of Mr. "Wharton Jones, from which it was concluded that belladonna acts as a stimulant to the vaso-motor nerves, and thus leads to contraction of the walls of the vessels. He finds, however, that this effect is not produced if the sentient nerves of the part to which the belladonna is applied be first divided. He therefore argues that the contraction of the vessels results from a reflex, and not from a direct action. So, also, the dilatation of the pupil would be caused by con- traction of the dilator fibres of the iris, through the sympathetic, the stimulus being carried to the centres by the fifth nerve. M. Behier relates a case of poisoning by thirteen milligrammes (nearly a fifth of a grain) of atropine in an old man aged 75 years. In three hours a state of " deep coma " had developed itself'; the pupils, how- ever, though insensible, were only moderately dilated, and the patient answered unintelligibly to questions asked in a loud voice. Ten drops of the laudanum " of Sydenham " were then given every ten minutes ; fifty drops in all. The iris then began to contract slightly when exposed to the light, and the patient heard better, and even uttered a few intelli- gible words. Soon after all the opium was given an incessant move- ment came on in all the limbs, with hyperaesthesia. Twenty drops more of the laudanum were administered after this; the patient gradu- ally recovered, and by the fifteenth hour was pretty well. ('Dnion Medicale,' 1863, No. Ixxxv). Two other cases of poisoning by belladonna, in which opium was used as a remedy, are to be found in the journals of 1863. Like the pre- ceding case, they are not of a very conclusive kind. One is a case which occurred in Italy more than twenty years ago, and is believed to be the first in which opium was employed as an antidote. It is related in the ' Gaz. Hebd.,' p. 235. A drachm of a solution of the extract of belladonna, the strength of which is not stated, was taken, and j^ro- duced severe effects. The administration of a drachm of Tinct. Opii relieved all the urgency of the symptoms. Mr. McNaniara ('Dub. Quar. Jour.,' 1863) records the other case, one of poisoning by the extract of belladonna, in a child two years old. Delirium and ddata-ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 419 tiou of the pupils were the principal sj'mptoms. Tincture of opium was given; at first five minims, and afterwards two minims every hour. The child fell asleep about ten hours after the treatment was com- menced, and the case terminated favorably. The quantity of the poison taken could not be ascertained. Dr. H. Ploss (' Ztschrft. f. Med. Chir. u, Geb.,' vol. ii,Heft 4, p. 177) relates an instance in which three grains of the sulphate of atropine, mixed with two drachms of lard, were applied to a recently blistered surface. The ointment was soon removed; but death nevertheless occurred iu about two hours. Loret ('Jour, de Brux.,' xxxiv, p. 162; 'Schmidt,' Jan., 1863, p. 24) recommends that, instead of employing extracts of belladonna and of similar plants, the resinoid substances which they all contain should be sepai-ated and used. These spoil much less quickly than the ordi- nary extracts, and they are also much more uniform in the amoimt of alkaloid which they contain. M. Pi'octer (' Jour, de Phar. et de Chim.,' p. 384) obtains atropia in the following manner. A pound and a half of the root of the bella- donna are placed with alcohol in a displacement-apparatus till seven pints of tincture have passed through. An ounce of slaked lime is then added to this fluid, and the mixture is allowed to stand twenty-four hours, care being taken to agitate frequently. It is then rendered slightly acid by a sufilcient quantity of sulphuric acid; and after filtra- tion it is evaporated down to a weight of two and a half ounces. A fatty substance separates, and forms a crystalline pellicle on the sur- face. Three ounces of water are then added to it. It is thrown on a filter, and the residue is washed, till the liquid weighs altogether eight ounces. An ounce of chloroform is then shaken up with it, which ex- tracts the sulphate of atropine. Another ounce and a half of chloroform are added to this, with enough potash to make the liquid feebly alka- line. After shaking and allowing the chloroform to subside, it is sepa- rated, and the atropine crystallizes out by spontaneous evaporation. It must be redissolved in alcohol containing a little animal charcoal, and must then be recrystallized. By this process the amount of atropine obtained is about one third per cent, of the weight of the root of bella- donna employed. Dr. Shortt ('Madras Quart. Jour, of Med. Sci.,' April, 1863, p. 286) records three cases of poisoning by the fresh plant of the Datura stra- monium, which occurred in India. Two of these cases terminated fatally, one of them in about three and a half hours. In this case at least three ounces of the leaves appear to have been swallowed. Dr. McVeagh ('Dub. Quar. Jour.,' Ixxi, p. 126) gives an account of the use of the Dattira tatula in asthma. The bruised seeds and the dried herb are mixed in equal proportions and then smoked. It gives relief in cases where stramonium has failed; and it is more antispas- modic and less narcotic than that plant. It also rarely produces headache, or gives rise to dryness or constriction of the fauces. An extract (dose, gr. ss to gr. iss) and a tincture, made by digesting one part of the herb in eight parts of proof spirit (dose, Dl^xx to 5j) are alsa useful.lueroiiT ON ToxicoLOcy and matkria jucuica. 420 Tobacco.—Ur. E. Smith ('Lancet,' vol. i, 186.3, P- 292) relates some experiments performed on two friends of his own, which show tliat smoking produces, after six minutes, an increase in the rapidity of the pulse, amounting at tlie twentj'-first minute to thirty-seven and a half pulsations per minute. After prolonged smoking, the pulse was found to remain above the natural standard. Gomolvulaceo}. Dr. Beruatzik publishes in the 'Med. JahrbUcher' (Wien, 1862, 1863) a complete description of the pharmaceutical characters of the different varieties of jalap. Since the breaking out of the American ■war, the supply of this drug has been less. Its quality also is inferior, and the root of the Ipomcca Orizabensis, the " light or fusiform " jalap of Guibourt, known in Germany as the " stipites Jalapo?," is moi*e fre- quently substituted for it. Two varieties of the true jalap, the tuber of the Exagonium purga, are described—the one rounded, the other elongated in form. The structure of the last of these is very similar to that of the false jalap; its vascular bundles are, however, less developed. The starch-granules of the true and false jalap are different. Those of the root of the Ipomcea Orizabensis are small; they are also quite opaque; they are barrel-shaped, and grouped in pairs; or they are triangular or quadrangular, and arranged in masses of three or four; they have rarely a globular form. They are not laminated, and present but few fissures. On the other hand, the starch-grains of the true jalap are considerably larger ; thej'- are so transparent that they look like vesicles of water ; they have one or two well-marked horseshoe shaped clefts, and they present concentric lamellae. These differential characters enable the powders of the two drugs to be easily distinguished from each other. The resins may be distinguished by their different solubilit}'' in ether. In Vienna the one is frequently substituted for^the other. The latex (Milchsaft) or resiniferous juice occurs in all the tissues of both kinds of jalap. Its quantity is generally pi'oportionate to that of the starch, while it is least abundant when the tuber contains much woody fibre and cellulose. An exception occurs in the case of the date- and pear-shaped pieces of the true jalap, which^ contain much starch and but little of the juice. These appear to be young tubers which were succulent and well nourished, and which have therefore become much wrinkled during the process of drying. The thinnish cylindrical pieces consist chiefly of bundles of woody fibres, with but little parenchyma, and that in a lignified state. They contain but little starch or latex, which is much more abundant in tlie well-developed, spindle-shaped, and knobbed pieces. Of the specimens of false jalap, the light, porous pieces contain less juice than the thicker, which, indeed, are equal in this respect to the true jalap. The starch-granules are in a formed condition in these drugs, with the exception only of those which occupy the centre of certain very compact pieces of both the kinds of jalap. Their position indicates that their formless state is not caused by the application of heat during the process of desiccation. The colour of the external surface of tlie drug depends upon the point to which this process has been carried, not on the amount of resin; but a yellow and gray tint of the cut sur-421 ORGANIC SUBSTAKCES. face is au indication that the latex is abundant. Bernatzilc thinks that the resin and starch are produced together from some third substance in plants in a state of vital activity, while in badly-nourished plants it is converted into woody fibre and cellulose. Hence, he believes that cultivation favours the formation of latex and starch ; and he thinks that the larger part of the jalap of commerce comes from plants which have been cultivated for tlie purpose. A series of experiments was made by him on his pupils, for the pur- pose of ascertaining what is the smallest dose of jalaji which acts as a purgative. This effect was first produced by a dose of fourteen grains, and was never wanting when the quantity given exceeded a scruple. A mean dose of i7'8 grains produced, on the average, two evacuations. A mean dose of 2'6 grains of the resin produced the same efiect. Bernatzik concludes that the root is more active than would be expected from the amount of resin which is present in it. He supposes that this arises from the root containing the resin in a more finely divided state, so that it is more easily acted on by the intestinal fluids. That the resin is the only purgative principle in the tuber is shown by the fact that seven drachms and a half of the powdered drug, from which the resin* had been completely extracted by alcohol, produced no effect when swal- lowed in three doses at intervals of four hours, beyond some gastric uneasiness after the last dose. Slight and transient nausea and colicky pain were produced in most of these experiments, besides the purgative effect. The smooth date- and pear-shaped tubers were found equally active with the rounded, knobby forms; but those pear-shaped ones which were shrivelled pro- duced less effect, a mean dose of twenty-two and a half grains being required to purge. This variety of the drug often resembles withered pears so exactly, that one can believe the statements that this fruit has been used as a substitute for the tuber. The thin, stalk-like masses are remarkably deficient in purgative action, though the quantity of resin which they contain is large. Of the two substances of which the resin is made up, the part insoluble in ether (convolvulin, rhodeoretin) is by far the more active. When pure, it is white, tasteless, and resembles gum-arabic in appear- ance. A dose of 2"2 grains is the smallest which acts as purgative. The other substance, pararhodeoretin, which is soluble in ether, is com- paratively inert; and tlie effects which it does produce are shown by Bernatzik to depend on its containing some convolvulin. This para- i-hodeoretin forms the greater part of the resin of the stalk-like speci- mens of jalap, and this accounts for their slight purgative powers. It is considered to be the same substance as the rhodeoretin, but in an imperfect state. Some experiments were also made to test the value of the false jalap the resin of which is said by Spirgatis to be identical with that of scam- mony. Twenty-two and a half grains of the powdered drug, and three grains of the nearly pure resin, were found to be the mean doses, which produced two evacuations. The best Aleppo scammony to be obtained in Vienna was found to be comparatively inactive. Nearly half of it was left undissolved by422 llEl'OltT ON TOXICOLOGY AND 3IATEUIA 51EDICA. alcohol. Three aud a half grains of its resin were required to produce the same eflect as in the other experiments. It is therefore less active than the resin of the false jalap, while that, again, is inferior to the resin of the true jalap. The commei'cial Smyrna scammony produced no ■effect when given in doses of six to twenty grains. In conclusion, Bernatzik remarks that the statement that jalap-resin causes severe griping pains is incorrect. He did not find the resin of jalap a more certain purgative than the root, nor did it appear to have a more irritant action on the stomach and on the intestinal tract. The notion that the administration of jalap is not followed by constipation is without foundation. Many of the persons experimented on who took the jalap only twice complained afterwards of costiveness, which lasted •even for weeks. Gentianacece. Ludwig and Kromeyer ('Phar. Jour.,' vol. v, p. 185) have succeeded in isolating the principle to which the gentiana lutea owes its bitter taste. They made an alcoholic extract of the fresh root. This was dissolved in water, and animal charcoal Avas added, which removed the bitter principle. The charcoal was then treated with alcohol; the tincture was evaporated; the residue was freed from precipitable matter by oxide of lead, which was itself thrown down by sulphuretted hydrogen. The solution was then evaporated to a syrup; and on agitation with ether, the bitter substance, to which the name of gentio-picrin is given, is deposited. It is a crystallizable, neutral substance, readily soluble in water and alcohol, but not in ether. Its formula is C4oH3(,024. CompositcB. Artemisia absinthiim.—Mr. W. Smith (' Proc. of Med. and Chir. Soc.,' vol. iv, No. 3) records a case of poisoning by about half an ounce of the oil of wormwood. The drug acted as a narcotico-acrid, causing insensibility with convulsions. The jaws were firmly fiLxed, and foaming at the mouth was among the symptoms observed. There was also a tendency to vomit. Emetics, as well as stimulants and de- mulcents, were employed in the treatment of the case. The man recovered; it is remarkable that afterwards he had no recollection of taking the poison, nor of the cause of his doing so. CincliomcecB, Mr. Howard (' Pharm. Jour.,' vol. v, p. 74) gives a very favorable report of some bark from the Cinchona succiruhra, grown in India, which had been sent to him for examination. The amount of alkaloids which he obtained from bark of the second year's growth was 3-30 to 3*40 per cent. Of this quinine and cinchonidine made up 2*40 per cent. Cinchonine (which crystallized freely) formed o-6o per cent., tlie remainder being chiefly water of the hydrated alkaloids. The product of fine quills of the South American red bark is 3*60 per cent. TheORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 4-23 Indian bark was also fonnd to contain kinovic acid, kinate of lime, gum, cinchona-red, &c. Bark of one year's growth yielded only 2-59 per cent, of alkaloids, which appeared to contain considerably less ciuchonine than the older specimen. Mr. Howard thinks that it will be advisable to cut the bark as soon as the stem has attained a thickness which will repay the expense of cultivation. It would be disadvantageous to allow the bark to reach such an age as is indicated by many of the specimens from South America, for a process of deterioration, connected with the oxida- tion of the red colouring matter, appears to be continually going on. Quinine was also obtained from the dried leaves, though only in very small quantity. A decoction or infusion of them may therefore be very useful in the cure of local fevers, though they cannot be used for the extraction of the alkaloid, in consequence of its implication with resinous matter. The leaves contain a considerable amount of kinovic acid. Mr. Howard believes that the alkaloids are produced by a re- action between the " mother substance " found in the heai't-wood, and carried up into the leaves by the circulation of the sap, and the ammo- nia, which, according to De Vry, is present in every part of the plant. The cinchona-red appears to be formed at the same time, and the pro- cess, begun in the leaves, probably goes on afterwards in tlie bark. M. Lautemann (' G-az. Med. Beige,' No. 44, 1863, p. 353) finds that quinic acid is converted into hippuric acid in the human organism. Having swallowed two drachms of quinate of lime overnight, he ana- lysed the urine passed in the morning, and obtained from it nearly thirty-four grains of hippuric acid. Benzoic acid is probably an inter- mediate stage in the metamorphosis; this acid may be obtained experi- mentally by the action of hydriodic acid or of iodide of phosphorus upon quinic acid, and it is well known to be convertible within tlie human body into hippuric acid. Dr. Kerner ('Schmidt,' 1863, No. i, p. 22; 'Sep. Abdr. aus der Ztschr. f. Anal. Chim. v. Fresenius,' 1862) says that the ordinary pro- cess for testing sulphate of quinine for the other cinchona-alkaloids (by means of ether and ammonia) is not free from the liability to error. The ether sometimes assumes a gelatinous condition, and when it con- tains air may have an almost crystalline appearance, which may mislead the observer. Moreover, there are cinchona-alkaloids which, though isomerous and partly also isomorphous with quinidine, differ from it in other properties, and are far more soluble in ether. Kerner, therefore, proposes another test, foimded on the fact that caustic solution of ammonia dissolves quinine very easily, while quinidine is much less soluble, and (3 and y quinidine are scarcely, and cinchonine not at all, acted on by it. The test is applied to saturated solutions of the suspected sulphate of quinine in water. If a small amount only of the other alkaloids be present, the effect may be increased by treating a large quantity of the salt to be tested with a limited quantity of water, since tne sulphates of cinchonine and quinidine dissolve more readily in water than the sulphate of quinine. The 'Union Mdd.' (No. 72, 1863) gives an account of three pre- parations of cmchona made by M. Ossian Henry. They are—(i) the standard wine of cinchona of constant composition; (2) the wine of424 HEl'OllT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATOULV MEDICA. cjndiona and iron, in which the addition of diastase prevents the pre- cipitation of the iron salt by the tannic acid of the cmciiona; and (3) a wine of cinchona and iodine, in whicli the iodine is first combined with sugar by a process of substitution, so that it docs not decompose the wine of cinchona. It is stated that all these three preparations arc free from the bitter taste of quinine. Buhiacea;. M. Pecholier has made a scries of experiments with ipecacuanha on animals; the results at which he has arrived are given in a pamphlet upon the subject, and also in the ' Gaz. Med.,' 1862, i, p. 744, and in the 'Med.-Chir. Eev.,' Oct., 1863, p. 436. His object was not to study the vomiting produced by ipecacuanha, nor the changes in any particular organ or function to which it gives rise, but ratlier tlie action exerted upon the living organism as a whole. Introduced into the circulation, carried into intimate contact with the tissues, and bringing its influence to bear on all parts of the body, it produces complex effects, of which we may avail ourselves in therapeutics. Some have ascribed to ipecacuanha a tonic action; others have said that its effects are of a contra-stimulant and depressing character. It was especially to the solution of this question that the observations of Pecholier were directed. He employed in these experiments animals of two kinds— rabbits, because, as they cannot relieve themselves of the drug by vomiting, secondary effects are the more surely produced; and frogs, to trace the action of this substance upon the nervous system. Emetina in the soluble form, as chloride, was chiefly iised in these researches ; but ethereal, alcoholic, and watery extracts of ipecacuanha were also employed. The alcoholic and watery extracts have the same action as emetina; but the ethereal extract has none of its properties, though it resembles ipecacuanha in its offensive action on the smell and respira- tion. Children are often tlu'own into violent fits of anger by taking the ethereal extract; but it affects different people very differently. Pecholier's conclusions as to the action of this remedy, derived from more than fifty experiments, are as follows:—(i) It produces a con- siderable decrease in tlic number and energy of the contractions of the heart. Under doses of emetina of one twentieth to half a grain, the pulsa- tions of the rabbit's heart, previously 160—200, fell to 120—100, and even to 92. (2) Equally marked is the diminution of the frequency of the respirations; having' been about 1^0 per minute, their number became 50, 40, or even 32. The lungs of those rabbits which died or were killed while under the influence of the drug were found to be remarkably pale, and to contain much less blood than those of healthy animals. (3) A fall in the temperature, amounting to i—27° Cent., was observed in the mouth, ear, and axilla. In the rectum, on the other hand, the temperature was stationary, or rose by o'^ or o";° Cent. (4) Constant efforts to vomit were made, evidenced by energetic con- tractions of the diaphragm and of the abdominal muscles. These efforts appeared to be the cause of a reaction, which was sometimes observed, but whicli did not last more tlian three or four miuutes.425 OUGANIC SUBSTANCES. After death tlie stomach and the upper part of the small intestine were found injected. The remarkable lact that the glycose had disappeared Jrom the liver was also observed. (^5) The activity of the nervous sys- tem was decreased. There was collapse. The functions of the sensitive nerves were destroyed, while those of the motor nerves, and the con- tractility of the muscles, were impaired, but not completely annulled. Tliese points were determined by the experiments on frogs. The animals were poisoned with emetine, and then decapitated. It was then found that pinching the skin produced no reflex contractions, while galvanic irritation of the lumbar nerves, and of the muscles themselves, gave rise to distinct movements, though these were far less considerable than those excited in a healthy frog after decapitation. From these experiments, Pecholier concludes that ipecacuanha has a contra-stimulant action upon frogs and rabbits. It may be doubted whether it produces exactly similar efiects in the human subject, and lie admits that this is a matter of inference rather than of certainty. If the drug be employed in small doses, the reaction which follows the vomiting may produce secondary phenomena of excitement. But if doses of half a drachm to a drachm be given in four ounces of liquid, in the form of infusion, the elFects are almost always depressing. This remedy is, therefore, recommended in the treatment of pneumonia. It has long been used in this disease at Montpellier; it is found to reduce the intensity of the lung disease, either by its depressing action, or by the copious diaphoresis which it produces, and which brings about a crisis in the malady. Toleration of the remedy, when given in these large doses, does not always occur. Sometimes each teaspoonful causes nausea, with incessant vomiting and great prostration; and these effects may even render it necessary to stop its administration. Pecholier infers, from the pale and bloodless condition of the lungs in the rabbits experimented on by him, that ipecacuanha exerts a specific action on the lungs; but, as is well remarked in the ' Med.-Chir. Eeview,' it must not be assumed that the same thing occurs in the human subject, in whom free vomiting takes place, which may render the condition of ihe pulmonary organs altogether different. Indeed, Magendie and Pelletier found an inflammatory state of the lungs in dogs to whom they gave this drug. The rabbits experimented on by Pecholier re- covered from the depressing action of the ipecacuanha with extraordi- nary rapidity, when they did not die. Animals in a state of complete collapse, and with the heart's pulsations reduced to one haJf, returned to their normal condition in from half an hour to an hour. When death took place, it occurred in from eight to twenty-five minutes after the poison was given. JRosacece. Braycra anthelmintica.—M. Bedall ('Presse Med. Beige,' 1863, No. 44, Oct. 18th) has succeeded in isolating the active principle of this plant, to which he gives the name of koussine. It is a white or yellowish crystalline powder, without odour, but possessed of a bitter, pungent laste. It appears to have acid properties. The formula assigned to•1'26 UEPOUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEUICA. it is CggHggOg. It is an energetic vermifuge, and expelled the taenia ■when given in doses of a few centigi'ammes. Leguminosw. During the past year the properties of the Calabar bean, the seed of the Physosiigma Venenosum, have attracted much attention. The power vifhich this agent possesses, of causing contraction of the pupil, •was first noticed by Dr. Eraser, of Edinbui'gh ; and a full account of the botanical characters of the plant from which it is obtained, and of the form, appearance, structure, and physiological properties of the seed, is given in an inaugural dissertation by Dr. Eraser, published in the 'Edinb. Med. Journ.' (July—September, 1863). The Fliysostigma Venenosum is a climbing plant, which grows in the district of Calabar, on the west coast of Africa. The seed appears to be the only poisonous part of it; experiments made with the stem on animals have given only negative results. The bean is about an inch in length and three quarters of an inch in breadth, of an irregularly reni- form shape, and of a shining brown colour. As it is brought to this country, it is generally covered with earthy matter, so that it haa a greyish appearance. Its w^eight is about sixty-three grains. The kernel is the most active part of the seed; it consists of the two concavo-convex cotyledons; it is of a creamy-white colour, and easily broken in a mortar or cut with a knife. AVhen a small fatal dose of it is given to animals, the following effects are observed. A slight tremor is first seen, commencing posteriorly, and extending forwards to tlie anterior extremities and head. The animal then becomes paralysed, the hind limbs being first aifected; and it soon lies extended, with all its muscles flaccid. A few unsuccessful attempts to recover its usual position are often made. In some cases the ^bowels are evacuated of their contents. The pupils then contract; the respiration becomes slow and irregular; a stertorous noise accompanies both the inspiration and the expiration, and frothy mucus escapes from the mouth. Slight mus- cular twitchings occur, especially in the extremities. No reflex move- ments are produced by either pinching or pricking the skin, and after a time the eyelids do not contract when touched, or even when the eye- ball is pricked. "When the animal is lifted by its ears the limbs hang inert, and the only sign of life is an occasional gasping inspiration. This soon ceases, and the animal appears dead. So long as the paralysis is incomplete, proofs of sensation may be obtained by pinching the ears or pricking the skin. It is certain that consciousness is preserved, at least as long as the power of expression remains. Immediately after death the pupils dilate. On opening the body the muscles which are cut contract, and movements are easily excited by irritation of the nerves. The heart is found beating regularly, and the intestines exhibit distinct vermicular actions. The movements of the heart may continue for an hour and a half after death. The viscera are generally congested. There is nothing peculiar in the post-mortem appearances found. When a much larger dose of the kernel is administered, paralysis4.27 0RGA2IIC SUBSTANCES. occurs almost instantly. The animal lies flaccid on the table, and exhi- bits muscular power only by a few twitches ; after a few gasps the respira- tions cease. The contraction of the pupils during life, and their ddatation after death, are observed in these cases also. The heart is, under these circumstances, found distended and passive; contractions may, however, at first be produced by irritation of the organ. The vermicular action of the intestines is much diminished. No muscular contractions can be produced by pinching the motor nerves. These effects are the same whatever be the channel by which this agent is introduced into the body. It has been injected into the blood, and it has been placed in contact with a wounded surface, or with the muscular and nervous tissues. It has also been placed in the stomach and rectum, in the serous cavities, and on the surface of the various mucous membranes. No effects were, however, produced in the rabbit by its application to a surface of skin denuded of the cuticle. The spermoderm of the bean, which is remarkably hard and tough, is also poisonous. When placed in hot water, it becomes soft, but cold water has no action on it. When gi\ i—iv of the alcoholic extract of this part of the seed, answering to from sixteen to sixty-fom* grains of its substance, are placed in the areolar tissue of a rabbit, effects are produced similar to those observed when the kernel is used. The con- traction of the pupils is not, however, complete ; the iris always remains sensitive to light. This part of the bean also produces diuresis and evacuations of watery fieces. The paralysis is strikingly sliown by the inability of the limbs to support the body, and by the trembling move- ments of the head. These effects were recovered from in from two to three hours. In no instance did death follow the administration of the spermoderm. The alcoholic extract of the kernel was also found to exert a topicaFparalysing influence, when applied to a dissected living muscle or to any part of the intestines. When the poison was injected into one of the cavities of the heart the action of the organ ceased, but applying the extract to the surface of the heart caused only a temporary suspension of its action. When placed in contact with one eye it caused contraction of the pupil, and the effect was limited to the eye to which it was applied. Dr. Praser shows that the effects of the Calabar bean are those which, according to LegaUois and P. Wilson, are produced by agents which act primarily on the spinal cord. He ascribes the contraction of the pupil to paralysis of the nerves which pass from the medulla to the dilator fibres of the iris. The action of the bean appeared so exactly the oppo- site of that of strychnia, that it was thought desirable to test its powers as an antidote to that alkaloid. A poisonous dose of strychnia was, therefore, given to a full-grown rabbit; and when its action had been decidedly produced, a poisonous dose of the extract of the physostigma was injected into the flank. All convulsions in the hind limbs ceased at once, and they became flaccid; but rigidity and violent spasms occurred alternately in the anterior limbs and the fore part of the trunk. Shortly afterwards the animal died. Wc have at present only an imperfect knowledge of the effects of this agent on man. It is estimated that r 20 persons are killed annually by itsKEPOllT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATEniA AlEDICA. 12S use, iu i rial Ly ordeal, at Caliibar. Swallowing the bean in this way is said to bo followed by violent thirst, paralysis of deglutition, and convulsive movements, afl'ecting especially the muscles of the back. Death occurs at the end of about half an hour, without being preceded by loss of consciousness. The cjuantity of the bean administered as an ordeal is variable; sometimes the kernel is given entire, sometimes an infusion is prepared. In the cases in which recovery takes place nausea is (piickly produced, and is followed by vomiting. The accused is then at once declared innocent. No fatal case of poisoning by this drug has yet occurred in this country. Doses of five to twelve grains have been taken by Dr. Fraser, Dr. Christison, and others. In about five minutes a peculiar sensa- tion comes on in the epigastrium, which gradually increases in intensity. Then repeated eructations occur; and a feeling of dyspnoea, dizziness, weakness of the extremities, twitches of the pectoral muscles, and dim- ness of vision, arc among the other effects noticed. The heart may become irregular and tumultuous, and the number of its pulsations may notably decrease. These symptoms gradually pass off. "When the extract is placed in contact with the conjunctiva it imme- diately causes a copious secretion of tears, and in about five minutes a distinct contraction of the pupil occurs, which is limited to the side to which the drug is applied. In half an hour the pupil is a mere speck, but still retains a certain degree of mobility. Slight headache, with dimness of vision and myopia, generally occur; but these effects soon pass off. The contracted state of the pupil lasts for twelve or fourteen hours, and it may not completely disappear for five or six days. Applied to the skin, the extract causes local numbness. Water and acetic acid do not appear to dissolve the active principle of the Calabar bean, but rectified spirit extracts it. Dr. Fra.ser uses a tincture made by treating an ounce of the finely powdered kernel with two ounces of spirit in a procolator. This quantity of spirit does not, liowever, exhaust the drug completely. Five minims of this tincture answer to about three grains of the kernel. The alcoholic extract of the bean, and a preparation in which this is suspended in water, are employed in ophthalmic medicine. Dr. Fraser has used the physostigma internally in cases of erysipelas, delirium tremens, febricula, acute bronchitis, and neuralgia. It is also useful as a local aj)plication to destroy pediculi. Dr. Eobertson ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' March, 1863, pp. 815, experimented on himself, with a view to ascertain the exact eftects of 1 his agent on the eyes. He recommends the use of syrup to suspend ihe spirituous extract, as the watery solution quickly spoils, and glyce- rine is apt to irritate the eyes. He employs a quantity of the extract which is equal to about half a grain of the bean, to produce contraction of the pupil. To neutralize the effects of a drop of a solution of atro- pine of the strength of gr. | to 5j, he uses two drops of a stronger solution of the extract, corresponding to eight grains of the bean ; even then the condition of the iris is only partially restored, though vision returns to its normal state. He differs from Dr. Fraser in ascribing the contraction of the pupilORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 429 to an ineroased action of the sphincter pupillfp, and the myopia to conti'action of the ciliai'is muscle. 3klr. E. Hart (' Lancet,' vol. ii, 1863, p. ,36) notices the employmenl, for ophthalmoscopic purposes, of paper saturated with the extract, the strength being so adjusted as exactly to neutralize the atropine paper of Mr. Streatfield. Cases of ophthalmic disease in which it has been employed are recorded by several observers. Mr. Nunneley (' Lancet,' vol. ii, p. 476) has administered it to dogs and cats ; he remarks that, though it lias no more taste than an ordinary haricot bean, animals, and especially cats, manifest a great repugnance to eating food with which it has been mixed. ji Ci/iisus Lahurnum.—Mr. Popham (' Dub. Quar. Journ.,' Ixix, p. 248) records the symptoms produced in several children by eating the seeds of this plant. They were of an acro-narcotic character, but wei-c not severe, except in the case of one boy aged six years. In him the fii'st eftects produced were giddiness and pain in the head, with sensa- tions of heat and constriction in the thi-oat. After a time severe pain in the stomach came on, with collapse, and vomiting of a dark grumous matter; convulsive twitchings of the muscles of the face were also ob- served, and the pupils were dilated and sluggish. An emetic was administered; sinapisms were applied to the epigasti-ium and to the spine, and ammonia was given; narcotism, however, came on, attended with slowness of the respiration and stertor. "When roused, he was testy and impatient, and soon relapsed into stupor. Under the external and internal administration of stimulants he ultimately recovered. Terebinthacece. An instance is related ('Gaz. Hebd.' 1863, p. 5. ' Journ. de Med. de Toulouse') of the] violent action of the Rhus toxicodendron. A gardener, who had merely been destroying some of the young shoots of the tree, was attacked with headache, erysipelatous swelling of the face and of the eyelids, and finally with an eruption of phlyctente over the whole body. Aumtitiacece. M.V. C. Symes ('Pharm. Journ.,' vol. v, p. 162) says that lemon- juice, which has been exposed in the winter to a temperature of 150'^, can be preserved for months without spoiling; lemon-juice so prepared during the summer months will not keep. It is necessary that the bottles be hermetically closed while the fluid is still hot; but common corks, covered with beeswax, suffice for this purpose. Papaveraoece. Dr. Matthiessen and Mr. Foster ('Phil. Trans.,' 1863, p. 345) give an account of their investigations on narcotine and its derivatives. "Wertheim, founding his opinion on the composition of the volatile bases, obtained by distilling narcotine with potash, had maintained that there are three varieties of this substance, which he named methyl- narcotine, ethyl-narcotine, and propyl-narcotine. Matthiessen and'130 nEPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND SIATEIUA. MEDICA. Poster find no evidence of the existence of more than one form, wliicli corresponds to the first of those described by Wertheim. Its composi- tion is ll.jjj N0,4. It contains the elements of meconin, C,,,, H,,, 0^, and of cotarninc, II,.j NOg. Prof. Albers, of Bonn (Virchow's ' Archiv,' xxvi, p. 225) has made a series of experiments upon the physiological action of the different prin- ciples contained in opium. In these observations doses of about a grain were introduced beneath the skin of the back or thigh in frogs. His conclusions are as follows: 1. Morphia, porphyroxin, codeia, narceine, and thebaina, produce violent and even tetanic spasms, and an exaltation of the sensibility. The convulsions caused by thebaina are especially violent and pro- longed. The two frogs experimented on lay for twenty-four hours in a state of spasm.- Neither morphia nor codeia has been observed to produce similar effects. Death also occurs later under the influence of thebaina than when the other substances are employed. This appears to depend upon the fact that this agent does not exalt the sensibility so much, so that exhaustion does not come on so soon. Porphyroxin and papaverine produce especially hyperffisthesia, this being a more prominent effect of their action than spasm. 2. Meconin, narcotine, and meconic acid, on the other hand, produce less spasm and hyperaesthesia, but their administration is rapidly fol- lowed by insensibility. The effects of narcotine especially are the very opposite of those of thebaina. It quickly prodvices loss of sensibility, with paralysis and relaxation of the muscles. The only spasm caused by it is a strong, very limited tonic convulsion, appearing among the later symptoms. Meconic acid has a similar action ; it causes transient spasm, affecting principally the thigh in which the poison was placed ; it also produces, at first, a very slight hypertesthesia. These phenomena quickly subside, and ai'e followed by insensibility and paralysis. It is also much more slowly absorbed, and its effects are more quickly re- covered from than any of the other constituents of opium. Twice as much of it is required to destroy life as of morphia. The convulsions caused by morphia and thebaina are ascribed by Albers partly to the direct action of the poison on the muscles while cir- culating in the blood, partly to reflex action due to the hyperfesthesia. That they are in part produced in the fi^rst of these ways is shown by the fact that they do not altogether cease in limbs when the connections of their nerves with the spinal cord have been completely cut through. Albers thinks that there is yet another way in which convulsions are pro- duced by these agents, namely, by the direct action of the poison upon the spinal and cerebral centres, exciting them to produce spasm of the muscles. He argues to this conclusion from the facts that all the limbs are often convulsed at the same instant, and that the pupils are contracted. 3. Opium, as well as the acid and bases derived from it, produce more rapid exhaustion of the susceptibility of the nerves to the influence of galvanism than any other poisons, coniine alone excepted. As soon as the spasmodic movements of the muscles cease, it is found to be im- possible to excite them to contraction by any electrical irritation. ThisORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 481 is the reason, according to Albers, why, when coma and paralysis have once occurred in cases of poisoning by opium, recovery is so rare. 4. Opium acts much more quickly than morphia, and it also affects much more the cerebral functions. Albers also coincides with Oesterlen in thinking that morphia produces nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, convul- sions, and tonic spasms, far more frequently than opium. He has him- self treated patients of an irritable nature, in whom the smallest dose of morphia has produced sickness. He says that it is much less certain than opium as a soporific agent. It is to the presence of narcotine and meconin in opium that these differences between the action of opium and that of morphia are principally due. The use of narcotine is espe- cially indicated in cases of sleeplessness. According to Albers, the English "black drop " contains a preponderating quantity of this prin- ciple. He is inclined to attribute the fact observed by^Magendie, that the residue of opium left after the extraction of the morphia possesses but very slight narcotic properties to some accidental peculiarity in the opium used. It does not appear that Magendie experimented with more than one kind of opium. In these experiments with the different opium principles, Albers observed nothing which confirmed the state- ment of Orfila, that opium and morphia exert their influence especially on the hinder limbs, as compared with codeia. The imcertainty of the action of the different preparations and kinds of opium is generally attributed to peculiarities in the disease for which it is given, or in the patient to whom it is prescribed. Albers is inclined to ascribe it to the varying chemical constitution of the opium employed. Not only is this drug very liable to adulteration, but it is also frequently sold after its morphia has been extracted. He advises that experiments should be made on frogs with each specimen of opium before it is given to patients. Every effect which is produced by the bases or the acid contained in this drug will, he says, display itself in this way, and the proportion of the different principles may be estimated by the character of the actions produced. He thinks that it is indisputably proved that the operation of this drug on warm-blooded animals and on man is exactly the same as on frogs. Mr. "Winterbotham ('Lancet,' 1863, vol. i, p. 8) records the recovery of a child, aged two years and three months, from very severe symptoms caused by swixUowing a grain of acetate of morphia. Free vomiting was induced by a zinc emetic, and coffee was given. Dr. M. Mackensie ('Med. Tim. and G-az.,' vol. i, 1863, p, 278) relates a case in which a liniment containing two ounces of tincture of opium was injected into the rectum. A semi-comatose condition was produced, with extreme contraction of the pupils ; but recovery took place without any artificial means being adopted to keep the brain in a state of activity. A fatal case of poisoning by three grains of morphia injected into the rectum is communicated by Dr. Anstie to the 'Med. Tini. and G-az.' (1863, vol.i, p. 134). Ten hours after the administration of the drug the patient was .found insensible, with the usual symptoms. Twenty grains of Morson's caffeine were given by mouth, with temporary advantage; the pulse, previously scarcely perceptible, rose to a fair strength, beating 100 in the minute; the limbs became warmer, and consciousness re-HEl'OllT OS TOXICOLOGY AND MATEJU.V MliDlCA. 432 turned. Tliia good effect lasted only an liouv aud a liali" and dealli occurred sixteen and a half hours after the injection of the poison. Dr. Duprc (' Guy's IIosp. Eep.,' 1863, p. 323) recommends the fol- lowing method of applying the iodic-acid test for morphia, by which ha delicacy is greatly increased. After allowing the mixture containing the iodic acid and starch and the fluid supposed to contain morphia to stand for ten minutes, a very dilute solution of ammonia is carefully poured upon its surface by means of a pipette. Two coloured ring's appear after a time at the place where the two fluids are in contact. The lower one is blue, the upper one brown. These riugs may be clearly seen in liquids containing suo^u^h. part of morphia. The brown ring alone ■ shows itself in still more dilute solutions. Aniline is men'^ tioned by Dr. Dupre as among the substances which give a somewhat similar reaction. OBGAiriC CHEMIOAX PnOBUCTS. Carbolic acid.—Dr. Grace Calvert ('Lancet,' 1863, vol. ii, p.362) de- scribes the properties and medicinal uses of carbolic acid. A solution of this substance in glycerine is stated to be a valuable topical remedy- in diphtheria; it acts as an escharotic, but its efiects do not spread to the adjacent parts. A solution of one part of the acid in forty parts of water is applied to foul and oftensive ulcers with good effect, as it removes all disagreeable smell. A stronger solution may be made by mixing two drachms of the acid with one drachm of liquor potassa? and half a pint of water. A case of wound of the fingers is recorded in this paper, in which carbolic acid appears to have been of service in check- ing sloughing. Dr. Calvert suggests its use in phthisis, the acid being both swallowed in solution, and also inhaled into the lungs, the breath being drawn through an apparatus containing cotton-wool saturated with it. According to Gratiolet and Lemaire, it has a powerful in- fluence in arresting those fermentations which depend on the develop- ment of cryptogamic life, while it does not interfere with those which are of a purely chemical kind, such as the conversion of amygdaline into hydruret of benzoile. Creasotc.—According to the ' Presse Medicale Beige,' by the addition of ten parts of collodion to fifteen parts of creasote, a gelatinous mass is formed, which is easier of application to a carioiis tooth than the creasote alone, and has the further advantage of protecting the dental nerve from the air. AniUnc.—Dr. Letheby (' Pharm. Journ.,' vol. v, p. 130) gives an account of the physiological properties of nitro-benzole and aniline. He says that in every manufactory where these substances are prepared on a large scale their peculiar narcotic effects are often observed. The vapours mixed with the air are breathed by the workmen, and cause dis- tressing headache aud a heavy, sleepy sensation; but these eflects are usually quickly removed by iresh air aud stimulants. Two fatal cases of poisoning by nitro-benzole are, however, recorded. The one is that of a boy, aged seventeen years, who received a little of the liquid into his mouth while sucking at a siphon; tlie other occurred in a man, forty-OEGANIC CHEMICAL PRODUCTS. 433 three years old, who spilt a quantity of it on his clothes, and went about for several hom-s, surrounded, of course, by an atmosphere saturated with the poison. In each case the only effect observed for some time was a sensation of drowsiness; gradually, however, the face became flushed, the expression stupid, and the gait unsteady. The mind re- mained perfectly clear, otherwise the symptoms resembled those of alco- holic intoxication. About four hours after the action of the nitro- beuzole commenced, the drowsiness suddenly terminated in coma, as in a fit of apoplexy, and this occurred, in each case, about five hours before death. Nitro-benzole was detected by chemical examination in the brain and stomach. These effects were so remarkable, that Dr. Letheby proceeded to make some experiments upon animals. He gave to dogs and cats from thirty to sixty di'ops of nitro-benzole, from which every trace of aniline had been removed by careful washing with dilute sulphuric acid and water. The effects produced were of two kinds. In one class of cases they resembled those observed in the human subject. The animal was seized with giddiness, and with weakness, at first of the hinder extremi- ties, but afterwards of the fore legs and of the head and neck. The muscles were occasionally fixed in spasm, and there were periods of violent struggling, alternating with exhaustion and quiescence. The pupils were dilated, the action of the heart was tumultuous and irregu- lar, and the breathing was somewhat difficult. Suddenly, and often at the close of a fit, the animal became comatose. The conjunctiva was then insensible, and the breathing slow and somewhat stertorous, and death occurred in a period which varied from twenty-five minutes to twelve hours after the poison was administered. In another most extraordinary series of cases no effect beyond the discomfort from the taste of the substance was observed during some hours, or even days. The animal would take its food well, and went about as usual. Suddenly, at the expiration of an interval of nineteen to seventy-two hours, it began to look distressed ; it had an attack of vomiting, and this was followed by an epileptic fit. After the convul- sions had ceased, it was usually found that the hinder extremities were weak, or even paralysed. The further progress of the symptoms resembled that already described, except that it was much slower, con- sciousness being often retained for days after paralysis had occurred. They terminated in some cases in death, apparently fi-om exhaustion, in other cases in recovery, with a gradual restoration of the muscular power. The time that elapsed before death, in three of these experi- ments, was from four to nine days. Nitro-benzole appears to be converted into aniline in the interior of the body by a process of reduction. In the more rapid cases, where death took place within twenty-four hours, the odour of nitro-benzole was clearly perceptible in the stomach, brain, and lungs ; but there Avas also unmistakable evidence of the existence of aniline in the organs of the body. In the slower cases the smell of the poison had disappeared ; generally aniline was detected in the brain and in the urine, and some- times in the stomach and liver; occasionally, however, no poison whs found. It is possible that this conversion of nitro-benzole into aniline 28434 REPORT O.N TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. may take ])lace post mortem, for dead and decomposing animal matter is capable of effecting this chemical change. Its occurrence during life would be remarkable, because aniline itself undergoes oxidation upon the surface of the body, and mauve or Magenta-purple is produced. This has been observed in a case of poisoning by aniline, and also during the medi- cinal use of the sulphate of this substance in cases of chorea at the London Hospital. As much as 406 grains of this salt (which is not, like free aniline, poisonous) were given, in one case, in a few days. After a few doses the face became of a leaden-blue colour; the lips and gums looked as if the patient had been eating black currants, and the nails also ac- quired a purple hue. This tint was, however, so transitory, that it was observed to fade a little in the interval between each dose of the sulphate of aniline. Dr. Letheby's colour-test for aniline has been already given in the * Tear-book' for 1862. It is, however, not mentioned there that the aniline is obtained from the animal tissues which contain it by distilla- tion. Strychnia gives nearly the same colour reactions ; but it is not volatile, and therefore will not distil over like aniline. It is also necessary to use strong sulphuric acid to produce the colour with strychnia, while aniline gives the best tints when the dilute acid is em- ployed. There is, therefore, no difficulty in distinguishing between the two alkaloids. Aniline colours.—Charvet ('Ann. d'Hyg.,' 1863, Oct., p. 381) gives an account of an epidemic which prevailed in a manufactory of fuchsine, or aniline red, at Pierre Benite (Ehone). Among the earliest symptoms was an eruption, which occupied chiefly the hands and feet, and was remarkable for the multiplicity of its forms. Herpes, pem- phigus, prurigo, and ecthyma, are described as associated together at the same spot. It disappeared very quickly as soon as the patient was removed. Slight thirst, and constipation or diarrhoea, were also observed in these cases, but the most striking phenomena were those which affected the nervous system. The following were especially noticed:— Weakness of the limbs, amounting, in many instances, to incomplete paralysis, and affecting the hands and feet before the arms or the legs ; anesthesia or hyperassthesia, and various perversions of sense ; formica- tion ; sensations of constriction round the limbs, or burning heat in them, or even acute pains. There were great varieties in these symj)- toms in different cases. The affection rarely lasted more than a month, and terminated in every case in recovery. Its cause was not surely ascertained, but it is ascribed to the use of arsenic acid in producmg the colour from the aniline. Glycerine.—M. Palm ('BuU. de Th^r.,' Ixv, 1863, p. 2;o) gives the following process for the detection of the presence of cane-sugar in glycerine. Two drops of sulphuric acid are added to the liquid, aud it is then evaporated in a water bath. If it becomes black, it may be assumed that cane-sugar is present. Grape-sugar may be discovered by boiling the suspected glycerine with a third part of potass ley, when a brown colour appears if this impurity be contained m it. Chloroformic anodyne.—Br. Harley ('Lancet,' ii, p. 7) relates a case ot poisoning by six drachms of this substance, occurring m a girl »t. 12.435 OEGANIC CHEMICAL PEODUCTS. Vomiting came on almost directly, but before ten minutes bad elajDsed the cbild was in a state of stupor, witb contracted pupils. Tbe stomacb- pump was bad recoiu'se to, but tbe severity of tbe symptoms increased. Tbe pulse became imperceptible, tbe respirations were only six in tbe minute, and tbe surface of tbe body began to feel cold. Artificial res- piration was tben employed, and a pint of bot coifee, witb tbree dracbms of Sp. iEtb. Nitr., were injected into tbe stomacb. Tbis caused sligbt im- provement. A constant stream of cold water was tben directed on to tbe head, witb almost magical effect. Tbe pulse became quicker and stronger, tbe respirations became natural, and tbe girl began to rub ber face witb bar band. Cessation of tbe affusion was followed by a return of tbe comatose condition. Even ten bours after tbe poison was taken tbere was a relapse, and tbe doucbe was again employed. Tbe efiects did not completely pass off for fifty-four boiu's. " Cbloroformic anodyne" appears to contain a great deal of opium, some cbloroform, and a small quantity of prussic acid. Sjpiritus JEtlieris Nitrici.—Tbe 'Lancet' (1863,vol.ii, p. 573) gives a report of tbe state of tbis remedy as sold in London, especially witb reference to tbe presence in it of metbylated spirit. Tbe best tests for tbis impurity appear to be tbe senses of taste and smell. A few di'ops of tbe diluted and undiluted spirit should be placed on tbe tongue and well tasted, when tbe tar-bke, unpleasant, and even nauseous fiavour of tbe metbylated spirit will be detected, should it be present. Tbe smell is best recognised by pouring a little of tbe suspected spirit upon a wine-glassful of bot water. " Ure's test," which consists in tbe employ- ment of caustic potash, was found to be fallacious, owing to tbe presence of aldehyde, and Mr. Eeynolds's test of chloride of mercury and caustic potass is also liable to mislead. A large proportion of the thirty-two samples examined bad tbe smell and taste of methylated spirit, and two only of them reached the pbarmacopoeial standard of strength. Under the patent of M. Eschwege, it is now possible to purify wood-spirit itseH", so that it is not distinguishable from ordinary alcohol by either smell or taste. The ' Pharm. Journ.' (Dec, 1863, p. 239) consoles itself witb the remark that the impure specimens of Sp. ^th. Nitr. came from the shops of chemists in tbe low neighbourhoods at tbe east end of London. It is also observed that tbe specific gravity of this remedy is not a sufficient test as to tbe quantity of water contained in it, for the nitrous ether has itself a specific gravity of '947, and an increase in tbe proportion of that compound would, therefore, raise tbe density of the liquid. Sp. Ammonice Aromaticus. — The Analytical Sanitary Commission has investigated the quality of the commercial specimens of tbis sub- stance also ('Lancet,' ii, 1863, p. 660). The strength of it was found to be very variable, an ounce of the weakest preparation examined not containing more ammonia than a drachm of the strongest. The quantity of spirit was also very difterent in different specimens. Tbe specific gravity varied between -834 and -933. Many of the samples contained metbylated spirit. One specimen only was free from tbe presence of caustic ammonia. All the others contained it, witb more or less of tbe carbonate; in many tliere were only traces of the carbonate to be436 hepout on toxicology and materia uedica. detected. The nature of the flavouring ingredients also varied ; some contained rosemary, otliers nutmeg and cinnamon ; in no instance was the odour of cloves perceived. Cloves are, however, said to cause the liquid to assume a dark colour when it is kept for any length of time. ANIMAL poisons AND EEMEDIES. Dr. Pavy (' Lancet,' 1863, vol. i, p. 461) found that only one specimen of pepsine, among many procured by him from London druggists, pos- sessed any perceptible digestive property. Tlie substance sold as pepsine usually contains much starch. In the experiments on |this sub- stance, sixty grains of the pepsine were added to forty minims of strong hydrochloric acid and two ounces of water. Progs' legs were then placed in this fluid, and left at a uniform temperatiu-e of 110° Fahr. for four hours. The pepsine of Messrs. Bullock and Eeynoldsjalone produced energetic eff'ects, notwithstanding that only twenty grains of it were employed. This substance is, in fact, very easily rendered inert by slight decomposition, or by exposure to a temperature of !i4o° Fahr. The best method of preparing an artificial digestive fluid (useful for enemata in dysphagia and in other cases) is to strip oflE" the fresh mucous mem- brane of the stomach of the pig, or of other animals, and, after drying it, to cut it into strips, and then to infuse it in water of the proper temperature when it is required to be used. About five to twenty grains should be employed in this way, and some acid should be added. Mr. Tichborne ('Dublin Medical Press,' p. 54, 1863) suggests the following process for the detection of cantharidine in liquids. The suspected fluid is to be treated with chloroform, which dissolves out the cantharidine if it be present; the chloroform is then to be allowed to evaporate from a watch-glass, and the extractive left is to be mopped up with a little lint, moistened with' olive oil. This is then to be applied to the skin, and covered with goldbeater's skin. A large vesicle on the arm was obtained in this way by the application of the extractive procured from half a pint of wine, to which some tincture, containing three grains of cantharidea, had been added. Dr. Newbigging ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' October, 1863, p. 312) relates the symptoms of poisoning by the flesh of the American par- tridge, which were observed in two ladies, the cases occurring together in the year 1857. A short time after the dinner at which the partridge was eaten sensations of chilliness were complained of in each case. These were followed in one patient by vomiting, convulsions, and dim- ness of sight, amounting to almost complete blindness. The sight of the other lady was less afl"ected. She suff'ered chiefly from muscular weakness and coldness of the surface, with difliculty of swallowing. Sickness was not among her symptoms, occurring only after an emetic had been given. The mind was quite clear in each case. These eflects gradually passed off"; four hours after the commencement of the symptoms, all the more urgent ones had subsided; the pulse rose, the skin became warm, and vision was restored. At one time it w^as believed that one of the cases, at least, would terminate fatally. For some days_ unpleasant effects remained ; " a prickly feeling over the body, and involuntary startings and movements of the Augers," with great feebleness, wereLEECHES. 437 complained of. After the use of emetics, the treatment consisted of stimulants; sinapisms were also applied. Dr. Newbigging thinks that the danger arises from the crop remaining in contact with the flesh of the bird, and therefore that this organ ought to be at once removed by those who are concerned in the exportation or sale of this article of food. TENOMOUS EEPTILE3. Dr. Emanuel (' Med. Tim. and Graz.,' 1863, i, p. 449) gives an account of a case of snake-bite, which occurred in India. A quarter of an hour afterwards, a well-defined areola, of a dark-red colour, surrounded the spot bitten, which was just below the right nipple. The patient was very restless and anxious, and was bathed in clammy perspiration. The wound was scarified, and nitric acid was applied to it. Stimulants were given internally, but were at once vomited. A few minutes later, jjtosis of both upper eyelids occurred, and paralyfiis of deglutition soon followed. The skin became still colder and more clammy, and after three quarters of an hour the respiration began to be difficult, infre- quent, and shallow. The patient then became unconscioiis. The pulse only began to fail about ten minutes before death, which took place apparently about an hour and a half after the bite occurred. In 1855 M. Soubeiran published the case of a gentleman, who, having been bitten by a viper in the year 1849, asserted that he still expe- rienced attacks of rather severe pain in the arm bitten, with sensations of lassitude and malaise ; these symptoms recurring every year in the month of April, and lasting a mouth. Dr. Demeiu-at relates (' Gaz. Hebd.,' vol. x, p. 736) the following instance of a similar occurrence. A woman was bitten by a viper in the right forearm on the 28th May, 1824. She sulFered at the time from nausea and vomiting, headache, and chilliness. The arm also became swollen, and a dark-red patch, covered by a large bleb, formed at the spot which was bitten. This aflection extended across the fore- arm, and a large quantity of serosity exuded daily from the furrows between the bullae. Beneath the raised epidermis was a thick false membrane. After eighteen months this membrane became black and dry, and the woman tore it off" in one piece. The skin beneath was red, but soon recovered its healthy appearance. This was in November, 1826. The next year, on May 28th, the eruption returned, and con- tinued till November. These phenomena repeat themselves each year, commencing about the same day. The lassitude, neausea, &c., appear, and last about a week, and then the eruption becomes developed ; this, however, now only remains for about six weeks. In the intervals, all that is visible is a slight white cicatrix, which indicates the seat of the original bite. The earlier part of tliis extraordinary case is given on the authority of the patient alone, and Demeurat does not even say that he has seen the eruption during the present year. The woman is not subject to any other dartrous cutaneous affection. I-EECHES. Dr. J. Beer ('Deutsche Klinik,' 1863, No. 17, p. 170) proposes the438 REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. following raetliod by which the amount of blood extracted by leeches may bo very greatly increased, and which he calls bdellatomy. It consists in making an incision into the caudal extremity of the animal, at the moment when it has sucked itself full. The blood gushes out at once like a fountain, but the animal continues to suck. Dr. Beer tried this plan first on a leech applied to his own finger. After an hour it was purposely taken off", though it was still drawing blood. The length of time_ during which a leech will continue to suck, which has been incised in this way, does not appear to have been ascertained. It may always be detached from the skin, Avhen desired, by the application of a little common salt. It is not injured by the operation, it remains quite fresh and active, and regains almost its original size ; a slight con- traction only remains at the point where the incision was made. Groltdamme]', of Berlin, has manufactured instruments of two kinds for the special purpose of bdellatomy; a lancet appears, however, to be all that is required for the performance of this operation. The cut should be made at the side of tlie under surface of the leech. "When it is made on the dorsum, the leech ceases to suck. It is necessary to avoid the ring next to the foot, because the anus is at this point, but on the dorsal surface. The twenty-fourth and twenty-ninth rings, counting from the anterior sucker, must also not be injured, as they contain the openings of the sexual passages in the median line of the abdominal surface. One of the advantages of bdellatomy is that the amount of blood extracted by leeches may be pretty accurately ascertained, by allowing the incised extremity of the animal to hang over into a gra- duated vessel, and by collecting the blood which escapes when the cut is made. No ill eff"ects have been observed to follow the adoption of this plan. The danger of secondary ha3morrhage is not increased. The wound made by the leech heals in the ordinary manner. AYhen rapid extraction of blood is required, Beer recommends that several leeches be applied at the same time, and that they be all incised. Leeches which have been used in cases of contagious disease should, of course, not be applied afterwards to persons whose malady is not of that cha- racter, lest the disease be propagated ; but Eawitz has shown tliat the mortality in leeches, after their use, is much greater in typhus than in ordinary diseases, amounting to 70 per cent, in the former class of cases, and only to 3 7—40 per cent, in the latter. M. Eoucher (' Graz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 359) remarks that, in disgorging leeches of their blood, too much force is often used. This causes lacerations of the animal's body, leading to gangrene of the anterior extremity, an affection which does not kill the leech, but which renders it useless, from the loss of the incisive apparatus. Considerable manual dexterity is, therefore, required in doing this. Kleist (' Schmidt's Jahrbiicher,' 1863, No. 8) recommends putting the leech, as soon as it falls off", into a small flat saucer, containing dilute vinegar. The appli- cation of solutions of common salt to leeches is not judicious. It produces a prejudicial effect on them, so that they become affected by disease (' Knotenkrankheit'). The best plan that can be adopted is to dip tlie head of the leech only in dilute vinegar, and gently to remove the blood, b^ compressing the animal with one liand, about 3"' froniLEECHES. 489 the tail. A quantity of blood collects at once in the posterior ex- tremity of the animal. The blood in the fore part of the leech is then pressed out by the hand which is free, and that which had accumulated behind the part pressed on is afterwards gently pushed forwards and removed. The animal should be immediately placed in ])ure water. It has been proposed to add an alkali, with the object of diminishing the injurious effects of the vinegar, a fresh quantity of which must be used for the cleansing of each leech. Soft water appears to suit leeches better than hard. The tendency to decomposition from the organic matter contained in it may be obviated (as at Preistadt) by placing in it pieces of carbon. It is of great importance to avoid ex- posing leeches to considerable variations of temperature, when the water in which they are kept is changed. According to Boucher, the best thing to do with leeches, after they have been used, would be to ])lace them in a non-metallic vessel, and to return them to the marsh. As this is out of the question, a vivarium is used. The animal should be kept in this for a week or ten days, as, at the end of that period, it most readily bites for a second time. The best apparatus for preserving leeches appears to consist of an earthen vessel covered with a lid made of zinc. This is itself placed in a pail of water, which is imbedded in the ground. Besides the water in the vessel in which the leeches are placed, a quantity of clayey earth is arranged round the bottom of it, and kept in its position by a shelving piece of wood, perforated by aper- tures, so that the leeches can readily pass from one element to the other. The water must be frequently changed. From this apparatus leeches may be applied four times in succession. The mortality among leeches after their employment is, according to Eoucher, as follows:—" Virgin leeches," that is to say, those which have never before been used, all survive under proper care. Of those applied for the second time, 9 per cent, die; of those used for the third time, 18 per cent.; of those used for the fourth time, 37 per cent. After this the mortality reaches 7 a per cent.; aud he therefore recommends that leeches be returned to the marsh when they have been used four times. In their natural habitat they breed, and are,perhaps,brought back after a time as "virgin leeches." The quantity of blood absorbed by " virgin leeches," of the mean weight of 23 grains, was, on an average, 74—77 grains. That absorbed by leeches used for the second time was 50 grains ; 43 grains of blood were extracted by leeches the third time they were applied to the skin, and 30 grains the fourth time. These numbers, however, require modi- fication, as they do not include the amount of blood which escapes from the wound after the leech has fallen off. This quantity is, of course, the same, whatever kind of leech be used. Eoucher gives the numbers 100, 86, 82, 75, as representing the.relative value of leeches used for the first, second, third, and fourth times. In ' Schmidt's .Tahrblicher' (1863, No. 8) is given a report of the in- creasing success of the methods adopted in the Prussian military hos- pitals for the restoration of leeches. The proportion of these animals which were used a second time was, in i860, 76 per cent.; in i86r it was 837 per cent. The saving in expense amounted to about £i8o in the first year, and £230 in the second year. The greatest success440 UEPOllT ON TOXICOLOGY A»D MATERIA MEDICA. was attained at the liospital at Freistadt, iu which thirty-two leeches were employed 13.5 times. NEW EEMEDIES. Prof. Bentlcy continues his descriptions of new remedies in the pages of the ' Pharmaceutical Journal.' The first mentioned is tlie Sarraccnia purpurea, tlio drug which has been so highly vaunted for the cure of variola. The root and leaves are the parts employed in medicine. It is at present doubtful whether one of them is to be preferred to the other. The dose of the powdered leaves or root appears to be 5j—is.?. An infusion, decoction, or tincture of it may be employed. Mr. Marson (' Lancet,' 1863, ii, p. 6) says that he has used this remedy in fifteen cases of severe smallpox, all of which terminated fataUy. The drug did not appear to have any effect whatever. Dicentra {Gort/dalis) formosa.—The tuber of this plant is the part which is used medicinally. It contains corydalina, fumaric acid, and other ingredients. It is said to possess anti-syphilitic, resolvent, tonic, diuretic, alterative, antiscorbutic, and other properties. The resinous extract (corydalin), of which the dose is gr. ss—iij, the tincture and the decoction are the preparations ordinarily employed. Slanihoxylon fmxineum is a stimulant and alterative tonic, resembling mezereum in its properties, and useful especially in chronic rheumatism. The bark is the part used in medicine ; its dose, in powder, is gr. x— XXX, three or four times a day. Besides the oleo-resinous extract (xanthoxylin), formulse are given for an infusion, a decoction, and a tincture. Another bark, the exact source of which is unknown, is frequently mixed with it, or substituted for it. Pfelea trifoliata, the root-bark of which is employed medicinally, is said to be a stimulant tonic, and is tised in remittent and intermittent fevers. Oeranium maculatum.—Of this plant the rhizome is the part used. It has no odour, but a very astringent taste, and it contains a con- siderable quantity of tannic and gallic acids, and appears to be a useful astringent. It is especially serviceable in the maladies of infants, and of persons of delicate stomach, from its taste not being unpleasant. It is also useful as a gargle in aftections of the throat. A substance called geraninis obtained from it, which also possesses astringent, styptic, and antiseptic properties. The dose of the rhizome is gr. xx—xl. A decoc- tion, an infusion, and a tincture are also employed. Cerasus Virginiana.—This plant, which is known also by the names of Prunus serotina and Cerasus serotina, appears to be extensively used in America as a tonic and sedative. The inner bark is the part employed, that of the root being considered the most active. It has a bitter, somewhat aromatic, and rather agreeable taste. When dried, it has scarcely any odour, though when fresh its smell recalls that of bitter almonds. A very poisonous volatile oil, containing prussic acid, has been obtained from it by distillation; and this is produced from amyg- dalin, as in the bitter almond. The bark also appears to contain a bitter principle, which was supposed at one time to be phlorydzin. The tincture, the syrup, and the cold infusion, are the preparations given by Prof. Bentley. The resinous extract, prunin, has the tonic pro-441 GENERAL THERAPEUTICS. perties of the bark, but is less sedative in its action. Its dose is gr. ij, or, as a sedative, gr. iv—'viij. Tlie following arc among" the new remedies a description of which is given in the 'Lancet' (1863, vol. i, pp. 127, 190, 337 ; vol. ii, p. 48). JEupatorium furpureim.—Eiipurpurin, an oleo resin obtained from the alcoholic tincture of the root of this plant, is said to be superior to all other remedies as a diuretic ; dose, gr. iij. Baptisia tinctoria, the wild indigo.—The root-bark, and the leaves, are the parts used. In full doses it is emetic and purgative, in smaller quantities it has a stimulant action. It is used internally in malignant fevers, and also topically as an application to sloughing iilcers, &c. Baptisin, the dose of which is gr. j—V. Phytolacca decandra.—The root and leaves of this plant arc officinal. In large doses it is purgative, emetic, and narcotic ; but it is used in small doses, when it is found to be a powerful alterative. It is said to relieve the pain in some cases of rheumatism more readily than even opium. The dose of the concentrated preparation (phytolaccin) is gr. \—\. Eumacin.—The exact species from which this is obtained is not stated. It has an antiscorbutic, autiscrofulous, and alterative action; dose, gr. v. The remaining four remedies are said to have a special action on the uterus. They are the Aletris farinosa, the Asclepias tuberosa, the Benecio gracilis, and the Trillium pendulmi. GEKEEAL TnEEAPEUTICS, M. Luton ('Presse Medicale Beige,' 1863, No. 45, p. 360), injects remedies into diseased parts which are deeply situated. He calls this proceeding the method of "parenchymatous substitution," the object being to replace one morbid action by another of an artificial kind. An exploratory trocar is used for this purpose, a glass syringe, containing the liquid to be injected, being fitted to it. In cases of sciatica and tic douloureux he employed a saturated solution of common salt in this way; alcohol, tincture of cantharides, or tincture of iodine, may also be injected, so as to excite slight inflammatory action. In chronic glandular enlargements this method is also useful. In one case of goitre, in which tincture of iodine was injected into the tumour, the patient completely recovered ; two other cases of the same kind were imder observation. No ill eflects have been produced by this proceed- ing. Besides the substances mentioned, solutions of nitrate of silver, of sulphate of copper, or of bichloride of mercury, may also be employed. l)r. Ilandfield Jones remarks, with reference to difi:*erent anodynes, that aeonitine is most adapted to relieve superficial pain, itching, and hyperajsthesia of the skin; opium is especially valuable when the pain is of a wearying, aching kind, more connected with debility, and re- quiring a stimulating and tonic rather than a sedative treatment; and veratria to intermediate states, " where a peculiar excitation of the nerve- extremities seems to alter the morbid action of the afi'ected nerve." Agonite requires care, especially in weakly subjects, or in those who have a tendency to syncope. It should never be applied to excoriated or mucous surfaces, except when much diluted. There is a tolerance of it, not only in tetanus, but in cases of acute pain or of severe itching,4t4-a hepout on toxicology and mateuia medica. and in similar conditions. Dr. Jones employs a lotion containing one part of the tincture of aconite P. L., mixed with two of water (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 186,3, vol. i, p. 241). After showing how unsatisfactory are the various theoretical views as to the action of expectorants, Dr. Gairdner (' Glasgow Med. Jour.,' xi, p. 129) attributes this defect to errors in the ordinary conception of the method!? by which mucus is expelled from the bronchi. He thinks that, in health, tliis is effected by the muscular walls of the bronchial tubes contracting in a peristaltic way, so that they may be looked on as the " scavenger muscles of the respiratory tract." He divides expecto- rant remedies generally into two classes:—(i) Aromatic and volatile substances, such as camphor, ammonia, assafcetida, garlic, myrrh, copaiba, &c. Their action is probably local, and consequent on their direct contact with the pulmonary mucous membrane, either through the ex- cretions or through the expired air. (2) Agents which are expectorant in small doses, uauseant and emetic when given in larger quantities. Such are antimony, ipecacuanha, squill, senega, lobelia, tobacco, &c.; and he believes that these remedies are peculiarly and specifically the exciters of bronchial peristalsis. GENERAL PHAEMACEUTICS. M. Turun ('Bull, de Ther.,' vol. Ixiv, p. 72, 1863) recommends the use of glycerine as a solvent for various remedies. Its miscibility with water gives it a great advantage, since it is easily cleansed away from sores, and it does not stain linen or apparatus, like other fatty bodies. He gives formulffi for preparations, which are called glyceroles, contain- ing tincture of opium and other tinctures, extracts, volatile oils, salts of the organic alkaloids, and metallic salts, such as alum and borax. Still more useful are the solid preparations. The basis of these is the glycerolate of starch. This is made by suspending five parts of starch in ten parts of water, adding eighty-five parts of glycerine, and warming till the mixture assumes a gelatinous condition. The addition of water is with the object of facilitating the hydration of the starch, and pre- venting the compound having a disagreeable smell, which sometimes happens when the heat is maintained too long; a note of the editor says, however, that water is not necessary in preparing this compound. Various substances may be incorporated with the glycerolate of starch, such as sulphur, tannin, iodide of potassium, calomel, &c. Dr. Attfield (' Pharm. Jouru.,' p. 388) advises that, in making solu- tions of the alkaloids in oils, they should be first combined with oleic acid, the oleates so formed being far more soluble than the free alka- loids. Quinine combines at the temperature of boiling water with twice its weight of oleic acid, forming a fluid oleate, which can bo mixed with cod-liver oil, or with other oils, when required. M. Lepage ('Jouru. de Pharm. et de Chim.,' p. 361) advocates the use of ether for the purpose of preserving the juices of plants, a plan originally suggested by Bourchardat. He has recently made some extract of bella- donna from juice preserved by means of ether, for more than ten years. During this time a deposit of earthy salts from the juice occurs. Lepage gives no details as to the method of employing the ether,EEPOET ON FOEENSIC MEDICINE. BY Dr. C. HILTON FAGGE. LITERATURE. Casper publishes, under the title of ' Klinische Novellen zur Gericht- liclien Medicin' (Berlin, Hirschwald, 1863), a ^'olume which is full of practical observations on niedico-legal questions. It contains 339 cases, which are all new. Among the questions discussed, is one which seems hitherto to have escaped notice, at least so far as systematic treatment of it is concerned—that of "priority of mode of death." It includes such points as the following :—Which of two M'ounds or bodily injuries was the actual cause of death? Did death arise from injury or disease, evidence of both being discovered at the autopsy ? In the first class of cases, if two accused persons have been known to have had different weapons in their possession, the question which of two wounds, having different chanicters, was the cause of death, may be essential to the conviction of the murderer. He also relates three cases, which bear on the question whether sodomy can be perpetrated by violence, during the resistance of the recipient. The most important of these was one of imputed crime, and Casper decided then that the performance of this act is not possible under such circumstances. He altogether denies that there is any peculiarity in the muscular development of the gluteal region in those who practise this act, and he has never seen the funnel-shaped condition of the anus on which Tardieu insists. But he attaches great importance to a peculiar conical sloping of the nates. The most valuable sign by far is the dis- appearance of the ordinary folds of the skin at the anus. He has never found any alteration iu the form of the penis, as a consequence of this practice. BLOOD-STAINS. J. Van Deen ('Bonders' und Berlin's Archiv,' Band iii, Heft 2; ' Canstatt,' Band vii, p. 62) has proposed a new and very delicate test for blood. The suspected stain is first treated with water, some444 IIKPOUT ON FOIIENSIC JIEDICINK, ozonized substance is then ndtled to it, and afterwards Tinct. Giiaiaci, when a distinct blue colour is developed. Oil of turpentine which has been kept for some time exposed to the air iisually contains enough ozone to effect this reaction, if a few drops of it be mixed with the solution of blood. According to Schonbein, the iron contained in the blood is the element which is concerned in this effect. Van Deen, therefore, made a series of experiments with different salts of iron. He found that the acetate, citrate, and chloride of iron produce the blue colour in a marked degree, and other salts less distinctly. The sulphate and subacctate of copper also give the same reaction as blood, when examined in this way. But the different red salts of lead and antimony, as well as various red vegetable colouring matters, logwood, brazil-wood, and sandal-wood, gave xiniformly negative results. The preparations of iron which give the blue colour are easily distinguished from blood by the caustic solution of ammonia, which forms a red precipitate in the iron solution, while it gives to blood a greenish-yellow tint. Old blood, kept in the fluid state, even though it be decomposed, reacts on this test more powerfully than blood recently drawn. Dr. Liman ('Casper,' 1863, Band xxiv, p. 193) records a series of ex- periments made with the object of testing the value of this process. At first he used oil of turpentine, which was artificially ozonized, but he soon found that this was superfluous. In order to ascertain whether oil of turpentine contains ozone, it is only necessary to examine whether it has the power of bleaching a solution of indigo. The tincture of guaiacum used should be freshly prepared from resin taken out of the centre of a lump, as it undergoes changes when exposed to the action of air and light, which may interfere with the success of the test. The most important of Liman's experiments are the following:— Exp. 8.—Blood two years old, dissolved in water, and diluted so that it formed one part in 3000, gave a distinct reaction. Exp. 12.—Recent blood, mixed with 6000 parts of water (in the proportion of one drop to eight ounces), assumed a clear blue colour, Exp. 13.—The same blood, added to water, so that it formed 47),V(T-oth part, gave no distinct coloration. Van Deen had been successful with blood even in this diluted condition. Exp. 14.—A few drops of rabbit's blood, poured into a glass, and diluted with water, so that the mixture was colourless, gave the reaction at once. Exp. 15—21.—Urine and bile gave no blue colour with this test, but they did not interfere with its development, when mixed with blood. Cherry juice gave negative results. Exp, 2^5—46 were made on blood-stains seated on various stuffs and tools. Blood on shirting, and on black and rose-coloured silk, on brown wool, and on wood, gave a deep-blue colour at once. Blood-stains fourteen days old were washed out with spring water; they were dried in the air, and were then soaked in water for twenty-four hours. There were then but slight traces of them visible ; the fluid was feebly coloured. The test was perfectly successful. In another experiment, the stained linen was washed, and dried by exposure to heat; The linen then had a greenish colour, and looked as if covered by spots of pus or mucus ; a distinct reaction was obtained. It is not necessary that the stains should be dissolved out for the application of this test, A piece of linen, on which there was a blood-stain some days445 BLOOD-STAINS. old, was moistened in a porcelain vessel with tincture of guaiacum. On the addition of oil of turpentine, the stain assumed an intense blue colour, without losing its form ; even when the stains were covered with excrement, so that they were hidden, they came into view on the applica- tion of this test Portions of linen dipped in blood, and then washed with liot M'ater and soap, so as to be colourless, gave a sky-blue colour in the most striking manner. The remaining experiments were for the purpose of testing the action of these reagents upon other substances. Exp. 47 showed that white tanned sheep's leather gives a distinct blue tint when placed in contact with oil of turpentine and tincture of guaiacum. A decoction of the leather gave the same reaction, but on steeping the leather in cold water no colour was obtained. The source of this effect could not be ascertained. Common filtering-paper slowly gave a very sliglit greenish-blue tint on the application of this test. Besides the iron salts mentioned by Van Deen, Liman found that the hydrated oxide of iron gives a feeble blue colour. He remarks that iron spots on clothing may be distinguished from blood-stains by their much sharper contours, and by their colour presenting only various shades of yellow, while blood-stains have an olive-green tint, especially when they have been washed. The solubility of iron-spots on linen in dilute hydrochloric acid also distinguishes them. It would be impossible to apply Van Deen's test to the diagnosis of blood-stains on iron weapons, as rust would give the same reaction. Liman's conclusions are as follows:—(i) When a suspected stain yields a negative result with this test, it certainly does not consist of blood. (2) When a positive reaction is obtained, it cannot be at once concluded that the stain arises from blood; but in all probability it is so (a) when its general appearance is that of a stain of dried blood, or of one that lias been washed ; (ft) when the substance on which the spot is found gives no reaction with this test by itself, or at least cold water iu which the stuff has been steeped is not coloured by this process, while a solution of the stain in cold water shows the blue tint; (y) when the spot is ascer- tained not to arise from any preparation of iron. It may be well to add that these investigations were made under the observation of Casper, and that he declares himself fully satisfied of the accuracy of the results arrived at. Pfaff has made some observations on the determination of the age of blood-stains in criminal cases ('Casper,' xx, 2; 'Canstatt,' Baud vii, p. 62). He finds that the solubility of blood-stains varies with the nature of the substance on which they are placed. He takes as the measure of solubility of a stain the time which is required for its edges to be no longer plainly distinguishable from the surrounding clean parts of the texture, when it is acted on by an arsenical solution in the pro- portion of gr. j to 5'j of distilled water. The change of colour of a blood- stain, from crimson to brown, occurs only by a series of gradations, in the course of several months; and solutions of blood of various ages differ, like the spots, in their tints. The bleaching action of chlorine may be used to ascertain the age of blood-stains, as it is exerted more slowly iu proportion to the length of time they have existed. lloppc ('Virchow's Archiv,' xxiii, p. 446) appears to have been theREPOET ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. 446 first to show that the solar spectrum, when transmitted through a layer of blood, or of a liquid containing blood, presents two defined dark Hnes. Tiicse bands are situated in the yellow and the green, between Frauenhofer's D and E. One of them is pretty near to the double line D J the other is not quite so close to E. Tbeir breadth is rather less than that of the part of the spectrum between E and b. In order that they may be well defined, dilute solutions of blood must be employed. If the fluid be stronger, the bands increase in size, at the expense of the intervening space, and ultimately they coalesce. When the concentra- tion of the fluid is still greater, the violet and blue parts of the spectrum disappear, and afterwards the green : so that at last only the red and the orange, and the space between E and b, remain visible. Valentin, in his book on the spectroscope (Leipzig, 1863;'v. ' Prag. Vjschrft.,' 1863, vol. ii, p. iii) gives the results of his investigations on the application of this instrument to the detection of blood-stains. Some further observations on the same subject are also contained in ' Virchow's Archiv ' (xxvi, 1863, p.580). Valentin states that one part of blood in 2000 —3000 of water is easily discovered by this means, and that under favor- able circumstances the test is successful with solutions containing only i"5"2?55TT of blood. The suspected stains should first be scraped, and treated with water at a temperature not higher than 40° C. If they are very old, three or four days are often required for water to extract from them all that it is capable of dissolving. A thick layer of the fluid should be subjected to this test, as the lines are darker in proportion to the length of the path of the ray through it. Some kinds of bile also give lines in the green part of the spectrum; however, on dilution of the fluid with water, they disappear far more quickly than those which arise from the presence of blood. If the dark lines are not seen when a suspected fluid is examined, it must not be concluded that blood is not present, for old stains may be so altered by decomposition, by the action of heat, or by acids or caustic alkalies, that the lines do not show themselves. Stains of blood exposed to the action of sulphuretted hydrogen in a water-closet or elsewhere, would not be detected by the spectroscope in so dilute solutions as fresh spots. The frequency with which the aniline colours are now used as dies for clothing renders the comparison of their spectrum with that of blood of some interest, since they also give two dark lines when examined by the spectroscope. The position of the lines produced by blood and those due to the presence of fuchsin is, however, diSierent. One of them does indeed occupy nearly the same part of the spectrum in the case of each fluid ; but the fuchsin band begins slightly nearer to the red end of the spectrum, while the line produced by blood extends rather further towards the violet extremity. The positions of the other lines are quite diflferent. That of fuchsin (the one of the fuchsin bands which is not constant) lies between b and F, while that of blood is situated near D. Erdmann ('Ztschrft. f. anal, claim.,' 1862; ' Priig. Yjschrft.,' vol. ii, 1863, p. no) relates a case in which the discovery of a spot on the ground, which after rain presented all the appearance of coagulated blood, gave rise to suspicions of violence; a human body being also found, and the cause of death being unknown. When part of this spot was treated447 SUICIDE. with water, a red solution was obtained. This gave the same reactions, with tannic aqid and with the ferrocyanide of potassium, as sohitions of dried blood. Under the microscope, bodies like blood-corpuscles were seen, but no blood-crystals could be obtained. Further investigation showed that the stain was not one of blood, and that the supposed blood- discs were the spores of an alga, which is therefore named the Porphy- ridium cruentum. This case shows the value, as Erdmann remarks, of the crystallization-test for blood. SIGNS OF DEATH. Dr. Taylor and Dr. Wilks ('Guy's H. Eep.,' 1863, p. 180) have made observations on the rate of cooling after death in 100 cases of various forms of accident and disease. The results which they obtained are thus represented in a tabular form : Number of observations Fiist period, two to tliree llOUTB. Sscond period, fotir to six houi-a. Third period, six to eight hours. Fourth period, twelve hours. 76 49 29 35 Maximum temperature of body 94° 86° 80° 79° Minimum temperature of body 60° 62° 60° S6° Average temperature of body 77° 74° 70° 69° The temperature was estimated in each case by placing a thermometer- bulb upon the abdomen. The period from which the calculations start is not that which had elapsed after death, but that which had passed since the body was brought into the dead-house, which took place generally in from two to four hours, but in some cases not till ten or twelve hours after the time of death. Some curious anomalies were observed in these investigations. In the body of a man who died from Bright's disease, with erysipelas, the temperature was 72° two hours after death, and 74° four hours after death, though the temperature of the air at the time was 42°. The internal organs often retained a high temperature for a long time. In one case it was 76° more than eight hours after death, that of the air being 49°. SUICIDE. M. Legouest ('Gaz. des Hop.,' No. 53, 1B63) gives a good account of the different methods of committing suicide with firearms, which is the way usually adopted by military men. Some stand upright, and, throwing the head back, place the muzzle beneath their chin, pulling the trigger by means of their foot, if they use a gun. The ball in these cases usually passes through the face, causing frightful injury, but not entering the cranial cavity. Others lie down, placing the muzzle of the gun in the same way ; they are more likely to succeed in their object, since they do net throw the head so much back. Others, again, apply the weapon to the outer side of the cranium. The bullet then usually enters the brain, but it may glance off the bone if the gun is held obliquely, and may passREPORT ON FOREX SIC MEDICINE. 448 out through the chin, or lodge in the soft parts. When the muzzle is placed in the huccal cavity the course of the bullet is very variable ; it may even remain in the mouth, and be spat out immediately afterwards. The explosion of the powder usually produces frightful eflects in these cases. BURNS. Professor Maschka (' Prag. Vjschrft.,' 1863, vol. iii, p. 36) relates the following interesting case. In the body of a man who perished during a fire, in whom almost all the soft parts were carbonized, a crack was found in the left parietal bone, which was itself burned and superficially charred. No signs of reaction were discovered at the seat of the fracture ; but this was accounted for on the supposition that the action of the flames had destroyed these appearances, and it was thought that the dead man must have received a blow on the head before the fire occurred. Maschka therefore made some experiments to decide this point. He found that the effects of fire on the cranial bones vary with the age of the body experi- mented on. In very young children cracks are produced in a very short time, sometimes in a few seconds. These generally radiate from the centre of ossification of the bone, and have often a remarkable resemblance to the fissures which are produced during life, especially when, as sometimes happens, they are seated, not exactly at the spot where the flame is applied, but in its neigbbourhood. In the bones of older individuals very different effects are produced ; after the flame has acted for some time, varying from two or three minutes to an hour and a half, according to the age and compactness of the bone, the external table separates and exposes the diploe; at the same time fissures make their appearance in the vitreous plate, which often breaks to pieces. The bones of young subjects also become brittle, so that pressure or a fall on the ground is sufficient to cause fractures of them; in older bones this does not occur. The origin of the injury to the bone in the case which gave rise to these in- vestigations was therefore left undetermined. Dr. Buzzard ('Lancet,'vol. i, 1863, p. 60) gives an account of the appearances found in the bodies of six children who were killed by fire. The examination was made sixty hours after death. The rigor mortis was well marked. The extremities were contracted, and the fingers were firmly clenched. The faces and necks, and in some of the children the hands, were blackened with smoke. The features showed no signs of suffering; one child was found on the floor, but the others were iu their beds, so that there appears not to have been any very active struggle for life. One of the bodies only was opened ; from the appearances found it was concluded that the cause of death was not suffocation, as was previously supposed. The lungs were, indeed, congested, but the blood which they contained was un- usually florid, and all the cavities of the heart were quite empty. The vessels on the surface of the brain appeared to be somewhat congested with pink blood; the sinuses were not well filled ; the blood which they contained, as well as all that was found in the body, was qidte fluid and of a red colour. Extensive vesication existed over the greater part of the body in all these children, and especially on the posterior surface of the trunk and of the extremities. The size of these vesications was very various; many were asDROWNING. 449 large ns the pnlm of the hand. They were all broiccii; the evidence of their existence appears to have been the separation of the cuticle. In some of the corpses the cuticle of the foot had become detaclied, carrying with it some of the toe-nails. The skin of these parts of the surface was of a crimson colour, and that between the vesications was of a rose- pink tint, especially near the vesications. The hands were the parts moat burnt. In one child the left hand was terribly burnt, the last two phalanges of the fingers being absent, and the remaining ones protruding through the charred tissues. The areolar tissue beneath the skin was of a brilliant red colour, the intensity of which varied M'ith the hue of the skin. In two of the children fissures existed along the back of the i-ight forearm and wrist, which were four inches or more iu length, and three or four lines in depth ; they were straight, with clean edges, as though cut M'ith a knife ; some of the tendons were exposed, but apparently were not injured. These fissures contained no blood. On the faces of some of the children there was a small quantity of adipose matter, which had apparently burst through the skin in a melted condition, and had afterwards solidified. Tiiese injuries were apparently produced, not by flame, but by intensely heated air. The night-dresses of the children and the bedding of the room were not much burnt. HANGING. Prof. Maschka, in his paper on medico-legal errors (in the 'Prag. Vjschrft.,' 1863, vol. iii, p. 13), makes some observations on death from hanging. He records the case of a woman who was found with her throat cut, and with a mark on her neck of a.yellow colour, and in a hard, parch- ment-like condition, evidently produced by a rope. Her husband asserted that he had found her hanging, and had cut her down some hours before she made a second and successful attempt at suicide by cutting her throat. It was argued by certain medical jurists that this could not be true, because, if it were, the mark of constriction would have disappeared before death. Maschka, however, states that he has in three instances observed the mark on the neck to remain visible for several days after resuscitation from hanging. He agrees with Casper that pallor of the face is no proof that hanging was not the cause of death. He also remarks that exudations of blood beneath the mark produced by the cord, though frequent and extensive in those who are executed by hanging, are exceptional under other circum- stances. Fracture of the cervical vertebrte is also never found by him in other than judicial cases. He ascribes them both to the violent twist given to the neck by the executioner. The absence of exudations of blood beneath the mark on the neck is therefore not an evidence of the hanging having been post-mortem. He quotes a case recorded by Kocker ('Wien. Med. Woch.,'1862, Nos. 33, 34), where a murk on the neck, caused by an iron chain after death, presented a considerable extravasation of blood, which was coaguhited. DROWNING. Prof. Maschka ('Priig. Vjschrft.' 1863, vol. iii, p. 13) argues with Casper that the cutis anserina is no positive proof of death having been caused by drowning. He also thinks that it is not present more fre- quently in tlie bodies of healthy persona who have died suddenly than in 2\)4..50 REPORT ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. tliose who linve died from disease, wliile CnBper holds the contrary opinion. Mnschkn has frequently seen it developed some hours afterwards, wiien it did not e.\ist at the time of death. Still less importance is to he attached to the soaked appearance of the hands and feet, since, if the hody of a person immersed during life he removed soon after death from the water, this soaked appearance is ahsent, wliile it shows itself in bodies already dead, if they be kept in fluid for some time. The presence of sand or mud under the nails is also worthless as evidence of death by drowning. Dr. Mayer ('Bayer, iirztl. Intell.151.,'—'Schmidt,' Jan. 1863, p. 84) relates the following case:—Two persons, digging in a shaft, came upon a subter- ranean collection of water; the fluid rushed into the shaft so quickly that they were with difiicuity saved. One of them, who never lost his consciousness, said afterwards that he resisted swallowing the water as long as he could, but that at length he was compelled to do it, as he was holding his breath under water, and making only expirations. Soon after his recovery he vomited a quantity of sandy mud. The other, a girl, evidently sucked the same substance into her air-passages, for slie had a severe attack of pneumonia, and during the first four days mud was contained in tiie expectoration. Houze de I'Aulnoit ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 234) made an experiment to test the question whether fluids can enter the stomach after death. He placed some blue fluid in the mouth of a corpse, and left the body for three hours in an upright position. The cardiac orifice of the stomach was then ligatured, and on opening the organ none of the blue fluid was found in it. The oesophagus was equally free from its presence; but a blue tint in the larynx, trachea, and bronchi, showed that it had pene- trated into these passages. The result of this experiment, therefore, is the same as that attained by others who have worked at the same subject. Liman remarks (' Casper,' xxi, p. 193) that this question is not of much practical interest so far as adults are concerned, for in them it is compara- tively rare to discover substances of a specific nature in the stomach. But infants are often found in privies, when the only sign of death by drown- ing is the presence of faeces in the stomach. He has therefore instituted some experiments, which were made on newly born infants. He em- ployed in these investigations, a mixture of garden-mould and peat-sand in water. The presence of this fluid in the corpses experimented on was dis- covered not merely by the colour, which had been found iiisuflicicnt for the purpose, but also by the grittiness of the particles of sand. The bodies of the infants were placed in this fluid, lying on their back, with the face up- permost ; the mouth was usually open. The results he obtained were that in sixteen experiments the fluid was detected seven times in the stomach, and in fourteen cases it was present in a greater or less degree in the oeso- phagus, trachea, and throat. Only twice were all these parts entirely free from its presence. The time during which the body lay in the fluid was without influence on these results. In two cases he found the fluid in the stomach when the body had been only two days immersed, and the same thing was observed even when the body was simply dipped m the fluid and immediately removed; while in other subjects, which lay some time in the fluid, this was not found to be the case. The degree of de- composition was also found to be immaterial; in two bodies which liad been preserved in an ice-cellar fluid liad entered the stomach, but in a4.51 decomposed foetus nothing was discovered in tliat organ. It is also a matter of indifference whether the body be held by the legs or by the head when it is removed from the fluid. The importance of finding sub- stances of a specific nature in the stomach of an infant is therefoi'e, so far as experiment is concerned, reduced to the same level as that of their presence in the parenchyma of tlie lungs. They are not to be taken as proof that the child was immersed in the fluid during life. The fact that only solid substances are present in a particular case is not of greater value, for the fluid which entered the stomach at the same time may have passed away by evaporation. Liman observes, in reference to the presence of frothy fluid in the lung-tissue, that it may often be detected when the head has already become black from decomposition. It disappears much more quickly from the air-passages. It is one of the most useful signs of death by drowning; but it may also be present in any slow form of death by suffocation, as, for instance, in cases of poisoning by carbonic-acid gas. It affords no proof that the drowning person rose to the surface after having been immersed, as is supposed by some authors. He attaches great im- portance to the increase in the volume of the lung, which is insisted on especially by Casper. Without any exception, he has found the lungs in drowned persons, not only filling the chest, but protruding when the sternum is removed. The value of this state is increased by the fact that it may be observed after the disappearance of all the fluid from the air- passages, and when the condition of the blood has ceased to give any indica- tion as to the cause of death. The anterior parts of the lungs are especially distended, and their air-cells may even be ruptured. A condition similar, but always, according to Liman, less marked, is found in other forms of sufl'ocative death, as in cases of bronchitis and of oedema of the lungs. Dr. Richardson ('Lancet,' 1863, vol. i, p. 550) records the successful application of a process by which the appearance of a body, decomposed and altered by immersion in water, may be restored, so that it can be identified. Tiie plan which he recommends is as follows:—The naked body is to be placed in a water-tight shell, into which a large tap for the escape of water has been fitted ; and a stream of the fluid should be allowed to pass over it, so as thoroughly to cleanse it. The body is then to be covered with water, and to be fixed beneath the surface of the fluid; and a lid, in which two apertures have been made, is to be fastened on to the shell. Through one of these openings a stream of chlorine gas is to be passed into the water in the shell; tlirough the other a glass tube is to pass, which is to be bent, so as to pass beneath the surface of water in a glass vessel. The escape of chlorine by this tube indicates the saturation of the fluid in the shell with the gas."^ The shell is then to be completely closed, and left undisturbed for twelve hours. The object of this proceeding is to remove the black colour of the skin and to render it white. At the end of this time, a quantity of common salt is to be added to the liquid in the shell, until it has a specific gravity of iioo. Exosmosis will take place from the body into the fluid, and this will reduce the tumefaction ; the.body is to be left in this solution during another twelve hours. If necessary, a further improvement of the appearance of the face may be effected by injecting into the external carotids, first two or three ounces of a solution of chlorine, containing about l^^xx of Tiiict. Fcrri Sesquichlor., and afterwards a saturated solution of common salt in milk, the injection452 REPORT ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. being cnrried just fiu- enough to produce a slight tension of the structures of the face. If it be desired to keep tlie body for some time, it sliould be covered with methylated spirit, containing a little Tinct, Ferr. Seficiuichlor., and the air should be excluded. In the case in which Dr. Richardson conducted this process he was only able to carry it out during six hours. At the commencement the face was as black as that of a negro; (he lips were immenselv distended, and the nose was scarcely visible. It could not be identified. When a stream of chlorine gas was passed over the face, its colour changed to a whitish tint; but as soon as the current of gas was stopped, a grayish or clay-like hue returned. The result of the adoption of this method was that three witnesses were able to swear positively that the body was not that of a suspected murderer. STEKILITY. Mr. Curling ('Lancet,' vol. ii, p. ii) discusses the question of sterility in the male sex, showing that it may coexist with perfect virility, the semen being found to contain no spermatozoa. He decides that marriage is not justifiable when this condition is known to exist, but he thinks that its discovery after marriage is not a sufficient ground for divorce. RAPE. _ Moriz ('Casper,' xxiii, p. 337) relates a case of rape of a girl, aged six years, followed by strangulation, and remarkable from the extent of the injury inflicted. The child was found dead, and the perpetrator of the crime was not discovered, though a man was noticed to be with her on the day when she was last seen alive. The vagina was open, and had a diameter of one inch and a quarter, the h3'^men was torn across, and the lace- ration extended three eighths of an inch into the periuaeum. Tiie edges of the wound were sharp, but infiltrated with blood. At the entrance of the vagina numerous spots of coagulated blood existed beneath the mucous membrane ; similar extravasations were found in the whole length of the canal, which was not otherwise injured, though it appeared to be dilated. Some spots on the child's clothes resembled semen, but were not proved to consist of that fluid. There is, therefore, no absolute certainty as to the mode in which the injury was produced. C.ES.\.REAN SECTION. Dr. Berg ('Casper,' xxiv, Ileft 3, p. 219) cites the Russian law as to the performance of this operation in women who die during pregnancy, and discusses the changes in it which he thinks advisable. He believes that there is no chance of saving the life of the infant for more than a very short time by this means ; but it not rarely survives some hours, so that it can be baptized. At present there are legal obstructions to the performance of this operation in Russia which ought to be removed. The surgeon must inform the police. They summon the legal deputies to the spot, and the medical man is then commissioned in writing to perforni the Cfesarean section in presence of the deputation. It is not difficult to conceive that, after these formalities have been gone through, no success is ever attained. The law which Dr. Berg recommends is the following : I. All medical men, without exception, to practise this operation as soon as they receive information of (he death of a woman during preg-INFANTICIDE. 453 nnncy. After the operation is completed they must communicate the result to the police and to the public medical authorities. 2. The Ctesarean section is, however, only to be performed under the following circumstances:—(i) When no other obstetrical operation can save the life of the foetus. (3) When the woman has reached the thirty- third week of gestation. (3) When the medical man is fully convinced that her death has actually occurred. (4) When she has not been more than twenty minutes dead. 3. The same care is to be observed as in the living subject, and the rules of obstetrical practice are to be carried out; the necessary strappings are to be applied in order to close the wound. Burial of the body is not to take place till putrefaction has commenced. 4. The operation is not to be performed when the woman died of any disease, as, for example, cholera, which is known to kill the fcetus in utero, before the mother. INFANTICIDE. Casper ('Vjschrft. f. Ger. Med.,' xxii. Heft i, p. i) gives a full account of some experiments made by him in order to ascertain the effects of injuries of different kinds on the skulls of infants. He thinks that it is indubitable that the methods which are adopted to conceal the bodies of children born in secret, whether born dead or killed by accident or intention, often produce injuries which may be attributed to ante-mortem violence. The existence of hypersemia of the brain, or an increase in the extravasation beneath the cranial integuments, might easily, when accom- panying such injuries, lead to the most serious errors. The frequency witii which such questions arise is shown by the fact that examinations of the bodies of infants form a fourth part of the medico-legal autopsies per- formed in Berlin. Hohl has denied that the completion of birth ever occurs while the mother is standing, but Casper cites cases which sufficiently refute this statement. He also quotes a case narrated by Heyland, in which the fcetus, expelled whilst the mother was in the erect posture, fell on a brick floor. No injury could be detected at the time, but the infant died of atrophy at the end of three weeks, and the remains of an extravasation of blood were then found between the dura mater and tlie right parietal bone. At this point the inner surface of the bone was rough and hol- lowed out, and the vitreous table was absent. The outer surface of the bone was also roughened. This case appears to show that injuries to the fcetal skull miiy arise from falls on tlie floor during birth, and twenty-five experiments were therefore made to determine this point. The bodies used were those of newly born children, in some cases of children a few days or even some weeks old. In some instances decomposition had commenced, but in none was it complete. They were held by the feet suspended, so that the head was two and a half feet from the ground, and were allowed to fall—in ten of the experiments on an asphalte floor, in fifteen, on the stone pavement of the street. As a rule, no injury which was visible on the surface was produced in this way, but fractures of the bones were found in every instance but one, and this one exception is not very important, for the body was that of an immature fcetus, with very yielding bones. As would be expected fromHEPOUT ON FOUENSIC MEDICINE. 454 wlint is observed dnring parturition, the parietal bones were most fre- quently broken. Fracture of one parietal bone was found sixteen times, and fracture of both parietal bones six times. In one instance one part of the frontal, as well as one parietal, was broken ; once the fracture occupied both portions of the frontal, without involving any otiier bone; and once the occipital alone was the seat of it. Hence it would appear that the presence of numerous fractures of different cranial bones does not admit of explanation in this way. The form of these injuries is also peculiar. Almost without exception, they radiate from the parietal pro- tuberance. One, two, or even three, fissures extend from this point to the margin of the bone; one of them, perhaps, extending across the sagittal suture into the opposite parietal bone. In two of the experi- ments a small portion of the bone was altogether broken off. In other experiments the bodies of infants were subjected to injuries of different kinds. In two instances the corpse of a foetus was allowed to fall from the post-mortem-room table on to the floor ; the parietal bone was fractured in each case. When the head of a child was trodden on with heeled boots, fractures were always produced; they were seated, not only in the parietal bone touched by the boot, but also in the oppo- site one, and they resembled very much the effects of violence done to the living infant. Extensive injuries to the bones were also caused by dashing the foetal head violently against the wall or against the corner of the table. In another series of experiments the child was buried, and the ground was then stamped down till it was level. The corpse was only placed two or three inches beneath the surface. No injury resulted to any part except the head. In three of the four experiments extensive fractures of the cranial bones, on the side to which the force was applied, were found. In the fourth case no effect whatever was produced. On the other hand, forcible compression 0/ the foetal head with the hands, repeated three times, gave rise to no injury. Negative results were also obtained in two experiments in which corpses of infants were placed on a hard surface, and a strong man then lay suddenly down upon them. Compressing the foetal head into a narrow space produced, in two instances, no fracture of the bones, while in the third a small cleft extended from the lambdoidal suture into the left parietal bone, and the coronal suture was separated for a short space. Casper remarks, how- ever, that too much reliance must not be placed on the absence of frac- tures in many of these experiments, for in the adult the dead crauium offers far greater resistance to violence than the living, and this may be the case also in the infant. Direct blows on the foetal head with a mallet or a block of wood pro- duced, of course, extensive injuries of the bones. But in these, as well as in all the other experiments, the fractured edges of the bones were very different from those which are found when the injury has been inflicted during the infant's life. They were quite smooth and sharp, and are compiiredby Cnsper to cracks in glass; they were also not infilirated wiih blood. In only five out of the sixty observations were the edges finely toothed at certain parts. On tlie other hand, fractures of the living bones are irregular and anj^ular, and their edges are more or less infiltrated with blood. Detachment of the dura mater from the bones, separation of the SlUures, extravasations of blood beneath the pericranium, and the formn-INFANTICIDE. 455 tion of congula at the seat of fracture, are by no means peculiar to injuries inflicted on tlie living subject. Extravasations of blood, usually more or less coagulated, were almost constantly found in these experi- ments, and the other appearances mentioned were far from infrequent. Appended to this paper are reports of nine cases in which the facts ascertained by these experiments were applied. In Cases i and 4 the fractures were far more numerous than those observed in these investi- gations; but, fj"oni the characters presented by the broken edges of the bones, it was concluded that the injuries had occurred after death. Prof. Luschka ('Jlenle's Ztchrft. f. rat. Med.,' xviii, p. 188) draws at- tention to the peculiar condition of the lips in newly born children, con- sisting of an outer smooth zone and an inner villous zone, with a well- marked furrow between them. When the mouth is gently closed, the ap- pearance of a double lip is produced. The inner zone is obliterated as the infant grows older. It is of interest, chiefly because after death it becomes dry and brown, resembling an eschar, the desiccation extending even into the submucous tissue. In a case recorded by Maschka (' Prag. Vjschrft.,' 1863, vol. iii, p. 13), this appearance gave rise to the idea that death arose from viofence, and it might easily suggest the suspicion that sulphuric acid or some other destructive agent had been administered. In the same paper, Maschka observes that a dried, parchment-like con- dition of the umbilical cord of an infant is no proof that it lived after birth ; the funis itself undergoes exactly the same changes in the dead as in the living child. Haemorrhage from the umbilical cord very rarely occurs in children who breathe well, and in whom it is not cut very short. The absence of blood in the body is an important indication of this mode of death ; but it is well to remember that decomposition may also cause the disappearance of blood from a corpse. In a case related by Mascarel ('Un. Med.,' Ixxviii, 1863) the fact that no hsemorriiage had occurred from the funis, though no ligature had been applied, led to the conclusion that suffocation was probably effected during birth rather than after its completion. A folded cloth was tied over the face, so as to cover the mouth and nose. If this cloth had not been found in situ, it would have been impossible to say how the asphyxia had been occasioned, for no mark was produced by it on the neck or face. Dr. Chleborad ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' p. 60) gives a case of infanticide in which suffocation seems to have been produced in rather an unusual way. A cloth twisted up into a cord was found passing under the left armpit and over the chin and the right side of the head, so as to bind the head down to the left shoulder. It produced a deep furrow in the skin, and an ecchymosis and swelling in tlie temporal region; it was therefore evidently applied during life. Chleborad ascribed death to the forcible compression of the chest and neck. Another case given by Maschka (loc. cit.) is the follow- ing :—An infant was found dead, and an argument in favour of death having occurred from violence was drawn from the fact that the nostrils appeared to be compressed, and the tip of the nose flattened. This was, however, set aside by Maschkn, on the ground that during the first hour after death parts return to their original position as soon as pressure is removed. It is only when rigor mortis is coming on that a permanent distortion can be produced by compression.REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. BY De. C. HILTON FAGQE. CAUSES OF DISEASE. The address on Public Health by Prof. Cliristison, at the meeting of the National Association for the Promotion of Social Science, held in Edinburgli, 1863, contains some interesting views as to the causes of some forms of disease. Scotland is now altogether free from ague, yet for- merly this disease was very prevalent in some parts of the countrj% for example, in the counties of Berwick and Roxbnrgli. He doubts the cor- rectness of the theory, tliat this has arisen from the improvements in drainage, wliich occurred about the same time, for he stales that the dis- appearance of ague preceded the introduction of improved drainage. The cause of relapsing fever is, he tliinks, penury and deficiency of venti- lation. Sporadic typhus is not, in his opinion, caused by infection : at least, those cases of it which occur in the higher ranks of life, are not at- tributable to that cause, for it is found that, with the most ordinary care, the disease does not spread from the patient to those who visit or nurse him. Yet they must be far longer exposed to its influence tlian was the affected person. Equally untenable is the view that it generally originates in faulty drainage or in foul air. During the last ten years the number of cases of typhus in Edinburgh has undergone a remarkable decrease. Tlie drainage lias also been improved ; but the decrease of fever began decidedly before the commencement of that reform. Dr. Christison himself ascribes it to a change of type and constitution in epidemic disease. He also dissents from the view that enteric fever is in any way caused by faulty drainage. This form of fever lias been increasing in Edinburgh recently, while the street drains have been improved. No cases occur in or near the cele- brated "foul meadows" of Craigentinny, nor can individual cases of the disease be traced to any such cause. The causation of phthisis is then considered. He thinks that it arises chiefly from a conjunction of defective exercise and of exclusion from the open air. He then quotes the statement of Dr. Macrae, that phthisis does not occur among the natives of the western islands. In Lewis the disease is said to be entirely confined to strangers temporarily resident there, and to natives who have contracted the disease elsewhere. Those who remain in the island are exempt from it, except in a few rare instances, when it has been brought on under long privation of food and exposure to cold. Dr. McColi, of Mull, bears out this statement. It is not supported by the Scottish register; but it is admitted that this isOCCUPATIONS. 457 too imperfect to be a safe guide in this question. According to tliis register, it appears that the total mortality in Scotland is lower than in any other kingdom in Europe, being only i in 48 annually. OCCUPATIOlfS. MM. Be'court and Chevallier ('Ann. d'llyg.,' July, 1863, p. 83) draw attention to the injurious effects produced in the workmen engaged in the manufacture of the bichromate of potass. Information obtained from an establishment at Rixheim shows that the preparation of the neutral chro- mate does not affect the health of the men employed. But during the conversion of the chromate into the bichromate, wliich is effected by the addition of an acid at a boiling temperature, the vapour carries off a number of fine particles, which are dispersed through the chamber, and are easily seen in a beam of sunlight. They have been proved to consist of the bichromate of potass. Tiiey enter the mouth, and give rise to a bitter metallic taste; but, as the fluids in that cavity are constantly being discharged and renewed, no ill effects are produced. Very different is the result when the molecules of the salt enter the nose with the inspired air. They then become dissolved in the fluid which covers the nasal mucous membrane, and cause extreme irritation, with increased secretion of the tears and incessant sneezing. This affection becomes established about five or six days after the workman is first exposed to the action of the salt. Soon portions of the mucous membrane covering the septum became detached and are found in the handkerchief, and after six or eight days the bony septum itself becomes thin, and at last is destroyed. An aperture results, wliich in one instance was one centimetre broad by one and a half centrimetre high. As soon as this has occurred, all the symptoms cease. The workman only knows that his septum is gone from the fact that .all his distress is at an end. The sense of smell is un- affected. M. Clouet, the director of the manufactory at Havre, thought it rather more acute in his own case than it was before. All persons exposed to the action of the particles of the salt are thus affected. Two children of M. Clouet have already lost the septum nasi. There is a remarkable exception in the case of those who take snuff; either this substance pro- tects the mucous membrane from the contact of the bichromate of potass, or the increased secretion from the mucous membrane prevents its injurious effects, for these workmen altogether escape this affection. When applied to the uninjured skin, even concentrated solutions of the bichromate of potass pi-oduce no evil effects. The hand may with im- punity be left in contact with the salt for a whole day. But if there be the smallest wound, such, for instance, as the prick of a pin, a smarting pain is felt when such a solution is allowed to touch the skin; and if its application to the sore is continued for a few minute.«, it acts as a caustic, setting up violent inflammation, and destroying all the tissues, down even to the bone. The pain is found to be much more severe in the cold weather of winter than in warm seasons of the year. These effects occur most frequently in the hands, and the observation of them in a manufac- tory near Paris first led to the inquiry as to the injurious operation of this salt. The treatment of these sores, which experience shows to be the mostKEPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 458 useful, is to reduce the inflammation by poultices, and then to wash the part affected with a solution of subncetate of lead in weak alcohol. Mr. Tliyson recommends the application of a solution of nitrate of silver. By observing proper care, tlie workmen avoid these results of the contact of the bichromate of potass with the skin. In those who are insufficiently clad another effect has been observed. Violent itching of the skin and suppuration of the moist part of the penis are produced. Similar local effects are observed in animals which enter the manufac- tory of this salt. Inflammation of the foot, with separation of the hoof, occurs in horses which tread in water containing the bichromate; and dogs, cats, and rats are also affected. The effects produced by this manufacture were first observed at an establishment near Havre ; but Mr. Thyson, of Baltimore, has written to confirm these statements in every essential particular. It is not yet known whether similar symptoms are produced in the workmen employed in this occupation in England and Germany. At Baltimore a piece of sponge is placed in each nostril, and this is found to protect the men from the action of the salt on the nose. In the Frencli manufactory only those men who have already lost the nasal aperture are allowed to enter the cliambers in which the ebullition of the salt takes place; but even then the affection is often caused in other workmen by their introducing the end of the finger, covered with the bichromate, into the nostrils. It is necessary to add that MM. Becourt and Chevallier do not state that they have verified these statements, or that any surgeon has done so. Caoutchouc souffle.—M. Delpech had already pointed out the injurious action of the bisulphide of carbon on workmen M'ho use it in their busi- ness. He now ('Ann. d'Hyg.,' 1863, Jan., p. 65) investigates these effects as they show themselves in those who make the coloured balls con- taining gas which are sold as toys. In preparing them, a hollow globe, the size of a walnut, is made of caoutchouc. This is then dipped for two minutes into a liquid containing sulphide of carbon, with a small quan- tity of chloride or bromide of sulphur. The effect of this operation is to soften the caoutchouc, and to give it the peculiar impermeability which enables it to be blown into a large globe. A small quantity of the vapour of the sulphide of carbon is diffused into the workshops, and may always be detected by the smell. The men are subject to symptoms of a peculiar kind, which are divisible into two periods, though in many cases mixed forms are observed. A stage of excitement is first produced, charac- terised by headache, pains and cramps in the limbs, giddiness, and dim- ness of sight. The mind is also disturbed; there is loquacity, causeless laughter, or weeping; and even mania may occur. Epileptic convulsions have been observed in two cases, and frequently during experiments on animals. The gustatory sense is often perverted, everything tasting of sul- phur. Menorrhagia is not infrequent in women, and great excitement of the sexual desires in men. This condition is followed by a period of depression. The symptoms are now the following:—lowness of spirits, somnolence, loss of memory, ansesthesia of the skin, dimness of sight, and deafness. The sexual functions are especially perverted; there is impotence, with loss of desire and of the power of erection. In a boy who had been employed in one of these workshops from the age of ten, theOCCUPATIONS. 459 testes remained undeveloped. Women, too, lose the same feelings, and very rarely bear children. There is also some reason to suppose that atrophy of the raammse occurs. Another symptom is muscular paralysis ; this is often of a paraplegic form, and it is possible that it and the ansea- thesia of the legs may be due to the direct local action of the vapour, for its high specific gravity causes it to accumulate in the lower part of the room. A numb condition of the hands is often noticed after they have been exposed to the action of the liquid. The prognosis of this affection is not very unfavorable. Those who leave the workshops recover; but as a rule, only imperfectly. In one establishment these effects have been prevented by placing a partition between the workmen and their work, with holes in it for their hands to pass through, these being further closed by impermeable muffs, fixed round the wrists. Three workmen sit side by side, and between them complete the whole operation. Phosphorus has been found very useful in this affection, in doses of from one to three milligrammes. The nature of the effects produced by sulphide of carbon has suggested the idea that the inhalation of its vapour might be useful in the treat- ment of hysteria and of nymphomania. Lucifer matches.—Dr. Bristowe (' Fifth Report of the Medical OfEcer of the Privy Council,' p. 162, Appendix) has visited all the establish- ments known to exist in England for the manufacture of matches. They are fifty-seven in number, and 2500 hands are employed. He could get authentic information of no more than fifty-nine cases of necrosis of the jaw having arisen from this occupation. The number is now probably not more than two or three annually. It is believed that the disease might be entirely prevented by effective ventilation, and by restricting as much as possible the number of workmen exposed directly to the fumes. A very striking instance of the good results which follow the observance of these precautions, is that of a manufactory in which twenty- four cases had occurred, but in which not a single example of the affec- tion has presented itself since these changes were adopted. Dr. Bristowe obtained no evidence that this occupation affects the health injuriously in any other respect. He does not quite accept the ordinary view that caries of the teeth is a necessary antecedent of this disease, though he thinks that it is preceded by, and dependent on, some local unhealthy condition. It does not seem to occur in factories in which phosphorus is used for purposes other than the making of matches. Carbonaceous disease of colliers.—M. Kuborn, in his work on the dis- eases of colliers (Paris, 186,3; ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 77, 1863), comes to the following conclusions :—(i) Particles of carbon are inhaled, and line the bronchia and air-cells; they also enter the tissue of the lungs, and are taken up by the radicles of the lymphatics, and carried to the glands. (2) The black substance expectorated by these men, and that found in their lungs, is really "fossil carbon," and is not deposited from the blood. (3) It is not injurious, like silica or the powder of steel; and it does not predispose to the development of phthisis, though it may lead to disturb- ance of the respiratory circulation and to the development of pulmonary emphysema, it may also aggravate bronchitis. (4) The so-called me- lanotic phthisis is a compound all'ection; it consists of various forms ofJIEPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 4G0 pulmonary disease, one of which coexists with the black deposit in each case, (5) The black colour of the sputa is of no value in the diagnosis of this allection. In true melanosis it is of importance. Mi7ie disease.—Rav/itz ('Pr. Mihtariirzt. Ztg.,' 11, 12, 1862 ; ' Schmidt,' 1863, i, p. 85) looks on the affection which occurs in mines, and which was first described by Josephson, as an effect of poisoning by sulphuretted hydrogen gas, the action of this substance being exerted on the blood, and especially on the blood-corpuscles. Those who have suffered from it several times say that they first perceive a sweetish taste in the mouth. This is followed by profuse sweating, a general relaxation, and loss of consciousness. When the senses return, severe headache is experienced. Where the quantity of the gas is small, headache is alone produced, or in some persons giddiness, with weakness of the limbs. The most severe symptoms generally occur when the workman goes out of the mine into the fresh air. From eleven cases observed by him, Rawitz thinks that there are only two distinct forms of this affection—the one being of a narcotic kind, with predominant depression of the nervous system, pale and cold face, slow and almost imperceptible respiration, and thready pulse; and the other being attended with excitement and with convulsive symptoms, or even with tetanic spasms. Glass-blowers.—M. Diday (' Gaz. Med. de Lyons,' 1862 ; ' Ann. d'Hyg.,' Jan., 1863, p. 225) draws attention to the frequency with which syphilis is transmitted through the buccal fluids in glass-bloM'ers, who succeed one another quickly in blowing through the same pipe. M. Chassagny therefore recommends that each workman should have an intermediate tube, used by himself alone, and passed into the pipe now employed. Millstone-cutters.—M. Laboulbene ('Gaz. Med.,' 1863, xviii, p. 438) describes the condition of the hands in those whose occupation it is to cut or di'ess millstones. Small particles of st^el, detached from the in- struments which they use, enter the backs of their hands, and especially of the left hand. They lodge in the skin, and even penetrate into tiie subcutaneous tissue; and they form a number of blackish, raised points. Their presence gives rise to no pain or inconvenience. Some striking cases are given, which show that they remain for many yeai's. They were recognised in an old man, set. 67, who was a patient in the Hotel Dieu. He was much surprised at being asked whether he had ever worked in this way, and said that he had done so up to the age of twenty-six years, but not since that time. These metallic particles are not found in all those who dress millstones ; but the length of time during which they remain in the skin might render them of great importance in questions of identity. Stonemasons.—Dr. Greenhow ('Lancet,' 1863, p. 262) gives some cases of bronchitis in stone-dressers, stonemasons, and others. He finds the tincture of larch very useful in these cases. Working in compressed air.—An account of the physiological effects of this employment, as observed by M. Bucquoy, is given in the 'Year-book,' 1862, p. 4. Dr. Foley ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, No. 32) and Sandahl (' Schmidt,' 1863, No. ii, p. 172) give a similar description of them. Drs. Bnbington and Cuthbert (' Dub. Quar. Jour.,' hxxii, p. 312) record six cases in which paralytic symptoms occurred in men who were em-461 GLAZED VESSELS. ployecl in malcing the bridge over the Foyle, at Londonderry, and who worked in compressed air. The first is that of a man, aged twenty-eight years, who had worked for four hours under a pressure of twenty-three pounds to the square inch, and in passing into the external air became insensible. He died in twenty-four hours; among the symptoms ob- served were partial paralysis of the face on the right side, strabismus of the right eye, tlie pulse weak and irregular, the inspirations irregular, jerking, twenty-four to forty-four in the minute. Twelve ounces of blood were taken from the arm after the symptoms had persisted for some time; it was then found to be black, viscid, and treacly. No good effects resulted from this venesection. Another case was fatal, with symptoms almost exactly similar. Two other cases terminated in death ; in one of these a semi-comatose state occurred at the commencement, and when this passed off all the parts below the fourth rib were found to be para- lysed ; the loss of power continued ; bed-sores were the immediate cause of the fatal result. The other case resembled this closely. Two men, who recovered, were also affected with symptoms which were very similar in each case. The most important of them were severe pains in the legs and thighs, coldness and numbness of the hands and feet, so that the toes, placed near the fire, became severely burnt without any pain being felt. It is unfortunate that no autopsy was made in any of these cases; in all of them symptoms first arose when the workman was leaving the cylin- ders in which the air is compressed. The pressure under which the men worked varied from twenty-seven to thirty-eight pounds, and in one instance readied forty-three pounds on the square inch. In Sandahl's paper is given an account of institutions for the use of compressed air in the treatment of disease, which have been established at Montpellier, Lyons, and Nice. Tlie pressure is not allowed to exceed one and one fifth to one and two fifths atmospheres. Good results have been obtained, especially in cases of chronic bronchitis and of emphysema. Even in phthisis, palliation of the symptoms has been observed. GLAZED VESSELS. M. Chevallier ('Ann. d'Hyg.,' 1863, p. 280) says that some forms of glazed vessels produce injurious effects, which are surpassed only by those which arise from the use of copper utensils. He quotes two cases of lead colic, caused by gherkins which had been left in a glazed earthen vessel. In other instances symptoms have been produced through grapes which had been left to ferment in such jars, or through cider placed in them. He made a series of experiments with different kinds of pottery, exposing them to the action of acetic acid in the cold, of the same acid assisted by the application of heat, and of nitric acid of the strengths of one fortieth, one thirtieth, and one twentieth. The yellow and brown vessels resisted the action of vinegar in the cold ; one only was acted on by vinegar in the warm. The ordinary green and yellowish pottery of Paris is less safe. The value of these investigations was much dimi- nished by the impossibility of ascertaining the origin of the different spe- cimens examined. M. Chevallier, therefore, recommends aa official inquiry into this subject.UEPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 46a COLOURS. Dr. Guy (' Fifth Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council,' Appendix) gives a long account of the uses and effects of tlie arsenical colours. Dr. llassall ('Lancet,' 1863, p. 294) describes the purposes for which arsenite of copper is used in the arts. He also draws attention to the Brunswick green (a mixture of chromate of lead and Prussian blue), the effects of which on the health are not yet known. FOOD. Mr. Gamgee ('Appendix to Fifth Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council') gives some most important information as to the state of the meat which is eaten in this country. His paper is one which should he read, and which it is impossible to condense into the space at our disposal. In considering the effects produced on human beings by the ingestion of meat, it is important to distinguish between diseased and decom- posed flesh. It is probable that, under certain circumstances, a poison is developed in the carcasses of animals similar to that the effects of which are observed in dissecting-rooms. This poison may have relation to pre- vious disease, and especially to the parturition fever, but it is not certain that this is the case. It is destroyed by the process of putrefaction. The diseases which occur in the animals used for food are divisible into three great groups. The first class consists of the epizootic diseases, including the pleuro- pneumonia of horned cattle, the epizootic aphtha, and the variola ovina. Mr. Simon thinks that it is not at all certain that eating the flesh of ani- mals affected with disease of this kind is immediately injurious to man. If it were, irrefragable proof of it would have presented itself ere tiiis. But it is still an undecided question whether chronig ill effects may not result when such meat forms a considerable part of the food taken. Boils and carbuncles have been very common of late years ; at a convict estabhsh- ment where diseased cattle, and especially those affected with lung-disease, are eaten in large quantities, as many as forty or fifty cases of these affec- tions occur among 1520 convicts in a month. The second class consists of the enzootic (anthracic and anthracoid) diseases. The evidence as to the effects of consumption of the well-cooked flesh of animals which die from these diseases is still imperfect, but there is positive proof that it may endanger human life. In 1840, on a farm in Aberdeenshire, a two-year-old quey was attacked with the quarter- ill, as was supposed. It was at once slauglitered; the flesh appeared to be healthy, except that circumscribed ec'chymosed spots were seen scat- tered over it. The same day part of it was cooked for dinner ; two per- sons who did not partake of it remained well, but ibe nine who ate it were all seized with symptoms of poisoning, suffering from vomiting and diarrhoea, attended wi'th great prostration. Two of them died; the others recovered. In a few days, the two men who slaughtered the cow were attacked with phlegmonous erysipelas of the arm. One of them had a large malignant pustule on one knuckle ; he had cut himself at tliat spot while skinning the cow. In the other case no local cause could be dis-463 POOD. covered. They both ultimately did well. Two swine which, ate the offiil of the cow also died. Animals atfected with diseases belonging to this class are extensively slaughtered; and their flesh is eaten, with the exception of the gangre- nous parts. Tliirdly, there are the parasitic diseases. These affections are probably better known by medical men in this country than those belonging to the other classes. Flesh from animals killed on account of the "staggers" (ccenurus cerebralis) has been known to produce severe symptoms in a family, which, in the case of one child, proved fatal. A country butcher, while skinning and dressing a number of sheep affected with rot (distoma hepaticum), complained greatly of the sickening smell ; the same evening he was attacked by choleraic disease, and the next day he died. Evil effects have been witnessed when human beings have eaten the flesh of sheep slaughtered because affected with the distoma, but this has been attributed to the rapid putrefaction of such meat. The most frequent consequence of eating flesh affected with parasites is, however, the propagation or development of the animal within the human body. This has long been well known to be the case with the cestoid worms ; and recently it has been proved that another parasite, the Trichina spiralis, is capable, when eaten in pork, of producing fatal disease. The symptoms in a case recorded by Prof. Zenker, of Dresden, at first resembled those of typhoid fever. Intense pains in the extremities, with oedematous swelling of the legs, then came on, and death occurred a fortnight after the patient's admission into the hospital. The muscles had a grayish colour and a freckled appearance, and were found to be loaded with trichinae, which lay within the sarcolemma of the primitive fibrils, and were not enclosed in capsules. Four days before she was taken ill, two pigs were slaughtei'ed in the establishment of this girl's master. Some ham and sausage prepared from one of these animals was found to be full of trichinse. She had probably eaten some of the raw meat. The butcher was taken ill about the same time, and was confined to his bed for three weeks, suffering from severe muscular pains, with a semi-paralytic condition. This affection was probably caused by an immigration of trichinae, not extensive enough to cause death. Tlie female trichinae produce young in the human alimentary canal. In the intestinal mucus of the girl who died immense numbers of tiiem, full of well-developed embryos, were found. These worms have the power of resisting influences which destroy other parasites. Meat may also produce poisonous effects in man, in consequence of its being impregnated with metallic or vegetable substances, administered to the animal in large quantities during life. Cases are recorded of this kind, from the ingestion of the flesh of an ox to which two ounces of tartar-emetic had been given. This case is probably exceptional. It is yet uncertain how far the milk from diseased cows is capable of pro- ducing injurious effects. The question is practically confined in this country to the milk of cows affected with epizootic aphtha. It has lieen supposed to produce disorder of the stomach and bowels in infants who are fed with it; but this is doubtful. There is no doubt that the disease itself mayllEi'ORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 464 be transmitted to the human subject tlirough a wound; and, according to Mr. Gamgee, this may also occur through the milk, which acquires contagious properties, apparentlv from the rupture of vesicles on the teats. Milk f rom animals affected with anthrax has been known to pro- duce injurious effects, but not in this country. Milk.—Yogel (Erlangen, 1862) proposes the following simple test for the presence of water in milk. A vessel with flat sides is nearly filled with water, and the milk to be tested is poured in, drop by drop, till a taper, placed at a fixed distance behind the bottle, becomes invisible! It is found that the quantity of pure milk which is required to effect this result, is constant; in proportion to the dilution of the milk with water, the quantity dropped into the vessel will of course increase. Oysters.—Symptoms of poisoning were produced by some oysters at Kochefort, which had been brought from Falmouth, where there .is a copper-mine in close vicinity to their beds. They had a bright vegetable- green tint, and a viscid matter, resembling verdigris, exuded from the lobes of the mantle in many of them. M. Cuzent easily detected copper in them by pouring ammonia over them, when a deep-blue colour showed itself, or by introducing a steel needle into the green parts, and adding a little vinegar. Metallic copper was often deposited in less than a minute. (' Comp. Rend.,' 1863, p. 402.) Bread.—Dv. Pellischek ('Oester. Ztschr. f. Prakt. Heilk.,' 1862; ' Schmidt,' 117, 1863, p. 287) relates an instance of the contamination of some flour with the seeds of the Melampyrum arvense. The flour was not of an unusual colour, but the bread made from it had a peculiar dirty violet hue ; the extractive obtained by the action of lactic or acetic acid on the flour assumed, when evaporated, the same appearance. This reaction is known to occur in a chromogen which is contained in the seeds of the melampyrum, and portions of the seed were detected in the flour. No evil effects followed the eating of this bread; .and if the colour be not objected to, such flour may be used without fear. The fact that tlie seeds of this plant give this tint to bread is mentioned in a book published at Lyons in 1782. Pellischek adds some remarks as to the effects of the intermixture of other seeds with corn. Those of the Agrostemma Githago, and of the Thlaspi arvense, give to bread an ash-gray or blackish hue, and a sharp, bitter taste. They have been said to produce a violet colour, but this is not correct. The Rhinanthus major and minor cause a bluish-black tint, a^ disagreeable sweet taste, and a damp sticky condition of the bread. The Polygonum Fagopyrum, and the trifoliuin arvense, produce a violet-red colour. They are not injurious to the health. Seeds which are of a less innocent kind do not affect the colour of the bread which contains them. The Loliian Temulentiim is well known to produce narcotic symptoms. Their occurrence may, however, be avoided by drying the grain in an oven before it is ground, or by keeping the bread some days. The process of fermentation does not destroy its injurious properties. It may be detected by treating the suspected flour with alcohol. This soon acquires a greenish colour and a disagreeable, astringent taste, if the lolium be present; and on evaporation, a greenish-yellow, resinous substance is left. The seeds of the Bromus secalinus, when present in large quantities, make the bread disagreeable and indiges-FOOD. 465 tible, and give it a blackish colour. Tiiey are said to give rise to headaclie and giddiness, but of tliis Pellischek could not convince hira- seU". Tiiose of the Raphanus Baplianistrum are said to produce rapliania. Among fungi, the following forms are noticed :—Tiie rust {jRtibido or Puccinia rjraminis) gets on to the grain only accidentally, as during thrashing. It is recognised by its transparent cylindrical spores, which are long and pedunculated. If affects the colour of the flour which contains it, but is said not to be injurious to animals. The smut (caries or sitophila) gives a bluish colour to bread, making it also sticky and disagreeable to the taste. It is stated to produce ill effects, but of what kind is not mentioned. The affected grains may be separated from the healthy by sifting, or by winnowing, or by the action of water, for the diseased grains float. The Uredo secjetmi rarely occurs in flour, but it clings to the straw, and is prejudicial to cattle. Living creatures occur only in flour which is quite unfit for use. They are the Acarus farinalis (which generally indicates that; the seeds of some leguminous plants have been mixed with the grain), the Asopia farinalis, the Vibriones Tritici. Such flour is usually damp and musty, and has been kept for a long time in a damp place ; it has a bitter, disagreeable taste, and is injurious to liealth if used for food, and especially when it is whitish or reddish, and has already passed into a state of fermentative decomposition. The adulteration of flour with inorganic substances is besf; detected, as advised by Rodtenbacher, by shaking up the suspected specimen with chloroform. All mineral substances sink to the bottom when the fluid is allowed to stand, while the flour floats on the surface. M. Commaille ('Gaz. Hebd.,' vol. x, 1863, p. 4) investigated the nature of a thick layer of a substance which had a red colour, and was found covering the surface of some bread. Hg found it to consist of three fungi—the Oidium aurantiacum, the Penicillum sitopJiilium, and (probably) the P. roseum. He succeeded in transferring the fungi from the bread on which they were found to some which was unaflected, and also to starch, milk, and gelatine. Similar red fungi had been observed in Paris in 1842, and, to prevent their occurrence, it is recommended that some salt should be used in making the bread, and that the quantity of water employed should be diminished. Suspected flour should also be mixed with flour of good quality, and should not be used alone. MM. Manoury and Salmon ('Ann. d'Hyg./ 1863, p. 215) have re- cently traced an epidemic of colic in certain communes of France to the contamination of the flour used in the district with lead. This metal was found in large quantity in the depressions on the surface of the millstones in one particular mill. Cider.—M. Iloussard ('Bull, de I'Acad. de Med.,' xxviii, 1862) dr.aws attention to a disorder produced by the excessive use of this beverage. The symptoms are those of ordinary colic; there is little fever; the abdo- men is slightly tender, but not hard, nor much distended. This affection is caused especially by drinking old cider, which has been kept two or three years, and contains more malic and acetic acids than fresh c;der. Saline purgatives and castor oil are the best remedies. Should their action be prevented by incessant vomiting, castor oil is to be sub- 304-66 UEPOET ON PUBLIC HEALTH. stituted for tliem. Ten centigrammes (gr. is«) nre to be made into eight pills, nnd one of these is to be given every iialf hour till a purgative effect 18 produced. After recovery, cider must be ingested in small quantities only, or diluted with water, or wine should be drunk in its place. Vamlle ice.—VvoL Schroff ('Wien. Med. Wchnbl.,' xix, :j2, 1863 ; 'Schmidt,' XI, p. 182) reports a number of cases of disease, attended with vomiting, and with almost choleraic symptoms, and apparently caused by eating a sort of vanille ice. There are three ways in which it is possible that these effects may have been produced :—(i) The vanilla fruits are often coated over with the oil of the Anacardium oecidentale. This oil is innocent if pure, but it often contains a juice which is found in cavities in the shell of the plant, and which has irritant and vesicant properties. Schroflf generated by means of it an inflammatory affection of three weeks' dura- tion on his own arm. _ Experiments made with this impure oil on rabbits appear to show that it is capable of producing the symptoms observed. (2) In the vanilla fruits are packets of crystalline needles, which occupy the parenchymatous structure of the middle substance. They are very large in the fruits used for making ices ; they are said by Soubeiran to have urticating properties. (3) It has been supposed that, under certain unknown circumstances, a poisonous fatty acid may be formed; but there was no probability that this is the cause of the symptoms produced by the vanille ice. VACCINATION. Dr. v. Bulmerincq, kais. Russ. General-Major, has published the results of observations made by himself, as to the relative advantages of the methods of vaccination practised in Russia, Austria, Germany, England, and France. He carried on his investigations during four years of travel. An account of them is given in Canstatt (1863, S. A., p. 44). He finds that the legal provisions for vaccination in the larger states are in many respects antiquated, and he thinks that the arrangements made in Bavaria are superior to those of all other countries. In that kingdom there is a constant co-operation of the vaccinating medical men ■with the local and higher authorities. Vaccination is compulsory, and "retro-vaccine lymph," that is to say, lymph transferred from man to the cow, is used. The results obtained in Bavaria are very satisfactory. In twenty-one years (from 1840 to i860), only 8606 persons died of variola in that state, and of these, 3.532 were children under one year of age, and 1162 were between one and five years old. It may be assumed that these were not vaccinated, and therefore they may be deducted, as they are not instances of defective protection, v. Bulmerincq recommends compul- sory revaccination of the whole population, a measure which has been found so successful when applied to the militia of several German states. He gives some well-authenticated instances in which vaccination produced injurious effects on the health of the infant vaccinated. These conse- quences were, however, caused by the ignorance or carelessness of the medical man, and not by the operation itself. Vaccination should, there- fore, he taught in a methodical way at a central vaccine institution. Foundling hospitals should never be used, as at Vienna, as the centres from which lymph is obtained. There is no security that illegitimate467 VACCMATION. children may not be the bearers of some latent poison. The offspring of healthy married persons should alone be used to maintain the supply of lymph. Up to the year 1852 vaccine matter for Venetia and the adjacent provinces was obtained from London ('Giorn. Venet. d. Scien. Med.;' 'Canstatt,' loc. cit.), but in that year the vaccinations altogether failed, and it was therefore resolved to keep up a constant supply of lymph in the country itself. Each year five or six healthy young cows are nocu- lated with lymph taken from the arm of an infant on the eighth day after vaccination. It is introduced by a needle or lancet into the teats and surrounding parts, as well as into the neighbourhood of the vulva and anus. The position of the parts inoculated is noted, and after four or five days their condition is observed by a committee appointed for the purpose, and the day of opening the pustules is determined on. It is usually the seventh, or, at latest, the eighth day. The lymph is taken directly from the pustule into capillary tubes, whicli are distributed over the whole country. Up to the present time vaccination of children with this lymph has never failed. If the inoculation in the cow does not succeed, it is repeated two or three times till a good pustule is obtained. Goldoni, who suggested these arrangements, also proposed the imposition of a fine to be paid by parents and guardians who omit to have their children vaccinated within the first six months of their life. He also recommends revaccina- tion every ten years, as the most likely plan to eradicate smallpox. Dr. Vleminex draws the following conclusions from 2000 revaccina- tions performed with great care. (' Gaz. Hebd.', p. 377). (i) Revaccination in persons already well vaccinated produces very little effect. (2) It is more likely to succeed in proportion to the length of time which has elapsed since vaccination was performed, or since an attack of smallpox occurred. (3) Itis generally useless up to the twenty- fifth year. Between the twenty-fifth and the thirty-fifth year it succeeds in a small number of cases. (4) After the thirty.fifth year it is in most instances necessary to ensure protection from variola. (5) When revacci- nation is unsuccessful, the susceptibility to it may return at a later period j it may therefore be tried a second time. Angenstein ('Casper,' xxi; 'Canstatt,' S. A., p. 44) has during the last ten years revaccinated 10,682 prisoners in Cologne, Those who had been operated on uniformly escaped variola, though it was several times intro- duced by new prisoners, and spread among the officers who were not revaccinated, and among those prisoners who had recently been admitted. M. Bouley ('Un.Med.,' 79, 1863) relates the following extraordinary oc- currence :—A horse was affected with stomatitis. The fluid from its mouth was inoculated into the dugs of a cow, and produced there a pustule resembling the cow-pox. From this an infant, aged eleven months, was inoculated with the cow-pox, and in fifteen of the pupils at the the school at Alfort pustules, such as occur in the vaccinella of Rayer, were produced by the introduction into their bodies of fluid from the same cow. Another horse was also inoculated from the cow, on a white spot of its skin ; at the end of ten days, some vaccinal pustules developed them- selves. The account of the method in which the fluid was obtained from the horse's mouth in the first instance is not very satisfactory. On theEEPOllT ON PUBLIC HKALTlf. 468 inner surface of llie lips were some bodies •wliicli resembled vesicles; but on pricking them no fluid exuded. The Inncet was therefore introduced into the mucous membrane. A drop of blood appeared, and afterwards some serum.; this was taken up by the lancet, and was the starling-point of tliis remarkable chain of effects. A case bearing upon the question whether syphilis can be transmitted by vaccination occurred in tlie Hotel Dieu, in September, 1862. A girl under treatment for catarrhal metritis, with granular ulceration of the OS uteri, M'as vaccinated in the arm from a child apparently healthy, and born in tlie hospital. Four children were vaccinated at the same time from the same source. Tliey experienced no ill effects; in the girl the punctures became slightly inflamed, but in five days they disappeared. Twenty-three days after the vaccination she returned to the hospital. Two erythematous pustules existed on the seat of two of the punctures on the left arm. These passed into rupial ulcers ; the glands of the axilla and neck became indurated, and at last a roseola of indubitably syphilitic nature made its appearance. Ricord, who was consulted on this case, declared that it was impossible to affirm what was the source of the contagion ('Gaz. Med.,' No. i, p. i, 1863). Clatter relates the following case (' Oest. Ztschrft. f. prakt. Heilk.,' viii, 4; Canstatt, vii, 69, 1863) :—A midwife got an unhealthy sore on her forearm while assisting in the confinement of a woman who was affected with syphilis. She continued to nurse her little grandchild, and to carry it in her arms. The child, apparently healthy, was vaccinated, and most of the children in the place were inoculated with lymph taken from it. lu these infants the pustules passed into spreading ulcers ; affec- tions of the mouth and condylomata about the anus also showed them- selves. Fissures appeared on the nipples of the mothers who suckled their children, and the affection reached even their husbands. (There is, however, no evidence that this was anything mdre thcan a case of inocula- tion of primary syphilis from the arm of the first child, which was exposed to direct contact with this poison.) Dr. Bohn gives a useful survey of all that has been observed on the subject in 'Schmidt's Jahrbuch"' (1863, x, p. 97). He concludes that vaccino-syphilitic inoculation is a fact, and he adopts the theory of Viennois, that the source of the syphilitic contagion is to be looked for in blood introduced with the lymph at the time of vaccination.INDEX. Abdomen, authors on, 286 — cases of foreign bodies within (Poland), 285 — pulsating and aneurismal tumours of (Ilal)ershon), 135 Abortion, report on (Storer, Hegar, Dun- can), 359 — produced bv tents of laminaria digitata (Pritchard),'3G0 Abscess, pelvic, in non-puerperal state (McCliiitock), 385 Absorption of fat (V. Recklinghausen), 15 Accommodation and refraction, authors on, 254 Acne, on (Von Veiel), 176^' — furuncles, and anthrax, relation of to febrile dyscrasia (Poor), 53 Aconitine, use of, as an anodyne (Jones), 441 Adams, J., operation for abscess of blad- der, 313 Adams, S., case of frostbite, with ulceration of duodenum, 188 Adams, W., on lateral curvature of the spine, 223 Adelmann, G. F. B., on the surgical patho- logy of the arteries, 209 — mechanical obstruction of intestines, 293 — removal of foreign bodies from bowels, 286 Age, influence of, on acuteness of vision (M. Ilaan), 242 Air, condensed, effects of on the human ~ organism (Sandahl), 156 — introduction of, into veins (Ore), 177 Aitken, W., pulmonary lesions associated with syphilis, 209 Aix la Chapelle, sulpliurous thermfc of, in syphilis (lleumoni), 65 Aliers, physiological action of the princi- ples contained in opium, 430 Albers, J. F. II., on spermatorrhoea, 302 Albuminous substances, digestion of (Thiry and Mcissncr), 12 Albuminous urine, the, which follows in- terruption of the blood-slream (Over- beck), 23 Albuminuria, on (Stokvis), 1765 Alcohol, action of, in inflammation (Beale), 36 — nervous disorders from, use of ammonia in (Piorry), 93 Aletris farinosa, use of, 441 Alkalies and alkaline earths, effects of, 407 Allarton, G., modern median lithotomy, 318 Alopecia, on (Von Veiel), 176A Amaurosis, on (Von Grafe), 259 American partridge, poisoning by flesh of, 436 Ammonia contents of blood, urine, and expired air (Thiry), 11 — in the blood, as cause of uraemic poison- ing (Stokvis, Petroff), 176A-e — carbonate, effects of, on animals, 407 — oxalate, poisonous action of (Onsum), 409 Ammoniffi, spirit, aromat., adulterations of, 435 Amnion, functions of (McClintock), 368 Amniotic bands, on (Braun), 345 Amputation, authors on, 234 — of leg, method of (Smith, D. P.), 234 — indications for, m military surgery (Swinburne), 235 — in gunshot fractures of leg or thigh (llodgen), 236 AiiiEmia, idiopathic (Habershon), 122 Anajinic protrusion of eyeball, pulsations and palpitations (Laycock), 107-8 — sphacelus (Myrtle), 121 Ancelet, E., dislocations of the sternum, 233 Anchvlosis, true and false (Malgaigne), 325 Aneurism, authors on, 209 — arterio-venous, operation, fatal (Nela- ton, Broca), 209 — of the aorta pressing on the siii)cr!or cava (Osborn), 132470 INDEX. Aneurism abdominal, spontaneous cure of, in a female (Ilaldane), 132 — of chest, diagnosis of, from tumours (Cejka), 133 — of coeliac axis, case of (Concato), 135 — substernal, its relation to disease of the heart (Douglas), 134 — do. clinical illustrations of its diagnosis (Douglas), 134 — popliteal, cured by combined flexion and compression, 209 — of walls of left ventricle (Wales), 126 — on the successful use of pot. iodidum in (Roberts), 132 Aneurismal and pulsating tumours of the abdomen (Habershon), 135 Angenstein, on revaccination at Cologne, 467 Angina pectoris, epidemic (Gelineau), 122 Aniline,'properties of (Letheby), 432 — colours, poisoning in manufacture of (Charvet), 434 — spectrum of, compared with that of blood (Valentin), 446 Animal poisons and remedies, report on, 436 Animation, suspended, researches on the treatment of, 144 Annandale, excision of the finger-joints, 324 Anstie, cod-liver oil in convulsive diseases, 94 — poisoning by three grains of morphia per rectum, 431 Antimony, effects of, on animals (Pecho- lier), 411 Aorta, case of complete obliteration of (Scheiber), 131 — on obliteration of, at the point of entrance of the duct. Botalii (Duchek), 132 Aphonia, on functional (Mackenzie), 150 — treatment of, from chronic laryngitis (Mascarel), 153 Arlt, causes of failure in extraction of the lens, 255 — on glaucoma, 262 — congenital coloboma of upper eyelid, 246 Arms, liberation of the, in abnormal labours, 364 Arnold, E., use of opium in the shock and reaction of surgical injuries, 182 Arsenic, poisoning by (Keber), 409 — do. (Casper, Koffler), 410 — detection of (Zenger, Odling), 410 — purification of copper from (Millon, Commailc), 411 Arsenic in rivers (Davy), 411 Arrachart, obliteration of urethra, 313 Artemisia absinthium, poisoning by, re- covery (Smith), 422 Arteries, authors on, 209 Asclepias tuberosa, use of, 441 Asschenfeldt, F., case of recovery from tetanus, 193 Asthenopia, muscular (Von Grafe), 253 Asthma, on (Sanderson, J. B.), 156 — extremely severe, relieved by alcoholic stimulants (Salter), 157 — use of datura tatula in (McVeagh), 419 Astragalo-calcaneal joint, disease of, from injury (Coe), 318 Ataxic locomotrice progressive. See Para- lysis, general progressive. Atropine, poisoning by, recovery (Behier), 418 — do. in an ointment, fatal (Ploss), 419 — mode of obtaining (Proctor), 419 Attfield, on solutions of akaloids in oil, 442 Aural haematomata, report on the occur- rence of in the insane, 118 Babington, paralysis caused by working under compressed air, 88 Babington and Cuthbert, paralysis, fatal, from compressed air, 460 Bader, C, on syndectomy, 254 Baptisia tinctoria, use of, 441 Barnes, R., amputation of cervix uteri, 387 — occlusion of uterus and vagina, cases, 386 — fibrous'tumour of uterus obstructing labour, 363 — case of tumour of vagina, 395 — premature labour in obstinate vomit- ing, 376 — modification of short straight forceps, 378 — fallacies of the statistical method in medicine, 176^' Bartscher and Liicke, on blue pus, 189 Barwell, R., lectures on disease of the hip- joint, 225 — evils attending tenotomy, &c., 330 — new radical cure of umbilical hernia, 293 Baryta, salts of, mode of death from (Onsum), 408 Bauchet, L. J., hypertrophy of the parotid, 279 Bauer, L., recto-vesical operation for stone, 318 Beale, L., action of alcohol in inflamma- tion, 36 Bcale, L., on counter-irritation, 36 Beaumont, W. R., new iris forceps, 254471 INDEX. Becourt and Chevallier, effects of manu- facture of bichromate of potass, 457 Bedall, active principle of brayera, 425 Beer, incision of leeches while sucking, 437 Begbie, J. W., on vascular bronchocele and exophtiialinos, 144 — case of exophthalmos, bronchocele and heart affection, sudden, 248 — on the diagnostic value of an accentuated cardiac second sound, 127 Behier, case of poisoning by atropine, re- covery, 418 Beigel and MenscbeU, on malignant car- buncle, 57 Bell, J., scapulo-huraoral luxations, 233 Belladonna, poisoning by (Hayden, Behier, McNamara), 418 — action of, on pupil (Hayden), 418 Benedict, on quasi-paralytic disorders of motility, without proper paralysis, 86 Benedikt, electrical examination of the nervous system for diagnostic purposes, 97 Bennett, J. R., ulceration of palate and fances, 275 Berend, H. W., wound of posterior tibial in division of tendo Achillis, 336 Berg, conditions for Ctesarean section, 452 Berger, treatment of dysentery, 176a Bernard, dependence of the oculo-pupillary and vascular phenomena, following sec- tion of the sympathetic, on distinct nerves, 30 Bernutz and Goupil, clinique on diseases of women, 338 Bernatzik, properties of jalap, 420 Bertherand, ligature of carotid for erectile tumour of scalp, 214 Berthier, on the treatment of chronic diaiThoea in the insane, 114 Betz, on the blood-stream in the liver, 17 Bezold, v., new motor nervous system of the heart, 18 Bickersteth, axillary aneurism treated by opening the sac, 210 Bidie, G. on morbus pedis entophyticus, 324 Biederlack, on counter-extension in fracture of femur, 223 Biermer, A., paracentesis in traumatic pneumothorax, 284 — on pneumothorax, 168 Biermer, 0., on syphilitic disease of the ' spleen, 209 Bigg, II. H., on spinal curvature, 222 Bile, destinatiun of, in the intestine (Hoppe Seyler), 17 Bile, influence of, on the action of the heart, 17 Billroth, R., extraction of a needle from abdomen, 286 — extraction of piece of wood from arm, 325 Billroth, T., case of meningocele 8puria,240 — dilatation of female urethra, 307 Birkbeck, treatment of rheumatic fever, 62 Births, plural, occurring with placenta praevia, 363 Bismuth, solution of, in gastric disease (Schacht), 414 — separation of arsenic from (Schacht),414 Bitot,a conjunctival affection accompanying hemeralopia, 267 Bladder, diseases of, authors on, 306, 313 — hair-pin in the, of a girl (Hilton), 306 do. do. (Billroth), 307 — distension of, in labour (Earle), 373 — puncture of, errors in (Nelaton), 290 Blair, deformity of coccyx causing recto- vaginal fistula, 362 Blanchet, catheterism of the duodenum,286 — passage of sound through the pylorus, 176 Blessig, on retinal haemorrhage, 267 Blood, experiments on (Rollett), 2 — corpuscles, influence of magenta and tannin on (Roberts), 2 — coagulation of (Lister), 10 — do. (Schmidt), 8 — electricity of, in living animals (Scou- tetten), 24 — transfusion of (Panum), 11 — ammonia contents of (Thiry), 11 — stream in the liver (Betz), 17 — stains, tests for (Van l3een, Liraan), 443-4 — do. age of (Pfaff), 445 — do. spectrum of (Hoppe), 445 — do. spectroscope in (Valentin), 446 — do. value of crystallization test (Erdmann), 446 Blot, slowness of pulse in the puerperal state, 399 Bockel, E., removal of cancer of floor of mouth, 275 Bodenheimer, malformations of rectum and anus, 338 Bohn, inoculation of syphilis in vaccina- tion, 468 Boke, on the pathological anatomy of the ear, 272 Bone, artificial production of (Buckholz), 5 — transplantation of, report on, 185 — diseases of, 214 — diffuse spontaneous osteo-myelitis (Demine), 214 — tumours of, authors on, 222472 INDEX. Bone, syphilis of (Wilks), 204 Bosia, intussuscei'lion in infants, cure by catlieleiisni, 297 Bossi, puerperal convulsions, 395 Boiicliut, on iliscases of infants, 338 — on chronic congestion of the lungs simulating early phthisis, 1C3 — on the contugiousness of nervous diseases, 93 — local application of tinct. iodinii in nenralgia, 87 — Intlrothorax and rheumatism treated with veratria and opium, 59 ]3oiilogne, operation for elephantiasis of the labia, 306 Bouley, vaccine matter from stomatitis in a horse, 467 Bourcart, position of sigmoid flexure in infancy, 298 Bourgeois, nomenclature of malignant pustule, 193 Bonrguet, on the radical cure of stricture, 313 Bouvier, on white swellings, 225 — on the immovable bandage in fracture, 224 Bovvditch, H. J., on paracentesis thoracis, 165, 281 Bowen, on prevention of pitting in small- pox, 50 Boys de Loury, elephantiasis of vulva, 306 Bradford, peculiar case of inguinal hernia, 293 — excision of cs calcis, cuboid, &c., 325 Brain, abscess in (Meynert), 22 — do. with thrombosis (Lance- reaux), 143 — capillaries of, alterations produced by age in the, and their relation to senile ramoUissement (Laborde), 92 — cysticerc! of (firiesinger), 94 — do. (Ferber), 95 — inflammation of, from otitis, without caries (Grnlier), 87 — pathology of crura cerebri, contribution tj (Weber), 90 — of melancholic patient, cavity and de- generation in (Heschl), 111 — softness of, from embolism, report on, 139 — do. do. thrombosis, 142 — and spinal cord,-histology of gray de- generation in, 93 — and nerves, syphilis of (Wilks), 203 — and nervous system, lectures on certain diseases of (Raddiffe), 69 Braun, G., labour obstructed by pelvic tumours, 362 — on amniotic bands, 345 — transfusion of blood in anfcmia, 213 Brann, G., transfusion of blood in uterine hiemorrhage, 372 — manual of diseases of women, 337 Brayera anlheliuiutica, active principle of (liedall), 425 Bread, contamination of, by poisonous seeds (Pellischek), 464 — do. do. by fungi (Pellis- chek and Commailc), 465 — do. do. by inorganic sub- stances (Manoury), 465 Breisky, case of retro-peritoneal hernia, 297 Brenner, use of constant galvanic current to very atrophied muscles, 120 Breslau, Ctesarean section with osteo- malacic ))elvis, 383 Brian, on the diagnosis and nature of cer- tain chronic pulmonary affections, 164 Bricheteau, epidemic of chorea, 101 Briddon, removal of necrosed cartilage from larynx, 280 Brinton, W., anomalous intussusception, 297 Bristowe, effects of lucifer-match manu- facture, 459 Broca, P., arterio-venous aneurism, opera- tion, fatal, 209 — extraordinary case of harelip, 275 — transmission of svphilis by vaccination, 208 Brodhurst, B., treatment of spinal curva- ture, (Sic, 334 Bronchi (and trachea), svphilis of (Wilks), 202 Bronchitis, use of expectorants in (Easton), 157 Bronchocele, vascular, &c. (Laycock, Beg- bie), 108, 144, 246, 248 — surgical treatment of (Klein), 279 Brown, B., on ovarian dropsy, 338 —. statistics of ovariotomy, 391 Brown, W., villous cancer of bladder, 313 Brown-Sequard, paralysis, forms and treat- ment of, 96 — on trephining in fracture of spine, 225 Briicke, molecular motion in animal cells, 2 Bruneau, fibrous tumours of pelvis, 337 Bruns, B., on dislocations, 233 — V. von, first extirpation of a laryngeal polypus, 281 Bryant, malformations and diseases of ieetum, 297-8 — ojieration for foreign bodies in larynx, 279 — operation for laceration of perinseum, 375 — surgical diseases of children, 339 — statistics of operaticm fur harelip, 275 — statistics of ovariotomy, 391473 INDEX. Bryant, T., treatment of clu1)-foot, 323 — clinical rcj)ort on tiimonrs, 214 Buchanan, on recent typhus in Lanca- shire, 49 Buck, G., extension apparatus for frac- tured femur, 223 Buckholz, artificial production of hone, 5 liucquov, case of poisoning hv pliosphorus, 404 Budd, G., nitric acid in syphilitic enlarge- ment of liver and spleen, 176d, 209 Budd, W., on malignant pustule, 193 — on the occurrence of malignant pustule in England, with numerous futal cases, 58 Bulmerincq, V., methods of vaccination, 466 Bumstead, F. J., on astigmatism, 254 Burns, a|)pearances on bodies of six chil- dren (Buzzard), 448 — effect of, on bones (Maschka), 448 — deformities from, and nature of the cicatrices (James), 189 Burow, A., a new optometer, 254 — simplified operation for tracheotomv, 278 Busch, W., artificial leg, 238 — rare case of inguinal hernia, 293 — on contractions of the hip and knee, 225 — reduction of dislocations, 225 — simple method of changing catheter in wounds of urethra, 313 Butcher, ligature of femoral artery in elephantiasis, 209 Buzzard, appearances in six children killed by fire, 448 Cadge, W., on traumatic gangrene, 193 Caesarean section, conditions of (Berg), 452 — on fifteen cases of (Winckel), 382 — authors on, 383 Calabar bean, properties of (Fraser, Robert- son, Hart), 425 — authors on, 255 Calcareous metastasis, on (Schott), 36 Callender, G. W., anatomy of femoral rup- ture, 293 Calvert, G., properties of carbolic acid, 432 Cameron, J. C, treatment of abscess of the liver, 286, \76d — treatment of suppurative hepatitis, ]76rf Canierer, on dironic spinal meningitis and myelitis, 81 Campbell, G. \V., ligature of the gluteal artery for traumatic aneurism, 209 Cancer of lip, etiology of (Lortet), 272 Cannabis Indica, trismus successfully treated liy (Fraser), 93 Cannifl', W., resection of ankle, 234 Cantani, A., treatment of putrid infection witli sulphite of magnesia, 193 Caiitharidine, detection of (Ticliborne), 436 Canton, on the arcus senilis, 240 Caoutcliouc souffle, on (Delpech), 458 Carbolic acid, properties of (Calvert), 432 Carbon, sulphide of, effects of, in manufac- tures (Delpech), 453 Carbonic acid, place of formation of, in the organism (Sachs), 22 Carbuncle, on (Pritchard), 209 Cardiac murmurs not casilv explicable (Skoda), 131 — second sound, accentuated, diagnostic value of (Begbie), 127 Caries, on the use of liqueur de Villate in (Notta), 222 Carmichael, on morbid impulse, 114 Carter, H. V., fungus disease of foot in India, 324 — on mycetoma, 324 — on leprosy in India, 176m Carter, R. B., binocular ophthalmoscopy, 243 Casper, poisoning by arsenic, 410 — effects of injuries on the skulls of infants, 453 — on priority of cause of death, 413 — on sodomy, 443 Catalepsy, case of (Jones), 100 — at Billingsliausen, endemic (Vogt), 100 Cataract, authors on, 255 Cattle, diseases of (Simon), 462 Caustics, on the use of (Schuh), 183 Cejka, on the diagnosis between aneu- risms and tumours, 133 Cells, molecular motion in (Br'iicke), 2 — new reforms in the doctrine of (Reichert), 1 Ccphalotripsy (Pajot), 383 Cerasus Virginiaiia, use of (Bentley), 440 Cervix uteri, actual cautery of (Jobert), 387 — amputation of (Rarnes), 387 Chambers, treatment of continued fever, 49 — statistics of the treatment of rheumatic fever, 62 — on the formation of mucus and pus, 33 Chambers, 'placenta prasvia, with twins, 363 Chance, E. J., on bodily deformities, 335 Changes of various bodies externally to the body agreeing with those which take place within it (Van Deen), 29474 INDEX. Chapman, on a new method of treating disease liy controlling the circulation of the blood in different parts of the body, 102 — functional diseases of women, 338 Chap|)lain, on liinihar hernia, 293 Cliariial, C, arterio-venous aneurism of the ell)ow, 210 Chassagne, intermittent fever, ceasing on eruption of herpes and furuncles, 54 Charvet, poisoning in manufacture of ani- line colours, 434 Chassaignac, case of aneurism cured by digital compression, 210 — dislocation of hand backwards, 233 Chest, authors on, 284 — paracentesis of (Bowditch), 281 — dimensions of, in pulmonary phthisis (Gintrac), 161 Chevallier, A., on disinfectants, 179 Chevallier, injurious effects from glazed vessels, 461 Chicovne, radical cure of umbilical hernia, 293 Children, diseases of, authors on, 338 Chinese wars, medical results of recent (Nelson), 176a Chleborad, peculiar suffocation of newly born infant, 455 Chloroform, mode of death from (Richard- son), 145 — subcutaneous injection of morphia before recovery from (Paget), 182 Chloroformic anodyne, poisoning by (Har- ley), 434 Chlorosis, dilatation of the heart in (Stark), 126 Cholera, on the treatment of (Donaldson), 176 — haemorrhage, exhaustion, &c., haemosta- tic treatment in (bv tourniquet) (Wise), 54 Cholesterine and seroline as secretions (Salisbury), 28 Chorea, statistical analysis of cases of (Peacock), 101 — epidemic of (Bricheteau), 101 — its relation to valvular disease of the heart, and its treatment (Kirkes), 101 Choroid, atrophic conditions of (Knapp), 245 Churchill, on diseases of women, 338 Cicatrices (Panas and James), 189 Cider, effects of abuse of (Houssard), 465 Cinchona alkaloids, sources and prepara- tion of, 422 Circulation, organs of, diseases, in Prof. Jaksch's clinic (Kaulich), 127 — method of treating disease by control- ling (Chapman), 102 Circulatory system, diseases of, 121 Civiale, statistics of lithotomy, 318 — lectures on lithotrity, 318 Clarke, AV. M., on excision of knee, 234 Clay, on ovariotomy, 391 — extirpation of uterus and ovaries, 393 Clemens, A., on siauimeriiig, 275 Clemens, T., on spermatorrhoea and onan- ism, 299 Clendinning, G., cases of placenta praevia, 370 Clergyman's sore throat (Lewin), 151 Clouston, tuberculosis and insanity, 110 Club-foot, etiology of (Volckmann), 321 — treatment of (Brvant), 323 — do. (Ba'rwell), 330 Cobweb, treatment of fever in India by (Donaldson), 54 Coccius, A., on glaucoma, 262 Coccvx, deformity of, complicating labour (B'lair), 362 Cockle, on aneurismal tumours involving the neck, 133 Cod-liver oil in convulsive diseases (Anstie), 94 Coe, R. W., disease of astragalo-calcaneal joint from injury, 318 Colcliicum wine, poisoning bv (Warncke), 417 Colic pains, cause of (Traube), 175 Collas, A., endemic degeneration of bones of foot, 324 Collis, H., on gonorrhcea, 195 • Colles, radical cure of hernia, 293 Colliers, carbonaceous disease of (Kuborn), 459 Collis, M. H., on syphilis, 208 Collis, use of chloroform in hthotrity, 315 Colours, arsenical, and others (Guy, Has- sall), 462 Coloured ring in glaucoma (Donders), 257 Comuiaile, fungi in bread, 465 Compressed air, paralysis caused by work- ing under (Babington, Cuibbert), 88, 460 — effects of, on the human organism (Sandahl), 156 — use of, in disease (Sandahl), 461 Concato, case of aneurism of the coeliac axis, 135 Conjunctiva and cornea, authors on, 254 Consonance, on Skoda's doctrine of (Schrant), 165 Constans, account of an epidemic of hysterical demonomania, 115 Contagiousness of nervous diseases (Bouclmt), 93 Contractions of the muscles of the arm (Zuradelli), 118 Convulsion, nature of (Radcliffe), 77475 INDEX. Convulsions, puerperal (Boss), Bams- botham), 395 Convulsive diseases, cod-liver oil in (Anstie), 94 Convolvulaceae, report on (jalap,scammony), (Bernatzik), 420 Cooke, L. R., simultaneous uterine and extra-uterine pregnancy, 353 Copaiva, researches on (Zeissl), 194 Copper, poisoning, recovery, 414 — sulphate of, prepared as caustic (Llovet), 414 Cornea and conjunctiva, authors on, 254 Cossa, detection of poisons by dialysis, 401 Coulson, E., operation for hernia without opening the sac, 286 Coulson, W. J., operation for adhesion of soft palate to posterior wall, 275 — on obturator hernia, 293 Counter-irritation, on (Beale), 36 Cotton, R. P., use of tinct. ferri muriatis in phthisis, 158 — use of dilute phosphoric acid in phthisis, 162 Crequy, on oesophagotomy, 276 Creasote, paste with collodion for teeth, 432 Cretaceous deposits in the lungs, non- tubercular (Brian), 164 Crichton, on mania ephemera, 114 Critchett, on abscission in staphyloma, 254 Cronyn, J., report of forceps cases in Dublin, 377 Crosby, recent epidemic of smallpox in Edinburgh, 50 Cross, T. W., excision of knee in children, 234 Croup, tracheotomy in (Roser), 277 Crura cerebri, pathology of (Weber), 90 Curling, J. B., diseases of rectum, 299 — on sterility in man, 304, 452 Curtis, pregnancy in a girl ten years of age, 394 Cuthbert, paralysis caused by working under compressed air, 88 Cuthbert and Babington, paralysis, fatal, from compressed air, 460 Cuzent, copper-poisoning through oysters, 464 Cyanosis, cardiac (Stark), 126 Cysticerci of brain, diagnosis of (Griesin- ger), 94 Cytisus laburnum, poisoning by (Popham), 429 Czermak, laryngoscope, and tumours in larynx and nostrils, 281 Dannenberger, on nitrate of silver in ery- sipelas, 189 Dauve, on enchondroma of testis, 306 Datura stramonium, poisoning by (Shortt), 419 — tatula, use of, in asthma (McVeagh), 419 Davies, R., on fractures from gunshot wounds, 223 — on disease of the hip-joint, 225 Davies, radical cure of hernia, 293 Davy, J., arsenic in the Whitbeck stream, &c., 411 Death, mode of, priority of (Casper), 443 — rate of cooling after (Taylor and Wilks), 447 Debout, on congenital umbilical hernia, 293 — mechanical restoration of apparatus of vision, 246 — use of coverings for stumps, 238 — substitutes for the extremities, 325 Decidua, nature of (Duncan), 353 Deformities of foot, new method of curing (Barwell), 330 Degeneration, gray, of brain and cord, his- tology of (Rindfleisch), 93 Delattre, treatise on midwifery, 337 Delirium tremens, diagnosis of (Seller), 98 — opium successful in (Ogle), 98 — traumatic (Roser), 186 Delivery, mechanism of (Laborie), 357 Delore, on congenital union of the fingers, 324 — and Richard, A., case of cirsoid aneu- rism, 214 Delpech, effects of sulphide of carbon in manufactures, 458 Demarquav, removal of cancer of tonsil, 276 — on tracheotomy, 278 — and others, on glycerine in surgery, 183 — and Leconte, on the influence of gases on the reunion of tendons, 188 — tumour of mamma of butyrous appear- ance, 285 Demel, T., excision of the hip, 234 Dementia, senile, difl^erences from general paralysis (Marce), 117 Demeurat, recurrent effects of bite of viper, 437 Demme, on the anatomy and diagnosis of myocarditis, 130 — case of cancroid simulating phlyc- tenular disease, 254 — analysis of Porta's monograph on nacvus, 214 — on diffuse spontaneous osteo-mvelitis, 214 — dislocation of one half of the pelvis. 233 — glossitis and its treatment, 176a, 275 — tubercular disease of testis, 306 Denuce, on badly united fractures, 225 Depaul, on spina bifida, 223476 INDEX. Dcsguiii, erysipelas of fiioe in inteiniilteut fever, 53 Desprfcs, on erysipelas, 189 Dctinold, W., division of the levator for lagO|>iillialiiuis, — on llic relief of ])aiii, 187 — use of towels in ligaturing vessels, 214 Dialysis, detection of poisons by (Harvey, Cossa), 401 Diarrlioea, chronic, in the insane, treatment of (Berthier), 114 Diceiita, J. S. A., on spermatorrhcca, 299 Dicentra forniosa, use of, 440 Dick, on pliymosis, 30G Dickie, retroversion of gravid uteris, 358 Didav, P., natural history of svphilis, 64, 195' — on renewed syphilitic infection, 65 — on tertiary syphilis, 66 — transmission of syphilis among glass- blowers, 460 Digestive system, report on, 169 Digestion of alhuminous substances (Thiry and Meissner), 12 — of stomach (Pavy), 15 Digitalis in the treatment of insanity (Rolicrtsun), 116 Diphtheria, cases of, with paralysis (New- man), 55 — deposit extending to bronchial ramifi- cations (^Stokes), 55 — local applications in, 57 — paralysis in, 55 — report on, in its epidemiological and nosological relations (JafFe), 55 — tracheotomy in, 56 Diphtherial nerve affections, on (Green- how), 104 Discharges, fetid, result of imperfect deli- very (Duncan), 360 Diseases of women, report on, 384 Disinfectants, on (Chevallier and others), 179 Dislocations, 225 — authors on, 233 — resistance of capsule to reduction (Busch), 225 — of the jaw, mechanism of (Maison- neuve), 232 Dittel, nosology of urethral fistula;, 313 — ununited fracture, caused by rubbing ends together, 225 Dolheau, case of very large stone, 318 — on epispadias, 306 — luxation of femur into foramen ovale, 233 Donaldson, cholera, treatment of, 17o — treatment of fever in India by cobweb, 54 Bonders, on astigmatism, 246 Donders, views of, in glaucoma (IlaflT- nians), 255 — pathogenesis of strabismus, 250 Donken, A. S., action of uterus in partu- rition, 355 Donkin, puerperal mania with albuminuria, 396 Dougherty, J. A., on hospital gangrene, 190 Douglas, substernal aneurism, its relation to disease of the heart, 134 — do. clinical illustrations of its diagnosis, 134 Drowning, proofs of (Maschka), 449 — swallowing of mud in (Mayer), 450 — entry of fluids into stomach after death (Aulnoit), 450 — do. in infants, (Liman), 450 — restoration of appearance of body after (Richardson), 451 Duchaussoy, A. P., intestinal obstraction, 294 — do. by biliary calctili, 297 Duchek, clinical lecture on diseases of the heart, 128 — on obliteration of the aorta at the point of entrance of the duct. Botallii, 132 Duchenne and Bouvier, on flat foot, 324 Duncan, J. F., on syphilitic insanity and epilepsy, 209 Duchesne Duparc, fucus vesiculosus as remedy for obesity, 38 Duguet, ataxie locomotive progressive treated by nitrate of silver, 84 Duncan, M., cervix uteri in eighth month of pregnancy, 350 — state of internal surface of uterus after delivery, 353 — case of extra-uterine pregnancy, 357 — on some results of abortion, 360 Duncan, epilepsy with insanity due to syphilis, 112 Duparcque, on inequality in length of upper limbs in fractures, 224 Duval, on avoiding the testis in hydrocele, 306 Dyskrasia malarica, its relation to arne, furuncles, and anthrax (Poor), 53 Dysentery, treatment of (Bergcr), 176.1 — in recent Chinese wars (Nelson), 17Ca — on tropical (Ewart), 176a Dvsmenorrhoea, division of os and cervix 'in (Greenhalgh), 393 Ear, authors on, 272 — Kramer, on catheterism of, 267 Earle, L., distension of bladder in post- partum htcmorrhage, 373477 INDEX. Earl, L., trcatiueiit of prolapsed funis, 366 Easton, J. II., on the use of expectorants in diseases of the mucous membrane of llie lungs, 157 Eczema, on the diagnosis of (Ilehra), 170/ — report on, at Canstatt (Von Veiel), 176/ Edmunds, case of malignant pustule, 58 Edwards, poisoning by veratrum viride, recovery, 417 Electrical examination of the nervous sys- tem for diagnostic purposes (BenediktJ, 97 — phenomena of muscle and motor nerve (RadclifFe), 69 Elephantiasis, ligature of the femoral ar- tery in (Butcher), 209 — of scrotum, authors on, 306 Ellis, placenta prfevia with twins, 363 Emanuel, fatal snake bite, 437 Embolism, 210 — of the coronary arteries (Panum), 210 — do. pulmonary artery, 210 — do. general circulation, 211 — and thrombosis, report on (Meissner), 136 Emissions, seminal, involuntary (Clemens), 299 — do. (Schulz), 300 Empis, progressive paralysis, partial, of face, 86 Enemus, dangerous injuries from (Passa- vant), 299 Endocarditis, ulcerous (Lancereaux), 129 Ephidrosis, treatment of (Von Veiel), 176^ Ephelides, on (Von Veiel), 170A Epiglottis, position of, in phonation, &c. (Lewin), 151 Epilepbv, nature and treatment of (Rad- clifle), 77 — with insanitv, due to syphilis (Duncan), 112, 209 Epispadias, authors on, 306 Erdmann, case of apparent blood-stains, 446 Erhard, J., clinical otiatry, 272 — physical diagnosis of diseases of ear, 272 Erlenmeyer, use of opium in psychiatrie, 112 Eruption of herpes and furuncles, inter- mittent fever ceasing on (Chassagne), 54 Ervsipelas, on (Desprcs, Dannenberger), 189 — of face in intermittent fever (Desguin), 53 Ether, nitric, adulterations of, 435 Eulenberg, on lateral curvature of the spine, 222 — on orthopedic surgery, 336 Eupatorium purpureum, use of, 441 Eustachian catheter, transmission of syphilis by (Fournie), 208 — tube, catlieterism and sounding of (Kramer), 267 — authors on, 272 Ewart, J., on tropical dysentery, 176S Exanthemata in tlie puerperal state (Simp- son), 396 Excision of joints, 233 — authors on, 233 — of head of femur, mode of extension in (Holt), 233 Exertion, bodily, effect of, upon the or- ganism (Speck), 27 Exiiaustion, Sec, liaemostatic treatment of (Wise), 54 Exophthalmos, vascular bronchocele and (iiegbie), 144 Exophthalmic goitre (Fletcher), 246 — (Laycock), 248 Exostosis of the ethmoid, case of (Maisou- neuve), 222 Expectorants, action of (Gairdner), 44 2 — so-called, use of, in disease of the mucous membrane of the lungs (Eas- ton), 157 Extremities, surgery of, authors on, 325 Eye, surgery of, report on, 240 — authors on, 240, 246 — muscles, of, 248 — syphilis of (Wilks), 203 Eyeballs, protrusion of, termed anaemic, cerebro-spinal origin (Laycock), 107 Eyelids, authors on, 246 Face, phlegmon of skin of, ending in pyemia (Thornau), 176j Fano, hypertrophy of lachrymal gland, 254 — unusual course of an inguinal hernia, 293 Faradization of tongue, &c., for progressive paralysis, case of (Tommasi), 121 Farcy. See Glanders. Fat, absorption of (V. Recklinghausen), 15 — removed by pills of fucus vesiculosus (Duchesne), 38 Fauces, local anaesthesia of, 276 Faye and llebra, on radesyge, 68 Fayrer, on elephantiasis of scrotum, 306 Febrile affections, remarks on (Traube), 33 Fergusson and Johnson, operation for in- • testinal obstruction, 297 Fermentation determined by animalcules, apart from oxygen (Pnstcur), 6 Fever, on the causes of continued (Mur* chison), 47478 INDEX. Fever, continued, as it appeared at St. George's Hospital, May to November, 1862 (Harvey), 48 — do. treatment of, with dilute hydrochloric acid (Chambers), 49 — intermittent, ceasing repeatedly on ap- pearance of eruption (Cliassagiie), 54 — do. erysipelas of face in (Desguin), 53 —malarious, treatment of, by subcutaneous injection of quinine (Moore), 53 — traumatic (Roser), 192 — typhus, report on (Foi ster), 38 — do. absence of chlorides in the urine pa- tliognomonic of (Primavera and Pru- dente), 48 — recent typhus inLancashire (Buchanan), 49 — typhus, recent occurrence of, in Bristol (Martyn), 49 — do. in the Crimea (Cazalas), 39 — do. causes of, 39 — do. complications of, 42 — do. pathology of, 44 — do. relapses in, 43 — do. treatment of, 46 — do. urine in, 42 — in India, treatment of, by cobweb (Donaldson), 54 — yellow, epidemics of, in Bermuda (Smart), 53 Fibrin, on, and the causes of its coagulation (Schmidt), 8 — artificial production of, from albumen (Smee), 11 Finco, cauterization of the ear in sciatica, cases of successful, 99 Firearms, suicide by, modes of (Legouest), 447 Fistula, gastric (Miiller and Witt), 176 Fletcher, on exophthalmic goitre, 109 Fletcher, J. 0., live cases of recovery from exo|)hthalmic goitre, 246 Flint, clinical report on hydro-peritoneum, based on an analysis of forty-six cases, 169 — a contribution toward the natural his- tory of articular rheumatism; thirteen cases treated solely with palliative mea- sures, 58 Flinzer on insane colonies, 117 Flour, contamination of. See Bread. Focke, use of opium in psyctiiatrie, ] 12 Foetal head,measurement of (Turnbull),347 Foetation, extra-uterine. See Pregnancy. Foetus,ascites of, obstructinglabour(Hioks), 368 — do. (Hirsch), 369 Foley, effects of working in compressed air, 460 Follin, case of epispadias, 306 — lessons on examination of the eye, 240 Food, report on, 462 Foot (and hand), diseases of, authors on. 318 Forceps, report of cases in Dublin (Cronyn), 377 — maternal mortality under, 377 — modification of short (Barnes, Gayton), 378 Foreign bodies in larynx, 279 — in abdomen, 285-6 Forensic medicine, report on, 443 Fbrster, A., pathology of congenital syphi- lis, 208 Forster, R., on the limits of the field of vision, and on hemeralopia, 267 Forster, contributions to the pathological anatomy of congenital syphilis, 66 — report on typhus, 38 Fortin, dislocation of femur in young children, 233 Foster and Matthiessen, on narcotine, 429 Foucher, sub-ungual exostosis, 324 — removal of tongue by ecraseur, haemor- rhage, &c., 275 — preparation of proto-iodide of iron, 412 Fournie, E., syphilis communicated by the Eustachian catheter, 208 Fractures, 223 — authors on, 224 — of femur, gunshot, treated conserva- tively (Waters), 223 — conservative treatment of (Peters, Hogden)^ 224 — new splint for (N. Smith), 223 — do. (D. P. Smith), 224 — ununited and badly united, authors on, 225 — of spine (B.-Sequard, Potter), 225 — treatment of compound and commi- nuted (Swinburne), 235 — do. (Hodgen), 236 Fraser, T. R., on the Calabar bean, 255, 426 Fraser, trismus algidus treated by cannabis Indica, 98 Frienian, polypus uteri obstructing labour, 363 Freund, retroflexion of uterus, 388 Friedrich, on degenerative atrophy of the posterior spinal columns, 83 Friericks, T. J., Cassarean section success- ful, gastrotomy, 383 FronmuUer, on the soporific power of lactuca, 98 Frostbite, case of, with ulceration of duo- denum (Adams), 188 Fritz, E., poisoning by lucifer matchesj I 406INDEX. 479 Fucus vesiculosus, as remedy for fat, 38 Fuller, lectures on gout, rheumatism, and sciatica, 59 Fungi, poisoning by (Humbert, Mitchell, Lafargiie), 416 — contamination of flour by (Pellischek, Commaile), 465 Furnaii, on conjunctival tonsure, 254 Funis, prolapsed, treatment of (Halahan), 366 — (Earle), 366 Fiirstenheira, E., the endoscop, 313 Gairdner, action of expectorants, 442 Galvanic currents, effects of, on motor nerves (Radcliffe), 70 Galvanism, effect of, in suspended anima- tion (Richardson), 148 Ganigee, report on the meat consumed in England, 462 — contagion through milk, 464 Gangrene, traumatic (Cadge), 193 Garms, reduction of shoulder, 233 Gases, different, influence of, on healing of divided tendons (Dumarquay and Leeonte), 188 Gastric fistula (Mailer and Witt), 176 Gastrotomy, case of, in rupture of uterus, 383 Gaulke, vertical luxation of patella, 233 Gay, J., on invagination, 297 Gayton, modification of forceps, 378 Geissler, A., report on military ophthalmia, 254 Gelineau, epidemic angina pectoris, 122 Genito-urinary organs, surgery of, 299 Gentian, bitter principle of (Ludwig and Kromeyer), 422 Geranium maculatum, use of, 440 Gibb, G., pertussis, treated with bromide of ammonium, 158 Gillespie, J. D., wire seton in hydrocele, 306 Gintrac, on the dimensions of the chest in pulmonary phthisis, 161 Gintrac, E., on spontaneous hydrophobia, 193 — on hydromeningocele, 240 Giordano, induction of premature labour by arg. nitr., 376 Giraldes, on nsevus. 214 — on stone in children, 318 Girand-Teulon, F., on strabismus and di- plopia, 240 — on auto-oplithalmoscopy, 246 Gitner, epidemic of liemeralopia, 267 Glanders (Savory, Leblanc, Pissling), 193 Glaucoma, 255 — views and experience of Prof. Bonders on (Haffmans), 255 Glaucoma, later experience of (Von Grafe), 257 — authors on, 262 Glazed vessels, injurious effects from (Chevallier), 461 Glass, powdered, poisoning by (Pereles), 401 Glass-blowers, transmission of syphilis to, by tubes (Diday), 460 Glatter, doubtful transmission of syphilis by vaccination, 468 Glossitis and its treatment (Demme), 176a Glycerine, use of, in pharmacy (Turun), 442 — use of, in surgery (Demarquay, Tilt, Bouillon), 183 — adulteration of (Palm), '434 Goitre, exophthalmic, on (Fletcher), 109 — recovery (Fletcher), 246 — on (Laycock), 248 — authors on, 248 Goldoni, vaccination kept up through cows, 467 Goldsmith on bromine in hospital gangrene, 190 Golz, the vagus nerve and the heart, 19 Gonorrhoea, on (Collis), 195 — on the treatment of (Max, Montgomery), 195 — on copaiva in (Zeissl), 194 Gosselin, operation for congenital hydro- cele and hernia, 306 ' — on wedge-shaped fractures, 224 Gouget, epidemic of acute goitre, 279 Gout, rheumatism, rheumatic gout, and sciatica, lectures on (Fuller), 59 Grafe, A. von, on muscular asthenopia, 253 — on the Calabar bean, 255 — on extraction of the lens in marastic eyes, 255 — case of separation of retina, &c., 267 — later experience of glaucoma and iri- dectomy, 257 Grandidier, report on hoemophily, 123 — clinical lecture on neuro-retinitis, 262 Greenlialgli, division of os and cervix in dysmenorrhoea, 393 — case of Caesaiean section, 383 Grcenhowf, on diphtherial nerve affections, 104 — bronchitis in stonemasons, 460 Grenser, manual of midwifery, 337 Griepeukerl, treatment of hooping-cough by ergot of rye, 157 Greisinger, on the diagnosis of cysticerci of the brain, 94 Giitti, R., on the ophthalmoscope, 240 Grube, W., true anchylosis of the lower jaw, 275480 INDEX. Griiber, J., cases of disease of ear, 272 — on pathological states of tlie Eustachian tuljfi, 272 — on inflammation of the brain from otitis without caries, 87 Gruber, W., strangulation of ileum and signidid flexure, 297 — abscess in cavum pra;peritoneale, 28G Gnalla and Gheriui, on curare in hydro- phobia, 193 Gublcr, uterine hasmorrhages in relation to menstruation, 385 Gunshot wounds, treatment of[(Neill), 183 — Tienian's bullet forceps in (Davies), 189 — of chest, ligatures tolimbs in (Detmold), 189 — of knee-joint, is resection advisable in ? (Smith), 189 — report on, at Fort Pitt, during 1860 and 1861 (Longmore), 189 — fractures from, treatment of (Davies), 223 — do. treated conservatively (Waters), 223 Guntz, on syphilitic fever, 208 Gurit, E., statistics of fracture, 224 — trephining in fracture of spine, 225, note Guv, uses and effects of arsenical colours, 462 Gury, on mixtures of sesquichloride of iron, 412 Guyon, malformation of urethra in the male, 313 Haan, J. V. de, influence of age on acute- ness of vision, 242 Haas, H. de, history of bypermetropia, 254 Habershon, idiopathic anremia, 122 — on pulsating and aneurismal tumours of the abdomen, 135 Heematomata, aural, in the insane, report on, 118 Hjemophily, report on (Grandidier), 123 Haemorrhage before, during, or after de- livery, report on, 370 — cerebral, on (Jones), 91 Hsemorrhagc from gunshot wound of hand (Nelaton), 213 — use of towels in ligaturing arteries (Detmold), 214 — post-partum (Lawrence), 342 — capillary, on, in melana:mia (Hesclil), 143 — uterine, in relation to menstruation (Gubler), 385 lIa;morrhagic diathesis, observations, &c., since 1854 (Grandidier), 214 — report on (Grandidier), 123 ria;mostatic treatment of cholpra, haemor- rhage, exhaustion, &c. (Wise), 54 Ilaffmans, J. II. A., expositions of the views of Dondcrs on (;lnucoma, 255 riahn, on dislocations, 233 Haines, decomposition of gray povpder in India, 415 — formation of carb. soda from sea-water, natural, 408 Hal;en, A., on urethroscopy, 313 Halahan, treatment of prolapsed funis, 366 Haldane, sarraceuia purpurea in smallpox, 50 — spontaneous cure of three abdominal aneurisms by calcareous degeneration, 132 Hamilton, F. 11., unreduced dislocation of acromial end of clavicle, 233 — treatise on fractures and dislocations, 223 — hospital gangrene without previous wound, &c., 190 Hamilton, E., aneurism of ulnar artery, &c., 210 Ilanbury, D., on the Cilabar bean, 255 Hancock, H., excision of ankle, 234 Hand and foot, diseases of, authors on, 318 Hanging, remarks on (Maschka), 449 Hardey, retroversion of gravid uterus, 358 Harelip, authors on, 275 Harley, G., on the Calabar bean, 255 — pertussis treated with bromide of atn- nionium,'l58 — poisoning by " chloroformic anodvne," 434 Harper, operation for femoral hernia in woman of ninety-five, 293 Hart, E., use of Calabar bean, 429 Hart, on cysts at the hack of the knee, 214 Harvey, on continued fever in St. George's Hospital, 1862, 48 — detection of poisons by dialysis, 401 Hasner, on posterinr synechia, 254 Hassall, use of arsenite of copper and Brunswick green in the arts, 462 Hay fever, on (Smith, A.), 157 Hayden, effects of belladonna, 418 Haydon, unusual locality of pregnancy, 356 Head, measurement of foetal (TurnbuU), 347 — surgical diseases of, report on, 232 — do. authors on, 240 — tumour of the, discussion on, 240 Heart, diseases of, clinical lectures on (Diichek), 121 — accentuated second sound of, its dia- gnostic value (Beghie), 127INDEX, 4.S1 Heart and vessels, diseases of, in Prof. Jaksche's clinic (Kaulicli), 127 — dilatation of, in chlorosis, disappearing under iron (Stark), 12G — do. producing insufficiency of mitral v.ilve (Luithler), 12G — influence of the hilc on the action of, 17 — new motor nervous svstem of (V. Bezold), 18 — the vagus nerve and the.(Golz), 19 — inflammation of the muscular sub- stance of (Dcnime), 130 — ulcerative inflammation of the valves of, as a cause of pvfeniia (Kirkes), 130 — condition of, in death from asphyxia (Richardson), 145-7 — murmurs in, not easily e.xplicable (Skoda), 131 — rhythmical motion of (Radclifl!"e), 74 — on temporary insufficiency of the valves of the (Skoda), 129 Heat, influence of, on the dead heart (Richardson), 148 Heath, C, on Esmarcli's operation, 275 Hebra, iodine, internal and external, in diseases of the skin, 176e — on the diagnosis of eczema, 176y — and Faye, on ladesyge, 68 Ilecker, C. F., on encysted stones, 318 Meeker, C, case of Cxsarean section, 383 — statistics of labour at Municli, 343 Hectic, connection of with septicojniia (Roser), 193 Heer, case of rupture of uterus, 374 Hegar, A., pathology of human ovum, 380 — removal of polypus uteri, 390 Heginbotham, poisoning by sulphuric acid, 404 HeiUmann, case of Cesarean section, suc- cessful, 383 ITciue, on infintile paralysis, 93 Heller, the stale of the urine in hydro- phol)ia, 97 Ilemcralopia, authors on, 2G7 Hemiplegia, reflex (I'almer), 107 Hcnke, W., cjutraction of the metatarsus, 324 Heurv, 0., new preparations of cinchona, 423 Hepatitis, acute, treatment of (Cameron), Herapath, on arsenic in bismuth, 414 Hermann, A., on tumours, 214 Hernia, diagnosis of (Ilollhouse), 287 — do. (Nivei), 289 — gangrene of bowel in, appearance of (Nc'Iaion), 291 — operation without opening the sac (Coulson), 28G Hernia, strangulated femoral, case of (Ne- kton), 288 — authors on, 292 Her()es chronicus, report on, at Canstatt (Von Vciel), \76ff Herschell, ataxie locomotrice progressive treated Ijy nitrate of silver, 84 Hertz, II., case of pemphigus acutus, 176h Heschl, on capillary hocmorrhages in melanaamia, 143 — hoemoriliagic cavity and osseous de- generation in brain of melancholic patient, 111 Hewitt, G., on diseases of women, 338 — on hydatidiform ovum, 361 — inversions of the uterus, 387 — on transfusion in obstetric practice, 373 He-.vitt, I'. G., on femoral rupture, 293 Ileyfelder, J. F., amputation at shoulder- joint, 238 — resection of the astragalus, 325 Hevmann, F., on auto-ophthalraoscopv, 246 Hiccough, obstinate, with serious symp- toms, cured by quinine (Widal), 104 Hicks, B., labour obstructed by morbid conditions of foetus, 368 — two cases of transfusion, 371 — on combined external and internal ver- sion, 378 — polypus of uterus, removed by wire- rope ecraseur, 390 Iligginson, dislocation and fracture of spine, reduced, 233 — ligature of the external iliac, 209 Ililguet, case of asperniatisra, 304 Hilton, J., disease of bones of foot, 324 — on disease of the sterno clavicular joints, 225 — hair-pin in bladder of a girl, 306 — on onanism and its treatment, 300 lliiiton, J., case of sebaceous tumour of mcml)rana lympani, 272 llip-joiut, authors on the, 225, 233-4-8 — disease, diagnosis of (Malgaigne), 326 Ilirsch, ascites of foetus obstructing labour, 369 Ilirsch, A., on the Madura-foot, 324 Ilirschler, on stillicidium, 254 Hjaltclin, J., on the ei)ideTnic influenzas of Iceland, especially the last one of 18G2, 157 Hoarseness, conditions of larynx in (Lewiu, GerhardL), 152-3 Ilodgcn, J. T., compound fracture of femur, conservative trentuient of, 224 — new splint for gunshot fractures of leg, 225 Iloltnes, T., congenital extroversion of bladder, 313 n482 INDEX. Holt, B., diagnosis and treatment of re- tention of urine, 307 — on imniol)ility of the lower jaw, 275 Ilolthouse, C, diagnosis of hernial and other tumours of groin and scrotum,287 Hooker, acute inversion of uterus, 387 Hooping-cough, practical remarks on (Roger), 158 — treated by bromide of araraoninm (GibI), Harley), 158 — treatment of, by ergot of rye (Griepen- kerl), 157 Iloppe, on the spectrum of blood, 445 Hoppe Seyler, destination of bile in the intestine, 17 Hospital gangrene (North, Weeks, Stan- ford, Dougherty, Goldsraith, Hamilton), 190 lloussard, effects of abuse of cider, 4C5 Houze de I'Aulnoit, entry of fluids into stomach after death, 450 Howard, B., new mode of ligaturing the iutercostals, 209 Howard, account of cinchona bark from India, 422 Hugenbcrger, F., does constitutional syphilis occur only once ? 208 — cases of rupture of uterus, 374 Huguier and others, operation for umbili- cal hernia, 293 Hulke, J. W., cases of abscess and of tumour of the orbit, 253 — six cases of intraocular cancer, 254 Humbert, poisoning by fungus, recoveiy, 416 Hunt, T., diseases of skin in schools, workhouses, and factories, 170/ Hustv, total procidentia of gravid uterus, 3 63 Hutchinson, J., aft'eclions of eye following neuralgia, &c., of fifth nerve, 246 — on inherited syphilis (eye and car), 195 — statistics of ovariotomy, 391 — method of performing do., 392 Hiiter, C, studies on joints of extremities, 325 — on genu valgum, &c., 336 Hiiter, V., liberation of the arms in labours in which the head is born last, 364 Hydatidiform ovum, on the (McClintock, Moorhead, Hewitt), 361 Hyde Salter, clinical lecture on pleurisy, 165 Ilyrirocelc, authors on, 306 Hydrocyanic acid in the treatment of in- sanity (McLeod), 115 Hydro-peritoneum, cUnical report on (Flint), 109 Hydrophobia, on (Gualla and Glierini, Ginlrac, Oppolzer), 193 Hymen, imperforate, case (^Barnes), 380 llypcrmctropia, a cause ofconvergent squint (Bonders), 250 llypocloritcs, the, as disinfectants (Iler- vieux), 181 Hysterical dcmononiania, epidemic of (Constans), 115 Ice, control of circulation by (Chapman), 102 Iceland, epidemic influenzas of (Iljaltelin), 157 Ichthyosis, at Canstatt (Von Veiel), \76ff — sebacea, cases of (Ogle), 176i Impetigo at Canslatt (Von Veiel), 176y Impotence, on (Schulz), 302 — authors on, 304 Impulse, morbid, on (Carmicbael), 114 Inanition, metamorphosis of matter during (Schultzen), 27 India, on leprosy as seen in (Carter), 176m — cinchona bark from (Howard), 422 Infanticide, report on, 453 — condition of funis no proof of (Masch- ka), 455 — effects of injuries to fcetal skulls (Cas- per), 453 — false appearance of poisoning by SO3 (Lusclika), 455 — by compression of nose and lip (Masch- ka), 455 — by siifFocation (Mascarel,Cldeborad),455 Inflammation, pulmonarv, treatment of (Skoda), 163 Influenzas, Epidemic,of Iceland (Hjalkclin), 157 Injection of remedies into deep-seatedparts (Luton), 441 Insane, the, derangements in the sensa- tions of hunger and thirst in, 111 — chronic diarrhoea in, treatment of (Ber- thier), 114 — colonies, on (Flinzer), 117 — report on the occurrence of aural haamatoinata in the, 118 Insanity with epilepsy, due to syphilis (Duncan), 112 — digitalis in the treatment of (Robert- son), 116 — hvdrocvanic acid in the treatment of (McLeod), 115 — use of opium in (Kontny), 112 — do. (Erlenmcyer, Focke), 112 — and tuberculosis (Clouston), 110 Intestine, sound jiasscd into, through pylorus (BInncliet), 1 70 Intestinal obstrnclion (l)ucliaussoy), 294 — mechanical (Adclmann), 293 — authors on, 297INDEX. 488 Isnard, on ataxie loconiotrice progressive, 85 Italy, notes on hospitals in northern (Pea- cock), 176i Iodide of potash, case of atrophic mus- cular paralysis treated by (Taylor), 120 Iodine, use of, in diseases of the skin (Hebra), 176e — externally in smallpox (Piringer), 176e — use of, in osteo-myelitis (Demrae), 21G — as a disinfectant (Reynoso, Hoffmann), 180, 182 Ipecacuanha, experiments with, on animals (Pecholier), 424 — poisonous action of (Pecholier), 412 Iridectomy, Bonders on, 257 — Von Grafe, later experience of, 257 — authors on, 262 Iris, diseases of, authors on, 254 — movements of, influence of movements of respiration on (Bernard), 31 Iron, hydrated sesquioxide of (Leroy), 413 — iodide of quinine and (Smedt), 413 — percliloride of, as a disinfectant (Renault), 181 — proto-iodide of (Fouchet), 412 — sesquichloride of (Gury), 412 Irritants, mechanical, 401 Jacobs, on dentition, 338 Jacobson, J., a new and innocuous opera- tion for cataract, 255 Jackson, J. II., on defects of sight in brain disease, 267 JnfTe, report on diphtheria, 55 Jalap, properties of (Bernatzik), 420 James, J. H., on deformities from burns and the nature of the cicatrices, 189 Jaw, authors on, 240 — acute rheumatic periostitis of lower (Senfileben), 239 ' — dislocations of (Maisonneuve), 232 — immobility of the lower, authors on, 275 — whole of both upper, removed, from phosphorus disease (Pitha), 222 Jeilteles, on a syphiloid, at Briinn in 1577, 208 Jobert, actual cauterv of cervix uteri, 387 — fungous growths from the sheaths of flexor tendons of the hands, 209 — section of clavicular portion of sterno- mastoid, 336 Jofinson, J. C, resection of ankle, case, 234 Johnson, mode of practising laryngoscopy, 151 Johnson and Fergusson, operation for intestinal obstruction, 297 Joints, authors on the, 225 — stiff (Malgaigne), 325 — disease accompanying osteo-myelitis (Demme), 216 Joly, Pouchet, and Musset, experiment on spontaneous generation in the Pyre- nees, 7 Jones, H., action of different anodj'nes, 441 Jones, on some points in connection with cerebral hfemorrhage, 91 — report of a case of catalepsy, 100 Jordan, F., ligature of carotid in progres- sive extravasation of blood within cra- nium, 240 Jordan, fibro-ccllular annulus of the ankle, 324 — on inversion in hernia, 292 Josi, tannate of manganese as febrifuge, 413 Karajan, case of poisoning by phosphorus from lucifers, 405 Keber, cases of poisoning by arsenic, 409 Kehrer, F. A., transit of ovum into Fallo- pian tube, &c., 345 Keith, on ovarian dropsy, 338 Keller, A., on stricture of the oesophagus, 276 — on oesophagostenosis, 171 Kennedy, disease like measles produced Ijy fungi, 51 Kerner, tests for quinine, 423 Kirkes, W. S., on chorea; its relation to valvular disease of the heart, and its treatment, 101 — on pericarditis consequent on anajicia, 190 — on ulcerative inflammation of the valves as a cause of pyaemia, 131 Klebs, pathological anatomy of the eve, 24G Klein, A.,surgical treatment of bronchocele, 279 Klob, on the migration of ova, 345 Knapp, binocular ophthalmoscopy, 245 — on astigmatism, 246 Knee-joint, authors on the, 225, 233-4 Koborn, carbonaceous disease of collierS) 459 Kobner, on auto-inoculability of syphilis, 208 Kofller, poisoning by arsenic from mill- stones, 410 Koussine, active principle of brayera (Bedall), 425 Kontny, on the use of opium in insanity, 112INDEX, Kramer, on CQllieterism and sounding of Eustachian tube, 2C7 Kiomeyer and Ludwig, on tlie bitter prin- ciple of gentian, 422 Kugel, I,., oblique vision in cases of astig- matism, 2IG Kussraau), transmigration of ovum, 344 Labbc, L., on coxalgin, 225 Laborde, on the alterations produced hy age on the capillaries of tlie brain, and on their relation to senile ramollisse- nient, 92 Lahorie, on the part of the symphysis pubis in labour, 357 Laboulbene, affection of hands of mill- stone cutters, 460 Labour, abnormal presentations in (Rams- bothain, Hiiter, Lazzati, Pajot), 364 — action of the uterus in (Donkin), 350 — complete obliteration of the os uteri obstructing (Mattei), 362 — condition of symphysis pubis in (La- borie), 357 — diseases of mother impeding, 361 — diseases of the child impeding, 367' — fibroid tumour of uterus obstructing (Barnes), 363 — induction of premature, report on, 375 — pelvic tumours obstructing (Braun), 362 — polypus uteri complicating (Freeman), 363 — temperature of body during and after (Winckel), 347 -- results of imperfect delivery in (Dun- can), 360 — statistics of, Guy's (Steele), 339 — do. (Hecker), 343 — do. (Lawrence), 340 Lachrymal organs (Fano, Hirschler), 254 Lactuca, on the soporific power of (Fron- miiller), 98 Lafargue, poisoning by mushrooms, fatal, 416 Lamy, poisonous action of thallium, 415 Lancereaux, on embolism, 138 — on meningeal hemorrhage in relation to pachymeningitis, 8 8 — poisoning by phosphorus, 404 — on ulcerous endocarditis, 129 Landoiizy, on pellagrous affections, 176/. Lane, lithotomy in the female, 315 — statistics of ovariotomy, 391 Lang, catarrh of bowel in infants, 338 Langenbeck, report of resections by ( Lucke), 234 Langer, on the infra-orbital canal, 209 Laryngoscope, method of using the (John- son), 150 — self-holding mirror (Maclif nzie), 150 Laryngoscopy, report on recent contribu- tions to (Meikel), 151 Larynx, foreign bodies in, operation for (Biyanl), 279 — do. (May), 280 — paralysis of muscles of (Tiircli), 154 — syphilis of (Wilks), 202 — idceratiou witliiu (Lewin, Tiirck), 152.3 — authors on, 279 Latham, P. M., general remarks on the practice of medicine, 37 Langier, on traumatic orcliitis, 306 Laurence, J. Z., progress of ophthalmic surgery, 240 — binocular ophthalmoscopy, 243 Lautemann, on quinic acid in the bodv, 423 Laval, on the influence of intestinal worms on the course of malarious fever, 175 Lawrence, \V., new operation for large mass of nasal polypi, 275 Lawrence, statistics of labour, 340 Laycock, cerebro-spinal origin and tlie diagnosis of tlie protrusion of the eye- balls termed anaemic, 107, 248 — on the causes and nature of the vascular kind of bronchoceie, and of the palpita- tions and i)ulsations termed anremic, 103 Lazzati, on transverse presentation of the foetus, 364 Lead, acetate of, use in pneumonia (Leudet), 162 Leared, A., the use of arsenic in phthisis, 158 — treatment of phthisis by the hot-air bath, 162 Leber, influence of performance of me- chanical work upon fatigue of muscles, 24 Lebert, H., diseases of thvroid gland, 279 Leblanc, C, on glanders, 193 Lee, II., lectures on syphilis, 195 Lee, R., induction of premature labour in albnnrinuria, &c., 376 Lee, perinaial section after loss of four inches of penis, 306 — on varicocele, 306 Leeches, improvements in use of, 437 Lc Fort, L., malformations of the uterus and vagina, 306 Le Gros Clerc, F., on orthopaedic surgery, 336 Leg, artificial (Buscb), 238 Legendre, on accidental anus, 286 Leger and Martin, inflammations of the vulva, 306 Legouest, modes of suicide by firearms, 417485 TXDEX. Legoucst, resection of lower part of fibula for tumour of bone, 222 — statistics of amputations, 237-8 Lemon juice, prejiaration of (Syincs), 429 Lens, the crystalline, authors on, 255 Lepage, juices of plants preserved by ether, 442 Leprosy in India (Carter), UGin Leroy, change in hydrated sesquioxide of iron, 413 Letbeljy, properties of aniline, &c., 432 Letter, preparation of citrate of magnesia, 408 Leudesdorf, lymphatic fistula cured by digital pressure, 209 — aneurism of tlie radial artery cured by digital pressure, 210 Leudet, congestion of the spinal cord after a fall or violent exertion, 89 — on the use of acetate of lead in pneu- monia, 162 Lewiii, G., on new growths in larynx, 280 Levden, E., on the pathology of tetanus, 193 — on giay degeneration of tlie spinal cord, 81 Liclien, report on, at Canstatt (Von Veiel), Lichtenstein, E., on laloplegia, 275 Liebreich, R., atlas of oplithalmoscopv, 240 — on retinitis Icucaeniica, 2C6 Ligature, the elastic (Richards), 179 Liuian, entry of fliiiiis into stomach of newly born infants after death, 450 — test for Ijlood-stains, 414 Linhart, caruncles of urethra, 313 — extraction of the roots of two teeth from the antrum, 240 Lip, cancer of, etiology (Lortet), 272 Lissner, case of congenital absence of uterus, 384 Lister, coagidation of the blood, 10 Litliotomv and lithotritv, authors on, 313, 318 — in the female (Lane), 315 Lithotrity, practical maxims in (Thomp- son), 313 — use of chloroform in (Collis), 315 Little, case of pneumothorax without per- foration rapidly consecutive on simple hyperacute pleurisy, 1G8 — influence of parturition on bodily deformities, 336 Liver, on the blood-stream in (Betz), 17 — fatty degeneration of, from certain poisons (Kariijan), 405-6 — treatment of suppurative imflamraation of (Cameron), 176'/ Liver, syphilis of (Oppolzer), Gl, 209 — do.' (Wilks), 200 — do. ancl of spleen (Bicrmer), 209 — on nitric acid in syphilitic cachexia of (Budd), 17Gd Llovet, sulphate of copper sticks as caus- tic, 414 Loret, on the resins of belladonna, &c., 419 Lorinser, F., treatment of osteitis, 222 Lortet, cancer of the lip, 272 Lowndes, poisoning by subsulpliate of mercury, recovery, 415 Lucae, cases of disease of the ear, 272 Lucifer matches, cases of poisoning by (Karajan, &c.), 405-6 — effects of manufacture of (Bristowe), 459 Liicke, A., resections by Langenbeck, 234 Liicke and Bartsclier, on blue pus, 189 Ludwig and Kromeyer, oil the bitter principle of gentian, 422 Luithler, insutiiciency of the mitral valve \yitliout organic cliange, 126 Luitiniczer, resection and metallic suture in ununited fracture, 225 Lungs, congestion of, chronic, simulating early plahisis (Bouchut), 163 — diagnosis and nature of certain chronic affections of (Brian), 164 — inflammation of, treatment of (Skoda), 163 — syphilis of (Wilks), 202 Lupus, on (Von Veiel), 176/i Luschka, anatomy of the human breast, 337 — ajipearance of lips of the ne\vly born after death, 455 Luton, injection of remedies into deep- sealed parts, 441 Lvmpliatic glands, syphilis of (Wilks), 201 — do. (ZeissI), 208 Lymphatic vessels, part taken by origins of, in nutrition and inflammation (Tomsa), 16 — fistula cured by digital pressure (Leu- desdorf), 209 Mackenzie, on functional aphonia, 150 — coma from enema of opium, 431 — on phlegmasia dolens, 338 — support for the laryngoscopic mirror, 150 Magavly, on iridodesis, 254 Magenta and tannin, influence of on blood-corpuscles (Roberts), 2 — case of iridectomy, 262 Magnesia, citrate of, preparation of (Letter, Martin), 408INDEX. 486 Maisolineuve, mechanism of dislocations of the jaw, 232 — statistics of internal urethrotomy, 313 Malarious fever, influence of intestinal worms on (Laval), 175 Malgaigne, on sliir joints, 325 jVIalignant carbuncle, on (MenschcU and Ueigel), 57 — disease of eye (Walton, Kulke), 251 — pustule (Uudd, Bourgeois), 193 — do. case of (Edmunds), 58 — do. -on the occurrence of, in England (Budd), 58 Mallez, on tlie perineeal douche, 302 Malmsten, on progressive and muscular atrophy, 120 Mamma, autliors on, 285 Manganese, tannate of, as febrifuge (Josi), 413 Mania ephemera (Crichton), 114 Manoury and Salmon, contamination of flour with lead, 465 Marce, on senile dementia, and the differ- ences between it and general paralysis, 117 Marcy and others, on the pulse, 121 ' Marotte and Trousseau, on ataxic locomo- trice progressive, 83 Marowski, L., on the social importance of syphilis, 208 — case of coe.xistence of primary, secondary, and tertiary symptoms, 208 Marsden, F., on keratitis, 254 Marson, sarraceniapurpurea in smallpox, 50 Marston, J., epidemic ophthalmia in cen- tral London schools, 254 — the fungus foot of India, 324 — syphilis as a constitutional disease, 65 — on the treatment of syphilis, 203 Martin, pretended citrate of magnesia, 408 — and Leger, inflammations of the vulva, 306 Martini, on artificial limbs, 325 Martyn, on recent occurrence of typhus in Bristol, 49 Marx, on urethral fever, 304 Mascarel, sufl"ocalion of newly horn in- fant, 455 Maschka, evidence of death by drowning, 449 — fracture of bones in burns, 448 — observations on hanging, 449 — state of the funis as evidence of live birth, 455 Masler, urxmia, &c., from phymosis, 306 Matcjovski, on tracheotomy, 278 Materia niedica and toxicology, report on, 401 Mattel, complete obliteration of os uteri ?is cause of difficult labour, 362 Matthiessen and Foster, on narcotine, 429 Maukopfl", cases of poisoning by sulphuric acid, 402 — do. phosphorus, 406 Mauricet, action of alkalies upon animals, 407 Max, 0., on the treatment of gonorrhcea, 195 May, J. F., coffee grain dislodged from larynx, 280 Mayer, swallowing of mud in drovrning, 450 McCliutock, on diseases of women, 338 — dropsy of ovum, 307 — on hydatidiforni ovum, 361 — inversions of the uterus, 387 — polypus of uterus, 389 — pelvic inflammation in non-puerperal state, 385 — puerperal pelvic cellulitis, 397 — tumours of vagina, 394 McLeod, hydrocyanic acid in the treat- ment of insanity, 115 McNamara, poisoning by belladonna, re- covery, 418 MeVeaeh, use of datura latula in asthma, 419 " McWhinnie, A. M., on tracheotomy, 278 Meadows, auscultation of the head, 339 Measles, disease resembling, produced by fungi (Kennedy), 51 — andrubeola (Frblich,Reuss,and others), 51 — on the temperature in (Ziemssen, Krab- ler),51 Medulla oblongata, remarkable case of lesion of (Walters), 100 Meig, on diseases of children, 338 Meissner, recent contributions to our knowledge of trichina disease, 171-3 — report on thrombosis and embolism, 130 Melanaemia, on capillary haemorrhages in (Heschl), 143 Melanthaceae, poisoning by (Edwards, Trapp, Warneck), 417 Melasma, on (Von Veiel), 176/i Melays, fracture of the clavicle by muscles, 225 Meningeal hremorrhage in relation to pachymeningitis (Lancereaux), 88 Menschel and Beigel, on malignant car- buncle, 57 Menstruation without sanguineous dis- charge (Gubler), 385 — vicarious, influence of, on ovulation, 349 Merbachon, the metallic sound in pneumo- thorax, 168 Mercury, effects of, in syphilis (Wilks), 198 — poisoning by subsulphate, recovery,415INDEX. 487 Meikel, report on recent contributions to 1 laryngoscopy, 151 Meryon, E., researches on paralysis, 104 — on tabes dorsalis, 304 Jlesenterv, strangulation of (Dnchaussoy), 294 Metamorphosis of matter during inanition (Schultzen), 27 — external to and within the body (Van Deen), 29 Meyerstein and Thiry, heat produced by muscular contraction, 25 Meynert, abscess in the pons Varolii, 92 Michea, sensations of hunger and thirst in the insane. 111 Michel, treatment of abscess from spinal caries, 223 Midwifery, &c., authors on, 337 Miles, B. B., fractured femur treated with Smith's anterior splint, 223 Miliaria, chronic, on (Von Veiel), 176,i7 Milk from diseased cows, effects of, 463 — tests for water in (Vogel), 4G4 Millet, danger of ferruginous preparations at the commencement of phthisis, 162 Millon and Commaile, purification of cop- per from arsenic, 411 Millstone cutters, affection of the hands of (Laboulbene), 460 Milroy, D., on pulmonary diseases and their relation to syphilis, 209 Milton, J. L., on spermatorrhoea, 302 Mine disease (Rawitz), 460 Mineral waters, congelation for concentra- tion of (Pctrequiii), 416 Minkiewicz, J., on operations for varix, 213 Mirault, and Verneuil, curious aflfection of the hand, 324 Mitchell, poisoning by mushrooms, 416 Mitral valve, insufficiency of, without organic change (Luithler), 126 Molecular motion in animal cells (Briicke), 2 Montgomery, on urethral calculus, 313 — local treatment of acute gonorrhoea, 195 Moor, J., on umbilical hernia, 293 Moor, \V. II., case of placenta prtevia, 370 Moore, C. H., operation for retention of urine in cancer of vulva, 311 Moore, II. strangulated stomaeii, 293 Moore, treatment of malarious fever by injection of quinine, 53 >looren, A., on retinitis pigmentosa, 267 Moorhead, on hydatidiforra ovum, 3G1 Moos, on the sudden occurrence of deaf- ness, 272 Morbid impulse, on (Carmicliael), 114 Morel, on perchloride of iron in phagedenic ulcers, 208 Morel-Lavallee, coxalgia as a cause of congenital dislocation, 336 — subacromial dislocation of clavicle, 233 — on traumatic detachments of skin and subjacent tissues, 187 Morgan, C. de, rapid spontaneous cure of popliteal aneurism, 210 Moriz, rape on a child, with great injury, 452 Morphia, &c., physiological action of (Albers), 430 — fatal poisoning by gr. iij in rectum (Anstie), 431 — recovery in a child from gr. i, 431 —injection of, after operations under chloroform (Paget), 182 — iodic acid test for (Dupre), 432 Moulds, on the vegetation of (Raulin), 8 Mucus and pus,formationof (Chambers),33 Mudge and Van Someren, fungus testis teated by pot. iod., 306 Miiller, extra-uterine fcetation in hernial sac, 357 — and Witt, cases of gastric fistula, 176 Murchison, on the causes of continued fever, 47 Murphy, case of placenta previa, 370 — maternal mortality under use of for- ceps, 377 Muscles of the arm, on (Zuradelli), 118 — atrophied, constant galvanic current to (Brenner), 120 — fatigue of, the chemical conditions of (Ranke), 24 — relation to mechanical work (Leber), 24 Muscular action, physiology of (RadclifFe), 69 — influence of nerves upon (RadclifFe), 72 — relation of heat produced by, to work performed (Meyerstein and Tliiry), 25 — activity, relation of, to oxidation, &c. (Sczelk'ow), 21 — atrophy, progressive (Malmsten), 120 — system, diseases of, 118, 209 Mushrooms, poisoning by. See Fungi. Musset, Pouchet, and Joly, experiments on spontaneous generation in the Pyrenees, 7 Myocarditis, on the anatomy and diagno- sis of (Demme), 130 Myopia a cause of divergent squint (Donders), 250 Myrtle, case of anicmic sphacelus, 121 Najvus, authors on, 214 Narcotic vapours, mode of death fyoifl (Richardson), 145 *INDEX. 488 Narcotine, on (Multliiesseu ami Foster), 429 Naros, anilinrs on, 275 Neck, aiiciirismal tumours involving the (Cockle), 133 — authors on, 279 Necrosis, Ireatineiit of, by operation (Pitha), 220 ■— authors on, 222 Nelson, T., medical results of the recent Chinese wars, 17Gfl Nelaton, on ailenoid of the mamma, 285 — arterio-venous aneurism, operation, fatal, 209 — case of cancer of upper jaw, 239 — htCMiorrhage from gunshot wound of hand, 213 — case of strangulated fsimoral hernia, 288 — on myeloid tumours, 222 Nerve affections, diphtherial (Greenhow), 104 Nerves, reunion, end to end, of sensitive with motor (l^liillippeaux and Vulpian), 32 — Schuli ar.d Langer on, 209 — syphilis of (WilUs), 203 Nervous affections, asthenic, treatment of (Radcliffe), 96 — diseases, contagiousness of (Bouchut), 93 — disorders from alcohol, ammonia in (Piorry), 98 — system, diagnosis of syphilitic affec- tions of (Zanibaco), 205 — do. electrical examination of, for diagnosis, 97 — do. and brain, lectures on certain diseases of (Radcliffe), 69 — do. svphilitic affections of (Brown- Se'quard, &c.). 94, 96 — do. syphiloma of (Wagner), 92 — do. of the heart, new motor (V. Bezold), 18 — do do. vagus (Goltz), 19 Netfer, A., on dark rooms in t!ie treat- ment of hemeralopia, 267 Neumann, P., mouvement de manege caused by syphilis, 208 Neuralgia, ' local application of tiuct. iodinii in, 87 Neuro-retinitis, clinical lecture on (Von Griile), 262 Newl)igging, poisoning by flesh of Ameri- can partridge, 430 IIypera;sthesia of the throat (Tiirck), 99 Newman, cases of diphtheria, 55 Niemann, cases of rui)lnre of uterus, 374 Nitrate of silver, general paralysis success- fully treated by (Vidal, &c.), 84 Nitric acid in svphiliilc cachexia (Budd), 176^/ — ))oi3oning by, 401 Nitrn.be;izi)lc, prnpsriics of (Lethebv), 432 Nitrogen, cvclc of, in the animal organism (Voii), 20 Nitzselie, K. 11., on laieral curvature of ibe spine, 223 Nivert, on cephalic version, 337 Nivet, diagnosis of hernia, 289 Noir, ligaiurc of the external carotid for a wound of the facial, 209 North, A., on hospital giangrenc, 190 Nose, effects on, of manufacture of bichro- mate of potass, 457 ifotta, use of liqueur de villati in caries, 222 Nottingham, disease of tongue, 275 Noyes, II. D., strabismus treated by bring- ing forward the insertion of one of the recti, 248 — effects of albuminuria on the retina, 267 Nunueley, T., on the Calabar bean, 429 — use of the Calabar bean in prolapsus of iris, 255 Nutrition and inflammation, part taken in, bv origins of Ivmphatic vessels (Tomsa), 16. Obdmalor hernia (Ulrich and Wilms, Coulson), 293 Obstruction, mechanical, of small intestines (Adclniann), 293 — flo. (Duchanssoy), 294 Occupations, effects of, on healtli, 457 Oculo-pupillary and vascular phenomena produced by section of the sympatlietic nerve (Bernard), 30 Odling, detection of arsenic in copper, 410 (Esophagus and pharynx, authors on, 276 ffisophagoslenosis, on (Keller), 171 Ogilvie, J. F., on elephantiasis of scrotum, 306 Ogle, J. T)., on the treatment of tasnia, especially by the use of llie oil of male fern, 175 — J. W., the Calabar bean paper, 255 — cases of ichthyosis sebacea, 176i — delirium tremens successfully treated by opium, 98 Oliver, on scurvy and antiscorbutics, 38 Olsliauseii, obliquely distorted pelvis, 302 — on rupture of uterus, 375 Onanism and spermalorrboca (Clemens), 299 — on (Hilton), 300 Onsum, poisonous action of salts of baryta, 408INDEX. 489 Onychia maligna cured by local use of arsenic, 32-t Operations in midwifery, report on, 375 Oplitlialniic congress and session, 1862, coinpte rendu of, 2-10 Ophthalmoscopy, atlas of, (Liehreich), 240 — auto- (Geiauci Teulon, lleymann), 246 — binocular (Laurence, Carter), 243 — do. (Knapp), 243 Opium, effects of various constituenis of (Albers), 430 — coma from enema of (Mackenzie), 431 — use of in shock and reaction of surgical injuries (Arnold), 182 — do. in traumalic delirium (Uoser), 186 — do. in insanity (Kontny, Erlenmeyer, Focke), 112 Oppolzer, on hydrophobia, 193 — case of myositis, 209 — rheumatic inflammation of cervical ver- tebra, 279 — syphilis of the liver, 64, 209 — traumatic peritonitis, 286 Ore, introduction of air into the veins, 177 Organic chemical products, report on, 432 Organic substances, poisoning by, 416 Ortliopa;dic surgery, report on, 325 Osborn, case of aneurism of the aorta pressing on the superior cava, 132 Osteitis, authors on, 222 Osteomalacia, C.-esarean section in (Winckel), 383 Osteo - myelitis, diffuse spontaneous (Dcmme), 214 Osteoplasty, on (Wolff), 184 — (Langenbeck, Ilugiiier, Billroth), 185 — (Volkmann), 186 Otitis, inflammation of the brain from, \Yitliout caries (Gruber), 87 Ovaries, diseases of; 391 — and uterus, extirpation of (Clay), 393 Ozaena and its treatment (Trousseau), 149 Ovariotomy, report on, 391 — statistics of, 391 Overbeck, on albuminous urine following iriterruption of the lilood-stream, 23 Ovum, (h opsy of (McChntock), 367 — human, transmigration of (Kussra'aul), 34 t — do. (Klob, Kehrer), 345 — hydatidiform, on, 361 Oxygen, role ascribed to, in destruction of animal and vegetable matter (Pasteur), 6 Oxidation, relation of, to muscular ac- .tivity (Sczelkow), 21 Oysters, poisoning by, from copper, 464 Pachymeningitis, meningeal hfcmorrliage in relation to (Lancereaux), 83 Pagenstecher, A., report on 220 cases of disease of the ear, 272 Paget, J., congeniial inguinal hernia, 293 — injection of morphia after operations under chloroform, 182 — removal of scapula for tumour of bone, 222 Pain, condition of nervous svstera in (Rad- clifte), 80 — relief of (Detmold), 187 Pajot, on cephaloiripsy, 333 — presentations of trunk in extreme con- tractions of pelvis, 305 Palate, authors on, 275 Palmer, on reflex hemiplegia, 107 Palpitations, anajmic, cerebro spinal origin of (Laycock), 108 Panas, on faulty cicatrices and their treat- ment, 189 Pancreas, physiology of (Schiff), 13 Panum, experiments on embolism, 130, 210 — researches on the transfusion of blood,! 1 — on septica?niia, 190 Paracentesis thoracis (Bowditch), 165,2vSl Paralysis agitans, on (Skoda), 100 — atiophic muscular, iodide of potash in (Taylor), 120 — cases of (Reynolds), 90 — caused by working under compressed air (Babingtou, Cuthbert), 88 — from cold (Worms), 100 — forms and treatment of (Brown- Seqnard), 96 — general, riifl'erences between, and senile dementia (Marco), 117 — infantile (Heine), 93 — partial, of face (Empis), SO — pathological and practical researches on (Meryon), 104 — progressive, of tongue, &c., treated by Faradization (Tomniasi), 121 — general (Westphal, Leydcn), Sl-2 — do. (Sappey, Friedrich, Marotti, Trousseau), 38 — (Isiiard), 85 — successfully treated with nitrate of silver (Vidal, Duguet, llerschell), 84 — do. (Brown-Sequard), 93 — do. (VV'underlich), 96 — incipient curedbv strvchnia (Revnolds), 86 — syphilitic (Passavant), 208 Pardey, placenta prajvia with twins, 363 Parker, L., on liitent syphilis, 208 Parotid, authors on, 279 Pnrluiitim. See Labour. Passavant, G., congenital fissures of the bar d p date, 276 — injuries by clysterj, 299 — on sypliiliticiparalyses, 203490 INDEX. Pasteur, fermentation apart from air, G — role of oxygen in destruction of animal and vegetable matter, G — on putrefaction, 7 Patliology and practical medicine, report on, 33 — cellular, present aspect of (Turner), 33 Pauli, F., liypertropliy of prostate, 313 Pavy, oil pepsine and digestive fluids, 43G — immunity of stomach from digestion during life, 15 Peacock, J. B., on hospitals in Northern Italy, and on pellagra, 17Gi — statistical analysis of cases of chorea, 101 Pecholier, effects of tartar emetic and ipe- cacuanha on animals, 411, 424 Pedrolli, formula of iodine, arsenic, hydr., for obstinate syphilis, 415 Pellagra, notes on, and on hospitals in Italy (Peacock), 176i — in Spain (Landouzy), 176/ Pellischek, contamination of bread by poisonous seeds, 464 PeUizani, on communication of sypbilis by means of inoculation of blood, 67 Pelvic cellulitis (McClintock), 397 — inflammation in non-puerperal state (McClintock), 385 Pelvis, abnormal conditions of, 362 — tumours in, obstructing labour (Brami), 362 — presentation of trunk in extreme con- traction of (Pajot), 364 Pemphigus, chronic, treatment (Von Veiel), 1765- — acute, case of (Ulmer, Hertz), 176/t Pennefather, J., simultaneous uterine and extra-uterine pregnancy, 355 Penis, diseases of, authors on, 306 Pepsine and digestive fluids (Pavy), 436 Percussion sound, clear, and its relation to tympanitic (Schrant), 1G4 Pereles, poisoning by powdered glass, 401 Pericarditis, on the diagnosis of (Skoda), 130 — clinical lectures on diseases of heart (Duehek), 128 Perinseura, laceration of (Bryant, Ricketls) 375 Periosteum, transplantation of (Buck- holz), 5 — do. (Wolff), 184 — do. (Volkmann), 186 Peritoneum, hydro-, clinical report on (Flint), 169 Peritonitis, blisters in (Nelaton), 292 Pertussis. See Hooping-cough. Peters, D. C, on gunshot wounds, 225 Peters, D. C, compound fracture of femur, conservative treatment of, 224 Petrequin, congelation for concentrating mineral waters, 416 Petroft', A., on ura;mia, 176e Pfaff, on tiie age of blood-stains, 445 — ol. terebiiilh. in prosopalgia, 99 Pfeiffer, C, on crushing the'placenta, 370 Pharmaceutics, general, report on, 442 Pharynx and oesophagus, authors on, 276 Phillippeaux and Vulpian, on the reunion, end to end, of sensitive nervous fibres with motor ones, 32 Philipeaux, cauterization of omentum in hernia, 292 Phillips, M., cases of urethrotomy, 313 Phthisis, absence of, in western islands of Scotland, 456 — dimensions of the chest in (Gintrac), 161 — danger of ferruginous preparations at the commencement of (Millet), 162 — early, chronic congestion of the lungs simulating (Bouchut), 163 — treatment of, by hot-air bath (Leared), 162 — use of arsenic in (Leared), 158 — use of dilute phosphoric acid in (Cot- ton), 162 — use of tine, ferri muriatis in (Cotton), 158 Phthisical persons, conditions afl'ecting the constitution of (Smith), 158 Phosphorus, cases of poisoning by, 404 — disease, whole of both upper jaws re- moved (Pitha), 222 Physostigma venenosum. See Calabar heart. Phytolacca decandra, use of, 441 Pick, J. F., syphiUtic mothers and their children, 208 Pihan-Dufeillay, on the alterations of the internal organs produced by syphilis, 66 Piorry, ammonia in nervous disorders from use of alcohol, 98 Pissling, W., case of glanders, 193 Pitha, v., immediate application of splints in fractures, 223 — exarticulation of the inferior maxilla,240 — popliteal aneurism cured by combined flexion and compression, 209 — treatment of necrosis by operation, 220 — on uriuoplasty and staphyloraphy, 276 Pityriasis, treatment of (Von Veiel), 1765- Placenta, adherent (llamsbotham), 370 — management of (Schule), 371 ■— prxvia (Murphy, Pfeifer),370 — do. (Williams, Schule), 371 — do. hajmorrhage in (Uonkin), 352 — do. occuring with twin births (Par- dey, Ellis, Chambers, West), 363491 INDEX. Plants, diseases of structure of (Walden- biirg), 5 — juices of, preservation by ether, 442 Plastic surgery, report on, 184 Pleurisy, clinical lecture on (Salter), ] 65 Ploss, poisoning by atropine in an oint- ment , 419 Pneumonia, use of acetate of lead in (Leudet), 162 Pneumothorax, on (Biermer), 168 — (Rosenthal), 168 — pitch of the metallic sound in (Mer- bach), 168 — without perforation, rapidly consecutive on simple hyperacute pleurisy, 168 Poisons, detection of, by dialysis (Harvey, Cossa), 401 Poland, A, cases of foreign bodies in stomach and intestines, 235 Politzer, new treatment of obstructions of the Eustachian tube, 272 Polypi laryngeal, on (Tiirck), 155 Polypus of uterus (McClintock), 389 — (Hicks), 390 — occasioning hemorrhage after delivery (Ramsbotham), 370 Pons Varolii, abscess in (Meynert), 92 Poor, dyskrasia malarica, and its causal relation to ac»ie, furuncles, and authiax, 53 Popham, poisoning by eytisus laburnum, 429 Potass bicarbonate, effect of, on animals (Mauricet), 407 — bichromate of, effects of manufacture on health (Becourt and Chevallier), 457 — do (Thyson), 458 — bilartrate formation of (Suter), 408 — nitrate, large doses of, effect of (Wilks, Taylor), 407 — jiermanganatc of, as a disinfectant (Deraarquay), 182 Potter, A. H., on fractures of the spine, 225 Pouchct, Joly and Musset, experiments on spontaneous generation in the Pyrenees, 7 Poulet, incomplete luxation inwards of elbow, 233 Powell, R. II., thoracentesis in serous effusion, 284 Practical medicine and pathology, report on, 33 Practice of medicine, general remarks on . (Latham), 37 Pravaz, C, on lateral curvature of spine, 223 Pregnancy in a girl ten years of age (Cur- tis), 394 Pregnancy simultaneous uterine and extra- uterine (Cooke), 353 — do. (Pennefather), 355 — unusual locality of (llaydon), 356 — extra-uterine (Miiller, Simpson, Dun- can), 357 Premature labour, induction of (Storer, Lee, Barnes, Giordano), 375 — do. by nitrate of silver (Scanzoni), 377 Primavera and Prudcnte, on the urine in fever, 48 Pritehard, A., on carbuncle, 209 — wound of the vertebral artery, 209 — sphacelus of the tongue, 275 Pritehard, abortion produced by tents of laminaria digitata, 360 Procter, mode of obtaining atropine, 419 Prosopalgia, ol. terebinth in (Pfaff), 99 Prostate, hypertrophy of (Pauli), 313 Protrusion of eyeballs, termed anajmic, origin and diagnosis (Laycock), 107 Prurigo, treatment of (Von Veiel), l/Gg Psoriasis at Canstatt (Von Veiel), 176j' Psychiatrik, 110 Ptelea trifoliata, use of, 440 Public health, report on, 456 — address on (Christison), 456 Puech, influence of vicarious menstruation on ovulation, 349 Puerperal convulsions (Bossi, Rams- botham), 395 — diseases (Simpson, Sadler), 396-7 — pelvic cellulitis (^IcClintock), 397 — state, slowness of pulse in (Blot), 399 — state. See Labour. Pulmonary diseases and their relation to syphilis (Milroy, Aitken), 209 Pulse, on the (Marcy, Mach, Duchek, Betz), 121 — extreme rapidity of (Latham), 37 — slowness of, in puerperal state(Blot), 399 — and sounds of heart, reduplication of (Skoda), 128 Punctures, capillary, treatment of collec- tions of pus and blood by (Voilleraier), 188 Pupil, contraction of, by belladonna, reflex (Ilayden), 418 — state of, in cerebral haemorrhage (Jones), 91 Purpura, puerperal (Sadler), 397 Pus and mucus, formation of (Chambers), 33 — blue, on (Liicke and Bartscher), 189 — and counective-tissue-corpuseles (V. Recklinghausen), 3 — decomposing, poisoning by (Roser), 192 Pustule, malignant (Menschell and Beigel, Edwards, Budd), 57-8INDEX. Pulrefiiction, researches on (Pasteur), 6 — ill reference to disinfection (Chevallier'), 179 Putrid infection (Pnnnm, Roser), 190 I'ucmia, on (Kiriics, Qnain), 190-2 — ulcerative inllaninialion of tlie valves of the lieart as a cause of (Kirlies), 130 Pylorus, sound passed tlirough (Blanchet), 17G Quain, R., on pvEcmin, 190 — on recurrent (il)roid tumours, 214 Quinic acid yielding hypuric acid in the budy (Lauteman), 423 Quinine, subcutaneous injection of, in malarious fever (Moore), 53 — tests for (Kerner), 423 Quinlan, J. B., hasinorrhage in operations for elephantiasis of scrotum, 306 EadclifFe, lectures on certain disorders of the brain and nervous system, 69 — hyperphosphites in asthenic affections of nervous system, 96 Radcliffe, S. B., on drainage in resection of joints, 234 Eadesyge probably a derivative of syphilis (l''aye and Ilebra), 68 Eamollissement, senile, relation of altera- tions in the capillaries of the brain to, (Laborde), 92 Ramsbotham, abnormal presentations in lal;our, 364 — acute inversion of uterus, 387 — cases of puerperal convulsions, 395 — post-partum hajmorrhage, 370 Ranke, chemical conditions of fatigue of muscles, 24 Ranking, W. H., encephaloid disease of bladder, 313 Ranvier, L., poisoning by Incifer matches, 406 Rape, case of, on a child, with great injury (Moiiz), 452 Rauchfuss, removal of laryngeal polypus anil of one vocal cord, 280 Raulin, on the vegetation of moulds, S Rawitz, on mine disease, 460 Recklinghausen, V., pus and connective- tissue-corpuscles, 3 — on the absorption of fat, 15 — retinitis leucxmica, 267 Rectum, authors on, 299 — malformations of, operation (Bryant), 297 — do. (Witt), 298 — polvpus of (Bryant), 293 — syphilis of (Wilks), 203 Reder, A., pathology and treatment of venereal disease, 193 Redford, on obstetrics, 337 Redtenbacher, inorganic adulteration of flour, 4G5 Reflex action, moderators of, in brain of frog (Setelieiiow), 32 — lieiiiiplegia, on (Palmer), 107 Refraction and accommodation, authors on, 251 . Reichert, new reforms in the doctrine of the cell, 1 Reiset, chemical researches on the respira- tion of the animals of a farm, 20 Reniak, on tabes dorsalis, 85, 304 Remedies, new, report on 440 llcnshaw, sarracenia purpurea in smallpox, 49 Renz, inflammation of tongue after eating bilberries, 176 Resection. See Excision. Respiration of animals of a farm (Reiset), 20 — artificial, in suspended animation (Richardson), 147 — movements of, influence on those of the iris (Vigouroux), 31 Respiratory system, report on, 144 Retina, diseases of, report on, 2G2 — do. authors on, 267 — detachment of (Carter), 245 Retinitis leucajmica (Liebreich), 266 Retroversion of gravid uterus (Harder), 358 Renmont, on the sulphurous therma; of Aix la Chapelle in syphilis, 65 Reveil, 0., on disinfectants, 179 Reynolds, caSes of paralysis, 90 — case of incipient wasting palsy cured by strychnine, 86 Rheumatic fever, on the treatment of (Birkbeck^ 62 — do. (Wade), 63 — statistics of tlie treatment of (Cham- bers), 62 Rheumatism, articular, natural history of (Flint), 58 — hydrothorax with, treated by veratria and opium (Bouchui), 59 — rheumatic gout, and sciatica, lectures on (Fuller), 59 Rhinoscopy, authors on, 151, 275 Rhus toxicodendron, violent action of, 429 Rhvihniical muscular motion, nature of (lladcliffc), 74 Richard, A., case of cirsoid aneurism, 214 Richardson, B. W., restoration of natural ajipearance after drowning, 451 — treatment of suspended animation 144 Rickets, Cesarean section in (\Vinckel),383 Ricketts, C, laceration of perinaium in forceps cases, 375493 INDEX. Higauei-, on retention of urine, 313 Riggson, J. W., pins in the oesophagus, 270 Uigor mortis, nature of (Radclitte), 72 Ilindfleisch, C, on spina bifida, 223 — histology of gray degeneration of brain and spinal cord, 93 Eizzoli, on inlrabuccal removal of inferior maxilla, 210 Roberts, blood-corpuscles under magenia and tannin, 2 — successful use of pot. iodid. in aneurism, 132 Robertson, D. A., on the Calabar bean, 253, 428 Robertson, on digitalis in insanity, 116 Roger, on pertussis, 158 Rolnig, influence of the bile on the action of the heart, 17 RoUett, experiments and observations on the blood, 2 Rosenthal, on pneumothorax, 1G9 Roser, W., use of opium in traumatic de- lirium, 186 — on periostitis and osteomyelitis, 222 — on trachoma, 246 Rouclier, on the re-use, &c., of leeches, 438 Routh, on infant feeding, 339 Rubeola and measles (I'rblich and others), 51 Rutncain, use of, 441 Rupprecht, L., result of operations for hernia, 293 Russell, influence of exhaustion of spinal cord in inducing paralysis, 90 -— on flat foot, 321 Rust, conlaniiuation of flour by (Pelli- schek), 463 Ruthnum, T., on chylous hydrocele, 306 Sachs, place of formation of carbonic acid, 22 Sadler, T. M., puerperal purpura, 397 Salisbury, on cliolesterine and seroline, 28 — measles produced by fungi, 51 Salmon and Manoury, contamination of flour with lead, 4C5 Salter, II., asthma relieved by alcohol, 157 Siimisch, T., anatomy of tlie eye, 240 Sandahl, 0. T., effects of condensed air, 156, 460 Sanderson, J. B., on asthma, 156 Sappey, case of ataxic locomotrice progres- sive, 83 Sarracenia purpurea in smallpox (Ren- ■Shaw), 49 — do. (ITaldane, Marsoii), 50 — do. (.\larson), 440 Savage, on the fem;;le pelvic organs, 338 Savory, W. S., farcy cured by iodide of potassium, 193 SawostitzUi, osteoplastic amputation of tliigh, 239 Sayre, L. A., artificial hip-joint in bony anchylosis, 225 — tenotomy in hip disease, 225 — on cutting at once to the sac in hernia, 292 Scammony, properties of (Bernatzik), 421 Scanzoni, on chronic metritis, 337 — rules for premature labour in distorted pelvis, 377 Scaiiet fever, rheumatism accompanying (Wilks), 50 — resembling measles (rubeola) (Wilks),50 Schaclit, solution of bismuth in gastric disease, 414 Seheiber, case of complete obliteration of the aorta, 136 Schiess, H., statistics of diseases of the eye 246 — on panophthalmitis, 246 — Schiess-Gemusius, pathology of the eye, 246 Schiff, physiology of pancreas, spleen, and stomach, 13 Schmidt, on filuin and the causes of its coagulation, 8 Schmiiit, H., statistics of amputations, &c., at Tubingen, 238 Schmitt, C, case of aspermatism, 304 Scholz, on abdominal section, 297 Schott, on calcareous metastasis, 36 Sclirant, on clear jjcrcussion sound and its relation to tympanitic, 164 — on Skoda's doctrine of consonance, 165 Schroft, ill effects from eating vanille ice, 466 Scliuh, on cancer of the mamma, 283 — on disease of the knee, 223 — repeated resections of the radial nerve, 209 — case of neuroma in the deltoid muscle, 209 — on excisions, &c., of nerves, 209 — on urinoplasty, 276 Scliule, management of the placenta, 371 Schiiller, diagnosis of catarrh of the tym- panum, 272 Scliiellz, B., on spermatorrhoea and emis- sions, 300 — on impntencc, 302-4 Schultzen, on the metamorphosis of matter during inanition, 27 Scluilze, case of Cicsarean section, 383 Schwarize, II., retrospect of ten years in aural surgery, 272 — on diseases of tlie Eustachian tube, 272 Schweigger, on astigmatism, 240494. INDEX. Sciatica, gout, and rheumatism, lectures on (Fuller), 59 — cauterization of ear in, successful (I'liico), 99 Scotland, mortality in (Cliristison), 457 Scouteltcn, electricity of the blood in living animals, 21 Scrotum, diseases of, authors on, 306 Scurvy, on remedies for (Oliver), 38 Sczelkow, on the relation between oxida- tion and muscular activity, 21 Sehorrhoea, on (Von Veiel), nCff Secretory system, diseases, report on, 176J Seller, on delirium tremens, 93 Semeleder, on aesophagoscopy, 276 — inflammation of cellular tissue of neck, 279 Senecio gracilis, use of, 441 Senftleben, H., on excision of joints, 234 — acute rheumatic periostitis of lower jaw, 239 Sensation, physiology of (Radcliffe), 69- 76 Sensitive nerves, reunion, end to end, with motor (Phillippeaux and Vulpian), 32 Septicsemia on (Panum, Roser), 190 — treatment by sulphite of magnesia (Cantani), 193 Seroline and chblesterine as secretions (Salisbury), 28 Setchenow, moderators of reflex movement in brain of frog, 32 Seux, on diseases of new-born children, 338 Shock, surgical, use of opium in (Arnold), 182 Shortt, poisoning by datura stramonium, 419 Sigmund, on examination and ohservation of syphilis, 208 — on syphilitic affections of the mouth, 208 — on syphilis of the cervix uteri, 208 Simon, G., osteoplastic resections of the jaw, 240 Simon, effects of diseased meat, 462 Simpson, exanthemata in the puerperal state, 396 — case of extra-uterine pregnancy, 357 Skey, gall-bladder in the sac of a femoral hernia, 293 Skin, diseases of, report on, ITGd — do. developed in schools, workhouses, and factories (Hunt), 176/ — do. observed at Canstatt, 1855—1861 (Von Veiel), 176/ — traumatic detachments of, and of sub- cutaneous tissues (Morel-Lavallee), 187 Skoda, on cardiac murmurs not easily ex- plicable, 131 — on the diagnosis of pericarditis, 130 — on reduplication of the pulse and sounds of the heart, 128 —129**^'"''°""^^ insuflSciency of the valves, — paralysis agitans, post-mortem, 100 — on the treatment of pulmonary inflam- mation, 163 — doctrine of consonance, on (Scbranf). 165 ^ Slodlcowski, J., on syphilitic paraplegia. Smallpox, epidemic of, in Edinburgh, 50 — prevention of pitting in (Bowen), 50 — sarracenia purpurea in, 49-50 — iodine to prevent pitting in (Pirineer), 176e ^ Smart, epidemics of yellow fever in Ber- muda, 53 Smedt, on the iodide of quinine'and iron, 413 Smee, artificial production of fibrin from albumen, 11 Smith, A., on hay fever, 157 Smith, D. P., excision of head of femur after gunshot wound, 234 — new method of amputating the leg, 234 — new splint for fractures of femur, 224 — on harelip, 275 Smith, E., influence of tohacco on the pulse, 420 — inquiry into conditions affecting phtbisical'persons when in health, 158 Smith, N., anterior ^lint for femur, 223 Smith, T., on acute necrosis 'of growing bones, 222 — resection of knee in children, 234 — statistics of ovariotomy, 391 Smith, W., poisoning by artemisia absin- thium, 422 Smith, on injuries of the hand, 324 Snake bite, fatal (Emanuel), 437 Snellen, H., diseases of cornea and con- junctiva, 254 — on suture in entropion, 246 — test types for the determination of tbe acuteness of vision, 241 Soda, carbonate of, effects of, on animals (Mauricet), 407 — formed naturally from sea water (Haines), 408 Sodomy, on (Casper), 443 Solanaccaj, poisoning by,418 Solomon, J. C, account of operations for relief of tension of eyeball, &c., 262INDEX. 495 Soubeiran, recurrent effects of bite of viper, 437 Sounds, cartliac, reduplication of (Skoda), 128 Spasm, patbologv and treatment of (Rad- cliffe), 80 Special surgery, report on, 239 Speck, effect of bodily exertion upon the organism, 27 Spence, J., amptutation at bip-joiut, 238 — excision of elbow, 234 — extraction of foreign body from bron- cbus, 280 — fracture of neck of scapula, with post- mortem, 225 — fracture with dislocation of humerus, 224 — requisites of a good stump, 237 — tracheotomy tube dropped into left bronchus, 278 Spermatorrhoea and onanism (Clemens, Dicenta), 299 — authors on, 302 Sphacelus, anremic (Myrtle), 121 Sphygmograph (Marey's), 121 Spina bifida, authors on, 223 Spinal cord, congestion of, after a fall or violent exertions (Leudel), 89 — exhaustion of, inducing paralysis (Russell), 90 — on gray degeneration of (Leyden), 81 — on degenerative atrophy of posteTter columns of (Friedrich, Sappy, Marotte, Trousseau), 83 — do. do. (Westphal), 82 — do. do. (Isnard),85 Spinal meningitis and myelitis, chronic (Camerer), 81 Spinal curvature, treatment of (Brod- hurst), 334 Spine, lateral curvature of, authors on, 222 — Pott's curvature, authors on, 223 — reduction of dislocation of (Higginson), 233 — trephining in fracture of (B.-Sdquard), 225 Spitzer, traumatic tetanus, curare used unsuccessfully, 98 Spleen, function of (Schiff), 13 — nitric acid in syphilitic enlargement of liver and (Budd), 17Gd Splint, anterior, for fractured femur (Smith's), 223 — new, for gunshot fractures of femur and tibia, 225 Spontaneous generation (Pasteur), G — experiments on, in the Pyrenees (Pou- cliet, Joly,and Musset), 7 Stabel, foreign body in the oesophagus, 276 Staffhorst, A., on Malgaigne's exarticiila- tion of foot, 325 Stammering, authors on, 275 Stanford, K. F., on hospital gangrene, 190 Staphyloraphy, Von Pitha on, 276 Stark, on cardiac cyanosis, 126 — dilatation of the heart in chlorosis, disappearing, 126 Statistical method in medicine, fallacies of (Barnes), llCg Steele, operation for strangulated umbili- cal hernia, 293 — statistics of labour at Guy's Lying- in Charity, 339 Steinhaus, apparent absence of penis, operation, 306 Steinlin, W., on harelip, 275 Stellvvag, K., on iridencleisis, 254 Sterility, on (Curling), 452 Sternum, partial excision of (Symanowski), 284 Stiebel, on rachitis, 338 Stokes, case of diphtheria with deposit in. smaller bronchi, 55 Stokvis, on urea as the cause of ursemia, 1765 — on albuminuria, 176e Stomach, physiology of (Schiff), 13 — immunity of, from digestion during life (Pavy), 15 Stone in the bladder, authors on, 313-18 Stonemasons, bronchitis in (Greenhow), 460 Storch, 0., congenital hygroma of the neck, 279 Storer, ou abortion, 359" — on dilatation of os uteri by fluid pres- sure from above, 375 Strabismus, pathogenesis of (Donders), 250 — treated by briuging forward the inser- tion of one of the recti (Noyes), 248 Streatfield, J. F., new forceps for fixing the eye, 246 Streubel, C. W., report on hernia, 292 Streubel, reduction of recent traumatic luxations, 233 Stricture, authors ou, 313 Strychnia, incipient wasting palsy cured by (Heynolds), 86 Strychnia, Calabar bean as antidote to (Fraser), 427 Stump, requisites of a good (Spence), 237 Suicide, modes of (Legouest), 447 Sulphuric acid, poisoning by (Frerichs, ]Maukopff),402 — do. (ITeginbotham), 404 — false appearance of poisoning by, in in- fants (Luschka), 455 Surgery, report on, 178INDEX. •196 Surgical cases, medical trealmcnl of, 179 Suspended animal ion, rcsearelies on tlie treatment of (Richardson), 144 Suter, formation of bitartrate of potass, 408 Swayne, obstetric aphorisms, 338 Swinburne, J., indications for amputation in military sm-gcry, 235 Sycosis, on (Von Veicl), \ 7Gg Symaiiowski, on partial excision of ster- num, 284 Syme, on oesopliagotomy, 2"G — removal of scapula for tumour of bone, 222 — tumour of liard palate 275 Symes, C, pre))aration of lemon juice, 429 Sympatlictic nerve, cervical, results of sec- tion, complex (Bernard), 30 Syphilis, on (Lee, Hutchinson, Didav), 195 — on the natural history of (Diday), 64 — congenital (Pick, Forster), 67, 208 — constitutional (Hiigenberger, Zeissl, Jeitteles, Gunlz), 208'. — in jts manifestations as a constitutional disease (Mai ston), G5 — influence of Mediterranean climate upon (Marston), 65 — sulphurous tliermse of AixlaChapelle in (Reumont), 65 — of internal organs (Wilks), 63 — of the liver (Oppolzer), 64 — communication of, by inoculation of the blood (Pellizani), 67 — on tertiary (Didav), 66 — do. (Wilks), 195-6 — causing epilepsy with insanity (Duncan), 112 — sequelae of (Wilks), 197 — propagated by vaccination (?) (Glatter, Bohn)r468 — transmission of, among glass-blowers (Diday), 460 — effects of mercury in (Diday), 198 — obstinate, formula for (PedroUi), 415 Syphilitic affections of internal organs (Wilks), 63, 195 — do. authors on, 208 — of nervous system (Zambaco), 205 — enlargement of liver and spleen, nitric acid in (Budd), l7Gd — skin diseases, on (Von Veiel), 17G/< — deposits, mode of formation of (Von Veiel), 199 — do. character of (Von Veicl), 200 — infection, on renewed (Diday), 65 — eru|ition,on squamous (Zeissl), 68 — radcsyge (Faye and llebra), C8 Syphiloma, on (Wagner), 68, 208 Syphiloma of ihe nervous 6y»tem(Wugner), Szymannwski, new canula for tracheotomy. Sec, 278 Tabes dorsalis, on (Reinak), 85 — (Meryon, Kcmak), 304 — and progressive general paralysis, • (Westphal) 82 .Ticni.i, treatment of, especially by oil of male fern (Ogle, J. D.), 175 Tanner, cancer of female sexual organs, 338 Tannin and magenta, influence of, on blood-corpuscles (Roberts), 2 Tardieu, medico-legal study of abortion, 337 Taussig, two cases of Cesarean section, successful, 383 Taylor, C. F., on infantile paralysis, 336 Taylor, atrophic muscular paralysis suc- cessfully treated bv iodide of potasb, 120 — lara;e doses of nitrate of potash, effect of, 407 — and Wilks, cooling of body after death, 447 Teeth, syphilis of (Wilks), 203 Temperature of body after death (Taylor and Wilks), 417 Tenotomv, evils of, and substitute for (Biirwell), 330 Test types fur acuteness of vision (Snellen), 241 Testis, diseases of, authors on, 306 Tetanus (A^schenfcldt, Leyden, Tufnell, Wood), 193 — traumatic, curare unsuccessful, 98 Telzer, abnormal conditions of refraction, 254 Thadcn, Von, on colotoniy, 297 Thallium, eflects of, on animals (Lamy), 415 Therapeutics, general, report on, 441 Theremin, E., purulent coiijuuclivitis in the St. Petersburg Foundling, 254 Thiry, on the ammonia contents of the blood, urine, and expired air, 8 — and Meissner, digestion of albuminous substances, 12 Thomas, on sacro-iliac anchylosis, 362 Thompson, 11., practical maxims in litho- trity, 313 Thornau, A., phlegmon of face ending in pyainiia, 17i)i Tlioi nc, acute inversion of uterus, 387 — case of transfusion in post-partum h.-cmorrhage, recovery, 372 Throat, neuralgia and byperseslbesia of (Turck), 99INDEX. 497 Thrombosis and embolism, report on (Meissner), 136 Thyroid gland, authors on, 279 — Lebert on diseases of, 279 — enlarged, removal of (Voss, Wood), 279 Thyson, effects of raanufacture of bichro- mate of potass, 458 Tichborne, detection of cantliaridine, 436 Tillaux, P., on urethrotomy, 313 Tilt, on uterine therapeutics, 338 Tobacco, is smoking, a cause of cancer of the lip? (Lortet), 274 — influence of smoking on the pulse (Smith), 420 Tobold, on polypi of larynx, 280 Toudinson, tuberculosis of uterus, 388 Tommasi, progressive paralysis of tongue, &c., treated by Faradization, 121 Tomsa, part taken by origins of lymphatic vessels in nutrition and inflammation, 16 Tongue, authors on, 275 — superficial inflammation of, after eating bilberries (Renz), 176 — &c., progressive paralysis of, treated by Faradization (Tommasi), 121 Tonsil, removal of a cancer of (Demar- quay), 276 Tourniquet applied to extremities in cholera, &c. (Wise), 54 Toxicology and materia medica, report on, 401 Trachea and bronchi, syphilis of (^Vilks), 202 Tracheotomy, authors on, 278 — Roser on, 276 — mode of (Bryant, May), 279 Tracy, case of undeveloped uterus, 386 Transfusion of blood (Panum), 11 — (Demme, Braun), 212-13 — in anxmia from menorrhagia (Braun), 372 — in post-partum haemorrhage (llicks, Thorne), 371 — on the operation of (Hewitt), 373 Trapp, test for veratria (417) Traube, on the cause of colic pains, 175 — researches on febrile affections, 35 Treatment of suspended animation (Ri- chardson), 148 Trelat, fistula after a vvoinul of chest, 284 — on polyi)i of larynx, 280 Tremor, palhologv and treatment of (Rad- cliffe), 80 Trichina spiralis, propagation of, in man ■(Zenker), 463 Trichina disease, recent contributions to our knowledge of (Meissner), 171-3 Trillium pendulum, use of, 441 Triquet, lectures on diseases of the ear 272 Trismus algidus, recovery under cannabis indica (Fraser), 98 Troltsch, diagnosis of diseases of ear 272 Trousseau, on cysts and hydatids in the abdomen, 286 — on ozKna and its treatment, 149 — vertigo dyspeptica, 176 — and Marotte, on ataxic locomotrice pro- gressive, 83 Tubercular meningitis in adults, obscurity of early symptoms (Wilks), 91 Tuberculosis of uterus (Tomlinson), 388 — and insanity (Clouston), 110 Tuckvvell, effusions of blood around uterus, 338 Tufuell, J., on nicotine in tetanus, 193 Tufnell, on varicocele, 306 Tumours, authors on, 214 — of tlie abdomen, pulsating and aneuris- mal (llabershon), 135 Tttngel, C, chronic brain disease from syphdis, 208 Tiirck, L., mode of producing local an;es- thesia of fauces, 276 — laryngeal ulcers, 153 — on neuralgia and hypera:sthesia of the throat, 09 TurnbuU, W. M., measurement of fata! head, 347 Turner, on the doctrine of cellular pathology, 33 Turning, combined external and internal (Hicks), 378 Turun, on glycerine in pharmacy, 442 Typlioid,&c.,independent of faulty drainage (Christison), 456 Typhus fever, report on (Forster), 38 Ulcers, (Ulmer, Volkmann), 189 Ulmer, L., compendium of helcology, 189 — pemphigus acutus,case of, 176/t Ulrichand Wilms,cases of obdurator hernia 293 Umbilical cord, state of, not proof of livi birth (Maschka), 455 — hernia, authors on, 293 Urasmia, on (Petrotf), 176c Urea, on, as the cause of uremia, 176J — production of, from uric acid by con- tinuous electric current (Van Deen), 20 Urethra, diseases of, autliors on, 313 Urethral fever (Marx), 304 —treatment of (R:Cord, Long, Civiale". 305 Urethrotomy, statistics of internal (Maisoii- neuve), 313 Urine, ammonia contents of (Thirv) 11 32 ■INDEX. 498 Urine, albuminous, which follows interrup- tion of the blooil-strcam, 23 — in hydrophobia (lliiler), 97 — retention of, diagnosis and treatment (Holt), a07 — do. from cancer of vulva, operation (Moore), 311 Uriiioplasiy, auUiors on, 276 Uterus, affections of os and cervix of (Barnes, Tracy, Johert), 386 — action of, in parturition (Donkin), 350 — cervix of, in eiglitli month of pregnancy (Duncan), 350 — congenital absence of (Lissner), 384 — gravid, retroversion of (Ilardey), 353 — internal surface of, after delivery, (Duncan), 353 — malformation of (Haydon), 356 — obliteration of os, obstructing labour (Mattel), 362 — and ovaries, extirpation of (Clay), 393 — polvpus of (McClinti)ck), 389 — 'do. (Hicks, Ilegar), 390 — procidentia of (lliisty), 363 — retroflexion of ([■'reiind), 388 — rupture of (Heer, Hugenberger, NiS- mann, Olshausen), 374 — tuberculosis of (Tomlinson"*, 388 — undeveloped, case of (Tracy), 386 — versions of (Hewitt, McChnlock), 387 Vaccination, report on, 466 — benefit of (Angenstein), 467 — of cows (Goldoni), 467 — injurious effects from (Bulmerincq), 466 — methods of, in different countries, (Btdnierincq), 467 — re-, 2000 cases (VIeminex), 467 — syphilis from (Ricord, Clatter, Bohn), 468 — transmission of syphilis by, report on (Broca), 208 Vaccine matter from a horse aflfected with stomatitis (Bouley), 467 Vagina, tumours of (McClintoek), 394 — (Saesinger, Barnes), 395 — and vulva, authors on, 306 Vagus nerve and the heart (Goltz), 18 Valentin, spectroscope in detection of hlood-stains, 446 Valves, temporary insufficiency of the (Skoda), 129 Van Deen, changes external to the body agreeing with those which take jjlace within it, 30 — production of urea from uric acid by continuous electric curreirt, 29 Van J)cen, test for blood-stains, 443 Van Somereu and Miidge, fungus testis, trcpted by pot. iod., 300 Vanille ice, ill effects from eating (SchroflO, 466 Vanzetti, aneurism treated by digital com- pression, 210 — excision of os calcis, 325 Varicocele, authors on, 306 Varix, on operations for CMinkiewicz), 213 Veins, introduction of air into (Ore), 177 Velpeau, ulceration at margin of anus, 299 Veneinons reptiles, bites of, 437 Venereal disease, pathology and treatment of (lleder), 193 — history of, among the Chinese, 193 — See si/philis. Venereal excess inducing paralysis (Rus- sell), 90 Veratria, test for (Trapp), 417 Veratrnm viride, poLsoning by (Edwards), 417 Vertigo dyspeptica (Trousseau), 176 Verllac, J., poisoning by lucifer matches, 406 Vernenil, curious affection of the hand, 324 — operation for burn of, 324 — on immobility of the lower jaw, 275 — excision of knee from gunsliot, 234 — case of acute osteo-myelitis, 222 — on polypi of larynx, 280 — tumour of the parotid, 279 Vidal, ataxic locomotrice progressive, treated by nitrate of silver, 84 Vigouroux, influence of the movements of respiration on those of the iris, 31 Villemln, J. A., on benieralopia, 267 Vines, C., triatment of congenital hernia, 292 Viper, bite of, remarkable effects (Sou- beiran, Demeurat), 437 Vlrcliow, volume on tumours, 214 Vision, acuteness of, test tvpes for (Snellen), 241 — influence of age on (J. v. de Haan), 242 VIeminex, on revaccination, 467 Vogel, test for water in milk, 464 Vogt, catalepsy at Billingsliausen, as an endemic affection, 100 Voight, L., congenital absence of the radius, 336 Volllemier, treatment of collections of pus and blood by capillary puncture, 188 — urethrotomy from before backward, 313 Voit, on the cycle of nitrogen in the animal organism, 26 Volckmann, etiology of club-foot, 321 Volkmann, A. W., pliysiological researches in optics, 241 Volkmann, on the healing of ulcers under scabs, 190INDEX. 499 Voltolini, dissection of ear, 272 — diseases of labyrinth and auditory nerve, 272 Von Veiel, report of skin diseases at Canstatt, 1835—1861, 176/ Voss, almost total necrosis of lower jaw in a child, 222 — remoyal of enlarged thyroid, 279 Vulva and vagina, diseases of, authors on, 306 — cancer of, retention of urine in (Moore), 311 Wade, on the treatment of rheumatic fever, 63 Wagener, E., case of poisoning by phos- phorus, 404 Wagner, E., on syphiloma, 68, 208 — do. of the nervous system, 92 Waldenburg, diseases of the structure of plants, 5 Wales, aneurism of walls of left ventricle, 126 Walker, removal of polypus of larynx, 281 Wiilter, H., congenital sciatic hernia, 293 Walion, H., malignant disease of eye, 254 — retinal separation, puncture, 267 Ward, T. 0., dislocation of knee, 233 Warncke, poisoning by colchicum wine, fatal, 417 Wasting palsy, incipient, cured hy stiych- nia (Ueynolds), 86 — See Paralysix, progressive general. Waters, E. G., gunshot fractures of thigh treated conservatively, 223 Waters, remarkable case of lesion of medulla oblongata, 106 Watson, P. H., on a steel catheter, 313 Watson, radical cure of exomphalos in adult, 293 Weber, H., a contribution to the patho- logy of the crura cerebri, 90 Weber, 0., on urinoplasty, 276 Wecker, on iridodesis, 254 Weeks, G. B., on hospital gangrene, 190 Weil, H., new pharyngeal forceps, 276 Wells, S., statistics of ovariotomy, 391 — case of ovariotomy twice performed, 392 West, U., placenta praevia with twins, 363 — on puerperal diseases, 338 Westpbal, on tabes dorsalis and progres- sive general paralysis, 82 Wilibin, on elephantiasis of scrotum, 306 Widal, obstinate hiccough, &c,, cured by quinine, 104 Widerhofer, diseases of umbilicus, 338 Wildberger, J., lateral curvature of spine, 223 — on orthoptcdic surgeiy, 336 Wilks, S., 'large doses of nitrate of potash, effect of, 407 — on scarlet fever, 50 — syphilis of internal organs, 63, 195 — cases of tubercular meningitis in adults, 91 — and Taylor, cooling of body after death, 447 Williams, G. H., guide to study of eye diseases, 240 Williams, case of placenta prsevia, 371 Wilms and Ulrich, cases of obturator her- r.ia, 293 Winckel, F., temperature during and after labour, 347 Winckel, L., on fifteen cases of Cocsarean section, 382 Windsor, T., on the operation for ai-tificial pupil, 254 — on the use of the forceps in extraction of the lens, 255 Winterbothara, poisoning by morphia in a child, recovery, 431 Wirtinger, complete union of palate, 275 Wise, hemostatic treatment of cholera, hsemonhage, exhaustion, &c., 54 Witt, H. F., malformation of rectum, 298 — and Miiller, cases of gastric fistula, 176 Wolff, on osteoplasty, 184 — new treatment of stammering, 275 Women, diseases of, authors on, 337 Wood, J. A., on angular curvature of spine, 223 Wood, S., recovery from tetanus after divisiiin of int. saphenous nerve, 193 Wood, ruptures, radical cure of, 292-3 Workman, P. J., on the Calabar bean, 235 Wordsworth, J. C, pulsation of the art. cent, retince during faintness, 267 — the hot needle in nasvus, 214 Worm, paralyses from cold, 100 Worms, intestinal, influence of, on the course of malarious fever (Laval), 173 Wounds, report on, 187 Wundtrlich, progressive spinal paralysis cured by nitrate of silver, 96 — case of poisoning by nitric acid, 404 Xanthoxylon fraxineum, use of, 440 Yellow fever, epidemics of, in Bermuda (Smart), 53 Zambaco, diagnosis of syphilis of ncft vous system, 205INDEX, 500 Ziemssen and Krabler, on llie temperature in measles, 51 Zcissl, acute catarrh of bladder, 313 — atl'octioiis of lympliatic glands in consti- tutional syiihilis, 208 — treatment of iixvus by tartar emetic, 214 Zcissi, on squamous Bvplilliiic eniution, 68 — on the active principle of copaiva, 194 Zen'ger, on tlie detection of arsenic, 410 Zenker, trichina spiralis in man, 4C3 Zuradelli, contractions of the muscles of the arm, 118 LONDON' rniXTED BT J. T.. ADLAUD, BAIiTHOT.Oyi!^ Cr.OSI?.