DIAGNOSTIC SIGNS, OR SYMPTOMS, PRECEDING OR ACCOMPANYING DISEASES. (Continued from page 66). Heat at the pit of the stomach, and sour risings, constitute the heart- burn, arising from weakness of the stomach.—With pain in any internal part, gives reason to suspect inflammation to be proceeding to suppuration.— Internal heat, with cold limbs, in fevers, points out great danger. Hiccup, succeeding to considerable evacuations, shews much danger. If occurring in the progress of internal inflammation, gives reason to apprehend the approach of mortification. It is an alarming symptom in cases of suppression of urine; and in cases of strangulated rup- ture, shews great danger to exist. Lassitude, and real debility;, generally precede the other symptoms of fever; and languor, in children, should always excite vigilance in parents, and those who have the care of children. Legs, swelling of the—Where this occurs in a very slight degree, in persons rather advanced in years, and using but little exercise, is not to be regarded as an alarming circumstance. In persons beyond the middle stage of life, who are affected by difficulty of breathing, it may be considered as entirely depending on the dis- ordered state of the lungs, and as pointing out the neces- sity of exertions being made for their relief. Swelling of the legs, and failure of strength, should be considered as a warning that some important change in the system is taking place, perhaps tending to dropsy. Lips.—Eruptions on the lips, succeeded by scabs, in fevers, is a favourable symptom. Looseness occurring in cases of hectic fever, with night-sweats, shews danger. Matter discharged from the lungs, hectic fever being also present, is a mark of consumption. Matter, how- ever, of a purulent appearance, may be discharged from the lungs, and if without hectic fever, still consumption may not succeed, if very powerful means are employed. Menses when suppressed in consumption, no benefit will be derived from endeavours to procure their return ; their suppression being a symptom, not the cause of con- sumption.