108 Wills ought to be written clearly and distinctly. ing, that the man who, in such circumstances, neglects to secure his promised provision lor his adopted child, is guilty of a crime connected with every thing unthinking, ungenerous, and absurd. We have, perhaps, extended this discussion too far; but we were unwilling to divide the subject; and we have written so much, because we do not recollect to have seen the subject professedly treated. After what we have advanced, very little is necessary to demonstrate that it is of great importance. Wills ought to be written clearly and distinctly. We have said nothing yet of the embarrassments arising from wills being written in a confused manner. Whoever is in the least acquainted with law proceedings, must know that errors, and confused arrangements in wills, furnish a rich harvest to the gentlemen of the long robe. Much of this, unquestionably, proceeds from the cause we have already insisted upon, namely, the delay- ing the duty until we are sick, and must call in the assistance of those who may deceive us, until we are old and cannot recollect our various obligations, and until we are fretful, and cancel the good sense and discretion of a whole life, by the spleen of a moment. These are considerations which, we trust, will have their weight. We might add something, perhaps, in proof of the necessity of an early will, from the secrecy with which certain persons choose to conduct their affairs. A cir- cumstance occurred very lately, which places this argu- ment in a striking point of view. We allude to the act of parliament, which compelled the Bank to render up to the public the unclaimed money in their hands. One other argument only may be advanced. Although in the case of a person dying intestate, the law provides him with heirs, it is very seldom that the distribution of property in this way is consistent with justice, far less with the intentions of the deceased, had he been wise enough to provide a will. The law lays down a certain positive succession, which must apply to all cases alike, and cannot be guided by any individual circumstances. As to those persons who may be termed legacy-hunters, and who employ the best ,of their days in obsequious idleness, expecting that the will of their patron or friend must at last be in their favour, we purpose to consider their hopes and disappointments in another article.