Consolation for Ladies at the Turn of Life. 35 fully one-third of its nutritive qualities; if boiled fast, it loses nearly as much; but stewed gently, it loses least, and what it does lose, the liquor acquires; and this, thickened with a little meal, ground rice, Scotch barley, or pease and vegetables, affords a most wholesome food, and the family gets the nourishment of the whole meat at the least expence. Coals vary in their prices, according to local situation, circumstances, &c. But where coals are dear, coke, wood, turf, peat, are reasonable ; and for six months in the year, but little is required for coal or candles; for which latter article, in families of this description, oil is frequently used. Tea* and sugar are not included in the estimate, so that it must either be dispensed with, or saved out of the more necessary articles. The expence of each child is rated at Is. 9d. per week; and though a child in arms will not cost so much, the extra nourish- ment the mother requires, in giving suck, will be fully equivalent to it. There are other considerations which may conspire to ease the burthen, and make ends meet; of which every industrious couple will know, from ne- cessity, how to avail themselves. CONSOLATION FOR LADIES AT THE TURN OF LIFE. The cessation of the catamenial evacuations, is always regarded with a degree of dread by the female race—especially if they happen to be affected, for some years previously, with any chronic complaint. But, even if their health be ever so good, they have a secret appre- hension of the critical period—an apprehension which has, in all ages, been fostered by medical authority and observation. In these days of scrutiny and scepticism, the "turn of life" has been made the subject of enquiry, by M. de Chateauneuf, and the result is not in favour of the popular opinion—or, as it will now be called, preju- dice. T'^is author grounds his memoir on tables of mor- tality, furnished by the most respectable authorities, from which he draws the following conclusions. Between * Roasted corn, as a cheap, wholesome, and nutritious beverage, as a sub- stitute for coffee, and as preferable to tea, is an advantage much in favour of the working classes; indeed, it is a well-known fact, that it is prevalent at the breakfast-table of multitudes of the bettor order of society. F 2