54 Health and Content merit. a well-ventilated room, taking care, however, to avoid the draught of air. This will be found a more salutary mode of warming the body, than by the heat of fires. HEALTH AND CONTENTMENT. The effects of contentment upon the health both of body and mind, are sufficiently obvious to require parti- cular illustration; while the violent and distressing pas- sions of the mind are in the inverse ratio to the enjoy- ment either of mental tranquillity or corporeal repose. The instances, however, of those who impair their health by a severe exercise of their mental powers, are rare, compared to those who destroy it by the violence of their passions; which, when they become vehement and im- moderate, may be justly ranked among diseases them- selves, because they disorder the bodily health in various ways. The passions, doubtless, were given for wise and use- ful purposes; but they ought to be subjected to a strict course of discipline, that they may be ready to obey the will the moment they become rebellious; for if uncon- trouled, and left to themselves, they affect us as a tem- pest does the ocean, without our being able to counteract their pernicious influence. Fortunately, they may be regulated by education, by early restraint, or by un- wearied personal attention, founded on the full conviction of its necessity; the practicability of which has been proved in the instances of Augustus and Cornaro. The passions do not act with equal force on all. Their effects vary, according to the diversity of constitutions, both of mind and of body; and, even in the same individual, differ at different times. Happy, therefore, is the man whose temper is naturally good, and who has found means to correct its violence. It has been well observed, that " a contented mind is a perpetual feast;" and it has often been remarked, that persons destitute of ambition and avarice, are peculiarly likely to enjoy long life. These kind of people experience no regret for the past, nor anxiety for the future. In the full enjoyment of that tranquillity of soul, on which the happiness of our early years so much depends, they are strangers to those tor- ments of 'the mind which usually accompany more ad- vanced years, and by which the body is wasted and con- sumed.