"Tom" Paine on the Vellmv Fever. and anions: health}/ persons, does Hot communicate it to the neigh" bourhoodl 4t to those immediately around him: why then are we to suppose that it can be brought from the West Indies, a distance of more than a thousand miles, since we see it cannot be carried from one town to another, nor from one part of another at home?—Is it in the air ?—This question on the case requires a minute examination. In the first place, the difference between air and wind is the same as between a stream of water and a standing water. A stream of water, is water in motion; and wind, is air in motion. In a gentle breeze, the whole body of air, as far as the breeze extends, moves at the rate of seven or eight miles an hour; in a high wind, at the rate of seventy, eighty, or an hundred miles an hour: when we see the shadow of a cloud gliding on the surface of the ground, we see the rate at which the air moves, and it must be a good trotting horse that can keep pace with the shadow, even in a gentle breeze; con- sequently a body of air, that is in and over any place of the same extent as the affected part of a city may be, will, in the space of an hour, even at the moderate rate I speak of, be moved seven or eight miles to leeward, and its place in and over the city Will be supplied by a new body of air coming from a healthy part, seven or eight miles distant the contrary way, and then on in continual sue* cession. The disorder, therefore, is not in the air, considered in its natural state, and never stationary. This leads to another consi- deration of the case. Paine's Theory of the Cause of Yellow Fever. " An impure efHuvia, arising from some cause in the ground, in the manner that fermenting liquors produce an effluvia near its sur- face, that is fatal to life, will become mixed with the air contiguous to it, and as fast as that body of air moves off, it will impregnate every succeeding body of air, however pure it may be, when it ar- rives at the place. " The result from this state of the case is, that the impur6 air, or vapour, that generates the yellow fever, issues from the earth, or ground raised on the filthy and muddy bottom of the river, and which impregnates every fresh body of air that comes over the place, in like manner as air becomes heated when it approaches or passes over fire, or becomes offensive in smell when it approaches or passes over a body of corrupt vegetable or animal matter, in a state of putrefaction. " The muddy bottom of rivers contains great quantities of im- pure, often inflammable air (carburretted hydrogen gas), injurious ♦o life ; and which remains entangled in the mud till let loose froni thence by some accident. This air is produced by the dissolution and decomposition of any combustible matter falling into the water, and sinking into the mud." "Tom" Paine here illustrates his observations, with the account of several experiments made in the presence Y