Cramp—Ulcers, fyc. 477 strong infusion of the leaves applied externally, will fre- quently remove them. A fine piece of silk thread waxed, or a hair tied round them, and gradually tightened, by way of cutting off all nourishment from the body, will frequently cause them to fall off. Should they be large, livid and irritable, they may be extirpated with a sharp knife; as stimulating applications in this case are generally found to produce unpleasant sores. CRAMP, as here expressed, is a well known muscular action affect- ing the stomach and the legs from various causes. When cramp seizes the stomach, it is attended with flatulence and excruciating pain. Errors in diet, and the other ordinary acting powers improperly regulated, such as air, exercise, rest and motion, &c. may produce it, as well as diseases, gout for instance, when its termination is not unfrequently fatal. Treatment of Cramp of the Stomach. Brandy and water, madeira and sherry, must be taken immediately when cramp attacks the stomach; and to those liable to a repetition of similar attacks, a generous diet ought to be adopted and persevered in. Cramp in the Legs. This, in females, is generally a consequence of the condition of the womb during the last months of preg- nancy from its pressure on the great nerves leading to the extremities; this comes and goes, and is only to be effec- tually relieved by parturition. Cramps in all cases may frequently be prevented by pressure and tight bandages. Friction with the warm hand, or warm cloths, and spirituous and volatile embro- cation, such as hartshorn or ammonia, are of service. The persons troubled with cramps in the leg should wear woollen stockings in bed. Laudanum may be taken to the extent of thirty or forty drops with half a drachm of aether, let the seat of the disease be where it may, parti- cularly where the stomach is affected. There are a variety of other remedies in slight affections of cramp, known almost to every one. ULCERS, OR ULCERATED SORES—BAD LEGS. Ulcers are degenerated states of sores, from having been neglected, or improperly treated, to which many of