550 Hutai ©conomp.—-No. VII. THE RURAL INDUSTRY AND ECONOMY OF TEIE CHINESE; PROPOSED AS AN EXAMPLE TO ALL THE OTHER NATIONS OF THE UNIVERSE. (By the Abbe Raynal) . Rural Varieties of China, fyc. In a country where the government is so ancient, we may every where expect to find deep traces of the con- tinual force of industry. Its roads have been levelled with the exactest care, and, in general, have no greater declivity than is necessary to facilitate the watering of the land, which they consider, with reason, as one of the greatest helps in agriculture ; they have but few, even of the most useful trees, as their fruits would rob the corn of its nourishment. There are gardens, it is true, in- terspersed with flowers, fine turf, shrubberies, and foun- tains ; but however agreeable these scenes might be to an idle spectator, they seem to be concealed and removed from the public eye, as if the owners were afraid of shew- ing how much their amusements had encroached upon the soil, that ought to be cultivated for the support of life. They have no parks or extensive forests, which are not near so serviceable to mankind by the wood they furnish, as prejudicial by preventing agriculture; and while they contribute to the pleasure of the great, by the beasts that range in them, prove a real misfortune to the husband- man. In China, the beauty of a country-seat consists in its being happily situated, surrounded with an agreeable variety of cultivated fields^ and interspersed with trees, planted irregularly, and with some heaps of a porous stone, which at a distance have the appearance of rocks or mountains. The hills are generally cut into terraces, supported by dry walls. Here there are reservoirs, constructed with great ingenuity, for the reception of rain and spring water. It is not uncommon to see the bottom, summit, and declivity of a hill, watered by the same canal, by means of a num- ber of engines of a simple construction, which save manual labour, and perform with two men what could not be done with a thousand in the ordinary way. These heights commonly yield three crops in a year. They arc first sown with a kind of radish* which produces an oil; then 4 I!