Housekeeping and Husbandry. 80 put a portion of this into the tub where the articles are steeping. To remove Iron-moulds from Linen. Take some crystallized citric acid (acid of lemons), pound a small quantity to a tine powder, and apply it to the spot; drop some hot water on, and rub it in, upon a pewter plate over a stove, until the oxide of the iron unites with the acid, when a little warm water washes all out. For Washing Chintz, so as to preserve its Gloss and Beauty. Take two pounds of rice, and boil it in two gallons of water till soft; when done, pour the whole into a tub: let it stand till about the warmth you in general use for coloured linens ; then put your chintz in, and use the rice instead of soap; wash it in this till the dirt appears to be out; then boil the same quantity as above, but strain the rice from the water, and mix it in warm, clear water. Wash in this till quite clean; afterwards rinse it in the water you have boiled your rice in, and this will answer the end of starch, and no dew will affect it, as it will be stiff as long as you wear it. If a gown, it must be taken to pieces ; and when dried, be careful to hang it as smooth as possible; after it is dry, rub it with a sleek stone, but use no iron. To remove Ink or Iron Spots of long standing. Where spots from iron or ink are of too long standing to be readily removed, a more chemical process is required. Take sulphuret of potass, or muriate of tin ; apply it to the spot, and let it remain about five minutes, when it must be washed out. Then apply some acid of lemon to it. The older the spots, the oftener this process must be repeated. Ink spots in linen, may be taken out by melting part of a mould candle, and dipping the spot in it before the linen is put into the washing-tub. To remove Stains occasioned by Acid Vegetables, and Alka- line Substances. The first are mostly occasioned by oranges, and the like, upon coloured stuffs. They may be destroyed by a mixture of alcohol and liquid ammonia. Those from