Housekeeping and Husbandry. impossibility to dislodge it. The Editor claims the credit of having first suggested .the importance of this construc- tion of these utensils. " Take care that the lids fit as close as possible, that the broth, soup, and sauces, &c. may not waste by eva- poration. They are good for nothing unless they fit tight enough to keep the steam in, and the smoke out. Stewpans and saucepans should be always bright on the upper rim, where the fire does not burn them: but to scower them all over, is not only giving the cook needless trouble, but wearing out the vessels. Cultivate habits of regularity and cleanliness, &c. in all your business, which you will then get through easily and comfortably. T do not mean the restless spirit of Molidusta, " the Tidy One," who is always frisking about in a whirlpool of bustle and confusion; and is always dirty, under pretence of being always cleaning. Lean juicy beef, mutton, or veal, form the basis of broth: procure those pieces which afford the most and the richest succulence, and as fresh killed as possible. Stale meat will make your broth grouty and bad tasted, and fat meat is only wasted. This only applies to those broths which are required to be perfectly clear: we shall show hereafter, that fat and clarified drippings may be so combined with vegetable mucilage, as to afford, at the small cost of one penny per quart, a nourishing and pa- latable soup, fully adequate to satisfy appetite, and support strength: this will open a new source to those benevolent housekeepers who are disposed to relieve the poor, and will show the industrious classes how much they have it in their own power to assist themselves, and rescue them from being objects of charity, dependent on the precarious bounty of others, by teaching them how they may obtain a cheap, abundant, salubrious, and agreeable aliment for themselves and families. This soup has the advantage of being very easily and very soon made, with no more fuel than is necessary to warm a room; those who have not tasted it, cannot imagine what a salubrious, savoury, and satisfying meal is produced by the judicious combination of cheap homely ingredients.—(Cook's Oracle).