To make various Hard Confections. 241 one ounce; sugar, one pound; mucilage of gum arabic, a sufficient quantity: anodyne, pectoral and enimana- gogue. Refined Juice.—Spanish liquorice, four pounds; gum arabic, two pounds; water, enough; dissolve, strain, evaporate gently to a soft extract; roll into cylinders, cut into lengths; and polish by rubbing them together in a box : expectorant, in coughs. 2. Spanish liquorice, carpenters' glue, of each an equal quantity ; water, a sufficient quantity. Cachou a la Canelle.— Gatechu, three ounces; cinna- mon, one drachm and an half; oil of cassia, five drops; sugar, fourteen ounces ; mucilage of gum tragacanth. Black Pectoral Lozenges.—Extract of liquorice, sugar, of each, ten ounces ; gum tragacanth, decorticated rfweet almonds, of each, six ounces; mucilage of quince-seed made with rose water, a sufficient quantity; dissolve, strain, and evaporate. Pate de Reglisse Noir.—Refined liquorice, eight ounces; gum arabic, two pounds; sugar, one pound;. water, a sufficient quantity ; dissolve and evaporate till it forms a very thick syrup; add Florentine orrice root and elecam- pane, of each half an ounce; essence of cedrat, a few drops; put into ten moulds ; to be dried in a stove. Pate Blanche de Reglisse.—From the roots of liquorice, in the same manner as Pat6 de Guimauve. Pectoral. Ipecacuanha Lozenges.—Ipecacuanha, half an ounce; sugar, two pounds; mucilage of gum tragacanth, a suffi- cient quantity : make four hundred and eighty lozenges, containing each half a grain of ipecacuanha: expectorant, used in coughs, also stomachic. Orrice Lozenges (Violet Lozenges).—Florentine orrice root and gum arabic, equal parts; liquorice root, six drachms; sugar, one pound eight ounces; gum tragacanth, a sufficient quantity. Lemon Drops.—Sugar, one pound, very finely pow- dered ; dissolve one half along with salt of sorrel, three drachms, in the smallest quantity of water; as soon as it. boils add the other half of the sugar; and essence of lemon, eight drops; drag it out immediately with a crooked wire in drops upon a slab; concrete acid of lemons, or acid of tartar may be used instead of the salt of sorrel. Steel Lozenges.—Sugar, three pounds eight ounces ; iron filings, or rust of iron, eight ounces; cinnamon, two ji h 2