271 THE PROCESS FOR MAKING SPRUCE-BEER *. BY CA.PT. JAMES COOK. <c We at first made it of a decoction of the spruce leaves; but, finding- that this alone made the beer too astringent, we afterwards mixed with it an equal quantity of the tea plant (a name it obtained in my former voyage, from our using it as tea then, as we also did now) which partly destroyed the astringency of the other, and made the beer exceedingly palatable, and esteemed by every one on board. We brewed it in the same manner as spruce-beer, and the process is as follows: first, make a strong decoc- tion of the small branches of the spruce and tea plants, by boiling them three or four hours, or until the bark w ill strip with ease from off the branches; then take them out £ti the copper, and put in the proper quantity of molasses, ten gallons of which are sufficient to make a ton, or two. hundred and forty gallons of beer; let this mixture justboil; then put it into the casks, and to it add an equal quan- tity of cold water, more or less, according to the strength, of the decoction, or of your taste: when the whole is milk-warm, put in a little grounds of beer, or yeast, if you have it, or any thing else that will cause fermentation, and in a few days the beer will be fit to drink. After the casks have been brewed in two or three times, the beer will generally ferment itself, especially if the weather is warm. As I had inspissa ted juice of wort on board, and could not apply it to a better purpose, we used it, together with molasses or sugar, to make these two arti- cles go farther. For of the former I had but one cask, and of the latter little to spare for this brewing. Had I known how well this beer would have succeeded, and the great use it was of to the people, I should have been better provided. Indeed, I was partly discouraged by an experiment made during my former voyage, which did not succeed then, owing, as I now believe, to some mismanagement. * As the « Cottage Physician and Family Adviser,' is not limited, and that every thing that contributes to preserve the health of mariners, is of the utmost importance to a commercial nation, we make no apology for laying the above, method of making an wholesome anti-scorbutic beverage before our readers, which produced such good effects among the men on board his Majesty's ship the Resolution, during her voyage round the v/orlrh >