On Bathing generally. 257 new warm and cold sea-baths on the beach, near High- street, are also commodiously fitted up. Passing- Eastbourne, Bognor, Little Hampton, Worth- ing, &c. places of minor consequence, though all pos- sessing proportionate degrees of convenience, and where the air is pure and salubrious, the country agreeable and romantic, it may not be irrelevant, before we notice places of greater resort, to lay before our readers some practical observations on SEA-BATHING AND SEA-AIR*. Sea-air is prescribed by physicians in a variety of complaints, in consequence of its being considered of a more healthy nature than that on land; though, in its component parts, it is not known to possess a greater quantity of oxygen, on which the salubrious principle depends. It is, nevertheless, acknowledged to be a most powerful and valuable remedy, and is resorted to with the happiest success against most cases of debility. As a discutient (substances .which possess the power of repelling or resolving tumours), the peculiar power of sea-salt and sea-water is well known to be attended with considerable advantage, when judiciously applied. On Bathing generally, but more particularly under a restorative pomt of view, fyc. As a salutary gymnastic, bathing is held in high esti- mation ; and as a pleasurable and agreeable recreation, its votaries, during the summer season, are numerous and constant, wherever opportunities are afforded for its free and uninterrupted exercise. Baths are distinguished into hot and cold, with inter- mediate modifications, and different modes of applying them ; and are either natural or artificial. The natural hot-baths are formed of the water of hot springs, of which there are many in different parts of the world, especially in those countries where there are, or evidently have been, volcanoes. The artificial hot-baths consist of water, either fresh or salt, in its natural degree of heat; or they may be made cold by art—as by a mixture of nitre and sal ammoniac, &c. * For these excellent directions in sea, and various other kinds of baths, and for the plain and important advice laid down in them, we acknowledge our ob- ligation to the " New Domestic Medical Manual," by J. S. Forsyth ; pub- lished by Sherwood and Co. l'aternoster-row; to which source we have no hesitation in refcring all who may have, occasion to consult the catalogue of human infirmities, with a view to their alleviation. K k 2