57 Causes which prevent Sleep. bent, by which they are more at ease. When tired in one posture, the body should afterwards assume that position most favourable to those limbs or parts which have been particularly exercised. Valangin (on Diet, p. 288) recommends lying on the right side, on first going to bed, particularly while there is yet any food in the stomach; but, after the first nap, or when the stomach is empty, to lie a little on the left side, changing postures when necessary; and every time a person awakes, to stretch himself in bed, to give freer transit to the circulation of the blood. Dr. Franklin recommends the limbs being placed so as not to bear inconveniently hard upon one another; as, for instance, the joints of the ancles; for though a bad position may at first give but little pain, and be hardly noticed, yet a continuance of it will render it less tolera- ble, and the uneasiness may come on during sleep, and may disturb the imagination. In cold weather the arms should be under the clothes, and above them in warm; and care should be taken not to fold them round the head. It is imprudent to hide the head almost entirely under the bed-clothes. We ought to sleep with our mouth shut; as, besides other incon- veniences attending a contrary practice, the teeth are liable to injury from it; for the air continually passing in and out between them, hurts, and by degrees renders them less firm in their sockets; it also tends to consume, unnecessarily, the moisture of the mouth and throat, consequently they become too dry, which is always un- pleasant, and in cold weather may occasion sore throats People should never sleep in a sitting posture, unless for a forty ivink nap after a meal. Causes which prevent Sleep. Sleep may be prevented by improper diet and bad digestion, violent emotions of the mind, &c. Drinking of tea, coffee, and any thin or weak liquor, immediately before going to bed, will, with many people, retard sleep. A full stomach occasions restless nights; and that difficulty of going to sleep, so often ascribed to the va- pours, is generally owing to crudities which are undi- gested, and not carried off by proper exercise. Whatever therefore interferes with the digestive functions, must injure sleep. The Chinese, who have paid particular attention to the i