Dr. Budiaii. on Cleanliness. 147 diseases to which they were liable, will see the propriety of such laws. It is remarkable that, in most eastern countries, clean- liness makes a great part of their religion. The Maho- metan, as well as the Jewish religion, enjoins various bathings, washings and puriiications. No doubt these were designed to represent inward purity; but they are at the same time calculated for the preservation of health. However whimsical these washings may appear to some, few things would appear more to prevent diseases than a proper attention to many of them. Were every person, for example, after handling a dead body, visiting the sick, &c. to wash before he went into company, or sat down to meat, he would run less hazard either of catching the infection himself, or communicating it to others. Frequent washing not only removes the filth and sordes which adhere to the skin, but likewise promotes the per- spiration, braces the body, and enlivens the spirits. Even washing the feet tends greatly to preserve health. The sweat and dirt with which these parts are frequently co- vered, cannot fail to obstruct their perspiration. This piece of cleanliness would often prevent colds and fevers. Were people careful to bathe their feet and hands in warm water at night, after being exposed to cold or wet through the day, they would seldom experience any of the fatal effects which often proceed from these causes. A proper attention to cleanliness is no where more ne- cessary than on ship-board. If epidemical distempers break out there, no one can be safe. The best way to prevent them, is to take care that the whole company be cleanly in their clothes, diet, &c. When infectious dis- eases do break out, cleanliness is the most likely means to prevent their spreading. Above all things, the clothes, bedding, &c. of the sick, ought to be carefully washed, and fumigated with brimstone, or the like. Infection will lodge a long time in dirty clothes, and will after- wards break out in the most terrible manner. In places where great numbers of sick people are kept, cleanliness ought most religiously to be observed. The very smell in such places is often sufficient to make one sick. It is easy to imagine what eftect that is likely to have upon the diseased. A person in perfect health has a greater chance to become sick, than a sick person has to get well, in an hospital or infirmary where cleanliness is neglected. u 2