172 Organic Defects. irrelative combinations, to name each half note without a mistake. When I mentioned this to that excellent organ player, Mr. Charles Wesley, he said, " At the age of 20, I could do it myself—but 1 can't now." He was then in his 55th year. About the same time, the palate is no longer contented with being employed as a mere shovel to the stomach; and as it finds its master becomes every day more difficult to please, learns to be a more watchful purveyor. After 40, the strongest people begin to talk about being bilious, or nervous, &c. &c; the stomach will no longer do its duty properly, unless the food offered to it is perfectly agreeable to it; when offended, indigestion brings with it all that melancholy depression of the animal spirits, which disables a man from either thinking with precision, or acting with vigour, during the distressing suspension of the restorative process—arise all those miseries of mind and body, which drive fools to get drunk, and make madmen commit suicide. Without due attention to diet, &c. the third period of life is little better than a chronic disease. As our assimilating powers become enfeebled, we must endeavour to entertain them with food so prepared, as to give them the least trouble, and the most nourishment*. In the proportion that our food is restorative, and properly digested, our bodies are preserved in health and strength, and all our faculties continue vigorous and perfect. If it is unwholesome, ill-prepared, and indi- gestible, the body languishes, and is exhausted even in its youth; its strength and faculties daily decrease, and it sinks beneath the weight of the painful sensations attendant on a state of decay. Would to Heaven that a cook could help our stomachs as much as an optician can our eyes! our existence would be as much more perfect than it now is, as our sight is superior to our other senses. " The vigour of the mind decays with that of the body; and not only humour and invention, but even judgment and resolution, change and languish with ill constitution of body and of health.' —Sir William Temple. * " In proportion as the powers of the stomach are weak, so ought we to diminish the quantity of our food, and take care that it he as nutritive and as easy of digestion as possible."—Abernethy's Surgical Observations, p. 67.