Walls, Waters, and Watering-Places. 256 eighty-five. The reputation of the Wells being thus esta- blished, they soon became the resort of invalids; and Lord Abergavenny having an estate in the neighbourhood, exerted himself to provide proper accommodations for such as might be induced to visit them. The springs were cleaned out and scoured ; and during the summer season the neighbouring villages, and even Tunbridge town, although about six miles distant, were crowded with invalids. Buildings gradually arose in the imme- diate vicinity, and improvements were adopted to render them agreeable and convenient equally to the votaries of health and pleasure. From the experience made with these waters, they have been found to be composed of steely particles, marine salts, an oily matter, an ochrous substance, a volatile vitriolic spirit, too subtle to be analysed, and a simple fluid. Tunbridge water is excellently adapted to invigorate a relaxed constitution, to promote digestion, and to pro- duce a cheerful flow of spirits. In nervous and female complaints, it is highly recommended. Caution, how- ever, is necessary in their exhibition. A quarter of a pint for weak and delicate persons to begin with, which may be increased to half a pint or more; and this should be taken in equal draughts, at intervals of twenty minutes. Persons whose constitutions are more strong, may take double the quantity; still it is always advisable to commence with the smallest dose, gradually increas- ing it, and diminishing it towards the end of the dose, in the same proportion. To give the waters a chance of producing beneficial effects, they should be combined with a due degree of exercise and temperance. HASTINGS. The bathing-machines here, which are thirty in number, stand to the westward of the town, close to the parade, on which is a small building called the bathing-room. A fine level sand at low water extends for a great dis- tance, and the shore has such a gentle ascent, that the bathing is safe at any time of the tide. The sea also is perfectly clear and free from weeds, and every thing likely to inconvenience the bather. The old warm-baths are situated at the west end of the promenade, and under efficient management. The