Secrets of Trade. 68 drachm of the acetate of potass into a phial, with a lew drops of some fragrant oil, and twenty drops of sulphuric acid. THIEVES' VINEGAR, OR MARSEILLES VINEGAR, is a pleasant solution of essential oils and camphor, in vinegar. The Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia has given a for- mula for its preparation^ under the title of "Acetum Aro- maticum" (Aromatic Vinegar). The repute of this pre- paration, as a means of preserving health from the attacks of contagious fevers, is said to have arisen from the con- fession of four thieves, who, during the plague at Mar- seilles, plundered the dead bodies with perfect security, and who, upon being arrested, stated, on condition of being spared, that the use of aromatic vinegar had pre- served them from the influence of contagion. On this account, it is sometimes called c< Vinaigre des Quatre Voleurs." The French codex has a preparation of this kind, consisting of an acetic infusion of various aromatic herbs and camphor, which is termed "Acetum Aromaticum Alliatum" sen Antisepticum, vulgo "des Quatre Voleurs." bailey's itch ointment. This is a very complicated combination; containing nitre, alum, sulphate of zinc, and cinnabar, made into an ointment with olive oil and lard, and perfumed with the essential oils of anise seed, origanum, and lavender, and coloured with alkanet root. The Indians use an ointment in inveterate itch, which is said to prove very successful, and consists of finely-powdered cocculus lndicus, mixed with a little castor-oil. BALSAM of honey, is the tincture of benzoin, or Benjamin, or that of Tolu. BALSAM OF H0REH0UND (FORD's). This nostrum may very properly be classed under the present head. It consists of a watery infusion of hore- hound and liquorice root, with double the proportion of proof spirit, or brandy; to which is then added, opium, camphor, benzoin, squills, oil of aniseed, and honey. BALSAM OF LIQUORICE, PECTORAL. The proprietor of this nostrum gravely affirms, that a fluid ounce and a half of it contains the virtues of a whole pound of liquorice root; but upon investigation, it will