N. Attention to Dogs during Hot Weather. 339" \Vith respect to cauterising the bitten part, we do not place so much reliance upon it; the application of nitri© acid, or similar articles, in our opinion, cannot have the same influence in arresting the progress, beyond mo- mentarily, of so subtle a matter as the hydrophobic virus. It may sear the mouths of the absorbents, and prevent the poison from being immediately taken up by them; but as soon as the parts slough, and the subtle virus again escapes, the absorbents being rendered more sensible to their own action, from being confined, or temporarily blunted, they now, when set at liberty, are capable of increased action—the virus, consequently, not being an- nihilated, is more likely to be carried into the system. Excision of the part, and the treatment here recom- mended, present none of these uncertainties; and, as far as hitherto it has been adopted, has invariably proved successful. Much has been said about the cause of hydrophobia, which we equally believe to be as wide from truth as the: means of cure hitherto from certainty. Among these, are> food of a highly putrid nature—then what animal lives upon aliment of this description more constantly and more abundantly than hogs? Corrupted and unwholesome water is also assigned—but do we not see dogs, in general, prefer the filthiest stagnant pools to the purest waters ? Hot weather again is urged, although it by no means appears that canine madness is so prevalent among dogs in warm climates as in cold ones. These may occa- sionally be concomitant causes, but are by no means those on which the disease is said to depend. It appears, therefore, more probably, to be a specific contagion, produced.by causes yet unknown, and propagated among these animals from one to the other, by a peculiarity congenial with their nature. Attention to Dogs during Hot Weather. Why the heat of the weather appears to be more op- pressive to quadrupeds, particularly to dogs, and those of the lower species, is their greater , proximity to the ground, where there is scarcely felt the least current of air; and this, added to the heat of the surface, has con- siderable influence over the arterial action of animals, whose stature and conformity is not so advantageous as those of the higher class. Leaving, however, these phy- siological speculations for the present, we would strongly