354 Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. waters; as they will either prove beneficial or detrimen- tal, according to the mode of taking them. The resident physicians now in Cheltenham, are Dr. Jenner, Dr. Jameson, Dr. Boisragon, Dr. Christie, Dr, Faulkener, Dr. Coley, and Dr. Newell; some of whom it will be prudent to consult, before recourse is had to the use of the waters. The King's Well. In 1781, Mr. Skillicorne built a mansion for the late Earl of Fauconberg, (who, for many years, drank the waters with great benefit), at a small distance to the west of the Spa, or old well, on an eminence commanding an extensive and beautiful landscape. When Their Majesties honoured Cheltenham with a visit, they occupied this house, which was called Bay's Hill Lodge; and, probably in compliment for the use of it, the King, before his de- parture, ordered a well to be sunk, to procure a supply of fresh water for domestic purposes. At the depth of fifty- two feet, however, a mineral water was discovered, which, on examination, proved to be similar to the old well. A pump was accordingly placed in it; and it was opened, with some necessary accommodations for the use of the company; but whether it was from prejudice or reason, it was much less drunk than the Spa-water. In this well the sulphur was said to be more predominant, and the volatile particles still less: but the effects were nearly the same, and one advantage was gained by its discovery; there never will be a deficiency of water for the drinkers, which before was often the case. This house is now pulled down. Tlie Orchard Well, r Has obtained that name from its situation at the top of a field of fruit-trees. It is covered over with a square pump-room of brick, and was dug, in the year 1807, twenty-four feet deep in blue clay, to supply the defi- ciency of water at the old well, from which it is not more than a hundred yards distant. Although the rise of the water in this well was known to be ten feet, yet it was drank so low in 1808 and 1809, as to become muddy, and its transparency is sometimes affected by heavy rains; but at present it supplies near two hundred drinkers with a pure water, which sparkles a little on being poured from one glass to another. The impression it makes upon the palate is not unlike