Exercise and Dispass. 62 are not unanimous. Some reeonnnend early in the morn- ing, when the stomach is empty, and body refreshed with sleep; but many cannot bear to take exercise when lasting; and consequently this does not hold uniformly good. It is generally admitted, that between breakfast and dinner, when the weather is not too hot, is an excel- lent time for active exercises in the open air. It is cerr tainly injudicious to take a great deal of exercise imme- diately after so heavy a meal as dinner usually is, in this country; at the same time, during the summer season, the dinner is frequently earlier and lighter; consequently, at that period, persons may take exercise in the evening as well as the morning. Dr. Franklin observes, in his " Essay on the Art of procuring Pleasant Dreams," that exercise should precede meals, not immediately follow them; the first promotes, the latter, unless moderate, obstructs digestion. Darwin justly remarks, that in sum- mer, weak people cannot continue too long in the open air, if it can be done without fatigue; and in winter, they should go out several times in a day, for a few minutes, using the cold air like a cold bath, to invigorate and render them more hardy. It is well known, that violent exercise is more neces- sary in cold than in warm climates, and is peculiarly essential during the winter season, for promoting perspi- ration, as the best defence against outward cold, &c. The quantity of exercise differs as materially as the time ; and, indeed, it must necessarily vary according to the same circumstances. Dr. Cheyne, in his " Essay on Health," observes, that the valetudinarian, and the stu- dent, ought to have stated times for riding or walking, and that in good air. Three hours at least should be allotted for the former, and two for the latter ; the one half before dinner, and the other half, in the summer season, in the evening ; the first to beget an appetite, the second to help on digestion, and to promote sleep. Exercise, however, at all seasons of the year, should be proportioned to the powers. For the weak and infirm, it is better they should take three short walks than one long one. Not only is nothing gained by over exertion, but the rest that follows does not refresh, and sleep often cannot be obtained. Advice to Mothers and Nursery Maids, &>c. It is of the utmost importance, as regards the health of children, at all delicate, that they be not suffered to