mi Prescriptions. *„.* If the stomach should reject the powder, the dose must be repeated as soon as the sickness goes off. When it has been upon the stomach about two hours, the strong cathartic bolus above mentioned should be given, and its operation assisted by frequent draughts of green tea, or, if necessary, by a solution of Epsom salts, in water. Until the worm comes away, which commonly happens on the same day, the patient is to take nothing but broth; if, however, the worm should not be discharged, either wholly or in part, the powder is to be repeated with the same regimen, the next day. Covjhage Electuary. Take cowhagelialf an ounce. Simple syrup, enough to make an electuary. A tea spoonful for a dose, every morning, for three times. Bancroft. » (In that species of worm resembling earth-worms). The above dose is for a child two or three years old. To adults a triple quantity may be prescribed. After the third time of taking the medicine, a dose of rhubarb is usually given. Some practitioners direct the medicine to be taken at bed-time, and worked off in the morning, with some mild purgative. It is said to be a perfectly safe remedy, and that two or three doses generally suffice. Camphorated Enema, or Clyster. Take Camphor, - 1 drachm. Olive oil, - - 2 ounces. Make an injection, every third night, at hed-time, for three times repeated ; then every other night, to the fourth time, if necessary.—Fowler, (in maw- worms) found this clyster a more efficacious remedy against the violent itching and other painful symptoms of the anus, occasioned by these worms, than any he had ever met with. He adds, that it generally gives some immediate ease ; stays all night, without any inconvenience ; comes away in the morning, some- times with a natural stool, sometimes without; seldom brings away any live animals, but sometimes dead ones. Acute Rheumatism. Take The resin of guiacum, - - 3 grains. Cream of tartar, - 1 drachm. Mix and make a powder; to be taken at bed-time in a glass of wine-whey. Mackenzie. Or, Take Resin of guiacum, - \ drachm. Nitre, - - - 1 scruple. To be taken at bed-time in gruel.