HISTORY OF HYDROPHOBIA ; OR, DISEASE PRODUCED BY THE BITE OF RABID ANIMALS, It is probably not generally known, that this heart- Tending malady may be communicated to the human sub- ject from the bites of cats, rats, foxes, cows, and other animals not of the canine species, to which the infection has been previously communicated. It is, however, from the bites of the dog that most frequent cases of hy- drophobia occur, although circumspection ought not to be solely directed to this faithful animal. It is equally necessary to guard against cats, and other quadrupeds of the feline or canine breed. The records of medicine furnish no instances of the bite of a person affected com- municating the disease to another: and all the stories of the people labouring under hydrophobia barking like a dog, and attempting to bite those who approach them, are without foundation. Symptoms of Hydrophobia. . In the human species the general symptoms attendant on the bite of a mad dog, or other rabid animal, are, at some indefinite period, and occasionally long after the fatten part seems well, a slight pain felt in it, now and then attended with itching, but generally resembling a rheumatic pain: then come on wandering pains, with uneasiness and heaviness, disturbed sleep and frightful dreams, accompanied with great restlessness, sudden starting, and spasms, sighing, anxiety, and a love for solitude. These symptoms continue daily to increase, pains begin to shoot from the bitten part, extending up. to the throat, with a tightness and sensation of choking, and a horror and dread at the sight of water, and other liquids, with loss of appetite, and trembling. The per- son, however, is capable of swallowing any solid sub- stance with tolerable ease ; but the moment that any thing in a fluid form is brought in contact with his lips, it occasions him to start back with much dread and horror, although he labours perhaps under great thirst at the time. A vomiting of bilious matter comes on in the course of the disease, and an intense hot fever ensues, attended with continual watching, great thirst, dryness and roughness of the tongue, hoarseness of the voice, and the discharge of a viscid saliva from the mouth, which the patient is constantly spitting out. His respiration is