Analyse of Beer, &c. 4tU in part a pleasant bitter. Sugar is likewise a keeper of beer, and gives it that substance which improves with age; it is likewise a cheap substitute for malt, bib. being, as was before observed, equal to one bushel of malt. I would therefore advise every person to use sugar prepared for colour : the essentia I leave optional. Liquorice-root—is pleasant, wholesome, keeps the body gently laxative, and opposes the costive quality of some of the other ingredients; it ought therefore to be used, as should Spanish liquorice, which is of the same quality: porter is said to feed people inclining to corpulency; nothing is more necessary than to keep the body regular, and therefore liquorice is doubtless one of the most salu- tary ingredients of porter, carrying off the pernicious efFects of the other compounds, and producing that regular habit which is the foundation of corpulency. Copsictwra-r-disperses wind and crudities caused by- indigestion; properly used, it cannot be unhealthful: it leaves a warm glow on the stomach, which is perceptible on drinking some beers: but it should be carefully made use of. Ginger—has the effects of capsicum ; it furthermore cleanses and flavours beer; but capsicum being cheaper is more used, and by its tasteless, though extremely hot quality, cannot be so readily discerned in beer as ginger. Treacle—partakes of many of the properties of li- quorice, is a laxative, and inclines to gentle perspiration : by thus promoting the natural secretion, it must be a prin- cipal mean of rendering porter and beer in general whole- some and healthy. Treacle is also a cheaper article than sugar, and answers the purposes of colour, where the beer is intended for immediate consumption : but in summer, where the body is required to withstand the temperature of the air, and the draught is not so quick, sugar alone can give body to porter. Treacle will therefore be a dis- cretionary article. Coriander-seed—used principally in ale, is pernicious, not to say poisonous in the highest degree; and the use of it affords one of the many proofs of the little regard paid to the health of society by interested persons. Cocculus Indicus — commonly called occulus India berries, is poisonous, stupefactive, and unlawful; but being of excessive strength to attack the head, and when