211 PRACTICAL REMARKS ON THE DISEASES OF TRADES- MEN, MECHANICS, LABOURERS, &c. &c. (Continue<l from page 157). Symptoms of the Dry Belly-ache, or Devonshire Colic— Colic occasioned by the Fumes of Lead, Paint, fyc. This complaint is known by a violent and constant pain about the navel, with a retraction of the integuments towards the spine, by an obstinate costiveness, and by a frequent but ineffectual desire to evacuate the contents of the bowels. There is sometimes, though not always, considerable retching; and when vomiting takes place in this disease, what is thrown up is usually of a green colour. This is a state of the complaint which will con- tinue for several days, during which time, however, the pain will vary somewhat in degree, though never entirely cease. A mild kind of delirium, nay, a perfect mania, will sometimes take place, and continue the whole time the bowels are constipated. These, however, are not very common circumstances; and when they do occur, they seem to have no influence in retarding the patient's recovery. In the dry belly-ache, the greatest relief from pain is experienced by keeping the trunk bent upon the knees. The pulse is usually not more than a hundred in a mi- nute ; the tongue has a natural appearance, and is moist; and there is scarcely any fever. It may be distinguished from every other disease of the abdomen by the situation of the pain round the navel, the retraction of the belly, the costiveness, the absence of fever, the pulse, and the preference given to a bent posi- tion of the body to any other. When this colic has continued for some time, and occa- sionally when it has not been present, there results a peculiar species of palsy, which affects the superior extremities only, very rarely the inferior. The wrist also in many cases becomes remarkably flaccid and loose, as if the weight of the hand stretched the capsular ligament of it. The thumb wastes away, in consequence, it is supposed, of the rapid absorption of the part taking place from the pressure of the handle of the brush used in painting. This disease is always attended with some degree of danger, in proportion to the violence of the symptoms and the duration of the disease. Even when it docs not k e 2