Health, an Allegory. 177 applied to them, I have enclosed their branches with new tar twine, by putting it several times round the shrub, which has had the desired effect. Tar twine, however, by being exposed to the air and rain, will lose its smell; consequently must be renewed as occasion requires ; but the mixture is always to be preferred, where it can be used.— Trans. Philosoph. Society. Method of preserving Seeds when sown from Vermin. By Mr. Henry Brown, of Derby. " I have made use of a very simple method for the last three years; in which time 1 have never lost a seed by vermin, although they have burrowed in a direct line with almost every row of pease and beans that have been sowed. It is nothing more than steeping the grain or seed, three or four hours, or a sufficient time for it to penetrate the skin, or husk, in a strong solution of liver of sulphur." HEALTH, AN ALLEGORY. BY THE LATE DR. COTTON. Health is reported to be the daughter of Tempe- rance, and born in the golden age. Some are of opinion that she was descended, on the male side, from Exercise. But, by the best lights I could ever obtain in a matter of such antiquity and obscurity, I am inclined to think that this account of her genealogy is spurious. For Tempe- rance was not so properly her mother, as nurse or guar- dian ; one who had the tuition of her infancy, and was far advanced to a most important post, as shall hereafter be mentioned. Whatever darkness, however, may attend her parental descent, yet all the annals agree in the following, viz. that her birth was celebrated with great pomp and cere- mony ; for the Graces visited her in person, and each would have adopted her for their own. This beautiful young virgin, though highly' accomplished, was never fond of public appearance, which, it must be confessed, would be strange self-denial in the pretty goddesses of our days. Her principal delight was in the fields and woods, where Flora dressed her with the rose and the lily; and Diana frequently made her a companion in her sports. A nymph thus possessed of more than human accomplishments, was justly entitled to a throne; nor