600 Cautions against Empirics. adolescence, to impress young persons entering the world, with a due sense of the consequences arising from an in- discriminate use of quack and other patent medicines, more permanent good would thence result to society, than by all the endeavours to persuade children, that medicinal aid is intended only as a punishment for their refractory behaviour. Great precaution, however, is required in contending against prejudices, so general and inveterate: one step too forward would deprive us of all confidence, and frus- trate the most benevolent design. Power and severity cannot accomplish, what reflection and rational convic- tion will always perform; because mankind evince the greatest reluctance to comply with laws and regulations, the utility of which is not manifest. Hence, to extirpate those noxious weeds of society, the public and private empirics, I presume to suggest the following, as the most effectual, perhaps the only method: Let us first convince the multitude, that there is no such thing in nature, as a medicine which either cures the same disease in all patients, or serves as a preventive for all diseases. Yet the most scientific demonstration w ill be of little, if any service, to banish quackery, if it be not aided by the attractive power of example. It would, therefore, be the first step towards its extirpa- tion, if the higher ranks would dutifully support the efforts of well-meaning individuals. I will not decide, whether they would not ultimately derive equal benefit and satisfaction, from such co-operation. For, how can it be expected that those whom they are obliged to employ in domestic affairs, will assist in opposing hurtful preju- dices, if they themselves are not sufficiently instructed, respecting the most common phenomena of Nature? But there is a more important point. If every clergyman or curate—and who is better quali- fied to be employed in the services of humanity ? were to bestow a small portion of his time in inquiring, not only of what disorder the person died, who is to be entered in the bills of mortality, but likewise, whether he had em- ployed empirics, and taken any patent or other medi- cines made up for sale—not unlike those of the Veterinary Surgeons—I am convinced that such information, if laid before the public, would be attended with the best effects. Besides, this scheme would be productive of the follow- ing advantages:—!. That the relatives of the deceased