Housekeeping and Husbandry. 388 To make Mushroom Katchup. Take mushrooms, four pounds; common salt, two pounds; sprinkle the salt over them; when the juice is drawn out, add pimento, eight ounces; cloves, one ounce; boil for a short time, and press out the liquor: what remains may be treated again with salt and water for an inferior kind: black pepper, mace, and ginger, are usually added. Walnut Katchup. 1. Take green shells of walnuts, one bushel; common salt, six pounds; let them remain for two or three days, stirring them occasionally, that the air may turn them black; press out the liquor; add spices to the palate of the country, and boil it: are all used for sauces.—Or, 2. Take juice of young walnuts by the press, to a gallon add two pounds of anchovies; shallots, one pound; cloves, mace, black pepper, of each, an ounce; and a clove of garlic: boil a little, and bottle. Fish Sauce. 1. Take port wine, one gallon; mountain, two pints; walnut katchup, four pints; anchovies and liquor, two pounds; lemons, eight; shallots, three dozen; Cayenne pepper, a sufficient quantity; scraped horse-radish, two pounds; mace, one ounce; flour of mustard, eight ounces; boil up gently: strain and bottle.—Or, 2. Take anchovies, twenty-four; shallots, ten; horse- radish root, scraped, three spoonfuls; mace and cloves, of each, two drachms; lemons, sliced, two; anchovy liquor, eight ounces; Hock or Rhenish wine, two pintsj water, one pint; boil to two pints : strain and bottle. STILTON CHEESE. This favourite species of cheese is made in most o£ the villages round Melton Moubray, where the dairy, people still profess to keep the method of making it a secret. It is certain that these cheeses require a great- deal of care and attention, owing, probably, to their richness and thickness. They run usually from eight to sixteen or eighteen pounds, seldom larger, and are rarely fit for the table under a year old. They are made in the following manner: Take the night's cream, and put it to the morning's new milk, with the rennet; when the curd is come, it is not to be broken, as is done with other