On the Physical Education of Children, $c. 371 Of the Laplander. The Laplanders inhabit a comparatively mild climate, and are a more gentle race of men. The size of the human figure increases; the flat rotundity of the visage diminishes; the cheeks are lengthened; the eyes are dark grey; the straight black hair becomes red, and the inter- nal organization of the man expands with his external frame, as the bud that blows beneath the beams of a more genial sun. The mountain Laplander grazes his rein-deer, which neither the Esquimaux nor Greenlander can do; and obtains from them food and raiment, cover- ings foT his house and his bed, conveniences, and even superfluities; while the Greenlander is reduced to seek almost every thing from the sea. Thus man acquires an animal for his friend and servant; he learns arts, and a more domestic mode of life. It inures his foot to the chace, and his arm to the guidance of the rein; it pre- pares his mind for the acquisition and enjoyment of permanent property ; while at the same time it cherishes his love of liberty, and accustoms his ear to that timid watchfulness, which characterizes many nations in a similar condition. The Laplander listens as faithfully as his beast, and sets ofF at the slightest noise; he loves his way of life, and looks, like his rein-deer, to the summits of the mountains, to spy the returning sun : he talks to his beast, and is understood by him; he is careful of him as his wealth, or as a member of his family. Thus, with the first tameable animal that Nature could bestow on this region, she gave uncivilized man a guide to a more human mode of life. Of the Samoiede. The Samoiede has the round, broad, flat visage, the straight black hair, the low sanguineous body, of the northern form: his lips are more full, his nose broader and more prominent, but his beard is diminished. These features, however, we shall find progressively decreasing, along an immense tract of land to the eastward. Thus the Samoiedes are, as it were, the negroes of the north; and the great irritability of their nerves, the early puberty of the females, in the eleventh or twelfth year; nay, if the account be true, their black nipples, and some other circumstances, render them still more similar to the negroes, notwithstanding the coldness of their climate. Yet, in spite of their warm and delicate constitution,