Housekeeping and Husbandry. 120 of the garden, when first gathered, are plump and firm, and have a fragrant freshness no art can give them again, when they have lost it by long keeping;—though it will refresh them a little to put them into cold spring water for some time before they are dressed. To boil them in soft water, will preserve the colour best of such as are green; if you have only hard water, put to it a tea-spoonful of carbonate of potash. Take care to wash and cleanse them thoroughly from dust, dirt, and insects: this requires great attention: pick off all the outside leaves, trim them nicely, and if not quite fresh gathered and have become flaccid, it is absolutely necessary to restore their crispness before cooking them, or they will be tough and unpleasant; lay them in a pan of clean water, with a handful of salt in it, for an hour before you dress them. " Most vegetables being more or less succulent, their full proportion of fluids is necessary for their retaining that state of crispness and plumpness which they have when growing. On being cut or gathered, the exhalation from their surface continues, while from the open vessels of the cut surface, there is often great exudation or eva- poration, and thus their natural moisture is diminished, the tender leaves become flaccid, and the thicker masses or roots lose their plumpness. This is not only less pleasant to the eye, but is a real injury to the nutritious powers of the vegetable ; for in this flaccid and shrivelled state its fibres are less easily divided in chewing, and the water which exists in vegetable substances, in the form of their respective natural juices, is directly nutri- tious. The first care in the preservation of succulent vegetables, therefore, is to prevent them from losing their natural moisture."—Sup. io Edinb. E?icyclop. vol. iv. p. 335. They should always be boiled in a saucepan by them- selves, and have plenty of water : if meat is boiled with them in the same pot, they will spoil the look and taste of each other. If you wish to have vegetables delicately clean, put on your pot, make it boil, put a little salt in, and skim it perfectly clean before you put in the greens, &c. which should not be put in till the water boils briskly; the quicker they boil, the greener they will be. When the vegetables sink, they are generally done enough, if the water has been kept constantly boiling. Take them up