Choice of Corks. 575 over the fire, when lukewarm, or even cold, put half a pint of the solution into a bottle, shake it well; if there be a crust on the bottle add shot; when it appears clean, pour the same liquid into another bottle, as it will do until it becomes black, when it must be thrown away; the bot- tles, if very foul, should then be rinsed with scraped pota- toes and water, and after that with clean water, till not the least bubble or froth is to be seen on the water poured off. The quantity of potass above is sufficient to clean from two hundred and fifty to five hundred bottles; when rinsed they must be turned upside down on bottle racks, and perfectly dry before they are used. The preservation and melioration of wines in bottle, says M. Jullien, depend—1. On the maturity of the wine in wood ; this we have already treated upon.—2. Their limpidity or brightness when bottled.—3. The proper time for bottling.—4. The bottles employed.—5. The quality of the corks.—6. The care employed in bottling. 7. The method of arranging the bottles; and 8. The per- foration of the wax to preserve the corks from humidity and insects. If the bottles be not left a sufficient time to dry, the drops of water in them suffice to injure the wine ; if the wines be very valuable, it is well to give the last rinsing with spirits of wine or strong brandy; this will make them keep longer, and be finer. Choice of Corks. The choice of corks is a very important matter; they must be supple, and as little porous as possible. We know a gentleman whose wines are constantly in bad order, from his saving sixpence or one shilling a hundred in the price of his corks; the very best ought to be chosen, therefore, it is always cheapest to have the very best corks. It is for this reason that the Champagne wine merchants pay for their corks six times the price of com- mon corks. In bottling the wine, the bottles must stand in a vase so elevated, that the neck of the bottle takes the end of the cock, while the bottle forms an angle with the horizon of about sixty degrees: if the bottle be upright, the wine will froth, and bubbles of air be contained in it, which are injurious to its preservation. There ought always to be two persons to bottle off wine; one to draw it off, and the other with his corks ready in water, to cork it: the i D