MEANS OF RENDERING WOOD, LINEN,&c. INCOMBUSTIBLE. It always affords us pleasure to give publicity to any discovery that promises to be of advantage to society, and more especially when it is calculated to preserve the property and lives of those individuals who adopt it. Mr. Benjamin Gook, of Baskerville-house, Birmingham, in his experiments on the alkalis, has dis- covered that all linen, cottons, muslins, &c. &c, when dipped in a solution of the pure vegetable alkali at a gravity of from 124 to 130, taking water at the gravity of 100, become incombustible. That all timbers become incombustible when saturated with a solution of alkali at the gravity of 140 to 150. He has two methods of saturating timber, first by letting the timber in the plank lie in the solution for several weeks, until the alkali has perfectly filled up the pores of the wood ; but the method he prefers, is the use of a powerful machine, by which he extracts or forces out the sap, and then forces the alkali through the whole tree, thus filling up all the pores, and rendering the tree incombustible; this he proposes to do as soon as the tree is felled, and before the bark is taken off. When the bark is in its best state he performs this operation in a few hours, which, while it renders the wood incombustible, completely prevents dry rot. The solution of pure vegetable alkali which Mr. Cook prepares for securing from fire, muslins, cottons, &c. &c. is as pure as the clearest spring water; perfectly free from smell, and will not discolour the finest cambrics or mus- lins. When so many dreadful accidents are continually happening from ladies' dresses taking fire, from bed and window-curtains being set on fire, either by accident or carelessness of servants, we cannot but consider this dis- covery as one of great importance to society. For ship timbers, its value is inestimable, and not less so for all timber for houses and public buildings. We understand this gentleman obtained a patent for his discovery nearly eight months ago, and that its not yet having been brought into the world, has been occasioned by the delays he has experienced in preparing the proper apparatus for making the solution in that pure state re- quisite for use in muslins, cottons, &c. &c.