Jftural ©conomp.—No. IV. Best Method of Hay-making. Instead of allowing the hay to lie, as usual in most places, for some days in the swathe after it is cut, never cut hay but when the grass is quite dry ; and then make the gatherer follow the cutter close up; put it up imme- diately into small cocks, about three feet high each, and of as small a diameter as they can be made to stand with ; always giving each of them a slight kind of thatching, by drawing a few handfuls of the hay from the bottom of the cock all round, and laying it slightly on the top, with one of the ends hanging downwards. This is done writh the utmost ease and expedition; and when once in that state, the hay is, in a great measure, out of danger; for unless a violent wind should arise immediately after the cocks are put up, nothing else can hurt the hay, as no rain, however violent, can penetrate into these cocks but for a little way; and if they are dry put up, they never sit to- gether so closely as to heat, although they acquire in a day or two such a degree of firmness, as to be in no danger of being overturned by wind after that time, unless it blows a hurricane. In these cocks allow the hay to remain until, upon inspection, it is found that it will keep in pretty large tramp-cocks (which is usually in a week or two) according as the weather is more or less favourable, when two men, each with a long-pronged pitchfork, lift up one of these small cocks between them with the greatest ease, and carry them, one after another, to the place where the tramp-cock is to be built; and in this manner proceed over the field till the whole is finished. To take the Honey of Bees without Destroying them. The following easy method of taking the honey without destroying the bees, is generally practised in France. In the dusk of the evening, when the bees are quietly lodged, approach the hive, and turn it gently over. Hav- ing steadily placed it in a small pit, previously dug to receive it, with its bottom upwards, cover it with a clean new hive, which has been properly prepared, with a few sticks across the inside of it, and rubbed with aromatic herbs. Having carefully adjusted the mouth of each hive to the other, so that no aperture remains between them, take a small stick, and beat gently round (he sides