Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. 007 SCARBOROUGH. The two-fold attraction of sea-bathing and mineral waters, which this place affords, renders it, if not so fashionable, frequently, much superior to other places; and for these reasons, it contains among its numerous visitors, more votaries of health than of dissipation. This ancient and populous town is situated in the south-east corner of the North Biding of Yorkshire, at the bottom of a beautiful bay, from which it rises in the form of a crescent, on the slope of a bold and varied shore, presenting several points of great elevation, and is sheltered from the north-east by a rock of high accli- vity, surrounded by the sea, except on the western side. By the Lincoln road, Scarborough is about 214 miles distant from London, and by that through York, 240; from which latter city it is 40 miles. It contains about 8000 resident inhabitants, many of whom are engaged in maritime concerns. Bathing. On no part of the British coast is there any place so conveniently or delightfully situated for sea-bathing as Scarborough. The bay is spacious, and lies open to the sea; the water is pure and transparent; the sand is clean, smooth, and firm; and the inclination of the beach to- wards the sea is so gradual, as scarcely to be perceptible. Bathing may be performed at all times of the tide, and in almost all kinds of weather, with the most perfect se- curity. As is usual at most other places, morning is the time for bathing, as well as for drinking the waters. Warm Baths. There are here three separate establishments, where warm and cold sea water, steam and shower baths, may be had, when required—two of them on the cliff; one of which is kept by a surgeon, the other by a physician, and the third, near the pier, by a gentleman of the latter distinction. There is also a general sea-bathing infirmary, on the plan of the Margate Bethseda, where the sick poor are allowed to drink the waters gratuitously. Tfie Spa; its Situation, Properties, fyc. The Spa is about a quarter of a mile, in a southerly direction, from the town, on the sands, at the foot of a high cliff, and rises upright out of the earth, near the level of the spring-tides, which often overflow it. It consists