Secrets of Trade. worms, contain calomel as their principal ingredient, combined with scammony, jalap, gamboge, or some other purgative. They are uncertain and dangerous medicines; the method of exhibiting them is in the form of lozenges (worm cakes), is also attended with inconveniences, for the sugar and the gum generating an acid, being kept in damp places, may considerably increase the acri- mony of the mercury; besides which, the calomel is fre- quently very unequally diffused throughout the mass: one lozenge, therefore, may contain a poisonous dose, whilst others can scarcely contain any active matter. colley's depilatory. Potass forms the basis of many of those preparations sold as depilatories, or substances that remove superflu- ous hairs; in some instances, they are combined with quick-lime. The above appears to consist of quick-lime and a portion of the sulphuret of potass. CORN PLAISTER. The green coloured plaister sold under this title, is usually composed of three parts of wax, four of Burgundy pitch, and two of common turpentine; to which is addedr one of verdigris. COUGH DROPS. These are usually preparations of opium, very similar to paregoric elixir. (See page 5). court plaister. (Sticking PlaisterJ!. The composition of this preparation is as follows: black silk is strained and brushed over ten or twelve times, with the following preparation: Dissolve half an ounce of benzoin in six ounces of rectified spirit; in a separate vessel, dissolve an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water; strain each solution, mix them, and let the mix- ture rest, so that the grosser parts may subside; when the clear liquor is cold, it will form a jelly, which must be warm before it is applied to the silk. When the plaister is quite dry, in order to prevent its cracking, it is finished off with a solution of chian turpentine four ounces, in six ounces of the tincture of Benjamin. crespigny, lady, her pills—dinner pills—lady Webster's, or lady crespigny's pills. These popular pills, are the " pilula; stomachica," stomach pills—commonly called, " pilulce ante cibum," or pills before meat, of the codex medicamentarius Pari- siensis. Editio Quinta, A. D. 1758.