To free Plants from Leaf-Lice. corks ought to be driven in as tight as is consistent with the strength of the bottle, for if carelessly wetted, the wine oozes out and communicates with the wax, which will in time infuse the whole wine with its bad taste. 'There ought to be about three quarters of an inch space between the wine and the cork, for if there be not space enough, the compression of the air will burst the bottles. When all is drawn off that is clear, let the remainder be poured into a vase and covered up, and filtering paper adapted inside a funnel, which place in a bottle to filter: by this means you have no waste, and save eight or ten bottles of wine which the cooper would like for himself, under the pretext that it is good for nothing; whereas, it is very good, and scarcely discernible from the rest; only it ought to be used for immediate consumption. Tt may be proper here to notice the various changes of which wine is susceptible, in wood and in bottle. Poor wines are apt to turn sour; some of the Burgundies turn bitter; white wines, especially Champagne, are subject to what the French call la graisse, that is, to become ropy; these are disorders incident to the wines them- selves. Another disorder, that of becoming mouldy or musty, arises from the carelessness of the person having the care of the cellar, as it only happens when the vessels are not kept filled. The remedies generally in use for recovering wines, are, fining them over again, sulphuric fumigations, and drawing them off into other casks. When these methods are not successful, they may be mixed with an equal quantity of the same wine of the last vintage, which gene- rally produces the effect desired ; or if, which is rare in England, you have abundance of fresh lees, that is still better. When the wines have a bad or putrid taste, they must neither be mixed with good wine nor lees, until the bad flavour is destroyed by sulphuric fumigation. TO FREE PLANTS FROM LEAF-LICE. Mr. Braun, of Vienna, gives the following as a cheap and easy mode of effecting it. Mix an ounce of flowers of sulphur with a bushel of saw-dust; scatter this over the plants infested with these insects, and they will soon be freed, though a second application may possibly be necessary.