285 AN ACCOUNT OF THE GREAT VIRTUES OF RHUBARB, COM- BINED WITH CREAM OF TARTAR. [From Sir William Fordyce's Method of Cultivating and Curing that Plant in this Country\. Of the cream of tartar, let half an ounce be dis- solved in a quart of boiling water; of which let the pa- tient drink one half every twenty-four hours, giving, in a cup-full of it, ten grains of powder of the same rhubarb, twice or thrice within that space of time. Mix a quarter of an ounce of rhubarb in powder, with three quarters of an ounce of the cream of tartar, into the form of a linctus, with oxymel of squills. A tea- spoonful of this, taken twice or thrice a day, is one of the best medicines for a dropsy, hitherto known. Add sixty grains of our rhubarb to as much of the salt of tartar, boil them for a quarter of an hour in six ounces of water in a tin saucepan, strain it through blotting- paper; and you have what one of the best writers on the Materia Medica calls Anima Khabarbari. One tea- spoonful of this given once a-day to a child of a year old, twice a-day to one of twenty-four months old, and three times a-day to one a year older, is one of the best com- positions as yet known, for strengthening the stomach and bowels of little children, and preventing the big bel- lies, rickety joints and limbs, incident to their age. Put half an ounce of the fibrous roots of our rhubarb, with two drachms of this same salt of tartar, into a bottle of brandy, or as much aniseed water; and you have an excellent tincture and domestic medicine for the wind cholic. ASTONISHING ACCUMULATION OF VALUE FROM RAW MATERIALS. There is an instance hitherto unnoticed in the annals of English industry, wherein, by the manufacturer, an article is raised in price, from one halfpenny to thirty- five thousand guineas. This takes place in the manufac- ture of watch springs—& pound of crude iron costs one halfpenny, which is converted into steel; that steel is made into watch springs, every one of which is sold for half a guinea, weighing only the tenth of a grain: after deducting for waste, there are in a pound weight seven thousand grains; it therefore affords steel for seventy thousand watch springs, the value of which, at half a guinea each, is thirty-five thousand guineas.