504 The Effects of Prejudice. shaved. All stimulants should be avoided. In cases of coups de soleil (strokes of the sun) the same means are to be used as in apoplexy. *** On restoration to life, a tea-spoonful of warm water should be given; and then, if the power of swallowing be returned, small quantities of warm wine, or weak brandy and water, warm ; the patient should be kept in bed, and a disposition to sleep encouraged, except in cases of apoplexy, intoxication, and strokes of the sun. Great care is requisite to maintain the restored vital actions; and, at the same time, to prevent undue excitement. The treatment here recommended is to be persevered in for three or four hours. It is an erroneous opinion that per- sons are irrecoverable, because life does not soon make its appearance; and it is absurd to suppose, that a body must not be meddled with or removed without the per- mission of a coroner.—See New London Medical Pocket Book, p. 18, &c. THE EFFECTS OF PREJUDICE. Monsieur, brother of Louis XIV. had an extreme aversion to being let blood. In 1701, he had a bleeding of the nose, which he concealed from the physicians, fearing that they would order him to be bled. Being at table with the King one day at Marly, he was seized with a bleeding at the nose, so considerable that the whole company was alarmed. M. Fochon, first physician, to whom long experience had given the right of speaking to the princes with a salutary boldness, said, after having examined him, " You are threatened with apoplexy, and you cannot be too soon blooded." The King, at different times, joined himself with the physician, in order to over- come the resistance of his brother to being bled; but never being able to succeed, he at length said, " You will find what your obstinacy will cost you. We shall be awoke some of these nights to be told—that you are dead."—The prediction was soon accomplished; for, at the end of a short time, after having supped very gaily at St. Cloud, Monsieur was about to retire, when he dropped down dead, as he was asking M. De Ventadour, who was near him, for a liqueur which the Duke of Savoy had sent him.