Mechanics, Labourers, 151 These observations have been corroborated by similar observations, in an asylum for children, in a large ma- nufacturing town, where the individuals were certainly properly nourished, but where they were confined eight or nine hours a day in heading pins and straw-platting; but this kind of work they did not commence until above seven years of age. Still, upon an extensive comparison of them with others not so confined, it was obvious that their growth was stunted; the buoyancy of infancy, usually so remarkable and engaging, was lost; neither was there that freedom of action in the limbs, which, in children, is generally so conspicuous. Sir Astley Cooper's Opinion on the Confinement of Children, fyc. Sir Astley Cooper, who also gave his evidence before the above-mentioned Committee, states, if possible, the ill-effects of confinement in still stronger terms than Mr. Owen; and, as he asserts his opinion to be the result of extensive observation, it is particularly deserving of attention. " The result of confinement commonly," observes Sir Astley, " is not only to stunt the growth, but to produce deformity, and to that point I can answer, from a good deal of experience, that deformity is a common consequence of considerable confinement." The bad Effects of over Exertion. These effects are not confined to children alone; though, from the intemperance and irregular habits of adults, it is much more difficult to ascertain them. Among the poor, the idea of having over-worked themselves is by no means uncommon; and, necessarily as suspicion attaches to their own evidence, many cases have occurred, in which general exhaustion and debility were readily enough traced to this source. Such, therefore, being the consequence of labour, not with regard to the kind, but the degree, it forms a most important subject of inquiry, to what extent an individual may exert his physical strength, without deteriorating or retarding the full development of his powers. To enter deeply into this, however, would lead us too far from our present purpose; we shall therefore content ourselves with stating on this subject, the opinion of the late most eminent physician Dr. Baillie, and in which he was supported byDrs. Pemberton and Tuthill, Sir Gilbert Blane, Sir Astley Cooper, and Mr. Carlisle. "Seven years old," said Dr. Baillie, "is perhaps the earliest age at which.