2:U horticulture. JUNE. The Kitchen-Garden.—In the kitchen-garden parti- cular attention will now be required, in weeding, thin- ning, hoeing, and watering many principal crops; and in sowing, picking out, and transplanting, several suc- cessional and main crops, for autumn and winter, &c. As several early crops—in the natural ground will now be in perfection, and some gathered olf for use this month, the ground should be prepared in proper time, and sowed or planted with others in succession. Advanced forward crops—in rows that will soon come off, as early cauliflowers, cabbages, beans, &c. may be inter-cropped with other articles, to gain ground and time in the advancing growth of the intermediate crops, which may be cabbage-plants, coleworts, borecole, celery, let- tuces, leeks, &c. also occasionally beans, peas, kidney- beans, cucumbers, &c. Solving and planting—is still necessary in many suc- cessional and several principal crops. For sowing—the principal sorts are turnips, kidney- beans, lettuce, endive, cucumbers, celery, cabbages, savoys, spinach, radishes, peas, beans, borecole, broc- coli, carrots, finochio, turnip-radish, small sallading, coleworts, turnip-cabbage, and a few onions to draw young. To sow in hot-beds—nothing is now required except if cold wet weather, may sow cucumbers to plant out for pickles, &c. To plant—several principal and successional crops are necessary; as cabbages, coleworts, savoys, borecole, broccoli, leeks, lettuce, beans, endive, and cardoons ; also many aromatic and pot herbs, in young seedling plants of the year, slips, cuttings, off-setts, &c. ■ Pricking out from seed-beds, is necessary in celery, cauliflowers, cabbages, savoys, broccoli, bore- cole, and the different aromatic and sweet herb seedling plants, &c. &c. Fruit-Garden and Orchard.—Considerable atten- tion is now required in wall and espalier trees in general, in the work of summer pruning and nailing, &c. as the shoots of the year will be numerous, much advanced,