Of Sleep. 542 after dinner it may be continued to the third and fourth year of life, if the child shews a particular inclination to repose; because, till that age, the full half of its time may safely be allotted to sleep. From that period, how- ever, it ought to be shortened for the space of one hour with every succeeding yearj so that a child of seven years old may sleep about eight, and not exceeding nine hours: this proportion may be continued to the age of adoles- cence, and even manhood. To awaken children from their sleep with a noise, or in an impetuous manner, is extremely injudicious and hurt- ful : nor is it proper to carry them from a dark room immediately into a glaring light, or against a dazzling wall; for the sudden impression of light debilitates the organs of vision, and lays the foundation of weak eyes, from early infancy. Another habit still more dangerous, and often destruc- tive in its consequences, deserves severe animadversion: it is the practice of playing with children after sleep, while they remain in bed, or suffering them to indulge their fancy, when awake in the morning. Thus, alas! the stimulating heat of the couch, together with the accumulated matters destined for evacuation, almost in- evitably rouses certain sensations, which but too frequently unfold the dormant sexual instinct, at an early period of life. Those parents and guardians who are anxious to preserve their children from vice, ought cautiously to guard against such habits. The most proper regulation with respect to the sleep of children upwards of seven years of age, appears to be the following: to send them to their beds, at the latest, at nine o'clock, and to awaken them at six o'clock in the morning. A bed-room, or nursery, ought to be spacious and lofty, dry, airy, and not inhabited through the day. No ser- vants, if possible, should be suffered to sleep in the same room, and no linen or washed clothes should ever be hung there to dry, as they contaminate the air in which so considerable a portion of infantine life must be spent. The consequences attending a vitiated atmosphere in such rooms, are various, and often fatal. Feather-beds should be banished from nurseries, as they are an unna- tural and debilitating contrivance. The windows should never be opened at night, but left open the whole day, in fine clear weather. Lastly, the bedstead must not be placed too low on the floor; nor is it proper to Jet