059 Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. nine-tenths of a grain of iron in a pint; but this spring contains 2£ grains of iron in every pint of water. As the efficacy of Cheltenham waters depends on the happy combinations of iron with other saline bodies, the superabundance of this - invigorating substance which exists in the spring above mentioned, must certainly give it a decided pre-eminence over those in which this metal is not so abundant. The strengthening qualities of the iron enables the stomach to bear a quantity of water sufficient to produce the desired effect, without the feeling of distention at the time of taking it, or languor and debility after its operation. Artificial salts, even when skilfully combined with preparations of iron by the chymists, have never been made to imitate that salubri- ous production of nature, Cheltenham Water, in their effects upon the human body. Chalybeate Springs. The first of these, which was only particularly noticed of late, promises to possess very active virtues, and will probably rival Tunbridge and Astrop. It is the property of Mr. Barret, and is situated in a meadow, two or three hundred yards from the mill at the top of the town. A pump-room has lately been erected, and a book opened, which has already a great number of subscribers; but the water has not yet been sufficiently analysed to allow us to speak with confidence on its qualities. In the begin- ning of 1804, a new saline spring was discovered. It is situated upon an elevated spot of ground, which com- mands a beautiful prospect of the town, distant 300 yards from the old well, in the lane leading to Badgeworth; and has a convenient footpath through the fields adjoining the lane. The water somewhat resembles that of Harrowgate, and contains rather more sulphureous gas than the other wells did in their original state. The effects on the body are nearly similar to those of the Lower Spa, and no greater quantity of water is required for a dose. It is particularly recommended in bilious disorders, stomach complaints, eruptive and cutaneous affections, and intes- tinal worms. During the summer of 1804, a pump was fixed in the well, which works with great ease at the depth of forty feet; and it is now covered over by a temporary building, for the accommodation of the drinkers.