344 Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. ing, is, when fresh drawn in the glass, above HGdeg.; that of the Cross Bath, 112 deg. But after flowing into the spacious bathing vessels, it is generally from 100 to 106 deg. in the hotter baths, and from 92 to 94 deg. in the Cross Baths; a temperature which remains nearly station- ary, and is greater than that of any other natural spring in Britain. A small quantity of gas is also disengaged from these waters, which Dr. Priestley first discovered to contain no more than one-twentieth part of its bulk of fixed air, or carbonic acid. Chymical Properties of the Bath Waters. The chymical properties of the Bath waters, accord- ing to the most accurate analysers, Doctors Lucas, Fal- coner, and Gibbs, contain so small a proportion of iron, as to amount only to one-twentieth or one-thirty-eighth of a grain in the pint; and, according to Dr. Gibbs, fifteen grains and a quarter of siliceous earth in the gallon. Dr. Saunders estimates a gallon of the King's Bath water to contain about eight cubic inches of carbonic acid, and a similar quantity of air, nearly azotic, about eighty grains of solid ingredients, one-half of which probably consists of sulphate and muriate of soda, fifteen grains and a half of siliceous earth, and the remainder is sele- nite, carbonate of lime, and so small a portion of oxyde of iron as to be scarcely calculable. Hence he con- cludes, that the King's Bath water is the strongest chaly- beate; next in order the Hot Bath water; and lastly, that of the Cross Bath, which contains the smallest pro- portions of chalybeate, gaseous and saline, but consider- ably more of the earthy particles; while its water, in the pump, is also two degrees lower than that of the others. It is likewise now ascertained, that these springs do not exhibit the slightest traces of sulphur, though it was formerly believed, and erroneously supported on the authority of Dr. Charleton, that the subtile aromatic va- pour in the Bath waters, was a sulphureous principle, entirely similar to common brimstone. Effects of the Bath Water. With regard to the effect of the Bath waters on the human system, independent of their specific properties, as a medicinal remedy not to be imitated completely by any chymical process, Dr. Saunders attributes much of their salubrious influence to the natural degree of warmth peculiar to these springs, which, for ages, have preserved