302 BATHS, WELLS, WATERS, AND MINERAL SPRINGS. (Continuedfrom p. 266). BRIGHTON. This delightful and much improved place of fashion- able resort, is fifty-two miles from the metropolis. In its present state, the town is estimated to contain upwards of twenty thousand settled inhabitants, and receives more than this number of annual visitors, for the purposes of health or pleasure. Hot and Cold Baths. These are situated near the Steyne, and were com- menced in 1795, after the jjlan of Mr. Golden. On one side of a handsome vestibule are erected six cold baths; and on the other hot-baths, sweating, and shower-baths, which are supplied from the sea by an engine constructed by Mr. Williams. Near this place are also the old Brighton baths. The baths here may be engaged by subscription, for one, two, or three months, or for a single time. When a hot- bath is required out of the usual hours, previous notice is expected, that it may be duly prepared. The general place of resort for the ladies to the water in the machines, is on the east side of the town; the gen- tlemen now bathe on the west; by which means public decency, without which civilized societ}* could not exist, is not violated. Air-Pump Water-Baths. These baths, the invention of Mr. Nathan Smith, of Artillery-street, are for the relief of persons afflicted with the gout, or violent scorbutic affections; but with what degree of success, we know not. Gilburd's Baths. New Steyne Hotel. These baths, for hot and cold sea water, are attached to the New Steyne Hotel. The baths and rooms are heated by steam. The sea water is pumped up every tide from the ocean, by means of a steam engine, through a tunnel in the interior of the chalk rock up to the baths, at a distance of six hundred feet. There are horizontal baths; also a plunging hot and cold bath, with a doche bath * ; likewise sea water vapour-baths, shower-baths, &c. • The baths communicate with the hotel. * This term signifies purifying "or dasliing cold water over the body. It is