343 BATHS, WELLS, WATERS, AND MINERAL SPRINGS. (Continuedfrom p. 311.) BATH. The city of Bath has been long- celebrated for its numerous hot springs, which are of a higher temperature than any in this kingdom (from 112° to 1H)°), and which, in- deed, are the only natural waters we possess that are at all hot to the touch; all the other thermal waters being of a heat below the animal temperature, and only deserving that appellation from being invariably warmer than the general average of the heat of common springs. These waters are particularly adapted to the benefit of invalids, who find here a variety of establishments, con- tributing equally to health, convenience, and amuse- ment. King's Bath, Cross Baih, and the Hot Bath; Properties, fyc. There are three principal springs in the city of Bath, namely, those called the King's Bath, the Gross Bath, and the Hot Bath; all within a short distance of each other, and emptying themselves into the river Avon, after having passed through the several baths. Their supply is so copious, that all the large reservoirs used for bath- ing are filled every evening with fresh water, from their respective fountains. In their sensible and medicinal properties, there is but a slight difference. According to Dr. Falconer, the former are; 1. That the water, when newly drawn, appears clear and colourless, remains per- fectly inactive, without bubbles, or any sign of briskness,, or effervescence. 2. After being exposed to the open air for some hours, it becomes rather turbid, by the separa- tion of a pale yellow, ochrey precipitate, which gradually subsides. 3. No odour is perceptible from a glass of the fresh water, but a slight pungency to the taste from a large mass of it, when fresh drawn, which, however, is neither fetid nor sulphureous. 4. When hot from the pump, it affects the month with a strong chalybeate im- pression, without being of a saline or pungent taste. And, fifthly, on drawing cold, the chalybeate taste is entirely lost, leaving only a very slight sensation on the tongue, by which it can scarcely be distinguished from common hard spring-water. The temperature of the King's Bath water, which is usually preferred for drink- x x