287 J^orticultute, JULY. The Kitchen-Garden.—Now, as many principal crops will be arrived to perfection, and some mature crops gathered off, the ground should be prepared for the reception of others in succession, and some main crops for autumn and winter. Many articles will now require sowing and planting, which must be particularly attended to in proper time this month. To sow—several successional and principal crops are necessary; as turnips, colewort, cabbages, endive, let- tuces, kidney-beans, spinach, radishes, carrots, onions, turnip-radish, black Spanish radish, finochio, coriander, borage, beets, small salading, &c. No hot-bed sowing is required at this season. Planting—is now requisite in many full crops for autumn and winter, &c. and some for autumnal succesr- sion; as savoys, broccoli, coleworts, borecole, cab- bage, celery, endive; leeks, lettuce, some late beans for production in August and September, &c. cauliflowers for autumn and winter; and to prick out several seed- ling plants, of cabbages, coleworts, broccoli, celery, borecole, and various aromatic and other pot-herbs. Fruit-Garden and Orchard.—At this season the most diligent attention is still necessary in the operation of summer pruning, and nailing wall and espalier trees, both in continuance of the former regulation, and more parti- cularly in that wholly omitted before, to regulate the numerous shoots of the year, which in the latter case will now be grown into confused disorder. Summer pruning—where commenced in May or June, and the improper and superfluous shoots displaced, will not be so considerable at this time; and the principal business required is to fasten in the retained regular shoots to the walls, &c. according as they advance in growth, and to cut out useless after-shoots. But where the summer pruning of wall and espalier trees is omitted till this time, great confusion must consequently occur in the numerous shoots of the year, and should now be regulated with the utmost at- o o