40 Singular Cures of the Gout, fyc. Benclay, then newly published, in his hand.—This anec- dote ought to be a lesson to the gouty, not to hazard the use of doubtful remedies, which only ease their pains by destroying life. A gentleman was attacked with a severe fit of the gout at Vienna, at the time when hemlock was much in vogue as a remedy. He took very large doses of this medicine, which eased his pain; and he certainly never again ex- perienced any severe attack of gout, but he became en- tirely impotent. Hoffman relates, that a man who was attacked by the gout, was cured by a dog which he took to sleep with him, and which was seized with it. The animal appeared to feel all the pains which his master had pre- viously experienced. The gouty may safely try this remedy: if it does not cure them, it can assuredly do them no harm. A dog that was extremely fond of Burton ale, was re- marked to have every symptom of gout—swelled joints, lameness, &c. Causing the inflamed part to be licked with the tongue of a dog, is said to assuage the pain. M. Desault, a physician of Bourdeaux, has given to the public a collection of medical dissertations; and among them one on the gout, which he treats in a singu- lar manner. " Had I composed only a romance con- cerning the gout, in which saving the appearance of truth, and endeavoured to prove the possibility of curing this painful malady, every arthritic would have perused my dissertation when at leisure; how much more then is it his duty so to do, when I declare, that all the facts on which I found my system are true, and that I mean to de- ceive no person." The author follows Sydenham in the opinion, that the gouty are in general persons of genius: that it attacks men of sense in preference to fools; the rich rather than the poor.. Why the rich are its peculiar victims, is not difficult to explain. The same author tells a pleasant story of a dispute with a monk, who was mightily offended that he had been cured of some disease by an infusion of cinchona in a mixture of old wine and distilled spirit, because it had produced a slight degree of intoxication. The savage inhabitants of the Antilla islands, when attacked by the gout, dig a hole in the ground, into which they throw heated coals; and upon these they pile