133 Uortii ■nlliirc. balm, tansey, tarragon, thyme, savory, marjoram, hyssop* sorrel, burner, fennel, pennyroyal, chamomile, cives, rhubarb, lavender, rue, &c. To plant in hot-beds—me cucumbers, melons, asparagus (b.)> strawberries, and mushrooms ; and to prick therein young seedling cucumbers, melons, capsicums, love tipples, basil, &c. Fruit-Garden and Orchard.—The principal busi- ness now in this district, consists in completing an in- tended planting, and to finish all remaining winter prun- ing as soon possible, and to give occasional watering to new-planted trees ; to finish all grafting ; defending ten- der wall-fruit from frost; and in some sorts of wall-trees, to commence their summer pruning (1.) by displacing useless shoot-buds of this year's production. Planting—may still be performed, but should be wholly completed (b. m.) in the different sorts of wall, espalier, and standard fruit-trees; giving water as soon as planted, and repeated occasionally the first three or four weeks. Flower-Garden and Pleasure-Ground.— The flower-garden, pleasure-ground, and shrubbery, should now have all necessary articles for sowing and planting of flowers, shrubs, trees, &c. completed; and all parts put into the neatest order by digging, hoeing, raking, sweeping, rolling, mowing, &c. Borders and beds—should be digged or hoed, and care- fully raked, both to appear neat, and to be ready for the reception of seeds and plants of flowers that may be in- tended. Walks and grass lawns—should also be put into neat order, for the spring season. Sowing—may be performed in all sorts of annuals and biennials, and many sorts of perennials; also of many tree and shrub seeds. Planting—may still be continued in fibrous-rooted perennials and biennials; but finish planting all bulbs (b.), and most kinds of flowering shrubs, and various trees, both deciduous and evergreens, (b. m.), &c. Work in the Nursery.—In the two last months having advised the several works of planting and trans- planting, sowing seeds, and other methods of propagating the different sorts of trees, shrubs, and plants, to be for- warded as much as possible, as being the principal season for performing these operations; and also to complete all the principal spring business of digging, and several