41 Qualifications of a Good Cook. the fruits of the monbane, a kind of palm: upon this they place the part affected, and endure the hot steam as long as they can. If this remedy does not cure, it affords at least great relief. They term this kind of fumi- gation baucaner. M. Bossu, in his Voyages to America, states, that he witnessed an experiment made by an Eu-^ ropean with this method of baucanning. He had laboured for six weeks under a severe fit of the gout in the right foot, which completely laid him up. He determined to put himself in the hands of the most famous juggler of the island, named Tonska, who treated him as follows : He boiled a vast variety of herbs in a large cauldron: this savage then covered the cauldron with the hide of a deer, supported by bent branches of trees. He intro-i duced the diseased foot of the patient, so as to be im- mersed in the vapour arising from this cauldron, and the European soon received a complete cure. " 1 saw him in a short time after," says M. Bossu, "follow the chace, and attend to all his usual avocations, without inconve- nience." Many imitations of this savage quackery have lately appeared in different parts of Europe. QUALIFICATIONS OF A GOOD COOK. She must be quick and strong of sight: her hearing most acute; that she may be sensible when the contents of her vessel bubble, although they be closely covered, and that she may be alarmed, before the pot boils over : her auditory nerves ought to discriminate (when several saucepans are in operation at the same time) the sim- mering of one, the ebullition of another, and the full- toned wabbling of a third. Tt is imperiously requisite that her organ of smell be highly susceptible of the va- rious effluvia, that her nose may distinguish the perfec- tion of aromatic ingredients, and that in animal sub- stances it shall evince a suspicious accuracy between tenderness and putrefaction: above all, her olfactories should be tremblingly alive to mustiness and empy- reuraa. It is from the exquisite sensibility of her palate that we admire and judge of the cook; from the alliance between the olfactory and the sapid organs, it will be seen that their perfection is indispensable.—Apichis Ccelim, jun. (.•