Extract from Pepys Memoirs. 112 Suggestions for the Cure of Disappointed Love, 6>c. The same attempt has often been recommended in dis- appointments under the passion of love; and, according to the concurrent report of the poets of ancient and mo- dern times, many of whom profess to be well versed in this kind of discipline, it has very generally been attended with success. Where the emotion has more of a corpo- real than a sentimental origin, this may easily be con- ceived ; and it is possible, that it may also sometimes have occurred under a purer feeling: though, for the honour of the human heart, we do not think this is much to be trusted to. Where the choice between two young persons of fair character is really imprudent, yet the affections are so rivetted, as to bid defiance to all forcible attempts to unfetter them, a promise of consent on the, part of the reluctant parent at the distance of a given period of time, as a year and a half, and two years, with an undertaking on the part of the lovers, neither to see nor correspond with each other in the meantime; an engagement easily fallen into, has in many instances been successful. The ardour has gradually cooled on the one side or the other, the judgment has been more impressed with the nature of the imprudence, or a more attracting form has interposed, and settled the question irretriev- ably ! While on the contrary, if the fidelity should hold on both sides, to the end, and the passion be heightened instead of depressed, as in this case there is most reason to suppose it would be, hard, indeed, must be the heart that would extend the restriction farther, and that would not wish joy to so deserving a couple. EXTRACT FROM PEPYS' MEMOIRS*. Leaving of the year 1664, the author records: " This Christmas I judged it fit to look over all my papers and books; and to tear all that T found either boyish, or not to be worth keeping, or fit to be seen, if it should please God to take me away suddenly. Among others, I found these two or three notes, which I thought fit to keep: * Sec Antiquary's Portfolio, vol ii. p. 273, 274.