The Lam of Wagers. 383 RABBIT. If your fire is clear and sharp, thirty minutes will roast a young, and forty a full-grown rabbit. When you lay it down, baste it with butter, and dredge it lightly and carefully with flour, that you may have it frothy, and of a fine light brown. While the rabbit is roasting, boil its liver with some parsley; when tender, chop them together, and put half the mixture into some melted butter, reserv- ing the other half for garnish, divided into little hillocks. Cut off the head, and lay half on each side of the dish. A large, well-grown, (but young) warren-rabbit, kept some time after it has been killed, and roasted with a stuffing in its belly, eats very like a hare, to the nature of which it approaches; it is nice nourishing food when young, but hard and unwholesome when old. PHEASANT, Requires a smart fire, but not a fierce one. Thirty minutes will roast a young bird; and forty or fifty a full grown pheasant. Pick and draw it, cut a slit in the back of the neck, and take out the craw, but don't cut the head off; wipe the inside of the bird with a clean cloth, twist the legs close to the body, leave the feet on, but cut the toes off don't turn the head under the wing, but truss it like a fowl; it is much easier to carve: baste it, butter and froth it, and prepare sauce for it. BROWNING. Take white sugar, in powder, two pounds; fresh butter, eight ounces; fry gently until of a fine dark brown; add by degrees, a gallon of port wine; then put Jamaica and black pepper, each four ounces; shallots, six ounces, mace, one ounce; katsup, three pounds; salt, a suffi- cient quantity; peel of eight lemons; boil gently, when cold, skim and bottle the clear:—used to colour and flavour animal food. THE LAW OF WAGERS, AS LAID DOWN IN THE COURT OF KING'S BENCH. In the case of Jacobs versus Abrahams, Lord Elleu- lmrough said, that it was always held a point in law, thai, a person making a bet, fttight, by a countermand, aft any time previous to the wager being determined, put an end to it. 3 c