Oil the Administration of Clysters to Children, fyc. 497 Where Emetics are improper. There are, however, a variety of cases, in which the administration of emetics would be equally improper for children and adults; for instance—1. In general plethora, or a determination of blood towards the head, breast, stomach, and particularly the liver, which is but rarely the case in infancy;—2. In actual inflammation of the intestines ;—3. In great debility of the system;—4. In ruptures, prolapses, and other deformities of the body; lastly—5. In obstructions of the bowels, and a few other cases, chiefly relative to adults. As it is to be presumed that parents will not, without proper medical advice, venture upon the administration of emetics, it would be superfluous to state those cases where they are of the greatest service; my principal aim is to shew that, upon the whole, vomiting is less dan- gerous and detrimental, to the young as well as to the delicate, than purging. This assertion will not be dis- credited, when it is considered that the former inverts the motion of the stomach, suspends the equilibrium of the muscular fibres of that organ, only during its operation, and serves in a manner as an useful exercise to the whole body; while the latter, or laxatives, act by their mecha- nical stimulus on the stomach and intestines; increase the access of the fluids to those parts, even beyond the alimentary canal; diminish the mass of the circulating blood; and thus, at one and the same time, affect the liver, the pancreas, and other viscera, which partake of the subsequent debility. On the Administration of Clysters to Children, Clysters have often, though with injustice, been held, as it were, in contempt and disgust. Their use, however, is great, and, I would almost say, boundless. A remedy in itself so harmless, and calculated to afford almost instantaneous relief, deserves to be better understood, and ought to become more general. Many powerful objections have hitherto prevailed against lavemens, which are now effectually removed by the invention of convenient apparatus. To enforce the importance of this remedy, I shall observe, that Nature has certainly not appointed the stomach to be the field of battle for medicinal, but for alimentary substances; that she has provided the abdo- men with an intestine of uncommon firmness and elasticity :i R 2