"Tom" Paine on the Yellow Fever. 159 extracted, was, we believe, at least ostensibly, published some years ago by Mr. Rickman ; and we trust that the subject it embraces is of such important interest, parti- cularly at the present moment, as not to be unacceptable to the general reader and enquirer*. The yellow fever has of late years, it is well known, prevailed throughout several colonies in the West Indies, and over a great portion of the American Continent, from which places it extended in a short period to the southern parts of Europe, nearly equalling the plague in its devas- tations. Many different and conflicting opinions have prevailed relative to its Qrigin; some supposing it to have been introduced into the West Indies; and others, that it took its rise from the exposure of putrid animal and vegetable substances on the public wharfs of the city of Philadelphia; which latter opinion is strongly supported by Dr. Rush, as he also found that the streets adjoining these wharfs, were the first in which the disease made its appearance, and that in several instances it could be clearly traced from thence to other parts of the city. And Dr. Miller, of New York, informs us, or rather he repeats the observations of Paine, that the yellow fever in America, always begins in the lowest part of a populous mercantile town near the water, and remains there without affecting much the higher parts. It rages more where large quan- tities of new ground have been made by banking out rivers, for the purpose of constructing wharfs. The ap- pearance and prevalence of yellow fever in low situations, he tell us (Dr. M.) have led to the belief, that the disease was imported by ships from the West Indies. But that a person seized with this fever in an affected part of the town, and conveyed to one that is healthy, or carried into the country, does not communicate it to the neigh- bourhood, nor to those immediately around them, "Tom'* Paine's Preliminary Observations. " A great deal," says Paine, " has been written respecting the yellow fever, first, with respect to its cause, whether domestic or imported. Secondly, on the mode of treating it. *' What I am going to suggest in this Essay, is to ascertain some point to begin at, in order to arrive at the cause, and for this purpose some preliminary observations are necessary. The quarantine laws, and the contagious or non-contagious properties of the yellow fever, hrought forward by Lord Darnley, are at the present moment under discussion before the House of Commons.