£52 Lobster canting its Shell, fyc. Mode of Living, increase and change—casting ojthe Shell, jjc. When the young lobsters leave the parent, they imme- diately seek lor refuge in the smallest clefts of rocks, and crevices at the bottom of the sea, where the entrance is but small, and the opening can be easily defended. There, without seeming to take any food, they grow larger in a few weeks time, from the mere accidental substances which the water washes to their retreats. By this time also they acquire an hard, firm shell, which furnishes them with both olfensive and defensive armour. They then issue from their fortresses, and boldly creep along the bottom, in hopes of meeting with more diminutive plunder. The spawn of fish, the smaller animals of their own kind, but chiefly the worms that keep at the bottom of the sea, supply them with plenty. They keep in this manner close among the rocks, busily employed in scratching up the sand with their claws for worms, or surprising such heed- less animals as fall within their grasp: thus they have little to apprehend, except from each other ; for in them, as among other sea animals, the large are formidable ene- mies to the small. But this life of abundance and security is soon to have a most dangerous interruption; for the body of the lobster still continuing to increase, while its shell remains unal- terably the same, there comes on a necessity of getting free. The young of this kind, therefore, change their shell oftener than the old, who remain in the same shell often for two years together. In general, however, all these animals change their shell once a year; and this is not only a most painful operation, but dangerous. Their molting season is generally about the beginning of summer; at which time their food is in plenty, and their strength and vigour in the highest perfection. For some days before their change, the animal discontinues its usual voracious- ness ; it lies torpid and motionless, as if in anxious ex- pectation of the approaching change. Just before casting- its shell, it throws itself upon its back, strikes its claws against each other, and every limb seems to tremble; its feelers are agitated, and the whole body is in violent mo- tion ; it then swells itself in an unusual manner, and at last the shell begins to divide at its junctures; particularly at the junctures of the belly. It also seems turned inside out; and its stomach comes away with its shell. Alte r this, by the same operation, it disengages itself of the