Wenst unites and civilizes mankind is religion; and religion itself is nothing more than the practice of the social virtues. These sober and rational people want nothing more than the controul of civil laws to make them just. Their pri- vate worship consists in the love of their parents, whether living or dead; and their public worship in the love of labour; and that labour which is held in the most sacred veneration is agriculture. Royal Husbandmen, fyc. The generosity of two of their Emperors is much revered, who, preferring the interest of the state to those of their family, kept their own children from the throne to make room for men taken from the plough. They revere the memory of these husbandmen, who sowed the seeds of the happiness and stability of the empire in the fertile bosom of the earth; that inexhaustible source of whatever con- duces to the nourishment, and consequently to the increase of mankind. In imitation of these royal husbandmen, the Emperors of China become husbandmen officially. It is one of their public functions to break up the ground in the spring; and the parade and magnificence that accompanies this cere- mony draws together all the farmers in the neighbourhood of the capital. They flock in crowds to see their Prince perform this solemnity, in honour of the first of all the arts. It is not, as in the fables of Greece, a God who attends the flocks of a King; it is the father of his people, who, holding the plough with his own hands, shews his children what are the true riches of the state. In a little time he repairs again to the field he has ploughed himself, to sow seed that is most proper for the ground. The ex- ample of the Prince is followed in all the provinces, and the same ceremonies are performed in the presence of a numerous concourse of husbandmen. The Europeans, who have been present at this solemnity at Canton, never speak of it without emotion; and make us regret that this festival, whose political aim is the encouragement of labour, is not established in our climate, instead of that number of religious feasts, which seem to be invented by idleness, to make the country a barren waste. WENS. The Marquis de Lionne had a wen upon his right arm. In January, 1731, he put himself under the care of