427 The Gourmand's Complaint. the bark with a draw-knife, or other instrument, perfectly smooth, which must be particularly attended to: then lay on the plaster, about one-eighth of an inch thick, all over the part where the wood or bark has been so cut away, finishing off the edges as thin as possible. Then take a quantity of dry powder of wood-ashes, mixed with a sixth part of the same quantity of the ashes of burnt bones; put it into a tin box, with holes in the top, and shake the powder on the surface of the plaster till the whole is covered over with it, letting it remain for half an hour, to absorb the moisture: then apply more pow- der, rubbing it on gently with the hand, and repeating the application of the powder, till the whole plaster be- comes a dry, smooth surface. All trees cut down near the ground should have the surface made quite smooth, rounding it off in a small de- gree, as before-mentioned; and the dry powder directed to be used afterward, should have an equal quantity of powder of alabaster mixed with it, in order the better to resist the dripping of trees and heavy rains. If any of the composition be left for a future occasion, it should be kept in a tub, or other vessel, and urine of any kind poured on it, so as to cover the surface, other- wise the atmosphere will greatly hurt the efficacy of the application. Where lime rubbish of old buildings cannot be easily got, take powdered chalk, or common lime, after having been slaked a month, at least. As the growth of the tree will gradually affect the plaster, by raising up its edges next the bark, care should be taken, where that happens, to rub it over with the finger when occasion may require (which is best done when moistened by rain) that the plaster may be kept whole, to prevent the air and wet from penetrating into the wound. THE GOURMAND'S COMPLAINT. A glutton complained to a physician, that he was much afflicted with colicky spasms: "What hast thou eaten to-day V asked the son of Galen; " and how dost thou generally live ?" The glutton informed him that he had been at a feast, and rather exceeded his usual fare which was so and so daily. " Well," said the Doctor' " if happily thou dost not die to-night, I would advise thee to hang thyself to-morrow, for death alone can rid thee of thy complaints."