Causes of the Rural Economy of the Chinese, fyc. 5GL moment's intermission from their work to look at his ship, which was the largest that had ever anchored in those latitudes. Hut this inattention to an object which appeared to a Chinese sailor to be of no use, though it was in the way of his profession, is perhaps a proof of the happiness of a people, who prefer business to matters of mere curiosity. Mode of Culture not Uniform, fyc. The manner of culture is by no means uniform through- out this empire, but varies according to the nature of the soil, and the difference of the climate. In the low coun- tries, towards the south, they sow rice, which being always under water, grows to a great size, and yields two crops in a year. In the inland parts of the country, where the situation is lofty and dry, the soil produces a species of rice, which is neither so large, so well tasted, or so nou- rishing, and makes the husbandman but one return in the yeaY for his labour. In the northern parts the same kinds of grain are cultivated as in Europe, which grow in as great plenty, and are of as good a quality as in any of our fertile countries. From one end of China to the other, there are large quantities of vegetables, particularly in the south, where, together with fish, they supply the place of meat, which is the general food of the other provinces. But the improvement of lands is universally understood and at- tended to; all the different kinds of manure are carefully preserved, and skilfully distributed to the best advantage: and that which arises from fertile lands, is applied to make them still more fertile. This grand system of nature, which is sustained by destruction and re-production, is better understood and attended to in China, than in any other country in the world. Causes of the Rural Economy of the Chinese, &c. A philosopher, whom the spirit of observation has led into their empire, has found out and explained the causes of the rural economy of the Chinese. The first of these causes, is that character of industry by which these people are particularly distinguished, who in their nature require a less share of repose. Every day in the year is devoted to labour, except the first, which is employed in paying and receiving visits among relations; and the last, which is sacred to the memory of their an- cestors* The first is a social duty, the latter a part of domestic worship. In this nation of Sages, whatever 4«2