408 Ungovernable Despondency—Despair, Syc. Ungovernable Heart-Ache, contrasted with querulous Anxiety. Nothing can be more different than this constitutional pining, and the pains produced by heart-ache, or the reality of severe grief. The former is talkative and que- rulous; the latter is dumb, and flies from company. The sensorial exhaustion is so considerable, that the mind, with its attention upon the full stretch, has scarcely strength enough to collect the train of ideas on which alone it resolves to dwell; and hence all conversation is irksome, the presence of a friend disquieting, and the deepest solitude is anxiously sought for; and not unfre- quently the discharge of nervous power is so considerable and sudden, as to produce a general torpor of the brain, which, if it do not happily terminate in quiet sleep, is the inlet of apoplexy. Even in the former case, the irrita- bility of the nervous fibres continues to such an excess, that the sufferer has no natural evacuation for perhaps several days, feels no hunger, cannot be persuaded to take food, is incapable of sighing, and sheds no tears: and hence the appearance of tears and sighs are good omens, and are correctly regarded as such; since they shew that the general torpitude is giving way in the organs that associate with this painful emotion of the mind, to a slight return of irritability. As soon as the flow of the sensorial principle is a little increased, the prgecordia struggles with great anxiety, and the heart is over-loaded, and feels ready to break or burst, whence the name of heart-ache, so appropriately applied to this variety of suffering. Sometimes, also, hysteric flatulency oppresses the respiration, and convulsions, and, not un- frequently, death itself ensues. But if recovery should take place, it is usually long before the judgment re- assumes its proper sway in the mind, and the temporary derangement altogether ceases. At times, indeed, this never returns, and the pitiable sufferer only lives through the shock to endure the severer evil of confirmed insanity; of which Shakspeare has given us an admirable copy in the character of King Lear, finely imagined to be a result of filial ingratitude. Ungovernable Despondency—Despair, how distinguished from the preceding. Despair makes a near approach to heart-ache in the overwhelming agony it produces, and its pressing desire