18 The Genuine Golden Rules of Economy. dental strokes of generosity, and to be at once ridiculed and relieved. 4. If an old person expects to receive the least degree of attention from the world in general, or even from his relations in particular, it must be by the force of happy circumstances in his favour; such, for instance, as arise out of a fortune accumulated by the industry or ingenuity of youth. This will render the veteran respectable among his domestics, and make even his utmost infirmities sup- portable. Whereas, if an old man has no testimonials of his economy to produce, he will crawl contemptibly about the world ; be upbraided for his former prodigality, even by his own children, who, having no hopes, will consider him as an incumbrance ; and, wanting the various atten- tions which are necessary to the accommodation of the last scene, his continuance in the family will be irksome, his life must be supported by the contributions of the charitable, andhemustdieunmourned. Keep, therefore, the staff in thine own hand. 5'. The same principle of prudence which makes it ne- cessary for a man to provide against the wants and in- firmities of age, should prevail with a man, to provide against the wants and infirmities of distemper. Let the sick man rather depend on the panacea of his purse, than on the pity of his physician. A very healthy person is very soon reduced to his chamber, and we are all liable to the most inveterate disorders. It often happens that a stout young man, in the very vigour of existence, is brought to such a state, as to depend on the servitude of another, for whose assistance in these very points, which, in a state of health, he would blush to make known to a second person. If these feeblenesses continue for any length of time, nothing, but the power of paying our at- tendants well, can make them be done cheerfully, if at all. A sick spendthrift is therefore a horrid spectacle; his nurse becomes negligent; his physician gives him now and then a call, upon the score of humanity—he wants strengthening and restoring comforts, both of the kitchen and the arm-chair; and, what is worse than all, rebukes himself, for having squandered, in the hour of superfluity, what should have been reserved for the moment of exigence. 6. Art thou rich? Place then circumspection as a centinel over thy passions; lest that which thou possessest, becometh a prey to artifice !