Temperance the best Physic. 5(J3 a farrier, who had obtained a reputation for the cure of these kind of tumours. He first attempted to discuss it, but this only tended to render the tumour more painful: and the caustics which he afterwards employed, causing the most excruciating pain, reduced the patient to the last extremity. Mr. Faget, and Messrs. Sylvaand Petit, were then consulted. They unanimously agreed that extirpa- tion was the sole means of saving the patient. The opera- tion was performed by Mr. Faget with complete success. History states, that ruffs Were first introduced into Eng- land in the reign of Edward the Sixth, by an Italian or Spanish lady, desirous of concealing a wen which grew upon her neck. In the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences for the year 1728, mention is made of a very extraordinary wen, by a Dr. Guisard. In 1724, this wen occupied the whole extent of the thigh from the hip to the knee, and resembled the crowns of two hats joined together. In 1727, it had increased so much, that the patient could no longer walk. It then weighed forty pounds. At length it burst, and by degrees all the cysts (probably hydatids) it contained were discharged, so that by the 8th of August it was quite empty. The thigh-bone was exposed for a considerable length, although apparently quite healthy. The patient, however, died in a short time, apparently of mere debility, accompanied with frequent fainting fits. The celebrated Mr. John Hunter obtained great cele- brity, in early life, by removing a large wen from the neck; an operation which some of his contemporaries had de- clared, rather rashly, none but a fool or a madman would attempt. The patient, however, got perfectly well. The tumour, after it was removed, and the blood and other fluids had exuded, weighed nine pounds. TEMPERANCE THE BEST PHYSIC. Sir "William Paulett, who died in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, at the age of 97, gave the following answer to a person who enquired how he had preserved his health: Late supping I forbear; Wine and Women I forswear; My neck and feet, I keep from cold; No marvel then, tho' I be old: I am a willow, not an oak ; I chide, but never hurt with stroke.