Secrets of Trade. 110 eaton's styptic. After the styptic of Helvetius had been discarded from the Continent, it was brought into this country, and for a long- time continued to be employed with confidence, under the new title of Eaton's Styptic. It is now made in several different modes, and consists chiefly of an alcoholic solution of sulphate of iron, with some unim- portant additions. EAU MEDICINALE D'HUSSON. After repeated attempts to find out the active ingredient of this Parisian remedy, it is at length determined to be the colchicum autumnale (meadow saffron), which several ancient authors, under the name of hermodactyllus, have recommended in the cure of gout. The following is the recipe for preparing this medicine : Take two ounces of root of the colchicum, cut into slices, macerate in four ounces of Spanish white wine, and filter. ECONOMICAL BREAKFAST .POWDER (HTJNT's). Various articles have been proposed at different times as substitutes for coffee. In the "Fourth Century of Observations," in the " Miscellanea Curiosa," we find a critical dissertation on the (cahve) coffee of the Arabians, and on the European coffee, or such as may be prepared from grain. Dillenius gives the result of his own prepa- rations, made with pease, beans, and kidney beans, but says, that that made from rye comes the nearest to true coffee, and was with much difficulty distinguished from it. This is a curious fact, inasmuch as a spurious coffee, known by the name of " Hunt's (Economical Breakfast Powder," has lately come into use, which is nothing more than roasted rye, and which the proprietor continues to prepare in a manner far superior to any of his imitative rivals. EDINBURGH OINTMENT. The principal ingredients of this ointment, are the white hellebore and muriate of ammonia. eliXir of longevity (of Dr. Jernizt, of Sweden). This consists of an aromatic tincture, with aloes. (See p. 13). elixir of vitriol. The preparation sold under this name, is the aromatic sulphuric acid of the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia, and is im- perfectly asthereal in its nature. It is a grateful medicine. A spurious article is often sold for it, which is nothing but the diluted acid, colourod by the addition of a tincture. >