408 Anecdotes on, and Remedies for, offensive Breath. He remarks, that the breath of persons advanced in lite is offensive from the diminution of the vital heat, in conse- quence of which crudities accumulate in the stomach. The heat of the breath of the Esquimaux and Green- landers is so great, that it renders the huts in which they live as warm as a stove, and quite insupportable to an European; so that the inhabitants of the coldest country in the world are absolutely ignorant of the use of a chimney. Bensarade being one day in a company where a young lady, who had an offensive breath, was singing very loudly; after she had finished said, " There is a fine voice, and excellent words, but the air is abominable." The cause of the breath being offensive, is not so often to be ascribed to disease, as to intemperance and irregu- lar living—thus, a person in good bodily health, whose lungs are sound, and perfectly in tune, may have a very disagreeable breath, from drinking and habitual smoking. People who never clean their teeth are subject to the same inconvenience, from animal decomposition taking- place betwixt them—the accumulation of tartar and other incrustations disguising and degrading the enamel. Ca- ries or hollow teeth, are not so much the cause as the effect, of offensive breath. Whenever these exist they should be plugged as early as convenient, to prevent them from enlarging and affecting those contiguous to them. . To palliate, and frequently to prevent this inconve- nience, washing the mouth every morning with some an- tiseptic powder, as charcoal, or tincture, as that of myrrh or of Peruvian bark, previously washing the mouth out with water, and retaining the taste of the former until it gradually dissipates of itself, or rubbing the teeth with a dry cloth and bark in powder, will tend considerably to improve the breath: taking occasionally a table spoonful of the following-: Camphor mixture, ----- 7 ounces. Tincture of myrrh, - - - - - 1 ounce. ' Tincture of bark, \ ounce. Aromatic spirit of vinegar, - 1 drachm. With which also the teeth may be washed. Chewing a piece of mastich, also corrects the fetor of the breath. And when it is a consequence of continual feverish heat, attention should be paid to the state of the bowels, by the frequent use of gently cooling aperients. —See remarks on the preservation of the teeth and gums, p. 431.