894 The Golden Touch. person or persons whatsoever do attempt or presume to repair to Lis Majesty's Koyal Court, to be healed of that disease, before the Feast of All Souls now next coming; And to the end that all his loving subjects may the better take notice of this his Majestie's pleasure and command, his pleasure is, that this proclamation be published and affixed in some fit and open place in every mar- ket-town of this realme.. . After the Restoration, great multitudes flocked to receive the Royal Touch, inasmuch that six or seven per- sons were crushed to death, pressing at the chirurgeon's door for tickets.—Evelyn's Journal. In 1682 the King touched 8577; and Browne remarks, that notwithstanding the number had been so great as to amount to a considerable portion of the whole nation, yet, upon any new declaration of healing, they were again as fast as if none had applied before, " A thing as monstrous strange!" Notwithstanding this, it began to decline. Oliver Cromwell tried in vain to exercise the royal prerogative; and, in 1684, Thomas Rousewell was tried for high-treason, because he spoke with contempt of King Charles's pretensions to the cure of scrofula. Charles Bernard, who had made this touching the sub- ject of raillery all his life-time, till he became sergeant- surgeon, when it turned out so good a perquisite, that he solved all difficulties, by saying, with a sneer, " Really one could not have thought it, if one had not seen it." Origin of Touching for the King's Evil, fyc. Stowe, in his "Annals," accounts for the origin of touching for the king's evil, in the following manner: " A young woman was afflicted with this disorder in a very alarming manner, and to a most disgusting degree, feel- ing the uneasiness and pain consequent upon it in her sleep, dreamt that she should be cured by the simple operation of having the part washed with the king's hand. Application was consequently made to Edward, by her friends, who very humanely consented to perform the un- pleasant request. A basin of water was brought, with which he carefully softened the tumours, till they broke, and the contents discharged; the sign of the cross wound up the charm; and the female retired, with the assurance of his protection during the remainder of the cure, which was effected within a week." The Golden Touch. The Hon. Daincs Barrington, in his " Observations on our Antient Statutes," page 107, relates the circumstance