Prescriptions. 507 Eye-Salve. 1. Take Powder of sulphate of zinc, - - - 1 ounce. Hog's lard, prepared, - 6 ounces. 2. Take prepared tutty, 2 ounces. Spermaceti ointment, - - - - 8 ounces. Tn weak watery eyes, smear the edges of the eyelid night and morning. Humid Cough in Old People. Take Sulphate of zinc, - 10 grains. Myrrh, in powder, - - - -fy t. H drachms. < Confection of roses enough, to make the mass, which is to be divided into 20 pills, two to be taken twice a day. Paris. Heartburn. Take Magnesia, - 3 drachms. Prepared chalk, 10 grains. Ginger, - ■ 10 grains. Mix for a powder. For Colic in Old People. Take Tincture of rhubarb, - - - 3 drachms. senna, ----- 2 drachms. | of each, 1 drachm. cardamom, Mix for a draught Rheumatic Pills. Take Gum of guaiacum, - - - - - -J drachm. Compound powder of ipecacuanha, \ drachm. Confection of opium, 10 grains. Mix, and divide into twenty pills.—Two to be taken at bed-time. For the Ague. Take Peruvian bark, - - 1 ounce. Snake root, - - - - - - 1 drachm. Ginger, in powder, - _ . _ - - i ounce. Syrup of cloves, enough to make an electuary. The size of a walnut may be taken every three hours, or more if the stomach will bear it, during the intermissions; and to prevent a relapse, the same quantity should be taken every six hours for a week or ten days after the disease has been stopped. Forsyth. Mixture for a common Cough. Take Vinegar of squills, - - - - - 3 drachms." Tincture of the same, 2 drachms, i Spirits of nitre, 1 drachm. Tincture of foxglove, - - 10 drops. Common water, ----- 4 ounces. Syrup, - ounce. Mix, and take a table-spoonful three or four times a day. This will ease the chest, and promote a free expectoration. Chilblains. Take Compound camphor liniment, ") , . T Soap liniment, (opodeldoc) jof each> I ounce- Oil of turpentine, - - - 3 drachms. Mix.—Aslong as the skin remains entire, this liniment will be useful j or the parts may be bathed with warm spirits of rosemary at night, and covered with calico. Should the parts ulcerate, they may be dressed with an ointment made with ten grains of red precipitate and half an ounce of spermaceti ointment. 1