Manner of Hat king at Scio. these, as well as those of Caracalla, are still standing; and with the vast high arches, the beautiful and stately pillars, the extraordinary plenty of foregin marble, the curious vaulting of the roofs, the prodigious number of spacious apartments, and a thousand other ornaments, make one of the greatest curiosities of modern Rome. MANNER OF BATHING AT SCIO. (From Traveh into Asia Minor, by R. ChandlerD.D. and others). The next morning we were set on shore again, and I went with Captain Jolly to the principal bagnio, or pub- lic bathing-place, which is a very noble edifice, with ample domes, all of marble. I shall attempt to give an account of the mode of bathing: We undressed in a large square room, where linen is hung to dry, and the keeper attends with his servants. We had each a long towel given us to wrap round our middle, and a pair of tall wooden pattens to walk in. We were led through a warm narrow passage into the inner room, which is yet more spacious, and made very hot by stoves, which are concealed. In this was a water-bath, and recesses, with partitions on the sides. The pavement in the centre, under the dome, was raised and covered with linea cloths, on which we were instructed to lie down. We were soon covered with big drops of sweat, and two men naked, except the waist, then entered, and began knead- ing our flesh, tracing all the muscles, and cleansing the pores. By the time they had finished, our joints were sufficiently suppled, and they commenced the formidable operation of snapping all of them, not only the toes, ancles, feet, knees, fingers, and the like, but the vertebrae of the back and the breast; one while wrenching our necks; then turning us on our bellies, crossing our arms behind us, and placing their right knee between our shoulders. The feats they perform cannot easily be described, and are hardly credible. When this was over, we were rub- bed with a mohair-bag fitted to the hand, which, like the ancient strigil, brings away the gross matter perspired. We were then led each to a recess, supplied by pipes with hot and cold water, which we tempered to our liking. The men returned with soap-lather and tow in a wooden bowl, with which they cleaned the skin, and then poured a large quantity of warm water on our heads. Our spirits were quite exhausted, when they covered us with dry cloths and led us back to the first room, where beds were