Methods of rentedi/itig Defects in Cellars. 571 again with the wine and remain suspended in it, and thereby often turn the wine sour. Thunder, and all sudden shocks, are calculated to produce the same effect. 6. Green wood, vinegar, and all matters susceptible of fermentation, ought carefully to be kept at a distance from the cellar. 7. The reverberation of the sun's rays, if they enter a cellar, change the temperature and alter the properties of the wine. < 8. Hence a good cellar ought to be several fathoms under ground, it opening towards the north, and out of the way of streets, roads, workshops, sewers, currents of water, water-closets, wood cellars, &c. and vaulted. Methods of remedying Defects of Cellars. If the cellar be very damp, the wine in wood ought to be placed at a considerable distance from the ground, which must constantly be swept clean. The casks must be examined from time to time, and especially at the equinoxes, at those periods the staves may appear quite good at the top, while the bottom staves are quite rotten; the humidity may be lessened by increasing the air aper- ture^, and by the method we have already laid down, which is in use in powder cellars, under the ramparts in fortified towns. WJlen the cellar is of a proper temperature, the ullage in ai hogshead of French wine, will not be above two or three glasses a month ; but, if the cellar be too dry, the evaporation will sometimes be as much as two bottles a month ; the cellar may be rendered less dry by lessening the admission of air. It cannot be too strongly impressed on the butler, that very damp cellars in marshy ground, and infected by bad smells, will spoil all French wines, even those in bottle. Cellars covered with sand are very good for wines in bottle. The cellar being thus duly prepared, we will suppose the order for wines to be given; the selection depends greatly on the taste of the consumer. However, Clarets form a necessary part of the stock of every good cellar, and they will support any climate; whereas the Hermitage wines are very tender and bad travellers; if poor, they turn sour; if good, bitter, especially the Beaune wines, and the tender delicate Volnay. But Chamberton la Romanec, Corton le Hoi, and a few others of the good