183 Useful Memoranda. opening the glasses almost fully every warm day, and shutting them in cold nights ; but when warm (m. 1.), continue them open all night, to inure the plants now by degrees to the full air. Hot-House and Stove.—Continue still a proper re- gular heat in the hot-house, by means of a constant bark- bed, and moderate fires in cold evenings and mornings; though fire-heat may be entirely discontinued, if warm weather. W&zM iOTemorantra — No. I. Comparative Health and Population in England, Sir Gilbert Blane lately published the following remarks on the comparative health and population of England, at different periods. The annual mortality of London, in the year 1700, was one in twenty-five ; in 1750, one in twenty-one ; in 1801, and the four preceding years, one in thirty-five; in 1810, one in thirty-eight; and in 1821, one in forty. Sir Gilbert conceives the causes of superior health to consist in the general improvement of the habits of life; in particular, with regard to ventillation and clean- liness; to a more ample supply of water, since the new water companies have been established ; to greater abun- dance and better quality of food ; to the improved state of medicine, and the superior management of children. A comparative improvement in salubrity has also occurred in other large towns, and throughout the country. Masters and Servants. By 4 Geo. IV. cap. 34, sect. 3, It is enacted, that if any servant in husbandry, or any artificer, calico printer, han- dicraftsman, miner, collier, keelman, pitman, glassman, potter, labourer, or other person, shall contract with any person to serve him for any time, or in any other manner, and shall not enter into or commence his or her service according to his or her contract (such contract being in writing, and signed by the contracting parties); or havin<>- entered into such service, shall absent himself or herself from his or her service before the term of his or her con- tract, (whether such contract shall be in writing, or not in writing), shall be completed, or neglect to fulfil the same, or be guilty of any other misconduct or misdemeanor in the execution thereof, or otherwise respecting the same ;