Shower and Vapour-Bath. ■2(8 The Tepid-Bath, and its Use. A bath at about 90° is what we should term tepid. In a medicinal point of view, it produces the greatest effect in ardent fever, where the temperature is little above that of health, but the powers of the body weak, and not able to bear the vigorous application of cold immersion. In diseases of the skin, a tepid-bath is often quite sufficient to produce a salutary relaxation, with perspirability on the surface of the body. Dr. Saunders strongly recom- mends a tepid-bath, or even one of a higher temperature in the time of hemorrhagia, or obstructions of females. It is useful in chronic rheumatism of internal parts; in gout during the fit; also in head-aches, colds, and in in- flammation about the head, inflammatory sore throat, &c. Shower-Bath. This is a kind of cold-bath, of modern invention, in which the water falls through numerous apertures on the body. It is applied, in every case, to the same purposes as the cold-bath, and is often attended with particular advantages. First, from the sudden contact of the water, which, in the common cold-bath, is only momentary, but which, in the shower-bath, may be repeated, pro- longed, and modified at pleasure; and second, from the head and breast, which are exposed to . some incon- venience and danger in the common bath, being here effectually secured, by receiving the first shock of the water. A proper apparatus for this purpose may be obtained at the shops. The Vapour-Bath. The vapour-bath forms a valuable remedy in a variety of cases. In most of the hot natural waters on the Con- tinent, the vapour-bath forms a regular part of the bathing apparatus, and is there highly valued. In no country, however, is this application carried to so high an extent as in Russia, where it forms the principal and almost daily luxury of all the people, in every rank, and it is employed as a sovereign remedy for a great variety of complaints. The Hon. Mr. Basil Cochrane, some short time back, published a treatise on the vapour-bath, from which it appears he has brought the apparatus to such perfection, that he can apply it to all degrees of temperature, par- tially or generally, by shower or by steam, with a great force or a small one, according to the particular circum-