541 Of Sleep . life. Many children, however, acquire a habit of drink- ing during their meals; it would be more conducive to digestion, if they were accustomed to drink only after having made a meal. This useful rule is too often neg- lected, though it be certain that inundations of the sto- mach, during the mastication and maceration of food, not only vitiate digestion, but they may be attended with other bad consequences; as cold,drink, when brought in contact with the teeth previously heated, may easily occasion cracks or chinks in these useful bones, and pave the way for their carious dissolution. Of Sleep. Infants cannot sleep too long; and it is a favourable symptom, when they enjoy a calm and long-continued rest, of which they should by no *neans be deprived, as this is the greatest support granted to them by Nature. A child lives, comparatively, much faster than an adult; its blood flows more rapidly; every stimulus operates more powerfully; and not only its constituent parts, but its vital resources also, are more speedily consumed. Sleep promotes a more calm and uniform circulation of the blood; it facilitates the assimilation of the nutriment received, and contributes towards a more copious and regular deposition of alimentary matter, while the hori- zontal posture is the most favourable to the growth and Tjodily development of the child. Sleep ought to be in proportion to the age of the infant. After an uninterrupted rest of nine months in the state of a foetus, this salutary refreshment should continue to fill up the greater part of a child's existence; and Professor Hufeland affirms, that a continued watchfulness of twenty- four hours would prove destructive. After the age of six months, the periods of sleep, as well as all other animal functions, may in some degree be regulated; yet, even then, a child should be suffered to sleep the whole night, and several hours both in the morning and afternoon. Mothers and nurses should endeavour to accustom in- fants, from the time of their birth, to sleep in the night preferably to the day, and for this purpose they ought to remove all external impressions which may disturb their rest, such as noise, light, &c. but especially not to obey every call for taking them up, and giving food at improper times. After the second year of their age, they will not instinctively require to sleep in the forenoon, though