Rates for the Collection and Payment of Tithes. 175 ble, inconvenience, or expence is experienced by either party. 'Wheat.—This crop is strictly titheable in sheaves, but generally so in shocks: and notice for tithing is mostly given previous to carting. The tithe of this crop is cer- tainly the most easy to set out, when the shocks contain such an equal quantity of sheaves; and should any odd sheaves remain, the parson is entitled to his tithe of them as well as of the rest. The commencement of setting out must be, as in the case of hay, agreed upon between the parties interested. I have heard it asserted, that the tith- ing-man is bound to begin with the first shock on the right or left of the gate through which he enters the field; but I am inclined to doubt the existence of this custom; as in such cases, the farmer may make an arrangement in his own favour throughout the field, as was in the case of Stebbs v. Goodlock, when a custom was alledged, that the parson was to have every tenth land for the tithe of the corn; beginning upon such land as was nearest the church; and the occupiers, being aware of what land would be the parson's, in order to defraud him, omitted to till, manure, or sow his land, as they did their own. The Court held this to be a fraud, remediable by an action at law. Rye—being garbed similar to wheat, is titheable in the same manner. Clover Hay.—Much controversy and difference of opi-' nion having prevailed respecting the setting out of this crop, a case was brought into the Court of Exchequer, where it was decided that the legal way of tithing clover hay, should be when put into cocks, the same as common hay. Barley.—This crop is generally mown, and lays upon the swathe, till fit to be carted, when it is collected into heaps or shocks, and then becomes titheable, the same as other corn. Oats—are sometimes garbed, in which case they can be tithed like wheat: but if not garbed, they must be tithed when put into heaps or shocks, like barley. Peas and Beans—are titheable when garbed, like other corn, but when gathered green, are titheable by measure. If consumed in the grower's own family, they are not sub- ject to the payment of tithes, unless by special endow- ments. Tares—are considered, whether cut green or made into