216 ORIGINAL LETTER FROM THE LATE FRANCIS GROSE, ESQ. F. A. S. TO -— SIR, London, April 4, 1791. Herewith you have the Dial of Princes, which I beg you would keep till you have quite done with it; if you return it in the winter, or send it with your book, it will be quite time enough. I have been hunting for the horrid receipt for dressing a duck alive, but cannot find the book in which I think it is: but have written to a friend who has the book, and will communicate his answer in a post or two. I am cer- tain as to the fact of there being such an article, but not quite so clear as to the book. Knives and forks make a curious article in Tom Coriat, who says his familiar friends scrupled not to call him Furcifer, for using a fork. Fines Morrison, in his travels, advises the leaving off the fork in England, as being a piece of refinement or foppery. As I have him at hand, I will transcribe the passage: "Also I admonish him, after his return home, to renew his old friendships: and as souldiers in a good commonwealth, when the wane is ended, return to the works of their calling, (like the fol- lowers of Mercury, as well as of Mars): so that he re- turning home, lay aside the spoone and forke of Italy, the affected gestures of France, and all strange apparell; yea even those manners, which with good judgment he allowes, if they be disagreeable to his countrymen." Cooks seem to have been persons of consequence in the households of our princes. Witness the manor of Adding- ton, given by the Conqueror to his cook, and still held by the service of presenting the king at his coronation with a dish of plumb water-gruel, called de la groute ; for the making of which there is the recipe preserved in some of the public offices. The dress is likewise settled ; it is a laced bib and apron. Though that part of the ceremonial, on the installation of Knights of the Bath, where the master cook threatens to cut off the spurs of any knight who shall misbehave, seems rather to degrade his office. The master cook is, T likewise believe, the executioner for cutting off the hand of any person who shall strike another within the verge of the court. In some extracts from the books of account, in the chest of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, Sandwich, A. D. 1596, among the expences of entertaining the mayor with a dinner upon St. Bartholomew's day, is the following item: " For turnynge the spytte, iiijd."