44.8 Antidotes to Venomous Bites. eagerly. As we are not acquainted with any radical means of getting rid of these reptiles, we must endeavour to obviate the fatal tendency of their attack as much as lies in our power. Perhaps it may be matter of surprise, that no specific has yet been discovered for curing the bite of a snake, as we know that nature in her bounty has provided an antidote for every evil; and it is well known that the mungouse, the natural enemy of the snake, attacks these animals with impunity, by having recourse to a certain antidote of vegetable production, which is to be found every where, and is always at hand for their use. It may be matter of uncertainty whether the same vege- table production, taken by an human subject, would pro- duce the same effect, of counteracting the baneful effects of snake poison as it does in the mungouse, as we are in possession of many substances that produce very different effects on animals of different constitutions, exemplifying the saying, that what is meat to one is poison to another. Whatever may be our ignorance concerning the real specific for snake poisons, I shall endeavour to give such information regarding the preventing the deleterious effects of the bites of these dangerous animals, as we are at present acquainted with. The chymical analysis of the poisons of snakes and other venomous animals, has discovered them to be of an acid nature; and from this knowledge, remedies of an alkaline description have been recommended, to correct and obviate by decomposition their virulent effects. Tontana, an Italian chymist, who sacrificed many hun- dred vipers to his experiments, found the poison of a viper to be of a gummy nature, and to resemble in a great measure a solution of gum arabic; to be of a yellow colour, to have no taste, and when applied to the tongue, to produce a numbness. In the event of a person being bit by a snake, no time should be lost in applying the proper remedies. The indications of cure should be three. 1st, In preventing the poison entering into the constitution of the body; 2d, The withdrawing or destroying the poison in the wound; 3d, The counteracting its baneful effects when it has en- tered the system. The first of these is to be effected by tying a very tight ligature, or garter twisted with a stick, above the wound about five or six inches, or over the first joint of the limbs ; by these means the poisonous liquid may be prevented entering the circulation.