230 Caution. had cleaned, were untouched by the caterpillars; on the contrary, the leaves of those boughs I had not cleaned, were soon consumed by them. " These facts being stated, the following remarks are naturally suggested. First, that the eggs of the caterpil- lars lie, during the winter, concealed in such trees as are overgrown with moss, between the moss and the rind, or, where the rind is decayed, in the cavities occasioned by such decay; a circumstance which, with the assistance of a microscope, I have since ascertained; but through mere neglect, having not preserved the eggs for future obser- vation, I cannot say determinately they were the eggs of the caterpillar; but this I can say, that the removal of those eggs prevented the leaves of the tree from being eaten. Secondly, that the proper time for destroying them would be before the eggs are hatched; for by the time the caterpillar is come out, the buds begin to open, and of course become its immediate prey; and as the butterfly tribe are so numerous and so perfectly free from restraint, the nature of the case will require an annual search to be made in such places as are thought favourable to them for depositing their eggs: there will be often found full-grown trees, which by being encum- bered with branches, the power of the sun is not admitted to shrivel the old rind as the new one is forming; conse- quently such trees become encrusted with decayed coats, the fit receptacles for preserving the embryo caterpillars; and such trees whose wounds have been suffered to heal, so as to form an hollow, retaining moisture, which cankers the wood, and renders it easily perforated by the fly, are likewise liable to become a prey to the insects they have preserved." CAUTION. By an Act passed 55 Geo. III. cap. 137, it is enacted, " That after the 25th day of March, 1816, no church- warden, overseer of the poor, or other person having the management of the poor, shall furnish or supply for his or their own profit, any articles or provisions for the sup- port of the poor, under the penalty of 100Z.;" with an exception, in case there should not be a person competent or willing to undertake it, in the parish.