MeChtimcs, Lahuttrcrs, 8$. i r>;i The name of mercurial pal* f has been assigned to the disease which seems more peculiar to the workmen who employ this metal; and this arises very seldom, if ever, from the exhibition of mercury as a medicine. Mode of Attack and Symptoms of Mercurial Palsy, #c. The attack of the mercurial palsy is sometimes sudden; its approaches, however, are more frequently very gradual: at first the workman has less controul than usual over his arms; these are subject to slight convulsive snatches; they become agitated, and at length they are in a continual state of tremor, which continues to increase in intensity if the individual still persist in his employment, and spreads from the arras, which it first attacks, to the legs, and finally to the whole body. The patient is unable to execute perfectly any of the functions which require a certain exertion of muscular power, such as locomotion, mastication, any labour of the hands, &c. To these sometimes succeed pains in the bowels, restlessness, anxiety, delirium, &c. The latter, after a time, appears to become more settled, and the patient will often live for twenty years, utterly unable to make any useful exertion from the tremor, although in other respects he may enjoy tolerable good health. History of a Case of Mercurial Palsy, fyc. The following account of an instance of this disease, which occurred in a man of sixty-two years of age, and with whom it had endured twenty-five years, related in the London Medical Repository, will convey a better idea of it, than any more general description. " At the time we saw him, all the voluntary muscles were violently agitated, so that every attempt to speak was interrupted by the spasmodic contractions of the jaw and tongue. His head was in a continual see-saw ; he could not hold any tiling in his hands, and seemed to have no power whatever over them. Any attempt to obtain any controul over his muscles invariably rendered the con- vulsions more violent. Mental agitation increased them. His teeth had been lost many years, but had fallen out without being decayed; his appetite was good, and his sleep sound. His evacuations were voluntary." The disease, in this individual, it appears, had com- menced after gilding one year, with a shaking in one knee, whence it had spread to the rest of the body. He con- tinued, however, to work for seven years, but during that time was frequently obliged to take a glass of rum to keep his hands steady; " and he now finds his tremors less after taking more ale or spirits than usual ; but when the