Miscellaneous Observations on Weak Eyes. 115 uncommonly stimulating and fatiguing. Candles have this advantage over lamps, that their light is less offen- sive to the eye, and less pernicious to the lungs ; as they do not, in general, emit so much smoke. But, on the other hand, all candles have the following disadvantages: 1. That by their burning downward, the fatigued eye is progressively more strained in the later hours of candle- light;—2. That the unequal light they give, is attended with the additional trouble of snuffing them; — and, 8. That by the least commotion of the air, or, if made of bad materials, they offend the eye by their flaring light. Hence, a clear chamber-lamp, burning with the least possible smoke and smell, is far preferable, and more soothing to the eye, than even wax candles. Some of the lately improved patent lamps, originally contrived by M. D. Argent, in Switzerland, are well calculated to answer every useful purpose; but instead of the common round screens, we would recommend the one we are about to describe. Those screens are the best, which are applied to one side of the light only, which is not larger than is necessary to cover the flame, and which still admit a small quantity of light to pass through them. This is obtained by a simple contrivance of taffety, slightly gummed, and folded so that it can be carried about in the pocket. These little screens are very convenient in travelling, and are possessed of the essential advantage, that they over- shade only the small angle formed for the individual who is affected with weak eyes, without depriving the rest of the company of light. In the day-time, on the occasion of sealing letters, for instance, the light of a candle or taper is more prejudicial to the eye than in the evening. Miscellaneous Observations on Weak Eyes. The eyes should not be too much exerted immediately after rising in the morning. Hence it is advisable to re- move the candle to some distance, and under shade, in the long winter mornings, till the eye be gradually accus- tomed to it. For the same reason, the window-shutters ought not to be opened in very bright day-light. This immediate change, from darkness to the clearest light, occasions sensible pain, even to the strongest eye. Writing fatigueth eyes less than reading; for the letters we form on the paper, are previously imprinted on the imagination, and consequently require much less acute- Q 2