128 Housekeeping and Hnslxnidrij. lowing of even fluids, with vomitings, extreme anxiety, and fever, are symptoms of inflammation of the stomach. Pain at the bottom op the Belly, in Females, with heat, swelling, and tenderness on pressure, frequent vomitings and fever, are symptoms of inflammation of the womb. Darting in the region of the womb, generally accompanies a schirrous or cancerous state. ?|tt>u0e&eepmg and ^usfmntirp.—No. II, House-keeping and husbandry, if it be good, Must love one another as cousins in blood ; The wife too must husband, as well as the man; Or farewell thy husbandry, do what thou can. Directions for Cooking and preparing Vegetables for the Table (from the Cook's Oracle). There is nothing in which the difference between an elegant and an ordinary table is more seen, than in the dressing of vegetables, more especially of greens:. they may be equally as fine at first, at one place as at another; but their look and taste are afterwards very different, entirely from the careless way in which they have been cooked. They are in greatest perfection, when in greatest plenty, i. e. when in full season. JBy season, I do not mean those early days, that luxury in the buyers, and avarice in the sellers about London, force the various vegetables: but that time of the year in which by nature and common culture, and the mere operation of the sun and climate, they are in most plenty and perfection. Potatoes and peas are seldom worth eating before Midsummer. Unripe vegetables, are as insipid and un- wholesome as unripe fruits. As to the quality of vegetables, the middle size are pre^ ferred to the largest, or the smallest; they are more tender, juicy, and full of flavour, just before they are quite full grown: freshness is their chief value and excellence, and I should as soon think of roasting an animal alive, as of boiling a vegetable after it is dead. The eye easily discovers if they have been kept too long; they soon lose their beauty in all respects. Roots, greens, salads, &c, and the various productions