Mechanics, Labourers, fyc. 2m wood, pieces of stone, earth, or any other substance that may have been introduced by the violence of the act which caused the wound. Where there is much loss of blood, au attempt should be made to stop it with dry lint and compression above the part wounded, if the blood be of a florid red colour, and below, if of a dark colour. The reason for this distinction is obvious to those acquainted with the structure and functions of the human body; and those who are not, ought to be made acquainted with it, as early as possible. First then, the florid blood flows from the heart through the arteries, to be returned by the veins; where, immediately on its entering the extreme ends of these vessels, it changes to a dark colour. Hence arte- rial blood and venous blood flow in different directions, in separate vessels ; the first coming from the heart, the other returning to it. The colour of the latter is dark, that of the former florid red. In proportion to the importance of the part wounded, will be the degree of the discharge of blood, and the sub- sequent tendency to inflammation, and its consequences. Method of stopping Blood in consequence of a Wound. If an important part be severely wounded, such as any part of the arms, legs, or thighs., attended with a pro- fuse discharge of blood, compression, until a surgeon arrives, should be made by the by-standers, in the fol- lowing manner, by means of a bandage, garter, or hand- kerchief ; viz. tie it loosely round the limb, and introduce a piece of stick, sufficiently strong for the purpose, about a foot long, and twist it round, tight enough to check the discharge. Dressing of Wounds. The first dressing to recent wounds, after stopping the blood by means of styptics, or tying the vessel, should it be necessary, is dry lint, covered with tow or linen cloth. This dressing should be suffered to remain for three days. It should then be removed, and afterwards dressed ac- cordingly, by promoting suppuration, incarnation, &c. once or twice a day. This is the manner of treating a lacerated wound, or an incised wound that has not united in the first instance, by what surgeons call the adhesive inflammation, which, in the latter case, should always be attempted, by bringing the edges closely in contact, by means of adhesive plaster. If there be considerable inflammation attendant upon a