190 Housekeeping and Husbandry. boiling, the loss is occasioned partly by the fat melted out, but chiefly from gelatine and osmazome dissolved in the water in which the meat is boiled; there is, there- fore, a real loss of nourishment, unless the broth be used, when this mode of cooking becomes the most profitable, as well as the most economical. Vegetable substances (see page 128) are most com- monly boiled or baked ; or, if apparently fried or roasted, there is always much water present, which prevents the greater action of the fire from penetrating below the sur- face. The universal effect of cooking upon vegetable sub- stances, is to dissolve some of their constituents in the water, such as the mucilage and starch, and to render those that are not properly soluble, as the gluten and the fibre, softer and more pulpyj consequently easier of di- gestion.—(Forsyth's Natural and Medical Dieteticon; or Practical Rules for Eating and Drinking, fyc.) l^ouj&efceepmg; anD f^uatfmntirp.—No. III. House-keeping and husbandry, if it be good, Must love one another as cousins in blood; The wife too must husband, as well as the man ; Or farewell thy husbandry, dp what thou can. ADVICE TO COOKS. Broths and Soups. The cook must pay continual attention to the con- dition of her stewpans* and soup-kettles, &c. which should be examined every time they are used. The pru- dent housewife will carefully examine the condition of them herself, at least once a month. Their covers also must be kept perfectly clean and well tinned, and the stewpans not only on the inside, but about a couple of inches on the outside: many mischiefs arise from their getting out of repair, and if not kept nicely tinned, all your good work will be in vain; the broths and soups will look green and dirty, taste bitter and poisonous, and will * We prefer the form of a stewpan to the soup-pot; the former is more con- venient to skim ; the most useful size is twelve inches diameter by six indies deep ; this we would have of silver, or iron, or copper lined (not plated) with silver..