587 Laws respecting Servants. only by all persons in service, but by masters and mis- tresses also. A servant setting fire carelessly to a house, is liable to pay, on the oath of one witness, a hundred pounds to the sufferer, or be committed to prison and hard labour for eighteen months. 14 Geo. 3, c. 48. Where servants are hired by the year, they cannot be put away before the expiration of that term, without some reasonable cause to be allowed by one magistrate; nor after the ending of the term, without a quarter's warning, given before witness. If a master discharge a servant otherwise, he is liable to a penalty of forty shillings. 5 Eliz. c. 4. If a servant refuse to serve his term, he may be com- mitted till he give security to serve the time; or he may be sent to the House of Correction, and punished there as a disorderly person. 5 Eliz. c. 4; 7 Jac. c. 4. A yearly servant is not to be discharged, by reason of sickness, or any other disability by the act of God; nor may his wages be abated. Dalt. 129. All hiring, without stipulation of time, is, strictly speaking, hiring for a year, and the law so construes it. 2 Inst. 42. Both master and servant may, however, part by mutual consent. A master detaining a servant's wages, or not allowing sufficient meat, drink, &c. is a good cause for a servant's leaving his place, but it must be allowed by a justice of peace. Dalt. If a servant hired for a term, quit nis service before the end of it, he loses all his wages, unless his master puts him away. A woman servant, who marries, is obliged to serve out her time ; and, if both man and wife are servants by the year, they must both serve their time. Dalt. 92. Should a woman with child hire herself for a term, and the master she hires with knew not of her being with child, he may discharge her, but before a magistrate. If she prove with child during her service, he may do the same; but if he do not discharge her before a magistrate, when he knows of it, and keeps her on, he must provide for her till her delivery, and one month after, and then she is to be sent to her place of settlement. Dalt. A servant hired at a month's wages, or warning, cannot quit his place, or be discharged a day before the expira- tion of the month, without the whole month's wages be