338 Prevention tind Treatment of Hydrophobia, is bitten by a mad dog, his death-warrant is signed, and his dissolution soon follows. The law is left to take its course; nor can all the boast of empiricism, the pomp of splendid equipages, and high sounding names, respite the unhappy victim a moment from the grave beyond the de- voted period. All prognostics are unfavourable: death commonly takes place about the third or fourth day from the first appearance of the symptoms. This then, it would appear, is all we know about hydrophobia. On this subject we will state briefly our opinion; and in so far as we concur in the belief, that early excision of the bitten part is the surest method of preventing the fatal consequences, it has, with some modifications, our warmest support. Mercury, arsenic, opium, musk, cam- phor, acid, wine, vegetable and mineral acids (internally), oil, various herbs, and many other remedies whose effects are diametrically opposite in their nature, have all been adopted in vain. Large blood-lettings, the cold and warm bath, injecting water into the veins; everything,, in short, has been tried without effect: nor is this much to be wondered at. Disease is easier prevented than cured, when it lias once set in. In the first place, the bitten part, as soon after the accident as possible, should be completely cut out; it should then be suffered to bleed, and the bleeding pro- moted by warm affusions ; and, after this has been prac- tised for some time, a cupping-glass is to be applied over the part, and suffered to remain until it produce visible effects of its exhausting power. The wound then, on the removal of the cupping-glass, may be washed with a weak solution of muriatic acid (forty drops to a pint of water), three or four times a day, and a piece of rag, or lint,, moistened in the same, left applied on the part. Should some degree of inflammation ensue, as most likely will be the case, the solution may then be laid aside; the Wound may now be dressed with dry lint, and warm poultices applied until suppuration be promoted. When: this is effected, the wound may be healed in the usual way. During this treatment, the patient is recommended to take two of the following pills, at bed-time, every Bight, for three weeks or a month after the accident: Take Blue pill, - ' - - - - 1 drachm. Powdered rhubarb, - - - 2 scruples. I ... ,! .Extract of hemlock, - - - - 10 grains* .. Make 30 pills, to be taken as, above.