Practical Observations on Domestic Economy, tyc. 31 tion to economy is at all times necessary, the following calculations may therefore be found useful. We premise, however, that in forming these estimates, no line is drawn for the poor*; and as those with large fortunes are com- paratively few, we have the less occasion to write for them; but the middling classes of society may find our hints useful. Should any calculation be thought too great or too small, it should be remembered, that our wants are different; some choosing one thing, some another. And never let the maxim in economy be forgotten, that as things grow dearer, if we cannot increase our income, and wish to be at ease, we must diminish our expences. Bread.—Each person eats, on an average, about three- quarters of a pound daily ; so that nine quartern loaves, for seven persons, per week, are ample. Butter.—Three-quarters of a pound for each person per week, allowing for melting, will be found ample. Sugar.—The same as butter. Tea.—Two ounces per head weekly, are ample.—Here we cannot avoid observing, that if half the expence of tea were laid out in milk, and milk and water drunk, in- stead of tea, that it would be more economical, and we believe equally more wholesome. Malt Liquor.—A quart daily for each person, will be found enough. Meat or Fish.—One pound weight daily, is a full allow- ance, both for dinner and supper, for each person. If any vegetables are eaten, the quantity of meat will be less: so that the value of one pound of meat, will be sufficient for both meat and vegetables. Vegetables.—The expence of these will vary according to the season of the year. Potatoes are, however, a standing dish, and from one pound to a pound and a half of these, will be an ample allowance for each person for dinner. Of vegetables, and indeed every other article in domestic economy, it may be observed, that they ought to be purchased with ready money, and at such times as they are cheapest. A winter stock of both potatoes and coals, ought always to be laid in at that season when they can be bought cheapest and best. Coals.—A moderate fire in a proper grate, may be kept Ah we proceed, practical estimates on a smaller scale will be given, to shew not only how people may live who have the means, but how those can live, comparatively comfortable, whose incomes arc more limited, by cconoimca!, not by parsimonious rules. 4