Secrets of Trade. 60 and impaired powers of recollection, threatens apoplectic or paralytic attacks. Hands and Feet swelling, in small-pox, as the swelling of the head and face subsides, is a favourable symptom. Head-ach, continuing with violence through the course of fever, shews that a fatal termination is to be apprehended.—Head-ach with giddiness, sickness, and loss of appetite, but without fever, accompanies foulness of the stomach.—With redness of the face and eyes, and fever, are symptoms of inflammation of the brain;—ac- companying inflammation of the eyes, is in general a mark of da.nger;—with eructations, and loss of appetite, points out indigestion;—with pain and tension at the pit of the stomach, generally proceeds from wind pent up in the stomach;—when accompanied by a costive state of the bowels, may be attributed to that circumstance;—with florid countenance, and a full, sluggish pulse, may arise from fullness of blood;—with chilliness, slight shiverings, and great lassitude, generally distinguish the commence- ment of fever. J^ecretsi of ^tafce; OR, ANALYTICAL HISTORY OF ALL PATENT MEDICINES, COSMETICS, AND OTHER QUACK NOSTRA: Shewing their various Ingredients, Proportions, Medicinal Properties, J)oses, 8?c. with proper Cautions, fyc. A AGUE DROP—SOLUTION OF ARSENIC. This is a solution of the arsenite of potass, coloured and flavoured by the compound spirit of lavender, a fluid drachm of which contains half a grain of arsenious acid. It was introduced into practice by Dr. Fowler of Stafford, as a substitute for the empirical remedy known by the name of the "Tasteless Ague Drop." It is a powerful tonic, and has been successfully administered in the cure of intermittent and remittent fevers, periodical head- aches, and as an alterative in many anomalous diseases of the skin. It has also been given with decided effect in certain visceral obstructions; its use, however, is to a great degree empirical, although it is generally observed, that wherever strong arterial action exists, arsenic will