96 Directions for the Management of a Cottager's Garden j raking, sow some more earth over them, and always get the best seeds. Greens.—The best winter greens for a cottager are the Savoy, Brussels sprout, green borecole or Scotch kale, and the buda kale, called also the Manchester, Russian, and Prussian kale ; these four sorts will keep a constant succession from November till May; the three first should be sown towards the end of March, and the stronger plants be planted out in June, the rest in July. The buda kale should be sown in the middle of May, and planted out in July; the Scotch kale is easily cultivated, will stand severe frosts, and is the best sort for those who have only room for one kind of winter greens. Greens, to plant out in the spring, should be sown in August. In spring, in order to make the most of jyour ground, as fast as you cut greens, plant more, or other spring crops. Cabbages.—The best sorts are, early and late Yorks, early Russian for spring use, and early and late sugar-loaf. Early cabbages should be planted in February, first or second week of May, and the two last weeks of August. Early sugar-loaf cabbages, lor summer and autumn use, should be sown in the third or fourth week of March; late cabbages should be planted in February, and in August to plant out in the spring. Turnips.—The best sorts are early Dutch and stone; they should be sown the end of March or the beginning of April: a little radish seed sown with them, will keep the fly away. Carrots.—The best sorts are, Altringham and orange. Carrots should be sown in March. Brocoli.—The latest green or Danish, if sown the end of April, will head in May, and survive the severest winter. Peas.—The Charlton, blue Prussian, and dwarf mar- row. Sow peas and beans in the third or fourth week of February; and in April, a few days before you sow them, stir in amongst them a little train oil, and vermin will not attack them. Beans.—Early and .large long pods, Sandwich toker, and broad Spanish. Scarlet runners should be sown in May: pick olf the tops of beans as soon as the lowest blossoms are in full flower. Onions and Leeks.—In the beginning of March, sow Strasburg, Deptford, and white Spanish. — Cottager's Friendly Guide.