197. Amulets for Ague, and other Diseases,. they can do no harm. Lord Bacon, whom no one, can suspect of being an ignorant man, says that, , if a man wear a bone ring, or a planet seal, strongly believing, by that means, that he might .obtain his mistress, or that it would preserve him unhurt at sea, or in battle, it would probably make him more active and less timid; as the audacity they might inspire, would conquer and bind weaker minds in the execution of a perilous duty. , Amulets for Ague, and other Diseases. There are a variety of amulets used by the common people for the cure of ague; and however this may be accounted for, whether by the imagination, or the disease subsiding of its own accord, many have been apparently cured by them, when the Peruvian bark had previously failed. Ague, says Dr. Willis, resisting, amulets have often been applied to the waist with success. Abracadabra, written in a conical form, i. e. in the shape of an isoceles triangle, beginning with A, then AB, ABR, and so on, and placed under each other, will have a good effect. The herb Lunaria, gathered by moonlight, we are assured by very respectable authorities, has performed some sur- prising cures. Naaman, we are told, (numero deus im- pare gaudet), was cured by dipping seven times; in the river Jordan. An old gentleman of eighty years of age, who had nearly exhausted his substance upon physicians, was cured of a strangury by a new glass bottle that had never been wet inside, only by making water in it, and burying it in the earth. There were also certain forma- lities performed at the pool of Bethseda, for the cure of diseases. Dr. Chamberlayne's anodyne necklace for a long time was the sine qua non of mothers and nurses, until its virtue was lost by its reverence being destroyed ; and those which have succeeded it, have nearly run their race. The grey liverwort was at one time thought not only to have cured hydrophobia, but, by having it about the person, to have prevented mad dogs from biting them. Calvert paid devotion to St. Hubert for the reco- very of his son, who was cured by this means. The son also performed the necessary rites at the shrine, and was cured not only of the hydrophobia, " but of the worser phrensy with which his father had instilled him." Cramp- rings were also used, and eel-skins tied round the limbs, to prevent this spasmodic affection; and also by laying