58 TJie Philosophy of Dreams—N'ujhi-Mare. subject of sleep, among other maxims, have strongly recommended, before lying- down, to divest the mind, as far as possible, of thought, and all other circumstances that can shock the imagination, or leave impressions that may tend to disturb the rest; which also, at night, is often prevented by too intense application to one subject or other, requiring the exercise of the mind, when the object applied to is not varied, so as to afford some relaxation to the mental faculties. Sleep may likewise be molested by a number of incidental circumstances, as noise—light—sleeping in a new apartment—having slept during the day—repelled perspiration, owing to being im- properly covered with bed-clothes—cramps—mental dis- quietude—dreams—the night-mare—sleep-walking, &c. The Philosophy of Dreams. Dreams are ably described, as comprehending all those thoughts which people feel passing through their minds, and those imaginary transactions in which they often find themselves engaged when in a state of sleep. There is great uncertainty with respect to the manner in which our powers of body and mind perform their functions in dreaming; but, in general, it may be observed, that our dreams are affected by the state of our health; by the manner in which we have passed the preceding day ; by the general habits of life; by the hopes we most fondly indulge, and the fears by which our fortitude is most apt to be affected, when we awake. Our dreams may there- fore be applied to useful purposes. We may learn from them, to correct many improprieties in our conduct; to refrain from meat, or drink, or exercises, which have un- favourable effects on our constitution; to resist, indue time, evil habits that are stealing upon us ; and to guard against hopes and fears, which detach us from our proper concerns, and unfit us for the duties of life. Above all, we ought to remember, that the sleep of health and inno- cence is sound and refreshing, and the dreams pleasing and delightful; whereas a distempered body, and a pol- luted or disturbed mind, are haunted, during sleep, with dreams impure, unpleasing, and frightful. Night-Mare. This distressing affection is, for the most part, a result of indigestion, and by eating too much, particularly of flesh meat, at supper. It is also not unfrcquently caused