Plain Directions for Family-brewing. 457 flavour and colour. Amber is the most wholesome, and I would recommend to use nothing else. In consequence of the subtleness of the essentia, which keeps continually swimming in the beer, porter requires a considerable body of finings; but should any of my readers choose to brew without essentia, with amber malt, and with colour only, their porter will refine of itself very soon. Some, however, will perhaps follow the exact receipt, and therefore I mention that finings arc composed of isinglass dissolved in stale beer, till the whole comes to a thin gluey con- sistence like size, and which must be used discretionally; one pint is the usual proportion to a barrel, but sometimes two, and even three, are found necessary. Particular care must be taken that the stale beer in which the isinglass is dissolved be perfectly clear and thoroughly stale. By attending to these directions, any person may brew*, as good, if not better porter than can be supplied from the publicans. Many notions have been artfully raised in the public mind, that porter requires to be brewed in large quantities, and to be long stored to render it sound and strong; but let any impartial person give this receipt and these rules a fair trial, and experience, the surest of all guides, and the best of all instructors, will prove the falsehood of those prejudiced conceptions, which have had their origin with the ignorant, and have been cherished by the interested. One brewing under another will afford ample time for porter to refine for use, and every person can best judge of the extent of his consumption. Porter is not the better for being brewed in large quantities, except that the same trouble which brews a peck will brew a bushel; and it is known by experience, that a peck of malt brewed over a fire in a kettle or a saucepan, under the guidance of these rules, will produce porter as good and as wholesome as that which is usually paid for at the public-house; and if but one industrious family in ten throughout this great metropolis, and in the many large towns where porter is now brewed, is induced to try the experiment, I have no doubt of their continuing them- selves, and recommending to others, a practice which will be found simple and easy in its operations, essentially useful in point of health and convenience, and extremely moderate in point of trouble and expence. Having thus clearly explained the nature, ingredients, and composition of porter, together with a certain method of brewing it, even in the smallest quantity, I shall givo 3 m 2