2<)7 PRESCRIPTIONS. Female Pills, Take Aloes, - - - " 1 drachm. Calomel, - - - - 1 scruple. Make twenty pills ; one, two, or three may be taken for a dose, according to constitution. Baillie. Gout. Take Long pepper, - - - 12 grams. Aromatic confection, - - 1 scruple. Simple peppermint-water, - % ounce. Nutmeg-water, - 2 drachms. Mix, and make a draught; to be taken every sixth hour. Wilson. Sir Edward Wilmot's Prescription for Gout. Take Raleigh's confection, - - 1 scruple. Steel prepared with sulphur, - 7 grains. Black pepper, - - - 8 grains. Syrup of ginger, as much as sufficient to make a bolus. To be taken every six hours, and washed down with three table spoonfuls of the following mixture, e. g. • Take Simple peppermint-water, - -6 ounces. Simple cinnamon-water 1 q{ each 2 ounceg- Eaton s styptic tincture*, J Refined sugar, - - - 2 drachms. Make a mixture. Dr. Hartley's, for the same. Take Cardiac confection, - 1 q{ each 1§ drachm< Aromatic species, J z Syrup of ginger, - - - 6 drachms. Orange-peel water "I Gf each 2 ounces. Simple cinnamon-water, J Make a mixture; of which take three table spoonfuls occasionally, for gout in the stomach, and the sickness or fainting fits usual in that dis- order. Cataplasm in Gout. Take Mustard-seed, bruised, "} , , ~ Horse-radish, scraped small, / of each 6 ounces« Strong vinegar, as much as is sufficient to make the above into the consistence of a poultice. Dr. R. Taylor. (To be applied to the soles of the feet in wandering gout.) To prevent Costiveness in Gout. 1. Take The vinous tincture of rhubarb, - 2 ounces. Aromatic tincture, - - - 1 drachm. Mix for a draught; to be taken when a motion is wanted. Or, 2. Take Compound tincture of aloes, - 1^ ounce. Compound spirit of lavender, - 1 drachm. Mix for a draught; to be taken every other morning. Saunders. Powder of the Extract of Monkshood. Take Extract of Wolfsbane, - I grain. Liquoricc-root, powdered, - - 10 grains. Make a powder; to be taken twice or three times daily. Stoerck. fin gout and rheumatism). * Calcined green vitriol, I drachm—proof spirit, tinged yellow with a little oak-bark.