Corns. 314 making its lirst appearance in the latter end of May, and retreating- about the middle of September. This toad, there is reason to believe, distinguished the persons of the family, who daily fed it, from strangers, as it would permit them to pat and stroke it. To try the indiscrimi- nating appetite of these animals, the writer has dropped before a full grown toad, a young one of its own species, about three-fourths of an inch long, and the instant it began to move off, it was eagerly struck at and swal- lowed; but the writer, in repeating this experiment, found that more will refuse than devour the young of their own species. When living minnows (Cyprinus PhoxinusJ were dropped before a toad, they were struck at and swallowed in the same manner. These experi- ments were made on toads at full liberty, and met with accidentally. Toads generally return to their winter quarters about the time that swallows disappear. The writer, on such occasions, has seen them burrowing in the ground backwards, by the alternate motion of their hind legs.—Letter from Mr. Fotliergill to Dr. Sims, F. L. S. CORNS. The hardness upon the toes, and other parts of the feet, are, in general, too familiar to most of our readers to require description. The cure, however, will be ne- cessary to dwell a little upon. When corns become large and painful, they ought to be pared closely down with a sharp knife or razor, and the centre hard point detached without giving pain. Previous to this operation, the feet should be kept in warm water for half an hour, in order to soften the parts, to render them more free to the knife; a plaster of ammoniac, with mercury, spread upon linen, applied round the toe, and continued upon it for a fortnight, when it should be taken off; the feet again bathed for half an hour, in warm water, and (he corns again cut, when a similar plaster should be applied. Some have found great success in merely cutting the corns, as above described, and putting their feet in warm water, every night, for a month, cutting their corns when- ever they appeared, but wearing no plaster. It is need-i Jess to mention that tight shoes must not be worn.