THE WAV TO WEALTH. In the Life of the late Dr. Benjamin Franklin, there is a small Publication by that great Philosopher, which has been read by his Countrymen and many others with much avidity and profit. This Piece is entitled, " The Way to Wealth, as clearly shewn in the Preface to an old Pensylvanian Alma- nack, entitled 'Poor Richard Improved;'" and as the many excellent Maxims it contains,* are admirably calculated to excite and enforce Habits of Industry and Frugality, we beg leave to subjoin it, for the perusal and practice of the Readers of the Cottage Physician, fyc. . ' COURTEOUS READER, * I have heard that nothing gives an author so great pleasure as to find his works respectfully quoted by others. Judge, then, how much I must have been gratified by an incident 1 am going to relate to you. I stopped my horse lately, where a great number of people were collected' at an auction of merchants' goods. The hour of sale not being come, they were conversing on the badness of the times; and one of the company called to a plain, clean old man, with white locks, * Pray, Father Abraham, what think you of the times ? Will not these heavy taxes quite ruin the country ? How shall we be ever able to pay them? What would you advise us to?'—Father Abraham stood up, and replied, ' If you would have my advice, I will give it you in short, " for a word to the wise is enough," as Poor Richard says.' They joined in desiring him to speak his mind, and, gathering round him, he proceeded as follows* : ' Friends,' says he, ' the taxes are indeed very heavy; and if those laid on by the government were the only ones we had to pay, we might more easily discharge them; but we have many others, and much more grievous to some of us. We are taxed twice as much by our idle- ness, three times as much by our pride, and four times as much by our folly; and from these taxes the commis- sioners cannot ease or deliver us, by allowing an abate- ment. However, let us hearken to good advice, and something may be done for us: " God helps them that help themselves," as Poor Richard says. * Dr. Franklin, wishing to collect into one piece all the sayings upon the following subjects, which lie had dropped in the course of publishing the Alma- nack, called " Poor Richard," introduced Father Abraham for this put|>ose. Hence it is, that Poor Richard is often quoted, and that, in the prcscut title, he is tfaid to be improved. D d 2