Means of procuring Sleep. by sleeping with the head too low, and laying on the back, the weight of the bed-clothes bearing on the breast. From whatever cause it proceeds, it is uniformly accom- panied with great terror, and a sense of suffocation, ex- citing sensations of the most excruciating nature. Darwin observes, in Vol. II. p. 403, of his Zoonomia, that great fatigue, with a full supper and much wine, is apt to produce night-mare. The remedies are—the use of the bath, to take little or no supper; and to sleep on a hard bed with the head raised. By the hardness of the bed, the patient will be apt to turn himself more fre- quently, and will not be liable to sleep too profoundly, or lie too long in one posture. If it be necessary, he ought to be frequently awakened by an alarum clock. Somnabulism; or Sleep-Walking, Many well-authenticated instances are recorded, of persons quitting their bed-rooms, and, in the midst of their sleep exposing themselves to great dangers; and not unfrequently terminating fatally. Means of procuring Sleep . Sleep, " tired Nature's sweet restorer," cannot safely be dispensed with for any considerable length of time. When its accustomed visits are not paid, the whole frame is deranged from head to foot. It is often in vain that every means are resorted to for the purpose of courting its balmy influence—it evades like a fleeting vision : " And in the calmest and the stillest night, With all appliances and means to boot, Denies it to a king." In the celebrated case of Lord Lyttelton, as related by his physician, the want of sleep appears to have been the cause of his death; and Tissot proves, by a multi- tude of facts, that intense thought destroys the aptitude for sleep; and that it much imports studious characters to restrict their learned labours to proper hours, to sup- port their strength by intervals of exercise in the open air; and, above all, to solicit sleep, by a seasonable dis- missal of business and of care. The circumstances which principally contribute to pro- cure or promote sleep, are, air, labour, or exercise, diet, medicine, useful habits, resolution of mind, machinery, application of heat, application of cold, electricity, regu- lar hours, &c. i 2