18<; Preparation of Food, £r. letter pass free to a member, unless directed to his house, or the place where he is.—Counterfeiting super- scriptions, is transportation for seven years. Assessed Taxes. Duty on Dogs.—As a rigid enforcement of this duty is likely to take place, in consequence of the numerous fatal accidents from hydrophobia, the particulars thereof may be acceptable to such as intend to keep these fa- vourite animals. For every greyhound, kept by any person, whether his property or not, 1L—For every hound, pointer, setting dog, spaniel, lurcher, or terrier, and for every dog of whatever denomination the same may be, except grey- hounds, where any person shall keep two or more dogs for his own use, or the use of any other person, the annual sum of 145.—For every dog not being such as aforesaid, kept by any person having one such dog and no more, whether the same be kept for his own use, or the use of any other person, the annual sum of 8*. Eut this duty is not to extend to dogs not six months old ; the proof of which to lie on the owner. Persons compounding for their hounds, to be charged 367. PREPARATION OF FOOD, CONNECTED WITH COOKERY AND ITS PROCESSES, FUEL, &c. For the purpose of food, all alimentary substances arc used in their raw or crude state, or after having under- gone some kind of preparation. Fruits and salads, though they admit of s arious forms of cookery, are, for the most part, eaten in as fresh and natural a state as possible. Cookery is either necessary to destroy some deleterious property, or to render food more palatable and nutritious. Of the former effect, the most remarkable instance is furnished by various species of arum, which, in their crude state, are acrid, or even poisonous, but by being cooked, become mild and wholesome. The acrimony resides in a very volatile principle, which is easily dissi- pated by heat. A more familiar example in this country is furnished by the onion tribe*, the acrimony and flavour * Onions, says Dr. Cullcn, are acrid and stimulating, and possess very little nutriment. Willi bilious constitutions they generally produce flatulency, thirst, hcad-aehe, and febrile symptoms; but where the temperament is phlegmatic, they arc of infinite service, by stimulating the habit and promoting the natural