Housekeeping and Husbandry. 280 The delicacy and excellence of this elegant and inno- cent relish, depends upon the parsley being minced very fine; put it into a sauce-boat, and mix with it, by de- grees, about half a pint of good melted butter, only do not put much flour to it, as the parsley will add to its thickness: never pour parsley and butter over boiled things, but send it up in a boat. In French cookery books, this is called, "Melted But- ter, English Fashion;" and, with the addition of a slice of lemon cut into dice, a little allspice and vinegar, "Dutch Sauce." N. B. To preserve parsley through the winter, in May, June, or July, take fine fresh gathered sprigs, pick and wash them clean, set on a stewpan half full of water, put a little salt in it, boil and skim it clean, and then put in the parsley, and let it boil for a couple of minutes, and take it out, and lay it on a sieve before the fire, that jt may be dried as quick as possible ; put it by in a tin box, and keep it in a dry place; when you want it, lay it in a basin, and cover it with warm water a few minutes before you use it. Fennel and Butter for Mackarel, 8jc. Is prepared in the manner we have just described. For mackarel sauce, or boiled soles, &c. some people take equal parts of fennel and parsley; others add a sprig of mint, or a couple of young onions minced very fine. Mackarel Roe Sauce. Boil the roes of mackarel (soft roes are best), bruise them with a spoon with the yolk of an egg, beat up with a very little pepper and salt, and some fennel and parsley boiled and chopped very fine, mixed with almost half a pint of thin melted butter. Mushroom catsup, walnut pickle, or soy, may be added. Anchovy Sauce. Pound three anchovies in a mortar with a little bit of butter, rub it through a double hair sieve, with the back of a wooden spoon, and stir it into almost half a pint of melted butter, or stir in a table-spoonful of essence of anchovy.—To the above, many cooks add Jemon-juice and cayenne. Foreigners make this sauce with good brown sauce, or white sauce, instead of melted butter, and add to it