•f )S Baths, Wells, W aters, and Mineral Springs. of two wells, discovered about two centuries ago, since which the waters of it have been held in great estimation. One of these wells is more purgative, and the other more chalybeate; hence the latter, which is nearest the town, has been called the chalybeate spring, and the other the purgative, though both are impregnated with different proportions of the same principles. The aperient is that which usually goes by the name of the Scarborough water. It contains 52 grains of calcareous earth, 2 of ochre, and 266 of vitriolated magnesia, in each gallon of the water. The chalybeate, in the same quantity of water, has 70 grains of calcareous earth, 139 of vitriolated mag- nesia, and 11 of marine salt. When these waters are poured from one glass into another, they exhibit a number of air-bubbles, which affords a proof they contain a quantity of fixed air. At the fountain they both possess a brisk, pungent, chaly- beate taste; but the purgative is also somewhat bitter. The quantity usually drank at a time, is from two to four half-pints. These waters are found to be of service in hectic fevers, weakness or debility of the stomach, aris- ing from indigestion and its consequences, relaxations of the system, nervous disorders, green sickness, scurvy, rheumatism, asthma, in all preternatural evacuations, in gleets, fluor albus, &c, and in habitual costiveness; although the mode of exhibiting and varying them, will frequently depend upon professional judgment. The temperature of these springs is between forty-five and forty-six degrees, which is five less than the mean heat of springs in general. Salts are prepared from the purgative well, which are in considerable estimation as a gentle aperient. In the year 1737, this spa was nearly lost by a land-slip. HARROWGATE, or HARROGATE, Is chiefly resorted to by valetudinarians, who frequently derive health from its springs; and is annually visited by upwards of two thousand patients of this description. It lies two miles north-west of Knaresborough, and is about 212 miles distant from London, consisting of two scattered villages, distinguished by the names of High and Low Harrowgate, nearly a mile distant from each other, both built ou a common, yet possessing sufficient accommodation for company, who, mixing in friendly parties, enjoy more of the pleasures of social converse