£.\;my, pages and 6", '27 i> i>oti0e&eeping; and UmafcanDrp.—No. v. Housekeeping and husbandry, if it be good, Must love one another as cousins in blood; The wife too must husband, as well as the man ; Or farewell thy husbandry, do what thou can. BOILING*. This most simple of culinary processes is not often performed in perfection; it does not require quite so much nicety and attendance as roasting; to skim your pot well, and keep it really boiling (the slower the better) all the while—to know how long is required for doing the joint, &c. and to take it up at the critical moment when it is done enough—comprehends almost the whole art and mystery. This, however, demands a patient and perpetual vigilance, of which few persons are capable. The cook must take especial care that the water really boils all the while she is cooking, or she will be deceived in the time; and make up a sufficient fire (a frugal cook will manage with much less fire for boiling than she uses for roasting) at first, to last all the time, without much mending or stirring. * "The process by which food is most commonly prepared for the table— boiling—is so familiar to every one, and its effects are so uniform, and, ap- parently, so simple, that few, I believe, have taken the trouble to inquire how or in what manner those effects are produced, and whether any, and what, im- provements in that branch of cookery are possible. So little has this matter been an object of inquiry, that few, very few indeed, I believe, among the millions of persons who, for so many ages, have been daily employed in this process, have ever given themselves the trouble to bestow one serious thought on the subject. " Boiling cannot be carried on without a great expence of fuel; but any boiling-hot liquid (by using proper means for confining the heat) may be kept boiling-hot for any length of time, almost without any expence of fuel at all. " The waste of fuel in culinary processes, which arises from making liquids hoil unnecessarily, or when nothing more would be necessary than to keep them boiling hot, is enormous : I have not a doubt but that much more than half the fuel used in all the kitchens, public and private, in the whole world, is wasted precisely in this manner. But the evil does not stop here. This unscientific and slovenly manner of cooking, renders the process much more laborious and troublesome than otherwise it would be, and (what by many will be considered of more importance than either the waste of fuel, or the increase of labour to the cook) the food is rendered less savoury, and, very probably, less nourishing and less wholesome. " It is natural to suppose that many of the finer and more volatile parts of food (those which arc best calculated to act on the organs of taste) must be carried off with the steam, when the boiling is violent."—Count liumford's 10M