Directions for the Management of a Cottager's Garden. 95 have bad potatoes, is, because they take their sets from the small potatoes, thinking they will do as well to set; but to have a fine crop of potatoes, you should always take the eye from the middle of the best and finest pota- toes. The eyes at the top of the potatoe are the next best; the remainder of the potatoe will do to dress as well as any other. If your potatoes sprout when laid up for the winter, which they should not do, the shoots, if strong, will make good plants. With respect to laying up potatoes, the following method has been found to answer well: As early in October as they are ripe, dig them up as dry as possible, and lay them in a heap, ridged up and covered with straw; cover the straw with earth, thatch it with stubble or straw, and then again cover it with earth. In March or April, or soon after the first warm spring weather, take them out, and, if properly done, they will not have sprouted or cankered. The following are good sorts of potatoes:—for first early, Fox's seedling, and Early Manly; for second early, Nonsuch and Early Champion, particularly the last. Perhaps the best sort of all is a new one, called the Bread-fruit potatoe, with which Heligoland beans may be- profitably cultivated, by sowing them in the channels with the potatoes: they ripen at the same time, without injuring the crop of potatoes. This intermediate crop- ping will often be found profitable, and it admits of the spaces between being dug and manured, if necessary; thus, if Windsor peas and beans are sown at five feet distance in the rows, potatoes may be planted between them, which will fill the ground when the peas and beans are over. If early York and Battersea cabbage is planted thus, two rows at eighteen inches distance, and a space of three feet left between those and the next two, any spring crops, as leeks, kidney beans, lettuces, or peas, may be put between them. While potatoe plants are small, any quick growing crop may be planted in the spaces they will occupy when full grown. Early potatoes should be planted in the second or third week of March; some late potatoes should be planted the same time as the early ones, and the rest in April. Sowing.—It injures the crop, and makes a garden look very untidy, when the seed is sown unevenly: the best way to avoid this, is to make the bed very even; then sow the seed as regularly as possible, and, instead of