48G Sentence against an-apothecary. demands particular attention in the necessary works of planting, and propagating- many sorts of trees and shrubs; in continuing the preparation of ground lor these occa- sions, and forwarding the completion of the principal autumn planting; also in drawing various sorts of trees and shrubs for garden plantations: finishing the autumn sowing of tree and shrub seeds, and of making layers, planting cuttings, suckers, &c. likewise in removing plants in pots to shelter or warm situations for the winter, and in some other occasional works hereafter-mentioned. The Green-House.—The greenhouse plants being all housed for the winter, they require air admitted freely in mild days, and moderate supplies of water occasionally. As decayed leaves—will frequently occur, in many of the plants, constantly pick them oft'. If the earth in any of the pots crust or bind—stir and loosen the surface. Clean the leaves—of oranges, lemons, &c. if they become foul. Decayed shoots—when any occur, cut them cff. The Hot-House and Stove.—In the general hot- house, the pines and other plants of that department will now require the joint assistance of the continued bark-bed heat, and of evening and morning fires, with occasional admission of air moderately in fine sunny calm days, and some gentle waterings. SENTENCE AGAINST AN APOTHECARY. On the 12th of April, 1776, an Act of the Parliament of Provence sentenced an Apothecary to pay a fine of a thousand livres, and not to open his shop for three months, for having sold drugs to a woman, who died after having poisoned herself with them. Tt is to be desired, to pre- vent the frequent abuses which arise from the retailing noxious drugs, that the venders of them should be always punished with the greatest severity; and yet we witness frequent accidents of this description, without farther notice than some trifling animadversion made by the coroner who is called to hold an inquest, on the eftects of oxalic acid or other deleterious drugs, sold by mistake—a mistake, in fact, which ought to admit of no excuse; and one at least, that ought to su bject the offending party to a punishment as clearly allied to that of manslaughter, as the law could possibly make it.