260 Advice to Bathers, either in Salt or Fresh Water. also useful in gravel—jaundice—fistula in ano—and is an excellent purgative, when taken in sufficient quantity, in paralytic complaints. The external use of cold water affusion is of singular use in the treatment of scarlet fever at the commence- ment. It is also beneficial when applied to particular parts of the body, where its use may be continued much longer than the cold-bath, without danger. Cold affu- sions to the head are useful in many cases of those pain- ful and local affections which are the result of intoxica- tion ; and against too great a flow of blood towards the head, when persons are menaced with apoplexy, or sudden death, from the rupture of a blood vessel of the brain. Advice to Bathers, either in Salt or Fresh Water, fyc. People of delicate constitutions, or those much weak- ened from disease, ought not to bathe until the sun ap- proaches near to his meridian height; and, indeed, with those who enjoy a tolerable degree of health, it may not always be proper to bathe immediately after rising from bed in the morning, a time suitable to some constitu- tions, although not to others. There are a variety of circumstances here which require consideration. In sultry moist weather, bathing should be discontinued ; and patients in particular confined to their bed-chamber, with the windows of the apartment shut. A small clear fire would also be a recommendation, which, notwith- standing the state of the atmosphere, will not be found unacceptable to convalescents. Nothing can be more improper or inconsiderate than to immerse or to plunge the body hastily into cold water after a meal, when the stomach is loaded with food. The process of digestion by such means is interrupted so as with difficulty to ac- complish its object, independent of a variety of other inconveniences known to occur after such a premature step. People, therefore, of weak habits, should stay until the digestion of their first meal is nearly perfected before they venture into the water. Bathing dresses are too well known to need any de- scription of them here; they generally consist of porous flannel, open in front like a wrapper, with short wide sleeves, that the water may come in contact with every part of the body as speedily as possible. To convalc-