Wells, Waters, and Watering-Places. 253 Two or more children together, 9d. each. A gentleman without a guide, Is. Ditto, with a guide, ls. 6d. Two or more gentlemen, with a guide, Is. 3d. each. Ditto, without a guide, 9d. Warm-bath, 3s. Qd. each, or seven times for a guinea. General Sea-bathing Infirmary. Where cold-bathing, as is often the case, is inadmis- sible ; and in almost all cases where it is proper, a pre- paratory tepid bath is usually recommended; but as warm bathing is too expensive to come within the reach of the afflicted poor, some well-disposed persons, among whom was the late Dr. Lettsom, projected a Sea-bathing Infirmary, which was opened in 1790, under the patronage of his present Majesty King George IV. (then Prince of Wales), and the direction of a Committee. The building, which is neat and plain, is situated at West-brook, and is already liberally supported; which, no doubt, as in- cluding a comprehensive benevolence to the afflicted poor, it will continue to meet with increased patronage and support. RAMSGATE. The bathing-place lies in front of a long line of high chalky cliffs behind the pier, and is composed of a red- dish sand, soft and pleasant to the feet. The machines, though not so numerous, are plied here in the same man- ner as at Margate. The rooms for the accommodation of bathers are commodious; and Dyason, of the bath- house, has erected four warm salt-water baths, also a plunging bath, attached to which are equally convenient waiting and dressing rooms. The Isabella baths have been lately erected on the West Cliff, near the Paragon, for warm sea-water bathing. The building is situated 110 feet from the level of the sea; and the water is raised through a horizontal channel excavated in the rock, by means of pumps worked by horses. The baths, formed of white marble, are of the dimensions of the celebrated warm-baths of Naples. The shower-baths are constructed so as to be supplied with either hot or cold water. Vapour-baths, upon the principle of the Hon. Mr. Cochrane, are also included in this establishment. The whole are warmed by steam, brought from the outside of the building under the floors by means of pipes. An elegant vase in each dressing-room forms the receptacle; and, to add to other conveniences, the degree of heat of