Causes of Ungovernable Despondency, fyc. 409 of gloom and solitude j but, generally speaking, the feel- ing is more selfish, and the mind more hurriedj and daring despair, as it commonly shews itself, is utter hopeless- ness, from mortified pride, blasted expectations, or a sense of personal ruin; heart-ache is cither hopelessness from a sense of social bereavement, or relative ruin. The gamester, who cares for no one but himself, may rage with all the horror of despair; but the heart-ache belongs chiefly to the man of a warmer and more generous bosom, stung to the quick by a wound he least expected, or borne down, not by the loss of fortune, but of a dear friend or relative, in whom he had concentrated all his hopes. The well-known picture of Beverley is drawn by the hand of a master; and he is represented as maddened by the thought of the deep distress into which his last hazard had plunged his wife and family; but if his selfish love of gaming had not triumphed over his relative love for those he had thus ruined, he would not have been involved in any such reverse. While Beverley was in despair, it was his wife that was broken-hearted. Causes of Ungovernable Despondency, fyc. The sources of this most agonizing emotion are innu- merable ; and from the total shipwreck of all hope on which it is founded, there is no passion of the mind that drives a man so readily to an act of suicide. To live in horror—the infuriated suiFerer feels himself an outcast from God and man; and though his judgment may still be correct upon other subjects, it is completely over- powered upon that of his actual distress, and all he thinks of and aims at, is to withdraw, with as much speed as possible, from the present state of torture, totally regard- less of the future, or falsely satisfying himself by a perversion of his judgment, that there is no crime in his doing so.. One of the severest causes of despondency, is a con- science labouring under a deep sense of guilt for some undivulgcd crime Unwhipt of Justice. And so severe has the anguish been, in many cases, that the tormented wretch, thus haunted by himself, and hat- ing the light of Heaven, has been compelled, as the less evil of the two, to surrender himself to the laws of his country, and court the disgrace of a public execution. Yet the same ideal feeling has sometimes followed from 3 p 2