«340 Diagnostic Signs preceding or accoiUjuiAifing Diseases. recommend to those who keep dogs, and who are anxious to keep themselves and neighbours from harm, to supply them not only with plenty of water, but to keep them as clear of vermin, particularly during the dog-days, as possible; to give them, occasionally, a little brimstone and milk, and some of the worm medicines ; to turn thera into fields or grass-plots; and those that are fond of the water, to give them frequent opportunities of indulging in it. JBy these means, the risk of their becoming mad would> if not entirely prevented, be considerably lessened. It would be adviseable also, in those with shaggy coats, or thick-set hair, to relieve them, entirely of this unprofitable and unwelcome appendage, during the sultry weather, as it would grow fast enough to protect them from its incle- mency when it was wanted. Attention to cleanliness, diet, and the .trimming, muzzling, and otherwise ordering of these animals, must obviously render less all danger of their becoming mad—hence fewer of those melancholy scenes to which we have been forced to become witnesses* without the means of alleviation. How to Cure Mad Dogs. Dogs having symptoms of madness, ought not to be tampered with, with a view to curing theni—they should be immediately destroyed ; and however great the attach- ment of the master may be to the animal, it is a duty he owes to himself and (what is of far greater importance) to society, to dispatch it with all possible expedition; for this purpose, as the surest, safest, and most expedi- tious method, we would recommend immediate perfora-f tion through the head with a ball-cartridge, as. the only specific that can or ought to be depended upon. DIAGNOSTIC SIGNS, OR SYMPTOMS, PRECEDING OR ACCOMPANYING DISEASES. (Continuedfrom p. 272). Stomach, pain of,—may proceed from worms, ulcers, &c, A violent pain, with vomiting and fever, are symp- toms of inflammation of the stomach. Pain at the pit of the. stomach, with sickness, recurring at uncertain pe- riods, and succeeded by slight yellowness of the skin, accompanies the passing of gall-stones. Painful disten-.