301 Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. Yearly, for one person, - - £ 0 15 0 Two persons, or a family, - 1 10 0 One person, quarterly, - - 0 10 0 Two, or a family, quarterly, - 10 0 Three shillings per month to non-subscribers. One shilling per week, or paid for each time, at the chalybeate spring. LYMINGTON, Is about eighteen miles from Southampton, the road to which, is through the midst of the New Forest, the most delightful and romantic in England, and about 95 miles from London. It is situated about a mile from the narrow channel which separates the Isle of Wight from the main land, and affords the shortest and safest passage. It is situated on the gentle acclivity of a hill, a position which not only adds to its cleanliness, but to its salubrity. Baths. Lymington has two sets of Baths, one at the bottom of the town, and the other about half a mile from it. These have lately been rendered very commodious, and the proprietors have endeavoured to pay every attention to the comfort of their visitors; and as the baths here admit of being used at all times, without regard to the state of the tide, they are particularly suited to the convenience of invalids. The immense volume of water that passes through the strait, known by the name of the Needles, and the flow of the river being restrained by the flood- gates, during the whole of each tide, bathing is here rendered equally as salutary as at any other place. THE ISLE OF WIGHT Makes a part of Hampshire, and is situated midway be- tween the counties of Dorset and Sussex: and from many circumstances, there is every reason to suppose it was formerly connected with the main land, from which it is now separated by a strait of unequal breadth, being not more than one mile at the western, and nearly seven at the eastern extremity. The face of the country is beautifully picturesque and romantic: woods, rocks, hills, rivers, and vales, every- where meet the eye. The soil and climate are peculiarly favourable to vegetation, and is equally congenial with health. Such, in fact, is the mildness of the air, that mvrtles, that are fond of a soft marine exposure, grow