Jl Hint to the Ladies, on a certain Article of Dress. 87 min-seed with a little pounded ginger, which they swallow with sugar. Agues are cured, viz. those that begin with shivering fits, by taking three large pills made of ginger, black cummin-seed, and long pepper. The cucumber leaf, dried and pounded, acts both as a cathartic and an emetic. SMALL-POX AND VACCINATION. The salutary advantages of vaccination are clearly shewn in the following calculation, on the authority of nearly all the respectable medical men, not merely in the united kingdom, but in the whole civilized world. Natural small-pox, 10,000 cases give 1000 deaths, or one in ten; inoculated small pox, 10,000 cases give 20 deaths, or one in 5000; vaccination, 10,000 cases give ten failures, or one in 1000, and no deaths. Whence it appears, that where there are ten failures of vaccination, there are twenty deaths from small-pox inoculation, not to mention the incalculable numbers destroyed by spreading the contagion. A HINT TO THE LADIES, ON A CERTAIN ARTICLE OF DRESS. The following edict was published some years ago throughout the German empire; which goes to prove that one at least of our fashions originated in Germany. " Whereas the dangerous consequences arising from the use of stays, are universally acknowledged to impair the health, and impede the growth of the fair sex; when, on the contrary, the suppression of that part of their dress cannot but be effectual in strengthening their constitution, and, above all, in rendering them more fruitful in the mar- riage state: we hereby strictly enjoin, that in all orphan houses, nunneries, and other places set apart for the public education of young girls, no stays, of any kind whatever, shall be made use of or encouraged, from henceforth ; and it is hereby further noticed to all masters and mistresses of academies and boarding-schools, that any girls wearing stays should not be received or countenanced in such schools. We hereby also will and command, that it be enjoined to the College of Physicians, that a dissertation, adapted to every one's capacity, be forthwith composed, shewing how materially the growth of children of the female sex, is injured by the use of stays ; for the better information of parents and schoolmasters, who wish to