374 On the Physical Education of Children, fa. to debilitate them, than drinking warm liquors; and these they swallow in immoderate quantities, seasoned with corrugating alkaline salts. Hence, as Pallas justly observes, the feeble and effeminate figures of the Mon- golians and Burats, five or six of whom, with their utmost exertions, cannot do what can be executed by a single Russian; hence the extreme lightness of their bodies, with which, on their little horses, they seem to fly, or skim along the surface of the ground; hence, lastly, the diseased habit transmitted* to their children. Even some of the neighbouring Tartar races are born with features of the Mongolian form, which disappear as they grow up; and this renders it more probable, that some of the causes dependent on the climate, are more or less ingrafted into the frame of the people, and rendered hereditary, by their descent and mode of life. When Russians or Tartars intermarry with the Mongolians, they produce handsome children, of delicate and well propor- tioned shapes, but resembling the Mongolian standard. Here also, in their organization, Nature remains true to herself; a race of Nomades, beneath this sky, on this ridge of the globe, and with such modes of living, must be like so many human vultures. Of the Cashmirians. Embosomed in Alpine heights, like a hidden paradise, lies the kingdom of Cashmire. Its fertile and pleasant hills are surrounded by mountains ascending still higher, till the summits of the last, covered with eternal snow, are lost in the clouds. Here flow pellucid streams and rivulets; the earth is adorned with salubrious herbs and fruits; gardens and islands are clad in refreshing green; flocks and herbs are spread over one universal pasture; while no savage animal or venomous reptile annoys this Eden. These may, as Bernier says, be properly named the mountains of innocence, which flow with milk and honey; and the race of men that inhabits them, is not unworthy of the place. The Cashmirians are allowed to be the most witty and ingenious people of India, equally capable of excelling in poetry and science, in arts and manufactures; the men are finely formed, and the women often models of beauty. Of the Hindoos. How happy might Hindostan have been, had not the hands of men combined to ravage, this garden of Nature,