Mucilaginous Oils. 595 supernatant oil to run off, being in common use there for lamp oil.—3. That made at home by the press, which (is the best, especially some that is prepared from cold blanched seeds, with the eye taken out: some chymists are said to take out the colour from the foreign oils, by certain additions, and sell them for English, or as it is called, cold drawn castor oil. The verosity communi- cated to the oil by the eyes of the seeds, may be got rid of by washing the oil in boiling water, or with weak spirit of vitriol, but it is seldom done in this, country. It is soluble in warm.spirit of wine, and its adulteration may thus be discovered if thought necessary: but as all the fat oils have nearly the same qualities, the taste is suffi- cient for practical purposes: purgative, in doses of half an ounce to one ounce and a half, floated on some dis- tilled water, or some wine; or, if it does not usually stay well on the stomach, on some tincture of senna; or made into an emulsion with yolk of egg, and a little distilled water, with twenty drops of lavender drops, and a spoon- ful of simple syrup ; it may also be used in clysters : is particularly useful where a stimulant would be hurtful, as it operates quickly, without disturbing the system; externally, in swelling pains. Contrary to most medi- cines, on frequent repetition, a less dose is sufficient. RAPE OIL, Is made from rape seed, dries slowly, makes but a goftish soap, fit for ointments, but does not make good plaisters: the mucilage it contains may be got rid of in a great measure, by adding half an ounce of oil of vitriol, to two pints of the oil. GINGELLY OIL. From the seeds of the sesamum orientale; used for food, and in painting. OIL OF SESAMUM. From the seeds of gold of pleasure, myagrum sativum; used for burning in lamps, and in ointments, &c. MUSTARD OIL. From the hulls of black mustard, after the flour has been sifted from them: resembles rape oil, and sold for it. OLEUN SINAPEOS. Obtained from mustard seed, after the common mild oil has been procured; is acrid, and recommended by Dr. Rutty, in rheumatism. OIL OF VERNICIA MONTANA. Yellow, used as a varnish, is extracted from the kernels.