300 Baths, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. It is sometimes employed in preternatural evacuations of the uterus, to give strength to the extremities of the debilitated vessels. These waters are also useful in cases of chlorosis, especially if they be accompanied with sti- mulating remedies, and horse exercise. In nervous diseases, from relaxation or delicacy of habit, such as hysterical disorders, palpitations, terrors, imaginary sensations, irregularity, and depression of spi- rits, or those of the paralytic kind, connected with the state of the brain, such as tremors and palsied limbs, these waters will prove efficacious in a great number of instances. In spasmodic diseases, from preternatural irritability of the nervous system, such as convulsions, St. Vitus's dance, and epilepsy, a course of chalybeate water will often prove beneficial. Hot Baths. For a long time hot baths were a desideratum here; Freeman, Thornton, and Thomson have built some on an excellent principle, and which meet with the encourage- ment they deserve. Perhaps every person should use the tepid baths once or twice, before he begins a course of the waters. The New Baths consist of six, two of them cold, and the others tepid or hot, with a cold shower-bath attached to each. These are plentifully supplied with common spring water, and are fitted with pipes, which communi- cate with the mineral wells in the fields above, for the purpose of malting saline baths, when water can be spared from drinking. These baths are ready for use at any time of the day, from seven in the morning till seven at night, and in every season of the year. Four of them are built of stone, and are large enough to swim in, thereby pre- venting the confinement of the body, which is particularly detrimental to it when immersed in a cold fluid. Three of the baths are without windows, as they arc lighted and ventilated by an opening in the top of the building. Hence the bathers cannot be overlooked, and the internal atmosphere is preserved in so pure a state, that steam never appears, even on the surface of the hot baths, until the temperature of the water exceeds 9G de- grees of Fahrenheit's scale ; but as some persons object to warm bathing, where the external atmosphere is ad- mitted, there are three smaller baths, which are covered over, and have windows at a considerable height.