21 Chinese Physicians. meal about noon, and eat plain meats only. Avoid salted meats: those who eat them often, have pale complexions, a slow pulse, and are full of corrupted humours. Sup betimes, and sparingly. Let your meat be neither too much nor too little done. Sleep not until two hours after eating. Begin your meals with a little tea, and wash your mouth with a cup of it afterwards. I do indeed drink wine, but nevermore than four or five small glasses. The most important advice which I can give, says Du Halde, for maintaining the body in due temperament, is to be very moderate in the use of all the pleasures of sense ; for all excess weakens the spirits. Walk not too long at once. Stand not for hours in one posture; nor lie longer than necessary. In winter, keep not yourself too hot, nor in summer too cold. Immediately after you awake, rub your breast where the heart lies, with the palm of your hand. Avoid a stream of wind as you would an arrow. Coming out of a warm bath, or after hard labour, do not expose your body to cold. If in the spring there should be two or three hot days, do not be in haste to put off your winter clothes. It is unwholesome to fan yourself during perspiration. Wash your mouth with water or tea, lukewarm, before you go to rest, and rub the soles of your feet warm. When you lie down, banish all thought. In this short space we have presented at one view, a " code of health calculated to ensure longevity," adapted to any climate, for every constitution, and worthy of being practised by all who value themselves as men and Chris- tians, desirous of perpetuating by their example the les- sons of morality, as conducive to -a state of mental as well as bodily health, from whence will emanate the great- est portion of human happiness on earth. CHINESE PHYSICIANS. Physicians, in China, never write any prescrip- tions, but commonly give their own medicines; a boy carrying after them a cabinet with five drawers, each divided into more than forty little squares, and all of them furnished with medicines ready prepared. When they have felt the pulse, they make up two compositions; one to be taken on the spot, the other afterwards. Their medicines are only simples; in the uses of which, and in