214 Practical Remarks on the Diseases of Tradesmen, flesh wound, the patient must live upon vegetable diet, as well as endeavour to abate the influence of the whole of the natural powers; and when the patient becomes ema- ciated, and appears to sink under its influence, and the wound shews no disposition to heal, strengthening diet must be taken, and other correspondent active means. When matter, which is the healing medium, does not properly form on the surface of a wound, warmth, by means of mild poultices, must be used to promote it. Treatment of Simple Incised Wounds or Cuts. On a workman receiving a clean cut with any sharp instrument, which has not penetrated very deep, and which is not lacerated or torn in any part, the best way, in such cases, is to lay the edges of the wound close in contact, and to confine them there by means of sticking- plaster ; when, in the course of a day or two, they will be glued together—consequently a cure performed with- out any other application; unless the wound suppurates, when it will be necessary to treat it as in the preceding case. Spirits, tinctures, balsams, and the like, although sometimes used to stop blood, where mechanical means do not admit of being used, are highly improper to recent wounds; they are sure to irritate the part they are applied to, and retard the cure. The loss of blood is always greater from an incised, than from a lacerated wound. Bruises. This description of wound is mostly occasioned by obtuse or blunted heavy substances falling upon, or otherwise injuring the parts of the body that come in contact with it, without laying open any part; and they are generally productive of worse consequences than wounds of the preceding kind. The danger from bruises is not immediately apparent, by which means they are not unfrequently neglected. Treatment of Bruises. When the bruise is of a slight nature, it may be suffi- cient to bathe the part with warm vinegar, to which some spirits, rum or brandy, or warm gin itself, may be added, or with opodeldoc, keeping cloths wetted constantly applied to it. This method is preferable to using spirits alone, which, for the most part, are applied, though in- judiciously, in similar cases. I