Housekeepitu/ and fl/ishandry. $2% confess our fears that the flavour of venison, especially of its fat, is inimitable, but believe you can procure prime eight-tooth wether mutton, keep it the proper time, and send it to table with the accompaniments usually given to venison. A rational epicure will eat it with as much satisfaction as he would " feed on the King's fallow deer." VEAL. Veal requires particular care to roast it a nice brown. Let the fire be the same as for beef; a sound large fire for a large joint, and a brisker for a smaller; put it at some distance from the fire to soak thoroughly, and then draw it near to finish it brown. When first laid down it is to be basted; baste it again occasionally. When the veal is on the dish pour over it half a pint of melted butter : it you have a little brown gravy by you, add that to the butter. With those joints which are not stuffed, send up forcemeat in balls, or rolled into sausages, as garnish to the dish, or fried pork sausages: bacon and greens, are also always expected with veal. Fillet of Veal—of from twelve or sixteen pounds, will require from four to five hours at a good fire; make some stuffing or forcemeat, and put it under the, flap, that there may be some left to eat cold, or to season a hash : brown it, and pour good melted butter over it. Garnish with thin slices of lemon, and cakes or balls of stuffing, or duck stuffing, or fried pork sausages, curry sauce, bacon and greens, &c. A Loin—is the best part of the calf, and will take about three hours roasting. Paper the kidney fat, and the back: some cooks send it up on a toast, which is eaten with the kidney and the fat of this part, which is more delicate than any marrow, &c. If there is more of it than you think will be eaten with the veal, before you roast it cut it out, it will make an excellent suet pudding: take care to have your fire long enough to brown the ends. A Shoulder—horn three hours to three hours and a half; stuff it with the forcemeat ordered for the fillet of veal, in the underside. Neck, best End—will take two hours. The scrag part is best made into a pie or broth. Breast—from an hour and a half to two hours. Let the caul remain till it is almost done, then take it off, to brown it; baste, flour, and froth it. ss2