207 The Way to Wealth. thy necessaries." And again, " At a great penny-worth pause awhile." He means, perhaps, that the cheapness js apparent only, and not real;. or the bargain, by strait- ening thee in thy business, may do thee more harm than good. For in another place he says, " Many have been ruined by buying good pennyworths." Again, "It is foolish to lay out money in a purchase of repentance and yet this folly is practised every day at auctions, for want of minding the Almanack. Many a one, for the sake of finery on the back, have gone with a hungry belly, and hall' starved their families. " Silks and satins, scarlets and velvets, put out the kitchen fire," as Poor Richard says. These are not the necessaries of life; they can scarcely be called the conveniences; and yet, only be- cause they look pretty, how many want to have them! By these and other extravagances, the genteel are re- duced to poverty, and forced to borrow of those whom they formerly despised, but who, through industry and frugality, have maintained their standing; in which case it appears plainly, that "A ploughman on his legs is higher than a gentleman on his knees," as Poor Richard says. Perhaps they had a small estate left them, which they knew not the getting of; they think " It is day, and will never be night;" that a little to be spent out of so much is not worth minding; but " Always taking out of the meal-tub, and never putting in, soon comes to the bottom," as Poor Richard £ays; and then, " When the well is dry, they know the worth of water." But this they might have known before, if they had taken his advice: "If you would know the value of money, go and try to borrow some; for he that goes a borrowing, goes a sorrowing," as Poor Richard says; and indeed so does he that lends to such people, when he goes to get it in again. Poor Dick farther advises and says, ' " Fond pride of dress is sure a very curse; Ere fancy you consult, consult your purse." ' And again, " Pride is as loud a beggar as want, and a great deal more saucy." When you have bought one fine thing, you must buy ten more, that your appearance may be all of a piece ; but Poor Dick says, " It is easier to suppress the first desire, than to satisfy all that follow it:" and it is as truly folly for the poor to ape the rich, as for the frog to swell in order to equal the ox. * " Vessels large may venture more, But little boats should keep near shore."