510 THE MIRACULOUS CURE OF TOBIT. Sir Everard Home, in his Cronian Lecture, 1797, observes, that it is an extremely curious circumstance, and probably the most so that can be met with in the his- tory of medicine, that a local application should have been discovered to be of service, in a particular disease, 2513 years ago; that the same application, or those of a similar kind, should have been in very general use ever since; and, in all that time, no rational principle, on which such medicines produced their beneficial effects, Should have been ascertained. This appears from the fol- lowing account, to have been the case with respect to stimulating applications to the cornea*, in a diseased state, and can only be accounted for by a want of knowledge of the structure of the parts, which is an argument of uncom- mon weight in favour of the study of anatomy. In the Apocrypha we find, in the book of Tobit, a very circumstantial account of an opacity of the cornea, successfully treated by stimulating applications. It is there treated as a miracle, but we have the authority of Jerome, a father of the church, who wrote in the fourth century, to say, the church reads the books of Tobit, &c. for examples of life and instruction of manners we shall therefore, consider the account which is given in extracts from the book of Tobit in that view: Tob. chap. vi. ver. 2. <c When Tobias went down to wash himself in the river Tigris, a fish leaped out of the river, and would have devoured him. The angel of the Lord told him to take out the gall, and put it up in safety." —-Ver. 6. " Tobias asked the angel what was the use of the gall?"—Ver. 8. " As for the gall, said the angel, it is good to anoint a man who hath whiteness in his eyes, and he shall be healed."—Chap. xi. ver. 11. " Tobias took hold of his father, and strake off the gall in his father's eyes, saying, be of good hope, my father."—Ver. 12. " And when his eyes began to smart he rubbed them."—Ver. 13, " And the whiteness peeled away from the cornors of his eyes, and when he saw his son he fell upon his neck." Dr. Russell, in his Travels in the East, gives the fol- lowing account of the manner in which the Arabians treat inflammations and opacities of the cornea: , r— 1 1 * The name of one of the membranes (the sclerotic) of the eye, is so called, from its horny consistence.—See " New London Surgical ami Medical Dictiotian/."