I 364 LECTURES ON THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION OF CHILDREN DURING THE EARLY PART OF THEIR LIVES. ADDRESSED TO MOTHERS, &c. BY A. F. WILLICH, M. D. LECT. I. An Historical Sketch of the Manners and Customs prevailing among different Nations ; Hints and Remarks on their Phy- sical Character, as ivell as occasional Observations on their Moral State: together with an Enquiry into the Truth of the supposed degeneracy of the present Age, when compared with the condition of our Ancestors. Among the various pursuits in which the reasoning powers of the human mind are engaged, that of investi- gating the gradual evolution of the physical and intellec- tual faculties of man is unquestionably one of the most dignified, perhaps the most important. Whether we consider man as a moral or as a physical agent, we shall find him, in every country, and in every climate, endowed with such qualities and talents, as elevate him, in a general sense, far above all the lower creatures: it is, however, a remarkable circumstance, that the developement of his mental and physical nature requires a much greater number of years, together with the more complicated aid of art, than is necessary for the formation of the most perfect and long-lived animals. There are, indeed, many among the inferior creatures, which individually excel man in the exercise of the senses, and which apparently attain to a greater age; but I venture to assert, that if our external faculties be appreciated as an aggregate of sentient powers, we not only surpass every animal hitherto discovered, but we possess the means of multiplying them by reciprocal im- provements, in a degree which it is impossible to com- pute. In these respects, we have every reason to contem- plate-with satisfaction the beneficent ordinations of Pro- vidence, which has placed man in so exalted and envia- ble a situation. But, when we take a more enlarged view of the condition of our infantile life, and compare our physical situation immediately, or soon after birth, with that of the lower animals, a more gloomy picture presents itself to the mind; for it cannot be denied, that an infant is in a more helpless and more wretched state than any other living creature. Hence I am induced to