SRaeful ifMemoranna —No. 11 . IMPORTANT PRECAUTIONS FOR HOT WEATHER. See that your dogs have constant and easy access to plenty of water; and, if convenient, get them into the fields to bathe, and eat grass. Keep your singing birds in the shade, as they are liable to become blind, as well as otherwise considerably influenced by the burning heat of the sim. If you hang them up in the open air, the cage should be covered with a green sod, chickweed, apiece of thick cloth or carpeting, and take care they have enough of water. In short, all animals ought to have a plentiful and frequent supply of the same fluid during sultry weather. Drinking cold fluids, in a state of excessive heat, is extremely dangerous. The body should invariably be suffered to cool before cold draughts of beer or water be taken, particularly where the transition is from an active to a passive state. At no season of the year ought people to be more cautious against sitting in currents of air or draughts, then during the summer heats. Arid nothing can be more dangerous than to throw oft* our clothes suddenly, during a high state of perspiration. Method of Beautifying and Preserving the Colour of all sorts of Wood, by means of a Stain, Varnish, and Pow- der; which Powder may likewise be used in Polishing and Sharpening Steel-edged Instruments*. Take pumice stone, and burnt alum, of each equal parts, finely powdered, true lapis calaminaris, (Tutty powder) tile and green vitriol calcined to redness, of each half a pint, finely powdered, mix them into a pow- der, and rub the wood with it, with a woollen cloth, until it received a good polish. N. B. They must be finely levigated for edged tools. Then use the following stain: Take six pounds of stick lac, boil it in three gallons of water till the colour is extracted, and strain off the liquor ; then add to it half a pound of madder root, and boil it until reduced to three quarts : take half a pound of cochineal, half a pound of kermes berries, and four ounces of clean scarlet rags, digest them in a glass vessel with one gallon of spirit of wine, and two ounces of pearl-ash dissolved in half a * For this invention, a patent was granted March 30, 1778, to Mr. Hum- phry Jackson, of Groat Tower-hill.