Observations on (fie. Baths of the Ancients. with the rest of the people. Alexander Severus was the first who allowed the public baths to be opened in the night-time during the heats of summer. Greek Baths. The Greek baths were usually annexed to palestra or gymnasia, of which they were considered as a part. These baths consisted of seven different apartments, usually separated from each other, and intermixed with other buildings, belonging to the other sorts of exercises. These were, 1st, The cold bath, frigida lavatio; 2dly, The elceothesium, or room where they were anointed with oil; 3dly, The frigidarium, or cooling room; 4thly, The propnigeum, or entrance of the hypocaustum, or stove; 5thly, The vaulted room for sweating in, or vapour bath, called concamerata sudatio, or tepidarium; 6thly, The laconicum, or dry stove; 7thly, The hot bath, called callida lavatio. As for the baths separate from the palestra}, they ap- pear to have been usually double, one for men, the other for women; but so near, that the same furnace heated both. The middle part was possessed by a large basin that received water by several pipes, and was surrounded by a balustrade, behind which there was an area for the reception of those who waited to use the bath. They were vaulted over, and only received light from the top. Description of the Roman Baths. In the Roman baths, the first part that appeared was a large basin, called xoXv^^ga in Greek, and natatio, or piscina, in Latin. In the middle was the hypocaustum, which had a row of four apartments on each side, called balnearia: these were the stove, the bath, cold bath, and tepidarium. The two stoves, called laconicum and tepi- darium, were circular, and joined together. Their floor was hollow, and suspended, in order to receive the heat of a large furnace, which was communicated to the stoves through the vacuities of their floor. This furnace also heated another room, called vasarium, in which were three large brazen vessels, called milliaria, respectively containing hot, warm, and cold water; which were so disposed, that the water might be made to pass by sy- phons and pipes out of one or other of them into the bath, in order to ad just its temperature. The description is given by Vitruvius. At three in the afternoon, which is what Pliny calls hora octava et nona, the Romans all \ i 2