Batlis, Wells, Waters, and Mineral Springs. 349 The walk immediately above the well is equally shaded by a plantation of limes for more than 300 feet: which conducts to the second, or Orchard-well, beyond which a serpentine path commences, upwards of 503 feet long, whose sides are bordered with rising elms that will soon furnish an agreeable umbrage with their boughs. At the termination of the whole is a picturesque villa, called the Grove Cottage, which gives a pleasing finish to the scene. Montpelier Spa. . Nearly opposite the Orchard-well are Mr. Thompson's much-admired pleasure-grounds, where an elegant build- ing, and a spacious pump-room with a viranda in front, has been erected for the use of subscribers. Surrounding this charming spot, are the beautiful, extensive, and ro- mantic rides and walks recently completed at a very con- siderable expence by the above gentleman. Terms of Drinking at the Spa, and of Walking and Riding in the Pleasure-grounds. Drinking the "1 Six weeks, 3*. 6d. each person, or one guinea the family j Waters J exclusive of a gratuity to the pumper. Walking 3*. 6d. each person. Riding - - - ' 7s. Od. each horse. Driving - - - - 10*. 6d. each carriage. In the Pump-room a book is always open for subscrip- tions, to keep the walks in proper repair, and for the use of that room; in which every person who visits the place is expected to enter his name. The Spa, its Qualities and Virtues. This valuable spring rises at one-third of a mile south of the church, in a mixed loamy and sandy soil; which prevails for several miles round, and produces abundant crops of every kind of vegetation, while it seems to render the air elastic and pure. This water owes its discovery to a slow spring being observed to ooze from a strong thick blueish clay or mould, under the sandy surface of the soil; which, after spreading itself for a few yards, again disappeared, leaving much of its salt behind. To feed on these salts, flocks of pigeons being daily observed to resort, Mr. Mason, who was then proprietor of the spot, was induced to examine it with more attention; and soon remarked, that when other springs were fast bound by the frost, this continued in a fluid state.