Cautions against sitting near Doors or Windows, fyc. 19 7. Art thou poor? be industry thy guard, lest thou should want the bread of life ; and, in wanting that, the path of disgrace is not remote, and that path will lead thee, peradventure, to the pits of misery and destruction: condescend not to be the object either of pity or charity, whilst thou hast limbs to toil, imagination to suggest, or health to perform. Liberty is independence, and slavery is a state of pecuniary obligation. Get honestly and give cautiously. Whoso putteth in practice these rules, shall certainly live all the days of his life. CAUTIONS AGAINST SITTING NEAR DOORS OR WINDOWS, IN HEATED ROOMS, &c. During the winter season, in particular, when larger fires are kept up, and more candles burnt, than at any other time of the year, people, young or old, ought not to expose themselves to draughts or crevice winds, by sitting too near a window or door; for the consumption of air, occasioned by the heat of the fire and candles, will always be very considerable; which, necessarily, must be replaced by cold air through the windows or door, or through some other opening into the room; because no air can come down the chimney, the wrarm stream always arising from the fire in that direction, pre- venting it. Let those therefore who sit near those aper- tures, take particular care, if they be small and the heat great, as there it will rush in with greater impetuosity, and the pores/will be more liable to receive its noxious quality. As example is always preferable to precept, we will endeavour to illustrate the preceding observations with a familiar example: hold a candle at the key-hole of a door, or to a crevice in a room where there is a good fire and many candles, and you will soon detect the constant current of air that enters there. Besides, it is a rational observation, that our heels are often ready to freeze, while we sit before a fire in winter, in consequence of the continual influx of cold air by the openings from without, and which draws towards the fire, to make good the waste of the air that goes up the chimney. Those who frequent public assemblies, should be care- ful to avoid this danger, to which they aTe singularly liable, from the sudden transitions from heat to cold. A man in health may leap into a cold bath, even though he be in a profuse perspiration, or out of his bed in frosty r> 2