474 Reduction of Corpulence, and Improvement of Health. Frequently at night I resumed my exercise, walking, and sometimes running, generally performing about five miles an hour, till I again produced perspiration; every other opportunity I could resort to of bodily exercise, V also availed myself of. In respect to diet, I had accustomed myself to suppers, and drinking excellent table beer in large quantities, and for probably ten years had indulged myself with brandy and water after supper; this practice I entirely discontinued, substituting toast and water with my dinner, and tea and a good allowance of toast for supper, always avoiding copious draughts. J left off drinking malt liquor as a habit, and, indeed, very seldom drank it at all. I took somewhat less meat at dinner, avoiding pies and puddings as much as pos- sible, but always took three or four glasses of Port after dinner. During the time I was under this training, I took the opinion of an eminent physician upon the subject, who entirely approved of my plan, and recommended the occasional use of aperient medicine, but which I seldom resorted to. The result of all this, was a reduction of my weight of upwards of three stone, or about forty-five pounds, in about six or seven months. I found my activity very much in-r creased, and my wind excellent, but I think, my strength not quite so great, though I did not experience any mar terial reduction of it: my health was perfect throughout. I then relaxed my system a little, and have, up to the present time, being a period of ten years, avoided the necessity of bleeding, and have enjoyed an almost un- interrupted continuance of good health, although my weight has gradually increased; sometimes, however, fluctuating between seven or eight pounds and a stone, according to my means of exercise, always increasing in winter, and losing in summer; and at this moment (January 29,1821), I am about a stone more than I ought to be, having ascertained, that my best bodily strength is at sixteen stone and a half. When the object is to reduce weight, rest and moderate food will always sufficiently restore the exhaustion aris- ing from exercise; if an additional quantity of food, and nourishing liquors, be resorted to, the body will, in ge- neral, be restored to the weight it was before the exer- cise.