189 Preparation of Food, fyc. in the water, forming soup or broth; or, if the direct con- tact of the water be prevented, they are dissolved in the juices of the meat, and separate in the form of gravy. Loss sustained in the Cooking of Animal Substances, #c. $c. Whether the heat be directly or indirectly applied, there must be a considerable loss in the cooking of ani- mal substances in public institutions, where the allow- ance of meat is generally weighed out in its raw state, and includes bones, and is served out cooked, and some- times without bone, and it is a matter of importance to ascertain, as near as possible, their relative proportions. With regard to this circumstance, much no doubt de- pends on the piece of meat to be cooked, the degree of cookery, and the attention bestowed upon it, &c. We have been informed by persons who salt rounds of beef to sell by retail, after they are boiled, that they are able to get nineteen pounds of cold boiled meat from twenty-five pounds of raw; but the meat, it must be con- fessed, is always underdone. Messrs. Donkin and Gamble boiled in steam 50 pounds of captain's salt meat; the meat when cold, without the bones, which amounted to 5 pounds 6 ounces, weighed only 35 pounds. In another experiment, 113 pounds of prime mess beef gave 9 pounds 10 ounces of bones, and 47 pounds 8 ounces meat; and in a third, 213 pounds of mess beef gave 13 pounds 8 ounces of bones, and 103 pounds 10 ounces of meat; or, taken in the aggregate, 372 pounds of salt beef, including the bones, furnish, when boiled, 186 pounds 6 ounces, without bone, being about 50 per cent.; or, disregarding the bone altogether, salt meat loses, by boiling, about 42.2 per cent. We are indebted to Professor Wallace, of the Univer- sity of Edinburgh, for the detail of a very accurate and extensive experiment in a public establishment, the re- sults of which were, that in pieces of 10 lbs. weight, each 100 lbs. of beef lost, upon an average, by boiling, 26.4; baking, 30.2 5 and roasting, the shoulder, 31.1; the neck, 32.4; the loin, 35.9. Hence, generally speaking, mutton, by boiling, loses about one-fifth of its original weight, and beef about one-fourth: again, mutton and beef lose, by roasting, about one-third of their original weight. In roasting, the loss arises from the melting out of the fat, and the evaporating of the water, but the nutritious matter remains condensed in the cooked solid; but in