Tonics, or Strengthening Remedies. 495 is ultimately attended with a chronic inflammation of the lungs.—Such are the effects of ignorance and delusion. 5. Tonics, or Strengthening Remedies, are given with an intention to support the sinking vital power, or to brace the whole system. In the opinion of those who are unacquainted with the laws of the animal economy, and the nature of diseases, these medicines appear to be of inestimable value; yet their virtues and effects are extremely precarious. There is indeed a great difference between direct and indirect debility, or in other words, between true and apparent weakness; a distinction which is not always manifest, even to the most experienced physician. For extreme reduction of strength, when the expiring patient seems to have arrived at the verge of the grave, maybe the consequence of a morbid cause, but not of the disease itself.—How often does it happen, that a single emetic, or bleeding, at once raises the pulse, relieves the stricture of the breast, enlivens the faint, languid eyes, and diffuses new vigour over the supposed victim of death. From any such remedies, the non-professional spectator would predict, or at least apprehend, certain dissolution. Farther, the cause of general debility is frequently found in the accumulation of blood, in obstructions and pituitous stagnations of the abdomen. In these instances, it would be extremely hazardous to stimulate the suc- cumbing patient with wine, strong broths, or any animal food; which is a common practice. JSTay, it is a notorious fact, that heating and exciting substances are often taken from empirics of every description, while cooling and moderating remedies ought to have been prescribed. It is therefore an obnoxious error, to hasten the recovery of a patient by bracing means; and to believe that every thing depends on the return of his appetite for eating. Tender mothers likewise labour under a great mistake, when they imagine that there can be no danger in the disease, as long as the child takes its food. Conformably to this erroneous notion, the infant is loaded with aliment, though its stomach be relaxed and vitiated; so that additional food cannot fail to increase the cause of weak- ness, and, consequently, also the disease. Nay, over- wise nurses go a step farther, and literally stuff the child every time it begins to cry, without attempting to dis- tinguish whether the cries arise from hunger or pain. I 3 R