J-loi(s<>/;(>('i»utj and Husbandry. ing. In some kinds of goods, blotting paper, bran, or raw starch, may be used with advantage. Soap or alkali, it is well known, will make the grease soluble in water ; but the chemical action of these, parti- cularly of the latter, and the danger of applying water to some kinds of goods, renders their use, in general, too hazardous. Alcohol, or spirits of wine, mixed with essential oil of lemons, will remove grease from silk, though by itself it has no action on it; the place should be wetted with it, and then rubbed with a sponge or cloth. Spirits of tur- pentine may be tried, instead of essence of lemons, on account of its cheapness. As soap is soluble in alcohol by a gentle heat, it might be used with it beneficially, for taking out spots from some stuffs which would be injured by water. Sugar, also, may be tried for cleaning goods so injured in some cases, as it makes oil soluble in water. Process for Purifying Fish Oil. Take one gallon of crude stinking oil, and put to it a pint of water poured off from two ounces of lime, slacked in the air; stir the mixture up several times for the first twenty-four hours ; then let it stand a day, and the lime- water will sink below the oil, which must be carefully separated from it. This is one of the methods by which our common oils can be so clarified as to become like pure water. Mode of Preserving Milk for any length of time. KirchofF, a German chemist, well known for his curi- ous discovery of converting starch into sugar, reduces milk to a dry mass by a gentle evaporation. This pow- der, when mixed with the requisite proportion of water, is brought back nearly to its original state. Smoking Chimnies. To prevent chimnies smoking, the following hints are recommended to be attended to in erecting them: The height of the mantel must not exceed one-third the height of the room ; the jambs and breast to be carried perfectly upright, at least to the ceiling, then the turn to be as easy and gradual as possible; let the jambs from the hearth to the mantel describe a curve, and the lower part of the mantel to be a broad horizontal plane; the distance from the inside of the breast to the back on each side of the