266 Advantage of Artificial over Natural Warm Baths. and if the use of artificial mineral waters may not prove so serviceable as that of the natural springs, it is to be ascribed to the local circumstances of the latter, and not to any real difference between them; for if the waters themselves are capable of producing any effect on the constitution, it must be absurd to say, that their perfect imitation should be less efficacious; and if the analysis that has been made of them be correct in the first place, and the imitation in the second, there can be no doubt but the artificial will prove of the same intrinsic value as the natural. Chemistry has happily placed this within our reach; and as all mineral waters can be imitated with a scrupulous exactness at home, where we have the power of creating any temperature, the heat may be ac- commodated to the state of the patient, and by varying the degree from the scale of the natural hot springs at Barege, Aix-la-Chapelle, and Bourbon les Bains, the benefits arising from the use of those springs may be obtained ; and that this can be done at home, cannot be denied. If, therefore, the valetudinarians who resort annually in crowds to the watering-places on the Conti- nent, could be induced to seek health and amusement in their native country, much useless emigration might be spared, and the immense wealth that is lavished abroad, being circulated at home, would contribute in no mean degree to the industry and civilization of the lower classes of people in this country. Advantage of the Artificial over the Natural Medicated Warm Baths. The temperature of the natural medicated warm baths remains always the same, and the patient is ordered from one spring to another, merely on account of temperature', frequently from Bath to Buxton, and from thence to Matlock. The advantages then of the artificial medi- cated baths over the natural springs are obvious: the temperature may be regulated, and the strength of the bath may be increased or diminished, according to the will of the physician, or the state of the patient, through the whole treatment of disease, and the expence and trouble of going to the different sources may be thus avoided*. * For the mode of preparing several artificial mineral waters, see the *' Natural and Medical Dieteticon," a work principally intended for con- valescents, valetudinarians, and hypochondriacs; and admirably adapted as a guide to the use of mineral springs generally, and to the different watering- places, p. p. 360. Published by Sherwood and Co. Patcrnoater-row.