Dr. Buchan on the Means of procuring Sleep. 61 Dr. Franklins Rules for Sleeping well, and having pleasant Dreams. Dr. Franklin, who appears scarcely to have been at a loss for any thing, recommends, in order to procure healthy sleep and pleasant dreams, moderate eating; thinner and more porous bed-clothes, which will suffer the perspirable matter to pass more easily through them; and, when a person is awakened by any accident, and cannot easily sleep again, to get out of bed, beat up and turn the pillow, shake the bed-clothes well, with at least twenty shakes, then to throw the bed open, and leave it to cool. In the mean time walk about the chamber un- dressed, till the skin has had time to discharge its load, which it will do sooner, as the air may be drier and cooler. When you begin to feel the cold air unpleasant, then return to your bed, and you will soon fall asleep, and your sleep will be sound and pleasant. If you are too indolent to get out of bed, you may, instead of this plan, lift up your bed-clothes with one arm and leg, so as to draw in a good deal of fresh air, and by letting them fall, force it out again. This, repeated twenty times, will so clear them of the perspirable matter they have im- bibed, as to permit your sleeping for some time after- wards. This method, however, is by no means equal to the former. Dr. Buchan on the Means of procuring Sleep—Directions to remedy Cold Feet in Bed, fyc. Gently titillating the soles of the feet, will frequently procure sleep. Among the natives of India, I have been informed it is customary for every person who can go to the expence, to employ a servant, gently to tickle the soles of the feet, till sleep takes place. The experiment has frequently been recommended in this country, and with advantage in nervous irritability. Lord Bacon, in his Natural History, says, " It is received and confirmed by daily experience, that the soles of the feet have great affinity with the head; application of hot powders to the feet, attenuate first, and afterwards dry the rheum; like- wise pigeons bleeding, applied to the soles of the feet, ease the head; and soporiferous medicines applied to them, provoke sleep."—No person can sleep with cold feet. This may be obviated by applying bottles filled with hot water to the feet. Rubbing the feet with a hard