313 Economy of the Toad. jackson's bathing spirits. Take Soft soap, - - - 2 pounds. Camphor, - - - -12 ounces. Oil of rosemary, ♦ - jofeach, 1* ounce. Uil of marjoram, - J Rectified spirit, 2 gallons. *** This and Freeman's bathing spirit are both similar to opodeldoc; Jackson's only differing from Freeman's in the addition of some essential oils. ECONOMY OF THE TOAD (Rana Bufo). The common food of the toad is small worms, and insects of every description; but its favourite food con- sists of Apis meltijica, A. conica, A. terrestris, and Vespa vulgaris. When a toad strikes any of these insects, how- ever, deglutition does not immediately take place, as in other cases, but the mandibles remain closely compress- ed for a few seconds, in which time the bee or wasp is killed, and all danger of being stung avoided. The man- dibles are provided with two protuberances which appear to be destined for this office. Although capable of sus- taining long abstinence, the toad is a voracious feeder, when opportunity offers. To a middle-sized one, the writer has given nine wasps, one immediately after ano- ther ; the tenth it refused, but in the afternoon of the same day it took eight more. To see the toad display its full energy of character, it is necessary to discover it in its place of retirement for the day, and, if possible, un- perceived, to drop an insect within its sight: it immedi- ately arouses from its apparent torpor, its beautiful eyes sparkle, it moves with alacrity to its prey, and assumes a degree of animation incompatible with its general slug- gish appearance. When arrived at a proper distance, it makes a full stop, and, in the attitude of a pointer, motionless eyes its destined victim for a few seconds, when it darts out its tongue upon it, and lodges it in its throat with a velocity which the eye can scarcely follow. It sometimes happens to make an ineffectual stroke, and stuns the insect without gorging it, but never makes a second stroke until the insect resumes motion. It uni- formly refuses to feed on dead insects, however recent. For several years a toad took up its abode, during the summer season, under an inverted garden-pot, which had a part of its rim broken out, in the writer's garden, it r 2