41)2 Barbadoes Aloes. French measure) is sold for eight carlini—(three shillings. Hut if the minister should form a permanent establishment, 1 am persuaded that it would not cost the king more th an half that price, and that the manufacturers would still be gainers, since the idlest workmen might easily make two rotoli a day, while the more industrious would make three, and even three and a half in the longest days. .But I think it would be necessary to forbid the use of the bayonet in the operation of scraping; for the styptic quality of the juice not only eats into that weapon in the course of time, but the ferruginous particles of it blacken the thread, or at least form blueish spots, extremely diffi- cult to eradicate. It would be more advisable to employ scrapers of wood, stone, or any hard body, such as glass, or any other vitrified substance except metal, and espe- cially iron and steel. SOCOTRINE ALOES. Medicinal Properties.—Cathartic, stomachic, emmena- gogue, anthelmintic. In cachectic and chlorotic cases, hypochondriasis, habitual costiveness, the consequence of a sedentary life; torpor of the intestinal canal, &c. Dose.—Grs. v. to xv. as a purge; when given as an emmenagogue or gentle laxative, Grs. ij. to v. twice or three times a day. *#* The long continued use of aloes is apt to bring on hemorrhoids; it is scarcely necessary therefore to remark, that it is an improper cathartic in hemorrhoidal and pul- monic affections, pregnancy, &c. BARBADOES ALOES. This is given as a cathartic in similar doses to the former; it is not however often employed, unless by far- riers. In smell and taste, it is more disagreeable and nauseous than the socotrine, and possesses infinitely less aromatic flavour. As the socotrine aloes contain more extractive matter, in which the purgative quality resides, and less resin than the Barbadoes aloes, the former is preferable when a stimulus is required; for instance, in promoting or ex- citing the menstrual discharge; whilst the latter is better calculated for a common cathartic.