Preparation of Food, fyd 188 necessary, and the bars of a good roasting grate shouk* impede as little as possible the radiation of its heat. Another very direct mode of applying heat; is by plac- ing the substance over the fire, by suspending it in the stream of heated air ascending from it, or laying it directly on the burning fuel, or on bars, or on a plate of iron, or other substance capable of supporting the heat. Broil- ing is the result of this mode of applying heat. Heat is also often employed through the intervention of fluids, chiefly of water or steam, as in boiling or stew- ing, or of some oily substance, as in frying. The pecu- liarity of baking consists in the substance being heated in a confined space, which does not permit the escape of the fumes arising from it. To understand well the theory of cookery, the action of heat upon the various constituents of alimentary sub- stances must be attended to, as applied directly or indi- rectly, through the medium of some fluid. In the former way, as exemplified in the processes of roasting and broiling, the chief constituents of animal substances un- dergo the following changes—the fibrine is corrugated, the albumen coagulated, the gelatine and osmazome ren- dered more soluble in water, the fat liquefied, and the water evaporated. If the heat exceed a certain degree, the surface be- comes first brown, and then scorched. In consequence of these changes, the muscular fibre becomes opaque, shorter, firmer, and drier; the tendons less opaque, softer, and gluey; the fat is neither melted out, nor ren- dered semi-transparent. Animal fluids become more transparent; the albumen is coagulated, separated, and they dissolve gelatine and osmazome. Lastly, and what is the most important change, and the immediate object of all cookery, the meat loses the vapid nauseous taste and smell peculiar to its raw state, and it becomes sa- voury and grateful. Heat applied through the intervention of boiling oil or melted fat, as in frying, produces nearly the same changes, as the heat is sufficient to evaporate the water, and to induce a degree of scorching. But when water is the medium through which heat is applied, as in boiling, stewing and baking, the effects are somewhat different, as the heat never exceeds 212°, which is not sufficient to commence the process of browning or decomposition, and the soluble constituents are removed by being dissolved