298 HISTORY OF DYSPEPSY, OR INDIGESTION, &c. This ailment is met with in every country, in every class of society, in every season of the year. In its restricted signification, Dyspepsy is limited to derange- ment in the functions of the stomach, with any other accompanying disease. The inconveniences of this limi- tation are sufficiently obvious; for it may be extended to those cases of indigestion which are attended with well-marked general fever, local inflammation of the stomach, or obvious cognisable disease of a remote organ. It may be further reduced to primary and secondary; and The Symptoms common to both, are described as follows: e.g. they are extremely diversi- fied ; and may be divided into such as are referable to the stomach* itself, or to its sympathies with other parts of the body. Among the first may be enumerated loss of appetite, nausea, pain in the epigastrium or hypochon- driaf, heartburn, a sense of fulness, distention or weight in the stomach; a feeling as if a ball were lodged in the gullet; acid or fetid eructations; pyrosis (water-brash) or the vomiting of a clear liquor, often in vast quantity; and lastly, a sensation of sinking or fluttering at the pit of the stomach. To the second head of dyspeptic symptoms, among many others, may be added, costiveness, or an irregular state of the bowels, with a morbid appearance of the evacuations; pain of the back, and turbid urine; a dis- agreeable taste in the mouth, especially on first waking; tooth-ache, palpitation, pulsation in the epigastrium; irregularity of the pulse; a short dry cough, and occa- sional difficulty of breathing; giddiness and head-ache, sometimes referred to the fore, but more commonly to the back part of the head; languor, lassitude, and great depression of spirits, with fear of death, or of impending evil. * The region, or part immediately over the stomach. •f- The hypochondria, or hypochondriac regions, are those spaces in the abdo- men that are under the cartilages of the false ribs, on each side of the epigas- trium.