424 Of Green Vegetable Manures. usually recommended by writers on the subject.—The beds which I made as above described, were spawned on the 24th of August last; they came into bearing on the 21st of the following month, and would have continued bearing up to the present time without ceasing, and for several weeks longer, if an unfortunate accident had not occurred on the night of the 28th of last month (December), by a fracture in the ceiling of the room, which admitted the frost.—Notwithstanding this accident, however, I pro- pose, after giving the bed a few weeks rest, to renew the linings; and I have the most sanguine hopes that my labour will be successful; for, upon a close examination, I find that the whole mass of dung and mould is completely full of spawn.—The place in which the beds are placed is a dark room, about ten feet square, exposed to the north, and with an earth floor. They are each about eight feet six inches long, and measure seven feet over their surfaces from the floor to the wall. Of the produce of th ose beds, my master and many gentlemen in the neighbourhood, as well as their gardeners, can bear ample testimony. The appearance of the mushrooms was singularly beautiful. In their growth they formed an apparently powdery substance, resembling the Aphis Lanigera in its young state, and this progressively altered till it became more crustaceous and solid, ultimately forming large clusters of from one hundred to two hundred mushrooms.—Trans-. Horti. Soc. Of Green Vegetable Manures. By Mr. Young. This system of manuring has many advocates, and there have been instances of its being attended with great suc- cess. It consists in ploughing in a full crop of some suc- culent vegetable, such as clover, buck-wheat, or tares. To make them turn in well, two circumstances are neces- sary ; they must have a barley-roller run over them, and a trench-plough must follow, going the same way as the roller did. A common plough will do it very incompletely; for if they are not entirely buried, if the points stick out between the furrows, they will not die, and consequently not ferment; but Mr. Ducket's trench-plough, or the small skim-share fixed to any common plough, buries completely. This work should always be done in summer, or very early in the autumn, while the sun has power to forward the fermentation; for in winter little or no use would result from the practice. The benefit will depend on circum- stances 3 but chiefly, I should apprehend, on the disposi-